You asked me to go on writing, if I were in trouble, just as I used to write when you were
on earth. I used to "confess," and you used to advise. Also you used to scold. How you used
to scold! I am going to do now what you asked, in that message.

I shall never forget how you packed me off to school at Brighton, and Brian to Westward Ho!
the year father died and left us to you--the most troublesome legacy a poor bachelor parson
ever had! I'd made up my mind to hate England. Brian couldn't hate anything or anybody: dreamers
don't know how to hate: and I wanted to hate you for sending us there. I wanted to be hated
and misunderstood. I disguised myself as a Leprechaun and sulked; but it didn't work where
you were concerned. You understood me as no one else ever could--or will, I believe. You taught
me something about life, and to see that people are much the same all over the world, if you
"take them by the heart."

You took me by the heart, and you held me by it, from the time I was twelve till the time when
you gave your life for your country. Ten years! When I tell them over now, as a nun tells the
beads of her rosary, I realize what good years they were, and how their goodness--with such
goodness as I had in me to face them--came through you.

Even after you died, you seemed to be near, with encouragement and advice. Remembering how
pleased you were, when I decided to train as a nurse, added later to the sense of your nearness,
because I felt you would rejoice when I was able to be of real use. It was only after you went
that my work began to count, but I was sure you knew. I could hear your voice say, "Good girl!
Hurrah for you!" when I got the gold medal for nursing the contagious cases; your dear old
Irish voice, as it used to say the same words when I brought you my school prizes.

Perhaps I was "a good girl." Anyhow, I was a good nurse. Not that I deserved much credit! Brian
was fighting, and in danger day and night. You were gone; and I was glad to be a soldier in
my way, with never a minute to think of myself. Besides, somehow I wasn't one bit afraid. I
loved the work. But, Padre mio, I am not a good girl now. I'm a wicked girl, wickeder than
you or I ever dreamed it was in me to be, at my worst. Yet if your spirit should appear as
I write, to warn me that I'm sinning an unpardonable sin, I should go on sinning it.

For one thing, it's for Brian, twin brother of my body, twin brother of my heart. For another
thing, it's too late to turn back. There's a door that has slammed shut behind me.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, I'll begin and tell you everything exactly as it happened. Many a "confession-letter"
I've begun in just these words, but never one like this. I don't deserve that it should bring
me the heartease which used to come. But the thought of you is my star in darkness. Brian is
the last person to whom I can speak, because above all things I want him to be happy. On earth
there is no one else. Beyond the earth there is--you.

When Brian was wounded, they expected him to die, and he was asking for me. The telegram came
one day when we had all been rather overworked in the hospital, and I was feeling ready to
drop. I must only have imagined my tiredness though, for when I heard about Brian I grew suddenly
strong as steel. I was given leave, and disinfected, and purified as thoroughly as Esther when
she was being made worthy of Ahasuerus. Then I dashed off to catch the first train going north.

St. Raphael was our railway station, but I hadn't seen the place since I took up work in the
Hôpital des Épidémies. That was many months before; and meanwhile a training-school for American
aviators had been started at St. Raphael. News of its progress had drifted to our ears, but
of course the men weren't allowed to come within a mile of us: we were too contagious. They
had sent presents, though--presents of money, and one grand gift had burst upon us from a young
millionaire whose father's name is known everywhere. He sent a cheque for a sum so big that
we nurses were nearly knocked down by the size of it. With it was enclosed a request that the
money should be used to put wire-nettings in all windows and doors, and to build a roofed loggia
for convalescents. If there were anything left over, we might buy deck-chairs and air-pillows.
Of course it was easy for any one to know that we needed all these things. Our lack was notorious.
We sent a much disinfected, carbolic-smelling round robin of thanks to "James W. Beckett, Junior,"
son of the western railway king.

As I drove to the gare of St. Raphael, I thought of the kind boys who had helped our poor poilus,
and especially of James Beckett. Whether he were still at the aviation camp, or had finished
his training and gone to the front, I didn't know: but I wafted a blessing to our benefactor.
I little dreamed then of the unforgivable injury I was fated to do him! You see, Padre, I use
the word "fated." That's because I've turned coward. I try to pretend that fate has been too
strong for me. But down deep I know you were right when you said, "Our characters carve our fate."

It was a long journey from the south to the north, where Brian was, for in war-days trains
do what they like and what nobody else likes. I travelled for three days and nights, and when
I came to my journey's end, instead of Brian being dead as I'd seen him in a hundred hideous
dreams, the doctors held out hope that he might live. They told me this to give me courage,
before they broke the news that he would be blind. I suppose they thought I'd be so thankful
to keep my brother at any price, that I should hardly feel the shock. But I wasn't thankful.
I wasn't! The price seemed too big. I judged Brian by myself--Brian, who so worshipped beauty
that I used to call him "Phidias!" I was sure he would rather have gone out of this world whose
face he'd loved, than stay in it without eyes for its radiant smile. But there I made a great
mistake. Brian was magnificent. Perhaps you would have known what to expect of him better than
I knew.

Where you are, you will understand why he did not despair. I couldn't understand then, and
I scarcely can now, though living with my blind Brian is teaching me lessons I feel unworthy
to learn. It was he who comforted me, not I him. He said that all the beauty of earth was his
already, and nothing could take it away. He wouldn't let it be taken away! He said that sight
was first given to all created creatures in the form of a desire to see, desire so intense
that with the developing faculty of sight, animals developed eyes for its concentration. He
reminded me how in dreams, and even in thoughts--if they're vivid enough--we see as distinctly
with our brains as with our eyes. He said he meant to make a wonderful world for himself with
this vision of the brain and soul. He intended to develop the power, so that he would gain
more than he had lost, and I must help him.

Of course I promised to help all I could; but there was death in my heart. I remembered our
gorgeous holiday together before the war, tramping through France, Brian painting those lovely
"impressions" of his, which made him money and something like fame. And oh, I remembered not
only that such happy holidays were over, but that soon there would be no more money for our
bare living!

We were always so poor, that church mice were plutocrats compared to us. At least they need
pay no rent, and have to buy no clothes! I'm sure, if the truth were known, the money Father
left for our education and bringing up was gone before we began to support ourselves, though
you never let us guess we were living on you. As I sat and listened to Brian talk of our future,
my very bones seemed to melt. The only thing I've been trained to do well is to nurse. I wasn't
a bad nurse when the war began. I'm an excellent nurse now. But it's Brian's nurse I must be.
I saw that, in the first hour after the news was broken, and our two lives broken with it.
I saw that, with me unable to earn a penny, and Brian's occupation gone with his sight, we
were about as helpless as a pair of sparrows with their wings clipped.

If Brian in his secret soul had any such thoughts, perhaps he had faith to believe that not
a sparrow can fall, unless its fall is appointed by God. Anyhow, he said never a word about
ways and means, except to mention cheerfully that he had "heaps of pay saved up," nearly thirty
pounds. Of course I answered that I was rich, too. But I didn't go into details. I was afraid
even Brian's optimism might be dashed if I did. Padre, my worldly wealth consisted of five
French bank notes of a hundred francs each, and a few horrible little extra scraps of war-paper
and copper.

The hospital where Brian lay was near the front, in the remains of a town the British had won
back from the Germans. I called the place Crucifix Corner: but God knows we are all at Crucifix
Corner now! I lodged in a hotel that had been half knocked down by a bomb, and patched up for
occupation. As soon as Brian was able to be moved, the doctor wanted him to go to Paris to
an American brain specialist who had lately come over and made astonishing cures. Brian's blindness
was due to paralysis of the optic nerve; but this American--Cuyler--had performed spine and
brain operations which had restored sight in two similar cases. There might be a hundredth
chance for my brother.

Of course I said it would be possible to take Brian to Paris. I'd have made it possible if
I'd had to sell my hair to do it; and you know my curly black mop of hair was always my pet
vanity. Brian being a soldier, he could have the operation free, if Doctor Cuyler considered
it wise to operate; but--as our man warned me--there were ninety-nine chances to one against
success: and at all events there would be a lot of expenses in the immediate future.

I sent in my resignation to the dear Hôpital des Épidémies, explaining my reasons: and presently
Brian and I set out for Paris by easy stages. The cap was put on the climax for me by remembering
how he and I had walked over that very ground three years before, in the sunshine of life and
summer. Brian too thought of the past, but not in bitterness. I hid my anguish from him, but
it gnawed the heart of me with the teeth of a rat. I couldn't see what Brian had ever done
to deserve such a fate as his, and I began to feel wicked, wicked. It seemed that destiny had
built up a high prison wall in front of my brother and me, and I had a wild impulse to kick
and claw at it, though I knew I couldn't pull it down.

When we arrived in Paris, Doctor Cuyler saw us at once; but his opinion added another pile
of flinty black blocks to the prison wall. He thought that there would be no hope from an operation.
If there were any hope at all (he couldn't say there was) it lay in waiting, resting, and building
up Brian's shattered health. After months of perfect peace, it was just on the cards that sight
might come back of itself, suddenly and unexpectedly, in a moment. We were advised to live
in the country, and Doctor Cuyler suggested that it would be well for my brother to have surroundings
with agreeable occupation for the mind. If he were a musician he must have a piano. There ought
to be a garden for him to walk in and even work in. Motoring, with the slight vibration of
a good car, would be particularly beneficial a little later on. I suppose we must have looked
to Doctor Cuyler like millionaires, for he didn't appear to dream that there could be the slightest
difficulty in carrying out his programme.

I sat listening with the calm mien of one to whom money comes as air comes to the lungs; but
behind my face the wildest thoughts were raging. You've sometimes seen a row of tall motionless
pines, the calmest, stateliest things on earth, screening with their branches the mad white
rush of a cataract. My brain felt like such a screened cataract.

Except for his blindness, by this time Brian was too well for a hospital. We were at the small,
cheap hotel on "la rive gauche" where we'd stayed and been happy three years ago, before starting
on our holiday trip. When we came back after the interview with Doctor Cuyler, Brian was looking
done up, and I persuaded him to lie down and rest. No one else could have slept, after so heavy
a blow of disappointment, without a drug, but Brian is a law unto himself. He said if I would
sit by him and read, he'd feel at peace, and would drop off into a doze. It was three o'clock
in the afternoon, and I hadn't glanced yet at the newspaper we had bought in the morning. I
took it up, to please Brian with the rustling of the pages, not expecting to concentrate upon
a line but instantly my eyes were caught by a name I knew.

"Tragic Romance of Millionaire's Family," I read. "James W. Beckett brings his wife to France
and Reads Newspaper Notice of Only Son's Death."

This was the double-line, big-lettered heading of a half column on the front page; and it brought
to my mind a picture. I saw a group of nurses gazing over each other's shoulders at a blue
cheque. It was a cheque for six thousand francs, signed in a clear, strong hand, "James W.
Beckett, Junior."

So he was dead, that generous boy, to whom our hearts had gone out in gratitude! It could not
be very long since he had finished his training at St. Raphael and begun work at the front.
What a waste of splendid material it seemed, that he should have been swept away so soon!

I read on, and from my own misery I had an extra pang to spare for James Beckett, Senior, and
his wife.

Someone had contrived to tear a fragmentary interview from the "bereaved railway magnate,"
as he was called in the potted phrase of the journalist. Apparently the poor, trapped man had
been too soft-hearted or too dazed with grief to put up a forceful resistance, and the reporter
had been quick to seize his advantage.

He had learned that Mr. and Mrs. James W. Beckett, Senior, had nearly died of homesickness
for their son. They had thought of "running across to surprise Jimmy." And then a letter had
come from him saying that in a fortnight his training would be over. He was to be granted eight
days' leave, which he didn't particularly want, since he couldn't spend it with them; and immediately
after he would go to the front.

"We made up our minds that Jimmy should spend that leave of his with us," the old man had said.
"We got our papers in a hurry and engaged cabins on the first boat that was sailing. Unluckily
there wasn't one for nearly a week, but we did the best we could. When everything was fixed
up, I wired Jimmy to meet us at the Ritz, in Paris. We had a little breeze with a U-boat, and
we ran into some bad weather which made my wife pretty sick, but nothing mattered to us except
the delay, we were so crazy to see the boy. At Bordeaux a letter from him was waiting. It told
how he was just as crazy to see us, but we'd only have twenty-four hours together, as his leave
and orders for the front had both been advanced. The delay at sea had cost a day, and that
seemed like hard lines, as we should reach Paris with no more than time to wish the lad God-speed.
But in the train, when we came to look at the date, we saw that we'd miscalculated. Unless
Jimmy'd been able to get extra leave we'd miss him altogether. His mother said that would be
too bad to be true. We hoped and prayed to find him at the Ritz. Instead, we found news that
he had fallen in his first battle."

The interviewer went on, upon his own account, to praise "Jimmy" Beckett. He described him
as a young man of twenty-seven, "of singularly engaging manner and handsome appearance; a graduate
with high honours from Harvard, an all-round sportsman and popular with a large circle of friends,
but fortunately leaving neither a wife nor a fiancée behind him in America." The newly qualified
aviator had, indeed, fallen in his first battle: but according to the writer it had been a
battle of astonishing glory for a beginner. Single-handed he had engaged four enemy machines,
manoeuvring his own little Nieuport in a way to excite the highest admiration and even surprise
in all spectators. Two out of the four German 'planes he had brought down over the French lines;
and was in chase of the third, flying low above the German trenches, when two new Fokkers appeared
on the scene and attacked him. His plane crashed to earth in flames, and a short time after,
prisoners had brought news of his death.

"Mr. and Mrs. James W. Beckett will have the sympathy of all Europe as well as their native
land, in these tragic circumstances," the journalist ended his story with a final flourish.
"If such grief could be assuaged, pride in the gallant death of their gallant son might be
a panacea."

"As if you could make pride into a balm for broken hearts!" I said to myself in scorn of this
flowery eloquence. For a few minutes I forgot my own plight to pity these people whom I had
never seen. The Paris Daily Messenger slid off my lap on to the floor, and dropped with the
back page up. When I had glanced toward the bed, and seen that Brian still slept, my eyes fell
on the paper again. The top part of the last page is always devoted to military snapshots,
and a face smiled up at me from it--a face I had seen once and never forgotten.

My heart gave a jump, Padre, because the one tiny, abbreviated dream-romance of my life came
from the original of that photograph. Although the man I knew (if people can know each other
in a day's acquaintance) had been en civile, and this one was in aviator's uniform, I was sure
they were the same. And even before I'd snatched up the paper to read what was printed under
the picture, something--the wonderful inner Something that's never wrong--told me I was looking
at a portrait of Jimmy Beckett.

CHAPTER II

I never mentioned my one-day romance to anybody. Only very silly, sentimental girls would put
such an episode into words, and flatter themselves by calling it a romance. But now that you
and Jimmy Beckett have both given your lives for the great cause, and are in the same mysterious
Beyond while I'm still down here at Crucifix Corner, I can tell you the story. If you and he
meet, it may make it easier for him to forgive me the thing I have done.

When Brian and I were having that great summer holiday of ours, the year before the war--one
day we were in a delicious village near a cathedral town on the Belgian border. A piece of
luck had fallen in our way, like a ripe apple tumbling off a tree. A rich Parisian and his
wife came motoring along, and stopped out of sheer curiosity to look at a picture Brian was
painting, under a white umbrella near the roadside. I was not with him. I think I must have
been in the garden of our quaint old hotel by the canal side, writing letters--probably one
to you; but the couple took such a fancy to Brian's "impression," that they offered to buy
it. The bargain was struck, there and then. Two days later arrived a telegram from Paris asking
for another picture to "match" the first at the same price. I advised Brian to choose out two
or three sketches for the people to select from, and carry them to Paris himself, rather than
trust the post. He went; and it was on the one day of his absence that my romance happened.

Ours was a friendly little hotel, with a darling landlady, who was almost as much interested
in Brian and me as if she'd been our foster-mother. The morning after Brian left, she came
waddling out to the adorable, earwiggy, rose-covered summer-house that I'd annexed as a private
sitting room. "Mademoiselle," she breathlessly announced, "there is a young millionaire of
a monsieur Anglais or Américain just arrived. What a pity he should be wasted because Monsieur
your brother has gone! I am sure if he could but see one of the exquisite pictures he would
wish to buy all!"

"How do you know that the monsieur is a millionaire, and what makes you think he would care
about pictures?" I enquired.

"I know he is a millionaire because he has come in one of those grand automobiles which only
millionaires ever have. And I think he cares for pictures because the first thing he did when
he came into the hall was to stare at the old prints on the wall. He praised the two best which
the real artists always praise, and complimented me on owning them" the dear creature explained.
"Besides, he is in this neighbourhood expressly to see the cathedral; and monsieur your brother
has made a most beautiful sketch of the cathedral. It is now in his portfolio. Is there nothing
we can do? I have already induced the monsieur to drink a glass of milk while I have come to
consult Mademoiselle."

I thought hard for a minute, because it would be grand if I could say when Brian came back,
"I have sold your cathedral for you." But I might have saved myself brain fag. Madame Mounet
had settled everything in her head, and was merely playing me, like a foolish fish.

"What I have thought of is this," she said. "I told the monsieur that he could see something
better than my prints if he would give himself the pain of waiting till I could fetch the key
of a room where an artist-client of ours has a marvellous exhibition. There is no such room
yet, but there can be, and the exhibition can be, too, if Mademoiselle will make haste to pin
her brother's pictures to the walls of the yellow salon. With a hammer and a few tacks--voilà
the thing is done. What does Mademoiselle say?"

Mademoiselle said "Yes--yes!" to her part of the programme. But what of the millionaire monsieur?
Would he not balk? Would he not refuse to be bothered?

Madame was absolutely confident that he would not do these disappointing things. She was so
confident that I vaguely suspected she had something up her sleeve: but time pressed, and instead
of Sherlock Holmesing I darted to my work. Afterward she confessed, with pride rather than
repentance. She described graphically how the face of the monsieur had fallen when she asked
him to look at an exhibition of pictures; how he had begun to make an excuse that he must be
off at once to the cathedral; and how she had ventured to cut him short by remarking, "Mademoiselle
the sister of the artist, she who will show the work, ah, it is a jeune fille of the most romantic
beauty!" On hearing this, the monsieur had said no more about the cathedral, but had ordered
the glass of milk.

In fifteen minutes the exhibition (consisting of six sketches!) was ready in the showroom of
the hotel, the yellow salon which had been occupied as a bedchamber one night by the Empress
Eugénie, and was always kept locked except on gala occasions. I, not knowing how I had been
over-praised to the audience, was also ready, quivering with the haste I had made in pinning
up the pictures and opening the musty, close room to the air. Then came in a young man.

As I write, Padre, I am back again in that salon jaune, and he is walking in at the door, pausing
a second on the threshold at sight of me. I will give you the little play in one act. We smile.
The hero of the comedy-drama has a rather big mouth, and such white teeth that his smile, in
his brown face, is a lightning-flash at dusk. It is a thin face with two dimples that make
lines when he laughs. His eyes are gray and long, with the eagle-look that knows far spaces;
deep-set eyes under straight black brows, drawn low. His lashes are black, too, but his short
crinkly hair is brown. He has a good square forehead, and a high nose like an Indian's. He
is tall, and has one of those lean, lanky loose-jointed figures that crack tennis-players and
polo men have. I like him at once, and I think he likes me, for his eyes light up; and just
for an instant there's a feeling as if we looked through clear windows into each other's souls.
It is almost frightening, that effect!

I begin to talk, to shake off an odd embarrassment.

"Madame Mounet tells me you want to see my brother's pictures," I say. "Here are a few sketches.
He has taken all the rest worth looking at to Paris."

"It's good of you to let me come in," the hero of the play answers. Instantly I know he's not
English. He has one of those nice American voices, with a slight drawl, that somehow sound
extraordinarily frank. I don't speculate about his name. I don't stop to wonder who he is.
I think only of what he is. I forget that Madame has exploited him as a millionaire. I don't
care whether or not he buys a picture. I want nothing, except the pleasure of talking with
him, and seeing how he looks at me.

I mumble some polite nonsense in return for his. He gazes at Brian's water-colours and admires
them. Then he turns from the pictures to me. We discuss the sketches and the scenes they represent.
"Oh, have you been there?" "Why, I was at that place a week ago!" "How odd!" "We must have
missed each other by a day." And we drift into gossip about ourselves. Still we don't come
to the subject of names. Names seem to be of no importance. They belong to the world of conventions.

We talk and talk--mostly of France, and our travels, and pictures and books we love; but our
eyes speak of other things. I feel that his are saying, "You are beautiful!" Mine answer, "I'm
glad you think that. Why do you seem so different to me from other people?" Then suddenly,
there's a look too long between us. "I wish my brother were here to explain his pictures!"
I cry; though I don't wish it at all. It is only that I must break the silence.

This brings us back to the business in hand. He says, "May I really buy one of these sketches?"

"Are you sure you want to?" I laugh.

"Sure!" he answers. And I never heard that word sound so nice, even in my own dear Ireland.

He chooses the cathedral--which he hasn't visited yet. Do I know the price my brother has decided
on? With that question I discover that he has Madame Mounet's version of our name. Brian and
I have laughed dozens of laughs at her way of pronouncing O'Malley. "Ommalee" we are for her,
and "Mees Ommalee" she has made me for her millionaire. For fun, I don't correct him. Let him
find out for himself who we really are! I say that my brother hasn't fixed a price; but would
six hundred francs seem very high? The man considers it ridiculously low. He refuses to pay
less than twice that sum. Even so, he argues he will be cheating us, and getting me into hot
water when my brother comes. We almost quarrel, and at last the hero has his way. He strikes
me as one who is used to that!

When the matter is settled, an odd look passes over his face. I wonder if he has changed his
mind, and doesn't know how to tell me his trouble. Something is worrying him; that is clear.
Just as I'm ready to make things easy, with a question, he laughs.

"I'm going to take you into my confidence," he says, "and tell you a story--about myself. In
Paris, before I started on this tour, a friend of mine gave a man's dinner for me. He and the
other chaps were chaffing because--oh, because of a silly argument we got into about--life
in general, and mine in particular. On the strength of it my chum bet me a thing he knew I
wanted, that I couldn't go through my trip under an assumed name. I bet I could, and would.
I bet a thing I want to keep. That's the silly situation. I hate not telling you my real name,
and signing a cheque for your brother. But I've stuck it out for four weeks, and the bet has
only two more to run. I'm calling myself Jim Wyndham. It's only my surname I've dropped for
the bet. The rest is mine. May I pay for the picture in cash--and may I come back here, or
wherever you are on the fifteenth day from now, and introduce myself properly? Or--you've only
to speak the word, and I'll throw over the whole footling business this minute, and----"

I cut in, to say that I won't speak the word, and he mustn't throw the business over. It is
quite amusing I tell him, and I hope he'll win his bet. As for the picture--he may pay as he
chooses. But about the proper introduction--Heaven knows where I shall be in a fortnight. My
brother loves to make up his mind the night beforehand, where to go next. We are a pair of tramps.

"You don't do your tramping on foot?"

"Indeed we do! We haven't seen a railway station since our first day out from Paris. We stop
one day in a place we don't care for: three in a place we like: a week or more in a place we love."

"Then at that rate you won't have got far in fifteen days. I know the direction you've come
from by what you've told me, and your brother's sketches. You wouldn't be here on the border
of Belgium if you didn't mean to cross the frontier."

"Oh, we shall cross it, of course. But where we shall go when we get across is another question."

"I'll find the answer, and I'll find you," he flings at me with a smile of defiance.

"Why should you give yourself trouble?"

"To--see some more of your brother's pictures," he says gravely. I know that he wishes to see
me, not the pictures, and he knows that I know; but I let it go at that.

When the sketch has been wrapped up between cardboards, and the twelve hundred francs placed
carelessly on a table, there seems no reason why Mr. Jim Wyndham shouldn't start for the cathedral.
But he suddenly decides that the way of wisdom is to eat first, and begs me to lunch with him.
"Do, please," he begs, "just to show you're not offended with my false pretences."

I yearn to say yes, and don't see why I shouldn't; so I do. We have déjeuner together in the
summer-house where Brian and I always eat. We chat about a million things. We linger over our
coffee, and I smoke two or three of his gold-tipped Egyptians. When we suppose an hour has
gone by, at most, behold, it is half-past four! I tell him he must start: he will be too late
for the cathedral at its best. He says, "Hang the cathedral!" and refuses to stir unless I
promise to dine with him when he comes back.

"You mean in a fortnight?" I ask. "Probably we shan't be here."

"I mean this evening."

"But--you're not coming back! You're going another way. You told me----"

"Ah, that was before we were friends. Of course I'm coming back. I'd like to stay to-morrow,
and----"

"You certainly must not! I won't dine with you to-night if you do."

"Will you if I don't?"

"Perhaps."

"Then I'll order the dinner before I start for the cathedral. I want it to be a perfect one."

"But--I've said only perhaps."

"Don't you want to pour a little honest gold into poor old Madame Mounet's pocket?"

"Ye-es."

"If so, you mustn't chase away her customers."

"For her sake, the dinner is a bargain!"

"Not the least bit for my sake?"

"Oh, but yes! I've enjoyed our talk. And you've been so nice about my brother's pictures."

So it is settled. I put on my prettiest dress, white muslin, with some fresh red roses Madame
Mounet brings me; and the dinner-table in the summer-house is a picture, with pink Chinese
lanterns, pink-shaded candles, and pink geraniums. Madame won't decorate with roses because
she explains, roses anywhere except on my toilette, "spoil the unique effect of Mademoiselle."

The little inn on the canal-side buzzes with excitement. Not within the memory of man or woman
has there been so important a client as Mr. Jim Wyndham. Most motoring millionaires dash by
in a cloud of dust to the cathedral town, where a smart modern hotel has been run up to cater
for tourists. This magnificent Monsieur Américain engages the "suite of the Empress Eugénie,"
as it grandly advertises itself, for his own use and that of his chauffeur, merely to bathe
in, and rest in, though they are not to stay the night. And the dinner ordered will enable
Madame to show what she can do, a chance she rarely gets from cheeseparing customers, like
Brian and me, and others of our ilk.

I am determined not to betray my childish eagerness by being first at the rendezvous. I keep
to my hot room, until I spy a tall young figure of a man in evening dress striding toward the
arbour. To see this sight, I have to be at my window; but I hide behind a white curtain and
a screen of wistaria and roses. I count sixty before I go down. I walk slowly. I stop and examine
flowers in the garden. I could catch a wonderful gold butterfly, but perhaps it is as happy
as I am. I wouldn't take its life for anything on earth! As I watch it flutter away, my host
comes out of the arbour to meet me.

We pass two exquisite hours in each other's company. I recall each subject on which we touch
and even the words we speak, as if all were written in a journal. The air is so clear and still
that we can hear the famous chimes of the cathedral clock, far away, in the town that is a
bank of blue haze on the horizon. At half-past nine I begin to tell my host that he must go,
but he does not obey till after ten. Then at last he takes my hand for good-bye--no, au revoir:
he will not say good-bye! "In two weeks," he repeats, "we shall meet again. I shall have won
my bet, and I shall bring you the thing I win."

"I won't take it!" I laugh.

"Wait till you see it, before you make sure."

"I'm not even sure yet of seeing you," I remind him.

"You may be sure if I'm alive. I shall scour the country for miles around to find you. I shall
succeed--unless I'm dead."

All this time he had been holding my hand, while I have pretended to be unconscious of the
fact. Suddenly I seem to remember, and reluctantly he lets my fingers slip through his.

We bid each other adieu in the arbour. I do not go to "see him off," and I keep the picture
of Jim Wyndham under the roof of roses, in the moon-and candle-light.

Just so I have kept it for more than three years; for we never met again. And now that I've
seen the photograph of Jimmy Beckett, I know that we never shall meet.

Why he did not find us when the fortnight of his bet was over I can't imagine. It seems that,
if he tried, he must have come upon our tracks, for we travelled scarcely more than twenty
miles in the two weeks. Perhaps he changed his mind, and did not try. Perhaps he feared that
my "romantic beauty" might lose its romance, when seen for the second time. Something like
this must be the explanation; and I confess to you, Padre, that the failure of the prince to
keep our tryst was the biggest disappointment and the sharpest humiliation of my life. It took
most of the conceit out of me, and since then I've never been vain of my alleged "looks" or
"charm" for more than two minutes on end. I've invariably said to myself, "Remember Jim Wyndham,
and how he didn't think you worth the bother of coming back to see."

Now you know why I can't describe the effect upon my mind of learning that Jim Wyndham, the
hero of my one-day romance, and Jimmy Beckett, the dead American aviator, were one.

CHAPTER III

There could be no chance of mistake. The photograph was a very good likeness.

For a while I sat quite still with the newspaper in my hands, living over the day in the shabby
old garden. I felt like a mourner, bereaved of a loved one, for in a way--a schoolgirl way,
perhaps--I had loved my prince of the arbour. And always since our day together, I'd compared
other men with him, to their disadvantage. No one else ever captured my imagination as he captured
it in those few hours.

For a moment that little bit of Long Ago pushed itself between me and Now. I was grieving for
my dead romance, instead of for Brian's broken life: but quickly I woke up. Things were as
bad as ever again, and even worse, because of their contrast with the past I'd conjured up.
Grief for the death of Jimmy Beckett mingled with grief for Brian, and anxieties about money,
in the dull, sickly way that unconnected troubles tangle themselves together in nightmare dreams.

I'm not telling you how I suffered, as an excuse for what I did, dear Padre. I'm only explaining
how one thing led to another.

It was in thinking of Jim Wyndham, and what might have happened between us if he'd come back
to me as he promised, that the awful idea developed in my head. The thought wasn't born full-grown
and armoured, like Minerva when she sprang from the brain of Jupiter. It began like this:

"If I'd been engaged to him, I might have gone to his parents now. I should have comforted
them by talking about their son, and they could have comforted me. Perhaps they would have
adopted us as their children. We need never have been lonely and poor. Jim would have wished
us to live with his father and mother, for all our sakes."

When the thought had gone as far as this, it suddenly leaped to an enormous height, as if a
devil in me had been doing the mango trick.

I heard myself thinking, "Why don't you go to see Mr. and Mrs. Beckett, and tell them you were
engaged to marry their only son? The paper said he left no fiancée or wife in America. You
can easily make them believe your story. Nobody can prove that it isn't true, and out of evil
good will come for everyone."

Flames seemed to rush through my head with a loud noise, like the Tongues of Fire in the Upper
Room. My whole body was in a blaze. Each nerve was a separate red-hot wire.

I rose to my feet, but I made no sound. Instinct reminded me that I mustn't wake Brian, but
I could breathe better, think better standing, I felt.

"They are millionaires, the Becketts--millionaires!" a voice was repeating in my brain. "They
wouldn't let Brian or you want for anything. They'd be glad if you went to them. You could
make them happy. You could tell them things they'd love to hear--and some would be true things.
You were in the hospital close to St. Raphael for months, while Jimmy Beckett was in the training
camp. Who's to say you didn't meet? If you'd been engaged to him since that day years ago,
you certainly would have met. No rules could have kept you apart. Go to them--go to them--or
if you're afraid, write a note, and ask if they'll receive you. If they refuse, no harm will
have been done."

Maybe, even then, if I'd stopped to tell myself what a wicked, cruel plan it was, I should
have given it up. But it seemed a burning inspiration, and I knew that I must act upon it at
once or never.

I subsided into my chair again, and softly, very softly, hitched it closer to the table which
pretended to be a writing-desk. Inside a blotting-pad were a few sheets of hotel stationery
and envelopes. My stylographic pen glided noiselessly over the paper. Now and then I glanced
over my shoulder at Brian, and he was still fast asleep, looking more like an angel than a
man. You know my nickname for him was always "Saint" because of his beautiful pure face, and
the far-away look in his eyes. Being a soldier has merely bronzed him a little. It hasn't carved
any hard lines. Being blind has made the far-away things he used to see come near, so that
he walks in the midst of them.

I wrote quickly and with a dreadful kind of ease, not hesitating or crossing out a single word.

  "Dear Mr. and Mrs. Beckett," I began (because I meant to
  address my letter to both). "I've just heard that you have
  come over from America, only in time to learn of your great loss.
  Is it an intrusion to tell you that your loss is mine too? I dearly
  loved your son. I met him nearly four years ago, when my
  brother and I were travelling in France and Belgium. Our
  meeting was the romance of my life. I hardly dare to think
  he told you about it. But a few months ago I took up nursing
  at the Hôpital des Épidemies, near St. Raphael. As you know,
  he was there training. He sent us a cheque for our sufferers; and
  what was fated to happen did happen. We met again. We
  loved each other. We were engaged. He may have written
  to you, or he may have waited till he could tell you by word of
  mouth.

  "I am in Paris, as you will see by this address. My soldier
  brother has lost his sight. I brought him here in the hope
  of a cure by your great American specialist Dr. Cuyler, but
  he tells me an operation would be useless. They say that one
  sorrow blunts another. I do not find it so. My heart is almost
  breaking. May I call upon you? To see his father and mother
  would be a comfort to me. But if it would be otherwise for you,
  please say 'no.' I will try to understand.

  "Yours in deepest sympathy,

    "MARY O'MALLEY."

As I finished, Brian waked from his nap, so I was able to leave him and run downstairs to send
off the letter by hand.

When it had gone, I felt somewhat as I've felt when near a man to whom an anæsthetic is being
given. The fumes of ether have an odd effect on me. They turn me into a "don't care" sort of
person without conscience and without fear. No wonder some nations give soldiers a dash of
ether in their drink, when they have to go "over the top!" I could go, and feel no sense of
danger, even though my reason knew that it existed.

So it was while I waited for the messenger from our mean little hotel to come back from the
magnificent Ritz. Would he suddenly dash my sinful hopes by saying, "Pas de réponse, Mademoiselle";
or would he bring me a letter from Father and Mother Beckett? If he brought such a letter,
would it invite me to call and be inspected, or would it suggest that I kindly go to the devil?

I was tremendously keyed up; and yet--curiously I didn't care which of these things happened.
It was rather as if I were in a theatre, watching an act of a play that might end in one of
several ways, neither one of which would really matter.

I read aloud to Brian. My voice sounded sweet and well modulated, I thought; but quite like
that of a stranger. I was reading some moving details of a vast battle, which--ordinarily--would
have stirred me to the heart. But they made no impression on my brain. I forgot the words as
they left my lips. Dimly I wondered if there were a curse falling upon me already: if I were
doomed to lose all sense of grief or joy, as the man in the old story lost his shadow when
he sold it to Satan.

A long time passed. I stopped reading. Brian seemed inclined for the first time since his misfortune
to talk over ways and means, and how we were to arrange our future. I shirked the discussion.
Things would adjust themselves, I said evasively. I had some vague plans. Perhaps they would
soon materialize. Even by to-morrow----

When I had got as far as that, tap, tap, came the long expected knock at the door. I sprang
up. Suddenly the ether-like carelessness was gone. My life--my very soul--was at stake. I could
hardly utter the little word "Entrez!" my throat was so tight, so dry.

The very young youth who opened the door was not the one I had sent to the Ritz. But I had
no time to wonder why not, when he announced: "Un monsieur et une dame, en bas, demandent à
voir Mademoiselle."

My head whirled. Could it be?--but, surely no! They would not have come to see me. Yet whom
did I know in Paris? Who had learned that we were at this hotel? Had the monsieur and the dame
given their name? No, they had not. They had said that Mademoiselle would understand. They
were in the salon.

I heard myself reply that I would descend tout de suite. I heard myself tell Brian that I should
not be long away. I saw my face in the glass, deathly pale in its frame of dark hair, the eyes
immense, with the pupils dilating over the blue, as an inky pool might drown a border of violets
and blot out their colour. Even my lips were white. I was glad I had on a black dress--glad
in a bad, deceitful way; though for a moment after learning who Jimmy Beckett was, I had felt
a true thrill of loyal satisfaction because I was in mourning for my lost romance.

I went slowly down the four flights of stairs. I could not have gone fast without falling.
I opened the door of the stuffy salon, and saw--the dearest couple the wide world could hold.

CHAPTER IV

They sat together, an old-fashioned pair, on an old-fashioned sofa, facing the door. The thing
I'd thought impossible had happened. The father and mother of Jim Beckett had come to me.

For some reason, they seemed as much surprised at sight of me as I at sight of them. We gazed
at each other for an instant, all three without moving. Then the old man (he was old, not middle-aged,
as most fathers are nowadays) got to his feet. He took a step toward me, holding out his hand.
His eyes searched mine; and, dimmed by years and sorrow as they were, there was in them still
a reminder of the unforgotten, eagle-gaze. From him the son had inherited his high nose and
square forehead. Had he lived, some day Jim's face might have been chopped by Time's hatchet
into just such a rugged brown mask of old-manliness. Some day, Jim's thick and smooth brown
hair might have turned into such a snow-covered thatch, like the roof of a cottage on a Christmas
card.

The old lady was thin and flat of line, like a bas-relief that had come alive and lost its
background. She had in her forget-me-not blue eyes the look of a child who has never been allowed
to grow up; and I knew at once that she was one of those women kept by their menfolk on a high
shelf, like a fragile flower in a silver vase. She, too, rose as I entered, but sank down again
on the sofa with a little gesture at the same time welcoming and helpless.

"My daughter, no wonder he loved you!" said the old man. "Now we see you, we understand, don't
we, Jenny?" Holding my hand, he turned and led me toward his wife, looking at me first, then
at her. "We had to come. We're going to love you, for yourself--and for him."

Speaking, his face had a faintly perceptible quiver of strained nerves or old age, like a sigh
of wind ruffling the calm surface of water. I felt how he fought to hide his emotion, and the
answering thrill of it shot up through my arm, as our hands touched. My heart beat wildly,
and the queer thought came that, if we were in the dark, it would send out pulsing lights from
my body like the internal lamp of a firefly.

He called me his "daughter!" As I heard that word of love, which I had stolen, I realized the
full shame and abomination of the thing I had done. My impulse was to cry out the truth. But
it was only an impulse, such an impulse as lures one to jump from a height. I caught myself
back from yielding, as I would have caught myself back from the precipice, lest in another
moment I should lie crushed in a dark gulf. I waved before my eyes the flag of Brian's need,
and my bad courage came back.

I let Mr. Beckett lead me to the sofa. I let his hand on my shoulder gently press me to sit
down by his wife, who had not spoken yet. Her blue eyes, fixed with piteous earnestness on
mine, were like those of a timid animal, when it is making up its mind whether to trust and
"take to" a human stranger who offers advances. I seemed to see her thinking--thinking not
so much with her brain as with her heart, as you used to say Brian thought. I saw her ideas
move as if they'd been the works of a watch ticking under glass. I knew that she wasn't clever
enough to read my mind, but I felt that she was more dangerous, perhaps, than a person of critical
intelligence. Being one of those always-was, always-will-be women--wife-women, mother-women
she might by instinct see the badness of my heart as I was reading the simple goodness of hers.

Her longing to know the soul of me pierced to it like a fine crystal spear; and the pathos
of this bereaved mother and father, who had so generously answered my call, brought tears to
my eyes. I had not winced away from her blue searchlights, but tears gathered and suddenly
poured over my cheeks. Perhaps it was the tragedy of my own situation more than hers which
touched me, for I was pitying as much as hating myself. Still the tears were true tears; and
I suppose nothing I could have said or done would have appealed to Jim Beckett's mother as
they appealed.

"Oh! you loved him!" she quavered, as if that were the one question for which she had sought
the answer. And the next thing I knew we were crying in each other's arms, the little frail
woman and the cruel girl who was deceiving her. But, Padre, the cruel girl was suffering almost
as she deserved to suffer. She had loved Jim Wyndham, and never will she love another man.

"There, there!" Mr. Beckett was soothing us, patting our shoulders and our heads. "That's right,
cry together, but don't grudge Jim to the cause, either of you. I don't! I'm proud he went
the way he did. It was a grand wayand a grand cause. We've got to remember how many other hearts
in the world are aching as ours ache. We're not alone. I guess that helps a little. And Jenny,
this poor child has a double sorrow to bear. Think of what she wrote about her brother, who's
lost his sight."

The little old lady sat up, and with a clean, lavender-scented handkerchief wiped first my
eyes and then her own.

"I know--I know," she said. "But the child will let us try to comfort her--unless she has a
father and mother of her own?"

"My father and mother died when I was a little girl," I answered. "I've only my brother in
the world."

"You have us," they both exclaimed in the same breath: and though they bore as much physical
likeness to one another as a delicate mountain-ash tree bears to the rocky mountain on which
it grows, suddenly the two faces were so lit with the same beautiful inward light, that there
was a striking resemblance between them. It was the kind of resemblance to be seen only on
the faces of a pair who have loved each other, and thought the same thoughts long year after
long year. The light was so warm, so pure and bright, that I felt as if a fire had been lit
for me in the cold dark room. I didn't deserve to warm my hands in its glow; but I forgot my
falseness for a moment, and let whatever was good in me flow out in gratitude.

I couldn't speak. I could only look, and kiss the old lady's tiny hand--ungloved to hold mine,
and hung with loose rings of rich, ancient fashion such as children love to be shown in mother's
jewel-box. In return, she kissed me on both cheeks, and the old man smoothed my hair, heavily.

"Why yes, that's settled then, you belong to us," he said. "It's just as if Jimmy'd left you
to us in his will. In his last letter the boy told his mother and me that when we met we'd
get a pleasant surprise. We--silly old folks!--never thought of a love story. We supposed Jim
was booked for promotion, or a new job with some sort of honour attached to it. And yet we
might have guessed, if we'd had our wits about us, for we did know that Jimmy'd fallen in love
at first sight with a girl in France, before the war broke out."

"He told you that!" I almost gasped. Then he had fallen in love, and hadn't gone away forgetting,
as I'd thought! Or was it some other girl who had won him at first sight? This was what I said
to myself: and something that was not myself added, "Now, if you don't lose your head, you
will find out in a minute all you've been puzzling over for nearly four years."

"He told his mother," Mr. Beckett said. "Afterwards she told me. Jim wouldn't have minded.
He knew well enough she always tells me everything, and he didn't ask her to keep any secret."

"It was when I was sort of cross one night, because he didn't pay enough attention to a nice
girl I'd invited, hoping to please him," Mrs. Beckett confessed. "He'd just come back from
Europe, and I enquired if the French girls were so handsome, they'd spoiled him for our home
beauties. I let him see that his father and I wanted him to marry young, and give us a daughter
we could love. Then he answered--I remember as if 'twas yesterday!--'Mother, you wouldn't want
her unless I could love her too, would you?' 'Why no,' I answered. 'But you would love her!'
He didn't speak for a minute. He was holding my hand, counting my rings--these ones you see--like
he always loved to do from a child. When he'd counted them all, he looked up and said, 'It
wasn't a French girl spoiled me for the others. I'm not sure, but I think she was Irish. I
lost her, like a fool, trying to win a silly bet.' Those were his very words. I know, because
they struck me so I teased him to explain. After a while he did."

"Oh, do tell me what he said!" I begged.

At that minute Jim was alive for us all three. We were living with him in the past. I think
none of us saw the little stuffy room where we sat. Only our bodies were there, like the empty,
amber shells of locusts when the locusts have freed themselves and vanished. I was in a rose
arbour, on a day of late June, in a garden by a canal that led to Belgium. The Becketts were
in their house across the sea.

"Why," his mother hesitated, "it was quite a story. But when he found you again he must have
told you it all."

"Ah, but do tell me what he told you!"

"Well, it began with a landlady in a hotel wanting him to see a picture. The artist was away,
but his sister was there. That was you, my dear."

"Yes, it was I. My poor Brian painted such beautiful things before----"

"We know they were beautiful, because we've seen the picture," Father Beckett broke in. "But
go on, Mother. We'll tell about the picture by and by. She'll like to hear. But the rest first!"

The little old lady obeyed, and went on. "Jimmy said he was taken to a room, and there stood
the most wonderful girl he'd ever seen in his life--his 'dream come alive.' That's how he described
her. And there was more. Father, I never told you this part. But maybe Miss--Miss----"

"Will you call me 'Mary'?" I asked.

"Maybe 'Mary' would like to hear. Of course I never forgot one word. No mother could forget!
And now I see he described you just right. When you hear, you'll know it was love made his
talk about you poetry-like. Jimmy never talked that way to me of any one, before or since."

Padre, I am going to write down the things he said of me, because it is exquisite to know that
he thought them. He said, I had eyes "like sapphires fallen among dark grasses." And my hair
was so heavy and thick that, if I pulled out the pins, it would fall around me "in a black
avalanche."

Ah, the joy and the pain of hearing these words like an echo of music I had nearly missed!
There's no language for what I felt. But you will understand.

He had told his mother about our day together. He said, he kept falling deeper in love every
minute, and it was all he could do not to exclaim, "Girl, I simply must marry you!" He dared
not say that lest I should refuse, and there would be an end of everything. So he tried as
hard as he could to make me like him, and remember him till he should come back, in two weeks.
He thought that was the best way; and he would have let his bet slide if he hadn't imagined
that a little mystery might make him more interesting in my eyes. Believing that we had met
again, Mrs. Beckett supposed that he had explained this to me. But of course it was all new,
and when she came to the reason why Jim Wyndham had never come back, I thought for a moment
I should faint. He was taken ill in Paris, three days after we parted, with typhoid fever;
and though it was never a desperate case--owing to his strong constitution--he was delirious
for weeks. Two months passed before he was well enough to look for me, and by that time all
trace of us was lost. Brian and I had gone to England long before. Jim's friend--the one with
whom he had the bet--wired to the Becketts that he was ill, but not dangerously, and they weren't
to come over to France. It was only when he reached home that they knew how serious the trouble
had been.

While I was listening, learning that Jim had really loved me, and searched for me, it seemed
that I had a right to him after all: that I was an honest girl, hearing news of her own man,
from his own people. It was only when Mr. Beckett began to draw me out, with a quite pathetic
shyness, on the subject of our worldly resources that I was brought up short again, against
the dark wall of my deceit. It should have been exquisite, it was heartbreaking, to see how
he feared to hurt my feelings with some offer of help from his abundance. "Hurt my feelings!"
And it was with the sole intention of "working" them for money that I'd written to the Becketts.

That looks horrible in black and white, doesn't it, Padre? But I won't try to hide my motives
behind a dainty screen, from your eyes or mine. I had wanted and meant to get as much as I
could for Brian and myself out of Jim Beckett's father and mother. And now, when I was on the
way to obtain my object, more easily than I had expected--now, when I saw the kind of people
they were--now, when I knew that to Jim Wyndham I had been an ideal, "his dream come true."
I saw my own face as in a mirror. It was like the sly, mean face of a serpent disguised as a woman.

I remember once saying to you, Padre, when you had read aloud "The Idylls of the King" to Brian
and me as children, that Vivien was the worst cad I ever heard of since the beginning of the
world! I haven't changed my mind about her since, except that I give her second place. I am
in the first.

I suppose, when I first pictured the Becketts (if I stopped to picture them at all) I imagined
they would be an ordinary American millionaire and millionairess, bow-fronted, self-important
creatures; the old man with a diamond stud like a headlight, the old lady afraid to take cold
if she left off an extra row of pearls. In our desperate state, anything seemed fair in love
or war with such hard, worth-their-weight-in-gold people. But I ought to have known that a
man like Jim Beckett couldn't have such parents! I ought to have known they wouldn't be in
the common class of millionaires of any country; and that whatever their type they would be unique.

Well, I hadn't known. Their kindness, their dear humanness, their simplicity, overwhelmed me
as the gifts of shields and bracelets from the Roman warriors overwhelmed treacherous Tarpeia.
And when they began delicately begging me to be their adopted daughter--the very thing I'd
prayed for to the devil!--I felt a hundred times wickeder than if Jim hadn't set me on a high
pedestal, where they wished to keep me with their money, their love, as offerings.

Whether I should have broken down and confessed everything, or brazened it out in spite of
all if I'd been left alone to decide, I shall never know. For just then the door opened, and
Brian came into the room.

CHAPTER V

Why Brian's coming should make all the difference may puzzle you, Padre, but I'll explain.

Ours is an amateurish hotel, especially since the war. Any one who happens to have the time
or inclination runs it: or if no one has time it runs itself. Consequently mistakes are made.
But what can you expect for eight francs a day, with pension?

I said that a very young youth brought up the news of the Becketts' arrival. He'd merely announced
that "un monsieur et une dame" had called. Apparently they had given no names, no cards. But
in truth there were cards, which had been mislaid, or in other words left upon the desk in
the bureau, with the numbers of both our rooms scrawled on them in pencil. Nobody was there
at the time, but when the concierge came back (he is a sort of unofficial understudy for the
mobilized manager) he saw the cards and sent them upstairs. They were taken to Brian and the
names read aloud to him. He supposed, from vague information supplied by the garçon (it was
a garçon this time) that I wished him to come and join me in the salon with my guests. He hated
the thought of meeting strangers (the name "Beckett" meant nothing to him), but if he were
wanted by his sister, he never yet left her in the lurch.

He and I both knew the house with our eyes shut, before the war; and now that Brian is blind,
he practises in the most reckless way going about by himself. He refused to be led to the salon:
he came unaided and unerring: and I thought when he appeared at the door, I'd never seen him
look so beautiful. He is beautiful you know! Now that his physical eyesight is gone, and he's
developing that mysterious "inner sight" of which he talks, there's no other adjective which
truly expresses him. He stood there for a minute with his hand on the door-knob, with all the
light in the room (there wasn't much) shining straight into his face. It couldn't help doing
that, as the one window is nearly opposite the door; but really it does seem sometimes that
light seeks Brian's face, as the "spot light" in theatres follows the hero or heroine of a play.

There was an asking smile on his lips, and--by accident, of course--his dear blind eyes looked
straight at Mrs. Beckett. We are enough alike, we twins, for any one to know at a glance that
we're brother and sister, so the Becketts would have known, of course, even if I hadn't cried
out in surprise, "Brian!"

They took it for granted that Brian would have heard all about their son Jim; so, touched by
the pathos of his blindness--the lonely pathos (for a blind man is as lonely as a daylight
moon!) Mrs. Beckett almost ran to him and took his hand.

"We're the Becketts, with your sister," she said. "Jimmy's father and mother. I expect you
didn't meet him when they were getting engaged to each other at St. Raphael. But he loved your
picture that he bought just before the war. He used to say, if only you'd signed it, his whole
life might have been different. That was when he'd lost Mary, you see--and he'd got hold of
her name quite wrong. He thought it was Ommalee, and we never knew a word about the engagement,
or her real name or anything, till the letter came to us at our hotel to-day. Then we hurried
around here, as quick as we could; and she promised to be our adopted daughter. That means
you will have to be our adopted son!"

I think Mrs. Beckett is too shy to like talking much at ordinary times. She would rather let
her big husband talk, and listen admiringly to him. But this wasn't an ordinary time. To see
Brian stand at the door, wistful and alone, gave her a pain in her heart, so she rushed to
him, and poured out all these kind words, which left him dazed.

"You are very good to me," he answered, too thoughtful of others' feelings, as always, to blurt
out--as most people would--"I don't understand. Who are you, please?" Instead, his sightless
but beautiful eyes seemed to search the room, and he said, "Molly, you're here, aren't you?"

Now perhaps you begin to understand why his coming, and Mrs. Beckett's greeting of him, stopped
me from telling the truth--if I would have told it. I'm not sure if I would, in any case, Padre;
but as it was I could not. The question seemed settled. To have told the Becketts that I was
an adventuress--a repentant adventuress--and let them go out of my life without Brian ever
knowing they'd come into it was one thing. To explain, to accuse myself before Brian, to make
him despise the only person he had to depend on, and so to spoil the world for him, was another
thing.

I accepted the fate I'd summoned like the genie of a lamp. "Yes, Brian, I'm here," I answered.
And I went to him, and took possession of the hand Mrs. Beckett had left free. "I never told
you about my romance. It was so short. And--and one doesn't put the most sacred things in letters.
I loved a man, and he loved me. We met in France before the war, and lost each other.

"Afterward he came back to fight. A few days ago he fell--just at the time when his parents
had hurried over from America to see him. I--I couldn't resist writing them a letter, though
they were strangers to me. I----"

"That's not a word I like to hear on your lips--'strangers'," Mr. Beckett broke in, "even though
you're speaking of the past. We're all one family now. You don't mind my saying that, Brian,
or taking it for granted you'll consent--or calling you Brian, do you?"

"Mind!" echoed Brian, with his sweet, young smile. "How could I mind? It's like something in
a story. It's a sad story--because the hero's gone out of it--no, he hasn't gone, really! It
only seems so, before you stop to think. I've learned enough about death to learn that. And
I can tell by both your voices you'll be friends worth having."

"Oh, you are a dear boy!" exclaimed Mrs. Beckett. "God is good to give you and your sister
to us in our dark hour. I feel as if Jimmy were here with us. I do believe he is! I know he'd
like me to tell you what he did with your picture, and what we've done with it since, his father
and I."

Brian must have felt that it would be good for us all to talk of the pictures, just then, not
of this "Jimmy" who was still a mystery to him. He caught up the subject and said that he didn't
understand. What picture was it of which they spoke? He generally signed his initials, but
they'd mentioned that this was unsigned----

"Don't you remember," I explained, "the sketch I sold for you to Mr. Wyndham when we were tramping
through France? You told me when you came back from Paris that it wasn't quite finished. You'd
meant to put on a few more touches--and your signature. Well, 'Wyndham' was only the middle
name. I never told you much about that day. I was half ashamed, because it was the day when
my romance began and--broke. I hoped it might begin again sometime, but--but--you shall hear
the whole story soon. Only--not now."

Even as I promised him, I promised myself to tell him nothing. I might have to lie in deeds
to Brian. I wouldn't lie in words. Mrs. Beckett might give him her version of her son's romance--some
day. Just at the moment she was relating, almost happily, the story of the picture: and it
was for me, too.

Jim had had a beautiful frame made for Brian's cathedral sketch, and it had been hung in the
best place--over his desk--in the special sanctum where the things he loved most were put.
In starting for Europe his father and mother had planned to stop only a short time in a Paris
hotel. They had meant to take a house, where Jim could join them whenever he got a few days'
leave: and as a surprise for him they had brought over his favourite treasures from the "den."
Among these was the unsigned picture painted by the brother of The Girl. They had even chosen
the house, a small but charming old château to which Jim had taken a fancy. It was rather close
to the war zone in these days, but that had not struck them as an obstacle. They were not afraid.
They had wired, before sailing, to a Paris agent, telling him to engage the château if it was
still to let furnished. On arriving the answer awaited them: the place was theirs.

"We thought it would be such a joy to Jim," Mrs. Beckett said. "He fell in love with that château
before he came down with typhoid. I'll show you a snapshot he took of it. He used to say he'd
give anything to live there. And crossing on the ship we talked every day of how we'd make
a 'den' for him, full of his own things, and never breathe a word till he opened the door of
the room. We're in honour bound to take the house now, whether or not we use it--without Jim.
I don't know what we shall do, I'm sure! All I know is, I feel as if it would kill me to turn
round and go home with our broken hearts."

"We've got new obligations right here, Jenny. You mustn't forget that," said Mr. Beckett. "Remember
we've just adopted a daughter--and a son, too. We must consult them about our movements."

"Oh, I hadn't forgotten!" the old lady cried. "They--they'll help us to decide, of course.
But just now I can't make myself feel as if one thing was any better than another. If only
we could think of something Jim would have liked us to do! Something--patriotic--for France."

"Mary has seen Jim since we saw him, dear. Perhaps from talk they had she'll have a suggestion
to make."

"Oh no!" I cried. "I've no suggestion."

"And you, Brian?" the old man persisted.

Quickly I answered for my brother. "They never met! Brian couldn't know what--Jim would have
liked you to do."

"It's true, I can't know," said Brian. "But a thought has come into my head. Shall I tell it
to you?"

"Yes!" the Becketts answered in a breath. They gazed at him as if they fancied him inspired
by their son's spirit. No wonder, perhaps! Brian has an inspired look.

"Are you very rich?" he asked bluntly, as a child puts questions which grown-ups veil.

"We're rich in money," answered the old man. "But I guess I never quite realized till now,
when we lost Jimmy, how poor you can be, when you're only rich in what the world can give."

"I suppose you'll want to put up the finest monument for your son that money can buy," Brian
went on, as though he had wandered from his subject. But I--knowing him, and his slow, dreamy
way of getting to his goal--knew that he was not astray. He was following some star which we
hadn't yet seen.

"We've had no time to think of a monument," said Mr. Beckett, with a choke in his voice. "Of
course we would wish it, if it could be done. But Jim lies on German soil. We can't mark the
place----"

"It doesn't much matter--to him--where his body lies," Brian went on. "He is not in German
soil, or in No Man's Land. Wouldn't he like to have a monument in Everyman's Land?"

"What do you mean?" breathed the little old lady. She realized now that blind Brian wasn't
speaking idly.

"Well, you see, France and Belgium together will be Everyman's Land after the war, won't they?"
Brian said.

"Every man who wants the world's true peace has fought in France and Belgium, if he could fight.
Every man who has fought, and every man who wished to fight but couldn't, will want to see
those lands that have been martyred and burned, when they have risen like the Phoenix out of
their own ashes. That's why I call France and Belgium Everyman's Land. You say your Jim spent
some of his happiest days there, and now he's given his life for the land he loved. Wouldn't
you feel as if he went with you, if you made a pilgrimage from town to town he knew in their
days of beauty--if you travelled and studied some scheme for helping to make each one beautiful
again after the war? If you did this in his name and his honour, could he have a better memorial?"

"I guess God has let Jim speak through your lips, and tell us his wish," said Mr. Beckett.
"What do you think, Jenny?"

"I think what you think," she echoed. "It's right the word should come to us from the brother
of Jim's love."

CHAPTER VI

That is the story, Padre, as far as it has gone. No sign from you, no look in your eyes, could
show me myself in a meaner light than shines from the mirror of my conscience. If Jim hadn't
loved me, it would be less shameful to trade on the trust of these kind people. I see that
clearly! And I see how hateful it is to make Brian an innocent partner in the fraud.

I'm taking advantage of one man who is dead, and another who is blind. And it is as though
I were "betting on a certainty," because there's nobody alive who can come forward to tell
the Becketts or Brian what I am. I'm safe, brutally safe!

You'll see from what I have written how Brian turned the scales. The plan he proposed developed
in the Becketts' minds with a quickness that could happen only with Americans--and millionaires.
Father Beckett sees and does things on the grand scale. Perhaps that's the secret of his success.
He was a miner once, he has told Brian and me. Mrs. Beckett was a district school teacher in
the Far West, where his fortune began. They married while he was still a poor man. But that's
by the way! I want to tell you now of his present, not of his past: and the working out of
our future from Brian's suggestion. Ten minutes after the planting of the seed a tree had grown
up, and was putting forth leaves and blossoms. Soon there will be fruit. And it will come into
existence ripe! I suppose Americans are like that. They manage their affairs with mental intensive
culture.

The Becketts are prepared to love me for Jim's sake; but Brian they worship as a supernatural
being. Mr. Beckett says he's saved them from themselves, and given them an incentive to live.
It was only yesterday that they answered my S. O. S. call. Now, the immediate future is settled,
for the four of us; settled for us together.

Father Beckett is asking leave to travel en automobile through the liberated lands. In each
town and village Jim's parents will decide on some work of charity or reconstruction in his
memory, above all in places he knew and loved. They can identify these by the letters he wrote
home from France before the war. His mother has kept every one. Through a presentiment of his
death, or because she couldn't part from them, she has brought along a budget of Jim's letters
from America. She carries them about in a little morocco hand-bag, as other women carry their
jewels.

The thought of Brian's plan is for the two old people like an infusion of blood in emptied
veins. They say that they would never have thought of it themselves, and if they had, they
would not have ventured to attempt it alone, ignorant of French as they are. But this is their
generous way of making us feel indispensable! They tell us we are needed to "see them through";
that without our help and advice they would be lost. Every word of kindness is a new stab for
me. Shall I grow callous as time goes on, and accept everything as though I really were what
they call me--their "daughter"? Or--I begin to think of another alternative. I'll turn to it
if I grow desperate.

The bright spot in my darkness is the joyful change in the Becketts. They feel that they've
regained their son; that Jim will be with them on their journey, and that they've a rendezvous
with him at "his château," when they reach the journey's end. They owe this happiness not to
me, but to Brian. As for him, he has the air of calm content that used to enfold him when he
packed his easel and knapsack for a tramp. Blindness isn't blindness for Brian. It's only another
kind of sight.

"I shan't see the wreck and misery you others will have to see," he says. "Horrors don't exist
any more for my eyes. I shall see the country in all its beauty as it was before the war. And
who knows but I shall find my dog?" (Brian lost the most wonderful dog in the world when he
was wounded.) He is always hoping to find it again!

He doesn't feel that he accepts charity from the Becketts. He believes, with a kind of modest
pride, that we're really indispensable. Afterward--when the tour is over--he thinks that "some
other scheme will open." I think so too. The Becketts will propose it, to keep us with them.
They will urge and argue, little dreaming how I drew them, with a grappling-hook resolve to
become a barnacle on their ship!

To-morrow we move to the Ritz. The Becketts insist. They want us near them for "consultations"!
This morning the formal request was made to the French authorities, and sent to headquarters.
On the fourth day the answer will come, and there's little doubt it will be "yes."

Can I bear to go on deceiving Jim Beckett's father and mother, or--shall I take the other alternative?
I must decide to-night.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since I wrote that last sentence I have been out, alone--to decide. Padre, it was in my mind
never to come back.

I walked a long, long way, to the Champs-Élysées. I was very tired, and I sat down--almost
dropped down--on a seat under the high canopy of chestnut trees. I could not think, but I had
a sense of expectation as if I were waiting for somebody who would tell me what to do. Paris
in the autumn twilight was a dream of beauty. Suddenly the dream seemed to open, and draw me
in. Some one far away, whom I had known and loved, was dreaming me! What I should decide about
the future, depended no longer on myself, but upon the dreamer. I didn't know who he was; but
I knew I should learn by and by. It was he who would come walking along the road of his own
dream, and take the vacant place by me on the seat.

Being in the dream, I didn't belong to the wonderful, war-time Paris which was rushing and
roaring around me. Military motors, and huge camions and ambulances were tearing up and down,
over the gray-satin surface of asphalt which used to be sacred to private autos and gay little
taxis bound for theatres and operas and balls. For every girl, or woman, or child, who passed,
there were at least ten soldiers: French soldiers in bleu horizon, Serbians in gray, Britishers
and a sprinkling of Americans in khaki. There was an undertone of music--a tune in the making--in
the tramp, tramp, of the soldiers' feet, the rumble and whirr of the cars-of-war, the voices
of women, the laughing cries of children.

I thought how simple it would be, to spring up and throw myself under one of the huge, rushing
camions: how easily the thing might be taken for an accident if I stage-managed it well. The
Becketts would be angels to Brian when I was gone! But the dreamer of the dream would not let
me stir hand or foot. He put a spell of stillness upon me; he shut me up in a transparent crystal
box, while outside all the world moved about its own affairs.

The mauve light of Paris nights filtered up from the gleaming asphalt, as if through a roof
of clouded glass over a subterranean ballroom lit with blue and purple lanterns. Street lamps,
darkly shaded for air-raids, trailed their white lights downward, long and straight, like first-communion
veils. Distant trees and shrubs and statues began to retreat into the dusk, as if withdrawing
from the sight of fevered human-folk to rest. Violet shadows rose in a tide, and poured through
the gold-green tunnel of chestnut trees, as sea-water pours into a cave. And the shadow-sea
had a voice like the whisper of waves. It said, "The dream is Jim Wyndham's dream." I felt
him near me--still in the dream. The one I had waited for had come.

I was free to move. The transparent box was broken.

       *       *       *       *       *

What the meaning of my impression was I don't know. But it must have a meaning, it was so strong
and real. It has made me change my mind about--the other alternative. I want to live, and find
my way back into that dream.

CHAPTER VII

Padre, you were right. My greatest comfort, as of old, is in turning to you.

I think you had a glimpse of the future when you left me that last message: "Write to me, in
the old way, just as if I were alive and had gone on a long journey."

When I lock my door, and get out this journal, it seems as if a second door--a door in the
wall--opened, to show you smiling the good smile which made your face different from any other.
I don't deserve the smile. Did I ever deserve it? Yet you gave it even when I was at my worst.
Now it seems to say, "In spite of all, I won't turn my back on you. I haven't given you up."

When I first began to write in this book (the purple-covered journal which was your last present
to me), I meant just to relieve my heart by putting on paper, as if for you, the story of my
wickedness. Now the story is told, I can't stop. I can't shut the door in the wall! I shall
go on, and on. I shall tell you all that happens, all I feel, and see, and think. That must
have been what you meant me to do.

When Brian and I were away from home a million years ago, before the war, we wrote you every
day, if only a few paragraphs, and posted our letters at the end of a week. You said those
letters were your "magic carpet," on which you travelled with us. Poor Padre, you'd no time
nor money for other travelling! You never saw France, till the war called you. And after a
few bleak months, that other great call came. I shall write to you about France, and about
myself, as I should have written if you were back at home.

First--about myself! A few pages ago I said that there was no one alive who could prove me
a liar, to the Becketts or Brian: that I was "safe--brutally safe." Well, I was mistaken. I
am not safe. But I will go back to our start.

Everyone warned the Becketts that they would get no automobile, no essence, and no chauffeur.
Yet they got all three, as magically as Cinderella got her coach and four. The French authorities
played fairy godmother, and waved a wand. Why not, when in return so much was to be done for
France?

The wand gave a permit for the whole front (counting in the American front!) from Lorraine
to Flanders. It produced a big gray car, and a French soldier to drive it. The soldier has
only one leg: but he can do more with that one than most men with two. Thus we set forth on
the journey Brian planned, the Becketts so grateful--poor darlings--for our company, that it
was hard to realize that I didn't belong.

It was a queer thought that we should be taking the road to Germany--we, of all people: yet
every road that leads east from Paris leads to Germany. And it was a wonderful thought, that
we should be going to the Marne.

Surely generations must pass before that name can be heard, even by children, without a thrill!
We said it over and over in the car: "The Marne--the Marne! We shall see the Marne, this autumn
of 1917."

Meanwhile the road was a dream-road. It had the unnatural quietness of dreams. In days of peace
it would have been choked with country carts bringing food to fill the wide-open mouth of Paris.
Now, the way to the capital was silent and empty, save for gray military motors and lumbering
army camions. The cheap bowling alleys and jerry-built restaurants of the suburbs seemed under
a spell of sleep. There were no men anywhere, except the very old, and boys of the "class"
of next year. Women swept out the gloomy shops: women drove omnibuses: women hawked the morning
papers. Outside Paris we were stopped by soldiers, appearing from sentry-boxes: our papers
were scanned; almost reluctantly we were allowed to pass on, to the Secret Region of Crucifix
Corner, which spying eyes must not see--the region of aeroplane hangars, endless hangars, lost
among trees, and melting dimly into a dim horizon, their low, rounded roofs "camouflaged" in
a confusion of splodged colours.

There was so much to see--so much which was abnormal, and belonged to war--that we might have
passed without glancing at a line of blue water, parallel with our road at a little distance,
had not Brian said, "Have we come in sight of the Ourcq? We ought to be near it now. Don't
you know, the men of the Marne say the men of the Ourcq did more than they to save Paris?"

The Becketts had hardly heard of the Ourcq. As for me, I'd forgotten that part in the drama
of September, 1914. I knew that there was an Ourcq--a canal, or a river, or both, with a bit
of Paris sticking to its banks: knew it vaguely, as one knows and forgets that one's friends'
faces have profiles. But Brian's words brought back the whole story to my mind in a flash.
I remembered how Von Kluck was trapped like a rat, in the couloir of the Ourcq, by the genius
of Gallieni, and the glorious coöperation of General Manoury and the dear British "contemptibles"
under General French.

It was a desperate adventure that--to try and take the Germans in the flank; and Gallieni's
advisers told him there were not soldiers enough in his command to do it. "Then we'll do it
with sailors!" he said. "But," urged an admiral, "my sailors are not trained to march."

"They will march without being trained," said the defender of the capital. "I've been in China
and Madagascar, I know what sailors can do on land."

"Even so, there will not be enough men," answered the pessimists.

"We'll fill the gaps with the police," said the general, inspired perhaps by Sainte-Geneviève.

So the deed was dared; and in a panic at sight of the mysteriously arriving troops, Von Kluck
retreated from the Ourcq to the Aisne. It was when he heard how the trick had been played and
won by sheer bravado, that he cried out in rage, "How could I count on such a coup? Not another
military governor in a hundred would have risked throwing his whole force sixty kilometres
from its base. How should I guess what a dare-devil fool Gallieni would turn out? But if Trochu,
in '70, had been the same kind of a fool, we should never have got Paris!"

Half the ghosts in history seemed to haunt this Route de Strasbourg, and to meet us as we passed.
You know how you see the characters in a moving-picture play, and behind them the "fade ins"
that show their life history, visions that change on the screen like patterns in a kaleidoscope?
So on this meadow-bordered road, peaceful in the autumn sunlight, we saw with our minds' eyes
the soldiers of 1914: behind them the soldiers of 1870: farther in the background Napoleon
the Great with his men: and fading into the distance, processions of kings who had marched
along the Marne, since the day Sainte-Geneviève ordered the gates of Paris to be shut in the
face of Attila.

Such a gay, gold-sequined blue-green ribbon of a river it looked! Almost impudent in gaiety,
as if it wished to forget and be happy. But souls and rivers never really forget. When they
know what the Marne knows, they are gay only on the surface!

It was at Meaux where we had our first close meeting with the Marne: Meaux, the city nearest
Paris "on the Marne front," where the Germans came: and even after three years you can still
see on the left bank of the river traces of trench--shallow, pathetic holes dug in wild haste.
We might have missed them, we creatures with mere eyes, if Brian hadn't asked, "Can't you see
the trenches?" Then we saw them, of course, half lost under rank grass, like dents in a green
velvet cushion made by a sleeper who has long ago waked and walked away.

From a distance the glistening gray roofs of Meaux were like a vast crowd of dark-winged doves;
but as we ran into the town it opened out into dignified importance, able to live up to its
thousand years of history. There was no work for the Becketts there, we thought, for the Germans
had time to do little material harm to Meaux in 1914: and at first sight there seemed to be
no need of alms. But Jim had loved Meaux. His mother took from her blue morocco bag his letter
describing the place, mentioning how he had met the bishop through a French friend.

"Do you think," she asked me timidly, "we might call on the bishop? Who knows but he remembers
our Jimmy?"

"He's a famous bishop," said Brian. "I've heard poilus from Meaux tell stories of how the Germans
were forced to respect him, he was so brave and fine. He took the children of the town under
his protection, and no harm came to one of them. There were postcard photographs going round
early in the war, of the bishop surrounded by boys and girls--like a benevolent Pied Piper.
It's kindness he's famous for, as well as courage, so I'm sure we may call."

Near the beautiful old cathedral we passed a priest, and asked him where to find the bishop's
house. "You need not go so far; here he comes," was the answer. We looked over our shoulders,
almost guiltily, and there indeed he was. He had been in the cathedral with two French officers,
and in another instant the trio would have turned a corner. Our look and the priest's gesture
told the bishop that we were speaking of him. He paused, and Mr. Beckett jumped out of the
stopped car, agile as a boy in his excitement.

"Oh, I forgot, I can't talk French! Mary, you must see me through!" he pleaded.

I hurried to the rescue, and together we walked up to the bishop. Off came Mr. Beckett's hat;
and both officers saluted us. One was a general, the other a colonel.

If I'd had time to rehearse, I might have done myself some credit. As it was, I stammered out
some sort of explanation and introduced Jim's father.

"I remember young Monsieur Beckett," the bishop said. "He was not one to be forgotten! Besides,
he was generous to Meaux. He left a noble present for our poor. And now, you say, he has given
his life for France? What is there I can do to prove our gratitude? You have come to Meaux
because of his letters? Wait a few minutes, till these brave messieurs have gone, and I myself
will show you the cathedral. Oh, you need not fear! It will be a pleasure."

He was as good as his word, and better. Not only did he show the splendid Gothic cathedral,
pride of the "fair Île-de-France," but the bishop's house as well. Bossuet had lived there,
the most famous bishop Meaux had in the past. It was dramatic to enter his study, guided by
the most famous bishop of the present; to see in such company the room where Bossuet penned
his denunciation of the Protestants, and then the long avenue of yews where he used to walk
in search of inspiration. We saw his tomb, too--in the cathedral (yes, I believe Brian saw
it more clearly than we!), one of those grand tombs they gave prelates in the days of Louis
XIV: and when the Becketts had followed Jim's example in generosity, we bade adieu to the--oh,
ever so much kindlier heir of the great controversialist. I'm afraid, to tell the truth, the
little old lady cared more to know that her Jim's favourite cheese--Brie--was made in Meaux,
than anything else in the town's history. Nevertheless, she listened with a charmed air to
Brian's story of Meaux's great romance--as she listens to all Brian's stories. It was you,
Padre, who told it to Brian, and to me, one winter night when we'd been reading about Gaston,
de Foix, "Gaston le Bel." Our talk of his exploits brought us to Meaux, at the time of the
Jacquerie, in the twelfth century. The common people had revolted against the nobles who oppressed
them, and all the Île-de-France--adorable name!--seethed with civil war. In Meaux was the Duchess
of Orleans, with three hundred great ladies, most of them beautiful and young. The peasants
besieged the Duchess there, and she and her lovely companions were put to sore straits, when
suddenly arrived brave Gaston to save them. I don't quite know why he took the trouble to come
so far, from his hill-castle near the Spanish frontier, but most likely he loved one of the
shut-up ladies. Or perhaps it was simply for love of all womanhood, since Gaston was so chivalrous
that Froissart said, "I never saw one like him of personage, nor of so fair form, nor so well
made."

From Meaux our road (we were going to make Nancy our centre and stopping place) followed the
windings of the green ribbon Marne to Château-Thierry, on the river's right bank. There's a
rather thrilling ruin, that gave the town its name, and dominates it still--the ruin of a castle
which Charles Martel built for a young King Thierry. The legend says that this boy differed
from the wicked kings Thierry, sons and grandsons of the Frankish Clovis; that he wanted to
be good, but "Fate" would not let him. Perhaps it's a judgment on those terrible Thierry kings,
who left to their enemies only the earth round their habitations--"because it couldn't be carried
away"--that the Germans have left ruins in Château-Thierry more cruel than those of the crumbling
castle. In seven September days they added more monuments historiques than a thousand years
had given the ancient Marne city.

Jim Beckett had written his mother all about the town, and sent postcard pictures of its pride,
the fortress-like, fifteenth-century church with a vast tower set upon a height. He liked Château-Thierry
because Jean de la Fontaine was born there, and called it "a peaceful-looking place, just right
for the dear fable-maker, who was so child-like and sweet-natured, that he deserved always
to be happy, instead of for ever in somebody's debt." A soldier having seen the wasted country
at the front, might still describe Château-Thierry as a "peaceful-looking place." But it was
the first glimpse the Becketts had had of war's abominable destruction. I took up nursing in
the south of France before the Zeppelins made much visible impression on London; and as I volunteered
for a "contagious" hospital, I've lived an isolated life far from all horrors save those in
my own ward, and the few I saw when I went to nurse Brian. Perhaps it was well for us to begin
with Château-Thierry, whose gaping wounds are not mortal, and to miss tragic Varreddes. Had
Sermaize-les-Bains, which burst upon us later, been our first experience, the shock might have
been too great for Mrs. Beckett. As it was, we worked slowly to the climax. Yet even so, we
travelled on with a hideous mirage of broken homes, of intimacies brutally laid bare, floating
between the landscape and our eyes. We could not get rid of this mirage, could not brush it
away, though the country was friendly and fair of face as a child playing in a waterside meadow.
The crudely new bridges that crossed the Marne were the only open confessions of what the river
had suffered. But the Marne spirit had known wars enough to learn "how sweet it is to live,
forgetting." With her bits of villages scattered like strewn flowers on her green flood, she
floats in a dream of her adventurous past and the glorious future which she has helped to win
for France.

It was hard to realize that the tiny island villages and hamlets on the level shores had seen
the Germans come and go; that under the gray roofs--furry-soft as the backs of Maltese cats--hearts
had beaten in agony of fear; that along the white road, with its double row of straight trees
like an endless army on parade, weeping fugitives had fled.

We were not aiming to reach Nancy that night, so we paused at Épernay. The enemy behaved better
there than in most Marne towns, perhaps because Wagner once lived in it, or, more likely, under
the soothing influence of Épernay's champagne, which has warmed the cockles of men's hearts
since a bishop of the ninth century made it famous by his praise. Nevertheless, there are ruins
to see, for the town was bombarded by the Germans after they were turned out. All the quarter
of the rich was laid waste: and the vast "Fabrique de Champagne" of Mercier, with its ornamental
frieze of city names, is silent to this day, its proud façade of windows broken. Not a big
building of the town, not a neighbouring château of a "Champagne baron" has a whole window-pane
visible, though three years have rolled on since the cannonading did its work! Nowadays glass
is as dear as diamonds in France, and harder to get.

Outside Champagnopolis, in the wide wooden village of hospital huts, a doctor told us a war
ghost story. One night the Germans made a great haul of champagne, of a good year, in a castle
near by. They had knocked off the heads of many bottles, naming each for a French general of
yesterday or to-day, when some officer who knew more history than the rest remembered that
Henri IV had taken Épernay in 1592. He named his bottle for Henri de Navarre, and harangued
his comrades on the superiority of Wilhelm von Hohenzollern. As the speechmaker cracked the
neck with his sword, the bottle burst in a thousand pieces, drenching everyone with wine. A
bit of glass struck the electric lamp over the table, and out went the light. For an instant
the room was black. Then a white ray flickered on the wall, as if thrown through the window
by a searchlight. Out of its glimmer stepped a man, with a long, laughing face and a pointed
beard. Round his neck was a high ruff. He wore a doublet of velvet, and shining silk hose.
In his hand was a silver goblet, frothing over the top with champagne. "He drinks best who
drinks last!" cried he in French, and flung the goblet at the face of him who named the bottle.
At the same second there was a great explosion, and only one soldier escaped; he who told the
story.

Think, Padre, it was near Châlons that Attila was defeated, and forced to fly from France for
ever! I ought to say, Attila the first, since the self-named Attila II hasn't yet been beaten
back beyond the Rhine.

We--you, and Brian and I--used to have excited arguments about reincarnation. You know now
which of us was right! But I cling to the theory of the spiral, in evolution of the soul--the
soul of a man or the soul of the world. It satisfies my sense of justice and my reason both,
to believe that we must progress, being made for progression; but that we evolve upward slowly,
with a spiral motion which brings us at certain periods, as we rise, directly above the last
earth-phase in our evolution. If it's true, here, after nearly thirteen centuries, are the
Huns overrunning Europe once more. Learned Huns, scientific Huns, but always Huns, repeating
history on a higher scale, barbarously bent on pulling down the liberty of the world by the
power of brute force. Again they're destined to be conquered as before, at a far bigger price.
What will the next turn of their spiral bring, I wonder? A vast battle of intellect, perhaps,
when wars of blood have been forgotten. And I wonder, too, where has Attila been, since he
was beaten in this Champagne country of the Marne, and died two years later at his wedding-feast
in Hungary!

Did he appear in our world again, in the form of some great, cruel general or king, or did
his soul rest until it was reincarnated in the form that claims his name to-day?

I could scarcely concentrate upon Châlons, though it's a noble town, crowded with grand old
buildings. My mind was busily travelling back, back into history, as Peter Ibbetson travelled
in his prison-dreams. It didn't stop on its way to see the city capitulate to the Allies in
1814, just one hundred years before the great new meaning came into that word "allies." I ran
past the brave fifteenth-century days, when the English used to attack Châlons-sur-Marne, hoping
to keep their hold on France. I didn't even pause for Saint-Bernard, preaching the Crusade
in the gorgeous presence of Louis VII and his knights. It was Attila who lured me down, down
into his century, buried deep under the sands of Time. I heard the ring of George Meredith's
words: "Attila, my Attila!" But I saw the wild warrior Attila, fighting in Champagne, not the
dead man adjured by Ildico, his bride. I saw him "short, swarthy, broad-chested," in his crude
armour, his large head, "early gray," lifted like a wolf's at bay. I saw his fierce, ugly face
with its snub nose and little, deep-set eyes, flushed in the fury of defeat as he ordered the
famous screen of chariots to be piled up between him and the Romano-Gauls. I saw him and his
men profiting by the strange barrier, and the enemy's exhaustion, to escape beyond the Rhine,
with eyes yearning toward the country they were to see no more.

History calls that battle "one of the decisive battles of the world," yet it lasted only a
day, and engaged from a hundred and seventy-four thousand to three hundred thousand men. Oh,
the spiral of battles has climbed high since then!

I think I should have had a presentiment of the war if I'd lived at Châlons, proud city of
twenty-two bridges and the Canal Rhine-Marne. The water on stormy days must have whispered,
"They are coming. Take care!"

At Vitry-le-François there is also that same sinister canal which leads from the Marne to the
Rhine, the Rhine to the Marne. The name has a wicked sound in these days--Rhine-Marne; and
at Vitry-le-François of all places. The men from over the Rhine destroyed as much as they had
time to destroy of the charming old town planned by Francis I, and named for him. All the villages
round about the new Huns broke to pieces, like the toy towns of children: Revigny, sprayed
from hand pumps with petrol, and burnt to the ground: Sermaize-les-Bains, loved by Romans and
Saracens, obliterated; women drowned in the river by laughing German soldiers, deep down under
yellow water-lilies, which mark their resting place to-day: everywhere, through the fields
and forests, low wooden crosses in the midst of little votive gardens, telling their silent tale.

Ah, but it is good that Mother Beckett saw Château-Thierry first, or she might have covered
her eyes and begged to go back to Paris! Here all speaks of death and desolation, save the
busy little hut-villages of the Quakers. The "Friends" quietly began their labour of love before
the Battle of the Marne was ended, and they're "carrying on" still. The French translate them
affectionately into "les Amis."

It was at Bar-le-Duc that I met disaster face to face in so strange a way that it needs a whole
letter to tell you what happened.

CHAPTER VIII

There were so many things to see by the way, and so many thoughts to think about them, that
Father Beckett and Brian decided on an all night stop at Bar-le-Duc. The town hadn't had an
air raid for weeks, and it looked a port of peace. As well imagine enemy aeroplanes over the
barley-sugar house of the witch in the enchanted forest, as over this comfortable home of jam-makers!

"Jim always asked for currant jam of Bar-le-Duc on his birthdays, ever since he was a little,
little boy," Mrs. Beckett remembered aloud. "And even when he was grown up! But then, he wouldn't
wait for birthdays. He wanted it every day for breakfast; and for tea at those grand New York
hotels, where I wouldn't go without him, any sooner than in a lion's den. Oh, it will be nice
to stay at Bar-le-Duc! If there's been a jam factory blown up, we'll help build it again, to
please Jim."

Father Beckett was shrewdly of opinion that the jam factories could take care of themselves,
which rather disappointed his wife. She was vaguely disappointed too, in Bar-le-Duc. I think
she expected to smell a ravishing fragrance of Jim's favourite confiture as we entered the
town. It had been a tiring day for her, with all our stops and sightseeing, and she had less
appetite for history than for jam. We had passed through lovely country since Châlons, decorated
with beautiful tall trees, high box hedges, and distant, rolling downs golden with grain and
sunlight. Also, whenever our road drew near the railway, we'd caught exciting glimpses of long
trains "camouflaged" in blurry greens and blues, to hide themselves from aeroplanes. Nevertheless,
Mother Beckett had begun to droop. Her blue eyes hardly brightened to interest when Brian said
we were in the famous region of the Meuse, part of the Austrian Empire in Charlemagne's day:
that somewhere hereabout Wittekind, the enslaved Saxon, used to work "on the land," not dreaming
of the kingly house of Capet he was to found for France, and that Bar-le-Duc itself would be
our starting-point for Verdun, after Nancy and the "Lorraine Front."

For her Bar-le-Duc had always represented jam, endless jam, loved by Jim, and talk of the dukes
of Bar brought no thrill to Jim's mother. She cared more to see the two largest elms in France
of which Jim had written, than any ruins of ducal dwellings or tombs of Lorraine princes, or
even the house where Charles-Edouard the Pretender lived for years.

Fortunately there was a decent hotel, vaguely open in the upper town on the hill, with a view
over the small tributary river Ornain, on which the capital city of the Meuse is built. One
saw the Rhine-Marne Canal, too, and the picturesque roofs of old fifteenth-century houses,
huddled together in lower Bar-le-Duc, shut in among the vine-draped valleys of Champagne.

As we left the car and went into the hotel (I lingering behind to help Brian) I noticed another
car behind us. It was more like a taxi-cab than a brave, free-born automobile, but it had evidently
come a long way, as it was covered with dust, and from its rather ramshackle roof waved a Red
Cross flag.

In the good days before the war I should have thought it the most natural thing on earth if
a procession of twenty motors had trailed us. But war has put an end to joy-rides. Besides,
since the outskirts of Paris, we had been in the zone de guerre, constantly stopped and stared
at by sentinels. The only cars we passed, going east or west, were occupied by officers, or
crowded with poilus, therefore the shabby little taxi became of almost startling interest.
I looked back, and saw that it was slowing down close behind our imposing auto, from which
a few small pieces of luggage for the night were being removed.

The Red Cross travellers were evidently impatient. They did not wait for our chauffeur to drive
away. The conductor of the car jumped down and opened the door of his nondescript vehicle.
I made out, under a thick coat of dust, that he wore khaki of some sort, and a cap of military
shape which might be anything from British to Belgian. He gave a hand to a woman in the car--a
woman in nurse's dress. A thick veil covered her face, but her figure was girlish. I noticed
that she was extremely small and slim in her long, dust-dimmed blue cloak: a mere doll of a
creature.

The man's back was turned toward me as he aided the nurse; but suddenly he flung a glance over
his shoulder, and stared straight at me, as if he had expected to find me there.

He was rather short, and too squarely built for his age, which might be twenty-eight or thirty
at most; but his great dark eyes were splendid, so gorgeously bright and significant that they
held mine for a second or two. This vexed me, and I turned away with as haughty an air as could
be put on at an instant's notice.

The hotel had no private sitting rooms, but the landlord offered Mr. Beckett for our use a
small salle de lecture, adjourning the salon public. There were folding doors between, for
a wonder with a lock that worked. By the time we'd bathed, and dressed again, it was the hour
for dinner, and Mr. Beckett suggested dining in our own "parlour," as he called it.

The landlord himself brought a menu, which Mother Beckett accepted indifferently up to the
entremets "omelette au rhum." This she wished changed for something--anything--made with Jim's
favourite jam. "He would want us to eat it at Bar-le-Duc," she said, with her air of taking
Jim's nearness and interest in our smallest acts for granted.

So "omelette à la confiture de groseilles" was ordered; and just as we had come to the end
of it and our meal, some one began to play the piano in the public drawing room next door.
At the first touch, I recognized a master hand. The air was from Puccini's "La Tosca"--third
act, and a moment later a man's voice caught it up--a voice of velvet, a voice of the heart--an
Italian voice.

We all stopped eating as if we'd been struck by a spell. We hardly breathed. The music had
in it the honey of a million flowers distilled into a crystal cup. It was so sweet that it
hurt--hurt horribly and deliciously, as only Italian music can hurt. Other men sing with their
brains, with their souls, but Italians sing with their blood, their veins, the core of their
hearts. They are their songs, as larks are.

The voice brought Jim to me, and snatched him away again. It set him far off at a hopeless
distance, across steep purple chasms of dreamland. It dragged my heart out, and then poured
it full, full of an unknown elixir of life and love, which was mine, yet out of reach forever.
It showed me my past hopes and future sorrows floating on the current of my own blood like
ships of a secret argosy sailing through the night to some unknown goal. So now, when I have
told you what it did to me, you will know that voice was like no voice I ever heard, except
Caruso's. It was like his--astonishingly like; and hardly had the last note of "Mario's" song
of love and death dropped into silence when the singer began anew with one of Caruso's own
Neapolitan folk-songs, "Mama Mia."

I had forgotten Mother and Father Beckett--even Brian--everyone except my lost Jim Wyndham
and myself. But suddenly a touch on my hand made me start. The little old lady's, small, cool
fingers were on mine, "My daughter, what do the words mean?" she asked. "What is that boy saying
to his mama?" Her eyes were blue lakes of unshed tears, for the thought of her son knocked
at her heart.

"It isn't a boy who sings, dear," I said. "It's supposed to be a young man who tries to tell
his mother all about his love, but it is too big for any words he can find. He says she must
remember how she felt herself when she was in love, and then she will understand what's in
his heart."

"Oh, it's wonderful!" she whispered. "How young it sounds! Can it be a man singing? It seems
too beautiful for anything but a gramophone!"

We broke out laughing, and the little lady blushed in shame. "I mean, it's like one of the
great singers they make records of," she explained. "There, he's stopped. Oh, James, don't
let him go! We must hear him again. Couldn't you go next door and thank him? Couldn't you beg
him to sing some more?"

An Englishman would sooner have died a painful death then obey; but, unabashed, the American
husband flung wide open the folding doors.

At the piano sat the short, square-built young man of the Red Cross taxi. Leaning with both
elbows on the instrument stood the doll-like figure of his companion, the girl in nurse's dress.
His back and her profile were turned our way, but at the sound of the opening door he wheeled
on the stool, and both stared at Mr. Beckett. Also they stared past him at me. Why at me, and
not the others, I could never have guessed then.

Our little room was lit by red-shaded candles on the table, while the salon adjoining blazed
with electricity. As the doors opened, it was like the effect of a flashlight for a photograph.
I saw that the man and the girl resembled each other in feature; nevertheless, there was a
striking difference between the two. It wasn't only that he was squarely built, with a short
throat, and a head shaped like Caruso's, whereas she was slight, with a small, high-held head
on a slender neck. The chief difference lay in expression. The man--who now looked younger
than I had thought--had a dark, laughing face, gay and defiant as a Neapolitan street boy.
It might be evil, it might be good. The girl, who could be no more than twenty, was sullen
in her beauty as a thundercloud.

The singer jumped up, and took a few steps forward, while the girl stood still and gloomed.

"I hope I didn't disturb you?" The question was asked of Mr. Beckett, and thrown lightly as
a shuttlecock over the old man's head to us in the next room. It was asked in English, with
a curiously winning accent, neither Italian nor Irish, but suggesting both.

"Disturbed!" Father Beckett explained that his errand was to beg for more music. "It's like
being at the opera!" was the best compliment he had to give.

The young man smiled as if a light had been turned on behind his eyes and his brilliant white
teeth. "Delighted!" he said. "I can't sing properly nowadays--shell shock. I suppose I never
shall again. But I do my best."

The words were of no great depth or worth, and the music was too intentionally heart-wringing
to be sincerely fine, yet sung by that man's voice, the piano softly touched by his hands,
the poor old song took my self-control and shivered it like thin glass. Tears burst from Mrs.
Beckett's eyes, and she hid her face on my shoulder, sobbing beneath her breath: "Oh, Jim--Jim!"

When the singer had finished he looked at her, not in surprise, but thoughtfully. "Perhaps
I oughtn't to have sung that stuff, Mr. Beckett," he said. "But your son liked it at St. Raphael.
We knew each other there, very well."

As he spoke his eyes turned to me, deliberately, with meaning. There was a gentle, charming
smile on his southern face, but I knew, as if he had told me in so many words, that my secret
was his.

Involuntarily I glanced at the girl. She had not moved. She stood as before, her elbows on
the piano, her small face propped between her hands. But she, too, was looking at me. She had
no expression whatever. Her eyes told as little as two shut windows with blinds drawn down.
The fancy flashed through me that a judge might look thus waiting to hear the verdict of the
jury in a murder case.

"These two have followed us on purpose to denounce me," I thought. Yet it seemed a stupidly
melodramatic conclusion, like the climax of a chapter in an old-fashioned, sentimental story.
Besides, the man--evidently the leader--had not at all the face of Nemesis. He looked a merry,
happy-go-lucky Italian, only a little subdued at the moment by the pathos of his own nightingale
voice and the memory of Jim Beckett. I was bewildered. My reason did not know what to make
of him. But my instinct warned me of danger.

Mother Beckett dried her eyes with one of her dainty handkerchiefs which always smell like
lavender and grass pinks--her leitmotif in perfume. "You knew our Jim?" she exclaimed, choking
back tears. "Why, then, perhaps you and Mary--Miss O'Malley----"

What would have happened if she had finished her sentence I shall never know, for just then
came a crash as if the house were falling. Window-glass shivered. The hotel shook as though
in an earthquake. Out went the electric light, leaving only our candles aglow under red shades.

Bar-le-Duc was in for an air raid.

CHAPTER IX

For a moment we thought the house had been struck by a bomb, and were astonished that it stood.
In the uproar of explosions and crashings and jinglings, the small silence of our room--with
its gay chrysanthemums and shaded candles--was like that of a sheltered oasis in a desert storm.

Not one of us uttered a sound. Father Beckett took his wife in his arms, and held her tight,
her face hidden in his coat. Brian had not even got up from his chair by the table. He'd lighted
a cigarette, and continued to smoke calmly, a half-smile on his face, as if the bombardment
carried him back to life in the trenches. But the beautiful sightless eyes searched for what
they could not see: and I knew that I was in his thoughts. I would have gone to him, after
the first petrifying instant of surprise, but the singing-man stopped me. "Are you afraid?"
I heard his voice close to my ear. Perhaps he shouted. But in the din it was as if he whispered.

"No!" I flung back. "Had you not better go and take care of your sister?"

He laughed. "My sister! Look at her! Does she need taking care of?"

The girl had come from the suddenly darkened salon into our room. As he spoke, she walked to
the table, helped herself to a cigarette from Brian's silver case which lay open, and asked
its owner for a light. It struck me that she did not realize his blindness.

Certainly the young woman did not "need taking care of." Nor did I! Deliberately I turned my
back upon the man; but he snatched at the end of a scarf I wore. "No one's looking," he said.
"Take this--for your own sake." And he thrust into a little outside pocket of my dress a folded
bit of paper. Then he let me go, stepping back to prevent my returning the note.

For a second I hesitated, not knowing which of two evils to choose; but the woman who hesitates
is inevitably lost. Before I could make up my mind, the door opened and the landlord appeared,
apologizing for the raid as if it had been an accident of his kitchen. We must have no fear.
All danger was over. The avion--only one!--had been chased out of our neighbourhood. The noise
we heard now was merely shrapnel fired by anti-aircraft guns. We would not be disturbed again,
that he'd guarantee from his experience!

Mrs. Beckett emerged from her husband's coat. Mr. Beckett laughed, and patting his wife's shoulder,
complimented her courage. "I'm not sure we haven't behaved pretty well for our first air raid,"
he said. "The rest of you were fine! But I suppose even you ladies have seen some of these
shows before? As for you, Brian, my boy, you're a soldier. What we've been through must seem
a summer shower to you. And you, sir"--he turned to the singing-man--"I think you mentioned
you'd had shell shock----"

"Yes," the other answered quickly. "It cost me my voice."

"Cost you your voice?" Father Beckett echoed. "If it was better than it is now, why, it must
have been a marvel! We're ignorant in the music line, my wife and I, so if we ought to know
who you are----"

The young man laughed. "Oh, don't be afraid of hurting my feelings! If you were an Italian,
or a Britisher--but an American! I sang in New York only part of last winter, and then I--came
over here, like everyone else. My name is Julian O'Farrell, but my mother was an Italian of
Naples, once a prima donna. She wished me to make my professional début as Giulio di Napoli."

The name appeared to mean nothing for the Becketts, but instantly I knew who the man was, if
little about him. I remembered reading of the sensation he created in London the summer that
Brian and I tramped through France and Belgium. The next I heard was that he had "gone back"
to Italy. I had of course supposed him to be an Italian. But now he boasted--or confessed--that
he was an Irishman. Why, then, had he left England for Italy when the war broke out? Why had
he been singing in New York after Italy joined the Allies? Above all, what had happened since,
to put him on my track, with a Red Cross flag and a taxi-cab?

These questions asked themselves in my head, while I could have counted "One--two--three."
Meantime, Brian had spoken to the girl, and she had answered shortly, in words I could not
hear, but with a sullen, doubtful look, like a small trapped creature that snaps at a friendly
hand. The landlord was helping a white-faced waiter to clear a place on the table for a tray
of coffee and liqueurs; and outside the noise of shrapnel had died in the distance. The air-raid
incident was closed. What next?

"You'll both have coffee with us, won't you, Signor di Napoli--or Mr. O'Farrell? Or should
I say Lieutenant or Captain?" Father Beckett was urging. "You were a friend of our son's, and
my wife and I----"

"Plain Mister O'Farrell it is," the other broke in. "Thanks, it would be a pleasure to stay,
but it's best to refuse, I'm sure, for my sister's sake. You see by her dress what her work
has been, and she's on leave because she's tired out. She faints easily--and what with the
air raid--maybe you'll let us pay our respects before you leave to-morrow? Then we'll tell
you all you want to know. Anyhow, we may be going on for some time in your direction. I saw
by a Paris paper a few days ago you were making a tour of the Fronts, beginning at the Lorraine
end."

His eyes were on me as he spoke, bright with imp-like malice. He looked so like a mischievous
schoolboy that it was hard to take him seriously. Yet everything warned me to do so, and his
allusion to the Paris newspapers explained much. For the second time a reporter had caught
Father Beckett, and got out of him the statement that "My dead son's fiancée, Miss Mary O'Malley,
who's been nursing in a 'contagious' hospital near St. Raphael, will be with us: and her brother."

So that was how the man had heard about me, and for some reason found it worth while to follow,
waving the sword of Damocles! His note burned my pocket. And I burned to know what it said.
No doubt it would explain why he did not cut off my head at once, and have it over!

"I think," he was going on, "that the sooner I can get this poor little girl" (a tap on his
sister's shoulder) "to her room and to bed the better it will be."

Any one apparently less likely to faint, or less in need of rest, than the "poor little girl"
indicated, it would be difficult to find, I thought: but the kindly Becketts were the last
creatures to be critical. They sympathized, and changed their invitation from after-dinner
coffee to breakfast at nine. This was accepted by O'Farrell for himself and his sister, and
taking the girl's arm, the ex-singer swept her off in a dramatic exit.

When they had gone, it was Brian who asked me if I had known them in the south; and because
no incentive could make me lie to Brian, I promptly answered "No." As I spoke, it occurred
to me that now, if ever, was the moment when I might still succeed in spoking the wheel of
Mr. and Miss O'Farrell before that wheel had time to crush me. I could throw doubt upon their
good faith. I could hint that, if they had really been doing Red Cross or other work at St.
Raphael, I should certainly have heard of them. But I held my peace--partly through qualms
of conscience, partly through fear. Unless the man had proofs to bring of his bona fides where
Jim Beckett was concerned, he would scarcely have followed us to claim acquaintance with the
parents and confound the alleged fiancée. That he had followed us on purpose I was sure. Not
for a second did I believe that the arrival of the taxi-cab in our wake was a coincidence!

We drank our coffee, talking of the raid and of the O'Farrells, and--as always--of Jim. Then
Father Beckett noticed that his wife was pale. "She looks as if she needed bed a good sight
more than that little girl did," he said in the simple, homely way I've learned to love.

Presently we had all bidden each other good-night, even Brian and I. Then--in my own room--I
was free to take that folded bit of paper from my pocket.

CHAPTER X

To my surprise, there were only three lines, scribbled in pencil.

"Come to the salon for a talk when the rest of your party have gone to bed. I'll be waiting,
and won't keep you long."

"Impudent brute!" I said out aloud. But a moment later I had decided to keep the appointment
and learn the worst. Needs must, when the devil drives!--if you're in the power of the devil.
I was. And, alas! through my fault, so was Brian. After going so far, I could not afford to
be thrown back without a struggle; and I went downstairs prepared to fight.

It was not yet late; only a few minutes after ten o'clock; and though the Becketts and Brian
were on the road to sleep, the hotel was awake, and even lively in its wakefulness. The door
of the public salon stood open, and the electric light had come on again. At the table, in
the centre of the room, sat Mr. Julian O'Farrell, alias Giulio di Napoli, conspicuously interested
in an illustrated paper. He jumped up at sight of me, and smiled a brilliant smile of welcome,
but did not speak. A sudden, obstinate determination seized me to thwart him, if he meant to
force the first move upon me. I bowed coolly, as one acknowledges the existence of an hotel
acquaintance, and passing to the other end of the long table, picked up a Je Sais Tout of a
date two years before the war.

I did not sit down, but assumed the air of hovering for a moment on my way elsewhere. This
manoeuvre kept the enemy on his feet; and as the cheap but stately clock on the mantel ticked
out second after second, I felt nervously inclined to laugh, despite the seriousness of my
situation. I bit my lip hard to frighten away a smile that would have spoilt everything. "If
it goes on like this for an hour," I said to myself, "I won't open my mouth!"

Into the midst of this vow broke an explosion of laughter that made me start as if it announced
a new bombardment. I looked up involuntarily, and met the dark Italian eyes sparkling with
fun. "I beg your pardon!" the man gurgled. "I was wondering which is older, your Je Sais Tout
or my Illustration? Mine's the Christmas number of 1909."

"Yours has the advantage in age," I replied, without a smile. "Mine goes back only to 1912."

"Ah! I'm glad to score that one point," he said, still laughing. "Dear Miss O'Malley, won't
you please sit down? I'm a lazy fellow, and I'm so tired of standing! Now, don't begin by being
cross with me because I call you 'dear.' If you realized what I've done for you, and what I'm
ready to do, you'd say I'd earned that right, to begin with!"

"I don't understand you at all, or why you should claim any right," I hedged. But I sat down,
and he sank so heavily into an ancient, plush-covered chair that a spray of dust flew up from
the cushions.

"I'm afraid I'm rather too fat!" he apologized. "But I always lose flesh motoring, so you'll
see a change for the better, I hope--in a week or two. I expect our lines will be cast in the
same places for some time to come--if you're as wise as--as you are pretty. If not, I'm afraid
you and Mr. O'Malley won't be long with our party. I say, you are gorgeous when you're in a
rage! But why fly into a fury? You told me you didn't understand things. I'm doing my best
to explain."

"Then your best is very bad," I said.

"Sorry! I'll begin another way. Listen! I'm going to be perfectly frank. Why not? We're birds
of a feather. And the pot can't call the kettle black. Maybe my similes are a bit mixed, but
you'll excuse that, as we're both Irish. Why, my being Irish--and Italian--is an explanation
of me in itself, if you'd take the trouble to study it. But look here! I don't want you to
take any trouble. I don't want to give you any trouble. Now do you begin to see light?"

"No!" I threw at him.

"I don't believe you, dear girl. You malign your own wits. You pay yourself worse compliments
than I'd let any one else do! But I promised not to keep you long. And if I break my promise
it will be your fault--because you're not reasonable. You're the pot and I'm the kettle, because
we're both tarred with the same brush. By the way, are pots and kettles blacked with tar? They
look it. But that's a detail. My sister and I are just as dead broke and down and out as you
and your brother are. I mean, as you were, and as you may be again, if you make mistakes."

"I'd rather not bring my brother into this discussion," I said. "He's too far above it--and
us. You can do as you choose about your sister."

"I can make her do as I choose," he amended. "That's where my scheme came in, and where it
still holds good. When I read the news of Pa and Ma Beckett arriving in Paris, it jumped into
my head like a--like a----"

"Toad," I supplied the simile.

"I was leaving it to you," said he. "I thought you ought to know, for by a wonderful coincidence
which should draw us together, the same great idea must have occurred to you--in the same way,
and on the same day. I bet you the first hundred francs I get out of old Beckett that it was so!"

"Mr. O'Farrell, you're a Beast!" I cried.

"And you're a Beauty. So there we are, cast for opposite parts in the same play. Queer how
it works out! Looks like the hand of Providence. Don't say what you want to say, or I shall
be afraid you've been badly brought up. North of Ireland, I understand. We're South. Dierdre's
a Sinn Feiner. You needn't expect mercy from her, unless I keep her down with a strong hand--the
Hidden Hand. She hates you Northerners about ten times worse than she hates the Huns. Now you
look as if you thought her name wasn't Dierdre! It is, because she took it. She takes a lot
of things, when I've showed her how. For instance, photographs. She has several snapshots of
Jim Beckett and me together. I have some of him and her. They're pretty strong cards (I don't
mean a pun!) if we decide to use them. Don't you agree?"

"I neither agree nor disagree," I said, "for I understand you no better now than when you began."

"You're like Mr. Justice What's-his-name, who's so innocent he never heard of the race course.
Well, I must adapt myself to your child-like intelligence! I'll go back a bit to an earlier
chapter in my career, the way novels and cinemas do, after they've given the public a good,
bright opening. It was true, what I said about my voice. I've lost everything but my middle
register. I had a fortune in my throat. At present I've got nothing but a warble fit for a
small drawing room--and that, only by careful management. I knew months ago I could never sing
again in opera. I was coining money in New York, and would be now--if they hadn't dug me out
as a slacker--an embusqué--whatever you like to call it. I was a conscientious objector: that
is, my conviction was it would be sinful to risk a bullet in a chest full of music, like mine--a
treasure-chest. But the fools didn't see it in that light. They made America too hot to hold
either Giulio di Napoli or Julian O'Farrell. I'm no coward--I swear to you I'm not, my dear
girl! You've only to look me square in the face to see I'm not. I'm full of fire. But ever
since I was a boy I've lived for my voice, and you can't die for your voice, like you can for
your country. It goes--pop!--with you. I managed to convince the doctors that my heart was
too jumpy for the trenches. I see digitalis in your eye, Miss Trained Nurse! It wasn't. It
was strophantis. But they would set me to driving a motor ambulance--cold-hearted brutes! I
got too near the front line one day--or rather the front line got too near me, and a shell
hit my ambulance. The next thing I knew I was in hospital, and the first thing I thought of
was my voice. A frog would have disowned it. I hoped for a while it might come right; but they
sent me to St. Raphael for a sun cure, and--it didn't work. That was last spring. I'm as well
as I ever was, except in my throat, and there the specialists say I need never expect to be
better. I'd change with your brother, Miss O'Malley. My God, I would. If I could lose my eyes
and have my voice again--my voice!"

His flippancy broke down on those words, with one sincere and tragic note that touched me through
my contempt. Watching, he saw this, and catching at self-control, he caught also at the straw
of sympathy within his reach.

"I wanted to die for a while," he went on. "But youth is strong, even when you're down on your
luck--down at the deepest. My sister came to St. Raphael to be with me. It may seem queer to
you, but I'm her idol. She's lost everything else--or rather she thinks she has, which is much
the same--everything that made her life worth living. She wanted to be a singer. Her voice
wasn't strong enough. She wanted to be an actress. She knew how to act, but--she couldn't,
Heaven knows why. She's got temperament enough, but she couldn't let herself out. You see what
she's like! She failed in America, where she'd followed me against our mother's will. Mother
died while we were there. Another blow! And a man Dierdre's been half engaged to was killed
in Belgium. She didn't love him, but he was made of money. It would have been a big match!
She took to nursing only after I was called up. You know in France a girl doesn't need much
experience to get into a hospital. But poor little Dare wasn't more of a success at nursing
than on the stage. Not enough self-confidence--too sensitive. People think she's always in
the sulks--and so she is, these days. I'd been trying for six months' sick leave, and just
got it when I read that stuff in the paper about Beckett being killed, and his parents hearing
the news the day they arrived. It struck me like drama: things do. I was born dramatic--took
it from my mother. The thought came to me, how dead easy 'twould be for some girl to pretend
she'd been engaged to Beckett, and win her wily way to the hearts and pockets of the old birds.
Next I thought: Why not Dierdre? And there wasn't any reason why not! I told her it would be
good practice in acting. (She hasn't quite given up hope of the stage yet.) We started for
Paris on the job; and then I read in a later copy of the same paper about the smart young lady
who'd stepped in ahead of us. If old Beckett hadn't been bursting with pride in the heroic
girl who'd got a medal for nursing infectious cases in a hospital near St. Raphael, I'd have
given up the game for a bad job. I'd have taken it for granted that Jim and the fiancée had
met before we met him at St. Raphael. But when the paper said they'd made acquaintance there,
and gave your name and all, I knew you were on the same trail with us. You'd walked in ahead,
that was the only difference. And we had the snapshots. We could call witnesses to swear that
no nurse from your hospital had come near St. Raphael, and to swear that none of the chaps
in the aviation school had ever come near them. Dierdre hadn't been keen at first, but once
she was in, she didn't want to fail again; especially for a North of Ireland girl like you.
She was ready to go on. But the newspaper gushed a good deal over your looks, you remember.
My curiosity was roused. I was--sort of obsessed by the thought of you. I decided to see what
your head was like to look at before chopping it off. And anyhow, you'd already started on
your jaunt. Through a rich chap I knew in New York, who's over here helping the Red Cross,
I got leave to carry supplies to the evacuated towns, provided I could find my own car. Well,
I found it--such as it is. All I ask of it is not to break down till the Becketts have learned
to love me as their dear, dead son's best friend. As for Dare--what she was to the dear dead
son depends on you."

"Depends on me?" I repeated.

"Depends on you. Dare's not a good Sunday-school girl, but she's good to her brother--as good
as you are to yours, in her way. She'll do what I want. But the question is Will you?"

For a moment I did not speak. Then I asked, "What do you want?"

"Only a very little thing," he said. "To live and let live, that's all. Don't you try to queer
my pitch, and I won't queer yours."

"What is your pitch?" I asked.

He laughed. "You're very non-committal, aren't you? But I like your pluck. You've never once
admitted by word or look that you're caught. All the same, you know you are. You can't hurt
me, and I can hurt you. Your word wouldn't stand against my proofs, if you put up a fight.
You'd go down--and your brother with you. Oh, I don't think he's in it! The minute I saw his
face I was sure he wasn't; and I guessed from yours that what you'd done was mostly or all
for him. Now, dear Miss O'Malley, you know where you are with me. Isn't that enough for you?
Can't you just be wise and promise to let me alone on my 'pitch,' whatever it is?"

"I won't have Mr. and Mrs. Beckett made fools of in any way."

He burst out laughing. "That's good--from you! I give you leave to watch over their interests,
if you let me take care of mine. Is it a bargain?"

I did not answer. I was thinking--thinking furiously, when the landlord came to the door to
put out the lights.

O'Farrell sprang to his feet. "We're ready to go. We can leave the room free, can't we, Miss
O'Malley?" he said in French.

Somehow, I found myself getting up, and fading out of the room as if I'd been hypnotized. I
walked straight to the foot of the stairs, then turned at bay to deliver some ultimatum--I
scarcely knew what. But O'Farrell had cleverly accomplished a vanishing act, and there was
nothing left for me to do save go to my own room.

CHAPTER XI

Thinking things over in the night, I decided to wait until after breakfast before making up
my mind to anything irrevocable. Breakfast being the appointed rendezvous, O'Farrell would
then lay his cards on the table. If he slipped some up his sleeve, I must make it my business
to spot the trick and its meaning for the Becketts.

As I offered this sop to my conscience, I could almost hear O'Farrell saying, with one of his
young laughs, "That's right. Set a thief to catch a thief!"

At ten o'clock we were to start for Nancy via Commercy, so there would be little time to reflect,
and to act on top of reflection; but my strait being desperate, I resolved to trust to luck;
and to be first on the field of battle, I knocked at Brian's door at half-past eight.

He was already dressed, and to look at his neat cravat and smoothly brushed hair no one would
have guessed that his toilet had been made by a blind man. We had not yet exchanged opinions
of the O'Farrell family, and I had come early to get his impressions. They were always as accurate
and quickly built up as his sketches; but since he has been blind, he seems almost clairvoyant.

"What do you think of those two?" I asked. "Or rather, what do you think of the man? I know
you have to judge by voices; and as the girl hardly opened her mouth you can't----"

"Queer thing--and I don't quite understand it myself," said Brian; "but I see Miss O'Farrell
more clearly than her brother."

He generally speaks of "seeing people," quite as a matter of course. It used to give me a sharp
pain at my heart; but I begin to take his way for granted now. "There's something about O'Farrell
that eludes me--slips away like quicksilver. One is charmed with his voice and his good looks----"

"Brian! Who told you he was good-looking?" I broke in.

Brian laughed. "I told myself! His manner--so sure of his power to please--belongs to good
looks. Besides, I've never known a tenor with any such quality of voice who hadn't magnificent
eyes. Why they should go together is a mystery--but they do. Am I right about this chap?"

"Yes, you're right," I admitted. "But go on. I'm more interested in him than in his sister."

"Are you? I've imagined her the more interesting--the more repaying--of the two. I see O'Farrell,
not a bad fellow, but--not sure. I don't believe he's even sure of himself, whether he wants
to be straight or crooked. How he turns out will depend--on circumstances, or perhaps on some
woman. If he travels with us, he'll be a pleasant companion, there's no doubt. But----"

"But--what?"

"Well, we must always keep in mind that he's an actor. We mustn't take too seriously anything
he says or does. And you, Molly--you must be more careful than the rest."

"I! But I told you I'd never met him at St. Raphael. I never set eyes on him till last night."

"I know. Yet I felt, when he 'set eyes' on you--oh, I don't know how to express what I felt!
Only--if it had happened on the stage, there'd have been music for it in the orchestra."

"Brian, how strange you are!" I almost gasped. "Ought we to let the man and his sister go on
with us, if that's their aim? Their Red Cross flag may be camouflage, you know! Very likely
they're adventurers, after the Beckett's money. We could advise Father and Mother Beck----"

"Let's follow a famous example, and 'wait and see'--if only for the girl's sake."

"Oh, you think so well of her!"

"Not well, exactly," Brian hesitated. "I don't know what to think of her yet. But--I think
about her. I feel her, as I feel electricity before a thunderstorm bursts."

"A thunderstorm expresses her!" I laughed. "I thought of that myself. She's sullen--brooding,
dark as a cloud. Yet the tiniest thing! One could almost break her in two."

"I held out my hand for good-night," Brian said. "She had to give hers, though I'm sure for
some reason she didn't want to. It was small and--crushable, like a child's; and hot, as if
she had fever."

"She didn't want to take yours, because we're North of Ireland and she's a fierce Sinn Feiner,"
I explained. Luckily Brian did not ask how I'd picked up this piece of information! He was
delighted with it, and chuckled. "So she's a Sinn Feiner! She's very pretty, isn't she?"

"In a cross-patch way. She looks ready to bite at a touch."

"Poor child! Life must have gone hard with her. She's probably got a grouch, as the American
boys over here say. We must try and do something to soften her down, and make her see things
through rosier spectacles, if she and her brother join on to our party for a while."

"Ye-es."

"You don't like her, Molly?"

"Oh, I've hardly thought of her, dear. But you seem to have made up for that."

"Thunderstorms make you think about them. They electrify the atmosphere. I see this girl so
distinctly somehow: little, white thing; big, gloomy eyes like storms in deep woods, and thin
eyelids--you know, that transparent, flower-petal kind, where you fancy you see the iris looking
through, like spirit eyes, always awake while the body's eyes sleep; and--and lots of dark
hair without much colour--hair like smoke. I see her a suppressed volcano--but not extinct."

"The day may come when we'll wish she were extinct. But really you've described her better
than I could, though I stared quite a lot last night. Come along, dear. It's six minutes to
nine. Let's trot down to breakfast."

We trotted; but early as I'd meant to be, and early as we were, the O'Farrells and the Becketts
were before us. How long they had been together I don't know, but they must have finished their
first instalment of talk about Jim, for already they had got on to the subject of plans.

"Well, it will be noble of you to help us with supplies. The promise we've got from our American
Red Cross man in Paris is limited," O'Farrell was saying in his voice to charm a statue off
its pedestal, as we came in. He sprang to shut the door for us, and gave me the look of a cherubic
fox, as much as to say, "You see where we've got to! But it's all for the good cause. There's
more than one person not as black as he's painted!"

"Molly's watch must be slow," said Brian. "She thought it was only six minutes to nine."

"She's right. But it seems the big clock in the hall outside our door is fast," explained Father
Beckett. "We heard it strike nine, so we hurried down. The same thing happened with Mr. and
Miss O'Farrell."

Another glance at me from the brilliant eyes! "Smart trick, eh?" they telegraphed. I had to
turn away, or I should have laughed. Surely never before, on stage or in story--to say nothing
of real life--was the villain and blackmailer a mischievous, schoolboy imp, who made his victims
giggle at the very antics which caught them in his toils! But, come to think of it, I am a
villain, and next door to a blackmailer! Yet I always see myself (unless I stop to reflect
on my sins) as a girl like other girls, even better-natured and more agreeable and intelligent
than most. Perhaps, after all, villains don't run in types!

I soon learned that Father and Mother Beckett were rejoicing in the acquisition of Jim's two
friends as travelling companions. The celebrated snapshots were among the cards O'Farrell had
kept up his sleeve. No doubt he'd waited to make sure of my attitude (though he appeared to
take it for granted) before deciding what use to make of his best trumps. Seeing that I let
slip my one and only chance of a denunciation-scene, he flung away his also, with an air of
dashing chivalry which his sister and I alone were in a position to appreciate. For me it had
been a case of "speak now, or forever after hold your peace." For him, a decision was not irrevocable,
as he could denounce me later, and plead that I had been spared at first, through kindness
of heart. But I did not stop to consider that detail. I saw the man and myself as accomplices,
on an equal footing, each having given quarter to the other. As for the girl, I still thought
of her hardly at all, in spite of Brian's words. She was an unknown quantity, which I would
waste no time in studying, while the situation that opened bade me sharpen my wits.

In the five or ten minutes before we joined them the Becketts had consented--or offered--to
help finance the Red Cross crusade. To achieve this was worthy of the Irish-Italian's talents.
But the little dining room was littered with samples of the travellers' goods: clothing for
repatriated refugees, hospital supplies; papier-mâché splints, and even legs; shoes, stockings,
medicines; soup-tablets, and chocolates. The O'Farrells might be doing evil, but good would
apparently come from it for many. I could hardly advise the Becketts against giving money,
even though I suspected that most of it would stick to O'Farrell's fingers--even though I knew
that the hope of it consoled Signor Giulio di Napoli for leaving me in my safe niche. Yes,
that was his consolation, I realized. And--there might be something more which I did not yet
foresee. Still, being no better than he was, I was coward enough to hold my peace.

This was the situation when we set out for Nancy, our big car running slowly, in order not
to outpace the rickety Red Cross cab. We were not allowed by the military authorities to enter
Toul, so our way took us through delightful old Commercy, birthplace of Madeleines. Of course
the town had things to make it famous, long before the day of the shell-shaped cakelets which
all true sons and daughters of France adore. Somebody founded it in the ninth century, when
the bishops of Metz were the great overlords of its lords. It was a serious little city then,
and Benedictine monks had a convent there in the Middle Ages. The fun began only with the building
of the château, and the coming of the Polish Stanislas, the best loved and last Duke of Lorraine.
He used to divide his years between Nancy, Lunéville, and Commercy; and once upon a time, in
the third of these châteaux, the chef had a chère amie named Madeleine. There was to be a fête,
and the lover of Madeleine was racking his tired brain to invent some new dainty for it. "I
have thought of something which can make you famous," announced the young woman, who was a
budding genius as a cook. "But, mon cher, it is my secret. Even to you I will not give it for
nothing. I will sell it at a price."

The chef feigned indifference; but each moment counted. The Duke always paid in praise and
gold for a successful new dish, especially a cake, for he was fond of sweets. When Madeleine
boasted that her "inspiration" took the form of a cake, the man could resist no longer. The
price asked was marriage--no less, and paid in advance! But it turned out not excessive. The
feather-light, shell-shaped cakes were the success of the feast; and when Duke Stanislas heard
their history, he insisted that they should be named Madeleines--"after their mother."

Even in war days, "Madeleines de Commercy" is the first cry which greets the traveller entering
town. Jim, it seems, had a charming habit of sending to his mother at home a specimen of the
cake, or confiture, or bonbon, for which each place he visited abroad was famed. These things
used to reach her in jars or boxes adorned with the coat-of-arms and photographs of the city
concerned--a procession of surprises: and I think as she bought Madeleines of Commercy she
moistened them with a few tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

I expected to find Nancy beautiful, since for so long it was the capital of proud Lorraine,
but I hadn't guessed how beautiful or individual. Now I shall always in future see the details
of each splendid square and park by shutting my eyes and calling the vision to come--as Brian does.

We drove straight to the door of a fascinating, old-fashioned hotel in the most celebrated
square of all, the Place Stanislas; but we didn't go in. We couldn't stolidly turn our backs
upon the magic picture, lit by a sudden radiance of sunshine, for in another moment the fairy-like
effect might fade. Yes, "fairy-like" is the word; and as our two cars drew up--like Dignity
and Impudence--I had the feeling that we'd arrived in the capital of fairyland to visit the
king and queen.

It was I who described the scene to Brian: the eighteenth-century perfection of the buildings,
each one harmoniously proportioned to suit the others; the town hall, with its wonderful clock;
the palace; the theatre, and the rest of the happy architectural family reared by Duke Stanislas;
each with its roof-decoration of carved stone vases, and graceful statues miraculously missed
so far by German bombs; the lace-like filigree of wrought iron and gold on flag-hung balconies
or gates; the gilded Arch of Triumph leading into the garden of the Place Carrière--a gorgeous
glitter of decoration which won for Nancy her alias, "City of Golden Doors," and now has to
be "camouflaged" for enemy aeroplanes. It was I who made the list of stage properties, but
it was Brian who filled the stage with actors and actresses, in their proper parts.

He called upon the bronze statue of Stanislas to come down from its high pedestal, and appear
before us in flesh, happy to be Duke of Lorraine, after all the dethronings and abdications
in Poland; a most respectable-looking monarch despite his adventures and disguises of the past.
We saw him in a powdered perruque, on his way to the ducal palace, after some religious ceremony
that had attracted crowds of loyal Catholic Lorrainers: beside him, his good wife of bourgeoise
soul but romantic name, Catherine Opalinska, a comfortable woman, too large for the fashionable
robe à paniers; with the pair, their daughter Marie, proud of the fate foretold by a fortune-teller,
that she should be queen of France; the Royal family, and the aristocrats of their northern
court; the smart Polish officers in uniform; the pretty, coquettish women, and dark-faced musicians
of Hungary; the Swedish philosophers, the long-haired Italian artists; and above all, the beautiful
Marquise de Boufflers--rival of the Queen--with her little dogs and black pages; all these
"belonged" to the sunlit picture, where our modern figures seemed out of place and time. The
noble square, with its vast stretch of gray stone pavement--worn satin-smooth--its carved gray
façades of palaces, picked out with gold, and its vista of copper beeches rose-red against
a sky of pearl, had been designed as a sober background for the colour and fantastic fashion
of the eighteenth century, whereas we and others like us but added an extra sober note.

I noticed, as Brian sketched us his little picture of the past, that Dierdre O'Farrell gazed
at him, as if at some legendary knight in whose reality she did not believe. It was the first
time I had seen any change in the sullen face, but it was a change to interest rather than
sympathy. She had the air of saying in her mind: "You look more like a St. George, stepped
down from a stained-glass window, than an ordinary man of to-day. You seem to think about everyone
else before yourself, and to see a lot more with your blind eyes than we see. You pretend to
be happy, too, as if you wanted to set everybody a good example. But it's all a pose--a pose!
I shall study you till I find you out, a trickster like the rest of us."

I felt a sudden stab of dislike for the girl, for daring to put Brian on a level with herself--and
me. I wanted to punish her somehow, wanted to make the little wretch pay for her impertinent
suspicions. I pushed past her brusquely to stand between her and Brian. "Let's go into the
hotel," I said. "It's more important just now to see what our rooms are like than to play with
the ghosts of dukes."

As if the slighted ghosts protested, there came a loud, reproachful wail out of space. Everyone
started, and stared in all directions. Then the soberly clad, modern inhabitants of Nancy glanced
skyward as they crossed the square of Stanislas. Nobody hurried, yet nobody stopped. Men, women,
and children pursued their way at the same leisurely pace as before, except that their chins
were raised. I realized then that the ghostly wail was the warning cry of a siren: "Take cover!
Enemy aeroplanes sighted!" But there was the monotony of boredom in the voice, and in the air
with which passers-by received the news.

"Oh, lord, here I go again!" the weary siren sighed.

"Third time to-day, mon Dieu!" grumbled a very old man to a very blasé porter, who dutifully
shot out of the hotel to rescue our luggage, if not us, from possible though improbable danger.
We let him haul in our bags, but remained glued to the pavement, utterly absorbed and fascinated,
waiting for the show to begin.

We had not long to wait! For an instant the pearl-pale zenith shone serenely void. Then, heralded
by a droning noise as of giant bees, and a vicious spitting of shrapnel, high overhead sailed
a wide-winged black bird, chased by four other birds bigger, because nearer earth. They soared,
circling closer, closer--two mounting high, two flying low, and so passed westward, while the
sky was spattered with shrapnel--long, white streaks falling slow and straight, like tail-feathers
of a shot eagle.

There was scant time to speak, or even draw an excited breath after the birds had disappeared,
because they were back again, hovering so high that they were changed to insects.

We ought to have scuttled into the hotel, but somehow we didn't move, although people in the
square seemed suddenly to realize the wisdom of prudence. Some vanished into doorways, others
walked faster--though not one of those haughty Lorrainers would condescend to run. Forgetful
of ourselves, I was admiring their pride, when an angry voice made me jump.

"You pretend that everything you do, good or bad, is for your brother's sake, yet you let him
risk his life--a blind man!--out here in the street with bombs and shrapnel dropping every
instant!"

It was Dierdre O'Farrell who spoke, and we glared into each other's eyes like two Kilkenny
cats--or a surprised Kilkenny cat and a spitfire Kilkenny kitten.

A moment before, I had been longing to strike at her. Now it was she who struck at me; and
it was too much, that it should be in defence of my own brother! The primitive fishwife within
me rose to the surface. "Mind your own business!" I rudely flung at her: and slipping my arm
under Brian's, in a voice of curdled cream begged him to come with me indoors.

The others followed, and about three seconds later a bomb fell in front of the hotel. It was
a "dud," and did not explode, but it made a hole in the pavement and sent a jet of splintered
stone into the air.

Perhaps the girl had saved us from death, or at least from disfiguring wounds, but I was in
no mood to thank her for that. I was glad I had been a fishwife, and I thought Brian lacked
his usual discernment in attributing hidden qualities to such a person as Dierdre O'Farrell.

"Something's bound to break, if we don't part soon!" I told myself.

CHAPTER XII

Nancy is one of "Jim's towns," as Mother and Father Beckett say. When, with Brian's help, they
began mapping out their route, they decided to "give something worth while" to the place, and
to all the ruined region round about, when they had learned what form would be best for their
donation to take. Some friend in Paris gave them a letter to the Préfet, and we had not been
in Nancy an hour when he and his wife called.

I'd never met a real, live préfet. The word sounded stiff and official. When Mother Beckett
tremulously asked me to act as interpreter, I dimly expected to meet two polite automata, as
little human as creatures of flesh and blood can be. Instead, I saw a perfectly delightful
pair of Parisians, with the warm, kind manner one thinks of as southern. They were frankly
pleased that a millionaire's purse promised to open for Nancy. Monsieur le Préfet offered himself
to the Becketts as guide on a sightseeing expedition next day, and Madame, the Préfet's wife,
proposed to exhibit her two thousand children, old and young, refugees housed in what once
had been barracks. "The Germans pretend to believe they are barracks still, full of soldiers,
as an excuse for bombs," she said. "But you shall see! And if you wish--if you have time--we
will take you to see also what the Boches have done to some of our other towns--ah, but beautiful
towns, of an importance! Lunéville, and Gerbévillers, and more--many more. You should know
what they are like before you go on to the Grande Couronne, where Nancy was saved in 1914."

Of course the Becketts "wished." Of course they had time. "Molly, tell Mr. and Mrs. Préfet
we've got more time than anything else!" said the old man eagerly. "Oh, and I guess we've got
a little money, too, enough to spread around among those other places, as well as here. This
is going to be something like what Jim would want at last!"

When the Préfet and his wife rose to go, they invited not only the Becketts but Brian and me
to dine at their house that night. Mother Beckett, on the point of accepting for us all, hesitated.
The hesitation had to be explained: and the explanation was--the O'Farrells. I had hoped we
might be spared them, but it was not to be. Our host and hostess, hearing of the travellers
of the Red Cross, insisted that they must come, too. Mrs. Beckett was sure they would both
be charmed, but as it turned out, she was only half right. Mr. O'Farrell was charmed. His sister
had a headache, and intended to spend the evening in her room.

Padre, if I wrote stories, I should like to write one with that préfet and his whole family
for the heroes and heroines of it!

There is a small son. There are five daughters, each prettier than the others, the youngest
a tiny filette, the eldest twenty at most; and the mother in looks an elder sister. When the
war broke out they were living in Paris, the father in some high political post: but he was
by ancestry a man of Lorraine, and his first thought was to help defend the home of his forbears.
The Meurthe-et-Moselle, with Nancy as its centre and capital, was a terrible danger zone, with
the sword of the enemy pointed at its heart, but the lover of Lorraine asked to become préfet
in place of a man about to leave, and his family rallied round him. There at Nancy, they have
been ever since those days, through all the bombardments by Big Berthas and Taubes. When houses
and hotels were being blown to bits by naval guns, thirty-five kilometres away, the daily life
of the family went on as if in peace. As a man, the Préfet longed to send his wife and children
far away. As a servant of France he thought best to let them stop, to "set an example of calmness."
And if they had been bidden to go, they would still have stayed.

The Préfet's house is one of the eighteenth-century palaces of the Place Stanislas; and in
the story I'd like to write, I should put a description of their drawing room, and the scene
after dinner that night.

Imagine a background of decorative walls, adorned with magnificent portraits (one of the best
is Stanislas, and better still is Louis XVI, a proud baby in the arms of a handsome mother);
imagine beautiful Louis XV chairs, tables, and sofas scattered about, with the light of prism-hung
chandeliers glinting on old brocades and tapestries: flowers everywhere, in Chinese bowls and
tall vases; against this background a group of lovely girls multiplied by many mirrors into
a large company; be-medalled officers in pale blue uniforms, handing coffee to the ladies,
or taking from silver dishes carried by children the delicious macaroons which are to Nancy
what Madeleines are to Commercy. Imagine long windows opening into a garden: rosy lamplight
streaming out, silver moonlight streaming in; music; the wonderful voice of a man (Julian O'Farrell)
singing the "Marseillaise," the "Star-Spangled Banner," and "Tipperary." Then into the midst
of this breaking the tiresome whine of the siren.

"What? A fourth time to-day?" cries somebody. "These creatures will wear out their welcome
if they're not careful!"

A laugh follows, to drown the bark of shrapnel, and a general shrugging of the shoulders. But
suddenly comes a cry that la petite--the baby daughter of the house, sitting up in our honour--has
run into the garden.

The elder girls are not afraid for themselves, the great bombardments have given them a quiet
contempt of mere Taubes. But for the little sister!--that is different. Instantly it seems
that all the bombs Germany has ever made may be falling like iron rain on that curly head out
there among the autumn lilies. Everybody rushes to the rescue: and there is the child, sweet
as a cherub and cool as a cucumber, in the din. She stands on the lawn, chin in air, baby thumb
on baby nose for the Taube caught in a silver web of searchlights.

"Sale oiseau!" her defiant cry shrills up. "Just like you, to come on my grown-up evening!
But you shan't spoil it. No, sister, I don't want to go in. I came out to say good-night to
the chickens and rabbits, and tell them not to be afraid."

Behind the lilies and late roses and laurels is quite a menagerie of domestic animals, housed
among growing potatoes, beans, and tomatoes. C'est la guerre! But rabbits and chickens are
robbed of their consolation; the baby is bundled into the house; and, once she is safe--safe
as any one can be safe in bombarded Nancy!--nobody thinks about the air raid. Que voulez-vous?
If one thought about these things, smiles a blonde girl in white, they might really get upon
one's nerves, and that would never do!

"It is this moonlight," she explains. "They will be back again once or twice to-night, perhaps.
But the streets will be as full as ever of poilus en permission, walking with their sweethearts,
in spite of the hateful things!"

       *       *       *       *       *

One makes one's adieux early in war times; but the moonlight was so wonderful on that Taube-ridden
night that Brian said he felt it like a cool silver shower on his eyelids. "I believe I'm developing
night-eyes!" he laughed to me, as we walked ahead of the Becketts and Julian O'Farrell, on
our way across the gleaming square to our hotel. "Surely there won't be another raid for an
hour or two? Let's take a walk. Let's go into the old town, and try to see some ghosts."

"Yes, let's!" I echoed.

I said good-night sweetly to the Becketts and stiffly to O'Farrell. Brian was equally cordial
to all three, and I feared that O'Farrell might be encouraged to offer his company. But his
self-assurance stopped short of that. He went meekly into the darkened hotel with the old couple,
and I turned away triumphant, with my arm in Brian's.

The clock of the Town Hall struck ten, chimed, waited for the church clock to approve and confirm,
then repeated all that it had said and sung a minute before.

We were going to look for ghosts of kings and dukes and queens; and like ghosts ourselves,
we stepped from moonlit shores into pools of shadow, and back to moonlit shores again; past
the golden Arch of Triumph, which Stanislas built in honour of his daughter's marriage with
Louis XV; through the Carrière, where the tops of tall copper-beeches caught the light with
dull red gleams, like the glow of a carbuncle; past the sleeping palace of Stanislas, into
the old "nursery garden" of the Pepinière, to the sombre Porte de la Craffe whose two huge,
pointed towers and great wall guard the old town of Duke René II.

There we stopped, because of all places this dark corner was the place for Nancy's noblest
ghost to walk, René the Romantic, friend of Americo Vespucius when Americo needed friends;
René the painter, whose pictures still adorn old churches of Provence, where he was once a
captive: René, whose memory never dies in Nancy, though his body died 500 years ago.

What if he should rise from his tomb in the church of the Cordeliers, or come down off his
little bronze horse in the Place St. Epvre as ghosts may by moonlight, to walk with his fair
wife Isabella through the huddled streets of the old town, gazing at the wreckage made by the
greatest war of history? What would he think of civilization, he who held his dukedom against
the star warrior of the century, Charles the Bold? War was lawless enough in his day. When
avenging a chancellor's murder, the Nancians hanged 100 Burgundian officers on a church tower
for the besiegers outside the city wall to see. But the "noble Gauls" whom Julius Cæsar called
"knights of chivalry," would have drawn the line then at showering bombs from the bay on women
and children. We fancied, Brian and I, that after a walk round Nancy René and Isabella would
retire, sadder and wiser ghosts, content to have finished their lives in gentler times than
ours. Back into the shadows might they fade, to sleep again, and take up their old dream where
the noise of twentieth-century shrapnel had snapped its thread. Their best dream must be, we
thought, of their battle of Nancy: Charles the Bold on his black war-horse, surrounded by Burgundian
barons in armour, shouting, and waving their banners with standards of ivory and gold; Charles
of the dark locks, and brilliant eyes which all men feared and some women loved; Charles laughing
with joy in the chance of open battle at last, utterly confident of its end, because the young
duke--once his prisoner--had reinforced a small army with mercenaries, Swiss and Alsatians.
At most René had 15,000 soldiers, and Charles believed his equal band of Burgundians worth
ten times the paid northerners, as man to man.

From the church tower where Charles's men had hung--where St. Epvre stands now--René could
see the enemy troops assembling, headed by the Duke of Burgundy, in his glittering helmet adorned
with its device of an open-jawed lion. He could even see the gorgeous tent whose tapestried
magnificence spies had reported (a magnificence owned by Nancy's museum in our day!), and there
seemed to his eyes no end to the defile of spears, of strange engines for scaling walls, and
glittering battle-axes. One last prayer, a blessing by the pale priest, and young René's own
turn to lead had come--a slight adversary for great Charles, but with a heart as bold! The
trumpet blast of La Rivière, sounding the charge of Lorraine, went to his head like wine. He
laughed when Herter's mountain men began to sing "Le taureau d'Uri" and "La vache d'Unterwald,"
to remind the proud Burgundian of his defeats at Granson and Morat. Then came the crash of
armour against armour, blade against blade, and the day ended for Nancy according to René's
prayers. The southerners fled and died; and two days later, René was gazing down at the drowned
body of Charles the Bold, dragged out of a pond. Yes, a good dream for ghosts of the chivalrous
age to retire into, and shut the door! But for us, in our throbbing flesh and blood, this present
was worth suffering in for the glory of the future.

There were other ghosts to meet in Nancy's old town of narrow streets where moonlight trickled
in a narrow rill. Old, old ghosts, far older than the town as we saw it: Odebric of the eleventh
century, who owned the strongest castle in France and the most beautiful wife, and fought the
bishops of Metz and Treves together, because they did not approve of the lady; Henri VI of
England riding through the walled city with his bride, Marguerite, by his side: ghostly funeral
processions of dead dukes, whose strange, Oriental obsequies were famed throughout the world;
younger and more splendid ghosts: Louis XIII and Richelieu entering in triumph when France
had fought and won Lorraine, only to give it back by bargaining later; ghosts of stout German
generals who, in 1871, had "bled the town white"; but greater than all ghosts, the noble reality
of Foch and Castlenau, who saved Nancy in 1914, on the heights of La Grande Couronne.

As we walked back to the new town, dazed a little by our deep plunge into the centuries, I
heard my name called from across the street. "Miss O'Malley--wait, please! It's Julian O'Farrell.
Have you seen my sister?"

Brian and I stopped short, and O'Farrell joined us, panting and out of breath. "She's not with
you?" he exclaimed. "I hoped she would be. I've been searching everywhere--she wasn't in the
hotel when I got home, and it's close to midnight."

CHAPTER XIII

I felt unsympathetic, and wouldn't have cared if Miss Dierdre O'Farrell had flown off on a
broomstick, or been kidnapped by a German aviator. My heart, however, was sure that nothing
had happened and I suspected that her brother had trumped up an excuse to join us. It vexed
me that Brian should show concern. If only he knew how the girl had looked at him a few hours ago!

"Couldn't they tell you in the hotel at what time she went out?" he enquired.

But no! According to O'Farrell, his sister had not been seen. He had found her door unlocked,
the room empty, and her hat and coat missing. "She told me she was going to bed," he added.
"But the bed hasn't been disturbed."

"Nor need you be, I think," said I. "Perhaps your sister wants to frighten you. Children love
that sort of thing. It draws attention to themselves. And sometimes they don't outgrow the fancy."

"Especially Suffragettes and Sinn Feiners," O'Farrell played up to me, unoffended. "Still,
as a brother of one, I'm bound to search, if it takes all night. A sister's a sister. And mine
is quite a valuable asset." He tossed me this hint with a Puck-like air of a private understanding
established between us. Yes, "Puck-like" describes him: a Puck at the same time merry and malicious,
never to be counted upon!

"I feel that Miss O'Farrell went out to take a walk because she was restless, and perhaps not
very happy," Brian reproached us both. "Something may have happened--remember we're in the
war zone."

"No one in Nancy's likely to forget that!" said I, dully resenting his defence of the enemy.
"Brushing bombs out of their back hair every ten minutes or so! And listen--don't you hear
big guns booming now, along the front? The German lines are only sixteen kilometres from here."

Brian didn't answer. His brain was pursuing Dierdre O'Farrell, groping after her through the
night. "If she went out before that air raid, while we were at the Préfet's," he suggested,
"she may have had to take refuge somewhere--she may have been hurt----"

"By Jove!" Puck broke in. "It scares me when you say that. You're a--a sort--of prophet, you
know! I must find out what hospitals there are----"

"We'll go with you to the hotel," Brian promised. "They'll know there about the hospitals.
And if the Préfet's still up, he'll phone for us officially, I'm sure."

"It's you who are the practical one, after all!" cried O'Farrell. And I guessed from a sudden
uprush of Irish accent that his anxiety had grown sincere.

We hurried home; Brian seeming almost to guide us, for without his instinct for the right way
we would twice have taken a wrong turning. As we came into the Place Stanislas, still a pale
oasis of moonlight, I saw standing in front of the hotel two figures, black as if cut out of
velvet. One, that of a man, was singularly tall and thin, as a Mephistopheles of the stage.
The other was that of a woman in a long cloak, small and slight as a child of fourteen. Dierdre
O'Farrell, of course! It could be no one else. But who was the man? A dim impression that the
figure was vaguely familiar, or had been familiar long ago, teased my brain. But surely I could
never have seen it before.

"Hurrah! There she is!" cried O'Farrell, "alive and on her pins!"

At the sound of his voice, the velvet silhouettes stirred. They had turned to look at us, and
a glint of moonlight made the two faces white and blank as masks. O'Farrell waved his hand,
and I was obliged to quicken my steps to keep pace with Brian: "I suppose she got lost--serve
her right!--and the beanpole has escorted her home," grumbled Puck; but as he spoke, the beanpole
in question hurriedly made a gesture of salute, and stalked away with enormous strides. In
an instant he was engulfed by a shadow-wave and his companion was left to meet us alone. I
thought it would be like her to whisk into the hotel and vanish before we could arrive, but
she did not. She stood still, with a fierce little air of defiance; and as we came near I saw
that under the thrown-back cloak her left arm was in a white sling.

Her brother saw it also. "Hullo, what have you been up to?" he wanted to know. "You've given
us the scare of our lives!"

"Thank you," the girl said. "Please speak for yourself!"

"He may speak for us, too," Brian assured her. "We thought of the air raid. And even now, I
don't feel as if we'd been wrong. Your voice sounds as if you were in pain. You've been hurt!"

"It's nothing at all," she answered shortly, but her tone softened slightly for Brian. Even
she had her human side, it seemed. "A window splintered near where I was, and I got a few bits
of glass in my arm. They're out now--every one. A doctor came, and looked after me. You see,
Jule!" and she nodded her head at the sling. "Now I'm going in to bed. Good-night!"

"Wait, and let my sister help you," Brian proposed. "She's a splendid nurse. I know she'll
be delighted."

"Sweet of her!" sneered the girl. "But I'm a trained nurse, too, and I can take care of myself.
It's only my left arm that's hurt, and a scratch at that. I don't need any help from any one."

"Was that man we saw the doctor who put you in your sling?" asked "Jule," in the blunt way
brothers have of catching up their sisters.

"Yes, he was," she grudged.

"Why did he run away? Didn't he want to be thanked?"

"He did not. Besides----"

"Besides--what?"

"He particularly didn't wish to meet--one of our party. Now, I shan't say a word more about
him. So you needn't ask questions. I'm tired. I want to go to bed."

With this ultimatum, she bolted into the hotel, leaving the three of us speechless for a few
seconds. I suppose each was wondering, "Am I the one the doctor didn't want to meet?" Then
I remembered my impression of having known that tall, thin figure long ago, and I was seized
with certainty that the mysterious person had fled from me. At all events, I was sure Miss
O'Farrell wished me to think so by way of being as aggravating as she possibly could.

"Well, I'm blessed!" Puck exploded.

"Are you?" I doubted. And I couldn't resist adding, "I thought your sister always did what
you wanted?"

"In the end she does," he upheld his point. "But--just lately--she's bewitched! Some saint
is needed to remove the ban."

I thought the saint was only too near her hand! Whether that hand would scratch or strike I
couldn't guess; but one gesture was as dangerous as the other.

What with thinking of my own horridness and other people's, wondering about the shadow-man,
and being roused by the usual early morning air raid, bed didn't mother me with its wonted
calming influence. Excitement was a tonic for the next day, however; and a bath and coffee
braced me for an expedition with the Préfet's wife and daughters, and the Becketts. They took
us over the two huge casernes, turned into homes of refuge for two thousand people from the
invaded towns and villages of Lorraine: old couples, young women (of course the young men are
fighting), and children. We saw the skilled embroiderers embroidering, and the unskilled making
sandbags for the trenches; we saw the schools; and the big girls at work upon trousseaux for
their future, or happily cooking in the kitchens. We saw the gardens where the refugees tended
their own growing fruit and vegetables. We saw the church--once a gymnasium--and an immense
cinema theatre, decorated by the ladies of Nancy, with the Préfet's wife and daughters at their
head. On the way home we dropped into the biggest of Nancy's beautiful shops, to behold the
work of last night's bombs. The whole skylight-roof had been smashed at dawn; but the glass
had been swept away, and pretty girls were selling pretty hats and frocks as if nothing had
happened--except that the wind of heaven was blowing their hair across their smiling eyes.

After luncheon at which Dierdre O'Farrell didn't appear, the Préfet took us to the streets
which had suffered most from the big gun bombardment--fine old houses destroyed with a completeness
of which the wickedest aeroplane bombs are incapable. "Any minute they may begin again," the
Préfet said. "But sufficient for the day! We suffered so much in a few hours three years ago,
that nothing which has happened to us since has counted. Nancy was saved for us, to have and
hold. Wounded she might be, and we also. But she was saved. We could bear the rest."

We made him tell us about those "few hours" of suffering: and this was the story. It was on
the 7th of September, 1914, when the fate of Nancy hung in the balance. An immense horde of
Germans came pouring along the Seille, crossing the river by four bridges: Chambley, Moncel,
Brin, and Bioncourt. Everyone knew that the order was to take Nancy at any price, and open
the town for the Kaiser to march in, triumphant, as did Louis XIII of France centuries ago.
William was said to be waiting with 10,000 men of the Prussian Guard, in the wood of Morel,
ready for his moment. Furiously the Germans worked to place their huge cannon on the hills
of Doncourt, Bourthecourt, and Rozebois. Villages burned like card houses. Church bells tolled
as their towers rocked and fell. Forests blazed, and a rain of bombs poured over the country
from clouds of flame and smoke. Amance was lost, and with it hope also; for beyond, the road
lay open for a rush on Nancy, seemingly past the power of man to defend. Still, man did defend!
If the French could hold out against ten times their number for a few hours, there was one
chance in a thousand that reinforcements might arrive. After Velaine fell next day, and the
defile between the two mountain-hills of Amance swarmed with yelling Uhlans, the French still
held. They did not hope, but they fought. How they fought! And at the breaking point, as if
by miracle, appeared the reinforcing tirailleurs.

"This," said the Préfet, "was only one episode in the greatest battle ever fought for Nancy,
but it was the episode in which the town was saved.

"You know," he went on, "that Lorrainers have been ardent Catholics for centuries. In the Church
of Bon-Secours there's a virgin which the people credit with miraculous power. Many soldiers
in the worst of the fighting were sure of victory, because the virgin had promised that never
should Nancy be taken again by any enemy whatever."

It was late when we came back to the hotel, and while I was translating the Becketts' gratitude
into French for the Préfet, the O'Farrells arrived from another direction. The brother looked
pleased to see us; the sister looked distressed. I fancied that she had been forced or persuaded
to point out the scene of last night's adventure, and was returning chastened from the visit.
To introduce her to the Préfet was like introducing a dog as it strains at the leash, but Puck
performed the rite, and explained her sling.

"Hurt in the air raid?" the Préfet echoed. "I hope, Mademoiselle, that you went to a good doctor.
That he----"

"The doctor came to her on the spot," replied Puck, in his perfect French. "It seems you have
doctors at Nancy who walk the streets, when there's a raid, wandering about to pick up jobs,
and refusing payment."

The Préfet laughed. "Can it be," he exclaimed, "that Mademoiselle has been treated by the Wandering
Jew? Oh, not the original character, but an extraordinary fellow who has earned that name in
our neighbourhood since the war."

"Was that what he called himself?" O'Farrell turned to Dierdre. I guessed that Puck's public
revelations were vengeance upon her for unanswered questions.

"He called himself nothing at all," the girl replied.

"Ah," said the Préfet, "then he was the Wandering Jew! Let me see--I think you are planning
to go to Gerbéviller and Lunéville and Vitrimont to-morrow. Most likely you'll meet him at
one of those places. And when you hear his story, you'll understand why he haunts the neighbourhood
like a beneficent spirit."

"But must we wait to hear the story? Please tell us now," I pleaded. "I'm so curious!"

This was true. I burned with curiosity. Also, fatty degeneration of the heart prompted me to
annoy Dierdre O'Farrell. To spite me, she had refused to talk of the doctor. I was determined
to hear all about him to spite her. You see to what a low level I have fallen, dear Padre!

The Préfet said that if we would go home with him and have tea in the garden (German aeroplanes
permitting) he would tell us the tale of the Wandering Jew. We all accepted, save Dierdre,
who began to stammer an excuse; but a look from her brother nipped it in the bud. He certainly
has an influence over the girl, against which she struggles only at her strongest. To-day she
looked pale and weak, and he could do what he liked with her.

He liked to make her take tea at the Préfet's, doubtless because he'd have felt bound to escort
the invalid to her room, had she insisted on going there!

The story of the Wandering Jew would be a strange one, anywhere and anyhow. But it's more than
strange to me, because it is linked with my past life. Still, I won't tell it from my point
of view. I'll begin with the Préfet's version.

The "Wandering Jew" really is a Jew, of the best and most intellectual type. His name is Paul
Herter. His father was a man of Metz, who had brought to German Lorraine a wife from Lunéville.
Paul is thirty-five now, so you see he wasn't born when the Metz part of Lorraine became German.
His parents--French at heart--taught him secretly to love France, and hate German domination.
As he grew up, Paul's ambition was to be a great surgeon. He wished to study, not in Germany,
but in Paris and London. These hopes, however, were of the "stuff that dreams are made of,"
for when the father died, the boy had to work at anything he could get for a bare livelihood.
It wasn't till he was over twenty-five that he'd scraped together money for the first step
toward his career. He went to Paris: studied and starved; then to London. It was there I met
him, but that bit of the story fits in later. He was thought well of at "Bart's," and everybody
who knew him was surprised when suddenly he married one of the younger nurses, an English girl,
and vanished with her from London. Presently the pair appeared in Metz, at the mother's house.
Herter seemed sad and discouraged, uncertain of his future, and just at this time, through
German Lorraine ran rumours of war "to begin when the harvests should be over." Paul and his
mother took counsel. Both were French at heart. They determined to leave all they had in the
world at Metz, rather than Paul should be called up to serve Prussia. The three contrived to
cross the frontier. Paul offered himself to the Foreign Legion; his wife volunteered to nurse
in a military hospital at Nancy; and Madame Herter, mère took refuge in her girlhood's home
at Lunéville, where her old father still lived.

Then came the rush of the Huns across the frontier. Paul's wife was killed by a Zeppelin bomb
which wrecked her hospital. At Lunéville the mother and grandfather perished in their own house,
burned to the ground by order of the Bavarian colonel, Von Fosbender.

Paul Herter had not been in love with his wife. There was a mystery about the marriage, but
her fate filled him with rage and horror. His mother he had adored, and the news of her martyrdom
came near to driving him insane. In the madness of grief he vowed vengeance against all Bavarians
who might fall into his hands.

He was fighting then in the Legion; but shortly after he was gravely wounded. His left foot
had to be amputated; and from serving France as a soldier, he began to serve as a surgeon.
He developed astonishing skill in throat and chest operations, succeeding in some which older
and more experienced men refused to attempt. Months passed, and into his busy life had never
come the wished-for chance of vengeance; but all who knew him knew that Herter's hatred of
Bavarians was an obsession. He was not one who would forget; and when a lot of seriously wounded
Bavarians came into the field-hospital where he was at work, the two young doctors under him
looked one another in the eyes. Even the stretcher-bearers had heard of Herter's vow, but there
was nothing to do save to bring in the stream of wounded, and trust the calm instinct of the
surgeon to control the hot blood of the man. Still, the air was electric with suspense, and
heavy with dread of some vague tragedy: disgrace for the hospital, ruin for Herter.

But the Jewish surgeon (he wasn't called "the Wandering Jew" in those days) caught the telepathic
message of fear, and laughed grimly at what men were thinking of him. "You need not be afraid,"
he said to his assistants. "These canaille are sacred for me. They do not count as Bavarians."

Nevertheless, the young doctors would have tended the wounded prisoners themselves, leaving
Herter to care for his countrymen alone. But one of the Bavarians was beyond their skill: a
young lieutenant. His wound was precisely "Herter's specialty"--a bullet lodged in the heart,
if he was to be saved, Herter alone could save him. Would Herter operate? He had only to say
the case was hopeless, and refuse to waste upon it time needed for others.

Perhaps he knew what suspicion would dog him through life if he gave this verdict. At all events,
he chose to operate. "Bring me the brute," he growled: and reluctantly the brute was brought--a
very youthful brute, with a face of such angelic charm that even Herter was struck by it. He
had steeled himself to get through a hateful job; but for him--like most men of his race--beauty
held a strong appeal. Suddenly he wished to save the boy with the fair curly hair and arched
dark brows. Here was a German--a Bavarian--who could have no vileness in him yet!

The surgeon got ready his instruments for the operation, which must be done quickly, if at
all. The boy was unconscious, but every moment or two he broke out in convulsive delirium,
giving answers to questions like a man talking in sleep. "Hilda! Hilda!" he cried again and
again. "My Hilda, do not ask me that. Thou wouldst not love me if I told thee! Thou wouldst
hate me forever!"

"What have you done that Hilda should hate you?" Paul enquired, as he waited for the anæsthetic.
Ether was running short. The wounded had to take their turn that day.

"Lunéville! Lunéville!" shrieked the Bavarian.

Everyone heard the cry. The two young doctors, knowing Herter's history, turned sick. This
was worse than their worst fears! But they could do nothing. To speak, to try to act, would
be to insult the surgeon. They saw that he was ghastly pale. "What happened at Lunéville?"
he went on.

"Here is the ether," a voice spoke in haste. But Paul heard only the Bavarian.

"Oh, God, the old woman! Her face at the window. I can't forget. Hilda--she wouldn't come out.
It wasn't my fault. The Colonel's orders. An old man, too. We saw them in the fire. We had
to pass on. Hilda, forgive!"

"Was it a corner house of the Rue Princesse Marie?" asked Herter.

"Yes--yes, a corner house," groaned the boy of the beautiful face.

Herter gave a sign to the man who had brought the ether. A moment more, and the ravings of
the Bavarian were silenced. The operation began.

The others had their hands full of their own work, yet with a kind of agonized clairvoyance
they were conscious of all that Herter did. The same thought was in the minds of both young
doctors. They exchanged impressions afterward. "He'll cut the boy's heart out and tread it
underfoot!"

But never had the Jewish surgeon from Metz performed a major operation with more coolness or
more perfect skill. Had he chosen to let his wrist tremble at the critical second, revenge
would easily have been his. But awaiting the instant between one beat of the heart and another,
he seized the shred of shrapnel lodged there, and closed up the throbbing breast. The boy would
live. He had not only spared, but saved, the life of one who was perhaps his mother's murderer.

During the whole day he worked on untiringly and--it seemed--unmoved. Then, at the end of the
last operation, he dropped as if he had been shot through the brain.

This was the beginning of a long, peculiar illness which no doctor who attended him could satisfactorily
diagnose. He was constantly delirious, repeating the words of the Bavarian: "Hilda--Hilda!--the
corner house--Rue Princesse Marie--Lunéville!" and it was feared that, if he recovered, he
would be insane. After many weeks, however, he came slowly back to himself--a changed self,
but a sane self. Always odd in his appearance--very tall and dark and thin--he had wasted to
a walking skeleton, and his black hair had turned snow-white. He had lost his self-confidence,
and dreaded to take up work again lest he should fail in some delicate operation. Long leave
was granted, and he was advised by doctors who were his friends to go south, to sunshine and
peace. But Herter insisted that the one hope for ultimate cure was to stay in Lorraine. He
took up his quarters in what was left of a house near the ruin of his mother's old home, in
Lunéville, but he was never there for long at a time. He was provided with a pass to go and
come as he liked, being greatly respected and pitied at headquarters; and wherever there was
an air raid, there speedily and mysteriously appeared Paul Herter among the victims.

His artificial foot did not prevent his riding a motor-bicycle, and on this he arrived, no
matter at what hour of night or day, at any town within fifty miles of Lunéville, when enemy
airmen had been at work. He gave his services unpaid to poor and rich alike; and owing to the
dearth of doctors not mobilized, the towns concerned welcomed him thankfully. All the surgeon's
serene confidence in himself returned in these emergencies, and he was doing invaluable work.
People were grateful, but the man's ways and looks were so strange, his restlessness so tragic,
that they dubbed him "le Juif Errant."

Now, Padre, I have come to the right place to bring in my part of this story.

While I was training at "Bart's," I met a doctor named Paul Herter. Some of the girls used
to call him the "German Jew" but we all knew that his Germanness was only an accident of fate,
through a war before he was born, and that he was passionately French at heart. He was clever--a
genius--but moody and queer, and striking to look at. He would have been ugly but for a pair
of beautiful brown eyes, wistful sometimes as a dog's. One of our nurses was in love with him,
but he used to keep out of her way when he could. He was said not to care for women, and I
was a little flattered that a man so well thought of "at the top" should take notice of me.
When I look back on myself, I seem to have been very young then!

Dr. Herter used to meet me, as if by accident, when I was off duty, and we went for long walks,
talking French together; I enjoyed that! Besides, there was nothing the man didn't know. He
was a kind of encyclopædia of all the great musicians and artists of the world since the Middle
Ages; and was so much older than I, that I didn't think about his falling in love. I knew I
was pretty, and that beauty of all sorts was a cult with him. I supposed that he liked looking
at me--and that his fancy would end there. But it didn't. There came a dreadful day when he
accused me of encouraging him purposely, of leading him on to believe that I cared. This was
a real shock. I was sorry--sorry! But he said such horrid things that I was hurt and angry,
too. I said horrid things in my turn. This scene happened in the street. I asked him to leave
me, and he did at once, without looking back. I can see him now, striding off in the twilight!
No wonder the tall black silhouette in the Place Stanislas looked familiar. But the man is
thinner now, and walks with a slight limp.

The next thing I heard of him after our break was that he'd married Nurse Norman (the one who
was in love with him) and that they'd left England. Whether he'd married the girl in a rage
against me, or because he was sorry for her (she'd just then fallen into deep disgrace, through
giving a patient the wrong medicine), I didn't know. I can't say I didn't care, for I often
thought of the man and wondered what had become of him, though I don't remember ever writing
about him to you. He was but indirectly concerned with my life, and maybe it was in the back
of my mind that I might get a scolding from you if I told you the tale.

The moment the name of "Paul Herter" was mentioned in that pleasant garden at Nancy, the whole
episode of those old days at "Bart's" came back, and I guessed why the tall figure had darted
away from Dierdre O'Farrell as we came in sight. He must have offered to see the girl safely
home, after dressing her wound (probably at some chemist's), and she had told him about her
fellow-travellers. Naturally my name sent him flying like a shot from a seventy-five! But I
can't help hoping we may meet by accident. There's a halo round the man's head for me since
I've heard that tragic story. Before, he was only a queer genius. Now, he's a hero. Will he
turn away, I wonder, if I walk up to him and hold out my hand?

I am longing, for a double reason, to see Vitrimont and Gerbéviller and Lunéville, since I've
learned that at one of those places Paul Herter may appear.

CHAPTER XIV

We were three automobiles strong when we went out of Nancy, along what they call the "Lunéville
road." That was yesterday, as I write, and already it seems long ago! The third and biggest
car belonged to the Préfet; gray and military looking, driven by a soldier in uniform; and
this time Dierdre O'Farrell was with us. I was wondering if she went "under orders," or if
she wished to see the sights we were to see--among them, perhaps, her elusive doctor!

We turned south, leaving town, and presently passed--at Dombasle--astonishingly huge salt-works,
with rubble-heaps tall as minor pyramids. On each apex stood a thing like the form of a giant
black woman in a waggling gas-mask and a helmet. I could have found out what these weird engines
were, no doubt, but I preferred to remember them as mysterious monsters.

At a great, strange church of St. Nicolas, in the old town of St. Nicolas-du-Port, we stopped,
because the Préfet's daughters had told us of a magic stone in the pavement which gives good
fortune to those who set foot on it. Only when several of us were huddled together, with a
foot each on the sacred spot, were we told that it meant marriage before the new year. If the
spell works, Dierdre O'Farrell, Brian, and I will all be married in less than four months.
But St. Nicolas is a false prophet where we are concerned. Brian and I will never marry. Even
if poor Brian should fall head over ears in love, he wouldn't ask a girl to share his broken
life: he has told me this. As for me, I can never love any man after Jim Beckett. The least
penance I owe is to be faithful forever to his memory and my own falsehood!

St. Nicolas is the patron saint of the neighbourhood, so it's right that from his little town
and his big church all the country round should open out to the eye, as if to do him homage.

From the hill of Léomont we could see to the south the far-off, famous Forest of Parroy; away
to the north, the blue heights of La Grande Couronne, where the fate of Nancy was decided in
1914; to the west, a purple haze like a mourning wreath of violets hung over the valley of
the Meurthe, and the tragic little tributary river Mortagne; beyond, we could picture with
our mind's eyes the Moselle and the Meuse.

But Léomont was not a place where one could stand coldly thinking of horizons. It drew all
thoughts to itself, and to the drama played out upon its miniature mountain. There was fought
one of the fiercest and most heroic single battles of the war.

We had to desert the cars, and walk up a rough track to the ruined farmhouse which crowned
the hill; a noble, fortified farmhouse that must have had the dignity of a château before the
great fight which shattered its ancient walls. Now it has the dignity of a mausoleum. Long
ago, in Roman days when Diana, Goddess of the Moon, was patron of Lunéville and the country
round, a temple of stone and marble in her honour and a soaring fountain crowned the high summit
of Léomont, for all the world to see. Her influence is said to reign over the whole of Lorraine,
from that day to this, St. Nicholas being her sole rival: and a prophecy has come down through
the centuries that no evil may befall Diana's citadels, save in the "dark o' the moon," when
the protectress is absent. Lunéville was overrun in the "dark o' the moon"; and it was then
also that the battle of Léomont was fought, ending in the vast cellars, where no man was left
alive.

In these days of ours, it's a wonderful and romantic mountain, sacred as a monument forever,
to the glory of the French soldiers who did not die in vain. The scarred face of the ruined
house--its stones pitted by shrapnel as if by smallpox--gazes over Lorraine as the Sphinx gazes
over the desert: calm, majestic, sad, yet triumphant. And under the shattered walls, among
fallen buttresses and blackened stumps of oaks, are the graves of Léomont's heroes; graves
everywhere, over the hillside; graves in the open; graves in sheltered corners where wild flowers
have begun to grow; their tricolour cockades and wooden crosses mirrored in the blue of water-filled
shell-holes; graves in the historic cellars, covered with a pall of darkness; graves along
the slope of the hill, where old trenches have left ruts in the rank grass.

An unseen choir of bird-voices was singing the sweetest requiem ever sung for the dead; yet
Léomont in its majestic loneliness saddened us, even the irrepressible Puck. We were sad and
rather silent all the way to Vitrimont; and Vitrimont, at first glance, was a sight to make
us sadder than any we had seen. There had been a Vitrimont, a happy little place, built of
gray and rose-red stones; now, of those stones hardly one lies upon another, except in rubble
heaps. And yet, Vitrimont isn't sad as others of the ruined towns are sad. It even cheered
us, after Léomont, because a star of hope shines over the field of desolation--a star that
has come out of the west. Some wonderful women of San Francisco decided to "adopt" Vitrimont,
as one of the little places of France which had suffered most in the war. Two of them, Miss
Polk and Miss Crocker--girls rather than women--gave themselves as well as their money to the
work. In what remains of Vitrimont--what they are making of Vitrimont--they live like two fresh
roses that have taken root in a pile of ashes. With a few books, a few bowls of flowers, pictures,
and bits of bright chintz they have given charm to their poor rooms in the half-ruined house
of a peasant. This has been their home for many months, from the time when they were the only
creatures who shared Vitrimont with its ghosts: but now other homes are growing under their
eyes and through their charity; thanks to them, the people of the destroyed village are trooping
back, happy and hopeful. The church has been repaired (that was done first, "because it is
God's house") with warm-coloured pink walls and neat decoration; and plans for the restoring
of the whole village are being carried out, while the waiting inhabitants camp in a village
of toy-like bungalows given by the French Government. I never saw such looks of worshipping
love cast upon human beings as those of the people of Vitrimont for these two American girls.
I'm sure they believe that Miss Crocker and Miss Polk are saints incarnated for their sakes
by "la Sainte Vierge." One old man said as much!

He was so old that it seemed as if he could never have been young, yet he was whistling a toothless
but patriotic whistle, over some bit of amateur-carpenter work, in front of a one-room bungalow.
Inside, visible through the open door, was the paralyzed wife he had lately wheeled "home"
to Vitrimont, in some kind of a cart. "Oh, yes, we are happy!" he stopped whistling to say.
"We are fortunate, too. We think we have found the place where our street used to be, and these
Angels--we do not call them Demoiselles, but Angels--from America are going to build us a new
home in it. We have seen the plan. It is more beautiful than the old!"

Wherever we passed a house on the road to Lunéville, and in town itself, as we came in, we
saw notices--printed and written--to remind us that we were in the war-zone, if we forgot for
an instant. "Logement militaire," or "Cave voûtée, 200 places--400 places." Those hospitable
cellars advertising their existence in air raids and bombardments must be a comforting sight
for passers-by, now and then; but no siren wailed us a warning. We drove on in peace; and I--disappointed
at Vitrimont--quietly kept watch for a tall, thin figure of a man with a slight limp. At any
moment, I thought, I might see him, for at Lunéville he lives--if he lives anywhere!

I was so eager and excited that I could hardly turn my mind to other things; but Brian, not
knowing why I should be absent-minded, constantly asked questions about what we passed. Julian
O'Farrell had exchanged his sister for Mr. and Mrs. Beckett, whom he had persuaded to take
the short trip in his ramshackle taxi. His excuse was that Mother Beckett would deal out more
wisely than Dierdre his Red Cross supplies to the returned refugees; so we had the girl with
us; and I caught reproachful glances if I was slow in answering my blind brother. She herself
suspects him as a poseur, yet she judges me careless of his needs--which I should find funny,
if it didn't make me furious! Just to see what Dierdre would do, and perhaps to provoke her,
sometimes I didn't answer at all, but left her to explain our surroundings to Brian. I hardly
thought she would respond to the silent challenge, but almost ostentatiously she did.

She cried, "There's a castle!" when we came to the fine and rather staid château which Duke
Stanislas loved, and where he died. She even tried to describe it for Brian, with faltering
self-consciousness, and the old streets which once had been "brilliant as Versailles, full
of Queen Marie's beautiful ladies." Now, they are gray and sad, even those streets which show
no scars from the three weeks' martyrdom of German rule. Soldiers pass, on foot and in motors,
yet it's hard to realize that before the war Lunéville was one of the gayest, grandest garrison
towns of France, rich and industrious, under Diana's special protection. Just because she was
away in her moon-chariot, one dark and dreadful night, all has changed since then. But she'll
come back, and bless her ancient place of Lunæ Villa, in good time!

It was here, Brian reminded me, that they drew up the treaty which gave the Rhine frontier
to France, after Napoleon won the Battle of Marengo. I wonder if the Germans remembered this
in 1914 when they came?

We lunched at an hotel, in a restaurant crowded with French officers; and not a civilian there
except ourselves. I was hoping that Paul Herter might come in, for the tragic Rue Princesse
Marie is not far away--and even a Wandering Jew must eat! He did not come; but I almost forgot
my new disappointment in hearing the French officers talk about Lorraine.

They were in the midst of a discussion when we came in, and when they had all bowed politely
to us, they took up its thread where it had broken off. A colonel--a Lorrainer--was saying
that out of the wealth of Lorraine (stolen wealth, he called it!) Germany had built up her
fortune as a united nation, in a few years far exceeding the indemnity received in 1871. Germany
had known that there were vast stores of iron; but the amazing riches in phosphorus ores had
come to her as a surprise. If she had guessed, never would she have agreed to leave more than
half the deposit on the French side of the frontier! Well enough for Prussian boasters to say
that Germany's success was due to her own industry and supervirtue, or that her tariff schemes
had worked wonders. But take away the provinces she tore from France, and she will be a Samson
shorn! Take away Lorraine and the world will be rid once and for all of the German menace!

When we left Lunéville there was still hope from Gerbéviller. Herter is often there, it seems.
Besides, Gerbéviller was the principal end and aim of our day's excursion. Once no more than
a pleasant town of quiet beauty on a pretty river, now it is a monument historique, the Pompeii
of Lorraine.

As we arrived the sun clouded over suddenly, and the effect was almost theatrical. From gold
the light had dimmed to silver. In the midst of the afternoon, we saw Gerbéviller as if by
moonlight in the still silence of night. On the outskirts we forsook our three cars, and walked
slowly through the dead town, awestruck and deeply thoughtful as if in a church where the body
of some great man lay in state.

There was not a sound except, as at Léomont, the unseen choir of bird-voices; but their song
emphasized the silence. In the pale light the shells of wrecked houses glimmered white, like
things seen deep down under clear water. They were mysterious as daytime ghosts; and already
a heartbreaking picturesqueness had taken possession of the streets, as an artist-decorator
comes into an ugly room and mellows all its crudeness with his loving touch.

Gerbéviller's tragic little river Mortagne gleamed silver-bright beneath a torn lace of delicate
white flowers that was like a veil flung off by a fugitive bride. It ran sparkling under the
motionless wheel of a burned mill, and twinkled on--the one living thing the Germans left--to
flow through the park of a ruined château.

When it was alive, that small château must have been gay and delightful as a castle in a fairy
tale, pink and friendly among its pleasant trees; but even in its prime, rich with tapestries
and splendid old paintings, which were its treasures, never could the place have been so beautiful
as in death!

At a first glance--seen straight in front--the face of the house seems to live still, rosy
with colour, gazing with immense blue eyes through a light green veil. But a second glance
brings a shock to the heart. The face is a mask held up to hide a skull; the blue of the eyes
is the open sky framed by glassless windows; the rosy colour is stained with dark streaks of
smoke and flame; the château among its trees, and the chapel with its stopped clock and broken
saints are skeletons.

Not even O'Farrell could talk. We were a silent procession in the midst of silence until we
came at last to the one quarter of the town whose few houses had been spared to the courage
of Gerbéviller's heroine, Soeur Julie.

Her street (but for her it would not exist) has perhaps a dozen houses intact, looking strangely
bourgeois, almost out of place, so smugly whole where all else has perished. Yet it was a comfort
to see them, and wonderful to see Soeur Julie.

We knocked at the door of the hospice, the cottage hospital which is famous because of her,
its head and heart; and she herself let us in, for at that instant she had been in the act
of starting out. I recognized her at once from the photographs which were in every illustrated
paper at the time when, for her magnificent bravery and presence of mind, she was named Chevalière
of the Legion of Honour.

But with her first smile I saw that the pictures had done her crude injustice. They made of
Soeur Julie an elderly woman in the dress of a nun; somewhat stout, rather large of feature.
But the figure which met us in the narrow corridor had dignity and a noble strength. The smile
of greeting lit deep eyes whose colour was that of brown topaz, and showed the kindly, humorous
curves of a generous mouth. The flaring white headdress of the Order of Saint-Charles of Nancy
framed a face so strong that I ceased to wonder how this woman had cowed a German horde; and
it thrilled me to think that in this very doorway she had stood at bay, offering her black-robed
body as a shield for the wounded soldiers and poor people she meant to save.

Even if we had not come from the Préfet, and with some of his family who were her admiring
friends, I'm sure Soeur Julie would have welcomed the strangers. As it was she beamed with
pleasure at the visit, and called a young nun to help place chairs for us all in the clean,
bare reception room. By this time she must know that she is the heroine of Lorraine--her own
Lorraine!--and that those who came to Gerbéviller come to see her; but she talked to us with
the unself-consciousness of a child. It was only when she was begged to tell the tale of August
23, 1914, that she showed a faint sign of embarrassment. The blood flushed her brown face,
and she hesitated how to begin, as if she would rather not begin at all, but once launched
on the tide, she forgot everything except her story: she lived that time over again, and we
lived it with her.

"What a day it was!" she sighed. "We knew what must happen, unless God willed to spare Gerbéviller
by some miracle. Our town was in the German's way. Yet we prayed--we hoped. We hoped even after
our army's defeat at Morhange. Then Lunéville was taken. Our turn was near. We heard how terrible
were the Bavarians under their general, Clauss. Our soldiers--poor, brave boys!--fought every
step of the way to hold them back. They fought like lions. But they were so few! The Germans
came in a gray wave of men. Our wounded were brought here to the hospice, as many as we could
take--and more! Often there were three hundred. But when there was no hope to save the town,
quick, with haste at night, they got the wounded away--ambulance after ambulance, cart after
cart: all but a few; nineteen grands blessés, who could not be moved. They were here in this
room where we sit. But ah, if you had seen us--we sisters--helping the commandant as best we
could! We made ourselves carpenters. We took wooden shutters and doors from their hinges for
stretchers. We split the wood with axes. We did not remember to be tired. We tore up our linen,
and linen which others brought us. We tied the wounded boys on to the shutters. They never
groaned. Sometimes they smiled. Ah, it was we who wept, to see them jolting off in rough country
wagons, going we knew not where, or to what fate! All night we worked, and at dawn there were
none left--except those nineteen I told you of. And that was the morning of the 23rd of August,
hot and heavy--a weight upon our hearts and heads.

"Not only the wounded, but our defenders had gone. The army was in retreat. We had fifty-seven
chasseurs left, ordered to keep the enemy back for five hours. They did it for eleven! From
dawn till twilight they held the bridge outside the town, and fought behind barriers they had
flung up in haste. Boys they were, but of a courage! They knew they were to die to save their
comrades. They asked no better than to die hard. And they fought so well, the Germans believed
there were thousands. Not till our boys had nearly all fallen did the enemy break through and
swarm into the town. That was down at the other end from us, below the hill, but soon we heard
fearful sounds--screams and shoutings, shots and loud explosions. They were burning the place
street by street with that method of theirs! They fired the houses with pastilles their chemists
have invented, and with petrol. The air was thick with smoke. We shut our windows to save the
wounded from coughing. Soon we might all die together, but we would keep our boys from new
sufferings while we could!

"Then at last the hour struck for us. One of our sisters, who had run to look at the red sky
to see how near the fire came, cried out that Germans were pouring up the hill--four officers
on horseback heading a troop of soldiers. I knew what that meant. I went quickly to the door
to meet them. My knees felt as if they had broken under my weight. My heart was a great, cold,
dead thing within me. My mouth was dry as if I had lost myself for days in the desert. I am
not a small woman, yet it seemed that I was no bigger than a mouse under the stare of those
big men who leaped off their horses, and made as if to pass me at the door. But I did not let
them pass. I knew I could stop them long enough at least to kill me and then the sisters, one
by one, before they reached our wounded! We backed slowly before them into the hall, the sisters
and I, to stand guard before this room.

"'You are hiding Frenchmen here--French soldiers!' a giant of a captain bawled at me. Beside
him was a lieutenant even more tall. They had swords in their hands, and they both pointed
their weapons at me.

"'We have nineteen soldiers desperately wounded,' I said. 'There are no other men here.'

"'You are lying!' shouted the captain. He thought he could frighten me with his roar like a
lion: but he did not seem to me so noble a beast.

"'You may come in and see for yourselves that I speak the truth,' I said. And think what it
was for me, a woman of Lorraine, to bid a German enter her house! I did not let those two pass
by me into this room. I came in first. While the lieutenant stood threatening our boys in their
beds that he would shoot if they moved, the captain went round, tearing off the sheets, looking
for firearms. In his hand was a strange knife, like a dagger which he had worn in his belt.
One of our soldiers, too weak to open his lips, looked at the German, with a pair of great
dark eyes that spoke scorn; and that look maddened the man with a sudden fury.

"'Coward, of a country of cowards! You and cattle like you have cut off the ears and torn out
the eyes of our glorious Bavarians. I'll slit your throat to pay for that!'

"Ah, but this was too much--more than I could bear! I said 'No!' and I put my two hands--so--between
the throat of that boy and the German knife."

When Soeur Julie came to this part of the tale, she made a beautiful, unconscious gesture,
re-enacting the part she had played. I knew then how she had looked when she faced the Bavarian
officer, and why he had not hacked those two work-worn but nobly shaped hands of hers, to get
at the French chasseur's throat. She seemed the incarnate spirit of the mother-woman, whose
selfless courage no brute who had known a mother could resist. And her "No!" rang out deep
and clear as a warning tocsin. I felt that the wounded boy must have been as safe behind those
hands and that "No!" as if a thick though transparent wall of glass had magically risen to
protect him.

"All this time," Soeur Julie went on, gathering herself together after a moment. "All this
time Germans led by non-commissioned officers were searching the hospice. But they found no
hiding soldiers, because there were none such to find. And somehow that captain and his lieutenant
did not touch our wounded ones. They had a look of shame and sullenness on their faces, as
if they were angry with themselves for yielding their wicked will to an old woman. Yet they
did yield, thank God! And then I got the captain's promise to spare the hospice--got it by
saying we would care for his wounded as faithfully as we tended our own. I said, 'If you leave
this house standing to take in your men, you must leave the whole street. If the buildings
round us burn, we shall burn, too--and with us your German wounded. Will you give me your word
that this whole quarter shall be safe?'

"The man did not answer. But he looked down at his boots. And I have always noticed that, when
men of any nation look at their boots, it is that they are undecided. It was so with him. A
few more arguments from me, and he said: 'It shall be as you ask.'

"Soon he must have been glad of his promise, for there were many German wounded, and we took
them all in. Ah, this room, which you see so clean and white now, ran blood. We had to sweep
blood into the hall, and so out at the front door, where at least it washed away the German
footprints from our floor! For days we worked and did our best, even when we knew of the murders
committed: innocent women with their little children. And the fifteen old men they shot for
hostages. Oh, we did our best, though it was like acid eating our hearts. But our reward came
the day the Germans had to gather up their wounded in wild haste, as the French commandant
had gathered ours before the retreat. They fled, and our Frenchmen marched back--too late to
save the town, but not too late to redeem its honour. And that is all my story."

As she finished with a smile half sad, half sweet, Soeur Julie looked over our heads at some
one who had just come in--some one who had stood listening in silence, unheard and unseen by
us. I turned mechanically, and my eyes met the eyes of Paul Herter, the "Wandering Jew."

CHAPTER XV

Dierdre O'Farrell and I were sitting side by side, our backs to the door, so it was only as
we turned that Herter could have recognized us. He had no scruple in showing that I was the
last person he wished to meet. One look was enough for him! His pale face--changed and aged
since London--flushed a dark and violent red. Backing out into the hall he banged the door.

My ears tingled as if they had been boxed. I suppose I've been rather spoiled by men. Anyhow,
not one ever before ran away at sight of me, as if I were Medusa. I'd been hoping that Doctor
Paul and I might meet and make friends, so this was a blow: and it hurt a little that Dierdre
O'Farrell should see me thus snubbed. I glanced at her; and her faint smile told that she understood.

Soeur Julie was bewildered for a second, but recovered herself to explain that Doctor Herter
was eccentric and shy of strangers. He came often from Lunéville to Gerbéviller to tend the
poor, refusing payment, and was so good at heart that we must forgive his odd ways.

"Spurlos versnubt!" I heard Puck chuckling to himself; so he, too, was in the secret of the
situation. I half expected him to pretend ingenuousness, and spring the tale of Dierdre's adventure
with Herter on the company. But he preserved a discreet reticence, more for his own sake than
mine or his sister's, of course. He's as lazy as he is impish, except when there's some special
object to gain, and probably he wished to avoid the bother of explanations. As for Brian, his
extreme sensitiveness is better than studied tact. I'm sure he felt magnetically that Dierdre
O'Farrell shrank from a reference to her part in the night air raid. But his silence puzzled
her, and I saw her studying him--more curiously than gratefully, I thought.

We had heard the end of Soeur Julie's story, and had no further excuse to keep her tied to
the duties of hostess. When the Becketts had left something for the poor of the hospice, we
bade the heroine of Gerbéviller farewell, and started out to regain our automobiles, Julian
O'Farrell suddenly appearing at my side.

"Don't make an excuse that you must walk with your brother," he said. "He's all right with
Dierdre; perhaps just as happy as with you! One does want a change from the best of sisters
now and then."

"Mrs. Beckett----" I began.

"Mrs. Beckett is discussing with Mr. Beckett what they can do for Gerbéviller, and they'll
ask your advice when they want it. No use worrying. They've boodle enough for all their charities,
and for the shorn lambs, too."

"Do you call yourself a shorn lamb?" I sniffed.

"Certainly. Don't I look it? Good heavens, girl, you needn't basilisk me so, to see if I do!
You glare as if I were some kind of abnormal beast eating with its eyes, or winking with its
mouth."

"You do wink with your mouth," I said.

"You mean I lie? All romantic natures embroider truth. I have a romantic nature. It's growing
more romantic every minute since I met you. I started this adventure for what I could get out
of it. I'm going on to the end, bitter or sweet, for les beaux yeux of Mary O'Malley. I don't
grudge you the Becketts' blessing, but I don't know why it shouldn't be bestowed on us both,
with Dierdre and Brian in the background throwing flowers. You didn't love Jim Beckett, for
the very good reason that you never met him: so, if you owe no more debts than those you owe
his memory, you're luckier than----"

It was not I who cut his words short, though I was on the point of breaking in. Perhaps I should
have flung at him the truth about Jim Beckett if something had not happened to snatch my thoughts
from O'Farrell and his impudence. We had just passed the quarter of the town saved by Soeur
Julie, when out from the gaping doorway of a ruined house stepped Paul Herter.

He came straight to me, ignoring my companion.

"I was waiting for you," he said. "Will you walk on a little way with me? There are things
I should like to speak about."

All the hurt anger I had felt was gone like the shadow of a flitting cloud. "Oh, yes!" I exclaimed.
"I shall be very, very glad."

Whether O'Farrell had the grace to drop behind, or whether I pushed ahead I don't know, but
next moment Doctor Herter and I were pacing along, side by side, keeping well ahead of the
others, in spite of his limp.

"I thought I never wanted to see you again, Mary O'Malley," he said; "but that glimpse I had,
in the hospice, showed me my mistake. I couldn't stand it to be so near and let you go out
of my life without a word--not after seeing your face."

"It makes me happy to hear that," I answered. "I was disappointed when you avoided me the other
night, and--hurt to-day when you slammed the door."

"How did you know I avoided you? The girl promised to hold her tongue."

"She kept her promise. She was pleased to keep it, because she dislikes me. But I heard your
name next day and understood. I--I heard other things, too. If you wouldn't be angry, I should
like to tell you how I----"

"Don't tell me."

"I won't then. But I feel very strongly. And you will let me tell you how grieved I should
have been, if--if that slammed door had been the end between us."

"The end between us was long ago."

"Not in my thoughts, for I never meant to hurt you. I never stopped being your friend, in spite
of all the unkind, unjust things you said to me. I'm proud now that I had your friendship once,
even if I haven't it now."

"You had everything there was in me--except friendship. Now, of that everything, only ashes
are left. The fires have burnt out. You've heard what I suppose they call my story, so you
know why. If those fires weren't dead, I shouldn't have dared trust myself to risk this talk
with you. As it is--I let your eyes call me back. Not that they called consciously. It was
the past that called----"

"They would have called consciously if you'd given them time!" I ventured to smile at him,
with a look that asked for kindness. He did not smile back, but he did not frown. His deep-set
eyes, in their hollow sockets, gazed at me as if they were memorizing each feature.

"You're lovelier than ever, Mary," he said. "There's something different about your face. You've
suffered."

"My brother is blind."

"Ah! There's more than that."

"Yes."

"You loved the son of these rich people the girl told me about? She says you didn't love him,
but she's wrong--isn't she?"

"She's wrong. She knows about things I've done, but nothing about what I think or feel. I did
love Jim Beckett, Doctor Paul. You don't mind being called by the old name? I've learned how
it hurts to love."

"That will do you no harm, Mary. I can speak with you about such things now, for the spirit
of a dead woman stands between us. I didn't love her when she was alive. But if I hadn't married
her and brought her to France she'd be living now. She died through me--and for me. I think
of her with immense tenderness and--a kind of loyalty; a fierce loyalty. I don't know if you
understand."

"Indeed I do! I almost envy her that brave death."

"We won't talk of her any more now," Herter said with a sigh. "I've a feeling she wouldn't
like us to discuss her, together. She used to be--jealous of you, poor girl! There are other
things I wanted to say. The first--but you've guessed it already!--is this: the minute I looked
into your face, there in the hospice, I forgave you the pain you made me suffer. In the first
shock of meeting your eyes, I didn't realize that I'd forgiven. It wasn't till I'd slammed
the door that I knew."

I didn't repeat that I had not purposely done anything which needed forgiveness. I only looked
at him with all the kindness and pity in my heart, and waited until he should go on.

"The second thing I wanted to say is, that just the one look told me you weren't happy and
gay as you used to be. When I'd shut the door, I could still see you clearly, as if I had the
power to look through the wood. I said to myself, that girl's eyes have got the sadness of
the whole world in them. They seem as if they were begging for help, and didn't know where
on earth it was coming from. Was that a true impression? I waited to ask you this, even more
than to see you again."

"It is true," I confessed. "There's only this difference between my feelings and your impression
of them. I know there's no help on earth for me. Such help as there is, I get from another
place. Do you remember how I used to talk about the dear Padre who was our guardian--my brother's
and mine--and how I told him nearly everything good and bad that I thought or did? Well, he
went to the front as a chaplain and he has been killed. But I go on writing him letters, exactly
as if he could give me advice and comfort, or scold me in the old way."

"What about your brother? The girl--Miss O'Farrell she called herself, I think--said he was
with you on this journey. And to-day I recognized him at Soeur Julie's, from his likeness to
you. I shouldn't have guessed he was blind. He has a beautiful face. Do you get no comfort
from him?"

"Much comfort from his presence and love," I said. "But I try to keep him happy. I don't bother
him with my troubles. I won't even let him talk of them. They're taboo."

"I wish I could help you!" Herter exclaimed.

"Your wish is a help."

"Ah, but I'd like to give more than that! I'm going away--that's the third thing I wanted to
tell you. A little while ago I was glad to be going (so far as it's in me, nowadays, to be
glad of anything) because I--I've been given a sort of--mission. Since we've had this talk,
I'd put off going if I could. But I can't. Is your brother's case past cure?"

"It's not absolutely hopeless. Doctor Paul, this is a confidence! It's to try and cure him
that I'm with the Becketts. He doesn't know--and I can't explain more to you. But a specialist
in Paris ordered Brian a life in the open air, and as much pleasure and interest as possible.
You see, it's the optic nerve that was paralyzed in a strange way by shell shock. Some day
Brian's sight may--just possibly may--come back all of a sudden."

"Ah, that's interesting. I'm not an oculist, but I know one or two of the best men, who have
made great reputations since this war. Who was your specialist in Paris?"

I told him.

"A good man," he pronounced, "but I have a friend who is better. I'll write you a letter to
him. You can send it if you choose. That's one service I can do for you, Mary. It may prove
a big one. But I wish there were something else--something for you, yourself. Maybe there will
be one day. Who can tell? If that day comes, I shan't be found wanting or forgetful."

"It's worth a lot to have met you and had this talk," I said. "It's been like a warm fire to
cold hands. I do hope, dear Doctor Paul, that you're not going on a dangerous mission?"

He laughed--the quaint laugh I remembered, like a crackling of dry brushwood. "No more danger
for me in it than there is for a bit of toasted cheese in a rat-trap."

"What a queer comparison!" I said. "It sounds as if you were going to be a bait to deceive a rat."

"Multiply the singular into the plural, and your quick wit has deciphered my parable."

"I'm afraid my wit doesn't deserve the compliment. I can't imagine what your mission really
is. Unless----"

"Unless--what? No! Don't let us go any further. Because I mustn't tell you more, even if you
should happen to guess. I've told you almost too much already. But confidence for confidence.
You gave me one. Consider that I've confided something to you in return. There's just a millionth
chance that my mission--whatever it is--may make me of use to you. Give me an address that
will find you always, and then--I must be going. I have to return to the hospice and see some
patients. No need to write the directions. Better not, in fact. I shall have no difficulty
in remembering anything that concerns you, even the most complicated address."

"It's not complicated," I laughed; and gave him the name of the Paris bankers in whose care
the Becketts allow Brian and me to have letters sent--Morgan Harjes.

He repeated the address after me, and then stopped, holding out his hand. "That's all," he
said abruptly. "I shall be glad, whatever happens, that I waited, and had this talk with you.
Good-bye."

"Good-bye--and good luck in the mission," I echoed.

He pressed my hand so hard that it hurt, and with one last look turned away. He did not go
far, however, but stopped on his way back to ask Dierdre O'Farrell about her arm. She and Brian
(Puck had joined the Becketts) were only a few paces behind me, and pausing involuntarily I
heard what was said. It was easy to see that Dierdre wished me to hear her part.

"My arm is going on very well," she informed her benefactor. "I thank you again for your kindness
in attending to it. But I don't think it was kind to order me to keep a secret, and then give
it away yourself. You made me seem an--ungracious pig and a fool. I shouldn't mind that, if
it did you good, in return for the good you've done me. But since it was for nothing----"

"I apologize," Herter broke in. "I meant what I said then. But a power outside myself was too
strong for me. Maybe it will be the same for you some day. Meanwhile, don't make the mistake
I made: don't do other people an injustice."

Leaving Dierdre at bay between anger and amazement, he stared with professional eagerness into
Brian's sightless eyes, and stalked off toward the hospice.

CHAPTER XVI

Since I wrote you last, Padre, I have been in the trenches--real, live trenches, not the faded,
half-filled-up ghosts of trenches where men fought long ago. I had to give my word not to tell
or write any one just where these trenches are, so I won't put details in black and white,
even in pages which are only for you and me. I keep this book that you gave me in my hand-bag,
and no eyes but mine see it--unless, dear Padre, you come and look over my shoulder while I
scribble, as I often feel you do! Still--something might happen: an automobile accident; or
the bag might be lost or stolen, though it's not a gorgeously attractive one, like that in
which Mother Beckett carries Jim's letters.

It was the day after Lunéville and Gerbéviller. We started out once again from Nancy, no matter
in which direction, but along a wonderful road. Not that the scenery was beautiful. We didn't
so much as think of scenery. The thrill was in the passing show, and later in the "camouflage."
We were going to be given a glimpse of the Front which the communiqués (when they mention it
at all nowadays) speak of as calm. Its alleged "calmness" gave us non-combatants our chance
to pay it a visit; but many wires had been pulled to get us there, and we had dwindled to a
trio, consisting of Father Beckett, Brian, and me. Mother Beckett is not made for trenches,
even the calmest, and there was no permission for the occupants of the Red Cross taxi, who
are not officially of our party. They have their own police pass for the war-zone, but all
special plums are for the Becketts, shared by the O'Malleys; and this visit to the trenches
was an extra-special superplum.

All along the way, coming and going, tearing to meet us, or leaving us behind, splashed with
gray mud after a night of rain, motor-lorries sped. They carried munitions or food to the front,
or brought back tired soldiers bound for a place of rest, and their roofs were marvellously
"camouflaged" in a blend of blue and green paint splotched with red. For aeroplanes they must
have looked, in their processions, like drifting mist over meadowland. Shooting in and out
among them, like slim gray swordfish in a school of porpoise, were military cars crowded with
smart officers who saluted the lieutenant escorting us, and stared in surprise at sight of
a woman. A sprinkling of these officers were Americans, and they would have astonished us more
than we astonished them had we not known that we should see Americans. They were to be, indeed,
the "feature" of the great show; and though Mr. Beckett was calm in manner to match the Front,
I knew from his face that he was deeply moved by the thought of seeing "boys from home" fighting
for France as his dead son had fought.

At each small village we saw soldiers who had been sent to the "back of the Front" for a few
days' change from the trenches. They lounged on long wooden benches before humble houses where
they had logement; they sat at tables borrowed from kitchens, earnestly engaged at dominoes
or manille, or they played boules in narrow grass alleys beside the muddy road. For them we
had packed all vacant space in the auto with a cargo of cigarettes; and white teeth flashed
and blue arms waved in gratitude as we went by. I think Father Beckett was happier than he
had been since we left Paris.

At last we came to a part of the road that was "camouflaged" with a screen of branches fixed
into wire. There was no great need of it in these days, our lieutenant explained, but Heaven
knew when it might be urgently wanted again: perhaps to-morrow! And this was where we said
"au revoir" to our car. She was wheeled out of the way on to a strip of damp grass, under a
convenient group of trees where no prowling enemy plane might "spot" her; and we set out to
walk for a short distance to what had once been a farmhouse. Now, what was left of it had another
use. A board walk (well above the mud), which led to the new, unpainted door, was guarded by
sentinels, and explanations were given and papers shown before a rather elderly French captain
appeared to greet us. Arrangements had been made for our reception, but we had to be identified;
and when all was done we were given a good welcome. Also we were given helmets, and I was vain
enough to fancy I had never worn a more becoming hat.

Besides our own escort--the lieutenant who had brought us from Nancy--we had a captain and
a lieutenant to guide us into the "calmness" of the trenches (the captain and a lieutenant
for Mr. Beckett and Brian, the other lieutenant for me) and one would have thought that they
had never before seen a woman in or out of a helmet! Down in a deep cellar-like hole, which
they called "l'anti-chambre," all three officers coached Father Beckett and me in trench manners.
As for Brian, it was clear to them that he was no stranger to trench life, and their treatment
of him was perfect. They made no fuss, as tactless folk do over blind men; but, while feigning
to regard him as one of themselves, they slily watched and protected his movements as a proud
mother might the first steps of a child.

On we went from the antichambre into a long mouldy passage dug deep into the earth. It was
the link between trenches; and now and then a sentinel popped out from behind a queer barrier
built up as a protection against "les éclats d'obus." "This is the way the wounded come back,"
said one of the lieutenants, "when there are any wounded. Just now (or you would not be here,
Mademoiselle) there is"--he finished in English--"nothing doing."

I laughed. "Who taught you that?"

"You will see," he replied, making a nice little mystery. "You will see who taught it to me--and
then some!"

That was a beautiful ending for the sentence, and his American accent was perfect, even if
the meaning of the poor man's quotation was a little uncertain!

We turned several times, and I had begun to think of the Minotaur's labyrinth, when the passage
knotted itself into a low-roofed room, open at both ends, save for bomb screens, with a trench
leading dismally off from an opposite doorway. "When is a door not a door?" was a conundrum
of my childhood, and I think the answer was: "When it's ajar." But nowadays there is a better
réplique: A door is not a door when it's a dug-out. It is then a hole, kept from falling in
upon itself by a log of wood or anything handy. This time, the "anything handy" seemed to be
part of an old wheelbarrow, and on top were some sandbags. In the room, which was four times
as long as it was broad, and twelve times longer than high, a few vague soldier-forms crouched
over a meal on the floor, their tablecloth being a Paris newspaper. They scrambled to their
feet, but could not stand upright, and to see their stooping salute to stooping officers in
the smoky twilight, was like a vision in a dark, convex mirror.

As we wound our way past the screen at the far end of the cellar dining-room, my lieutenant
explained the method in placing each pare-éclat, as he called the screen. "You see, Mademoiselle,
if a bomb happened to break through and kill us, the screen would save the men beyond," he
said; then, remembering with a start that he was talking to a woman, he hurried to add: "Oh,
but we shall not be killed. Have no fear. There's nothing of that sort on our programme to-day--at
least, not where we shall take you."

"Do I look as if I were afraid?" I asked.

"No, you look very brave, Mademoiselle," he flattered me. "I'm sure it is more than the helmet
which gives you that look. I believe, if you were allowed you would go on past the safety zone."

"Where does the safety zone end?" I curiously questioned.

"It is different on different days. If you had come yesterday, you could have had a good long
promenade. Indeed that was what we hoped, when we arranged to entertain your party. But unfortunately
the gentlemen in the opposing trenches discovered that Les Sammies had arrived on our secteur.
They wanted to give them a reception, and so--your walk has to be shortened, Mademoiselle."

Suddenly I felt sick. I had the sensation Soeur Julie described herself as feeling when she
met the giant German officers. But it was not fear. "Do you mean--while we're here, safe--like
tourists on a pleasure jaunt," I stammered, "that American soldiers are being killed--in the
trenches close by? It's horrible! I can't----"

"Il ne faut pas se faire de la bile, as our poilus say, when they mean 'Don't worry,' Mademoiselle,"
the lieutenant soothed me. "If there were any killing along this secteur you would hear the
guns boom, n'est-ce-pas? You had not stopped to think of that. There was a little affair at
dawn, I don't conceal it from you. A surprise--a coup de main against the Americans the Boches
intended. They thought, as all has been quiet on our Front for so long, we should expect nothing.
But the surprise didn't work. They got as good as they sent, and no one on our side was killed.
That I swear to you, Mademoiselle! There were a few wounded, yes, but no fatalities. The trouble
is that now things have begun to move, they may not sit still for long, and we cannot take
risks with our visitors. The mountain must come to Mahomet. That is, les Sammies must call
upon you, instead of you upon them. The reception room is chez nous Français. It is ready,
and you will see it in a moment."

Almost as he spoke we came to a dug-out of far more imposing architecture than the hole between
trenches which we had seen. We had to stoop to go in, but once in we could stand upright, even
Brian, who towered several inches above the other men. The place was lighted with many guttering
candles, and tears sprang to my eyes at the pathos of the decorations. Needless to explain
that the French and American flags which draped the dark walls were there in our honour! Also
there were a Colonel, a table, benches, chairs, some glasses, and one precious bottle of champagne,
enough for a large company to sip, if not to drink, each other's health. Hardly had we been
introduced to the decorations, including the Colonel, when the Americans began to arrive, three
young officers and two who had hardened into warlike middle age. It was heart-warming to see
them meet Mr. Beckett, and their chivalric niceness to Brian and me was somehow different from
any other niceness I remember--except Jim's.

Not that one of the men looked like Jim, or had a voice like his: yet, when they spoke, and
smiled, and shook hands, I seemed to see Jim standing behind them, smiling as he had smiled
at me on our one day together. I seemed to hear his voice in an undertone, as if it mingled
with theirs, and I wondered if Jim's father had the same almost supernatural impression that
his son had come into the dug-out room with that little band of his countrymen.

It is strange how a woman can be homesick for a man she has known only one day; but she can--she
can--for a Jim Beckett! He was so vital, so central in life, known even for a day, that after
his going the world is a background from which his figure has been cut out, leaving a blank
place. These jolly, brave American soldier-men made me want so desperately to see Jim that
I wished a bomb would drop in--just a small bomb, touching only me, and whisking me away to
the place where he is. In body he could not forgive me, of course, for what I've done; but
in spirit he might forgive my spirit if it travelled a long way to see his!

I am almost sure that the Americans did bring Jim back to Father Beckett, as to me, for though
he was cheerful, and even made jokes to show that he mustn't be treated as a mourner, there
was one piteous sign of emotion which no self-control could hide. I saw his throat work--the
throat of an old man--his "Adam's apple" going convulsively up and down like a tossed ball
in a fountain jet. Then, lest I should sob while his eyes were dry, I looked away.

We all had champagne out of the marvellous bottle which had been hoarded during long months
in case of "a great occasion," and we economized sips but not healths. We drank to each one
of the Allies in turn, and to a victorious peace. Then the officers--French and American--began
telling us trench tales--no grim stories, only those at which we could laugh. One was what
an American captain called a "peach"; but it was a Frenchman who told it: the American contingent
have had no such adventures yet.

The thing happened some time ago, before the "liveliness" died down along this secteur. One
spring day, in a rainy fog like a gray curtain, a strange pair of legs appeared, prowling alongside
a French trench. They were not French legs; but instantly two pairs of French arms darted out
under the stage-drop of fog to jerk them in. Down came a feldwebel on top of them, squealing
desolately "Kamerad!" He squealed many more guttural utterances, but not one of the soldiers
in blue helmets, who soon swarmed round him, could understand a word he said. "Why the crowd?"
wondered the Captain of the company, appearing from a near-by dug-out. The queer quarry was
dragged to the officer's feet, and fortunately the Captain, an Alsatian, had enough German
for a catechism.

"What were you doing close to our lines?" he demanded.

"Oh, Herr Captain, I did not know they were your lines. I thought they were ours. In our trench
we are hungry, very hungry. I thought in the mist I could safely go a little way and seek for
some potatoes. Where we are they say there was once a fine potato field. Not long ago, one
of our men came back with half a dozen beauties. Ah, they were good! I was empty enough to
risk anything, Herr Captain. But I had no luck. And, worse still, the fog led me astray. Spare
my life, sir!"

"We will spare you what is worth more than a little thing like your life," said the Captain.
"We'll spare you some of our good food, to show you that we French do not have to gnaw our
finger-nails, like you miserable Boches. Men, take this animal away and feed it!"

The men obeyed, enjoying the joke. The dazed Kamerad was stuffed with sardines, meat, bread,
and butter (of which he had forgotten the existence), delicious cheese, and chocolates. At
last the magic meal was topped off with smoking hot black coffee, a thimbleful of brandy, and--a
cigar! Tobacco and cognac may have been cheap, but they made the feldwebel feel as if he had
died and gone to heaven.

When he had eaten till his belt was tight for the first time in many moons, back he was hustled
to the Captain.

"Well--you have had something better than potatoes? Bon! Now, out of this, quicker than you
came! Your mother may admire your face, but we others, we have seen enough of it."

"But, Herr Captain," pleaded the poor wretch, loth to be banished from Paradise, "I am your
prisoner."

"Not at all," coolly replied the officer. "We can't be bothered with a single prisoner. What
is one flea on a blanket? Another time, if we come across you again with enough of your comrades
to make the game worth while, why then, perhaps we may give ourselves the pain of keeping you.
You've seen that we have enough food to feed your whole trench, and never miss it."

Away flew the German over the top, head over heels, not unassisted: and after they had laughed
awhile, his hosts and foes forgot him. But not so could he forget them. That night, after dark,
he came trotting back with fifteen friends, all crying "Kamerad!" eager to deliver themselves
up to captivity for the flesh-pots of Egypt.

"But--we're not to go without a glimpse of the Sammies, are we?" I asked, when stories and
champagne were finished.

The "Sammies'" officers laughed. "The boys don't love that name, you know! But it sticks like
a burr. It's harder to get rid of than the Boches. As for seeing them--(the boys, not the Boches!)
well----" And a consultation followed.

The trenches beyond our dug-out drawing room could not be guaranteed "safe as the Bank of England"
for non-combatants that day, and no one wanted to be responsible for our venturing farther.
Still, if we couldn't go to the boys, a "bunch" of the boys could come to us. A lieutenant
dashed away, and presently returned with six of the tallest, brownest, best-looking young men
I ever saw. Their khaki and their beautiful new helmets were so like British khaki and helmets
that I shouldn't have been expert enough to recognize them as American. But somehow the merest
amateur would never have mistaken those boys for their British brothers. I can't tell where
the difference lay. All I can say is that it was there. Were their jaws squarer? No, it couldn't
have been that, for British jaws are firm enough, and have need to be, Heaven knows! Were their
chins more prominent? But millions of British chins are prominent. My brain collapsed in the
strain after comparisons, abandoned the effort and drank in a draught of rich, ripe American
slang as a glorious pick-me-up. No wonder the French officers in liaison have caught the new
"code." The coming of those brown boys with their bright and glittering teeth and witty words
made up to us for miles of trenches we hadn't seen. Gee, but they were bully! Oh, boy! Get
hep to that!

CHAPTER XVII

Father Beckett must have suffered dark hours of reaction after seeing those soldier-sons of
American fathers, if there had been time to think. But we flashed back to Nancy in haste, for
a late dinner and adieux to our friends. Brian and I snatched the story of our day's adventure
from his mouth for Mother Beckett; and luckily he was too tired to give her a new version.
I heard in the morning that he had slept through an air raid!

I, too, was tired, and for the same reason: but I could not sleep. Waking dreams marched through
my mind--dreams of Jim as he must have looked in khaki, dreams which made an air raid more
or less seem unimportant. As the clocks of Nancy told the hours, I was in a mood for the first
time since Gerbéviller to puzzle out the meaning of Paul Herter's parable.

What had he meant by saying that his mission would be no more dangerous than a rat-trap for
a bit of toasted cheese?

I had exclaimed, "That sounds as if you were to bait the trap!" but he had not encouraged me
to guess. And there had been so much else to think of, just then! His offer of introductions
to specialists for Brian had appealed to me more than a vague suggestion of service to myself
"some day."

But now, through the darkness of night, a ray like a searchlight struck clear upon his cryptic
hint.

Somehow, Herter hoped to get across the frontier into Germany! His question, whether I had
loved Jim Beckett, was not an idle one. He had not asked it through mere curiosity, or because
he was jealous of the dead. His idea was that, if I had deeply cared for Jim, I should be glad
to know how he had died, and where his body lay. Germany was the one place where the mystery
could be solved. I realized suddenly that Doctor Paul expected "some day" to be in a position
to solve it.

"He's going into Germany as a spy," I said to myself. "He's a man of German Lorraine. German
is his native language. Legally he's a German subject. He'll only have to pretend that he was
caught by accident in France when the war broke out--and that at last he has escaped. All that
may be easy if there are no spies to give him away--to tell what he's been doing in France
since 1914. The trouble will be when he wants to come back."

I wished that I could have seen the man again, to have bidden him a better farewell, to have
told him I'd pray for his success. But now it was too late. Already he must have set off on
his "mission," and we were to start in the morning for Verdun.

The thought of Verdun alone was enough to keep me awake for the rest of the night, to say nothing
of air raids and speculations about Doctor Paul. It seemed almost too strange to be true that
we were to see Verdun--Verdun, where month after month beat the heart of the world.

The O'Farrells had not got permission for Verdun, nor for Rheims, where we of the great gray
car were going next. Still more than our glimpse of the trenches were these two places "extra
special." The brother and sister were to start with us from Nancy, but we (the Becketts, Brian,
and I) were to part from them at Bar-le-Duc, where we would be met by an officer from Verdun.
Two days later, we were to meet again at Paris, and continue--as Puck impudently put it--"our
rôle of ministering angels," along the Noyon front and beyond.

This programme was settled when--through influence at Nancy--Father Beckett's passes for four
had been extended to Verdun and Rheims. I breathed a sigh of relief at the prospect of two
more days without the O'Farrells; and all that's Irish in me trusted to luck that "something
might happen" to part us forever. Why not? The Red Cross taxi might break down (it looked ready
to shake to pieces any minute!). Dierdre might be taken ill (no marble statue could be paler!).
Or the pair might be arrested by the military police as dangerous spies. (Really, I wouldn't
"put it past" them!). But my secret hopes were rudely jangled with my first sight of Brian
on the Verdun morning.

"Molly, I hope you won't mind," he said, "but I've promised O'Farrell to go with them and meet
you in Paris to-morrow night. I've already spoken to Mr. Beckett and he approves."

"This comes of my being ten minutes late!" I almost--not quite--cried aloud. I'd hardly closed
my eyes all night, but had fallen into a doze at dawn and overslept myself. Meanwhile the O'Farrell
faction had got in its deadly work!

I was angry and disgusted, yet--as usual where that devil of a Puck was concerned--I had the
impulse to laugh. It was as if he'd put his finger to his nose and chuckled in impish glee:
"You hope to get rid of us, do you, you minx? Well, I'll show you!" But I should be playing
his game if I lost my temper.

"Why do the O'Farrells want you to go with them?" I "camouflaged" my rage.

"It's Julian who wants me," explained the dear boy. (Oh, it had come to Christian names!) "It
seems Miss O'Farrell has taken it into her head that none of us likes her, and that we've arranged
this way to get rid of them both--letting them down easily and making some excuse not to start
again together from Paris. O'Farrell thought if I'd offer to go with them and sit in the back
of the car while he drove I could persuade her----"

"Well, I don't envy any one the task of persuading that girl to believe a thing she doesn't
wish to believe," I exploded. "My private opinion is, though, that her brother's sister needs
no persuading. The two of them want to show me that they have power----"

Brian broke in with a laugh. "My child, you see things through a magnifying glass! Is your
blind brother a prize worth squabbling over? I can be of use to the Becketts, it's true, when
we travel without a military escort, or with one young officer who knows more about seventy-fives
than about the romance of history. I can tell them what I've read and what I've seen. But at
Verdun you'll be in the society of generals; and at Rheims of as many dignitaries as haven't
been bombarded out of town. The Becketts don't need me. Perhaps Miss O'Farrell does."

"Perhaps!" I repeated.

Brian can see twice as much as those who have eyes, but he would not see my sarcasm. Just then,
however, Mrs. Beckett joined us in the hall of the hotel, where we stood ready to start--all
having breakfasted in our own rooms. She guessed from my face that I was not pleased with Brian's
plan.

"My dear, I'd go myself with poor little Dierdre O'Farrell instead of Brian!" she said. "Verdun
isn't one of Jim's towns. Rheims is--but I'd have sacrificed it. There can't be much left there
to see. Only--two whole days! Father and I haven't been parted so long in our lives since we
were married. I thought yesterday, when you were away in those trenches, what a coward I'd
been not to insist on going, and what if I never saw Father again! I hope you don't think I'm
too selfish!"

Poor darling, selfish to travel in her own car with her own husband! I just gave her a look
to show what I felt; but after that I could no longer object to parting with Brian. Puck had
got his way, and I could see by the light in his annoyingly beautiful eyes how exquisitely
he enjoyed the situation. Brian and Brian's kitbag were transferred to the Red Cross taxi,
there and then, to save delay for us and the officer who would meet us, in case the wretched
car should get a panne, en route to Bar-le-Duc. As a matter of fact, that is what happened;
or at all events when our big, reliable motor purred with us into Bar-le-Duc, the O'Farrells
were nowhere to be seen.

Our officer--another lieutenant--had arrived in a little Ford; and as we were invited to lunch
in the citadel of Verdun we could not wait. I felt sure the demon Puck had managed to be late
on purpose, so that my Verdun day might be spoiled by anxiety for Brian. Thus he would kill
two birds with one stone: show how little I gained by the enemy's absence, and punish me for
not letting him make love!

The road to Verdun was a wonderful prelude. After three years' Titanic battling, how could
there be a road at all? I had had vague visions of an earthly turmoil, a wilderness of shell-holes
where once had gleamed rich meadows and vineyards, with little villages set jewel-like among
them, and the visions were true. But through the war-worn desert always the road unrolled--the
brave white road. Heaven alone could tell the deeds of valour which had achieved the impossible,
making and remaking that road! It should have some great poem all to itself, I thought; a poem
called "The Road to Verdun." And the poem should be set to music. I could almost hear the lilt
of the verses as our car slipped through the tangle of motor camions and gun-carriages on the
way thither. As for the music, I could really hear that without flight of fancy: a deep, rolling
undertone of heavy wheels, of jolting guns, of pulsing engines, like a million beating hearts;
and out of its muffled bass rising the lighter music of men's voices: soldiers singing; soldiers
going to the front, who shouted gaily to soldiers going to repose; soldiers laughing; soldier-music
that no hardship or suffering could subdue.

We had seen such processions before, but none so endless as this, going both ways, as far as
the eye could reach. We had seen no such tremendous parks of artillery and aviation by the
roadside, no such store of shells for big guns and little guns, no such pyramids of grenades
for trenches and aeroplanes. We were engulfed in war, swallowed up in war. It was thrilling
beyond words.

But all the road flashed bright with thrills. There was a thrill at "le Bois de Regrets," forest
of dark regret for the Prussians of 1792, where the French turned them back--the forest which
Goethe saw: a thrill more keen for the pointing sign, "Metz, 47 kilomètres," which reminded
us that less than thirty miles separated us from the great German stronghold, yet--"on ne passera
pas!" And the deepest thrill of all at the words of our guide: "Voilà la porte de Verdun! Nous
y sommes."

Turning off the road, we stopped our car and the little Ford to look up and worship. There
it rose before us, ancient pile of gray stones, altar of history and triumph, Verodunum of
Rome, city of warlike, almost royal bishops and rich burghers: town of treaties, sacked by
Barbarians; owned and given up by Germans; seized by Prussians when the French had spiked their
guns in 1870; and now forever a monument to the immortal manhood of France!

Perhaps it was the mist in my eyes, but at first sight Verdun did not look ruined, as I saw
it towering up to its citadel in massive strength and stern dignity. The old houses on the
slope stood shoulder to shoulder and back to back, like massed men fighting their last stand.
It was only when we had started on again, and passing through the gate had slipped into the
sorrowful intimacy of the streets, that Verdun let us see her glorious rags and scars.

You would think that one devastated town would be much like another to look at save for size.
But no! I am learning that each has some arresting claim of its own to sacred remembrance.
Nancy has had big buildings knocked down like card houses by occasional bombardment of great
guns. Sermaize, Gerbéviller, Vitrimont and twenty other places we have seen were thoroughly
looted by the Germans and then burned, street by street. But Verdun has been bombarded every
day for weeks and months and years. The town is a royal skeleton, erect and on its feet, its
jewelled sceptre damaged, but still grasped in a fleshless hand. The Germans have never got
near enough to steal!

"You see," said the smart young captain who had come out to meet us at the gate and take us
to the citadel, "you see, nothing has been touched in these houses since the owners had to
go. When they return from their places of refuge far away, they will find everything as they
left it--that is, as the Boche guns have left it."

Only too easy was it to see! In some of the streets whole rows of houses had had their fronts
torn off. The rooms within were like stage-settings for some tragic play. Sheets and blankets
trailed from beds where sleepers had waked in fright. Doors of wardrobes gaped to show dresses
dangling forlornly, like Bluebeard's murdered brides. Dinner-tables were set out for meals
never to be finished, save by rats. Family portraits of comfortable old faces smiling under
broken glass hung awry on pink or blue papered walls. Half-made shirts and petticoats were
still caught by the needle in broken sewing-machines. Dropped books and baskets of knitting
lay on bright carpets snowed under by fallen plaster. Vases of dead flowers stood on mantelpieces,
ghostly stems and shrivelled brown leaves reflected in gilt-framed mirrors. I could hardly
bear to look! It was like being shown by a hard-hearted surgeon the beating of a brain through
the sawed hole in a man's skull. If one could have crawled through the crust of lava at Pompeii,
a year after the eruption, one might have felt somewhat as at Verdun now!

On a broken terrace, once a beloved evening promenade, our two cars paused. We got out and
gazed down, down over the River Meuse, from a high vantage-point where a few months ago, we
should have been blown to bits, in five minutes. Our two officers pointed out in the misty
autumn landscape spots where some of the fiercest and most famous fights had been. How the
names they rattled off brought back anxious nights and mornings when our first and only thoughts
had been the communiqués! "Desperate battle on the Meuse." "Splendid stand at Douaumont." "New
attack on Morthomme." But nothing we saw helped out our imaginings. There was just a vast stretch
of desolation where vinelands once had poured their perfume to the sun. The forts protecting
Verdun were as invisible as fairyland, I said. "As invisible as hell!" one of our guides amended.
And then to me, in a low voice unheard by pale and trembling Mother Beckett, he added, "If
Nature did not work to make ugly things invisible, we could not let you come here, Mademoiselle.
See how high the grass has grown in the plain down there! In summer it is full of poppies,
red as the blood that feeds their roots. And it is only the grasses and the poppies that hide
the bones of men we've never yet put underground. Nature has been one of our chief sextons,
here at Verdun. I wish you could have seen the poppies a few months ago, mixed with blue marguerites
and cornflowers--that we call 'bluets.' We used to say that our dead were lying in state under
the tricolour flag of France. But I have made you sad, Mademoiselle. Je regrette! We must take
you quickly to the citadel. Our general will not let you be sad there."

We turned from the view over the Meuse and walked away in silence. I thought I had never heard
so loud, so thunderously echoing, a silence in my life.

Oh, no, it was not sad in the citadel! It was, on the contrary, very gay, of a gaiety so gallant
and so pathetic that it brought a lump to the throat when there should have been a laugh on
the lips. But the lump had to be swallowed, or our hosts' feelings would be hurt. They didn't
want watery-eyed, full-throated guests at a luncheon worthy of bright smiles and keen appetites!

       *       *       *       *       *

The first thing that happened to Mother Beckett and me in the famous fortress was to be shown
into a room decorated as a ladies' boudoir. All had been done, we were told almost timidly,
in our honour, even the frescoes on the walls, painted in record time by a young lieutenant,
who was an artist; and the officers hoped that they had forgotten nothing we might need. We
could both have cried, if we hadn't feared to spoil our eyes and redden our noses! But even
if we'd not been strong enough to stifle our tears, there was everything at hand to repair
their ravages. And all this in a place where the Revolution had sent fourteen lovely ladies
to the guillotine for servilely begging the King of Prussia to spare Verdun.

The lieutenant who met us at Bar-le-Duc had rushed there in advance of us, in order to shop
with frantic haste. A long list must have been compiled after "mature deliberation"--as they
say in courts-martial--otherwise any normal young man would have missed out something. In the
tiny, subterranean room (not much larger than a cell) a stick of incense burned. The cot-bed
of some hospitable captain or major disguised itself as a couch, under a brand-new silk table-cover
with the price-mark still attached, and several small sofa cushions, also ticketed. A deal
table had been painted green and spread with a lace-edged tea-cloth, on which were proudly
displayed a galaxy of fittings from a dressing-bag, the best, no doubt, that poor bombarded
Bar-le-Duc could produce in war time. There were ivory-backed hair and clothes brushes; a comb;
bottles filled with white face-wash and perfume; a manicure-set, with pink salve and nail-powder;
a tray decked out with every size of hairpin; a cushion bristling with pins of many-coloured
heads; boxes of rouge, a hare's-foot to put it on with; face-powder in several tints; swan's-down
puffs; black pencils for the eyebrows and blue for the eyelids; sweet-smelling soap--a dazzling
and heavily fragrant collection.

"Oh, my dear, what did they think of us?" gasped Mother Beckett. "What a shame the poor lambs
should have wasted all their money and trouble!"

"It mustn't be wasted!" said I. "Think how disappointed they'd be if they came in here afterward
and found we hadn't touched a thing!"

"But----" she protested.

"You wouldn't hurt the feelings of the saviours of France? I'm going to make us both up! And
there's no time to waste. They've given us fifteen minutes' grace before lunch. For the honour
of womanhood we mustn't be late!"

I sat her down in the only chair. I dusted her pure little face with pearl-powder and the faintest
soupçon of rouge. I rubbed on her sweet lips just the suspicion of pink, liked by an elderly
grande dame française, who has not yet "abdicated." I then made myself up more seriously: a
blue shadow on the lids, a raven touch on the lashes; a flick of the hare's-foot under my eyes
and on my ear-tips: an extra coat of pink and a brilliant (most injurious!) varnish on the
nails. Then, with a dash of Rose Ambrée for my companion's blouse and Nuits d'Orient for mine,
we sallied forth scented like a harem, to do honour to our hosts.

Luncheon was in a vast cavern of a vaulted banqueting-hall, in the deepest heart of that citadel,
where for eleven years Napoleon kept his weary English prisoners. Electric lights showed us
a table adorned with fresh flowers (where they'd come from was a miracle, but soon we were
to see other miracles still more miraculous), French, British, and American flags, and pyramids
of fruit. The Rose Ambrée and Nuits d'Orient filled the whole vast salle, and pleased the officers,
I was sure. They bowed and smiled and paid us compliments, their many medals glittered in the
light, and their uniforms were resplendent against the cold background of the walls. I wished
that, instead of one girl, I had been a dozen! But I did my best and so did Mother Beckett,
who brightened into a charming second youth, the youth of a happy mother surrounded by a band
of sons.

The lumps that had been in our throats had to be choked sternly down, for not to do justice
to that meal would be worse than leaving the rouge and powder boxes unopened! The menu need
not have put a palace to shame. In the citadel of Verdun it seemed as if it must have been
evolved by rubbing Aladdin's lamp, and I said so as I read it over:

    Huîtres d'Ostende
    Bisque d'Écrevisses
    Sanglier rôti
    Purée de Pommes de Terre
    Soufflée de Chocolat
        Fruits
        Bonbons

"Oh, we've never been hungry at Verdun, even when things were at their liveliest," said the
officer sitting next to me. "Providence provided for us in a strange way. I will tell you how.
Before the civil population went away, or expected to go, there was talk of a long siege. The
shopkeepers thought they would be intelligent and sent to Paris for all sorts of food. Oh,
not only the grocers and butchers! Everyone. You would have laughed to see the jewellers showing
hams in their windows instead of diamonds and pearls and gold purses, and the piles of preserved
meat and fruit tins at the perfumers! The confectioners ordered stores of sugar and the wine
merchants restocked their cellars. Then things began to happen. Houses were bombed, and people
hustled out in a hurry. You have seen some of those houses! The place was getting too hot;
and the order came for evacuation. Not much could be taken away. Transport was difficult in
those days! All the good food had to be left behind, and we thought it would be a pity to waste
it. Our chief bought the lot at a reasonable price--merchants were thankful to sell. So you
see we did not need Aladdin's lamp."

"I don't quite see!" I confessed. "Because, that's a long time ago, and these oysters of Ostende----"

"Never saw Ostende!" he laughed. "They are a big bluff! We always have them when"--he bowed--"we
entertain distinguished guests. The Germans used to print in their papers that we at Verdun
could not hold out long, because we were eating rats. So we took to cutting a dash with our
menus. We do not go into particulars and say that our oysters have kept themselves fresh in tins!"

"But the wild boar?" I persisted. "Does one tin wild boar?"

"One does not! One goes out and shoots it. Ma foi, it's a good adventure when the German guns
are not asleep! The fruit? Ah, that is easy! It comes as the air we breathe. And for our bonbons,
the famous sugared almonds of Verdun were not all destroyed when the factory blew up."

With this he handed me a dish of the delicious things. "The story is," he said, "that a certain
Abbess brought the secret of making these almonds to Verdun. We have to thank Henry of Navarre
for her. He had a pleasant way, when he wished to be rid of an old love with a compliment,
of turning her into an Abbess. That time he made a lucky stroke for us."

At the end of luncheon we all drank healths, and nearly everyone made a speech except Mrs.
Beckett. She only nodded and smiled, looking so ideal a little mother that she must have made
even the highest officers homesick for their mamans.

Then we were led through a mysterious network of narrow passages and vaulted rooms, all lit
with electric lamps, and striking cold and cellary. We saw the big hospital, not very busy
just then, and the clean, empty operating theatre, and gnome-caverns where munitions were stored
in vast, black pyramids. When there was nothing left to see in the citadel, our hosts asked
if we would like to pay a visit to the trenches--old trenches which had once defended Thiaumont.

"I don't think my wife had better----" Mr. Beckett began; but the little old lady cut him short.
"Yes, Father, I just had better! To-day, being among all these splendid brave soldiers has
shown me that I'm weak--a spoiled child. I felt yesterday I'd been a coward. Now I know it!
And I'm going to see those trenches."

I believe it was partly the powder and lip salve that made her so desperate!

Her husband yielded, meek as a lamb. Big men like Mr. Beckett always do to little women like
Mrs. Beckett. But she bore it well. And when at last we bade good-bye to our glorious hosts,
she said to me, "Molly, you tell them in French, that now I've met them I understand why the
Germans could never pass!"

CHAPTER XVIII

Almost any place on earth would be an anti-climax the day after Verdun--but not Rheims!

Just at this moment (it mayn't be much more) Rheims is resting, like a brave victim on the
rack who has tired his torturers by an obstinate silence. Only a few people are allowed to
enter the town, save those who have lived there all along, and learned to think no more of
German bombs than German sausages; and those favoured few must slip in and out almost between
breaths. Any instant the torturing may begin again, when the Boches have bombs to spare for
what they call "target practice"; for think, how near is Laon!--and we'd been warned that,
even at the portals of the town, we might be turned back.

We had still another new French officer to take us to Rheims. (I am getting their faces a little
mixed, like a composite picture, but I keep sacredly all their dear visiting-cards!) He was
a captain, with a scarred but handsome face, and he complimented Mother Beckett and me on our
"courage." This made Father Beckett visibly regret that he had brought us, though he had been
assured that it was a "safe time." However, his was not the kind of regret which tempts a man
to turn back: it only makes his upper lip look long.

I never saw Rheims in palmy days of peace. Now I wish I had seen it! But there was that lithograph
of the cathedral by Gustave Simonau, the great Belgian artist, hanging above your desk, in
the den, Padre. I used to study it when I should have been studying my lessons, fascinated
by the splendid façade, the twin towers, the three "portals of the Trinity," the rose-window,
the gallery of kings, the angels, the saints, the gargoyles and all the carved stone lace-work
which the picture so wonderfully shows.

On the opposite side of the room was Simonau's Cathedral of Chartres, in a dark frame to match,
and I remember your saying that Chartres was considered by some critics even finer than Rheims.
The Cathedral of Chartres seemed a romantic monument of history to me, because it was built
as a shrine for the "tunic of the Virgin"; but the Gothic Notre-Dame of Rheims appealed to
my--perhaps prophetic--soul. Maybe I had a latent presentiment of how I should see the real
cathedral, as la grande blessée of the greatest war of the world.

Anyhow, I always took a deep interest in Rheims from the day I first gaped, an open-mouthed
child, at that beautiful drawing, and I was glad I'd forgotten none of its details, as we motored
toward the martyr town. Usually there's Brian, who can tell the dear Becketts all they don't
know and want to know, but this time they'd only me to depend upon. And when I think what a
cruel fraud I am at heart, there's some consolation in serving them, even in small ways.

There's a wide plain that knows desolately what German bombardment means: there are gentle
hills rising out of it, south and west (will grapes ever be sweet on those sad hillsides again?)
and there's the little river Vesle that runs into the Aisne. There's the Canal of the Aisne
and the Marne, too--oh, many wide waters and little streams, to breathe out mist, for Rheims
is on the pleasant Île-de-France. There was so much mist this autumn day that it hid from our
eyes for a long time the tall form of the Cathedral which should dominate the plain for many
miles; a thick, white mist like the sheet with which a sculptor veils his masterpiece until
it's ready to face the world. As we drove on, and still saw no looming bulk, frozen fear pinched
my heart, like horrid, ice-cold fingers. What if there'd been some new bombardment we hadn't
had time to hear of, and the Cathedral were gone?

But I didn't speak my fear. I tried to cover it up by chattering about Rheims. Goodness knows
there's a lot to chatter about! All that wonderful history, since Clovis was baptized by Saint
Remi; and Charlemagne crowned, and Charles the VII, with Jeanne d'Arc looking on in bright
armour, and various Capets, and enough other kings to name Notre-Dame of Rheims the "Cathedral
of Coronations." I remembered something about the Gate of Mars, too--the oldest thing of all--which
the Remi people put up in praise of Augustus Cæsar when Agrippa brought his great new roads
close to their capital. I think it had been called Durocoroturum up to that time--or some equally
awful name, which you remember only because you expect to forget! I hardly dared tell the Becketts
about the celebrated archiepiscopal palace where the kings used to be entertained by the archbishops
(successors of Saint Remi) while the coronation ceremonies were going on: and the Salle du
Tau with its wonderful hangings, its velvet-cushioned stone seats and carved, upright furniture,
where the royal guests--in robes stiff with jewelled embroidery--had their banquets from plates
of solid silver and gold. It seemed cruel to speak of splendours vanished forever, vanished
like the holy oil of the sacred phial brought from heaven by a dove for the baptism of Clovis,
and kept for the anointing of all those dead kings!

But it was just the time and place to talk about Attila--Attila the First, I mean, of whom,
as I told you, I firmly believe the present "incumbent" to be the reincarnation. As Attila
I. thought fit to put Rheims to the sword, Atilla II. is naturally impelled by the "spiral"
to do his best from a distance, by destroying the Cathedral which wasn't begun in his predecessor's
day. But what does he think, I wonder, about the prophecy? That in Rheims--scene of the first
German defeat on the soil of Gaul--Germany's last defeat will be celebrated, with great rejoicing
in the Cathedral she has tried to ruin?

Those words, "tried to ruin," I uttered rather feebly, holding forth to the Becketts, because
we had passed a long dark line of trees before which--we'd been told--we ought to see the Cathedral
rise triumphant against an empty background of sky. And still there was nothing!

Of course, I told myself, it must be the mist. But could mist be thick enough entirely to hide
a great mountain of a cathedral from eyes drawing nearer every minute? Then, suddenly, my question
was answered by the mist itself. I must have hypnotized it! A light wind, which we had thought
was made by the motor, cut like the shears of Lachesis through the woolly white web. A gash
of blue appeared and in the midst, floating as if it had died and gone to heaven, the Cathedral.

Yes, "died and gone to heaven!" That is just what has happened to Notre-Dame of Rheims. The
body has been martyred, but the soul is left alive--beautiful, brave soul of the old stones
of France!

"Oh!" went up from three voices in the motor-car. I think even our one-legged soldier-chauffeur
emitted a grunt of joy; and Mother Beckett clasped her hands on her little thin breast, as
if she were praying, such a wonderful sight it was, with the golden coronation of the noon-day
sun on the towers. Our officer-guide, in his car ahead, looked back as if to say, "I told you
so! They can't kill France, and Rheims is the very spirit and youth of France."

Not one of us spoke another word until we drove into the town, and began exclaiming with horror
and rage at what Attila II has done to the streets.

The mist had fallen again, not white in the town, but a pale, sad gray, like a mantle of half-mourning.
It hung over the spacious avenues and the once fine, now desolate, streets, which had been
the pride of Rheims; it slipped serpent-like through what remained of old arcades: it draped
the ancient Gate of Mars in the Place de la République as if to hide the cruel scars of the
bombardment; it lay like soiled snow on the mountain of tumbled stone which had been the Rue
St. Jacques; it curtained the "show street" of Rheims, the Rue de la Grue, almost as old as
the Cathedral itself, which a Sieur de Coucy began in 1212; trickling gray as glacier waters
over the fallen walls which artists had loved. It marbled with pale streaks the burned, black
corpse of the once famous Maison des Laines; it clouded the marvellous old church of St. Remi,
and when we came to the Cathedral--kept for the climax--it floated past the wounded statues
on the great western façade like an army of spirits--spirits of all those watching saints whom
the statues honoured.

The crowns of the broken towers we could not see, but at that height the mist was gilded by
the sun which sifted through so that each tower seemed to have its own faint golden halo.

"This effect comes often on these foggy autumn days, when the sun is high, about noontime,"
said our guide. "It's rather wonderful, isn't it? We have a priest-soldier invalided here now,
who used to be of the service in the Cathedral, before he volunteered to fight. He has written
some verses, which it seems came to him in a dream one night. Whether the world would think
them fine I do not know, but at Rheims we like them. The idea is that Jeanne d'Arc has mobilized
the souls of the saints who protect Rheims, to bless and console the Cathedral, which they
were not permitted to save from outward ruin. It is she who gilds the mist on the towers with
a prophecy of hope. As for the mist itself, according to the poet, it is no common fog. It
is but the cloak worn by this army of saints to visit their cathedral, and bathe its wounds
with their cool white hands, so that at last, when peace dawns, there shall be a spiritual
beauty found in the old marred stones--a beauty they never had in their prime."

"I should like to see that soldier-priest!" said Father Beckett, when I had translated for
him the officer's description of the poem. "Couldn't we meet him? What's his name?"

I passed on the questions to our captain of the scarred face. "The man's name is St. Pol,"
he told us. "You can see from that he comes of an old family. If it had been this day last
week you could have met him. He would have been pleased. But--since then--alas! Mademoiselle,
it is impossible that he should be seen. It would be too sad for you and your friends."

"He has been wounded in some bombardment?" I exclaimed.

"Not wounded--no. We don't think much of wounds. What has happened is sadder than wounds. Some
day the man may recover. We hope so. But at present he--is out of everything, dead in life."

"What happened?" I gasped.

"Oh, it is quite a history!" said the Captain. "But it begins a long time ago, when the Germans
came to Rheims in 1914. Perhaps it would fatigue you? Besides, you have to translate, which
takes double the time. I might write out the story and send it, Mademoiselle, if you like.
You and your friends are not as safe here as in your own houses, I do not disguise that from
you! The Germans have let us rest these last few days. Yet who can tell when they may choose
to wake us up with a bomb or two?"

"I don't think we're afraid," I said, and consulted the Becketts. The little old lady answered
for both. She was stoutly sure they were not afraid! "We shouldn't deserve to be Jim's parents
if we were--of a thing like that! You tell the Captain, Molly, we're getting used to bombs,
and we want the story right here, on the spot!"

"C'est très chic, ça!" remarked the Captain, eyeing the mite of a woman. He stood for a minute,
his scarred face pale in the mist, his eyes fixed thoughtfully on a headless stone king. Then
he began his story of the soldier-priest.

Monsieur le Curé de St. Pol was very young when the war began--almost as young as a curé can
be. He did not think, at first, to become a soldier, for he hated war. But, indeed, in those
early days he had no time to think at all. He only worked--worked, to help care for the wounded
who were pouring into Rheims, toward the last of August, 1914. Many were brought into the Cathedral,
where they lay on the floor, on beds of straw. The Curé's duty was among these. He had relations
in Rheims--a family of cousins of the same name as his. They lived in a beautiful old house,
one of the best in Rheims, with an ancient chapel in the garden. There was an invalid father,
whose wife devoted her life to him, and a daughter--a very beautiful young girl just home from
a convent-school the spring before the war broke out. There was a son, too--but naturally,
he was away fighting.

This young girl, Liane de St. Pol, was one of many in Rheims who volunteered to help nurse
the wounded. All girls brought up in convents have some skill in nursing, you know!

While she and the Curé were at work in the Cathedral, among the wounded men who came in were
her own brother, a lieutenant, and his best friend, a captain of his regiment. Both were badly
hurt--the St. Pol boy worse than his friend. Yet even for him there was hope--if he could have
had the best of care--if he could have been taken home and lovingly nursed there. That was
not possible. The surgeons had no time for house-to-house visits. He was operated on in the
Cathedral, and as he lay between life and death, news came that the Germans were close to Rheims.

In haste the wounded were sent to Épernay--to save them from being made prisoners. But some
could not go: Louis de St. Pol and his friend Captain Jean de Visgnes. De Visgnes might have
been hidden in the St. Pol house but he would not leave the boy, who could not be moved so
far. The Curé vowed to hide both, and he did hide them in a chapel of the Cathedral itself.
On September 3, at evening, the first Germans rode into the town and took up their quarters
in the Municipal Palace, where they forced the Mayor, a very old man, to live with them. It
was a changed Rheims since the day before. The troops of the garrison had gone in the direction
of Épernay, since there was no hope of defence. Many rich people had fled, taking what they
could carry in automobiles or cabs. The poor feared a siege--or worse: they knew not what.
The St. Pol family received into their house a number of women whose husbands were at the Front,
and their babies. No one ventured out who could stay indoors. The city filled up with German
soldiers, with the Kaiser's son, Prince August Wilhelm, at their head. They, too, had wounded.
The Cathedral was put to use for them, and the Curé cared for the Boches as he had cared for
the French. This gave him a chance, at night, to nurse his two friends. So dragged on seven
days, which seemed seven years; and then rumours drifted in of a great German retreat, a mysterious
failure in the midst of seeming victory. The Battle of the Marne was making itself felt. In
rage and bewilderment the Germans poured out of Rheims, leaving only their wounded behind.
The townspeople praised God, and thought their trial was over. But it was only just begun!
On the 16th the bombardment opened. The Germans knew that their wounded still lay in the Cathedral,
but they did not seem to care for men out of the fighting line. A rain of bombs fell in the
town--one of the first wrecked the Red Cross ambulance--and many struck the Cathedral. Then
came the night when the straw bedding blazed, and fire poured through the long naves, rising
to the roof.

The Curé told afterward how wonderful the sight was with the jewelled windows lighting up for
the last time, before the old glass burst with the shrill tinkle of a million crystal bells.
He and Jean de Visgnes carried Louis de St. Pol out into the street, but the boy died before
they reached his father's house, and De Visgnes had a dangerous relapse. It was on this night
that the Curé made up his mind to volunteer, and soon he was at the Front. Nearly three years
passed before he and De Visgnes met again, both en permission, travelling back to Rheims to
pass their "perm." Jean was now engaged to Liane de St. Pol who, with her parents, had remained
in the bombarded town, refusing to desert their poor protegées. The two planned to marry, after
the war; but Liane had been struck by a flying fragment of shell, and wounded in the head.
De Visgnes could bear the separation no longer. He made the girl promise to marry him at once--in
the chapel of the old house, as she was still suffering, and forbidden to go out. His leave
had been granted for the wedding, and the moment Liane was strong enough she and the old people
would leave Rheims. Jean was to take them himself to his own home in Provence. The Curé was
to marry his cousin to the man whose life he had saved.

Many children of the poor whom Liane had helped decorated the chapel with flowers, and though
the wedding-day was one of fierce bombardment, no one dreamed of putting off the ceremony.
No fine shops for women's dress were open in Rheims, but the bride wore her mother's wedding-gown
and veil of old lace. None save the family were asked to the marriage, because it was dangerous
to go from house to house; yet all Rheims loved Liane, and meant to wish happiness for bride
and bridegroom as the chapel-bells chimed for their union. But the bells began and never finished.
At the instant when Liane de St. Pol and Jean de Visgnes became man and wife a bomb fell on
the chapel roof. The tiles collapsed like cards, and all the bridal party was killed as by
a lightning stroke. Only the soldier-priest was spared. Strangely, he was not even touched.
But horror had driven him mad. Since then he spoke only to rave of Liane and Jean; how beautiful
they had looked, lying dead before the wrecked altar.

"The doctors say it is like a case of shell-shock," the Captain finished. "They think he'll
recover. But at present, as I said--it is a sad affair. Sad for him--not for those who died
together, suffering no pain. One of the Curé's favourite sayings used to be, they tell me,
'Death is not an end, but a beginning.'"

"You know him well?" I asked.

"Yes. I was stationed in Rheims before the war. I used to dance with Liane when she came home
from school."

"Ah, if only her family hadn't stayed here till too late!" I cried.

The captain with the scarred face shrugged his shoulders. "Destiny!" he said. "Besides, the
best people do not run away easily from the homes they love. Perhaps they have the feeling
that, in a home which has always meant peace, nothing terrible can happen. Yet there's more
in it than that--something more subtle which keeps them in the place where they have always
lived: something, I think, that binds the spirits of us Frenchmen and women to the spirit of
their own hearths--their own soil. Haven't you found that already, in other places you have
visited in this journey of yours?"

"Yes," I answered, thinking of the old people I had seen at Vitrimont living in the granaries
of their ruined houses, and strangely, unbelievably happy because they were "at home." "Yes,
we have seen that in little villages of Lorraine."

"Then how much more at Rheims, under the shadow of Notre-Dame!" The scarred captain still gazed
at the headless king, and faintly smiled.

CHAPTER XIX

Of course nothing did happen in Paris to break up the party. I might have known that nothing
would. Nothing happened at all, except that I received a letter from Doctor Herter with the
promised introduction to an oculist just now at the Front, and that I realized, after three
days' absence, how Brian is improving. He has less the air of a beautiful soul, whose incarnation
in a body is a mere accident, and more the look of a happy, handsome young man, with a certain
spiritual radiance which makes him remarkable and somehow "disturbing," as the French say.
If anything could stop the rats gnawing my conscience, it would be this blessed change. Brian
is getting back health and strength. When I think what a short time ago it is that his life
hung in the balance, this seems a miracle. I'm afraid I am glad--glad that I did the thing
which has given him his chance. Besides, I love the Becketts. So does Brian. And they love
us. It's difficult to remember that I've stolen their love. Surely, they're happier with us
than they could have been without us? Brian's scheme for their visits to the liberated towns
is doing good to them and to hundreds--even thousands--of people whom they intend to help.

All this is sophistry, no doubt, but oh, it's beguiling sophistry! It's so perfectly disguised
that I seldom recognize it except at night when I lie awake, and it sits on my bed, without
its becoming mask.

Being the Becketts' adviser-in-chief, and having his lungs full of ozone every day should be
enough to account for Brian's improvement. Yet--well, I can't help thinking that he takes a
lot more trouble than he need for Dierdre O'Farrell. Oh, not that he's in love! Such an idea
is ridiculous, but he's interested and sorry for the girl, because she goes about with a chip
on her shoulder, defying the world to knock it off. He won't admit that it's the fault of her
outlook on the world, and that the poor old world isn't to blame at all.

What if he knew the truth about that brother and sister? Naturally I can't tell him, of all
people on earth, and they take advantage of my handicap. They've used their time well, in my
absence, when they had Brian to themselves. He had his doubts of Julian, but the creature has
sung himself into my blind brother's heart. From what I hear, the three have spent most of
their time at the piano in the private salon which the Becketts invited the O'Farrells to engage.

Now, as I write, we are making our headquarters in Compiègne, sleeping there, and sightseeing
by day on what they call the "Noyon Front."

After Rheims and before Noyon we stopped three days in Paris instead of one, as we'd planned,
for Mother Beckett was tired. She wouldn't confess it, but "Father" thought she looked pale.
Strange if she had not, after such experiences and emotions! Sometimes, when I study the delicate
old face, with blue hollows under kind, sweet eyes, I ask myself: "Will she be able to get
through the task she's set herself?" But she is so quietly brave, not only in fatigue, but
in danger, that I answer my own question: "Yes, she will do it somehow, on the reserve force
that kept her up when Jim died."

The road from Paris, past Senlis, to Compiègne, was even more thrilling than the road to Nancy
and beyond, for this was the way the Germans took in September, 1914, when they thought the
capital was theirs to have and hold: "la route de l'Allemagne" it used to be called, but never
will French lips give it that name again.

Just at first, running out of the city in early morning, things looked much the same as when
starting for Nancy: the unnatural quiet of streets once crammed with busy traffic for feeding
gay Paris; military motors of all sorts and sizes, instead of milk wagons and cartloads of
colourful fruits; women working instead of men; children on their way to school, sedately talking
of "papa au Front," instead of playing games. But outside the suburbs the real thrills began.

There were the toy-like fortifications of which Paris was proud in the 'fifties; there was
the black tangle of barbed wire, and the trace of trenches (a mere depression on the earth's
surface, as if a serpent had laid its heavy length on a great, green velvet cushion) with which
Paris had hoped to delay the German wave. Only a little way on, we shot through the sleepy-looking
village of Bourget where Napoleon stopped a few hours after Waterloo, rather than enter Paris
by daylight; and Brian had a story of the place. A French soldier, a friend of his (nearly
everyone he meets is Brian's friend!) who was born there, told him that on each anniversary
the ghost of the "Little Corporal" appears, travel-stained and worn, on the road leading to
Bourget. For many years his custom was to show himself for a second to some seeing eye, then
vanish like a mirage of the desert. But since 1914 his way is different. He does not confine
his visit to the hamlet of sad memories. He walks the country side, his hands behind him, his
head bent as of old; or he rides a horse that is slightly lame, inspecting with thoughtful
gaze the frenzied industries of war, war such as he--the war-genius--never saw in his visions
of the future: the immense aerodromes, the bomb sheds, the wireless stations and observation
towers, the giant "saucisses" resting under green canvas, ready to rise at dawn; and all the
other astounding features of the landscape so peaceful in his day.

Even now parts of it are peaceful, often the very spots marked by history, where it seems as
if each tree should be decorated by a Croix de Guerre. For instance, there was the place--a
junction of roads--where the Uhlans with a glitter of helmets came proudly galloping toward
Paris, and to their blank amazement and rage had to turn back. As we halted to take in the
scene, it was mysterious as dreamland in the morning mist. Nothing moved save two teams of
cream-coloured oxen, their moon-white sides dazzling behind a silver veil. The pale road stretched
before us so straight and far that it seemed to descend from the sky like a waterfall. Only
the trees had a martial look, like tall, dark soldiers drawn up in line for parade.

It was not till we plunged into forest depths that I said to myself: "We must be coming near
Senlis!" For the very name "Senlis" fills the mind with forest pictures. No wonder, since it
lies walled away from the outer world--like the Sleeping Beauty--by woods, and woods, and woods:
the forests of Hallette, Chantilly, and Ermenonville, each as full of history as it is now
of aromatic scents, and used to be of wild boars for kings to kill!

I think the best of the forest pictures has Henri de Navarre for its principal figure. Brian
and I turned over the pages of our memory for the Becketts, who listened like children to fairy
tales--or as we listened when you used to embroider history for us in those evening causeries
in the dear old "den," Padre.

I dug up the story about Henri at twenty-one, married more than a year to beautiful, lively
Marguerite de Valois, and enduring lazily the despotism of his mother-in-law. There in the
old palace of the Louvre, he loitered the time away, practically a prisoner until the only
friend he had with courage to speak out (Agrippa d'Aubigny) gave him a lecture. Agrippa lashed
his master with the words "coward" and "sluggard," letting his faithful servants work for his
interests while he remained the slave of a "wicked old witch." The Béarnais had been biding
his time--"crouching to spring": but that slap in the face set him on fire. He could no longer
wait for the right moment. He decided to make the first moment the right one. His quick brain
mapped out a plan of escape in which the sole flaw was that he must leave behind his brilliant
bride. With eight or ten of his greatest, most loyal gentlemen, he arranged to hunt in the
forest of Senlis; and he had shown himself so biddable, so boyish, that at first even Catherine
de Medicis did not suspect him. It was only when the party had set forth that the plot burst
like a bomb, in Catherine's own boudoir, where she sat with her favourite son, vile Henri III
of France.

Fervacques, one of the plotters, had stopped in Paris, feigning illness. The plan had been
concocted in his rooms, and he but waited for Navarre's back to be turned to betray him. Marguerite
laughed when she heard (perhaps she was in the secret), but Catherine said evil words, of which
she knew a great many--especially in Italian. Orders were given for the gates of Paris to be
shut (gates that in those days barred the road along which we now motored), but they were too
late. Navarre and his hunters had passed through. Agrippa d'Aubigny was not among them. His
part had been to watch the happenings of the Court, and join Navarre later in his own kingdom,
but that hope was broken. Disguised as a mignon of Henri III, he slipped out of Paris on a
fast horse, tore after the Béarnais and his equerries, and caught the cavalcade in the forest.
"Thou art betrayed!" he cried.

"But not captured!" laughed Navarre.

In haste they substituted a new plot for the old. The young king was to pretend ignorance of
the betrayal. He installed himself accordingly in the best lodgings of Senlis, talking loudly
about hunting prospects, arranged to see a performance by travelling actors, and sent such
a message back to Catherine and Henri that they believed Fervacques had fooled them.

By the time they'd waked to the truth, Navarre had ridden safely out of Senlis with his friends,
bound for the kingdom on the Spanish border. Even then he was a man of big ambitions; so maybe
he said to himself, looking back at Senlis: "I shall travel this road again, as king of France,
to enter Paris in triumph." Anyhow, he was grateful to Senlis for saving him, and stayed there
often, as Henri Quatre, flirting with pretty ladies, and inviting them to become abbesses when
he tired of them.

Lots of things have happened in Senlis, because it's on the road to Paris, and for centuries
has been getting into someone's way. Why, if it hadn't been for Senlis, William the Conqueror
might never have conquered! You see, before William's day, Count Bernard of Senlis (who boasted
himself a forty-second grandson or something of Charlemagne) quarrelled with King Louis IV
of France. To spite him, Bernard adopted the baby son of William Longsword, Duke of Normandy,
killed in battle; for Normandy was a "thorn in the eye" of France. Thanks to Bernard's help
Normandy gained in riches and importance. By the time William, son of Robert the Devil and
Arlette of Falaise, appeared on the scene, the dukedom was a power in the world, and William
was able to dare his great enterprise.

But that was only one incident. Senlis was already an old, old town, and as much entitled to
call itself a capital of France as was Paris. Not for nothing had the Gallo-Romans given it
walls twenty feet high and thirteen feet thick! They could not have builded better had they
meant to attract posterity's attention, and win for their strong city the admiration of kings.
Clovis was the first king who fancied it, and settled there. But not a king who followed, till
after the day of Henri Quatre, failed to live in the castle which Clovis began. Henry V of
England married Bonny Kate in the château; Charles VIII of France and Maximilian of Austria
signed a treaty within its walls; Francis I finished Notre-Dame of Senlis. The Duke of Bedford
fought Joan of Arc there, and she was helped by the Maréchal Rais, no other than Bluebeard;
so "Sister Anne" must have gazed out from some neighbouring tower for the "cloud of dust in
the distance." Somewhere in the vast encircling forests the Babes in the Wood were buried by
the birds, while the wicked uncle reigned in their father's place at Senlis. In 1814 Prussian,
Russian, and British soldiers marched through the town on their tramp to Paris. Cossacks and
Highlanders were the "strangest sight" Senlis had ever seen, though it had seen many; but a
hundred years later it was to see a stranger one yet.

If ever a place looked made for peace, that place is Senlis, on its bright little river Nonette--child
of the Oise--and in its lovely valley. That was what I said as we slowed down on the outskirts:
but ah, how the thought of peace broke as we drove along the "kings' highway"--the broad Rue
de la République! In an instant the drama of September 2nd--eve of the Marne battle--sprang
to our eyes and knocked at our hearts. We could smell the smoke, and see the flames, and hear
the shots, the cries of grief and rage, the far-off thunder of bridges blown up by the retreating
French army. Suddenly we knew how the people of Senlis had suffered that day, and--strangely,
horribly--how the Germans had felt.

Senlis hadn't realized--wouldn't let itself realize--even during bombardment, what its fate
might be. It had been spared, as an open town, in 1870; and since then, through long, prosperous
years of peace a comfortable conviction had grown that only pleasant things could happen. Why,
it was the place of pleasure, reaping a harvest of fame and money from its adventurous past!
Tourists came from all the world over to put up at the Hôtel du Grand Cerf, once the hunting
lodge of kings. They came to loiter in narrow old streets whose very names were echoes of history;
to study the ruins of the Roman arena and the ancient walls; to hunt in the forest, as royal
men and ladies had hunted when stags and wild boar had been plentiful as foxes and rabbits;
or to motor from one neighbouring château to another. Surely even Germans could not doom such
a town to destruction. To be sure, some people did fly when a rabble of refugees from Compiègne
poured past, hurrying south; and others fled from the bombardment when big guns, fired from
Lucien Bonaparte's old village of Chamant, struck the cathedral. But many stayed for duty's
sake, or because they believed obstinately that to their bit of the Île-de-France no tragedy
could come.

They didn't know yet that Von Kluck and his men were drunk with victory, and that flaming towns
were for the German army bonfires of triumph. They didn't know that the Kaiser's dinner was
ordered in Paris for a certain date, and that at all costs Paris must be cowed to a speedy
peace, lest the dinner be delayed. "Frightfulness" was the word of command, and famous old
Senlis was to serve as a lesson to Paris.

But somehow the German master of Senlis's heart weakened when the crucial moment came. He was
at the Hôtel du Grand Cerf, where a dinner was being prepared by scared servants for thirty
German officers. The order was about to be signed when suddenly a curé, small and pale, but
lion-brave, entered the room. How he got in no one knew! Surprise held the general tongue-tied
for three seconds; and a French curé is capable of much eloquence in three seconds.

He gambled--if a curé may gamble!--on the chance of his man being Catholic--and he won. That
is why (so they told us in the same room three years later) Senlis was struck with many sore
wounds, but not exterminated; that is why only the Maire and a few citizens were murdered instead
of all; that is why in some quarters of Senlis the people who have come back can still dream
that nothing happened to their dear haunt of peace on September 2, 1914.

Even if Senlis had fallen utterly, before the Germans turned in their tracks, Paris would not
have been "cowed." As it was, Paris and all France were roused to a redoubled fury of resistance
by the fate of the Senlis "hostages." So these men did not die in vain.

The scars of Senlis are still unhealed. Whole streets are blackened heaps of ruin, and there
are things that "make you see red," as Father Beckett growled. But the thing which left the
clearest picture in my brain was a sight sweet as well as sad: a charming little château, ruined
by fire, yet pathetically lovely in martyrdom; the green trellis still ornamenting its stained
façade, a few autumn roses peeping with child-like curiosity into gaping window-eyes; a silent
old gardener raking the one patch of lawn buried under blackened tiles and tumbled bricks.
The man's figure was bent, yet I felt that there was hope as well as loyalty in his work. "They
will come back home some day," was the expression of that faithful back.

In the exquisite beauty of the forest beyond Senlis there was still--for me--this note of hope.
"Where beauty is, sadness cannot dwell for ever!" As we rushed along in the big car, the delicate
gray trunks of clustering trees seemed to whirl round and round before our eyes, as in a votive
dance of young priestesses. We saw bands of German prisoners toiling gnome-like in dim glades,
but they didn't make us sad again. Au contraire! We found poetical justice in the thought that
they, the cruel destroyers of trees, must chop wood and pile faggots from dawn to dusk.

So we came to Compiègne, where the French army has its headquarters in one of the most famous
châteaux in the world.

CHAPTER XX

It took a mere glance (even if we hadn't known beforehand) to see that noble Compiègne craved
no Beckett charity, no American adoption.

True, German officers lived for twelve riotous days in the palace, in 1914, selecting for home
use many of its treasures, and German "non-coms." filled vans with rare antiques from the richest
mansions; still, they had no time, or else no inclination, to disfigure the town. The most
sensational souvenir of those days before the Marne battle is a couple of broken bridges across
the Oise and Aisne, blown up by the French in the hour of their retreat. But that strange sight
didn't break on our eyes as we entered Compiègne. We seemed to have been transported by white
magic from mystic forest depths to be plumped down suddenly in a city square, in front of a
large, classical palace. It's only the genie of motoring who can arrange these startling contrasts!

If we took Brian's advice, and "played" that our autos were old-fashioned coaches; if we looked
through, instead of at, the dozen military cars lined up at the palace gates; if we changed
a few details of the soldiers' uniforms, the gray château need not have been Army Headquarters
in our fancy. For us, the Germans might cease from troubling and the war-weary be at rest,
while we skipped back to any century we fancied.

Of course, Louis XV, son-in-law of our old friend Stanislas of Lorraine, built the château;
and Napoleon the Great added a wing in honour of his second bride, Marie Louise. But why be
hampered by details like that? Charles V built a castle at this old Roman Compendium, on the
very spot where all those centuries later Louis XV erected his Grecian façades; and Henri of
Navarre often came there, in his day. One of Henri's best romances he owed to Compiègne; and
while we were having what was meant to be a hurried luncheon, Mother Beckett made Brian tell
the story. You know Brian came to Compiègne before the war and painted in the palace park,
where Napoleon I and Napoleon III used to give their fêtes-champêtres; and he says that the
picture is clear as ever "behind his eyes."

Once upon a time, Henri was staying in the château, very bored because weather had spoiled
the hunting. Suddenly appeared the "handsomest young man of Prance," the Duc de Bellegarde,
Henri's equerry, who had been away on an adventure of love. Somehow, he'd contrived to meet
Gabrielle d'Estrées, almost a child, but of dazzling beauty. She hid him for three days, and
then, alas, a treacherous maid threatened to tell Gabrielle's father. Bellegarde had to be
smuggled out of the family castle--a rope and a high window. The tale amused Henri; and the
girl's portrait fired him. He couldn't forget; and later, having finished some business at
Senlis (part of which concerned a lady) he laid a plan to cut Bellegarde out. When the Equerry
begged leave from Compiègne to visit Gabrielle again, Henri consented, on condition that he
might be the duke's companion.

Bellegarde had to agree; and Henri fell in love at sight with the golden hair, blue eyes, and
rose-and-white skin of "Gaby." She preferred Bellegarde to the long-nosed king; but the Béarnais
was never one to take "no" for an answer. He went from Compiègne again and again to the forbidden
castle, in peril of his life from Guise and the League. After a wild adventure, in disguise
as a peasant with a bundle of straw on his head, his daring captured the girl's fancy. She
was his; and he was hers, writing sonnets to "Charmante Gabrielle," making Marguerite furious
by giving to the new love his wife's own Abbey of St. Corneille, at Compiègne. (One can still
see its ruins!)

I said we meant to eat quickly and go for an afternoon of sightseeing--for early to-morrow
(I'm writing late at night) we're due at Noyon. But Brian remembered so many bits about Compiègne,
that by tacit consent we lingered and listened. When he was here last, he did a sketch of Henri
and Gabrielle hunting in the forest; "Gaby" pearl-fair in green satin, embroidered with silver;
on her head the famous hat of velvet-like red taffetas, which cost Henri two hundred crowns.
Perhaps she carried in her hand one of the handkerchiefs for which she paid what other women
pay for dresses; but Brian's sketches are too "impressionist" to show handkerchiefs! Anyhow,
her hand was in the king's, for that was her way of riding with her gray-clad lover; though
when she went alone she rode boldly astride. Poor Henri couldn't say nay to the becoming green
satin and red hat, though he was hard up in those days. After paying a bill of Gaby's, he asked
his valet how many shirts and handkerchiefs he had. "A dozen shirts, torn," was the answer.
"Handkerchiefs, five."

