  And all that company started back; first AZRAEL grimly smiled,
  The smile that an East-End Coster smiles, by a stout policeman
          riled;
  And BUDDHA made no remark at all, but nodded his heavy head,
  Like a boy who has eaten too much dessert, and wants to be put to
          bed.

  And the Muses Nine, as they stood in line, they shuddered and
          turned to go.
  "A joke's a joke, but I can't bear fleas," said CLIO to ERATO.
  And the Graces, the good Conservative Three, shrank back to a spot
          remote,
  And observed that they knew that this would come from letting the
          Masses vote.

  Then AZRAEL spake--"On the Stygian lake I floated a half-sinned sin
  On the crest of a cross-grained stickleback, that is caught with a
          crooked pin;
  For a year and a day I watched it whirl, but never that sin could be
  One-half so base as your gruesome face, O Soul of a Sundered Flea!

  "What ill have ye done? Speak up, speak up!--for this is no place,
          I trow,
  For the puling people on virtue fed. So speak, or prepare to go."
  But the Flea flew free from the pincers' grip, and uttered a
          single phrase--
  "I have lived on blood, as a gentleman should, and that is my
          claim to praise."

  Then a shout of joy from the throng went forth; they built him a
          crystal throne,
  And there in his pride, with none beside, he rules and he reigns
          alone.
  And this is the tale which I here set down, as the story was told
          to me--
  In excellent Rudyard-Kipling verse--the tale of the Sundered Flea.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTICIPATORY NEWS (from Our Own Court Tripping Newsman).--Sir ALGERNON BORTHWICK, Bart, M.P.,
will be raised to the Peerage with the title of Lord MORNINGPOST, of Penniwise, Seefarshire, N.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Anti-lawn-tennis Lady considers that the argument against Croquet, as a game involving a
bent back, and a narrowing of the chest, is merely "A very stoopit objection."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Royal Agricultural Society's Journal. A Society Journal of a peculiar character, of which
this is the Third Series and Third Volume. It is noticeable for Lord CATHCART's appeal for
the wild birds, which, as addressed to farmers and farm-labourers and armed ploughboys, may
be summed up by an adaptation of the refrain of the remonstrance--so frequently urged by one
of Lieutenant COLE's funny figures--"Can't you let the birds alone?" Then Mr. HASTING "On Vermin,"
which doesn't sound nice, though better than if the title were vice versâ,--is most interesting,
especially where he tells us that "shrews are harmless." If so, why did SHAKSPEARE give us
"The Taming of the Shrew" as such a feat? Professor BROWN writes about disease in sheep, of
which paper Lord ARTHUR WEEDON DE GROSSMITH would be absolutely correct in observing, "What
rot!" And, by the way, à propos of WEEDON, the Baron has to congratulate the Brothers GROSSMITH
on their Diary of a Nobody, republished from Mr. Punch's pages, but with considerable additions.
The Diary is very funny, not a page of it but affords matter for a good laugh; and yet the
story is not without a touch of pathos, as it is impossible not to pity the steady, prim, old-fashioned
jog-trot NOBODY, whose son, but just one remove above a regular 'ARRY, treats him with such
unfilial rudeness.

It has been complained that the late General Election has not been amusing, and has given birth
to little fun. Let those who feel this most acutely read Mr. R.C. LEHMANN's The "Billsbury
Election (Leaves from the Diary of a Candidate)." He will tell you how Mr. RICHARD B. PATTLE
contested Billsbury in the Constitutional Interest; how he "buttered up Billsbury like fun,"
was badgered by Billsbury, heckled by Billsbury, taxed, tithed and tormented by Billsbury,
and eventually "chucked" by Billsbury, by the aggravatingly small majority of seventeen. Also
how his "Mother bore up like a Trojan, and said she was prouder of me than ever." Just so.

  I hold it true whate'er befall,
  I wrote so, to the Morning Post;
  'Tis better to have "run" and lost,
  Than never to have run at all.

"Modern Types" and "Among the Amateurs" are well known to the readers of Punch. But lovers
of C.S. CALVERLEY--that is to say, all but a very few ill-conditioned critical creatures--and
of neat verse with a sting to it, should turn to p. 203 (A.C.S. v. C.S.C.), and read and enjoy
the smart slating Mr. LEHMANN administers to tumid, tumultuous, thrasonic, turncoatist ALGERNON
CHARLES SWINBURNE, for saying of the brilliant and well-beloved Author of Fly Leaves, &c.,
that he--forsooth!--is "monstrously overrated and preposterously overpraised"!!! BARON DE B.-W.
& Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

WANTED IN THE LAW COURTS.

A Junior who will wear his gown straight, and not pretend that intense preoccupation over dummy
briefs prevents him from knowing that it is off one shoulder.

A Judge who can resist the temptation to utter feeble witticisms, and to fall asleep.

A Witness who answers questions, and incidentally tells the truth.

A Jury who do not look supremely silly, and ridiculously self-conscious, when directly addressed
or appealed to by Counsel; or one that really understands that the Judge's politeness is only
another and subtle form of self-glorification.

A Q.C. who is not "eminent," who does not behave "nobly," and who can avoid the formula "I
suggest to you," in cross-examination; or one that does not thunder from a lofty and inaccessible
moral altitude so soon as a nervous Witness blunders or contradicts himself.

An Usher who does not try to induce the general public, especially the female portion thereof,
to mistake him for the Lord Chancellor.

A Solicitor who does not strive to appear coram populo on terms of quite unnecessarily familiar
intercourse with his leading Counsel.

An Articled Clerk who does not dress beyond his thirty shillings a-week, and think that the
whole Court is lost in speculation as to the identity of that distinguished-looking young man.

An Associate who does not go into ecstasies of merriment over every joke or obiter dictum from
the Bench.

Anybody who does not give loud expression to the opinion at the nearest bar when the Court
rises, that he could have managed the case for either or both sides infinitely better than
the Counsel engaged.

A Court-house whose atmosphere is pleasant and invigorating after the Court has sat for fifteen
minutes.

(Anyone concerned who, on reading these remarks in print, will think that the cap can, by any
scintilla of possibility, fit himself.)

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

JUSTICE FOR 'FRISCO.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I notice that a complaint has been made that those charming stories of wild
life in the Far West, are out of date. Nay, more, that they are calculated to do a great deal
of harm to a considerable amount of valuable property. On the other hand, the talented authors
of the picturesque romances to which I have referred, insist that there is a great demand for
these literary wares, and they would suffer much loss if they were to discontinue their production.

