Barclay stood before him a second and then walked down one arm of the "X" of the carpet and
back, and up another, and then turned to Hendricks with: "Now, don't lose your nerve, General.
You've got to keep your nerve. That's about all the asset we've got now, I guess."

The general replied weakly: "I--I, I--I guess you're right, John. I suppose that's about it."

"How do you figure it out, General?" asked Barclay, still walking the carpet.

The general fumbled for a paper in his pocket and handed it to Barclay. He took it, glanced
at it a moment, and then said: "I'm no good at translating another man's figures--how is it
in short?--Right down to bed-rock?"

Hendricks seemed to pull himself together and replied: "Well, something like ten thousand in
cash against seventy thousand in deposits, and fifty thousand of that time deposits, due next
October, you know, on the year's agreement. Of the ten thousand cash, four thousand belongs
to Brownwell, and is on check, and you have two thousand on check."

"All right. Now, General, what do you owe?"

"Well, you know that guarantee of your and Bob's business--that nine thousand. It's due next week."

"And it will gut you?" asked Barclay.

The old man nodded and sighed. Barclay limped carefully all over his "X," swinging himself
on his heels at the turns; his mouth was hardening, and his eyes were fixed on the old man
without blinking as he said: "General--that's got to come. If it busts you--it will save us,
and we can save you after. That has just absolutely got to be paid, right on the dot."

The old man could not have turned paler than he was when he entered the room, but he rose halfway
in his chair and shook his leonine head, and then let his hands fall limply on his knees as
he cried: "No--no, John--I can't. I can't."

Barclay put his hand on the back of the old man's chair, and he could feel the firm hard grip
of the boy through his whole frame. Then after a moment's pause Barclay said: "General, I'm
in earnest about that. You will either mail those dividend certificates according to your guarantee
on the first, or as sure as there is a God in heaven I'll see that you won't have a dollar
in your bank on the night of the second."

The old man stood gasping. The eyes of the two men met. Barclay's were bold and green and blazing.

"Boy! Boy! Boy!--" the old man faltered. "Don't ruin me! Don't ruin me--" he did not finish
the sentence, but sank into his chair, and dropped his face to his breast and repeated, "Don't,
don't, don't," feebly for a few times, without seeming to realize what he was saying. From
some outpost of his being reinforcements came. For he rose suddenly, and shaking his haggard
fist at the youth, exclaimed in a high, furious, cracking voice as he panted and shook his
great hairy head: "No--by God, no, by God, no! You damned young cut-throat--you can break my
bank, but you can't bulldoze me. No, by God--no!" He started to leave the room. Barclay caught
the old man and swung him into a chair. The flint that Barclay's nature needed had been struck.
His face was aglow as with an inspiration.

"Listen, man, listen!" Barclay cried. "I'm not going to break your bank, I'm trying to save
it." He knew that the plan was ripe in his head, and as he talked it out, something stood beside
him and marvelled at its perfection. As its inherent dishonesty revealed itself, the old man's
face flinched, but Barclay went on unfolding his scheme. It required General Hendricks to break
the law half a dozen ways, and to hazard all of the bank's assets, and all of its cash. And
it required him to agree not to lend a dollar to any man in the county except as he complied
with the demands of the Golden Belt Wheat Company and mortgaged his farm to Barclay. The plan
that Barclay set forth literally capitalized the famine that had followed the grasshopper invasion,
and sold the people their own need at Barclay's price. Then for an hour the two men fought
it out, and at the end Barclay was saying: "I am glad you see it that way, and I believe, as
you do, that they will take it a little better if we also agree to pay this year's taxes on
the land they put under the mortgage. It would be a great sweetener to some of them, and I
can slip in an option to sell the land to us outright as a kind of a joker in small type."
His brassy eyes were small and beady as his brain worked out the details of his plan. He put
his hands affectionately on General Hendricks' shoulders as he added, "You mustn't forget to
write to Bob, General; hold him there whatever comes."

At the foot of the stairs the two men could hear the heavy tread of Colonel Culpepper. As Hendricks
went down the stairs John heard the colonel's "Mornin', General," as the two men passed in
the hallway.

"Mornin', Johnnie--how does your corporocity sagashiate this mornin'?" asked the colonel.

Barclay looked at the colonel through little beady green eyes and replied,--he knew not what.
He merely dipped an oar into the talk occasionally, he did not steer it, and not until he emerged
from his calculations twenty minutes after the colonel's greeting did Barclay realize that
the colonel was in great pain. He was saying when Barclay's mind took heed: "And now, sir,
I say, now, having forced his unwelcome and, I may say, filthy lucre upon me, the impudent
scalawag writes me to-day to say that I must liquidate, must--liquidate, sir; in short, pay
up. I call that impertinence. But no matter what I call it, he's going to foreclose." Barclay's
eyes opened to attention. The colonel went on. "The original indebtedness was a matter of ten
thousand--you will remember, John, that's what I paid for my share of the College Heights property,
and while I have disposed of some,--in point of fact sold it at considerable profit,--yet,
as you know, and as this scoundrel knows, for I have written him pointedly to that effect,
I have been temporarily unable to remit any sum substantial enough to justify bothering him
with it. But now the scamp, the grasping insulting brigand, notifies me that unless I pay him
when the mortgage is due,--to be plain, sir, next week,--he proposes to foreclose on me."

The colonel's brows were knit with trouble. His voice faltered as he added: "And, John--John
Barclay, my good friend--do you realize that that little piece of property out on the hill
is all I have on earth now, except the roof over my head? And may--" here his voice slid into
a tenor with pent-up emotion--"maybe the contemptible rapscallion will try to get that." The
colonel had risen and was pacing the floor. "What a damn disreputable business your commerce
is, anyway! John, I can't afford to lose that property--or I'd be a pauper, sir, a pauper peddling
organs and sewing-machines and maybe teaching singing-school." The colonel's face caught a
rift of sunshine as he added, "You know I did that once before I was married and came West--taught
singing-school."

"Well, Colonel--let's see about it," said Barclay, absently. And the two men sat at the table
and figured up that the colonel's liabilities were in the neighbourhood of twelve thousand,
of which ten thousand were pressing and the rest more or less imminent. At the end of their
conference, Barclay's mind was still full of his own affairs. But he said, after looking a
moment at the troubled face of the big black-eyed man whose bulk towered above him, "Well,
Colonel, I don't know what under heavens I can do--but I'll do what I can."

The colonel did not feel Barclay's abstraction. But the colonel's face cleared like a child's,
and he reached for the little man and hugged him off his feet. Then the colonel broke out,
"May the Lord, who heedeth the sparrow's fall and protects all us poor blundering children,
bless you, John Barclay--bless you and all your household." There were tears in his eyes as
he waved a grand adieu at the door, and he whistled "Gayly the Troubadour" as he tripped lightly
down the stairs. And in another moment the large white plumes were dancing in his eyes again.
This time they waved and beckoned toward a subscription paper which the colonel had just drawn
up when the annoying letter came from Chicago, reminding him of his debt. The paper was for
the relief of a farmer whose house and stock had been burned. The colonel brought from his
hip pocket the carefully folded sheet of foolscap which he had put away when duty called him
to Barclay. He paused at the bottom of the stair, backed the paper on the wall, and wrote under
the words setting forth the farmer's destitution, "Martin Culpepper--twenty-five dollars."
He stood a moment in the stairway looking into the street; the day was fair and beautiful;
the grasshoppers were gone, and with them went all the vegetation in the landscape; but the
colonel in his nankeen trousers and his plaited white shirt and white suspenders, under his
white Panama hat, felt only the influence of the genial air. So he drew out the subscription
paper again and erased the twenty-five dollars and put down thirty-five dollars. Then as Oscar
Fernald and Daniel Frye came by with long faces the colonel hailed them.

"Boys," he said, "fellow named Haskins down in Fairview, with nine children and a sick wife,
got burnt out last night, and I'm kind of seeing if we can't get him some lumber and groceries
and things. I want you boys," the colonel saw the clouds gathering and smiled to brush them
away, "yes, I want you boys to give me ten dollars apiece."

"Ten dollars!" cried Fernald.

"Ten dollars!" echoed Frye. "My Lord, man, there isn't ten dollars in cash between here and
the Missouri River!"

"But the man and his children will starve, and his wife will die of neglect."

"That's the Lord's affair--and yours, Mart," returned Fernald, as he broke away from the colonel's
grasp; "you and He brought them here." Frye went with Oscar, and they left the colonel with
his subscription paper in his hand. He looked up and down the street and then drew a long breath,
and put the paper against the wall again and sighed as he erased the thirty-five dollars and
put down fifty dollars after his name. Then he started for the bank to see General Hendricks.
The large white plumes were still dancing in his eyes.

But so far as Barclay is concerned the colonel never reached the bottom of the stairs, for
Barclay had his desk covered with law-books and was looking up contracts. In an hour he had
a draft of a mortgage and option to buy the mortgaged land written out, and was copying it
for the printer. He took it to the Banner office and asked Brownwell to put two men on the
job, and to have the proof ready by the next morning.

Brownwell waved both hands magnificently and with much grace, and said: "Mr. Barclay, we will
put three men on the work, sir, and if you will do me the honour, I will be pleased to bring
the proof up Lincoln Avenue to the home of our mutual friend, Colonel Culpepper, where you
may see it to-night." Barclay fancied that a complacent smile wreathed Brownwell's face at
the prospect of going to the Culpeppers', and the next instant the man was saying: "Charming
young lady, Miss Molly! Ah, the ladies, the ladies--they will make fools of us. We can't resist
them." He shrugged and smirked and wiggled his fingers and played with his mustaches. "Wine
and women and song, you know--they get us all. But as for me--no wine, no song--but--" he finished
the sentence with another flourish.

