PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS,

FROM EARLY LIFE TO OLD AGE,

OF

MARY SOMERVILLE.

WITH

Selections from her Correspondence.

BY HER DAUGHTER, MARTHA SOMERVILLE.

FIFTH THOUSAND.

LONDON: JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, 1874.

[The Right of Translation is reserved.]

WORKS BY MRS. SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

THE MECHANISM OF THE HEAVENS. 8vo. 1831.

THE CONNECTION OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES. 9th Edition. Post 8vo. 9s. 1858.

PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 6th Edition. Post 8vo. 9s. 1870.

MOLECULAR AND MICROSCOPIC SCIENCE. 2 vols. Post 8vo. 21s. 1869.

CONTENTS.

    CHAPTER I.                                                         PAGE

    INTRODUCTION--PARENTAGE--LIFE IN SCOTLAND IN THE LAST
    CENTURY--EARLY EDUCATION--SCHOOL                                      1

    CHAPTER II.

    FREEDOM--RELIGIOUS EDUCATION--JEDBURGH                               24

    CHAPTER III.

    EDINBURGH--YOUTHFUL STUDIES AND AMUSEMENTS--POLITICS--THE
    THEATRES OF THE TIME                                                 41

    CHAPTER IV.

    EDINBURGH SUPPER PARTIES--TOUR IN THE HIGHLANDS--MUTINY
    IN THE FLEET--BATTLE OF CAMPERDOWN                                   61

    CHAPTER V.

    FIRST MARRIAGE (1804)--WIDOWHOOD--STUDIES--SECOND MARRIAGE           73

    CHAPTER VI.

    SOMERVILLE FAMILY--DR. SOMERVILLE'S CHARACTER--LETTERS--JOURNEY
    TO THE LAKES--DEATH OF SIR WILLIAM FAIRFAX--REMINISCENCES
    OF SIR WALTER SCOTT                                                  83

    CHAPTER VII.

    LIFE IN HANOVER SQUARE--VISIT TO FRANCE--ARAGO--CUVIER--ROME        104

    CHAPTER VIII.

    EDUCATION OF DAUGHTERS--DR. WOLLASTON--DR. YOUNG--THE
    HERSCHELS                                                           127

    CHAPTER IX.

    SOCIETY IN LONDON--CORONATION OF GEORGE IV.--LETTER TO
    DR. SOMERVILLE                                                      140

    CHAPTER X.

    DEATH OF MARGARET SOMERVILLE--LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE
    TO THE REV. DR. SOMERVILLE--LIFE AT CHELSEA--THE
    NAPIERS--MARIA EDGEWORTH--TOUR IN GERMANY                           152

    CHAPTER XI.

    LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM--WRITES "MECHANISM OF THE
    HEAVENS"--ANECDOTE OF THE ROMAN IMPROVISATRICE--LETTERS
    FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL AND PROFESSOR WHEWELL--ELECTED
    HON. MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL
    SOCIETY--NOTICE IN THE ACADÉMIE DES SCIENCES, AND
    LETTER FROM M. BIOT--PENSION--LETTER FROM SIR ROBERT
    PEEL--BEGINS TO WRITE ON THE CONNECTION OF THE
    PHYSICAL SCIENCES--VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE--LETTERS FROM
    PROFESSOR SEDGWICK AND LAPLACE                                      161

    CHAPTER XII.

    PARIS--ARAGO, LAFAYETTE, MM. BOUVARD, POISSON, LACROIX,
    &C., MARQUISE DE LAPLACE, DUPIN, F. COOPER--LEGITIMISTE
    SOCIETY--MAJENDIE--VISIT BARON LOUIS--LETTER FROM
    LAFAYETTE                                                           183

    CHAPTER XIII.

    RETURN TO ENGLAND--LETTER FROM HALLAM--TREATISE ON THE
    FORM AND ROTATION OF THE EARTH AND PLANETS--SECOND
    EDITION OF "THE CONNEXION OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES"--LETTERS
    FROM MARIA EDGEWORTH, MISS BERRY, LORD
    BROUGHAM, MRS. MARCET, ADMIRAL SMYTH--DOUBLE STARS--ECLIPSE
    OF DOUBLE STARS--LETTER FROM ADMIRAL SMYTH--SIR
    WILLIAM HERSCHEL--NEBULÆ--LETTER FROM LORD
    ROSSE--LETTER FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL--SIR JAMES
    SOUTH'S OBSERVATORY--MR. JOHN MURRAY--MISS BERRY--LORD
    DUDLEY--MR. BOWDITCH AND OTHER DISTINGUISHED
    AMERICANS--MRS. BROWNING WASHINGTON--LETTER FROM
    THE REV. DR. TUCKERMAN--SIR WILLIAM FAIRFAX ATTACKED
    BY HIGHWAYMEN                                                       198

    CHAPTER XIV.

    ROME, NAPLES, AND COMO--BADEN--WINTER AT FLORENCE--SIENA--LETTER
    FROM LORD BROUGHAM--MR MOUNTSTEWART
    ELPHINSTONE--LIFE AT ROME--CAMPAGNA CATTLE                          230

    CHAPTER XV.

    ALBANO--POPULAR SINGING--LETTERS FROM MRS.
    SOMERVILLE--GIBSON--PERUGIA--COMET
    OF 1843--SUMMER AT VENICE--LETTERS
    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE AND MISS JOANNA BAILLIE--ELECTED
    ASSOCIATE OF THE COLLEGE OF RESURGENTI AND
    R.I. ACADEMY OF SCIENCE AT AREZZO                                   243

    CHAPTER XVI.

    PUBLISHES "PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY"--LETTER FROM HUMBOLDT--CHRISTMAS
    AT COLLINGWOOD--LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE--FARADAY--LETTER
    FROM FARADAY--KEITH JOHNSTON'S
    MAPS--WINTER AT MUNICH--SALZBURG--LAKE OF GARDA--MINISCALCHI--POEM
    BY CATERINA BRENZONI--LETTER FROM
    BRENZONI--LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE--ÉLOGE BY
    MINISCALCHI--WINTER AT TURIN--BARON PLANA--CAMILLO
    CAVOUR--COLLINE NEAR TURIN--GENOA--TERESA DOVIA--FLORENCE--MISS
    F.P. COBBE--VIVISECTION--EXCURSIONS IN
    THE NEIGHBOURHOOD--CHOLERA--MISERICORDIA--PIO NONO
    IN TUSCANY--COMET--TUSCAN REVOLUTION--WAR IN LOMBARDY--ENTRY
    OF VICTOR EMMANUEL INTO FLORENCE--LETTERS
    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE--MY FATHER'S DEATH--LETTER
    FROM MISS COBBE                                                     286

    CHAPTER XVII.

    SPEZIA--GENOA--BEGINS MOLECULAR AND MICROSCOPIC
    SCIENCE--TURIN--SPEZIA--BRITISH FLEET--LETTERS FROM
    MRS. SOMERVILLE--GARIBALDI--SEVERE ILLNESS--FLORENCE--MY
    BROTHER'S DEATH--NAPLES--ERUPTION OF VESUVIUS--J.S.
    MILL--CHANGE IN PUBLIC OPINION ON WOMEN'S EDUCATION--EIGHTY-NINTH
    YEAR--DESCRIBES HER OWN CHARACTER--THOUGHTS
    ON A FUTURE LIFE--PROGRESS IN KNOWLEDGE OF
    GEOGRAPHY--VICTORIA MEDAL--MEDAL FROM ROYAL ITALIAN
    GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY--LETTER FROM MENABREA--ROME,
    CAPITAL OF ITALY--AURORA BOREALIS                                   329

    CHAPTER XVIII.

    ECLIPSE--VISITS OF SCIENTIFIC MEN--LIFE AT NAPLES--DARWIN'S
    BOOKS--REMARKS ON CIVILIZATION--FINE AURORA BOREALIS--DEATH
    OF HERSCHEL--SUMMER AT SORRENTO--BILL FOR
    PROTECTION OF ANIMALS--NINETY-SECOND YEAR--LETTER
    FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWICK--GRAND ERUPTION OF VESUVIUS--LAST
    SUMMER AT SORRENTO, PLANTS FOUND THERE--CONCLUSION
                                                                        354

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS

OF

MARY SOMERVILLE.

The life of a woman entirely devoted to her family duties and to scientific pursuits affords
little scope for a biography. There are in it neither stirring events nor brilliant deeds to
record; and as my Mother was strongly averse to gossip, and to revelations of private life
or of intimate correspondence, nothing of the kind will be found in the following pages. It
has been only after very great hesitation, and on the recommendation of valued friends, who
think that some account of so remarkable and beautiful a character cannot fail to interest
the public, that I have resolved to publish some detached Recollections of past times, noted
down by my mother during the last years of her life, together with a few letters from eminent
men and women, referring almost exclusively to her scientific works. A still smaller number
of her own letters have been added, either as illustrating her opinions on events she witnessed,
or else as affording some slight idea of her simple and loving disposition.

Few thoughtful minds will read without emotion my mother's own account of the wonderful energy
and indomitable perseverance by which, in her ardent thirst for knowledge, she overcame obstacles
apparently insurmountable, at a time when women were well-nigh totally debarred from education;
and the almost intuitive way in which she entered upon studies of which she had scarcely heard
the names, living, as she did, among persons to whom they were utterly unknown, and who disapproved
of her devotion to pursuits so different from those of ordinary young girls at the end of the
last century, especially in Scotland, which was far more old-fashioned and primitive than England.

Nor is her simple account of her early days without interest, when, as a lonely child, she
wandered by the seashore, and on the links of Burntisland, collecting shells and flowers; or
spent the clear, cold nights at her window, watching the starlit heavens, whose mysteries she
was destined one day to penetrate in all their profound and sublime laws, making clear to others
that knowledge which she herself had acquired, at the cost of so hard a struggle.

It was not only in her childhood and youth that my mother's studies encountered disapproval.
Not till she became a widow, had she perfect freedom to pursue them. The first person--indeed
the only one in her early days--who encouraged her passion for learning was her uncle by marriage,
afterwards her father-in-law, the Rev. Dr. Somerville, minister of Jedburgh, a man very much
in advance of his century in liberality of thought on all subjects. He was one of the first
to discern her rare qualities, and valued her as she deserved; while through life she retained
the most grateful affection for him, and confided to him many doubts and difficulties on subjects
of the highest importance. Nothing can be more erroneous than the statement, repeated in several
obituary notices of my mother, that Mr. Greig (her first husband) aided her in her mathematical
and other pursuits. Nearly the contrary was the case. Mr. Greig took no interest in science
or literature, and possessed in full the prejudice against learned women which was common at
that time. Only on her marriage with my father, my mother at last met with one who entirely
sympathised with her, and warmly entered into all her ideas, encouraging her zeal for study
to the utmost, and affording her every facility for it in his power. His love and admiration
for her were unbounded; he frankly and willingly acknowledged her superiority to himself, and
many of our friends can bear witness to the honest pride and gratification which he always
testified in the fame and honours she attained.

No one can escape sorrow, and my mother, in the course of her long life, had her full share,
but she bore it with that deep feeling of trust in the great goodness of God which formed so
marked a feature in her character. She had a buoyant and hopeful spirit, and though her affections
were very strong, and she felt keenly, it was ever her nature to turn from the shadows to all
that is bright and beautiful in mortal life. She had much to make life pleasant in the great
honours universally bestowed upon her; but she found far more in the devoted affection of friends,
to say nothing of those whose happy lot it has been to live in close and loving intercourse
with so noble and gentle a spirit.

She met with unbounded kindness from men of science of all countries, and most profound was
her gratitude to them. Modest and unpretending to excess, nothing could be more generous than
the unfeigned delight she shewed in recognising the genius and discoveries of others; ever
jealous of their fame, and never of her own.

It is not uncommon to see persons who hold in youth opinions in advance of the age in which
they live, but who at a certain period seem to crystallise, and lose the faculty of comprehending
and accepting new ideas and theories; thus remaining at last as far behind, as they were once
in advance of public opinion. Not so my mother, who was ever ready to hail joyfully any new
idea or theory, and to give it honest attention, even if it were at variance with her former
convictions. This quality she never lost, and it enabled her to sympathise with the younger
generation of philosophers, as she had done with their predecessors, her own contemporaries.

Although her favourite pursuit, and the one for which she had decidedly most aptitude, was
mathematics; yet there were few subjects in which she did not take interest, whether in science
or literature, philosophy or politics. She was passionately fond of poetry, her especial favourites
being Shakespeare and Dante, and also the great Greek dramatists, whose tragedies she read
fluently in the original, being a good classical scholar. She was very fond of music, and devoted
much time to it in her youth, and she painted from nature with considerable taste. The latter
was, perhaps, the recreation in which she most delighted, from the opportunity it afforded
her of contemplating the wonderful beauty of the world, which was a never-failing source of
intense enjoyment to her, whether she watched the changing effects of light and shade on her
favourite Roman Campagna, or gazed, enchanted, on the gorgeous sunsets on the bay of Naples,
as she witnessed them from her much-loved Sorrento, where she passed the last summers of her
life. All things fair were a joy to her--the flowers we brought her from our rambles, the sea-weeds,
the wild birds she saw, all interested and pleased her. Everything in nature spoke to her of
that great God who created all things, the grand and sublimely beautiful as well as the exquisite
loveliness of minute objects. Above all, in the laws which science unveils step by step, she
found ever renewed motives for the love and adoration of their Author and Sustainer. This fervour
of religious feeling accompanied her through life, and very early she shook off all that was
dark and narrow in the creed of her first instructors for a purer and a happier faith.

It would be almost incredible were I to describe how much my mother contrived to do in the
course of the day. When my sister and I were small children, although busily engaged in writing
for the press, she used to teach us for three hours every morning, besides managing her house
carefully, reading the newspapers (for she always was a keen, and, I must add, a liberal politician),
and the most important new books on all subjects, grave and gay. In addition to all this, she
freely visited and received her friends. She was, indeed, very fond of society, and did not
look for transcendent talent in those with whom she associated, although no one appreciated
it more when she found it. Gay and cheerful company was a pleasant relaxation after a hard
day's work. My mother never introduced scientific or learned subjects into general conversation.
When they were brought forward by others, she talked simply and naturally about them, without
the slightest pretension to superior knowledge. Finally, to complete the list of her accomplishments,
I must add that she was a remarkably neat and skilful needlewoman. We still possess some elaborate
specimens of her embroidery and lace-work.

Devoted and loving in all the relations of life, my mother was ever forgetful of self. Indulgent
and sympathising, she never judged others with harshness or severity; yet she could be very
angry when her indignation was aroused by hearing of injustice or oppression, of cruelty to
man or beast, or of any attack on those she loved. Rather timid and retiring in general society,
she was otherwise fearless in her quiet way. I well remember her cool composure on some occasions
when we were in great danger. This she inherited from her father, Admiral Sir William Fairfax,
a gallant gentleman who distinguished himself greatly at the battle of Camperdown.[1]

My mother speaks of him as follows among her "Recollections," of which I now proceed to place
some portions before the reader.

       *     *     *     *     *

My father was very good looking, of a brave and noble nature, and a perfect gentleman both
in appearance and character. He was sent to sea as midshipman at ten years of age, so he had
very little education; but he read a great deal, chiefly history and voyages. He was very cool,
and of instant resource in moments of danger.

One night, when his little vessel had taken refuge with many others from an intensely violent
gale and drifting snow in Yarmouth Roads, they saw lights disappear, as vessel after vessel
foundered. My father, after having done all that was possible for the safety of the ship, went
to bed. His cabin door did not shut closely, from the rolling of the ship, and the man who
was sentry that night told my mother years afterwards, that when he saw my father on his knees
praying, he thought it would soon be all over with them; then seeing him go to bed and fall
asleep, he felt no more fear. In the morning the coast was strewed with wrecks. There were
no life-boats in those days; now the lives of hundreds are annually saved by the noble self-devotion
of British sailors.

My mother was the daughter of Samuel Charters, Solicitor of the Customs for Scotland, and his
wife Christian Murray, of Kynynmont, whose eldest sister married the great grandfather of the
present Earl of Minto. My grandmother was exceedingly proud and stately. She made her children
stand in her presence. My mother, on the contrary, was indulgent and kind, so that her children
were perfectly at ease with her. She seldom read anything but the Bible, sermons, and the newspaper.
She was very sincere and devout in her religion, and was remarkable for good sense and great
strength of expression in writing and conversation. Though by no means pretty, she was exceedingly
distinguished and ladylike both in appearance and manners.

My father was constantly employed, and twice distinguished himself by attacking vessels of
superior force. He captured the first, but was overpowered by the second, and being taken to
France, remained two years a prisoner on parole, when he met with much kindness from the Choiseul
family. At last he was exchanged, and afterwards was appointed lieutenant on board a frigate
destined for foreign service. I think it was the North American station, for the war of Independence
was not over till the beginning of 1783. As my mother knew that my father would be absent for
some years, she accompanied him to London, though so near her confinement that in returning
home she had just time to arrive at the manse of Jedburgh, her sister Martha Somerville's[2]
house, when I was born, on the 26th December, 1780. My mother was dangerously ill, and my aunt,
who was about to wean her second daughter Janet, who married General Henry Elliot, nursed me
till a wetnurse could be found. So I was born in the house of my future husband, and nursed
by his mother--a rather singular coincidence.

During my father's absence, my mother lived with great economy in a house not far from Burntisland
which belonged to my grandfather, solely occupied with the care of her family, which consisted
of her eldest son Samuel, four or five years old, and myself. One evening while my brother
was lying at play on the floor, he called out, "O, mamma there's the moon rinnin' awa." It
was the celebrated meteor of 1783.

Some time afterwards, for what reason I do not know, my father and mother went to live for
a short time at Inveresk, and thence returned to Burntisland, our permanent home.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [This place, in which my mother's early life was spent, exercised so
    much influence on her life and pursuits, that I am happy to be
    able to give the description of it in her own words.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Burntisland was then a small quiet seaport town with little or no commerce, situated on the
coast of Fife, immediately opposite to Edinburgh. It is sheltered at some distance on the north
by a high and steep hill called the Bin. The harbour lies on the west, and the town ended on
the east in a plain of short grass called the Links, on which the townspeople had the right
of pasturing their cows and geese. The Links were bounded on each side by low hills covered
with gorse and heather, and on the east by a beautiful bay with a sandy beach, which, beginning
at a low rocky point, formed a bow and then stretched for several miles to the town of Kinghorn,
the distant part skirting a range of high precipitous crags.

Our house, which lay to the south of the town, was very long, with a southern exposure, and
its length was increased by a wall covered with fruit-trees, which concealed a courtyard, cow-house,
and other offices. From this the garden extended southwards, and ended in a plot of short grass
covering a ledge of low black rocks washed by the sea. It was divided into three parts by narrow,
almost unfrequented, lanes. These gardens yielded abundance of common fruit and vegetables,
but the warmest and best exposures were always devoted to flowers. The garden next to the house
was bounded on the south by an ivy-covered wall hid by a row of old elm trees, from whence
a steep mossy bank descended to a flat plot of grass with a gravel walk and flower borders
on each side, and a broad gravel walk ran along the front of the house. My mother was fond
of flowers, and prided herself on her moss-roses, which flourished luxuriantly on the front
of the house; but my father, though a sailor, was an excellent florist. He procured the finest
bulbs and flower seeds from Holland, and kept each kind in a separate bed.

The manners and customs of the people who inhabited this pretty spot at that time were exceedingly
primitive.

Upon the death of any of the townspeople, a man went about ringing a bell at the doors of the
friends and acquaintances of the person just dead, and, after calling out "Oyez!" three times,
he announced the death which had occurred. This was still called by the name of the Passing-bell,
which in Catholic times invited the prayers of the living for the spirit just passed away.

There was much sympathy and kindness shown on these occasions; friends always paid a visit
of condolence to the afflicted, dressed in black. The gude wives in Burntisland thought it
respectable to provide dead-clothes for themselves and the "gude man," that they might have
a decent funeral. I once saw a set of grave-clothes nicely folded up, which consisted of a
long shirt and cap of white flannel, and a shroud of fine linen made of yarn, spun by the gude
wife herself. I did not like that gude wife; she was purse-proud, and took every opportunity
of treating with scorn a poor neighbour who had had a misfortune, that is, a child by her husband
before marriage, but who made a very good wife. Her husband worked in our garden, and took
our cow to the Links to graze. The wife kept a little shop, where we bought things, and she
told us her neighbour had given her "mony a sair greet"--that is, a bitter fit of weeping.

The howdie, or midwife, was a person of much consequence. She had often to go far into the
country, by day and by night, riding a cart-horse. The neighbours used to go and congratulate
the mother, and, of course, to admire the baby. Cake and caudle were handed round, caudle being
oatmeal gruel, with sugar, nutmeg, and white wine. In the poorest class, hot ale and "scons"
were offered.

Penny-weddings were by no means uncommon in my young days. When a very poor couple were going
to be married, the best man, and even the bridegroom himself, went from house to house, asking
for small sums to enable them to have a wedding supper, and pay the town fiddler for a dance;
any one was admitted who paid a penny. I recollect the prisoners in the Tolbooth letting down
bags from the prison windows, begging for charity. I do not remember any execution taking place.

Men and old women of the lower classes smoked tobacco in short pipes, and many took snuff--even
young ladies must have done so; for I have a very pretty and quaint gold snuff-box which was
given to my grandmother as a marriage present. Licensed beggars, called "gaberlunzie men,"
were still common. They wore a blue coat, with a tin badge, and wandered about the country,
knew all that was going on, and were always welcome at the farm-houses, where the gude wife
liked to have a crack (gossip) with the blue coat, and, in return for his news, gave him dinner
or supper, as might be. Edie Ochiltree is a perfect specimen of this extinct race. There was
another species of beggar, of yet higher antiquity. If a man were a cripple, and poor, his
relations put him in a hand-barrow, and wheeled him to their next neighbour's door, and left
him there. Some one came out, gave him oat-cake or peasemeal bannock, and then wheeled him
to the next door; and in this way, going from house to house, he obtained a fair livelihood.

My brother Sam lived with our grandfather in Edinburgh, and attended the High School, which
was in the old town, and, like other boys, he was given pennies to buy bread; but the boys
preferred oysters, which they bought from the fishwives, the bargain being, a dozen oysters
for a halfpenny, and a kiss for the thirteenth. These fishwives and their husbands were industrious,
hard-working people, forming a community of their own in the village of Newhaven, close to
the sea, and about two miles from Edinburgh. The men were exposed to cold, and often to danger,
in their small boats, not always well-built nor fitted for our stormy Firth. The women helped
to land and prepare the fish when the boats came in, carried it to town for sale in the early
morning, kept the purse, managed the house, brought up the children, and provided food and
clothing for all. Many were rich, lived well, and sometimes had dances. Many of the young women
were pretty, and all wore--and, I am told, still wear--a bright-coloured, picturesque costume.
Some young men, amongst others a cousin of my own, who attempted to intrude into one of these
balls, got pelted with fish offal by the women. The village smelt strongly of fish, certainly;
yet the people were very clean personally. I recollect their keeping tame gulls, which they
fed with fish offal.

Although there was no individual enmity between the boys of the old and of the new or aristocratic
part of Edinburgh, there were frequent battles, called "bickers," between them, in which they
pelted each other with stones. Sometimes they were joined by bigger lads, and then the fight
became so serious that the magistrates sent the city guard--a set of old men with halberds
and a quaint uniform--to separate them; but no sooner did the guard appear, than both parties
joined against them.

Strings of wild geese were common in autumn, and I was amused on one occasion to see the clumsy
tame fat geese which were feeding on the Links rise in a body and try to follow the wild ones.

As the grass on the plot before our house did not form a fine even turf, the ground was trenched
and sown with good seed, but along with the grass a vast crop of thistles and groundsel appeared,
which attracted quantities of goldfinches, and in the early mornings I have seen as many as
sixty to eighty of these beautiful birds feeding on it.

My love of birds has continued through life, for only two years ago, in my extreme old age,
I lost a pet mountain sparrow, which for eight years was my constant companion: sitting on
my shoulder, pecking at my papers, and eating out of my mouth; and I am not ashamed to say
I felt its accidental death very much.

Before the grass came up on this plot of ground, its surface in the evening swarmed with earthworms,
which instantly shrank into their holes on the approach of a foot. My aunt Janet, who was then
with us, and afraid even to speak of death, was horrified on seeing them, firmly believing
that she would one day be eaten by them--a very general opinion at that time; few people being
then aware that the finest mould in our gardens and fields has passed through the entrails
of the earthworm, the vegetable juices it contains being sufficient to maintain these harmless
creatures.

My mother was very much afraid of thunder and lightning. She knew when a storm was near from
the appearance of the clouds, and prepared for it by taking out the steel pins which fastened
her cap on. She then sat on a sofa at a distance from the fire-place, which had a very high
chimney, and read different parts of the Bible, especially the sublime descriptions of storms
in the Psalms, which made me, who sat close by her, still more afraid. We had an excellent
and beautiful pointer, called Hero, a great favourite, who generally lived in the garden, but
at the first clap of thunder he used to rush howling indoors, and place his face on my knee.
Then my father, who laughed not a little at our fear, would bring a glass of wine to my mother,
and say, "Drink that, Peg; it will give you courage, for we are going to have a rat-tat-too."
My mother would beg him to shut the window-shutters, and though she could no longer see to
read, she kept the Bible on her knee for protection.

My mother taught me to read the Bible, and to say my prayers morning and evening; otherwise
she allowed me to grow up a wild creature. When I was seven or eight years old I began to be
useful, for I pulled the fruit for preserving; shelled the peas and beans, fed the poultry,
and looked after the dairy, for we kept a cow.

On one occasion I had put green gooseberries into bottles and sent them to the kitchen with
orders to the cook to boil the bottles uncorked, and, when the fruit was sufficiently cooked,
to cork and tie up the bottles. After a time all the house was alarmed by loud explosions and
violent screaming in the kitchen, the cook had corked the bottles before she boiled them, and
of course they exploded. For greater preservation, the bottles were always buried in the ground;
a number were once found in our garden with the fruit in high preservation which had been buried
no one knew when. Thus experience is sometimes the antecedent of science, for it was little
suspected at that time that by shutting out the air the invisible organic world was excluded--the
cause of all fermentation and decay.

I never cared for dolls, and had no one to play with me. I amused myself in the garden, which
was much frequented by birds. I knew most of them, their flight and their habits. The swallows
were never prevented from building above our windows, and, when about to migrate, they used
to assemble in hundreds on the roof of our house, and prepared for their journey by short flights.
We fed the birds when the ground was covered with snow, and opened our windows at breakfast-time
to let in the robins, who would hop on the table to pick up crumbs. The quantity of singing
birds was very great, for the farmers and gardeners were less cruel and avaricious than they
are now--though poorer. They allowed our pretty songsters to share in the bounties of providence.
The shortsighted cruelty, which is too prevalent now, brings its own punishment, for, owing
to the reckless destruction of birds, the equilibrium of nature is disturbed, insects increase
to such an extent as materially to affect every description of crop. This summer (1872), when
I was at Sorrento, even the olives, grapes, and oranges were seriously injured by the caterpillars--a
disaster which I entirely attribute to the ruthless havoc made among every kind of bird.

       *     *     *     *     *

My mother set me in due time to learn the catechism of the Kirk of Scotland, and to attend
the public examinations in the kirk. This was a severe trial for me; for, besides being timid
and shy, I had a bad memory, and did not understand one word of the catechism. These meetings,
which began with prayer, were attended by all the children of the town and neighbourhood, with
their mothers, and a great many old women, who came to be edified. They were an acute race,
and could quote chapter and verse of Scripture as accurately as the minister himself. I remember
he said to one of them--"Peggie, what lightened the world before the sun was made?" After thinking
for a minute, she said--"'Deed, sir, the question is mair curious than edifying."

Besides these public examinations, the minister made an annual visit to each household in his
parish. When he came to us, the servants were called in, and we all knelt while he said a prayer;
and then he examined each individual as to the state of his soul and conduct. He asked me if
I could say my "Questions"--that is, the catechism of the Kirk of Scotland--and asked a question
at random to ascertain the fact. He did the same to the servants.

When I was between eight and nine years old, my father came home from sea, and was shocked
to find me such a savage. I had not yet been taught to write, and although I amused myself
reading the "Arabian Nights," "Robinson Crusoe," and the "Pilgrim's Progress," I read very
badly, and with a strong Scotch accent; so, besides a chapter of the Bible, he made me read
a paper of the "Spectator" aloud every morning, after breakfast; the consequence of which discipline
is that I have never since opened that book. Hume's "History of England" was also a real penance
to me. I gladly accompanied my father when he cultivated his flowers, which even now I can
say were of the best quality. The tulips and other bulbous plants, ranunculi, anemones, carnations,
as well as the annuals then known, were all beautiful. He used to root up and throw away many
plants I thought very beautiful; he said he did so because the colours of their petals were
not sharply defined, and that they would spoil the seed of the others. Thus I learnt to know
the good and the bad--how to lay carnations, and how to distinguish between the leaf and fruit
buds in pruning fruit trees; this kind of knowledge was of no practical use, for, as my after-life
was spent in towns, I never had a garden, to my great regret.

George the Third was so popular, that even in Burntisland nosegays were placed in every window
on the 4th of June, his birthday; and it occasionally happened that our garden was robbed the
preceding night of its gayest flowers.

My father at last said to my mother,--"This kind of life will never do, Mary must at least
know how to write and keep accounts." So at ten years old I was sent to a boarding-school,
kept by a Miss Primrose, at Musselburgh, where I was utterly wretched. The change from perfect
liberty to perpetual restraint was in itself a great trial; besides, being naturally shy and
timid, I was afraid of strangers, and although Miss Primrose was not unkind she had an habitual
frown, which even the elder girls dreaded. My future companions, who were all older than I,
came round me like a swarm of bees, and asked if my father had a title, what was the name of
our estate, if we kept a carriage, and other such questions, which made me first feel the difference
of station. However, the girls were very kind, and often bathed my eyes to prevent our stern
mistress from seeing that I was perpetually in tears. The chief thing I had to do was to learn
by heart a page of Johnson's dictionary, not only to spell the words, give their parts of speech
and meaning, but as an exercise of memory to remember their order of succession. Besides I
had to learn the first principles of writing, and the rudiments of French and English grammar.
The method of teaching was extremely tedious and inefficient. Our religious duties were attended
to in a remarkable way. Some of the girls were Presbyterians, others belonged to the Church
of England, so Miss Primrose cut the matter short by taking us all to the kirk in the morning
and to church in the afternoon.

In our play-hours we amused ourselves with playing at ball, marbles, and especially at "Scotch
and English," a game which represented a raid on the debatable land, or Border between Scotland
and England, in which each party tried to rob the other of their playthings. The little ones
were always compelled to be English, for the bigger girls thought it too degrading.

Lady Hope, a relative of my mother, frequently invited me to spend Saturday at Pinkie. She
was a very ladylike person, in delicate health, and with cold manners. Sir Archibald was stout,
loud, passionate, and devoted to hunting. I amused myself in the grounds, a good deal afraid
of a turkey-cock, who was pugnacious and defiant.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Sir William Fairfax was the son of Joseph Fairfax, Esq., of Bagshot, in the county
of Surrey, who died in 1783, aged 77, having served in the army previous to 1745. It is understood
that his family was descended from the Fairfaxes of Walton, in Yorkshire, the main branch of
which were created Viscounts Fairfax of Emly, in the peerage of Ireland (now extinct), and
a younger branch Barons Fairfax of Cameron, in the peerage of Scotland. Of the last-named was
the great Lord Fairfax, Commander-in-Chief of the armies of the Parliament, 1645-50, whose
title is now held by the eleventh Lord Fairfax, a resident in the United States of America.]

[Footnote 2: Wife of the Rev. Dr. Thomas Somerville, minister of Jedburgh, already mentioned
(p. 2). Dr. Somerville was author of Histories of Queen Anne and of William and Mary, and also
of an autobiography.]

CHAPTER II.

FREEDOM--RELIGIOUS EDUCATION--JEDBURGH.

    [My mother remained at school at Musselburgh for a twelvemonth, till
    she was eleven years old. After this prolonged and elaborate
    education, she was recalled to Burntisland, and the results of the
    process she had undergone are detailed in her "Recollections" with
    much drollery.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Soon after my return home I received a note from a lady in the neighbourhood, inquiring for
my mother, who had been ill. This note greatly distressed me, for my half-text writing was
as bad as possible, and I could neither compose an answer nor spell the words. My eldest cousin,
Miss Somerville, a grown-up young lady, then with us, got me out of this scrape, but I soon
got myself into another, by writing to my brother in Edinburgh that I had sent him a bank-knot
(note) to buy something for me. The school at Musselburgh was expensive, and I was reproached
with having cost so much money in vain. My mother said she would have been contented if I had
only learnt to write well and keep accounts, which was all that a woman was expected to know.

This passed over, and I was like a wild animal escaped out of a cage. I was no longer amused
in the gardens, but wandered about the country. When the tide was out I spent hours on the
sands, looking at the star-fish and sea-urchins, or watching the children digging for sand-eels,
cockles, and the spouting razor-fish. I made a collection of shells, such as were cast ashore,
some so small that they appeared like white specks in patches of black sand. There was a small
pier on the sands for shipping limestone brought from the coal mines inland. I was astonished
to see the surface of these blocks of stone covered with beautiful impressions of what seemed
to be leaves; how they got there I could not imagine, but I picked up the broken bits, and
even large pieces, and brought them to my repository. I knew the eggs of many birds, and made
a collection of them. I never robbed a nest, but bought strings of eggs, which were sold by
boys, besides getting sea-fowl eggs from sailors who had been in whalers or on other northern
voyages. It was believed by these sailors that there was a gigantic flat fish in the North
Sea, called a kraken. It was so enormous that when it came to the surface, covered with tangles
and sand, it was supposed to be an island, till, on one occasion, part of a ship's crew landed
on it and found out their mistake. However, much as they believed in it, none of the sailors
at Burntisland had ever seen it. The sea serpent was also an article of our faith.

In the rocks at the end of our garden there was a shingly opening, in which we used to bathe,
and where at low tide I frequently waded among masses of rock covered with sea-weeds. With
the exception of dulse and tangle I knew the names of none, though I was well acquainted with
and admired many of these beautiful plants. I also watched the crabs, live shells, jelly-fish,
and various marine animals, all of which were objects of curiosity and amusement to me in my
lonely life.

The flora on the links and hills around was very beautiful, and I soon learnt the trivial names
of all the plants. There was not a tree nor bush higher than furze in this part of the country,
but the coast to the north-west of Burntisland was bordered by a tree and brushwood-covered
bank belonging to the Earl of Morton, which extended to Aberdour. I could not go so far alone,
but had frequent opportunities of walking there and gathering ferns, foxgloves, and primroses,
which grew on the mossy banks of a little stream that ran into the sea. The bed of this stream
or burn was thickly covered with the freshwater mussel, which I knew often contained pearls,
but I did not like to kill the creatures to get the pearls.

One day my father, who was a keen sportsman, having gone to fish for red trout at the mouth
of this stream, found a young whale, or grampus, stranded in the shallow water. He immediately
ran back to the town, got boats, captured the whale, and landed it in the harbour, where I
went with the rest of the crowd to see the muckle fish.

There was always a good deal of shipbuilding carried on in the harbour, generally coasting
vessels or colliers. We, of course, went to see them launched, which was a pretty sight.

       *     *     *     *     *

When the bad weather began I did not know what to do with myself. Fortunately we had a small
collection of books, among which I found Shakespeare, and read it at every moment I could spare
from my domestic duties. These occupied a great part of my time; besides, I had to shew (sew)
my sampler, working the alphabet from A to Z, as well as the ten numbers, on canvas.

My mother did not prevent me from reading, but my aunt Janet, who came to live in Burntisland
after her father's death, greatly disapproved of my conduct. She was an old maid who could
be very agreeable and witty, but she had all the prejudices of the time with regard to women's
duties, and said to my mother, "I wonder you let Mary waste her time in reading, she never
shews (sews) more than if she were a man." Whereupon I was sent to the village school to learn
plain needlework. I do not remember how long it was after this that an old lady sent some very
fine linen to be made into shirts for her brother, and desired that one should be made entirely
by me. This shirt was so well worked that I was relieved from attending the school, but the
house linen was given into my charge to make and to mend. We had a large stock, much of it
very beautiful, for the Scotch ladies at that time were very proud of their napery, but they
no longer sent it to Holland to be bleached, as had once been the custom. We grew flax, and
our maids spun it. The coarser yarn was woven in Burntisland, and bleached upon the links;
the finer was sent to Dunfermline, where there was a manufactory of table-linen.

I was annoyed that my turn for reading was so much disapproved of, and thought it unjust that
women should have been given a desire for knowledge if it were wrong to acquire it. Among our
books I found Chapone's "Letters to Young Women," and resolved to follow the course of history
there recommended, the more so as we had most of the works she mentions. One, however, which
my cousin lent me was in French, and here the little I had learnt at school was useful, for
with the help of a dictionary I made out the sense. What annoyed me was my memory not being
good--I could remember neither names nor dates. Years afterwards I studied a "Memoria Technica,"
then in fashion, without success; yet in my youth I could play long pieces of music on the
piano without the book, and I never forget mathematical formulæ. In looking over one of my
MSS., which I had not seen for forty years, I at once recognised the formulæ for computing
the secular inequalities of the moon.

We had two small globes, and my mother allowed me to learn the use of them from Mr. Reed, the
village schoolmaster, who came to teach me for a few weeks in the winter evenings. Besides
the ordinary branches, Mr. Reed taught Latin and navigation, but these were out of the question
for me. At the village school the boys often learnt Latin, but it was thought sufficient for
the girls to be able to read the Bible; very few even learnt writing. I recollect, however,
that some men were ignorant of book-keeping; our baker, for instance had a wooden tally, in
which he made a notch for every loaf of bread, and of course we had the corresponding tally.
They were called nick-sticks.

My bedroom had a window to the south, and a small closet near had one to the north. At these
I spent many hours, studying the stars by the aid of the celestial globe. Although I watched
and admired the magnificent displays of the Aurora, which frequently occurred, they seemed
to be so nearly allied to lightning that I was somewhat afraid of them. At an earlier period
of my life there was a comet, which I dreaded exceedingly.

       *     *     *     *     *

My father was Captain of the "Repulse," a fifty-gun ship, attached to the Northern fleet commanded
by the Earl of Northesk. The winter was extremely stormy, the fleet was driven far north, and
kept there by adverse gales, till both officers and crew were on short rations. They ran out
of candles, and had to tear up their stockings for wicks, and dip them into the fat of the
salt meat which was left. We were in great anxiety, for it was reported that some of the ships
had foundered; we were, however, relieved by the arrival of the "Repulse" in Leith roads for
repair.

Our house on one occasion being full, I was sent to sleep in a room quite detached from the
rest and with a different staircase. There was a closet in this room in which my father kept
his fowling pieces, fishing tackle, and golf clubs, and a long garret overhead was filled with
presses and stores of all kinds, among other things a number of large cheeses were on a board
slung by ropes to the rafters. One night I had put out my candle and was fast asleep, when
I was awakened by a violent crash, and then a rolling noise over my head. Now the room was
said to be haunted, so that the servants would not sleep in it. I was desperate, for there
was no bell. I groped my way to the closet--lucifer matches were unknown in those days--I seized
one of the golf clubs, which are shod with iron, and thundered on the bedroom door till I brought
my father, followed by the whole household, to my aid. It was found that the rats had gnawed
through the ropes by which the cheeses were suspended, so that the crash and rolling were accounted
for, and I was scolded for making such an uproar.

Children suffer much misery by being left alone in the dark. When I was very young I was sent
to bed at eight or nine o'clock, and the maid who slept in the room went away as soon as I
was in bed, leaving me alone in the dark till she came to bed herself. All that time I was
in an agony of fear of something indefinite, I could not tell what. The joy, the relief, when
the maid came back, were such that I instantly fell asleep. Now that I am a widow and old,
although I always have a night-lamp, such is the power of early impressions that I rejoice
when daylight comes.

       *     *     *     *     *

At Burntisland the sacrament was administered in summer because people came in crowds from
the neighbouring parishes to attend the preachings. The service was long and fatiguing. A number
of clergymen came to assist, and as the minister's manse could not accommodate them all, we
entertained three of them, one of whom was always the Rev. Dr. Campbell, father of Lord Campbell.

Thursday was a day of preparation. The morning service began by a psalm sung by the congregation,
then a prayer was said by the minister, followed by a lecture on some chapter of the Bible,
generally lasting an hour, after that another psalm was sung, followed by a prayer, a sermon
which lasted seldom less than an hour, and the whole ended with a psalm, a short prayer and
a benediction. Every one then went home to dinner and returned afterwards for afternoon service,
which lasted more than an hour and a half. Friday was a day of rest, but I together with many
young people went at this time to the minister to receive a stamped piece of lead as a token
that we were sufficiently instructed to be admitted to Christ's table. This ticket was given
to the Elder on the following Sunday. On Saturday there was a morning service, and on Sunday
such multitudes came to receive the sacrament that the devotions continued till late in the
evening. The ceremony was very strikingly and solemnly conducted. The communicants sat on each
side of long narrow tables covered with white linen, in imitation of the last supper of Christ,
and the Elders handed the bread and wine. After a short exhortation from one of the ministers
the first set retired, and were succeeded by others. When the weather was fine a sermon, prayers,
and psalm-singing took place either in the churchyard or on a grassy bank at the Links for
such as were waiting to communicate. On the Monday morning there was the same long service
as on the Thursday. It was too much for me; I always came home with a headache, and took a
dislike to sermons.

Our minister was a rigid Calvinist. His sermons were gloomy, and so long that he occasionally
would startle the congregation by calling out to some culprit, "Sit up there, how daur ye sleep
i' the kirk." Some saw-mills in the neighbourhood were burnt down, so the following Sunday
we had a sermon on hell-fire. The kirk was very large and quaint; a stair led to a gallery
on each side of the pulpit, which was intended for the tradespeople, and each division was
marked with a suitable device, and text from Scripture. On the bakers' portion a sheaf of wheat
was painted; a balance and weights on the grocers', and on the weavers', which was opposite
to our pew, there was a shuttle, and below it the motto, "My days are swifter than a weaver's
shuttle, and are spent without hop job." The artist was evidently no clerk.

My brother Sam, while attending the university in Edinburgh, came to us on the Saturdays and
returned to town on Monday. He of course went with us to the kirk on Sunday morning, but we
let our mother attend afternoon service alone, as he and I were happy to be together, and we
spent the time sitting on the grassy rocks at the foot of our garden, from whence we could
see a vast extent of the Firth of Forth with Edinburgh and its picturesque hills. It was very
amusing, for we occasionally saw three or four whales spouting, and shoals of porpoises at
play. However, we did not escape reproof, for I recollect the servant coming to tell us that
the minister had sent to inquire whether Mr. and Miss Fairfax had been taken ill, as he had
not seen them at the kirk in the afternoon. The minister in question was Mr. Wemyss, who had
married a younger sister of my mother's.

       *     *     *     *     *

When I was about thirteen my mother took a small apartment in Edinburgh for the winter, and
I was sent to a writing school, where I soon learnt to write a good hand, and studied the common
rules of arithmetic. My uncle William Henry Charters, lately returned from India, gave me a
pianoforte, and I had music lessons from an old lady who lived in the top story of one of the
highest houses in the old town. I slept in the same room with my mother. One morning I called
out, much alarmed, "There is lightning!" but my mother said, after a moment, "No; it is fire!"
and on opening the window shutters I found that the flakes of fire flying past had made the
glass quite hot. The next house but one was on fire and burning fiercely, and the people next
door were throwing everything they possessed, even china and glass, out of the windows into
the street. We dressed quickly, and my mother sent immediately to Trotter the upholsterer for
four men. We then put our family papers, our silver, &c., &c., into trunks; then my mother
said, "Now let us breakfast, it is time enough for us to move our things when the next house
takes fire." Of its doing so there was every probability because casks of turpentine and oil
were exploding from time to time in a carriage manufactory at the back of it. Several gentlemen
of our acquaintance who came to assist us were surprised to find us breakfasting quietly as
if there were nothing unusual going on. In fact my mother, though a coward in many things,
had, like most women, the presence of mind and the courage of necessity. The fire was extinguished,
and we had only the four men to pay for doing nothing, nor did we sacrifice any of our property
like our neighbours who had completely lost their heads from terror. I may mention here that
on one occasion when my father was at home he had been ill with a severe cold, and wore his
nightcap. While reading in the drawing-room one evening he called out, "I smell fire, there
is no time to be lost," so, snatching up a candle, he wandered from room to room followed by
us all still smelling fire, when one of the servants said, "O, sir, it is the tassel of your
nightcap that is on fire."

       *     *     *     *     *

On returning to Burntisland, I spent four or five hours daily at the piano; and for the sake
of having something to do, I taught myself Latin enough from such books as we had, to read
Cæsar's "Commentaries." I went that summer on a visit to my aunt at Jedburgh, and, for the
first time in my life, I met in my uncle, Dr. Somerville, with a friend who approved of my
thirst for knowledge. During long walks with him in the early mornings, he was so kind, that
I had the courage to tell him that I had been trying to learn Latin, but I feared it was in
vain; for my brother and other boys, superior to me in talent, and with every assistance, spent
years in learning it. He assured me, on the contrary, that in ancient times many women--some
of them of the highest rank in England--had been very elegant scholars, and that he would read
Virgil with me if I would come to his study for an hour or two every morning before breakfast,
which I gladly did.

I never was happier in my life than during the months I spent at Jedburgh. My aunt was a charming
companion--witty, full of anecdote, and had read more than most women of her day, especially
Shakespeare, who was her favourite author. My cousins had little turn for reading, but they
were better educated than most girls. They were taught to write by David Brewster, son of the
village schoolmaster, afterwards Sir David, who became one of the most distinguished philosophers
and discoverers of the age, member of all the scientific societies at home and abroad, and
at last President of the University of Edinburgh. He was studying in Edinburgh when I was at
Jedburgh; so I did not make his acquaintance then; but later in life he became my valued friend.
I did not know till after his death, that, while teaching my cousins, he fell in love with
my cousin Margaret. I do not believe she was aware of it. She was afterwards attached to an
officer in the army; but my aunt would not allow her to go to that outlandish place, Malta,
where he was quartered; so she lived and died unmarried. Steam has changed our ideas of distance
since that time.

My uncle's house--the manse--in which I was born, stands in a pretty garden, bounded by the
fine ancient abbey, which, though partially ruined, still serves as the parish kirk. The garden
produced abundance of common flowers, vegetables, and fruit. Some of the plum and pear trees
were very old, and were said to have been planted by the monks. Both were excellent in quality,
and very productive. The view from both garden and manse was over the beautiful narrow valley
through which the Jed flows. The precipitous banks of red sandstone are richly clothed with
vegetation, some of the trees ancient and very fine, especially the magnificent one called
the capon tree, and the lofty king of the wood, remnants of the fine forests which at one time
had covered the country. An inland scene was new to me, and I was never tired of admiring the
tree-crowned scaurs or precipices, where the rich glow of the red sandstone harmonized so well
with the autumnal tints of the foliage.

We often bathed in the pure stream of the Jed. My aunt always went with us, and was the merriest
of the party; we bathed in a pool which was deep under the high scaur, but sloped gradually
from the grassy bank on the other side. Quiet and transparent as the Jed was, it one day came
down with irresistible fury, red with the débris of the sandstone scaurs. There had been a
thunderstorm in the hills up-stream, and as soon as the river began to rise, the people came
out with pitchforks and hooks to catch the hayricks, sheaves of corn, drowned pigs, and other
animals that came sweeping past. My cousins and I were standing on the bridge, but my aunt
called us off when the water rose above the arches, for fear of the bridge giving way. We made
expeditions every day; sometimes we went nutting in the forest; at other times we gathered
mushrooms on the grass parks of Stewartfield, where there was a wood of picturesque old Scotch
firs, inhabited by a colony of rooks. I still kept the habit of looking out for birds, and
had the good fortune to see a heron, now a rare bird in the valley of the Jed. Some of us went
every day to a spring called the Allerly well, about a quarter of a mile from the manse, and
brought a large jug of its sparkling water for dinner. The evenings were cheerful; my aunt
sang Scotch songs prettily, and told us stories and legends about Jedburgh, which had been
a royal residence in the olden time. She had a tame white and tawny-coloured owl, which we
fed every night, and sometimes brought into the drawing-room. The Sunday evening never was
gloomy, though properly observed. We occasionally drank tea with acquaintances, and made visits
of a few days to the Rutherfurds of Edgerton and others; but I was always glad to return to
the manse.

My uncle, like other ministers of the Scottish Kirk, was allowed a glebe, which he farmed himself.
Besides horses, a cow was kept, which supplied the family with cream and butter, and the skimmed
milk was given to the poor; but as the milk became scarce, one woman was deprived, for the
time, of her share. Soon after, the cow was taken ill, and my uncle's ploughman, Will, came
to him and said, "Sir, gin you would give that carline Tibby Jones her soup o' milk again,
the coo would soon be weel eneugh." Will was by no means the only believer in witchcraft at
that time.

    [My mother's next visit was to the house of her uncle, William
    Charters, in Edinburgh. From thence she was enabled to partake of
    the advantages of a dancing-school of the period.]

       *     *     *     *     *

They sent me to Strange's dancing school. Strange himself was exactly like a figure on the
stage; tall and thin, he wore a powdered wig, with cannons at the ears, and a pigtail. Ruffles
at the breast and wrists, white waistcoat, black silk or velvet shorts, white silk stockings,
large silver buckles, and a pale blue coat completed his costume. He had a little fiddle on
which he played, called a kit. My first lesson was how to walk and make a curtsey. "Young lady,
if you visit the queen you must make three curtsies, lower and lower and lower as you approach
her. So--o--o," leading me on and making me curtsey. "Now, if the queen were to ask you to
eat a bit of mutton with her, what would you say?" Every Saturday afternoon all the scholars,
both boys and girls, met to practise in the public assembly rooms in George's Street. It was
a handsome large hall with benches rising like an amphitheatre. Some of the elder girls were
very pretty, and danced well, so these practisings became a lounge for officers from the Castle,
and other young men. We used always to go in full evening dress. We learnt the minuet de la
cour, reels and country dances. Our partners used to give us gingerbread and oranges. Dancing
before so many people was quite an exhibition, and I was greatly mortified one day when ready
to begin a minuet, by the dancing-master shaking me roughly and making me hold out my frock
properly.

Though kind in the main, my uncle and his wife were rather sarcastic and severe, and kept me
down a good deal, which I felt keenly, but said nothing. I was not a favourite with my family
at that period of my life, because I was reserved and unexpansive, in consequence of the silence
I was obliged to observe on the subjects which interested me. Three Miss Melvilles, friends,
or perhaps relatives, of Mrs. Charters, were always held up to me as models of perfection,
to be imitated in everything, and I wearied of hearing them constantly praised at my expense.

In a small society like that of Edinburgh there was a good deal of scandal and gossip; every
one's character and conduct were freely criticised, and by none more than by my aunt and her
friends. She used to sit at a window embroidering, where she not only could see every one that
passed, but with a small telescope could look into the dressing-room of a lady of her acquaintance,
and watch all she did. A spinster lady of good family, a cousin of ours, carried her gossip
so far, that she was tried for defamation, and condemned to a month's imprisonment, which she
actually underwent in the Tolbooth. She was let out just before the king's birthday, to celebrate
which, besides the guns fired at the Castle, the boys let off squibs and crackers in all the
streets. As the lady in question was walking up the High Street, some lads in a wynd, or narrow
street, fired a small cannon, and one of the slugs with which it was loaded hit her mouth and
wounded her tongue. This raised a universal laugh; and no one enjoyed it more than my uncle
William, who disliked this somewhat masculine woman.

Whilst at my uncle's house, I attended a school for writing and arithmetic, and made considerable
progress in the latter, for I liked it, but I soon forgot it from want of practice.

My uncle and aunt generally paid a visit to the Lyells of Kinnordy, the father and mother of
my friend Sir Charles Lyell, the celebrated geologist; but this time they accepted an invitation
from Captain Wedderburn, and took me with them. Captain Wedderburn was an old bachelor, who
had left the army and devoted himself to agriculture. Mounted on a very tall but quiet horse,
I accompanied my host every morning when he went over his farm, which was chiefly a grass farm.
The house was infested with rats, and a masculine old maid, who was of the party, lived in
such terror of them, that she had a light in her bedroom, and after she was in bed, made her
maid tuck in the white dimity curtains all round. One night we were awakened by violent screams,
and on going to see what was the matter, we found Miss Cowe in the middle of the room, bare-footed,
in her night-dress, screaming at the top of her voice. Instead of tucking the rats out of the
bed, the maid had tucked one in, and Miss Cowe on waking beheld it sitting on her pillow.

       *     *     *     *     *

There was great political agitation at this time. The corruption and tyranny of the court,
nobility, and clergy in France were so great, that when the revolution broke out, a large portion
of our population thought the French people were perfectly justified in revolting, and warmly
espoused their cause. Later many changed their opinions, shocked, as every one was, at the
death of the king and queen, and the atrocious massacres which took place in France. Yet some
not only approved of the revolution abroad, but were so disgusted with our mal-administration
at home, to which they attributed our failure in the war in Holland and elsewhere, that great
dissatisfaction and alarm prevailed throughout the country. The violence, on the other hand,
of the opposite party was not to be described,--the very name of Liberal was detested.

Great dissensions were caused by difference of opinion in families; and I heard people previously
much esteemed accused from this cause of all that was evil. My uncle William and my father
were as violent Tories as any.

The Liberals were distinguished by wearing their hair short, and when one day I happened to
say how becoming a crop was, and that I wished the men would cut off those ugly pigtails, my
father exclaimed, "By G--, when a man cuts off his queue, the head should go with it."

The unjust and exaggerated abuse of the Liberal party made me a Liberal. From my earliest years
my mind revolted against oppression and tyranny, and I resented the injustice of the world
in denying all those privileges of education to my sex which were so lavishly bestowed on men.
My liberal opinions, both in religion and politics, have remained unchanged (or, rather, have
advanced) throughout my life, but I have never been a republican. I have always considered
a highly-educated aristocracy essential, not only for government, but for the refinement of
a people.

    [After her winter in Edinburgh, my mother returned to Burntisland.
    Strange to say, she found there, in an illustrated Magazine of
    Fashions, the introduction to the great study of her life.]

       *     *     *     *     *

I was often invited with my mother to the tea-parties given either by widows or maiden ladies
who resided at Burntisland. A pool of commerce used to be keenly contested till a late hour
at these parties, which bored me exceedingly, but I there became acquainted with a Miss Ogilvie,
much younger than the rest, who asked me to go and see fancy works she was doing, and at which
she was very clever. I went next day, and after admiring her work, and being told how it was
done, she showed me a monthly magazine with coloured plates of ladies' dresses, charades, and
puzzles. At the end of a page I read what appeared to me to be simply an arithmetical question;
but on turning the page I was surprised to see strange looking lines mixed with letters, chiefly
X'es and Y's, and asked; "What is that?" "Oh," said Miss Ogilvie, "it is a kind of arithmetic:
they call it Algebra; but I can tell you nothing about it." And we talked about other things;
but on going home I thought I would look if any of our books could tell me what was meant by
Algebra.

In Robertson's "Navigation" I flattered myself that I had got precisely what I wanted; but
I soon found that I was mistaken. I perceived, however, that astronomy did not consist in star-gazing,[3]
and as I persevered in studying the book for a time, I certainly got a dim view of several
subjects which were useful to me afterwards. Unfortunately not one of our acquaintances or
relations knew anything of science or natural history; nor, had they done so, should I have
had courage to ask any of them a question, for I should have been laughed at. I was often very
sad and forlorn; not a hand held out to help me.

My uncle and aunt Charters took a house at Burntisland for the summer, and the Miss Melville
I have already mentioned came to pay them a visit. She painted miniatures, and from seeing
her at work, I took a fancy to learn to draw, and actually wasted time in copying prints; but
this circumstance enabled me to get elementary books on Algebra and Geometry without asking
questions of any one, as will be explained afterwards. The rest of the summer I spent in playing
on the piano and learning Greek enough to read Xenophon and part of Herodotus; then we prepared
to go to Edinburgh.

My mother was so much afraid of the sea that she never would cross the Firth except in a boat
belonging to a certain skipper who had served in the Navy and lost a hand; he had a hook fastened
on the stump to enable him to haul ropes. My brother and I were tired of the country, and one
sunny day we persuaded my mother to embark. When we came to the shore, the skipper said, "I
wonder that the leddy boats to-day, for though it is calm here under the lee of the land, there
is a stiff breeze outside." We made him a sign to hold his tongue, for we knew this as well
as he did. Our mother went down to the cabin and remained silent and quiet for a time; but
when we began to roll and be tossed about, she called out to the skipper, "George! this is
an awful storm, I am sure we are in great danger. Mind how you steer; remember, I trust in
you!" He laughed, and said, "Dinna trust in me, leddy; trust in God Almighty." Our mother,
in perfect terror, called out, "Dear me! is it come to that?" We burst out laughing, skipper
and all.

Nasmyth, an exceedingly good landscape painter, had opened an academy for ladies in Edinburgh,
a proof of the gradual improvement which was taking place in the education of the higher classes;
my mother, very willingly allowed me to attend it. The class was very full. I was not taught
to draw, but looked on while Nasmyth painted; then a picture was given me to copy, the master
correcting the faults. Though I spoilt canvas, I had made some progress by the end of the season.[4]
Mr. Nasmyth, besides being a good artist, was clever, well-informed, and had a great deal of
conversation. One day I happened to be near him while he was talking to the Ladies Douglas
about perspective. He said, "You should study Euclid's Elements of Geometry; the foundation
not only of perspective, but of astronomy and all mechanical science." Here, in the most unexpected
manner, I got the information I wanted, for I at once saw that it would help me to understand
some parts of Robertson's "Navigation;" but as to going to a bookseller and asking for Euclid
the thing was impossible! Besides I did not yet know anything definite about Algebra, so no
more could be done at that time; but I never lost sight of an object which had interested me
from the first.

I rose early, and played four or five hours, as usual, on the piano, and had lessons from Corri,
an Italian, who taught carelessly, and did not correct a habit I had of thumping so as to break
the strings; but I learned to tune a piano and mend the strings, as there was no tuner at Burntisland.
Afterwards I got over my bad habit and played the music then in vogue: pieces by Pleyel, Clementi,
Steibelt, Mozart, and Beethoven, the last being my favourite to this day. I was sometimes accompanied
on the violin by Mr. Thomson, the friend of Burns; more frequently by Stabilini; but I was
always too shy to play before people, and invariably played badly when obliged to do so, which
vexed me.

       *     *     *     *     *

The prejudice against the theatre had been very great in Scotland, and still existed among
the rigid Calvinists. One day, when I was fourteen or fifteen, on going into the drawing-room,
an old man sitting beside my mother rose and kissed me, saying, "I am one of your mother's
oldest friends." It was Home, the author of the tragedy of "Douglas." He was obliged to resign
his living in the kirk for the scandal of having had his play acted in the theatre in Edinburgh,
and some of his clerical friends were publicly rebuked for going to see it. Our family was
perfectly liberal in all these matters. The first time I had ever been in a theatre I went
with my father to see "Cymbeline." I had never neglected Shakespeare, and when our great tragedians,
Mrs. Siddons and her brother, John Kemble, came for a short time to act in Edinburgh, I could
think of nothing else. They were both remarkably handsome, and, notwithstanding the Scotch
prejudice, the theatre was crowded every night. It was a misfortune to me that my mother never
would go into society during the absence of my father, nor, indeed, at any time, except, perhaps,
to a dinner party; but I had no difficulty in finding a chaperone, as we knew many people.
I used to go to the theatre in the morning, and ask to see the plan of the house for the evening,
that I might know which ladies I could accompany to their boxes. Of course I paid for my place.
Our friends were so kind that I saw these great artists, as well as Charles Kemble, Young,
and Bannister, in "Hamlet," "Macbeth," "Othello," "Coriolanus," "The Gamester," &c.

It was greatly to the honour of the British stage that all the principal actors, men and women,
were of excellent moral character, and much esteemed. Many years afterwards, when Mrs. Siddons
was an old woman, I drank tea with her, and heard her read Milton and Shakespeare. Her daughter
told us to applaud, for she had been so much accustomed to it in the theatre that she could
not read with spirit without this expression of approbation.

My mother was pleased with my music and painting, and, although she did not go to the theatre
herself, she encouraged me to go. She was quite of the old school with regard to the duties
of women, and very particular about her table; and, although we were obliged to live with rigid
economy, our food was of the best quality, well dressed, and neatly served, for she could tell
the cook exactly what was amiss when anything was badly cooked. She thought besides that some
of the comfort of married life depended upon the table, so I was sent to a pastrycook for a
short time every day, to learn the art of cookery. I had for companions Miss Moncreiff, daughter
of Sir Henry Moncreiff Wellwood, a Scotch baronet of old family. She was older than I, pretty,
pleasing, and one of the belles of the day. We were amused at the time, and afterwards made
jellies and creams for little supper parties, then in fashion, though, as far as economy went,
we might as well have bought them.

On returning to Burntisland, I played on the piano as diligently as ever, and painted several
hours every day. At this time, however, a Mr. Craw came to live with us as tutor to my youngest
brother, Henry. He had been educated for the kirk, was a fair Greek and Latin scholar, but,
unfortunately for me, was no mathematician. He was a simple, good-natured kind of man, and
I ventured to ask him about algebra and geometry, and begged him, the first time he went to
Edinburgh, to buy me something elementary on these subjects, so he soon brought me "Euclid"
and Bonnycastle's "Algebra," which were the books used in the schools at that time. Now I had
got what I so long and earnestly desired. I asked Mr. Craw to hear me demonstrate a few problems
in the first book of "Euclid," and then I continued the study alone with courage and assiduity,
knowing I was on the right road. Before I began to read algebra I found it necessary to study
arithmetic again, having forgotten much of it. I never was expert at addition, for, in summing
up a long column of pounds, shillings, and pence, in the family account book, it seldom came
out twice the same way. In after life I, of course, used logarithms for the higher branches
of science.

I had to take part in the household affairs, and to make and mend my own clothes. I rose early,
played on the piano, and painted during the time I could spare in the daylight hours, but I
sat up very late reading Euclid. The servants, however, told my mother "It was no wonder the
stock of candles was soon exhausted, for Miss Mary sat up reading till a very late hour;" whereupon
an order was given to take away my candle as soon as I was in bed. I had, however, already
gone through the first six books of Euclid, and now I was thrown on my memory, which I exercised
by beginning at the first book, and demonstrating in my mind a certain number of problems every
night, till I could nearly go through the whole. There was X., who went raving mad about the
longitude!"

       *     *     *     *     *

In our younger days my brother Sam and I kept various festivals: we burnt nuts, ducked for
apples, and observed many other of the ceremonies of Halloween, so well described by Burns,
and we always sat up to hail the new year on New Year's Eve. When in Edinburgh we sometimes
disguised ourselves as "guisarts," and went about with a basket full of Christmas cakes called
buns and shortbread, and a flagon of "het-pint" or posset, to wish our friends a "Happy New
Year." At Christmas time a set of men, called the Christmas Wakes, walked slowly through the
streets during the midnight hours, playing our sweet Scotch airs on flageolets. I remember
the sound from a distance fell gently on my sleeping ear, swelled softly, and died away in
distance again, a passing breeze of sweet sound. It was very pleasing; some thought it too sad.

My grandfather was intimate with the Boswells of Balmuto, a bleak place a few miles to the
north of Burntisland. Lord Balmuto, a Scotch judge, who was then proprietor, had been a dancing
companion of my mother's, and had a son and two daughters, the eldest a nice girl of my age,
with whom I was intimate, so I gladly accepted an invitation to visit them at Balmuto. Lord
Balmuto was a large coarse-looking man, with black hair and beetling eyebrows. Though not vulgar,
he was passionate, and had a boisterous manner. My mother and her sisters gave him the nickname
of the "black bull of Norr'away," in allusion to the northern position of Balmuto. Mrs. Boswell
was gentle and ladylike. The son had a turn for chemistry, and his father took me to see what
they called the Laboratory. What a laboratory might be I knew not, as I had never heard the
word before, but somehow I did not like the look of the curiously-shaped glass things and other
apparatus, so when the son put a substance on the table, and took a hammer, his father saying,
"Now you will hear a fine report," I ran out of the room, saying, "I don't like reports." Sure
enough there was a very loud report, followed by a violent crash, and on going into the room
again, we found that the son had been knocked down, the father was trembling from head to foot,
and the apparatus had been smashed to pieces. They had had a narrow escape. Miss Boswell led
a dull life, often passing the winter with her mother in that solitary place, Balmuto; and
when in Edinburgh, she was much kept down by her father, and associated little with people
of her own age and station. The consequence was that she eloped with her drawing-master, to
the inexpressible rage and mortification of her father, who had all the Scotch pride of family
and pure blood.

This year we remained longer in the country than usual, and I went to spend Christmas with
the Oswalds of Dunnikeir. The family consisted of a son, a colonel in the army, and three daughters,
the youngest about my age, a bold horsewoman. She had talent, became a good Greek and Latin
scholar, and was afterwards married to the Earl of Elgin. More than seventy years after this
I had a visit from the Dean of Westminster and Lady Augusta Stanley, her daughter; a very charming
person, who told me about her family, of which I had heard nothing for years. I was very happy
to see the Dean, one of the most liberal and distinguished members of the Church of England,
and son of my old friend the late Bishop of Norwich.

       *     *     *     *     *

When I returned to Edinburgh Mr. Nasmyth was much pleased with the progress I had made in painting,
for, besides having copied several landscapes he had lent me, I had taken the outline of a
print and coloured it from a storm I saw at the end of our garden. This picture I still possess.

Dr. Blair, minister of the High Kirk of Edinburgh, the well-known author and professor of Rhetoric
and Belles Lettres in the University, an intimate friend of my grandfather's, had heard of
my turn for painting, and asked my mother to let him see some of my pictures. A few of the
best were sent to him, and were returned after a few days accompanied by a long letter from
the old gentleman, pointing out what he admired most in each picture. I was delighted with
the letter, and not a little vain of the praise.

    LETTER FROM DR. BLAIR TO MARY FAIRFAX.

    MY DEAR MISS FAIRFAX,

    This comes to return you a thousand thanks for the pleasure and
    entertainment I have had from your landscape paintings. I had them
    placed in the best light I could contrive in my drawing-room, and
    entertained myself a good while every day looking at them and
    admiring their beauties, which always grew upon me. I intend to
    return them to you to-morrow, or rather on the beginning of next
    week; and as they were taken particular care of, I hope they shall
    not appear to have suffered any injury.

    I have exhibited them to several people, some of whom were excellent
    judges, whom I brought on purpose to view them--Lady Miller, the
    Solicitor and Mrs. Blair, his lady, Dr. Hill, Miss Anne Ker of
    Nisbet, and a variety of ladies. All joined in praising them highly.
    The penserosa figure caught the highest admiration of any, from the
    gracefulness of the figure and attitude, and the boldness and
    propriety of the scenery. The two morning and evening views--one of
    Lochness, and the other of Elcho Castle--which make fine companions,
    and which I always placed together, were also highly admired. Each
    of them had their different partizans, and I myself was for a good
    while undetermined which of them to prefer. At last, I found the
    placidity of the scene in Elcho Castle, with the cottages among the
    trees, dwelt most on my imagination, though the gaiety and
    brightness of the morning sky in the other has also exquisite
    beauty. On the whole, I am persuaded that your taste and powers of
    execution in that art are uncommonly great, and that if you go on
    you must excel highly, and may go what length you please. Landscape
    painting has been always a great favourite with me; and you have
    really contributed much to my entertainment. As I thought you might
    wish to know my sentiments, after your paintings had been a little
    considered, I was led to write you these lines (in which I assure
    you there is nothing flattering), before sending back your pieces to
    you. With best compliments to Lady Fairfax, believe me,

                            Your obliged and most obedient Servant,
                                                            HUGH BLAIR.
    ARGYLL SQUARE, 11th April (probably) 1796.

A day or two after this a Mrs. Ramsay, a rich proud widow, a relation of my mother's, came
with her daughter, who was an heiress, to pay us a morning visit. Looking round the room she
asked who had painted the pictures hung up on the walls. My mother, who was rather proud of
them, said they were painted by me. "I am glad," said Mrs. Ramsay, "that Miss Fairfax has any
kind of talent that may enable her to win her bread, for everyone knows she will not have a
sixpence." It was a very severe hit, because it was true. Had it been my lot to win my bread
by painting, I fear I should have fared badly, but I never should have been ashamed of it;
on the contrary, I should have been very proud had I been successful.

Not long after Mrs. Ramsay's visit to my mother, Miss Ramsay went to visit the Dons, at Newton
Don, a pretty place near Kelso. Miss Ramsay and the three Miss Dons were returning from a long
walk; they had reached the park of Newton Don, when they heard the dinner bell ring, and fearing
to be too late for dinner, instead of going round, they attempted to cross a brook which runs
through the park. One of the Miss Dons stumbled on the stepping-stones and fell into the water.
Her two sisters and Miss Ramsay, trying to save her, fell in one after another. The three Miss
Dons were drowned, but Miss Ramsay, who wore a stiff worsted petticoat, was buoyed up by it
and carried down stream, where she caught by the branch of a tree and was saved. She never
recovered the shock of the dreadful scene.

    [By this time my mother was grown up, and extremely pretty. All
    those who knew her speak of her rare and delicate beauty, both of
    face and figure. They called her the "Rose of Jedwood." She kept her
    beauty to the last day of her life, and was a beautiful old woman,
    as she had been a lovely young one. She used to say, laughing, that
    "it was very hard no one ever thought of painting her portrait so
    long as she was young and pretty." After she became celebrated,
    various likenesses were taken of her, by far the best of which are a
    beautiful bust, modelled at Rome in 1844 by Mr. Lawrence Macdonald,
    and a crayon drawing by Mr. James Swinton, done in London in 1848.
    My mother always looked considerably younger than her age; even at
    ninety, she looked younger than some who were her juniors by several
    years. This was owing, no doubt, principally to her being small and
    delicate in face and figure, but also, I think, to the extreme
    youthfulness and freshness of both her heart and mind, neither of
    which ever grew old. It certainly was not due to a youthful style of
    dress, for she had perfect taste in such matters, as well as in
    other things; and although no one spent less thought or money on it
    than she, my mother was at all times both neatly and becomingly
    dressed. She never was careless; and her room, her papers, and all
    that belonged to her were invariably in the most beautiful order. My
    mother's recollections of this period of her life are as follows:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

At that time Edinburgh was really the capital of Scotland; most of the Scotch families of distinction
spent the winter there, and we had numerous acquaintances who invited me to whatever gaiety
was going on. As my mother refused to go into society when my father was at sea, I had to find
a chaperon; but I never was at a loss, for we were somehow related to the Erskine family, and
the Countess of Buchan, an amiable old lady, was always ready to take charge of me.

It was under Lady Buchan's care that I made my first appearance at a ball, and my first dancing
partner was the late Earl of Minto, then Mr. Gilbert Elliot, with whom I was always on very
friendly terms, as well as with his family. Many other ladies were willing to take charge of
me, but a chaperon was only required for the theatre, and concerts, and for balls in the public
assembly rooms; at private balls the lady of the house was thought sufficient. Still, although
I was sure to know everybody in the room, or nearly so, I liked to have some one with whom
to enter and to sit beside. Few ladies kept carriages, but went in sedan chairs, of which there
were stands in the principal streets. Ladies were generally attended by a man-servant, but
I went alone, as our household consisted of two maid-servants only. My mother knew, however,
that the Highlanders who carried me could be trusted. I was fond of dancing, and never without
partners, and often came home in bright daylight. The dances were reels, country dances, and
sometimes Sir Roger de Coverley.

    [At this period, although busily engaged in studying painting at
    Nasmyth's academy, practising the piano five hours a day, and
    pursuing her more serious studies zealously, my mother went a good
    deal into society, for Edinburgh was a gay, sociable place, and many
    people who recollect her at that time, and some who were her dancing
    partners, have told me she was much admired, and a great favourite.
    They said she had a graceful figure, below the middle size, a small
    head, well set on her shoulders, a beautiful complexion, bright,
    intelligent eyes, and a profusion of soft brown hair. Besides the
    various occupations I have mentioned, she made all her own dresses,
    even for balls. These, however, unlike the elaborate productions of
    our day, were simply of fine India muslin, with a little Flanders
    lace. She says of her life in Edinburgh:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

Girls had perfect liberty at that time in Edinburgh; we walked together in Princes Street,
the fashionable promenade, and were joined by our dancing partners. We occasionally gave little
supper parties, and presented these young men to our parents as they came in. At these meetings
we played at games, danced reels, or had a little music--never cards. After supper there were
toasts, sentiments, and songs. There were always one or two hot dishes, and a variety of sweet
things and fruit. Though I was much more at ease in society now, I was always terribly put
out when asked for a toast or a sentiment. Like other girls, I did not dislike a little quiet
flirtation; but I never could speak across a table, or take a leading part in conversation.
This diffidence was probably owing to the secluded life I led in my early youth. At this time
I gladly took part in any gaiety that was going on, and spent the day after a ball in idleness
and gossiping with my friends; but these were rare occasions, for the balls were not numerous,
and I never lost sight of the main object of my life, which was to prosecute my studies. So
I painted at Nasmyth's, played the usual number of hours on the piano, worked and conversed
with my mother in the evening; and as we kept early hours, I rose at day-break, and after dressing,
I wrapped myself in a blanket from my bed on account of the excessive cold--having no fire
at that hour--and read algebra or the classics till breakfast time. I had, and still have,
determined perseverance, but I soon found that it was in vain to occupy my mind beyond a certain
time. I grew tired and did more harm than good; so, if I met with a difficult point, for example,
in algebra, instead of poring over it till I was bewildered, I left it, took my work or some
amusing book, and resumed it when my mind was fresh. Poetry was my great resource on these
occasions, but at a later period I read novels, the "Old English Baron," the "Mysteries of
Udolpho," the "Romance of the Forest," &c. I was very fond of ghost and witch stories, both
of which were believed in by most of the common people and many of the better educated. I heard
an old naval officer say that he never opened his eyes after he was in bed. I asked him why?
and he replied, "For fear I should see something!" Now I did not actually believe in either
ghosts or witches, but yet, when alone in the dead of the night, I have been seized with a
dread of, I know not what. Few people will now understand me if I say I was eerie, a Scotch
expression for superstitious awe. I have been struck, on reading the life of the late Sir David
Brewster, with the influence the superstitions of the age and country had on both learned and
unlearned. Sir David was one of the greatest philosophers of the day. He was only a year younger
than I; we were both born in Jedburgh, and both were influenced by the superstitions of our
age and country in a similar manner, for he confessed that, although he did not believe in
ghosts, he was eerie when sitting up to a late hour in a lone house that was haunted. This
is a totally different thing from believing in spirit-rapping, which I scorn.

We returned as usual to Burntisland, in spring, and my father, who was at home, took my mother
and me a tour in the Highlands. I was a great admirer of Ossian's poems, and viewed the grand
and beautiful scenery with awe; and my father, who was of a romantic disposition, smiled at
my enthusiastic admiration of the eagles as they soared above the mountains. These noble birds
are nearly extirpated; and, indeed, the feathered tribes, which were more varied and numerous
in Britain than in any part of Europe, will soon disappear. They will certainly be avenged
by the insects.

On coming home from the journey I was quite broken-hearted to find my beautiful goldfinch,
which used to draw its water so prettily with an ivory cup and little chain, dead in its cage.
The odious wretches of servants, to whose care I trusted it, let it die of hunger. My heart
is deeply pained as I write this, seventy years afterwards.

       *     *     *     *     *

In Fifeshire, as elsewhere, political opinions separated friends and disturbed the peace of
families; discussions on political questions were violent and dangerous on account of the hard-drinking
then so prevalent. At this time the oppression and cruelty committed in Great Britain were
almost beyond endurance. Men and women were executed for what at the present day would only
have been held to deserve a few weeks' or months' imprisonment.[5] Every liberal opinion was
crushed, men were entrapped into the army by promises which were never kept, and press-gangs
tore merchant seamen from their families, and forced them to serve in the navy, where they
were miserably provided for. The severity of discipline in both services amounted to torture.
Such was the treatment of the brave men on whom the safety of the nation depended! They could
bear it no longer; a mutiny broke out in the fleet which had been cruising off the Texel to
watch the movements of a powerful Dutch squadron. The men rose against their officers, took
the command, and ship after ship returned to England, leaving only a frigate and the "Venerable,"
commanded by Admiral Duncan, with my father as his flag-captain. To deceive the Dutch, they
continued to make signals, as if the rest of the fleet were in the offing, till they could
return to England; when, without delay, Admiral Duncan and my father went alone on board each
ship, ordered the men to arrest the ringleaders, which was done, and the fleet immediately
returned to its station off the Texel. At last, on the morning of the 11th October, 1797, the
Dutch fleet came out in great force, and formed in line of battle; that is, with their broadsides
towards our ships. Then Admiral Duncan said to my father, "Fairfax, what shall we do?"--"Break
their line, sir, and draw up on the other side, where they will not be so well prepared."--"Do
it, then, Fairfax." So my father signalled accordingly. The circumstances of the battle, which
was nobly fought on both sides, are historical. Nine ships of the line and two frigates were
taken, and my father was sent home to announce the victory to the Admiralty. The rejoicing
was excessive; every town and village was illuminated; and the Administration, relieved from
the fear of a revolution, continued more confidently its oppressive measures.

When Admiral Duncan came to London, he was made a Baron, and afterwards Earl of Camperdown;
and, by an unanimous vote of the House of Commons, he received a pension or a sum of money,
I forget which; my father was knighted, and made Colonel of Marines. Earl Spencer was First
Lord of the Admiralty at the time, and Lady Spencer said to my father, "You ask for the promotion
of your officers, but you never have asked a reward for yourself." He replied, "I leave that
to my country." But his country did nothing for him; and at his death my mother had nothing
to live upon but the usual pension of an Admiral's widow, of seventy-five pounds a-year. Our
friends, especially Robert Ferguson, junior, of Raith, made various attempts to obtain an addition
to it; but it was too late: Camperdown was forgotten.

I remember one morning going to Lord Camperdown's house in Edinburgh with my mother, to see
a very large painting, representing the quarter-deck of the "Venerable," Admiral Duncan, as
large as life, standing upright, and the Dutch Admiral, De Winter, presenting his sword to
my father. Another representation of the same scene may be seen among the numerous pictures
of naval battles which decorate the walls of the great hall at Greenwich Hospital. Many years
afterwards I was surprised to see an engraving of this very picture in the public library at
Milan. I did not know that one existed.

At a great entertainment given to Lord Duncan by the East India Company, then in great power,
the President asked my father, who sat at his left hand, if he had any relation in India? He
replied, "My eldest son is in the Company's military service." "Then," said the President,
"he shall be a Writer, the highest appointment in my power to bestow." I cannot tell how thankful
we were; for, instead of a separation of almost a lifetime, it gave hopes that my brother might
make a sufficient fortune in a few years to enable him to come home. There was a great review
of the troops at Calcutta, under a burning sun; my brother returned to the barracks, sun-struck,
where he found his appointment, and died that evening, at the age of twenty-one.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [My mother has often told us of her heart-broken parting with this
    brother on his going to India. It was then almost for a lifetime,
    and he was her favourite brother, and the companion of her
    childhood. He must have been wonderfully handsome, judging from a
    beautifully-painted miniature which we have of him.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Public events became more and more exciting every day, and difficulties occurred at home. There
had been bad harvests, and there was a great scarcity of bread; the people were much distressed,
and the manufacturing towns in England were almost in a state of revolution; but the fear of
invasion kept them quiet. I gloried in the brilliant success of our arms by land and by sea;
and although I should have been glad if the people had resisted oppression at home, when we
were threatened with invasion, I would have died to prevent a Frenchman from landing on our
coast. No one can imagine the intense excitement which pervaded all ranks at that time. Every
one was armed, and, notwithstanding the alarm, we could not but laugh at the awkward, and often
ridiculous, figures of our old acquaintances, when at drill in uniform. At that time I went
to visit my relations at Jedburgh. Soon after my arrival, we were awakened in the middle of
the night by the Yeomanry entering the town at full gallop. The beacons were burning on the
top of the Cheviots and other hills, as a signal that the French had landed. When day came,
every preparation was made; but it was a false alarm.

The rapid succession of victories by sea and land was intensely exciting. We always illuminated
our house, and went to the rocky bank in our southern garden to see the illumination of Edinburgh,
Leith, and the shipping in the Roads, which was inexpressibly beautiful, though there was no
gas in those times. It often happened that balls were given by the officers of the ships of
war that came occasionally to Leith Roads, and I was always invited, but never allowed to go;
for my mother thought it foolish to run the risk of crossing the Firth, a distance of seven
miles, at a late hour, in a small open boat and returning in the morning, as the weather was
always uncertain, and the sea often rough from tide and wind. On one occasion, my father was
at home, and, though it was blowing hard, I thought he would not object to accepting the invitation;
but he said, "Were it a matter of duty, you should go, even at the risk of your life, but for
a ball, certainly not."

We were as poor as ever, even more so; for my father was led into unavoidable expenses in London;
so, after all the excitement, we returned to our more than usually economical life. No events
worth mentioning happened for a long time. I continued my diversified pursuits as usual; had
they been more concentrated, it would have been better; but there was no choice; for I had
not the means of pursuing any one as far as I could wish, nor had I any friend to whom I could
apply for direction or information. I was often deeply depressed at spending so much time to
so little purpose.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 5: The late Justice Coltman told us, when he and Lady Coltman came to see my father
and mother at Siena, that he recollected when he first went the circuit seeing more than twenty
people hanged at once at York, chiefly for horse-stealing and such offences.--EDITOR.]

CHAPTER V.

FIRST MARRIAGE (1804)--WIDOWHOOD--STUDIES--SECOND MARRIAGE.

    [Mr. Samuel Greig was a distant relation of the Charters family. His
    father, an officer in the British navy, had been sent by our
    government, at the request of the Empress Catharine, to organize the
    Russian navy. Mr. Greig came to the Firth of Forth on board a
    Russian frigate, and was received by the Fairfaxes at Burntisland
    with Scotch hospitality, as a cousin. He eventually married my
    mother; not, however, until he had obtained the Russian consulship,
    and settled permanently in London, for Russia was then governed in
    the most arbitrary and tyrannical manner, and was neither a safe nor
    a desirable residence, and my grandfather only gave his consent to
    the marriage on this condition. My mother says:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

My cousin, Samuel Greig, commissioner of the Russian navy, and Russian consul for Britain,
came to pay us a visit, and ultimately became my husband. Fortune I had none, and my mother
could only afford to give me a very moderate trousseau, consisting chiefly of fine personal
and household linen. When I was going away she gave me twenty pounds to buy a shawl or something
warm for the following winter. I knew that the President of the Academy of Painting, Sir Arthur
Shee, had painted a portrait of my father immediately after the battle of Camperdown, and I
went to see it. The likeness pleased me,--the price was twenty pounds; so instead of a warm
shawl I bought my father's picture, which I have since given to my nephew, Sir William George
Fairfax. My husband's brother, Sir Alexis Greig, who commanded the Russian naval force in the
Black Sea for more than twenty years, came to London about this time, and gave me some furs,
which were very welcome. Long after this, I applied to Sir Alexis, at the request of Dr. Whewell,
Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, and through his interest an order was issued by the Russian
Government for simultaneous observations to be made of the tides on every sea-coast of the empire.

    LETTER FROM DR. WHEWELL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    UNIVERSITY CLUB, Jan. 5, 1838.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I enclose a memorandum respecting tide observations, to which
    subject I am desirous of drawing the attention of the Russian
    Government. Nobody knows better than you do how much remains to be
    done respecting the tides, and what important results any advance in
    that subject would have. I hope, through your Russian friends, you
    may have the means of bringing this memorandum to the notice of the
    administration of their navy, so as to lead to some steps being
    taken, in the way of directing observations to be made. The Russian
    Government has shown so much zeal in promoting science, that I hope
    it will not be difficult to engage them in a kind of research so
    easy, so useful practically, and so interesting in its theoretical
    bearing.

                    Believe me, dear Mrs. Somerville,
                                     Very faithfully yours,
                                                     W. WHEWELL.

       *     *     *     *     *

My husband had taken me to his bachelor's house in London, which was exceedingly small and
ill ventilated. I had a key of the neighbouring square, where I used to walk. I took lessons
in French, and learnt to speak it so as to be understood. I had no carriage, so went to the
nearest church; but, accustomed to our Scotch Kirk, I never could sympathise with the coldness
and formality of the service of the Church of England. However, I thought it my duty to go
to church and join where I could in prayer with the congregation.

There was no Italian Opera in Edinburgh; the first time I went to one was in London as chaperone
to Countess Catharine Woronzow, afterwards Countess of Pembroke, who was godmother to my eldest
son. I sometimes spent the evening with her, and occasionally dined at the embassy; but went
nowhere else till we became acquainted with the family of Mr. Thomson Bonar, a rich Russian
merchant, who lived in great luxury at a beautiful villa at Chiselhurst, in the neighbourhood
of London, which has since become the refuge of the ex-Emperor Napoleon the Third and the Empress
Eugénie. The family consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Bonar,--kind, excellent people,--with two sons
and a daughter, all grown up. We were invited from time to time to spend ten days or a fortnight
with them, which I enjoyed exceedingly. I had been at a riding school in Edinburgh, and rode
tolerably, but had little practice, as we could not afford to keep horses. On our first visit,
Mrs. Bonar asked me if I would ride with her, as there was a good lady's horse to spare, but
I declined. Next day I said, "I should like to ride with you." "Why did you not go out with
me yesterday?" she asked. "Because I had heard so much of English ladies' riding, that I thought
you would clear all the hedges and ditches, and that I should be left behind lying on the ground."
I spent many pleasant days with these dear good people; and no words can express the horror
I felt when we heard that they had been barbarously murdered in their bedroom. The eldest son
and daughter had been at a ball somewhere near, and on coming home they found that one of the
men-servants had dashed out the brains of both their parents with a poker. The motive remains
a mystery to this day, for it was not robbery.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [After three years of married life, my mother returned to her
    father's house in Burntisland, a widow, with two little boys. The
    youngest died in childhood. The eldest was Woronzow Greig,
    barrister-at-law, late Clerk of the Peace for Surrey. He died
    suddenly in 1865, to the unspeakable sorrow of his family, and the
    regret of all who knew him.]

       *     *     *     *     *

I was much out of health after my husband's death, and chiefly occupied with my children, especially
with the one I was nursing; but as I did not go into society, I rose early, and, having plenty
of time, I resumed my mathematical studies. By this time I had studied plane and spherical
trigonometry, conic sections, and Fergusson's "Astronomy." I think it was immediately after
my return to Scotland that I attempted to read Newton's "Principia." I found it extremely difficult,
and certainly did not understand it till I returned to it some time after, when I studied that
wonderful work with great assiduity, and wrote numerous notes and observations on it. I obtained
a loan of what I believe was called the Jesuit's edition, which helped me. At this period mathematical
science was at a low ebb in Britain; reverence for Newton had prevented men from adopting the
"Calculus," which had enabled foreign mathematicians to carry astronomical and mechanical science
to the highest perfection. Professors Ivory and de Morgan afterwards adopted the "Calculus";
but several years elapsed before Mr. Herschel and Mr. Babbage were joint-editors with Professor
Peacock in publishing an abridged translation of La Croix's "Treatise on the Differential and
Integral Calculus." I became acquainted with Mr. Wallace, who was, if I am not mistaken, mathematical
teacher of the Military College at Marlow, and editor of a mathematical journal published there.
I had solved some of the problems contained in it and sent them to him, which led to a correspondence,
as Mr. Wallace sent me his own solutions in return. Mine were sometimes right and sometimes
wrong, and it occasionally happened that we solved the same problem by different methods. At
last I succeeded in solving a prize problem! It was a diophantine problem, and I was awarded
a silver medal cast on purpose with my name, which pleased me exceedingly.

Mr. Wallace was elected Professor of Mathematics in the University of Edinburgh, and was very
kind to me. When I told him that I earnestly desired to go through a regular course of mathematical
and astronomical science, even including the highest branches, he gave me a list of the requisite
books, which were in French, and consisted of Francoeur's pure "Mathematics," and his "Elements
of Mechanics," La Croix's "Algebra," and his large work on the "Differential and Integral Calculus,"
together with his work on "Finite Differences and Series," Biot's "Analytical Geometry and
Astronomy," Poisson's "Treatise on Mechanics," La Grange's "Theory of Analytical Functions,"
Euler's "Algebra," Euler's "Isoperimetrical Problems" (in Latin), Clairault's "Figure of the
Earth," Monge's "Application of Analysis to Geometry," Callet's "Logarithms," La Place's "Mécanique
Céleste," and his "Analytical Theory of Probabilities," &c., &c., &c.[6]

I was thirty-three years of age when I bought this excellent little library. I could hardly
believe that I possessed such a treasure when I looked back on the day that I first saw the
mysterious word "Algebra," and the long course of years in which I had persevered almost without
hope. It taught me never to despair. I had now the means, and pursued my studies with increased
assiduity; concealment was no longer possible, nor was it attempted. They expected me to entertain
and keep a gay house for them, and in that they were disappointed. As I was quite independent,
I did not care for their criticism. A great part of the day I was occupied with my children;
in the evening I worked, played piquet with my father, or played on the piano, sometimes with
violin accompaniment.

       *     *     *     *     *

This was the most brilliant period of the Edinburgh Review; it was planned and conducted with
consummate talent by a small society of men of the most liberal principles. Their powerful
articles gave a severe and lasting blow to the oppressive and illiberal spirit which had hitherto
prevailed. I became acquainted with some of these illustrious men, and with many of their immediate
successors. I then met Henry Brougham, who had so remarkable an influence on my future life.
His sister had been my early companion, and while visiting her I saw her mother--a fine, intelligent
old lady, a niece of Robertson the historian. I had seen the Rev. Sydney Smith, that celebrated
wit and able contributor to the Review, at Burntisland, where he and his wife came for sea-bathing.
Long afterwards we lived on the most friendly terms till their deaths. Of that older group
no one was more celebrated than Professor Playfair. He knew that I was reading the "Mécanique
Céleste," and asked me how I got on? I told him that I was stopped short by a difficulty now
and then, but I persevered till I got over it. He said, "You would do better to read on for
a few pages and return to it again, it will then no longer seem so difficult." I invariably
followed his advice and with much success.

Professor Playfair was a man of the most varied accomplishments and of the highest scientific
distinction. He was an elderly man when I first became acquainted with him, by no means good-looking,
but with a benevolent expression, somewhat concealed by the large spectacles he always wore.
His manner was gravely cheerful; he was perfectly amiable, and was both respected and loved,
but he could be a severe though just critic. He liked female society, and, philosopher as he
was, marked attention from the sex obviously flattered him.

I had now read a good deal on the higher branches of mathematics and physical astronomy, but
as I never had been taught, I was afraid that I might imagine that I understood the subjects
when I really did not; so by Professor Wallace's advice I engaged his brother to read with
me, and the book I chose to study with him was the "Mécanique Céleste." Mr. John Wallace was
a good mathematician, but I soon found that I understood the subject as well as he did. I was
glad, however, to have taken this resolution, as it gave me confidence in myself and consequently
courage to persevere. We had advanced but little in this work when my marriage with my cousin,
William Somerville (1812), put an end to scientific pursuits for a time.

    [With regard to my father's family, I cannot do better than quote
    what my grandfather, the Rev. Thomas Somerville, says in his "Life
    and Times":--"I am a descendant of the ancient family of Somerville
    of Cambusnethan, which was a branch of the Somervilles of Drum,
    ennobled in the year 1424. Upon the death of George Somerville, of
    Corhouse, fifty years ago, I became the only male representative of
    the family." There is a quaint old chronicle, entitled "Memorie of
    the Somervilles," written by James, eleventh Lord Somerville, who
    died in 1690, which was printed for private distribution, and edited
    by Sir Walter Scott, and gives ample details of all the branches of
    our family. Although infinitely too prolix for our nineteenth
    century ideas, it contains many curious anecdotes and pictures of
    Scottish life.

    My father was the eldest son of the minister of Jedburgh, and until
    his marriage with my mother, had lived almost entirely abroad and in
    our colonies. It was always a subject of regret to my mother that my
    father never could be induced to publish an account of his important
    travels in South Africa, for which he had ample materials in the
    notes he brought home, many of which we still possess. Without being
    very deeply learned on any one special subject, he was generally
    well-informed, and very intelligent. He was an excellent classical
    scholar, and could repeat long passages from Horace and other
    authors. He had a lively interest in all branches of natural
    history, was a good botanist and mineralogist, and could take note
    of all the strange animals, plants, or minerals he saw in his
    adventurous journies in the countries, now colonized, but then the
    hunting-grounds of Caffres and other uncivilized tribes. He was the
    first white man who penetrated so far into the country, and it was
    not without great risk. Indeed, on one occasion he was sentenced to
    death by a Caffre chief, and only saved by the interposition of the
    chief's mother.

    My father's style in writing English was singularly pure and
    correct, and he was very fastidious on this topic--a severe critic,
    whether in correcting the children's lessons or in reading over the
    last proof sheets of my mother's works previous to their
    publication. These qualities would have fitted him very well to
    write the history of his travels, but he disliked the trouble of it,
    and, never having the slightest ambition on his own account, he let
    the time for publication slip by. Others travelled over the country
    he first explored, and the novelty was at an end. He was far happier
    in helping my mother in various ways, searching the libraries for
    the books she required, indefatigably copying and recopying her
    manuscripts, to save her time. No trouble seemed too great which he
    bestowed upon her; it was a labour of love. My father was most
    kindhearted, and I have often heard my mother say how many persons
    he had assisted in life, and what generous actions he had done,
    many of them requited with ingratitude, and with betrayal of
    confidence. From the way my mother speaks of their life, it can be
    seen how happy was their marriage and how much sympathy there was
    between them. Speaking of his son's marriage with my mother, the
    Rev. Dr. Somerville says, in his "Life and Times," page 390: "To
    myself this connection was on every account peculiarly gratifying.
    Miss Fairfax had been born and nursed in my house; her father being
    at that time abroad on public service. She afterwards often resided
    in my family, was occasionally my scholar, and was looked upon by me
    and my wife as if she had been one of our own children. I can truly
    say, that next to them she was the object of our most tender regard.
    Her ardent thirst for knowledge, her assiduous application to study,
    and her eminent proficiency in science and the fine arts, have
    procured her a celebrity rarely obtained by any of her sex. But she
    never displays any pretensions to superiority, while the affability
    of her temper, and the gentleness of her manners afford constant
    sources of gratification to her friends. But what, above all other
    circumstances, rendered my son's choice acceptable to me, was that
    it had been the anxious, though secret, desire of my dear wife." I
    have already said that this esteem and affection of her
    father-in-law was warmly responded to by my mother. The following
    letter from her to him shows it vividly:--]

    LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO THE REV. DR. SOMERVILLE.

    EDINBURGH, 1st June, 1812.

    MY DEAR SIR,

    I have this moment been gratified and delighted with your excellent
    and affectionate letter; the intercourse we have so long enjoyed has
    always been a source of the purest pleasure to me, and the kind
    interest you have taken from my infancy in my welfare was at all
    times highly flattering, and much valued; but now that the sacred
    name of Father is added, nothing is wanting to complete my
    happiness; and you may rest assured that William is not more anxious
    to hasten our visit to Jedburgh than I am.... With the affectionate
    love of all here,

             I remain your ever most affectionate daughter,
                                                  MARY SOMERVILLE.

    P.S.--I am much flattered by the Latin quotation, and feel happy
    that your instructions have enabled me to read it.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [I will now proceed with the extracts from my mother's
    Recollections:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

My husband had been present at the taking of the Cape of Good Hope, and was sent by the authorities
to make a treaty with the savage tribes on the borders of the colony, who had attacked the
boors, or Dutch farmers, and carried off their cattle. In this journey he was furnished with
a waggon and accompanied by Mr. Daniel, a good artist, who made drawings of the scenery, as
well as of the animals and people. The savage tribes again became troublesome, and in a second
expedition my cousin was only accompanied by a faithful Hottentot as interpreter. They were
both mounted, and each led a spare horse with such things as were absolutely necessary, and
when they bivouacked where, for fear of the natives, they did not dare light a fire to keep
off the wild beasts, one kept watch while the other slept. After many adventures and dangers,
my husband reached the Orange River, and was the first white man who had ever been in that
part of Africa. He afterwards served in Canada and in Sicily at the head of the medical staff,
under his friend General Sir James Craig. On returning to England he generally lived in London,
so that he was seldom with his family, with whom he was not a favourite on account of his liberal
principles, the very circumstance that was an attraction to me. He had lived in the world,
was extremely handsome, had gentlemanly manners, spoke good English, and was emancipated from
Scotch prejudices.

I had been living very quietly with my parents and children, so until I was engaged to my cousin
I was not aware of the extreme severity with which my conduct was criticised by his family,
and I have no doubt by many others; for as soon as our engagement was known I received a most
impertinent letter from one of his sisters, who was unmarried, and younger than I, saying,
she "hoped I would give up my foolish manner of life and studies, and make a respectable and
useful wife to her brother." I was extremely indignant. My husband was still more so, and wrote
a severe and angry letter to her; none of the family dared to interfere again. I lived in peace
with her, but there was a coldness and reserve between us ever after. I forgot to mention that
during my widowhood I had several offers of marriage. One of the persons whilst he was paying
court to me, sent me a volume of sermons with the page ostentatiously turned down at a sermon
on the Duties of a Wife, which were expatiated upon in the most illiberal and narrow-minded
language. I thought this as impertinent as it was premature; sent back the book and refused
the proposal.

My uncle, the Rev. Dr. Somerville, was delighted with my marriage with his son, for he was
liberal, and sincerely attached to me. We were married by his intimate friend, Sir Henry Moncreiff
Wellwood, and set off for the lakes in Cumberland. My husband's second sister, Janet, resolved
to go with us, and she succeeded through the influence of my aunt, now my mother-in-law--a
very agreeable, but bold, determined person, who was always very kind and sincerely attached
to me. We were soon followed by my cousin, Samuel Somerville and his wife. We had only been
a day or two in the little inn at Lowood when he was taken ill of a fever, which detained us
there for more than a month. During his illness he took a longing for currant jelly, and here
my cookery was needed; I made some that was excellent, and I never can forget the astonishment
expressed at my being able to be so useful.

Somerville and I proceeded to London; and we managed to obtain a good position near Temple
Bar to see the Emperor of Russia, the King of Prussia and his sons, Blucher, Platoff, the Hetman
of the Cossacks, &c., &c., enter the City. There was a brilliant illumination in the evening,
and great excitement. We often saw these noted persons afterwards, but we did not stay long
in London, as my husband was appointed head of the Army Medical Department in Scotland, so
we settled in Edinburgh. As he was allowed to have a secretary, he made choice of Donald Finlayson,
a young man of great learning and merit, who was to act as tutor to my son, Woronzow Greig,
then attending the High School, of which Mr. Pillans was master. Mr. Finlayson was a remarkably
good Greek scholar, and my husband said, "Why not take advantage of such an opportunity of
improvement?" So I read Homer for an hour every morning before breakfast. Mr. Finlayson joined
the army as surgeon, and distinguished himself by his courage and humanity during the battle
of Waterloo; but he was lost in the march of the army to Paris, and his brother George, after
having sought for him in vain, came to live with us in his stead. He excelled in botany, and
here again, by my husband's advice, I devoted a morning hour to that science, though I was
nursing a baby at the time. I knew the vulgar name of most of the plants that Mr. Finlayson
had gathered, but now I was taught systematically, and afterwards made a herbarium, both of
land plants and fuci. This young man's hopeful career was early arrested by his love of science,
for he died of jungle fever in Bengal, caught while in search of plants.

Professor Playfair was now old, and resigned his chair, which Mr. Leslie was perfectly competent
to fill on account of his acknowledged scientific acquirements; but, being suspected of heretical
opinions, his appointment was keenly opposed, especially on the part of the clergy, and a violent
contest arose, which ended in his favour. We became acquainted with him and liked him. He was
a man of original genius, full of information on a variety of subjects, agreeable in conversation
and good natured, but with a singular vanity as to personal appearance. Though one of the coarsest
looking men I ever knew, he talked so much of polish and refinement that it tempted Mr. William
Clerk, of Eldin, to make a very clever clay model of his ungainly figure. The professor's hair
was grey, and he dyed it with something that made it purple; and, as at that time the art was
not brought to its present perfection, the operation was tedious and only employed at intervals,
so that the professor's hair was often white at the roots and dark purple at the extremities.
He was always falling in love, and, to Somerville's inexpressible amusement, he made me his
decoy duck, inviting me to see some experiments, which he performed dexterously; at the same
time telling me to bring as many young ladies as I chose, especially Miss----, for he was sure
she had a turn for science. He was unfortunate in his aspirations, and remained a bachelor
to the end of his life.

       *     *     *     *     *

It was the custom in Edinburgh, especially among the clergy, to dine between the morning and
evening service on Sundays, and to sup at nine or ten o'clock. In no family were these suppers
more agreeable or cheerful than in that of Sir Henry Moncreiff Wellwood, minister of the West
Kirk. There were always a few of the friends of Sir Henry and Lady Moncreiff present, and we
were invited occasionally. There was a substantial hot supper of roasted fowls, game, or lamb,
and afterwards a lively, animated conversation on a variety of subjects, without a shade of
austerity, though Sir Henry was esteemed an orthodox preacher.

There was an idiot in Edinburgh, the son of a respectable family, who had a remarkable memory.
He never failed to go to the Kirk on Sunday, and on returning home could repeat the sermon
word for word, saying, Here the minister coughed, Here he stopped to blow his nose. During
the tour we made in the Highlands we met with another idiot who knew the Bible so perfectly
that if you asked him where such a verse was to be found, he could tell without hesitation,
and repeat the chapter. The common people in Scotland at that time had a kind of serious compassion
for these harmless idiots, because "the hand of God was upon them."

The wise as well as the foolish are sometimes endowed with a powerful memory. Dr. Gregory,
an eminent Edinburgh physician, one of the cleverest and most agreeable men I ever met with,
was a remarkable instance of this. He wrote and spoke Latin fluently, and Somerville, who was
a good Latinist, met with a Latin quotation in some book he was reading, but not knowing from
whence it was taken, asked his friend Dr. Gregory. "It is forty years since I read that author,"
said Dr. Gregory, "but I think you will find the passage in the middle of such a page." Somerville
went for the book, and at the place mentioned there it was.

       *     *     *     *     *

I had the grief to lose my dear father at this time. He had served sixty-seven years in the
British Navy, and must have been twice on the North American station, for he was present at
the taking of Quebec by General Wolfe, in 1759, and afterwards during the War of Independence.
After the battle of Camperdown he was made a Colonel of Marines, and died, in 1813, Vice-Admiral
of the Red.

       *     *     *     *     *

Geology, which has now been so far advanced as a science, was still in its infancy. Professor
Playfair and Mr. Hutton had written on the subject; and in my gay young days, when Lady Helen
Hall was occasionally my chaperone, I had heard that Sir James Hall had taken up the subject,
but I did not care about it; I am certain that at that time I had never heard the word Geology.
I think it was now, on going with Somerville to see the Edinburgh Museum, that I recognised
the fossil plants I had seen in the coal limestone on the sands at the Links of Burntisland.
Ultimately Geology became a favourite pursuit of ours, but then minerals were the objects of
our joint study. Mineralogy had been much cultivated on the Continent by this time, especially
in Germany. It had been established as a science by Werner, who was educated at an institution
near the silver mines of Friburg, where he afterwards lectured on the properties of crystals,
and had many pupils. In one of our tours on the Continent, Somerville and I went to see these
silver mines and bought some specimens for our cabinet. The French took up the subject with
great zeal, and the Abbé Haüy's work became a standard book on the science. Cabinets of minerals
had been established in the principal cities of Great Britain, professors were appointed in
the Universities, and collections of minerals were not uncommon in private houses. While quite
a girl, I went with my parents to visit the Fergusons of Raith, near Kirkcaldy, and there I
saw a magnificent collection of minerals, made by their son while abroad. It contained gems
of great value and crystallized specimens of precious and other metals, which surprised and
interested me; but seeing that such valuable things could never be obtained by me, I thought
no more about them. In those early days I had every difficulty to contend with; now, through
the kindness and liberal opinions of my husband, I had every encouragement. He took up the
study of mineralogy with zeal, and I heartily joined with him. We made the acquaintance of
Professor Jameson, a pupil of Werner's, whose work on mineralogy was of great use to us. We
began to form a cabinet of minerals, which, although small, were good of their kind. We were
criticized for extravagance, and, no doubt I had the lion's share of blame; but more of minerals
hereafter.

       *     *     *     *     *

Abbotsford is only twelve miles distant from Jedburgh, and my father-in-law, Dr. Somerville,
and Sir Walter Scott had been intimate friends for many years, indeed through life. The house
at Abbotsford was at first a mere cottage, on the banks of the Tweed; my brother-in-law, Samuel,
had a villa adjacent to it, and John, Lord Somerville, had a house and property on the opposite
bank of the river, to which he came every spring for salmon fishing. He was a handsome, agreeable
man, had been educated in England, and as he thought he should never live in Scotland, he sold
the family estate of Drum, within five miles of Edinburgh, which he afterwards regretted, and
bought the property on the Tweed he then inhabited.

There was great intimacy between the three families, and the society was often enlivened by
Adam Ferguson and Willie Clerk, whom we had met with at Raith. I shall never forget the charm
of this little society, especially the supper-parties at Abbotsford, when Scott was in the
highest glee, telling amusing tales, ancient legends, ghost and witch stories. Then Adam Ferguson
would sing the "Laird of Cockpen," and other comic songs, and Willie Clerk amused us with his
dry wit. When it was time to go away all rose, and, standing hand-in-hand round the table,
Scott taking the lead, we sang in full chorus,

    Weel may we a' be,
    Ill may we never see;
    Health to the king
    And the gude companie.

At that time no one knew who was the author of the Waverley Novels. There was much speculation
and curiosity on the subject. My son's tutor was the original of Dominie Sampson in "Guy Mannering."
The "Memorie of the Somervilles" was edited by Walter Scott, from an ancient and very quaint
manuscript found in the archives of the family, and from this he takes passages which he could
not have found elsewhere. Although the work was printed it was never published, but copies
were distributed to the different members of the family. One was of course given to my husband.

The Burning of the Water, so well described by Walter Scott in "Redgauntlet," we often witnessed.
The illumination of the banks of the river, the activity of the men striking the salmon with
the "leisters," and the shouting of the people when a fish was struck, was an animated, and
picturesque, but cruel scene.

Sophia Scott, afterwards married to Mr. Lockhart, editor of the "Quarterly Review," was the
only one of Sir Walter's family who had talent. She was not pretty, but remarkably engaging
and agreeable, and possessed her father's joyous disposition as well as his memory and fondness
for ancient Border legends and poetry. Like him, she was thoroughly alive to peculiarities
of character, and laughed at them good-naturedly. She was not a musician, had little voice,
but she sang Scotch songs and translations from the Gaelic with, or without, harp accompaniment;
the serious songs with so much expression, and the merry ones with so much spirit, that she
charmed everybody. The death of her brothers and of her father, to whom she was devotedly attached,
cast a shade over the latter part of her life. Mr. Lockhart was clever and an able writer,
but he was too sarcastic to be quite agreeable; however, we were always on the most friendly
terms. He was of a Lanarkshire family and distantly related to Somerville. After the death
of his wife and sons, Lockhart fell into bad health and lost much of his asperity.

Scott was ordered to go abroad for health and relaxation. Somerville and I happened to be at
the seaport where he embarked, and we went to take leave of him. He kissed me, and said, "Farewell,
my dear; I am going to die abroad like other British novelists." Happy would it have been if
God had so willed it,[7] for he returned completely broken down, and his hopes blighted. In
a few years his only remaining descendant was a grand-daughter, the only surviving child of
Mrs. Lockhart, Charlotte who married Mr. James Hope, and soon died, leaving an only daughter,
now the last descendant of Sir Walter Scott. Thus the "Merry, merry days that I have seen,"
ended very sadly.

       *     *     *     *     *

When at Jedburgh, I never failed to visit James Veitch, who was Laird of Inchbonny, a small
property beautifully situated in the valley of the Jed, at a short distance from the manse.
He was a plough-wright, a hard-working man, but of rare genius, who taught himself mathematics
and astronomy in the evenings with wonderful success, for he knew the motions of the planets,
calculated eclipses and occultations, was versed in various scientific subjects, and made excellent
telescopes, of which I bought a very small one; it was the only one I ever possessed. Veitch
was handsome, with a singularly fine bald forehead and piercing eyes, that quite looked through
one. He was perfectly aware of his talents, shrewd, and sarcastic. His fame had spread, and
he had many visits, of which he was impatient, as it wasted his time. He complained especially
of those from ladies not much skilled in science, saying, "What should they do but ask silly
questions, when they spend their lives in doing naething but spatting muslin?" Veitch was strictly
religious and conscientious, observing the Sabbath day with great solemnity; and I had the
impression that he was stern to his wife, who seemed to be a person of intelligence, for I
remember seeing her come from the washing-tub to point out the planet Venus while it was still
daylight.

The return of Halley's comet, in 1835, exactly at the computed time, was a great astronomical
event, as it was the first comet of long period clearly proved to belong to our system. I was
asked by Mr. John Murray to write an article on the subject for the "Quarterly Review." After
it was published, I received a letter from James Veitch, reproaching me for having mentioned
that a peasant in Hungary was the first to see Halley's comet, and for having omitted to say
that, "a peasant at Inchbonny was the first to see the comet of 1811, the greatest that had
appeared for a century." I regretted, on receiving this letter, that I either had not known,
or had forgotten the circumstance. Veitch has been long dead, but I avail myself of this opportunity
of making the amende honorable to a man of great mental power and acquirements who had struggled
through difficulties, unaided, as I have done myself.

    LETTER FROM JAMES VEITCH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    INCHBONNY, 12th October, 1836.

    DEAR MADAM,

    I saw in the Quarterly review for December 1885 page 216 that the
    comet 1682 was discovered by a Peasent, George Palitzch residing in
    the neighbourhood of Dresden on the 25th of December 1758 with a
    small Telescope. But no mention is made of the Peasent at Inchbonny
    who first discovered the beautiful comet 1811. You will remember
    when Dr. Wollaston was at Inchbonny I put a difficult question to
    him that I could not solve about the focal distance of optic glasses
    when the Dr. got into a passion and said: Had he problems in his
    pocket ready to pull out in every occasion? and with an angry look
    at me said, You pretend to be the first that discovered the comet
    altho' it has been looked for by men of science for some time back.
    Now I never heard of such a thing and you will perhaps know
    something about it as the Dr. would not be mistaken. After we got
    acquainted, the Dr. was a warm friend of mine and I have often
    regretted that I had not improved the opportunity I had when he was
    here on many things he was master off. What ever others had known or
    expected I knew nothing about, But I know this, that on the 27th of
    August 1811 I first saw it in the NNW. part of the Heavens nigh the
    star marked 26 on the shoulder of the little Lion and continued
    tracing its path among the fixed stars untill it disappeared and it
    was generally admitted that I had discovered it four days before any
    other person in Britain. However Mr. Thomas Dick on the Diffusion of
    Knowledge page 101 and 102 has made the following observation 'The
    splendid comet which appeared in our hemisphere in 1811 was first
    discovered in this country by a sawer. The name of this Gentleman is
    Mr. Veitch and I believe he resides in the neighbourhood of Kelso
    who with a Reflecting telescope of his own construction and from his
    sawpit as an observatory, descried that celestial visitant before it
    had been noticed by any other astronomer in North Britain.' A
    strange story--a sawer and a gentleman; and what is stranger still
    Mr. Baily would not have any place but the sawpit for his
    observatory on the 15th May last. I am sorry to say with all the
    improvement and learning that we can boast of in the present day
    Halley's comet the predictions have not been fulfilled, either with
    respect to time or place. Thus on the 10 October, at 50 minutes past
    5 in the evening the Right ascension of the comet was 163° 37', with
    63° 38' of north declination but by the nautical almanac for the 10
    October its right ascension ought to have been 225° 2' 6, and its
    declination 29° 33'. Hence the difference is no less than 61° in
    Right ascension and 34° in declination. When you have time, write
    me.

                           Dear Madam, I remain,
                                       Yours sincerely,
                                                 JAMES VEITCH.

Sir David Brewster was many years younger than James Veitch; in his early years he assisted
his father in teaching the parish-school at Jedburgh, and in the evenings he went to Inchbonny
to study astronomy with James Veitch, who always called him Davie. They were as much puzzled
about the meaning of the word parallax as I had been with regard to the word algebra, and only
learnt what it meant when Brewster went to study for the kirk in Edinburgh. They were both
very devout; nevertheless, Brewster soon gave up the kirk for science, and he devoted himself
especially to optics, in which he made so many discoveries. Sir David was of ordinary height,
with fair or sandy-coloured hair and blue eyes. He was by no means good-looking, yet with a
very pleasant, amiable expression; in conversation he was cheerful and agreeable when quite
at ease, but of a timid, nervous, and irritable temperament, often at war with his fellow-philosophers
upon disputed subjects, and extremely jealous upon priority of discovery. I was much indebted
to Sir David, for he reviewed my book on the "Connexion of the Physical Sciences," in the April
number of the "Edinburgh Review" for 1834, and the "Physical Geography" in the April number
of the "North British Review," both favourably.

    [My father was appointed, in 1816, a member of the Army Medical
    Board, and it became necessary for him to reside in London. He and
    my mother accordingly wished farewell to Scotland, and proceeded to
    take up their residence in Hanover Square. My mother preserved the
    following recollections of this journey:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

On our way we stopped a day at Birmingham, on purpose to see Watt and Boulton's manufactory
of steam engines at Soho. Mr. Boulton showed us everything. The engines, some in action, although
beautifully smooth, showed a power that was almost fearful. Since these early forms of the
steam engine I have lived to see this all but omnipotent instrument change the locomotion of
the whole civilized world by sea and by land.

Soon after our arrival in London we became acquainted with the illustrious family of the Herschels,
through the kindness of our friend Professor Wallace, for it was by his arrangement that we
spent a day with Sir William and Lady Herschel, at Slough. Nothing could exceed the kindness
of Sir William. He made us examine his celebrated telescopes, and explained their mechanism;
and he showed us the manuscripts which recorded the numerous astronomical discoveries he had
made. They were all arranged in the most perfect order, as was also his musical library, for
that great genius was an excellent musician. Unfortunately, his sister, Miss Caroline Herschel,
who shared in the talents of the family, was abroad, but his son, afterwards Sir John, my dear
friend for many years, was at home, quite a youth. It would be difficult to name a branch of
the physical sciences which he has not enriched by important discoveries. He has ever been
a dear and valued friend to me, whose advice and criticism I gratefully acknowledge.

       *     *     *     *     *

I took lessons twice a week from Mr. Glover, who painted landscapes very prettily, and I liked
him on account of his kindness to animals, especially birds, which he tamed so that they flew
before him when he walked, or else sat on the trees, and returned to him when he whistled.
I regret now that I ever resumed my habit of painting in oil; water-colours are much better
suited to an amateur, but as I had never seen any that were good, I was not aware of their beauty.

I also took lessons in mineralogy from Mrs. Lowry, a Jewess, the wife of an eminent line engraver,
who had a large collection of minerals, and in the evening Somerville and I amused ourselves
with our own, which were not numerous.

Our house in Hanover Square was within a walking distance of many of our friends, and of the
Royal Institution in Albemarle Street, where I attended the lectures, and Somerville frequently
went with me. The discoveries of Sir Humphry Davy made this a memorable epoch in the annals
of chemical science. At this time there was much talk about the celebrated Count Rumford's
steam kitchen, by which food was to be cooked at a very small expense of fuel. It was adopted
by several people, and among others by Naldi, the opera singer, who invited some friends to
dine the first day it was to be used. Before dinner they all went to see the new invention,
but while Naldi was explaining its structure, it exploded and killed him on the spot. By this
sad accident his daughter, a pretty girl and a good singer, was left destitute. A numerously-attended
concert was given for her benefit, at which Somerville and I were present. She was soon after
engaged to sing in Paris, but ultimately married the Comte de Sparre, a French gentleman, and
left the stage.

When MM. Arago and Biot came to England to continue the French arc of the meridian through
Great Britain, they were warmly received by the scientific men in London, and we were always
invited to meet them by those whom we knew. They had been told of my turn for science, and
that I had read the works of La Place. Biot expressed his surprise at my youth.

       *     *     *     *     *

One summer Somerville proposed to make a tour in Switzerland, so we set off, and on arriving
at Chantilly we were told that we might see the château upon giving our cards to the doorkeeper.
On reading our name, Mademoiselle de Rohan came to meet us, saying that she had been at school
in England with a sister of Lord Somerville's, and was glad to see any of the family. She presented
us to the Prince de Condé, a fine-looking old man, who received us very courteously, and sent
the lord-in-waiting to show us the grounds, and especially the stables, the only part of the
castle left in its regal magnificence after the Revolution. The Prince and the gentleman who
accompanied us wore a gaudy uniform like a livery, which we were told was the Chantilly uniform,
and that at each palace belonging to the Prince there was a different uniform worn by him and
his court.

At Paris we were received with the kindest hospitality by M. and Mme. Arago. I liked her much,
she was so gentle and ladylike; he was tall and good-looking, with an animated countenance
and black eyes. His character was noble, generous, and singularly energetic; his manners lively
and even gay. He was a man of very general information, and, from his excitable temperament,
he entered as ardently into the politics and passing events of the time as into science, in
which few had more extensive knowledge. On this account I thought his conversation more brilliant
than that of any of the French savants with whom I was acquainted. They were living at the
Observatory, and M. Arago showed me all the instruments of that magnificent establishment in
the minutest detail, which was highly interesting at the time, and proved more useful to me
than I was aware of. M. Arago made us acquainted with the Marquis de la Place, and the Marquise,
who was quite an élégante. The Marquis was not tall, but thin, upright, and rather formal.
He was distinguished in his manners, and I thought there was a little of the courtier in them,
perhaps from having been so much at the court of the Emperor Napoleon, who had the highest
regard for him. Though incomparably superior to Arago in mathematics and astronomical science,
he was inferior to him in general acquirements, so that his conversation was less varied and
popular. We were invited to go early and spend a day with them at Arcueil, where they had a
country house. M. Arago had told M. de la Place that I had read the "Mécanique Céleste," so
we had a great deal of conversation about astronomy and the calculus, and he gave me a copy
of his "Système du Monde," with his inscription, which pleased me exceedingly. I spoke French
very badly, but I was less at a loss on scientific subjects, because almost all my books on
science were in French. The party at dinner consisted of MM. Biot, Arago, Bouvard, and Poisson.
I sat next M. de la Place, who was exceedingly kind and attentive. In such an assemblage of
philosophers I expected a very grave and learned conversation. But not at all! Everyone talked
in a gay, animated, and loud key, especially M. Poisson, who had all the vivacity of a Frenchman.
Madame Biot, from whom we received the greatest attention, made a party on purpose, as she
said, to show us, "les personnes distinguées." Madame Biot was a well-educated woman, and had
made a translation from the German of a work, which was published under the name of her husband.
The dinner was very good, and Madame Biot was at great pains in placing every one. Those present
were Monsieur and Madame Arago, Monsieur and Madame Poisson, who had only been married the
day before, and Baron Humboldt. The conversation was lively and entertaining.

The consulate and empire of the first Napoleon was the most brilliant period of physical astronomy
in France. La Grange, who proved the stability of the solar system, Laplace, Biot, Arago, Bouvard,
and afterwards Poinsot, formed a perfect constellation of undying names; yet the French had
been for many years inferior to the English in practical astronomy. The observations made at
Greenwich by Bradley, Maskelyne, and Pond, have been so admirably continued under the direction
of the present astronomer-royal, Mr. Airy, the first practical astronomer in Europe, that they
have furnished data for calculating the astronomical tables both in France and England.

The theatre was at this time very brilliant in Paris. We saw Talma, who was considered to be
the first tragedian of the age in the character of Tancrède. I admired the skill with which
he overcame the disagreeable effect which the rhyme of the French tragedies has always had
on me. Notwithstanding his personal advantages, I thought him a great artist, though inferior
to John Kemble. I am afraid my admiration of Shakespeare, my want of sympathy with the artificial
style of French tragedy, and perhaps my youthful remembrance of our great tragedian Mrs. Siddons,
made me unjust to Mademoiselle Duchênois, who, although ugly, was certainly an excellent actress
and a favourite of the public. I was so fond of the theatre that I enjoyed comedy quite as
much as tragedy, and was delighted with Mademoiselle Mars, whom we saw in Tartuffe. Some years
later I saw her again, when, although an old woman, she still appeared handsome and young upon
the stage, and was as graceful and lively as ever.

Soon after our dinner party at Arcueil, we went to pay a morning visit to Madame de la Place.
It was late in the day; but she received us in bed elegantly dressed. I think the curtains
were of muslin with some gold ornaments, and the coverlet was of rich silk and gold. It was
the first time that I had ever seen a lady receive in that manner. Madame Laplace was lively
and agreeable; I liked her very much.

We spent a most entertaining day with M. and Madame Cuvier at the Jardin des Plantes, and saw
the Museum, and everything in that celebrated establishment. On returning to the house, we
found several people had come to spend the evening, and the conversation was carried on with
a good deal of spirit; the Countess Albrizzi, a Venetian lady, of high acquirements, joined
in it with considerable talent and animation. Cuvier had a very remarkable countenance, not
handsome, but agreeable, and his manner was pleasing and modest, and his conversation very
interesting. Madame de Staël having died lately, was much discussed. She was much praised for
her good-nature, and for the brilliancy of her conversation. They agreed, that the energy of
her character, not old age, had worn her out. Cuvier said, the force of her imagination misled
her judgment, and made her see things in a light different from all the world. As a proof of
this, he mentioned that she makes Corinne lean on a marble lion which is on a tomb in St. Peter's,
at Rome, more than twenty feet high. Education was very much discussed. Cuvier said, that when
he was sent to inspect the schools at Bordeaux and Marseilles, he found very few of the scholars
who could perform a simple calculation in arithmetic; as to science, history, or literature,
they were unknown, and the names of the most celebrated French philosophers, famed in other
countries, were utterly unknown to those who lived in the provinces. M. Biot had written home,
that he had found in Aberdeen not one alone, but many, who perfectly understood the object
of his journey, and were competent to converse with him on the subject. Cuvier said such a
circumstance constituted one of the striking differences between France and England; for in
France science was highly cultivated, but confined to the capital. It was at M. Cuvier's that
I first met Mr. Pentland, who made a series of physical and geological observations on the
Andes of Peru. I was residing in Italy when I published my "Physical Geography" and Mr. Pentland[8]
kindly undertook to carry the book through the press for me. From that time he has been a steady
friend, ever ready to get me information, books, or anything I wanted. We became acquainted
also with M. Gay-Lussac, who lived in the Jardin des Plantes, and with Baron Larrey, who had
been at the head of the medical department of the army in Egypt under the first Napoleon.

       *     *     *     *     *

At Paris I equipped myself in proper dresses, and we proceeded by Fontainebleau to Geneva,
where we found Dr. Marcet, with whom my husband had already been acquainted in London. I, for
the first time, met Mrs. Marcet, with whom I have ever lived on terms of affectionate friendship.
So many books have now been published for young people, that no one at this time can duly estimate
the importance of Mrs. Marcet's scientific works. To them is partly owing that higher intellectual
education now beginning to prevail among the better classes in Britain. They produced a great
sensation, and went through many editions. Her "Conversations on Chemistry," first opened out
to Faraday's mind that field of science in which he became so illustrious, and at the height
of his fame he always mentioned Mrs. Marcet with deep reverence.

Through these kind friends we became acquainted with Professors De Candolle, Prevost, and De
la Rive. Other distinguished men were also presented to us; among these was Mr. Sismondi, author
of the "History of the Italian Republics." Madame Sismondi was a Miss Allen, of a family with
whom we were very intimate.

    [Some time after her return to England, my mother, desirous of
    continuing the study of botany, in which she had already attained
    considerable proficiency, wrote to M. De Candolle, asking his
    advice, and he sent her the following reply:--]

    LETTER FROM M. DE CANDOLLE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    LONDRES, 5 Juin, 1819.

    MADAME,

    Vous avez passé les premières difficultés de l'étude des plantes et
    vous me faites l'honneur de me consulter sur les moyens d'aller en
    avant; connaissant votre goût et votre talent pour les sciences les
    plus relevées je ne craindrai point de vous engager à sortir de la
    Botanique élémentaire et à vous élever aux considérations et aux
    études qui en font une science susceptible d'idées générales,
    d'applications aux choses utiles et de liaison avec les autres
    branches des connaissances humaines. Pour cela il faut étudier non
    plus seulement la nomenclature et l'échafaudage artificiel qui la
    soutient, mais les rapports des plantes entre elles et avec les
    élémens extérieurs, ou en d'autres termes, la classification
    naturelle et la Physiologie.

    Pour l'un et l'autre de ces branches de la science il est nécessaire
    en premier lieu de se familiariser avec la structure des plantes
    considérée dans leur caractère exacte. Vous trouverez un précis
    abrégé de ces caractères dans le 1^er vol. de la Flore française;
    vous la trouverez plus développé et accompagné de planches dans les
    Elémens de Botanique de Michel. Quant à la structure du fruit qui
    est un des points les plus difficiles et les plus importans, vous
    allez avoir un bon ouvrage traduit et augmenté par un de vos jeunes
    et habiles compatriotes, Mr. Lindley--c'est l'analyse du fruit de M.
    Richard. La traduction vaudra mieux que l'original. Outre ces
    lectures, ce qui vous apprendra surtout la structure des plantes,
    c'est de les analyser et de les décrire vous-même d'après les
    termes techniques; ce travail deviendrait pénible et inutile à faire
    sur un grand nombre de plantes, et il vaut mieux ne le faire que sur
    un très petit nombre d'espèces choisies dans des classes très
    distinctes. Quelques descriptions faites aussi complètes qu'il vous
    sera possible vous apprendra plus que tous les livres.

    Dès que vous connaîtrez bien les organes et concurremment avec cette
    étude vous devrez chercher à prendre une idée de la classification
    naturelle. Je crains de vous paraître présomptueux en vous engageant
    à lire d'abord sous ce point de vue ma Théorie élémentaire. Après
    ces études ou à peu près en même temps pour profiter de la saison,
    vous ferez bien de rapporter aux ordres naturels toutes les plantes
    que vous aurez recueillies. La lecture des caractères des familles
    faites la plante à la main et l'acte de ranger vos plantes en
    familles vous feront connaître par théorie et par pratique ces
    groupes naturels. Je vous engage dans cette étude, surtout en le
    commencement, à ne donner que peu d'attention au système général qui
    lie les familles, mais beaucoup à la connaissance de la physionomie
    qui est propre à chacune d'elles. Sous ce point de vue vous pourrez
    trouver quelque intérêt à lire--1° les Tableaux de la Nature de M.
    de Humboldt; 2° mon essai sur les propriétés des plantes comparées
    avec leurs formes extérieures; 3° les remarques sur la géographie
    botanique de la Nouvelle Hollande et de l'Afrique, insérés par M.
    Robt. Brown à la fin du voyage de Finders et de l'expédition au
    Congo.

    Quant à l'étude de la Physiologie ou de la connaissance des
    végétaux considérés comme êtres vivans, je vous engage à lire les
    ouvrages dans l'ordre suivant: Philibert, Elémens de Bot. et de
    Phys., 3 vols.; la 2^de partie des principes élémentaires de la Bot.
    de la Flore française. Vous trouverez la partie anatomique dans
    l'ouvrage de Mirbel; la partie chimique dans les recherches
    chimiques sur la Veget. de T. de Saussure; la partie statique dans
    la statique des végétaux de Hales, &c. &c. Mais je vous engage
    surtout à voir par vous-même les plantes à tous leurs ages, à suivre
    leur végétation, à les décrire en détail, en un mot à vivre avec
    elles plus qu'avec les livres.

    Je désire, madame, que ces conseils puissent vous engager à suivre
    l'étude des plantes sous cette direction qui je crois en relève
    beaucoup l'importance et l'intérêt. Je m'estimerai heureux si en
    vous l'indiquant je puis concourir à vos succès futures et à vous
    initier dans une étude que j'ai toujours regardé comme une de celles
    qui peut le plus contribuer au bonheur journalier.

    Je vous prie d'agréer mes hommages empressés.

                                                 DE CANDOLLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

We had made the ordinary short tour through Switzerland, and had arrived at Lausanne on our
way home, when I was taken ill with a severe fever which detained us there for many weeks.
I shall never forget the kindness I received from two Miss Barclays, Quaker ladies, and a Miss
Fotheringham, who, on hearing of my illness, came and sat up alternate nights with me, as if
I had been their sister.

The winter was now fast approaching, and Somerville thought that in my weak state a warm climate
was necessary; so we arranged with our friends, the Miss Barclays, to pass the Simplon together.
We parted company at Milan, but we renewed our friendship in London.

We went to Monza, and saw the iron crown; and there I found the Magnolia grandiflora, which
hitherto I had only known as a greenhouse plant, rising almost into a forest tree.

At Venice we renewed our acquaintance with the Countess Albrizzi, who received every evening.
It was at these receptions that we saw Lord Byron, but he would not make the acquaintance of
any English people at that time. When he came into the room I did not perceive his lameness,
and thought him strikingly like my brother Henry, who was remarkably handsome. I said to Somerville,
"Is Lord Byron like anyone you know?" "Your brother Henry, decidedly." Lord Broughton, then
Sir John Cam Hobhouse, was also present.

At Florence, I was presented to the Countess of Albany, widow of Prince Charles Edward Stuart
the Pretender. She was then supposed to be married to Alfieri the poet, and had a kind of state
reception every evening. I did not like her, and never went again. Her manner was proud and
insolent. "So you don't speak Italian; you must have had a very bad education, for Miss Clephane
Maclane there [who was close by] speaks both French and Italian perfectly." So saying, she
turned away, and never addressed another word to me. That evening I recognised in Countess
Moretti my old friend Agnes Bonar. Moretti was of good family; but, having been banished from
home for political opinions, he taught the guitar in London for bread, and an attachment was
formed between him and his pupil. After the murder of her parents, they were both persecuted
with the most unrelenting cruelty by her brother. They escaped to Milan where they were married.

I was still a young woman; but I thought myself too old to learn to speak a foreign language,
consequently I did not try. I spoke French badly; and now, after several years' residence in
Italy, although I can carry on a conversation fluently in Italian, I do not speak it well.

    [When my mother first went abroad, she had no fluency in talking
    French, although she was well acquainted with the literature. To
    show how, at every period of her life, she missed no opportunity of
    acquiring information or improvement, I may mention that many years
    after, when we were spending a summer in Siena, where the language
    is spoken with great purity and elegance, she engaged a lady to
    converse in Italian with her for a couple of hours daily. By this
    means she very soon became perfectly familiar with the language,
    and could keep up conversation in Italian without difficulty. She
    never cared to write in any language but English. Her style has been
    reckoned particularly clear and good, and she was complimented on it
    by various competent judges, although she herself was always
    diffident about her writings, saying she was only a self-taught,
    uneducated Scotchwoman, and feared to use Scotch idioms
    inadvertently. In speaking she had a very decided but pleasant
    Scotch accent, and when aroused and excited, would often
    unconsciously use not only native idioms, but quaint old Scotch
    words. Her voice was soft and low, and her manner earnest.]

       *     *     *     *     *

On our way to Rome, where we spent the winter of 1817, it was startling to see the fine church
of Santa Maria degli Angeli, below Assisi, cut in two; half of the church and half of the dome
above it were still entire; the rest had been thrown down by the earthquake which had destroyed
the neighbouring town of Foligno, and committed such ravages in this part of Umbria.

At that time I might have been pardoned if I had described St Peter's, the Vatican, and the
innumerable treasures of art and antiquity at Rome; but now that they are so well known it
would be ridiculous and superfluous. Here I gained a little more knowledge about pictures;
but I preferred sculpture, partly from the noble specimens of Greek art I saw in Paris and
Rome, and partly because I was such an enthusiast about the language and everything belonging
to ancient Greece. During this journey I was highly gratified, for we made the acquaintance
of Thorwaldsen and Canova. Canova was gentle and amiable, with a beautiful countenance, and
was an artist of great reputation. Thorwaldsen had a noble and striking appearance, and had
more power and originality than Canova. His bas-reliefs were greatly admired. I saw the one
he made of Night in the house of an English lady, who had a talent for modelling, and was said
to be attached to him. We were presented to Pope Pius the Seventh; a handsome, gentlemanly,
and amiable old man. He received us in a summer-house in the garden of the Vatican. He was
sitting on a sofa, and made me sit beside him. His manners were simple and very gracious; he
spoke freely of what he had suffered in France. He said, "God forbid that he should bear ill-will
to any one; but the journey and the cold were trying to an old man, and he was glad to return
to a warm climate and to his own country." When we took leave, he said to me, "Though a Protestant,
you will be none the worse for an old man's blessing." Pius the Seventh was loved and respected;
the people knelt to him as he passed. Many years afterwards we were presented to Gregory the
Sixteenth, a very common-looking man, forming a great contrast to Pius the Seventh.

I heard more good music during this first visit to Rome than I ever did after; for besides
that usual in St. Peter's, there was an Academia every week, where Marcello's Psalms were sung
in concert by a number of male voices, besides other concerts, private and public. We did not
make the acquaintance of any of the Roman families at this time; but we saw Pauline Borghese,
sister of the Emperor Napoleon, so celebrated for her beauty, walking on the Pincio every afternoon.
Our great geologist, Sir Roderick Murchison, with his wife, were among the English residents
at Rome. At that time he hardly knew one stone from another. He had been an officer in the
Dragoons, an excellent horseman, and a keen fox-hunter. Lady Murchison,--an amiable and accomplished
woman, with solid acquirements which few ladies at that time possessed--had taken to the study
of geology; and soon after her husband began that career which has rendered him the first geologist
of our country. It was then that a friendship began between them and us, which will only end
with life. Mrs. Fairfax, of Gilling Castle, and her two handsome daughters were also at Rome.
She was my namesake--Mary Fairfax--and my valued friend till her death. Now, alas! many of
these friends are gone.

There were such troops of brigands in the Papal States, that it was considered unsafe to go
outside the gates of Rome. They carried off people to the mountains, and kept them till ransomed;
sometimes even mutilated them, as they do at the present day in the kingdom of Naples. Lucien
Bonaparte made a narrow escape from being carried off from his villa, Villa Ruffinella, near
Frascati. When it could be proved that brigands had committed murder, they were confined in
prisons in the Maremma, at Campo Morto, where fever prevails, and where they were supposed
to die of malaria. I saw Gasperone, the chief of a famous band, in a prison at Civita Vecchia;
he was said to be a relative of Cardinal Antonelli, both coming from the brigand village of
Sonnino, in the Volscian mountains. In going to Naples our friends advised us to take a guard
of soldiers; but these were suspected of being as bad, and in league with the brigands. So
we travelled post without them; and though I foolishly insisted on going round by the ruins
of ancient Capua, which was considered very unsafe, we arrived at Naples without any encounter.
Here we met with the son and daughter of Mr. Smith, of Norwich, a celebrated leader in the
anti-slavery question. This was a bond of interest between his family and me; for when I was
a girl I took the anti-slavery cause so warmly to heart that I would not take sugar in my tea,
or indeed taste anything with sugar in it. I was not singular in this, for my cousins and many
of my acquaintances came to the same resolution. How long we kept it I do not remember. Patty
Smith and I became great friends, and I knew her sisters; but only remember her niece Florence
Nightingale as a very little child. My friend Patty was liberal in her opinions, witty, original,
an excellent horsewoman, and drew cleverly; but from bad health she was peculiar in all her
habits. She was a good judge of art. Her father had a valuable collection of pictures of the
ancient masters; and I learnt much from her with regard to paintings and style in drawing.
We went to see everything in Naples and its environs together, and she accompanied Somerville
and me in an expedition to Pæstum, where we made sketches of the temples. At Naples we bought
a beautiful cork model of the Temple of Neptune, which was placed on our mineral cabinet on
our return to London. A lady who came to pay me a morning visit asked Somerville what it was;
and when he told her, she said, "How dreadful it is to think that all the people who worshipped
in that temple are in eternal misery, because they did not believe in our Saviour." Somerville
asked, "How could they believe in Christ when He was not born till many centuries after?" I
am sure she thought it was all the same.

       *     *     *     *     *

There had been an eruption of Vesuvius just before our arrival at Naples, and it was still
smoking very much; however, we ascended it, and walked round the crater, running and holding
a handkerchief to our nose an we passed through the smoke, when the wind blew it to our side.
The crater was just like an empty funnel, wide at the mouth, and narrowing to a throat. The
lava was hard enough to bear us; but there were numerous fumeroles or red-hot chasms, in it,
which we could look into. Somerville bought a number of crystals from the guides, and went
repeatedly to Portici afterwards to complete our collection of volcanic minerals.

They were excavating busily at Pompeii; at that time, and in one of our many excursions there
Somerville bought from one of the workmen a bronze statuette of Minerva, and a very fine rosso
antico Terminus, which we contrived to smuggle into Naples; and it now forms part of a small
but excellent collection of antiques which I still possess. The excavations at that period
were conducted with little regularity or direction, and the guides were able to carry on a
contraband trade as mentioned. Since the annexation of the Neapolitan provinces to the kingdom
of Italy, the Cavaliere Fiorelli has organized the system of excavations in the most masterly
manner, and has made many interesting discoveries. About one-third of the town has been excavated
since it was discovered till the present day.

In passing through Bologna, we became acquainted with the celebrated Mezzofanti, afterwards
Cardinal. He was a quiet-looking priest; we could not see anything in his countenance that
indicated talent, nor was his conversation remarkable; yet he told us that he understood fifty-two
languages. He left no memoir at his death; nor did he ever trace any connection between these
languages; it was merely an astonishing power, which led to nothing, like that of a young American
I lately heard of, who could play eleven games at chess at the same time, without looking at
any chess-board.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 8: Joseph Barclay Pentland, Consul-General in Bolivia (1836-39), died in London,
July, 1873. He first discovered that Illimani and Sorata (not Chimborazo) were the highest
mountains in America.

When we returned to Hanover Square, I devoted my morning hours, as usual, to domestic affairs;
but now my children occupied a good deal of my time. Although still very young, I thought it
advisable for them to acquire foreign languages; so I engaged a French nursery-maid, that they
might never suffer what I had done from ignorance of modern languages. I besides gave them
instruction in such things as I was capable of teaching, and which were suited to their age.

It was a great amusement to Somerville and myself to arrange the minerals we had collected
during our journey. Our cabinet was now very rich. Some of our specimens we had bought; our
friends had given us duplicates of those they possessed; and George Finlayson, who was with
our troops in Ceylon, and who had devoted all his spare time to the study of the natural productions
of the country, sent us a valuable collection of crystals of sapphire, ruby, oriental topaz,
amethyst, &c., &c. Somerville used to analyze minerals with the blowpipe, which I never did.
One evening, when he was so occupied, I was playing the piano, when suddenly I fainted; he
was very much startled, as neither I nor any of our family had ever done such a thing. When
I recovered, I said it was the smell of garlic that had made me ill. The truth was, the mineral
contained arsenic, and I was poisoned for the time by the fumes.

At this time we formed an acquaintance with Dr. Wollaston, which soon became a lasting friendship.
He was gentlemanly, a cheerful companion, and a philosopher; he was also of agreeable appearance,
having a remarkably fine, intellectual head. He was essentially a chemist, and discovered palladium;
but there were few branches of science with which he was not more or less acquainted. He made
experiments to discover imponderable matter; I believe, with regard to the ethereal medium.
Mr. Brand, of the Royal Institution, enraged him by sending so strong a current of electricity
through a machine he had made to prove electro-magnetic rotation, as to destroy it. His characteristic
was extreme accuracy, which particularly fitted him for giving that precision to the science
of crystallography which it had not hitherto attained. By the invention of the goniometer which
bears his name, he was enabled to measure the angle formed by the faces of a crystal by means
of the reflected images of bright objects seen in them. We bought a goniometer, and Dr. Wollaston,
who often dined with us, taught Somerville and me how to use it, by measuring the angles of
many of our crystals during the evening. I learnt a great deal on a variety of subjects besides
crystallography from Dr. Wollaston, who, at his death, left me a collection of models of the
forms of all the natural crystals then known.

Though still occasionally occupied with the mineral productions of the earth, I became far
more interested in the formation of the earth itself. Geologists had excited public attention,
and had shocked the clergy and the more scrupulous of the laity by proving beyond a doubt that
the formation of the globe extended through enormous periods of time. The contest was even
more keen then than it is at the present time about the various races of prehistoric men. It
lasted very long, too; for after I had published my work on Physical Geography, I was preached
against by name in York Cathedral. Our friend, Dr. Buckland, committed himself by taking the
clerical view in his "Bridgewater Treatise;" but facts are such stubborn things that he was
obliged to join the geologists at last. He and Mrs. Buckland invited Somerville and me to spend
a week with them in Christchurch College, Oxford. Mr. and Mrs. Murchison were their guests
at the same time. Mr. Murchison (now Sir Roderick) was then rising rapidly to the pre-eminence
he now holds as a geologist. We spent every day in seeing some of the numerous objects of interest
in that celebrated university, venerable for its antiquity, historical records, and noble architecture.

Somerville and I used frequently to spend the evening with Captain and Mrs. Kater. Dr. Wollaston,
Dr. Young, and others were generally of the party; sometimes we had music, for Captain and
Mrs. Kater sang very prettily. All kinds of scientific subjects were discussed, experiments
tried and astronomical observations made in a little garden in front of the house. One evening
we had been trying the power of a telescope in separating double stars till about two in the
morning; on our way home we saw a light in Dr. Young's window, and when Somerville rang the
bell, down came the doctor himself in his dressing-gown, and said, "Come in; I have something
curious to show you." Astronomical signs are frequently found on ancient Egyptian monuments,
and were supposed to have been employed by the priests to record dates. Now Dr. Young had received
a papyrus from Egypt, sent to him by Mr. Salt, who had found it in a mummy-case; and that very
evening he had proved it to be a horoscope of the age of the Ptolemies, and had determined
the date from the configuration of the heavens at the time of its construction. Dr. Young had
already made himself famous by the interpretation of hieroglyphic characters on a stone which
had been brought to the British Museum from Rosetta in Egypt. On that stone there is an inscription
in Hieroglyphics, the sacred symbolic language of the early Egyptians; another in the Enchorial
or spoken language of that most ancient people, and a mutilated inscription in Greek. By the
aid of some fragments of papyri Dr. Young discovered that the Enchorial language is alphabetical,
and that nine of its letters correspond with ours; moreover, he discovered such a relation
between the Enchorial and the hieroglyphic inscription that he interpreted the latter and published
his discoveries in the years 1815 and 1816.

M. Champollion, who had been on the same pursuit, examined the fine collection of papyri in
the museum at Turin, and afterwards went to Egypt to pursue his studies on hieroglyphics, to
our knowledge of which he contributed greatly. It is to be regretted that one who had brought
that branch of science to such perfection should have been so ungenerous as to ignore the assistance
he had received from the researches of Dr. Young. When the Royal Institution was first established,
Dr. Young lectured on natural philosophy. He proved the undulatory theory of light by direct
experiment, but as it depended upon the hypothesis of an ethereal medium, it was not received
in England, the more so as it was contrary to Newton's theory. The French savants afterwards
did Young ample justice. The existence of the ethereal medium is now all but proved, since
part of the corona surrounding the moon during a total solar eclipse is polarized--a phenomenon
depending on matter. Young's Lectures, which had been published, were a mine of riches to me.
He was of a Quaker family; but although he left the Society of Friends at an early age, he
retained their formal precision of manner to the last. He was of a kindly disposition, and
his wife and her sisters, with whom I was intimate, were much attached to him. Dr. Young was
an elegant and critical scholar at a very early age; he was an astronomer, a mathematician,
and there were few branches of science in which he was not versed. When young, his Quaker habits
did not prevent him from taking lessons in music and dancing. I have heard him accompany his
sister-in-law with the flute, while she played the piano. When not more than sixteen years
of age he was so remarkable for steadiness and acquirements that he was engaged more as a companion
than tutor to young Hudson Gurney, who was nearly of his own age. One spring morning Young
came to breakfast in a bright green coat, and said in explanation of his somewhat eccentric
costume for one who had been a Quaker, that it was suitable to the season. One day, on returning
from their ride Gurney, leaped his horse over the stable-yard gate. Young, trying to do the
same, was thrown; he got up, mounted, and made a second attempt with no better success; the
third time he kept his seat, then quietly dismounting, he said, "What one man can do, another may."

       *     *     *     *     *

One bright morning Dr. Wollaston came to pay us a visit in Hanover Square, saying, "I have
discovered seven dark lines crossing the solar spectrum, which I wish to show you;" then, closing
the window-shutters so as to leave only a narrow line of light, he put a small glass prism
into my hand, telling me how to hold it. I saw them distinctly. I was among the first, if not
the very first, to whom he showed these lines, which were the origin of the most wonderful
series of cosmical discoveries, and have proved that many of the substances of our globe are
also constituents of the sun, the stars, and even of the nebulæ. Dr. Wollaston gave me the
little prism, which is doubly valuable, being of glass manufactured at Munich by Fraunhofer,
whose table of dark lines has now become the standard of comparison in that marvellous science,
the work of many illustrious men, brought to perfection by Bunsen and Kirchhoff.

       *     *     *     *     *

Sir William Herschel had discovered that what appeared to be single stars were frequently two
stars in such close approximation that it required a very high telescopic power to see them
separately, and that in many of these one star was revolving in an orbit round the other. Sir
James South established an observatory at Campden Hill, near Kensington, where he and Sir John
Herschel united in observing the double stars and binary systems with the view of affording
further data for improving our knowledge of their movements. In each two observations are requisite,
namely, the distance between the two stars, and the angle of position, that is, the angle which
the meridian, or a parallel to the equator makes with the lines joining the two stars. These
observations were made by adjusting a micrometer to a very powerful telescope, and were data
sufficient for the determination of the orbit of the revolving star, should it be a binary
system. I have given an account of this in the "Connexion of the Physical Sciences," so I shall
only mention here that in one or two of the binary systems the revolving star has been seen
to make more than one revolution, and that the periodical times and the elliptical elements
of a great many other orbits have been calculated, though they are more than 200,000 times
farther from the sun than we are.

After Sir John Herschel was married, we paid him a visit at Slough; fortunately, the sky was
clear, and Sir John had the kindness to show me many nebulæ and clusters of stars which I had
never seen to such advantage as in his 20 ft. telescope. I shall never forget the glorious
appearance of Jupiter as he entered the field of that instrument.

For years the British nation was kept in a state of excitement by the Arctic voyages of our
undaunted seamen in quest of a north-west passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. The
idea was not new, for a direct way to our Eastern possessions had been long desired. On this
occasion the impulse was given by William Scoresby, captain of a whaler, who had sailed on
the east coast of Greenland as high as the 80th parallel of latitude, and for two successive
seasons had found that the sea between Greenland and Spitzbergen was free of ice for 18,000
square miles--a circumstance which had not occurred before in the memory of man. Scoresby was
of rare genius, well versed in science, and of strict probity. When he published this discovery,
the Admiralty, in the year 1818, sent off two expeditions, one under the command of Captains
Franklin and Buchan to the east of Greenland, and another under Captains Ross and Parry to
Baffin's Bay. Such was the beginning of a series of noble adventures, now the province of history.

I had an early passion for everything relating to the sea, and when my father was at home I
never tired asking him questions about his voyages and the dangers to which he had been exposed.
Now, when I knew something of nautical science, I entered with enthusiasm into the spirit of
these Arctic voyages; nor was my husband less interested. We read Scoresby's whaling voyages
with great delight, and we made the acquaintance of all the officers who had been on these
northern expeditions.

Sir Edward Parry, who had brought us minerals and seeds of plants from Melville Island, invited
us to see the ships prepared for his third voyage, and three years' residence in the Arctic
seas. It is impossible to describe how perfectly everything was arranged: experience had taught
them what was necessary for such an expedition. On this occasion I put in practice my lessons
in cookery by making a large quantity of orange marmalade for the voyage. When, after three
years, the ships returned, we were informed that the name of Somerville had been given to an
island so far to the north that it was all but perpetually covered with ice and snow. Notwithstanding
the sameness which naturally prevails in the narratives of these voyages, they are invested
with a romantic interest by the daring bravery displayed, and by the appalling difficulties
overcome. The noble endeavour of Lady Franklin to save her gallant husband, and the solitary
voyage of Sir Leopold McClintock in a small yacht in search of his lost friend, form the touching
and sad termination to a very glorious period of maritime adventure. More than fifty years
after these events I renewed my acquaintance with Lady Franklin. She and her niece came to
see me at Spezia on their way to Dalmatia. She had circumnavigated the globe with her husband
when he was governor in Australia. After his loss she and her niece had gone round the world
a second time, and she assured me that although they went to Japan and China (less known at
that time than they are now), they never experienced any difficulty. Seeing ladies travelling
alone, people were always willing to help them. The French sent a Polar expedition under Captain
Gaimard in the years 1838 and 1839; and the United States of North America took an active part
in Arctic exploration. Whether Dr. Kane's discovery of an open polar ocean will ever be verified
is problematical; at all events, the deplorable fate of Sir John Franklin has put a stop to
the chance of it for the present; yet it is a great geographical question which we should all
like to see decided.

Captain Sabine, of the Artillery (now General Sir Edward Sabine, President of the Royal Society),
was appointed to accompany the first expedition under Captains Ross and Parry on account of
his high scientific acquirements. The observations made during the series of Arctic voyages
on the magnetism of the earth, combined with an enormous mass of observations made by numerous
observers in all parts of the globe by sea and by land, have enabled Sir Edward Sabine, after
a labour of nearly fifty years, to complete his marvellous system of terrestrial magnetism
in both hemispheres. During that long period a friendship has lasted between Sir Edward and
me. He has uniformly sent me copies of all his works; to them I chiefly owe what I know on
the subject, and quite recently I have received his latest and most important publication.
Sir Edward married a lady of talent and scientific acquirements. She translated "Cosmos" from
the German, and assisted and calculated for her husband in his laborious work.

I do not remember the exact period, but I think it was subsequent to the Arctic voyages, that
the theory was discovered of those tropical hurricanes which cause such devastation by sea
and land. Observations are now made on barometric pressure, and warnings are sent to our principal
seaports by telegraph, as well as along both sides of the Channel; but notwithstanding numerous
disastrous shipwrecks occur every winter on our dangerous coasts. They were far more numerous
in my younger days. Life-boats were not then invented; now they are stationed on almost every
coast of Great Britain, and on many continental shores. The readiness with which they are manned,
and the formidable dangers encountered to save life, show the gallant, noble character of the
sailor.

We went frequently to see Mr. Babbage while he was making his Calculating-machines. He had
a transcendant intellect, unconquerable perseverance, and extensive knowledge on many subjects,
besides being a first-rate mathematician. I always found him most amiable and patient in explaining
the structure and use of the engines. The first he made could only perform arithmetical operations.
Not satisfied with that, Mr. Babbage constructed an analytical engine, which could be so arranged
as to perform all kinds of mathematical calculations, and print each result.

Many of our friends had very decided and various religious opinions, but my husband and I never
entered into controversy; we had too high a regard for liberty of conscience to interfere with
any one's opinions, so we have lived on terms of sincere friendship and love with people who
differed essentially from us in religious views, and in all the books which I have written
I have confined myself strictly and entirely to scientific subjects, although my religious
opinions are very decided.

Timidity of character, probably owing to early education, had a great influence on my daily
life; for I did not assume my place in society in my younger days; and in argument I was instantly
silenced, although I often knew, and could have proved, that I was in the right. The only thing
in which I was determined and inflexible was in the prosecution of my studies. They were perpetually
interrupted, but always resumed at the first opportunity. No analysis is so difficult as that
of one's own mind, but I do not think I err much in saying that perseverance is a characteristic
of mine.

       *     *     *     *     *

Somerville and I were very happy when we lived in Hanover Square. We were always engaged in
some pursuit, and had good society. General society was at that time brilliant for wit and
talent. The Rev. Sidney Smith, Rogers, Thomas Moore, Campbell, the Hon. William Spencer, Macaulay,
Sir James Mackintosh, Lord Melbourne, &c., &c., all made the dinner-parties very agreeable.
The men sat longer at table than they do now, and, except in the families where I was intimate,
the conversation of the ladies in the drawing-room, when we came up from dinner, often bored
me. I disliked routs exceedingly, and should often have sent an excuse if I had known what
to say. After my marriage I did not dance, for in Scotland it was thought highly indecorous
for a married woman to dance. Waltzing, when first introduced, was looked upon with horror,
and even in England it was then thought very improper.

One season I subscribed to the Concerts of Ancient Music, established by George the Third.
They seemed to be the resort of the aged; a young face was scarcely to be seen. The music was
perfect of its kind, but the whole affair was very dull. The Philharmonic Concerts were excellent
for scientific musicians, and I sometimes went to them; but for my part I infinitely preferred
hearing Pasta, Malibran, and Grisi, who have left the most vivid impression on my mind, although
so different from each other. Somerville enjoyed a comic opera exceedingly, and so did I; and
at that time Lablache was in the height of his fame. When Somerville and I made the tour in
Italy already mentioned, we visited Catalani (then Madame Valabrèque) in a villa near Florence,
to which she retired in her old age. She, however, died in Paris, of cholera, some years later.

Somerville liked the theatre as much as I did; so we saw all the greatest actors of the day,
both in tragedy and comedy, and the English theatre was then excellent. Young, who was scarcely
inferior to John Kemble, Macready, Kean, Liston, &c., and Miss O'Neill, who after a short brilliant
career entered into domestic life on her marriage with Sir William Beecher, were all at the
height of their fame. It was then I became acquainted with Lady Beecher, who was so simple
and natural that no one could have discovered she had ever been on the stage. A very clever
company of French comedians acted in a temporary theatre in Tottenham Court Road, where we
frequently went with a party of friends, and enjoyed very pleasant evenings. I think my fondness
for the theatre depended to a certain degree on my silent disposition; for unless among intimate
friends, or when much excited, I was startled at the sound of my own voice in general conversation,
from the shyness which has haunted me through life, and starts up occasionally like a ghost
in my old age. At a play I was not called upon to make any exertion, but could enjoy at my
ease an intellectual pleasure for the most part far superior to the general run of conversation.

       *     *     *     *     *

Among many others, we were intimate with Dr. and Mrs. Baillie and his sisters. Joanna was my
dear and valued friend to the end of her life. When her tragedy of "Montfort" was to be brought
on the stage, Somerville and I, with a large party of her relations and friends, went with
her to the theatre. The play was admirably acted, for Mrs. Siddons and her brother John Kemble
performed the principal parts. It was warmly applauded by a full house, but it was never acted
again. Some time afterwards "The Family Legend," founded on a Highland story, had better success
in Edinburgh; but Miss Baillie's plays, though highly poetical, are not suited to the stage.
Miss Mitford was more successful, for some of her plays were repeatedly acted. She excelled
also as a writer. "Our Village" is perfect of its kind; nothing can be more animated than her
description of a game of cricket. I met with Miss Austin's novels at this time, and thought
them excellent, especially "Pride and Prejudice." It certainly formed a curious contrast to
my old favourites, the Radcliffe novels and the ghost stories; but I had now come to years
of discretion.

Among my Quaker friends I met with that amiable but eccentric person Mrs. Opie. Though a "wet"
Quakeress, she continued to wear the peculiar dress. I was told that she was presented in it
at the Tuileries, and astonished the French ladies. We were also acquainted with Mrs. Fry,
a very different person, and heard her preach. Her voice was fine, her delivery admirable,
and her prayer sublime. We were intimate with Mr. (now Sir Charles) Lyell, who, if I mistake
not, first met with his wife at our house, where she was extremely admired as the beautiful
Miss Horner. Until we lost all our fortune, and went to live at Chelsea, I used to have little
evening parties in Hanover Square.

       *     *     *     *     *

I was not present at the coronation of George the Fourth; but I had a ticket for the gallery
in Westminster Hall, to see the banquet. Though I went very early in the morning, I found a
wonderful confusion. I showed my ticket of admission to one official person after another;
the answer always was "I know nothing about it." At last I got a good place near some ladies
I knew; even at that early hour the gallery was full. Some time after the ceremony in the Abbey
was over, the door of the magnificent hall was thrown open, and the king entered in the flowing
curls and costume of Henry the Eighth, and, imitating the jaunty manner of that monarch, walked
up the hall and sat down on the throne at its extremity. The peeresses had already taken their
seats under the gallery, and the king was followed by the peers, and the knights of the Garter,
Bath, Thistle, and St. Patrick, all in their robes. After every one had taken his seat, the
Champion, on his horse, both in full armour, rode up the hall, and threw down a gauntlet before
the king, while the heralds proclaimed that he was ready to do battle with any one who denied
that George the Fourth was the liege lord of these realms. Then various persons presented offerings
to the king in right of which they held their estates. One gentleman presented a beautiful
pair of falcons in their hoods. While this pageantry and noise was at its height, Queen Caroline
demanded to be admitted. There was a sudden silence and consternation,--it was like the "handwriting
on the wall!" The sensation was intense. At last the order was given to refuse her admittance;
the pageantry was renewed, and the banquet followed. The noise, heat, and vivid light of the
illumination of the hall gave me a racking headache; at last I went out of the gallery and
sat on a stair, where there was a little fresh air, and was very glad when all was over. Years
afterwards I was present in Westminster Abbey at the coronation of our Queen, then a pretty
young girl of eighteen. Placed in the most trying position at that early age, by her virtues,
both public and private, she has endeared herself to the nation beyond what any sovereign ever
did before.

       *     *     *     *     *

I, who had so many occupations and duties at home, soon tired of the idleness and formality
of visiting in the country. I made an exception, however, in favour of an occasional visit
to Mr. Sotheby, the poet, and his family in Epping Forest, of which, if I mistake not, he was
deputy-ranger; at all events, he had a pretty cottage there where he and his family received
their friends with kind hospitality. He spent part of the day in his study, and afterwards
I have seen him playing cricket with his son and grandson, with as much vivacity as any of
them. The freshness of the air was quite reviving to Somerville and me; and our two little
girls played in the forest all the day.

We also gladly went for several successive years to visit Sir John Saunders Sebright at Beechwood
Park, Hertfordshire. Dr. Wollaston generally travelled with us on these occasions, when we
had much conversation on a variety of subjects, scientific or general. He was remarkably acute
in his observations on objects as we passed them. "Look at that ash tree; did you ever notice
that the branches of the ash tree are curves of double curvature?" There was a comet visible
at the time of one of these little journeys. Dr. Wollaston had made a drawing of the orbit
and its elements; but, having left it in town, he described the lines so accurately without
naming them, that I remarked at once, "That is the curtate or perihelion distance," which pleased
him greatly, as it showed how accurate his description was. He was a chess-player, and, when
travelling alone, he used to carry a book with diagrams of partially-played games, in which
it is required to give checkmate in a fixed number of moves. He would study one of them, and
then, shutting the book, play out the game mentally.

Although Sir John was a keen sportsman and ox-hunter in his youth, he was remarkable for his
kindness to animals and for the facility with which he tamed them. He kept terriers, and his
pointers were first rate, yet he never allowed his keepers to beat a dog, nor did he ever do
it himself; he said a dog once cowed was good for nothing ever after. He trained them by tying
a string to the collar and giving it a sharp pull when the dog did wrong, and patting him kindly
when he did right. In this manner he taught some of his non-sporting dogs to play all sorts
of tricks, such as picking out the card chosen by any spectator from a number placed in a circle
on the floor, the signal being one momentary glance at the card, &c. &c. Sir John published
a pamphlet on the subject, and sent copies of it to the sporting gentlemen and keepers in the
county, I fear with little effect; men are so apt to vent their own bad temper on their dogs
and horses.

At one of the battues at Holkham, Chantrey killed two woodcocks at one shot. Mr. Hudson Gurney
some time after saw a brace of woodcocks carved in marble in Chantrey's studio; Chantrey told
him of his shot and the difficulty of finding a suitable inscription, and that it had been
tried in Latin and even Greek without success. Mr. Gurney said it should be very simple, such as:--

    Driven from the north, where winter starved them,
    Chantrey first shot, and then he carved them.

Beechwood was one of the few places in Great Britain in which hawking was kept up. The falcons
were brought from Flanders, for, except in the Isle of Skye, they have been extirpated in Great
Britain like many other of our fine indigenous birds. Sir John kept fancy pigeons of all breeds.
He told me he could alter the colour of their plumage in three years by cross-breeding, but
that it required fully six to alter the shape of the bird.

       *     *     *     *     *

At some house where we were dining in London, I forget with whom, Ugo Foscolo, the poet, was
one of the party. He was extremely excitable and irritable, and when some one spoke of a translation
of Dante as being perfect, "Impossible," shouted Foscolo, starting up in great excitement,
at the same time tossing his cup full of coffee into the air, cup and all, regardless of the
china and the ladies' dresses. He died in England, I fear in great poverty. He was a most distinguished
classical scholar as well as poet. His remains have been brought to Italy within these few
years, and interred in Sante Croce, in Florence.

       *     *     *     *     *

I had a severe attack of what appeared to be cholera, and during my recovery Mrs. Hankey very
kindly lent us her villa at Hampstead for a few weeks. There I went with my children, Somerville
with some friends always coming to dinner on the Sundays. On one of these occasions there was
a violent thunderstorm, and a large tree was struck not far from the house. We all went to
look at the tree as soon as the storm ceased, and found that a large mass of wood was scooped
out of the trunk from top to bottom. I had occasion in two other instances to notice the same
effect. Dr. Wollaston lent me a sextant and artificial horizon; so I amused myself taking the
altitude of the sun, the consequence of which was that I became as brown as a mulatto, but
I was too anxious to learn something of practical astronomy to care about the matter.

Our happy and cheerful life in Hanover Square came to a sad end. The illness and death of our
eldest girl threw Somerville and me into the deepest affliction. She was a child of intelligence
and acquirements far beyond her tender age.

    [The long illness and death of this young girl fell very heavily on
    my mother, who by this time had lost several children. The following
    letter was written by her to my grandfather on this occasion. It
    shows her steadfast faith in the mercy and goodness of God, even
    when crushed by almost the severest affliction which can wring a
    mother's heart:--]

    MRS. SOMERVILLE TO THE REV. DR. SOMERVILLE.

    LONDON, October, 1823.

    MY DEAR FATHER,

    I never was so long of writing to you, but when the heart is
    breaking it is impossible to find words adequate to its relief. We
    are in deep affliction, for though the first violence of grief has
    subsided, there has succeeded a calm sorrow not less painful, a
    feeling of hopelessness in this world which only finds comfort in
    the prospect of another, which longs for the consummation of all
    things that we may join those who have gone before. To return to the
    duties of life is irksome, even to those duties which were a delight
    when the candle of the Lord shone upon us. I do not arraign the
    decrees of Providence, but even in the bitterness of my soul I
    acknowledge the wisdom and goodness of God, and endeavour to be
    resigned to His will. It is ungrateful not to remember the many
    happy years we have enjoyed, but that very remembrance renders our
    present state more desolate and dreary--presenting a sad contrast.
    The great source of consolation is in the mercy of God and the
    virtues of those we lament; the full assurance that no good
    disposition can be lost but must be brought to perfection in a
    better world. Our business is to render ourselves fit for that
    blessed inheritance that we may again be united to those we mourn.

                   Your affectionate daughter,
                                          MARY SOMERVILLE.

       *     *     *     *     *

Somerville still held his place at the army medical board, and was now appointed physician
to Chelsea Hospital; so we left our cheerful, comfortable house and went to reside in a government
house in a very dreary and unhealthy situation, far from all our friends, which was a serious
loss to me, as I was not a good walker, and during the whole time I lived at Chelsea I suffered
from sick headaches. Still we were very glad of the appointment, for at this time we lost almost
the whole of our fortune, through the dishonesty of a person in whom we had the greatest confidence.

All the time we lived at Chelsea we had constant intercourse with Lady Noel Byron and Ada,
who lived at Esher, and when I came abroad I kept up a correspondence with both as long as
they lived. Ada was much attached to me, and often came to stay with me. It was by my advice
that she studied mathematics. She always wrote to me for an explanation when she met with any
difficulty. Among my papers I lately found many of her notes, asking mathematical questions.
Ada Byron married Lord King, afterwards created Earl of Lovelace, a college companion and friend
of my son.

Somerville had formed a friendship with Sir Henry Bunbury when he had a command in Sicily,
and we went occasionally to visit him at Barton in Suffolk. I liked Lady Bunbury very much;
she was a niece of the celebrated Charles Fox, and had a turn for natural history. I had made
a collection of native shells at Burntisland, but I only knew their vulgar names; now I learnt
their scientific arrangement from Lady Bunbury. Her son, Sir Charles Bunbury, is an authority
for fossil botany. The first Pinetum I ever saw was at Barton, and in 1837 I planted a cedar
in remembrance of one of our visits.

Through Lady Bunbury we became intimate with all the members of the illustrious family of the
Napiers, as she was sister of Colonel, afterwards General Sir William Napier, author of the
"History of the Peninsular War." One day Colonel Napier, who was then living in Sloane Street,
introduced Somerville and me to his mother, Lady Sarah Napier. Her manners were distinguished,
and though totally blind, she still had the remains of great beauty; her hand and arm, which
were exposed by the ancient costume she wore, were most beautiful still. The most sincere friendship
existed between Richard Napier and his wife and me through life; I shall never forget their
kindness to me at a time when I was in great sorrow. All the brothers are now gone. Richard
and his wife were long in bad health, and he was nearly blind; but his wife never knew it,
through the devoted attachment of Emily Shirriff, daughter of Admiral Shirriff, who was the
comfort and consolation of both to their dying day.

Maria Edgeworth came frequently to see us when she was in England. She was one of my most intimate
friends, warm-hearted and kind, a charming companion, with all the liveliness and originality
of an Irishwoman. For seventeen years I was in constant correspondence with her. The cleverness
and animation as well as affection of her letters I cannot express; certainly women are superior
to men in letter-writing.

    [The following is an extract from a letter from Maria Edgeworth to a
    friend concerning my mother:--]

    MARIA EDGEWORTH TO MISS .....

    BEECHWOOD PARK, January 17th, 1822.

    We have spent two days pleasantly here with Dr. Wollaston, our own
    dear friend Mrs. Marcet, and the Somervilles.

       *     *     *     *     *

While in London I had a French maid for my daughters, and on coming to Chelsea I taught them
a little geometry and algebra, as well as Latin and Greek, and, later, got a master for them,
that they might have a more perfect knowledge of these languages than I possessed. Keenly alive
to my own defects, I was anxious that my children should never undergo the embarrassment and
mortification I had suffered from ignorance of the common European languages. I engaged a young
German lady, daughter of Professor Becker, of Offenbach, near Frankfort, as governess, and
was most happy in my choice; but after being with us for a couple of years, she had a very
bad attack of fever, and was obliged to return home. She was replaced by a younger sister,
who afterwards married Professor Trendelenburg, Professor of Philosophy at the University of
Berlin. Though both these sisters were quite young, I had the most perfect confidence in them,
from their strict conscientiousness and morality. They were well educated, ladylike, and so
amiable, that they gained the friendship of my children and the affection of us all.

As we could with perfect confidence leave the children to Miss Becker's care, Sir James Mackintosh,
Somerville and I made an excursion to the Continent. We went to Brussels, and what lady can
go there without seeing the lace manufactory? I saw, admired,--and bought none! We were kindly
received by Professor Quetelet, whom we had previously known, and who never failed to send
me a copy of his valuable memoirs as soon as they were published. I have uniformly met with
the greatest kindness from scientific men at home and abroad. If any of them are alive when
this record is published, I beg they will accept of my gratitude. Of those that are no more
I bear a grateful remembrance.

The weather was beautiful when we were at Brussels, and in the evening we went to the public
garden. It was crowded with people, and very gay. We sat down, and amused ourselves by looking
at them as they passed. Sir James was a most agreeable companion, intimate with all the political
characters of the day, full of anecdote and historical knowledge. That evening his conversation
was so brilliant that we forgot the time, and looking around found that everybody had left
the garden, so we thought we might as well return to the hotel; but on coming to the iron-barred
gate we found it locked. Sir James and Somerville begged some of those that were passing to
call the keeper of the park to let us out; but they said it was impossible, that we must wait
till morning. A crowd assembled laughing and mocking, till at last we got out through the house
of one of the keepers of the park.

At Bonn we met with Baron Humboldt, and M. Schlegel, celebrated for his translation of Shakespeare.
On going up the Rhine, Sir James knew the history of every place and of every battle that had
been fought. A professor of his acquaintance in one of the towns invited us to dinner, and
I was astonished to see the lady of the house going about with a great bunch of keys dangling
at her side, assisting in serving up the dinner, and doing all the duty of carving, her husband
taking no part whatever in it. I was annoyed that we had given so much trouble by accepting
the invitation. In my younger days in Scotland, a lady might make the pastry and jelly, or
direct in the kitchen; but she took no part in cooking or serving up the dinner, and never
rose from the table till the ladies went to the drawing-room. However, as we could not afford
to keep a regular cook, an ill-dressed dish would occasionally appear, and then my father would
say, "God sends food, but the devil sends cooks."

In our tour through Holland, Somerville was quite at home, and amused himself talking to the
people, for he had learnt the Dutch language at the Cape of Good Hope. We admired the pretty
quaint costumes of the women; but I was the only one who took interest in the galleries. Many
of the pictures of the Dutch school are very fine; but I never should have made a collection
exclusively of them as was often done at one time in England. Lord Granville was British Minister
at the Hague, and dining at the Embassy one day we met with a Mrs.----, who, on hearing one
of the attachés addressed as Mr. Abercromby,[9] said, "Pray, Lord Granville, is that a son
of the great captain whom the Lord slew in the land of Egypt?'"

I never met with Madame de Staël, but heard a great deal about her during this journey from
Sir James Mackintosh, who was very intimate with her. At that time the men sat longer at table
after dinner than they do now; and on one occasion, at a dinner party at Sir James's house,
when Lady Mackintosh and the ladies returned to the drawing-room, Madame de Staël, who was
exceedingly impatient of women's society, would not deign to enter into conversation with any
of the ladies, but walked about the room; then suddenly ringing the bell, she said, "Ceci est
insupportable!" and when the servant appeared, she said: "Tell your master to come upstairs
directly; they have sat long enough at their wine."

    [After my mother's return home my father received the following
    letter from Lord Brougham, which very importantly influenced the
    further course of my mother's life. It is dated March 27th, 1827:--]

    LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM TO DR. SOMERVILLE.

    MY DEAR SIR,

    I fear you will think me very daring for the design I have formed
    against Mrs. Somerville, and still more for making you my advocate
    with her; through whom I have every hope of prevailing. There will
    be sent to you a prospectus, rules, and a preliminary treatise of
    our Society for Diffusing Useful Knowledge, and I assure you I speak
    without any flattery when I say that of the two subjects which I
    find it most difficult to see the chance of executing, there is
    one, which--unless Mrs. Somerville will undertake--none else can,
    and it must be left undone, though about the most interesting of the
    whole, I mean an account of the Mécanique Céleste; the other is an
    account of the Principia, which I have some hopes of at Cambridge.
    The kind of thing wanted is such a description of that divine work
    as will both explain to the unlearned the sort of thing it is--the
    plan, the vast merit, the wonderful truths unfolded or
    methodized--and the calculus by which all this is accomplished, and
    will also give a somewhat deeper insight to the uninitiated. Two
    treatises would do this. No one without trying it can conceive how
    far we may carry ignorant readers into an understanding of the
    depths of science, and our treatises have about 100 to 800 pages of
    space each, so that one might give the more popular view, and
    another the analytical abstracts and illustrations. In England there
    are now not twenty people who know this great work, except by name;
    and not a hundred who know it even by name. My firm belief is that
    Mrs. Somerville could add two cyphers to each of those figures. Will
    you be my counsel in this suit? Of course our names are concealed,
    and no one of our council but myself needs to know it.

                                         Yours ever most truly,
                                                          H. BROUGHAM.

    My mother in alluding to the above says:--

       *     *     *     *     *

This letter surprised me beyond expression. I thought Lord Brougham must have been mistaken
with regard to my acquirements, and naturally concluded that my self-acquired knowledge was
so far inferior to that of the men who had been educated in our universities that it would
be the height of presumption to attempt to write on such a subject or indeed on any other.
A few days after this Lord Brougham came to Chelsea himself, and Somerville joined with him
in urging me at least to make the attempt. I said, "Lord Brougham, you must be aware that the
work in question never can be popularized, since the student must at least know something of
the differential and integral calculi, and as a preliminary step I should have to prove various
problems in physical mechanics and astronomy. Besides, La Place never gives diagrams or figures,
because they are not necessary to persons versed in the calculus, but they would be indispensable
in a work such as you wish me to write. I am afraid I am incapable of such a task: but as you
both wish it so much, I shall do my very best upon condition of secrecy, and that if I fail
the manuscript shall be put into the fire." Thus suddenly and unexpectedly the whole character
and course of my future life was changed.

I rose early and made such arrangements with regard to my children and family affairs that
I had time to write afterwards; not, however, without many interruptions. At Chelsea I was
always supposed to be at home, and as my friends and acquaintances came so far out of their
way on purpose to see me, it would have been unkind and ungenerous not to receive them. Nevertheless,
I was sometimes annoyed when in the midst of a difficult problem some one would enter and say,
"I have come to spend a few hours with you." However, I learnt by habit to leave a subject
and resume it again at once, like putting a mark into a book I might be reading; this was the
more necessary as there was no fire-place in my little room, and I had to write in the drawing-room
in winter. Frequently I hid my papers as soon as the bell announced a visitor, lest anyone
should discover my secret.

    [My mother had a singular power of abstraction. When occupied with
    some difficult problem, or even a train of thought which deeply
    interested her, she lost all consciousness of what went on around
    her, and became so entirely absorbed that any amount of talking, or
    even practising scales and solfeggi, went on without in the least
    disturbing her. Sometimes a song or a strain of melody would recall
    her to a sense of the present, for she was passionately fond of
    music. A curious instance of this peculiarity of hers occurred at
    Rome, when a large party were assembled to listen to a celebrated
    improvisatrice. My mother was placed in the front row, close to the
    poetess, who, for several stanzas, adhered strictly to the subject
    which had been given to her. What it was I do not recollect, except
    that it had no connection with what followed. All at once, as if by
    a sudden inspiration, the lady turned her eyes full upon my mother,
    and with true Italian vehemence and in the full musical accents of
    Rome, poured forth stanza after stanza of the most eloquent
    panegyric upon her talents and virtues, extolling them and her to
    the skies. Throughout the whole of this scene, which lasted a
    considerable time, my mother remained calm and unmoved, never
    changing countenance, which surprised not only the persons present
    but ourselves, as we well knew how much she disliked any display or
    being brought forward in public. The truth was, that after listening
    for a while to the improvising, a thought struck her connected with
    some subject she was engaged in writing upon at the time and so
    entirely absorbed her that she heard not a word of all that had been
    declaimed in her praise, and was not a little surprised and confused
    when she was complimented on it. I call this, advisedly, a power of
    hers, for although it occasionally led her into strange positions,
    such as the one above mentioned, it rendered her entirely
    independent of outward circumstances, nor did she require to isolate
    herself from the family circle in order to pursue her studies. I
    have already mentioned that when we were very young she taught us
    herself for a few hours daily; when our lessons were over we always
    remained in the room with her, learning grammar, arithmetic, or some
    such plague of childhood. Any one who has plunged into the mazes of
    the higher branches of mathematics or other abstruse science, would
    probably feel no slight degree of irritation on being interrupted
    at a critical moment when the solution was almost within his grasp,
    by some childish question about tense or gender, or how much seven
    times seven made. My mother was never impatient, but explained our
    little difficulties quickly and kindly, and returned calmly to her
    own profound thoughts. Yet on occasion she could show both
    irritation and impatience--when we were stupid or inattentive,
    neither of which she could stand. With her clear mind she darted at
    the solution, sometimes forgetting that we had to toil after her
    laboriously step by step. I well remember her slender white hand
    pointing impatiently to the book or slate--"Don't you see it? there
    is no difficulty in it, it is quite clear." Things were so clear to
    her! I must here add some other recollections by my mother of this
    very interesting portion of her life.]

       *     *     *     *     *

I was a considerable time employed in writing this book, but I by no means gave up society,
which would neither have suited Somerville nor me. We dined out, went to evening parties, and
occasionally to the theatre. As soon as my work was finished I sent the manuscript to Lord
Brougham, requesting that it might be thoroughly examined, criticised and destroyed according
to promise if a failure. I was very nervous while it was under examination, and was equally
surprised and gratified that Sir John Herschel, our greatest astronomer, and perfectly versed
in the calculus, should have found so few errors. The letter he wrote on this occasion made
me so happy and proud that I have preserved it.

    LETTER FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I have read your manuscript with the greatest pleasure, and will not
    hesitate to add, (because I am sure you will believe it sincere,)
    with the highest admiration. Go on thus, and you will leave a
    memorial of no common kind to posterity; and, what you will value
    far more than fame, you will have accomplished a most useful work.
    What a pity that La Place has not lived to see this illustration of
    his great work! You will only, I fear, give too strong a stimulus to
    the study of abstract science by this performance.

    I have marked as somewhat obscure a part of the illustration of the
    principle of virtual velocities.... Will you look at this point
    again? I have made a trifling remark in page 6, but it is a mere
    matter of metaphysical nicety, and perhaps hardly worth pencilling
    your beautiful manuscript for.

                                      Ever yours most truly,
                                                       J. HERSCHEL.

    [In publishing the following letter, I do not consider that I am
    infringing on the rule I have followed in obedience to my mother's
    wishes, that is, to abstain from giving publicity to all letters
    which are of a private and confidential character. This one entirely
    concerns her scientific writings, and is interesting as showing the
    confidence which existed between Sir John Herschel and
    herself. This great philosopher was my mother's truest and best
    friend, one whose opinion she valued above all others, whose genius
    and consummate talents she admired, and whose beautiful character
    she loved with an intensity which is better shown by some extracts
    from her letters to be given presently than by anything I can say.
    This deep regard on her part he returned with the most chivalrous
    respect and admiration. In any doubt or difficulty it was his advice
    she sought, his criticism she submitted to; both were always frankly
    given without the slightest fear of giving offence, for Sir John
    Herschel well knew the spirit with which any remarks of his would be
    received.]

    FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    SLOUGH, Feb. 23rd, 1830.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    ... As you contemplate separate publication, and as the attention of
    many will be turned to a work from your pen who will just possess
    quantum enough of mathematical knowledge to be able to read the
    first chapter without being able to follow you into its application,
    and as these, moreover, are the very people who will think
    themselves privileged to criticise and use their privilege with the
    least discretion, I cannot recommend too much clearness, fulness,
    and order in the exposé of the principles. Were I you, I would
    devote to this first part at least double the space you have done.
    Your familiarity with the results and formulæ has led you into what
    is extremely natural in such a case--a somewhat hasty passing over
    what, to a beginner, would prove insuperable difficulties; and if I
    may so express it, a sketchiness of outline (as a painter you will
    understand my meaning, and what is of more consequence, see how it
    is to be remedied).

    You have adopted, I see, the principle of virtual velocity, and the
    principle of d'Alembert, rather as separate and independent
    principles to be used as instruments of investigation than as
    convenient theories, flowing themselves from the general law of
    force and equilibrium, to be first proved and then remembered as
    compact statements in a form fit for use. The demonstration of the
    principle of virtual velocities is so easy and direct in Laplace
    that I cannot imagine anything capable of rendering it plainer than
    he has done. But a good deal more explanation of what is virtual
    velocity, &c., would be advantageous--and virtual velocities should
    be kept quite distinct from the arbitrary variations represented by
    the sign [Greek: d].

    With regard to the principle of d'Alembert--take my advice and
    explode it altogether. It is the most awkward and involved statement
    of a plain dynamical equation that ever puzzled student. I speak
    feelingly and with a sense of irritation at the whirls and vortices
    it used to cause in my poor head when first I entered on this
    subject in my days of studentship. I know not a single case where
    its application does not create obscurity--nay doubt. Nor can a
    case ever occur where any such principle is called for. The general
    law that the change of motion is proportional to the moving force
    and takes place in its direction, provided we take care always to
    regard the reaction of curves, surfaces, obstacles, &c., as so
    many real moving forces of (for a time) unknown magnitude, will
    always help us out of any dynamical scrape we may get into. Laplace,
    page 20, Méc. Cél. art. 7, is a little obscure here, and in deriving
    his equation (f) a page of explanation would be well bestowed.

    One thing let me recommend, if you use as principles either this, or
    that of virtual velocities, or any other, state them broadly and in
    general terms.... You will think me, I fear, a rough critic, but I
    think of Horace's good critic,

        Fiet Aristarchus: nec dicet, cur ego amicum
        Offendam in nugis? Hæ nugæ seria ducent
        In mala,

    and what we can both now laugh at, and you may, if you like, burn as
    nonsense (I mean these remarks), would come with a very different
    kind of force from some sneering reviewer in the plenitude of his
    triumph at the detection of a slip of the pen or one of those little
    inaccuracies which humana parum cavit natura....

                                    Very faithfully yours,
                                                      J. HERSCHEL.

       *     *     *     *     *

    [About the same time my father received a letter from Dr. Whewell,
    afterwards Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, dated 2nd November,
    1831, in which he says:--]

    "I beg you to offer my best thanks to Mrs. Somerville for her kind
    present. I shall have peculiar satisfaction in possessing it as a
    gift of the author, a book which I look upon as one of the most
    remarkable which our age has produced, which would be highly
    valuable from anyone, and which derives a peculiar interest from its
    writer. I am charged also to return the thanks of the Philosophical
    Society here for the copy presented to them. I have not thought it
    necessary to send the official letter containing the acknowledgment,
    as Mrs. Somerville will probably have a sufficient collection of
    specimens of such character. I have also to thank her on the part of
    our College for the copy sent to the library. I am glad that our
    young mathematicians in Trinity will have easy access to the book,
    which will be very good for them as soon as they can read it. When
    Mrs. Somerville shows herself in the field which we mathematicians
    have been labouring in all our lives, and puts us to shame, she
    ought not to be surprised if we move off to other ground, and betake
    ourselves to poetry. If the fashion of 'commendatory verses' were
    not gone by, I have no doubt her work might have appeared with a
    very pretty collection of well-deserved poetical praises in its
    introductory pages. As old customs linger longest in places like
    this, I hope she and you will not think it quite extravagant to send
    a single sonnet on the occasion.

                                             "Believe me,
                                                  "Faithfully yours,
                                                           "W. WHEWELL."

    TO MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    ON HER "MECHANISM OF THE HEAVENS."

    Lady, it was the wont in earlier days
    When some fair volume from a valued pen,
    Long looked for, came at last, that grateful men
    Hailed its forthcoming in complacent lays:
    As if the Muse would gladly haste to praise
    That which her mother, Memory, long should keep
    Among her treasures. Shall such usage sleep
    With us, who feel too slight the common phrase
    For our pleased thoughts of you, when thus we find
    That dark to you seems bright, perplexed seems plain,
    Seen in the depths of a pellucid mind,
    Full of clear thought, pure from the ill and vain
    That cloud the inward light? An honoured name
    Be yours; and peace of heart grow with your growing fame.

    [Professor Peacock, afterwards Dean of Ely, in a letter, dated
    February 14th, 1832, thanked my mother for a copy of the "Mechanism
    of the Heavens."]

    LETTER FROM PROFESSOR PEACOCK TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    "I consider it to be a work which will contribute greatly to the
    extension of the knowledge of physical astronomy, in this country,
    and of the great analytical processes which have been employed in
    such investigations. It is with this view that I consider it to be a
    work of the greatest value and importance. Dr. Whewell and myself
    have already taken steps to introduce it into the course of our
    studies at Cambridge, and I have little doubt that it will
    immediately become an essential work to those of our students who
    aspire to the highest places in our examinations."

    [On this my mother remarks:--]

       *     *     *     *     *

I consider this as the highest honour I ever received, at the time I was no less sensible of
it, and was most grateful. I was surprised and pleased beyond measure to find that my book
should be so much approved of by Dr. Whewell, one of the most eminent men of the age for science
and literature; and by Professor Peacock, a profound mathematician, who with Herschel and Babbage
had, a few years before, first introduced the calculus as an essential branch of science into
the University of Cambridge.

In consequence of this decision the whole edition of the "Mechanism of the Heavens," amounting
to 750 copies, was sold chiefly at Cambridge, with the exception of a very few which I gave
to friends; but as the preface was the only part of the work that was intelligible to the general
reader, I had some copies of it printed separately to give away.

I was astonished at the success of my book; all the reviews of it were highly favourable; I
received letters of congratulation from many men of science. I was elected an honorary member
of the Royal Astronomical Society at the same time as Miss Caroline Herschel. To be associated
with so distinguished an astronomer was in itself an honour. Mr. De Morgan, to whom I am indebted
for many excellent mathematical works, was then secretary of the society, and announced to
us the distinction conferred. The council of the Society ordered that a copy of the "Greenwich
Observations" should be regularly sent to me.

    [The Académie des Sciences elected my mother's old friend M. Biot
    to draw up a report upon her "Mechanism of the Heavens," which he
    did in the most flattering terms, and upon my mother writing to
    thank him, replied as follows:--]

    FROM M. BIOT TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    MADAME,

    Revenu de Lyon depuis quelques jours, j'ai trouvé à Paris les deux
    lettres dont vous avez daigné m'honorer, et j'ai reçu également
    l'exemplaire de votre ouvrage que vous avez bien voulu joindre à la
    dernière. C'est être mille fois trop bonne, Madame, que de me
    remercier encore de ce qui m'a fait tant de plaisir. En rendant
    compte de cet étonnant Traité, je remplissais d'abord un devoir,
    puisque l'Académie m'avait chargé de le lire pour elle; mais ce
    devoir m'offrait un attrait que vous concevriez facilement, s'il
    vous était possible de vous rappeler l'admiration vive et profonde
    que m'inspira il y a longtemps l'union si extraordinaire de tous les
    talens et de toutes les grâces, avec les connaissances sevères que
    nous autres hommes avions la folie de croire notre partage exclusif.
    Ce qui me charma alors, Madame, je n'ai pas cessé depuis de m'en
    souvenir; et des rapports d'amitié qui me sont bien chers, ont
    encore, à votre insçu, fortifié ces sentimens. Jugez donc, Madame,
    combien j'étais heureux d'avoir à peindre ce que je comprenais si
    bien, et ce que j'avais vu avec un si vif intérêt. Le plus amusant
    pour moi de cette rencontre, c'était de voir nos plus graves
    confrères, par exemple, Lacroix et Legendre, qui certes ne sont pas
    des esprits légers, ni galans d'habitude, ni faciles à émouvoir, me
    gourmander, comme ils le faisaient à chaque séance, de ce que je
    tardais tant à faire mon rapport, de ce que j'y mettais tant
    d'insouciance et si peu de grâce; enfin, Madame, c'était une
    conquête intellectuelle complète. Je n'ai pas manqué de raconter
    cette circonstance comme un des fleurons de votre couronne. Je me
    suis ainsi acquitté envers eux; et quant à vous, Madame, d'après la
    manière dont vous parlez vous-même de votre ouvrage, j'ai quelque
    espérance de l'avoir présenté sous le point de vue où vous semblez
    l'envisager. Mais, en vous rendant ce juste et sincère hommage et en
    l'insérant au Journal des Savants, je n'ai pas eu la précaution de
    demander qu'on m'en mit à part; aujourd'hui que la collection est
    tirée je suis aux regrets d'avoir été si peu prévoyant. Au reste,
    Madame, il n'y a rien dans cet extrait que ce que pensent tous ceux
    qui vous connaissent, ou même qui ont eu une seule fois le bonheur
    de vous approcher. Vos amis trouveront que j'ai exprimé bien
    faiblement les charmes de votre esprit et de votre caractère;
    charmes qu'ils doivent apprécier d'autant mieux qu'ils en jouissent
    plus souvent; mais vous, Madame, qui êtes indulgente, vous
    pardonnerez la faiblesse d'un portrait qui n'a pu être fait que de
    souvenir.

    J'ai l'honneur d'être, avec le plus profond respect,

                                    Madame,
                    Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur,
                                                                 BIOT.

       *     *     *     *     *

It was unanimously voted by the Royal Society of London, that my bust should be placed in their
great Hall, and Chantrey was chosen as the sculptor. Soon after it was finished, Mr. Potter,
a great ship-builder at Liverpool, who had just completed a fine vessel intended for the China
and India trade, wrote to my friend, Sir Francis Beaufort, hydrographer of the Royal Navy,
asking him if I would give him permission to call her the "Mary Somerville," and to have a
copy of my bust for her figure-head. I was much gratified with this, as might be expected.
The "Mary Somerville" sailed, but was never heard of again; it was supposed she had foundered
during a typhoon in the China sea.

I was elected an honorary member of the Royal Academy at Dublin, of the Bristol Philosophical
Institution, and of the Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle of Geneva, which was announced
to me by a very gratifying letter from Professor Prevost.

Our relations and others who had so severely criticized and ridiculed me, astonished at my
success, were now loud in my praise. The warmth with which Somerville entered into my success
deeply affected me; for not one in ten thousand would have rejoiced at it as he did; but he
was of a generous nature, far above jealousy, and he continued through life to take the kindest
interest in all I did.

I now received the following letter from Sir Robert Peel, informing me in the handsomest manner
that he had advised the King to grant me a pension of 200l. a year:--

    LETTER FROM SIR ROBERT PEEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    WHITEHALL GARDENS
    March, 1835.

    MADAM,

    In advising the Crown in respect to the grant of civil pensions, I
    have acted equally with a sense of public duty and on the impulse of
    my own private feelings in recognising among the first claims on the
    Royal favour those which are derived from eminence in science and
    literature.

    In reviewing such claims, it is impossible that I can overlook those
    which you have established by the successful prosecution of studies
    of the highest order, both from the importance of the objects to
    which they relate, and from the faculties and acquirements which
    they demand.

    As my object is a public one, to encourage others to follow the
    bright example which you have set, and to prove that great
    scientific attainments are recognised among public claims, I prefer
    making a direct communication to you, to any private inquiries into
    your pecuniary circumstances, or to any proposal through a third
    party. I am enabled to advise His Majesty to grant to you a pension
    on the civil list of two hundred pounds per annum; and if that
    provision will enable you to pursue your labours with less of
    anxiety, either as to the present or the future, I shall only be
    fulfilling a public duty, and not imposing upon you the slightest
    obligation, by availing myself of your permission to submit such a
    recommendation to the King.

                      I have the honour to be,
                              Madam, with the sincerest respect,
                                                         ROBERT PEEL.

       *     *     *     *     *

I was highly pleased, but my pleasure was of short duration, for the very next day a letter
informed us that by the treachery of persons in whom we trusted, the last remains of our capital
were lost. By the kindness of Lord John Russell, when he was Prime Minister, a hundred a-year
was added to my pension, for which I was very grateful.

       *     *     *     *     *

After the "Mechanism of the Heavens" was published, I was thrown out of work, and now that
I had got into the habit of writing I did not know what to make of my spare time. Fortunately
the preface of my book furnished me with the means of active occupation; for in it I saw such
mutual dependence and connection in many branches of science, that I thought the subject might
be carried to a greater extent.

There were many subjects with which I was only partially acquainted, and others of which I
had no previous knowledge, but which required to be carefully investigated, so I had to consult
a variety of authors, British and foreign. Even the astronomical part was difficult, for I
had to translate analytical formulæ into intelligible language, and to draw diagrams illustrative
thereof, and this occupied the first seven sections of the book. I should have been saved much
trouble had I seen a work on the subject by Mr. Airy, Astronomer-Royal, published subsequently
to my book.

My son, Woronzow Greig, had been educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, and was travelling
on the Continent, when Somerville and I received an invitation from the Principal, Dr. Whewell,
to visit the University. Mr. Airy, then astronomer at Cambridge, now Astronomer-Royal at Greenwich,
and Mrs. Airy kindly wished us to be their guests; but as the Observatory was at some distance
from Cambridge, it was decided that we should have an apartment in Trinity College itself;
an unusual favour where a lady is concerned. Mr. Sedgwick, the geologist, made the arrangements,
received us, and we spent the first day at dinner with him. He is still alive[10]--one of my
few coevals--either in Cambridge or England. The week we spent in Cambridge, receiving every
honour from the heads of the University, was a period of which I have ever borne a proud and
grateful remembrance.

    [Professor Sedgwick wrote as follows to my father:--]

    FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWICK TO DR. SOMERVILLE.

    TRINITY COLLEGE, April, 1834.

    MY DEAR SOMERVILLE,

    Your letter delighted us. I have ordered dinner on Thursday at 6-1/2
    and shall have a small party to welcome you and Mrs. Somerville. In
    order that we may not have to fight for you, we have been entering
    on the best arrangements we can think of. On Tuesday you will, I
    hope, dine with Peacock; on Wednesday with Whewell; on Thursday at
    the Observatory. For Friday, Dr. Clarke, our Professor of Anatomy,
    puts in a claim. For the other days of your visit we shall, D.V.,
    find ample employment. A four-poster bed now (a thing utterly out of
    our regular monastic system) will rear its head for you and Madame
    in the chambers immediately below my own; and your handmaid may
    safely rest her bones in a small inner chamber. Should Sheepshanks
    return, we can stuff him into a lumber room of the observatory; but
    of this there is no fear as I have written to him on the subject,
    and he has no immediate intention of returning. You will of course
    drive to the great gate of Trinity College, and my servant will be
    in waiting at the Porter's lodge to show you the way to your
    academic residence. We have no cannons at Trinity College, otherwise
    we would fire a salute on your entry; we will however give you the
    warmest greeting we can. Meanwhile give my best regards to Mrs. S.

                             And believe me most truly yours,
                                                        A. SEDGWICK.

       *     *     *     *     *

La Place had a profound veneration for Newton; he sent me a copy of his "Système du Monde,"
and a letter, dated 15th August, 1824, in which he says: "Je publie successivement les divers
livres du cinquième livre qui doit terminer mon traité de 'Mécanique Céleste,' et dans cela
je donne l'analyse historique des recherches des géomètres sur cette matière, cela m'a fait
relire avec une attention particulière l'ouvrage si incomparable des principes mathématiques
de la philosophie naturelle de Newton, qui contient le germe de toutes ses recherches. Plus
j'ai étudié cet ouvrage plus il m'a paru admirable, en me transportant surtout à l'époque où
il a été publié. Mais en même tems que je sens l'élégance de la méthode synthétique suivant
laquelle Newton a présenté ses découvertes, j'ai reconnu l'indispensable nécessité de l'analyse
pour approfondir les questions très difficiles que Newton n'a pu qu'effleurer par la synthèse.
Je vois avec un grand plaisir vos mathématiciens se livrer maintenant à l'analyse et je ne
doute point qu'en suivant cette méthode avec la sagacité propre à votre nation ils ne seront
conduits à d'importantes découvertes."

Newton himself was aware that by the law of gravitation the stability of the solar system was
endangered. The power of analysis alone enabled La Grange to prove that all the disturbances
arising from the reciprocal attraction of the planets and satellites are periodical, whatever
the length of the periods may be, so that the stability of the solar system is insured for
unlimited ages. The perturbations are only the oscillations of that immense pendulum of Eternity
which beats centuries as ours beats seconds.

La Place, and all the great mathematicians of that period, had scarcely passed away when the
more powerful Quaternion system began to dawn.

My health was never good at Chelsea, and as I had been working too hard, I became so ill, that
change of air and scene were thought absolutely necessary for me. We went accordingly to Paris;
partly, because it was near home, as Somerville could not remain long with us at a time, and,
partly, because we thought it a good opportunity to give masters to the girls, which we could
not afford to do in London. When we arrived, I was so weak, that I always remained in bed writing
till one o'clock, and then, either went to sit in the Tuileries gardens, or else received visits.
All my old friends came to see me, Arago, the first. He was more engaged in politics than science,
and as party spirit ran very high at that time, he said he would send tickets of admission
to the Chambers every time there was likely to be an "orage." When I told him what I was writing,
he gave me some interesting memoirs, and lent me a mass of manuscripts, with leave to make
extracts, which were very useful to me. General de La Fayette came to town on purpose to invite
Somerville and me to visit him at La Grange, where we found him living like a patriarch, surrounded
by his family to the fourth generation. He was mild, highly distinguished, and noble in his
manners; his conversation was exceedingly interesting, as he readily spoke of the Revolution
in which he had taken so active a part. Among other anecdotes, he mentioned, that he had sent
the principal key of the Bastile to General Washington, who kept it under a glass case. He
was much interested to hear that I could, in some degree, claim a kind of relationship with
Washington, whose mother was a Fairfax. Baron Fairfax, the head of the family, being settled
in America, had joined the independent party at the Revolution.

The two daughters of La Fayette, who had been in prison with him at Olmütz, were keen politicians,
and discussed points with a warmth of gesticulation which amused Somerville and me, accustomed
to our cold still manners. The grand-daughters, Mesdames de Rémusat and de Corcelles, were
kind friends to me all the time I was in Paris.

M. Bouvard, whom we had known in London, was now Astronomer-Royal of France, and he invited
us to dine with him at the Observatory. The table was surrounded by savants, who complimented
me on the "Mechanism of the Heavens." I sat next M. Poisson, who advised me in the strongest
manner to write a second volume, so as to complete the account of La Place's works; and he
afterwards told Somerville, that there were not twenty men in France who could read my book.
M. Arago, who was of the party, said, he had not written to thank me for my book, because he
had been reading it, and was busy preparing an account of it for the Journal of the Institute.
At this party, I made the acquaintance of the celebrated astronomer, M. Pontécoulant, and soon
after, of M. La Croix, to whose works I was indebted for my knowledge of the highest branches
of mathematics. M. Prony, and M. Poinsot, came to visit me, the latter, an amiable and gentlemanly
person; both gave me a copy of their works.

We had a long visit from M. Biot, who seemed really glad to renew our old friendship. He was
making experiments on light, though much out of health; but when we dined with him and Madame
Biot, he forgot for the time his bad health, and resumed his former gaiety. They made us promise
to visit them at their country-house when we returned to England, as it lay on our road.

To my infinite regret, La Place had been dead some time; the Marquise was still at Arcueil,
and we went to see her. She received us with the greatest warmth, and devoted herself to us
the whole time we were in Paris. As soon as she came to town, we went to make a morning visit;
it was past five o'clock; we were shown into a beautiful drawing-room, and the man-servant,
without knocking at the door, went into the room which was adjacent, and we heard her call
out, "J'irai la voir! j'irai la voir!" and when the man-servant came out, he said, "Madame
est désolée, mais elle est en chemise." Madame de La Place was exceedingly agreeable, the life
of every party, with her cheerful gay manner. She was in great favour with the Royal Family,
and was always welcome when she went to visit them in an evening. She received once a week,
and her grand-daughter, only nineteen, lovely and graceful, was an ornament to her parties.
She was already married to M. de Colbert, whose father fell at Corunna.

