Perhaps the most singular bibliographic curiosity is that which belonged to the family of the
Prince de Ligne, and is now in France. It is entitled Liber Passionis Domini nostri Jesu Christi,
cum Characteribus nulla materia compositis. This book is neither written nor printed! The whole
letters of the text are cut out of each folio upon the finest vellum; and being interleaved
with blue paper, is read as easily as the best print. The labour and patience bestowed in its
completion must have been excessive, especially when the precision and minuteness of the letters
are considered. The general execution, in every respect, is indeed admirable; and the vellum
is of the most delicate and costly kind. Rodolphus II. of Germany offered for it, in 1640,
11,000 ducats, which was probably equal to 60,000 at this day. The most remarkable circumstance
connected with this literary treasure is, that it bears the royal arms of England; but it cannot
be traced to have ever been in this country.

I now offer this notice, in the hope that the readers of "N. & Q." may supply farther particulars;
such as the time of its commencement or completion, and also whether it is still in France.
With respect to the arms of England, which yet present a puzzle to all antiquaries, I beg to
submit a conjecture. I think it was intended as a present to our Henry VIII., when he was in
such high favour at Rome, for his Defence of the Seven Sacraments, that Leo X. conferred on
him the title of "Fidei Defensor," and which all our sovereigns have subsequently retained.
But when he threw off the Papal authority, declared himself supreme head of the Church, and
proceeded to confiscate its property, the intention of presentation was abandoned. This is
at least plausible, as I do not mean that it was originally designed for a present to "bluff
Harry," because it was produced before he was born. But the arms were a work for any time;
and I think they were executed just before his rupture with the Pope was known. To pay him
a compliment afterwards from any part of Catholic Europe was, of course, out of the question.

C. B. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Baptism, Marriage, and Crowning of Geo. III.--

    "Died at his palace at Lambeth, aged seventy-five, the Most Reverend
    Thomas Secker, LL.D., Lord Archbishop of Canterbury. His Grace was many
    years Prebendary of Durham, seventeen years Rector of St. James',
    Westminster, consecrated Bishop of Bristol in 1734, and in 1737 was
    translated to the See of Oxford. In 1750 he resigned the Rectory of St.
    James, on his succeeding Bishop Butler in the Deanery of St. Paul's;
    and on the death of Archbishop Hutton in 1758, was immediately
    nominated to the metropolitan see, and confirmed at Bow Church, on the
    20th of April in that year, Archbishop of Canterbury. His Grace was
    Rector of St. James's when our present sovereign was born at Norfolk
    House, and had the honour to baptize, to marry, and crown his majesty
    and his royal consort, and to baptize several of their majesties'
    children."--From Pennsylvania Chronicle, Oct. 3, 1768.

M. R. F.

Pennsylvania.

Copernicus.--The inscription on the tomb of the celebrated Copernicus, in the cathedral church
at Thorn, in Prussian Poland, supposed to have been written by himself, deserves a place in
"N. & Q."

 "Non parem Pauli gratiam requiro,
  Veniam Petri neque posco; sed quam
  In crucis ligno dederat Latroni
            Sedulus oro."

FITZROY.

First Instance of Bribery amongst Members of Parliament.--The following extract from Parry's
Parliaments and Councils of England, deserves, I think, a corner in "N. & Q.," especially at
the present day:

    "1571, A. R. 13, May 10.--Thomas Long, 'a very simple man and unfit' to
    serve, is questioned how he came to be elected. He confesses that he
    gave the Mayor of Westbury and another four pounds for his place in
    parliament. They are ordered to repay this sum, to appear to answer
    such things as should be objected against them in that house, and a
    fine of twenty pounds is to be assessed on the corporation and
    inhabitants of Westbury, for their scandalous attempt."

ABHBA.

Richard Brinsley Sheridan.--In the "Life of Sheridan," by G. G. S., prefixed to his Dramatic
Works, published by Bohn in 1848, is the following passage (p. 90.):

    "At the age of twenty-nine he had achieved a brilliant reputation, had
    gained an immense property, and was apparently master of large
    resources."

And in an essay lately published, entitled Richard Brinsley Sheridan, by George Gilfillan,
is this statement:

    "Young Sheridan had no patrimony, not a shilling, indeed, all his
    life that he could call his own."

Which of these two contradictory accounts is true?

In the Life by G. G. S. are two glaring slips of the pen or of the press; at p. 8. it is said
that Sheridan was born in the year 1771 (1751?), and at p. 44. that The Duenna was brought
out on the 21st of November, 1755 (1775?).

WILLIAM DUANE.

Philadelphia.

{448}

Publican's Invitation.--Amongst various other ingenious contrivances adopted by the proprietors
of the rosoglio houses (anglicè, dram-shops) in Valetta, to attract the custom and patronage
of the gallant red-jackets that swarm in our streets at this time, one individual has put forth
and distributed among the soldiers the following puzzle, which I send for the amusement of
your readers. A very little study will suffice to master the mysterious document.

   "THE PUBLICAN'S INVITATION.
  Here's to Pand's Pen. DASOCI.
  Alhou Rinha? R. M. (Les Smirt)
  Ha! N. D. F. Unlet fri. Ends.
  HIPRE! ign. Beju! Standk.
  Indan! DEVIL'S PEAKO! F. N.
  (One.)"

JOHN O' THE FORD.

Malta.

Bishop Burnet again!--The following anecdote occurs in Mrs. Thistlethwaite's Memoirs and Correspondence
of Dr. Henry Bathurst, Lord Bishop of Norwich, p. 7.:

    "I have heard my father mention the following anecdote of my
    grandfather, Benjamin Bathurst, Esq., and the Duke of Gloucester (Queen
    Anne's son), during their boyhood. My grandfather and the Duke were
    playfellows; and the Duke's tutor was Dr. Burnet. One day, when the
    Doctor went out of the room, the Duke having as usual courted him, and
    treated him with obsequious civility, young Bathurst expressed his
    surprise that his Royal Highness should treat a person, whom he
    disliked as much as he did the Doctor, with so much courtesy and
    kindness. The Duke replied, 'Do you think I have been so long a pupil
    of Dr. Burnet's without learning to be a hypocrite?'"

J. Y.

Old Custom preserved in Warwickshire.--There is a large stone a few miles from Dunchurch, in
Warwickshire, called "The Knightlow Cross." Several of Lord John Scott's tenants hold from
him on the condition of laying their rent before daybreak on Martinmas Day on this stone: if
they fail to do so, they forfeit to him as many pounds as they owe pence, or as many white
bulls with red tips to their ears and a red tip to their tail as they owe pence, whichever
he chooses to demand. This custom is still kept up, and there is always hard riding to reach
the stone before the sun rises on Martinmas Day?

L. M. M. R.

English Diplomacy v. Russian.--A friend of Sir Henry Wotton's being designed for the employment
of an ambassador, came to Eton, and requested from him some experimental rules for his prudent
and safe carriage in his negociations; to whom he smilingly gave this for an infallible aphorism,--that,
to be in safety himself, and serviceable to his country, he should always, and upon all occasions,
speak the truth (it seems a state paradox). "For," says Sir Henry Wotton, "you shall never
be believed; and by this means your truth will secure yourself, if you shall ever be called
to any account; and 'twill also put your adversaries (who will still hunt counter) to a loss
in all their disquisitions and undertakings." (Reliquiæ Wottonianæ.)

ALPHA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

ANCIENT TENURE OF LANDS.

(Vol. ix., pp. 173. 309.)

The following paragraphs, containing both Notes and Queries, will doubtless interest your readers

At the last Kent assizes held at Maidstone (March, 1854) a case was tried by a special jury,
of whom the writer was one, before Mr. Baron Parke; plaintiffs, "the Earl of Romney and others,"
trustees under an act of parliament to pay the debts of the borough of Queenborough, county
Kent; defendants, "the Inclosure Commissioners of England and Wales." Tradition relates that
Edward III. was so pleased with his construction of the Castle of Queenborough, that he complimented
his consort by not only building a town, but creating a borough[4], which he named after her
honour.[5] The case, in various shapes, has been before the law courts for some time, and was
sent to these Kent assizes to ascertain whether Queenborough was either a manor or a reputed
manor. In the course of the trial Baron Parke said, that, in despite of the statute Quia Emptores,
he should rule that manors could be created when they contained the essentials.

My first Query is, therefore, Have any manors been created in England since the passing of
that statute? In my History of Deptford I have alluded to the manor of Hatcham as one of the
last manors I supposed to have been created.

The Inclosure Commissioners, as the defendants, had been prayed by the Leeze-holders[6] of
{449} Queenborough to inclose sundry lands called Queenborough Common; such inclosure was opposed
by the trustees, who claimed under the act of parliament which constituted their existence
to be in the position of the mayor[7], &c., and thus, if they were the lords of the manor,
to have a veto upon the inclosure of the waste. The plaintiffs relied very much upon the following
fact, which I here embalm as a note, and append thereon a query:--During the Mayoralty of Mr.
Greet[8], a gentleman who died in 1829, a turbot was caught by a dredger on the Queenborough
oyster-grounds: this unlucky fish was immediately pounced upon by the Queenborough officials,
and seized for the mayor's behoof as his perquisite, à la sturgeon.

Query, a like instance?

The Jury, after two days' long sitting, decided that Queenborough was neither a manor nor a
reputed manor.

A. J. DUNKIN.

Dartford.

[Footnote 4: Parliamentary History, 1765.--On Wednesday, Dec. 6, 1654, an attempt was made
to disfranchise Queenborough: the then member, Mr. Garland, suddenly and jocularly moved the
Speaker that we give not any legacies before the Speaker was dead. This pleasant conceit so
took with the House, as, for that time, Queenborough was reprieved, but was voted for the future
to be dismembered, and to be added to the county.--Ap. Burton i. cxi. Archæological Mine, i.
12. Queenborough was one of the victims included in Schedule A of the act of parliament known
as "The Reform Bill."]

[Footnote 5: In our own day Cove has been called Queenstown in honour of Queen Victoria.]

[Footnote 6: Leeze-holders, a right of turning on the coming or Leeze (Celtic, Leswes) twenty-four
sheep, which of late years, by a bye-law, has been arranged to substitute either two horses
or three bullocks. A Leeze is supposed to contain about seven acres of land of herbage. The
common consists of about 240 acres, including roads.]

[Footnote 7: See Hogarth's Visit, &c. to Queenborough. A hearty laugh will repay the trouble.
The mayor was then a thatcher: the room remains as it did in Hogarth's day; and as Queenborough
was then, so it is now, one long street without any trade.]

