The curtains were not drawn and where the curve of the hill fell away the sky was faintly yellow;
some cold stars like points of ice pierced the higher blue; carelessly, as though with studied
indifference, flakes of snow fell, turning grey against the lamp-lit windows, then vanishing
utterly. Maggie, going to the window, saw a dark shapeless figure beyond the glass. For an
instant she was invaded by the terror of her surprised loneliness, then she remembered her
father and the warm kitchen, then realised that this figure in the dark must be her Uncle Mathew.

She went out into the hall, pushed back the stiff, clumsy handle of the door, and stepped on
to the gravel path. She called out, laughing:

"Come in! You frightened me out of my life."

As he came towards her she felt the mingled kindness and irritation that he always roused in
her. He stood in the light of the hall lamp, a fat man, a soft hat pushed to the back of his
head, a bag in one hand. His face was weak and good-tempered, his eyes had once been fine but
now they were dim and blurred; there were dimples in his fat cheeks; he wore on his upper lip
a ragged and untidy moustache and he had two indeterminate chins. His expression was mild,
kindly, now a little ashamed, now greatly indignant. It was a pity, as he often said, that
he had not more control over his feelings. Maggie saw at once that he was, as usual, a little
drunk.

"Well," she said. "Come in, Uncle. Father is in church, I think," she added.

Uncle Mathew stepped with careful deliberation into the hall, put his bag on a chair, and began
a long, rambling explanation.

"You know, Maggie, that I would have sent you a post card if I had had an idea, but, upon my
soul, there I was suddenly in Drymouth on important business. I thought to myself on waking
this morning--I took a room at the 'Three Tuns'--'Why, there are Charles and Maggie whom I
haven't seen for an age.' I'd have sent you a telegram but the truth is, my dear, that I didn't
want to spend a penny more than I must. Things haven't been going so well with me of late.
It's a long story. I want your father's advice. I've had the worst of luck and I could tell
you one or two things that would simply surprise you--but anyway, there it is. Just for a night
I'm sure you won't mind. To-morrow or the day after I must be back in town or this thing will
slip right through my fingers. These days one must be awake or one's simply nowhere."

He paused and nodded his head very solemnly at her, looking, as he did so, serious and important.

It was thus that he always appeared, "for one night only," but staying for weeks and weeks
in spite of the indignant protests of his brother Charles who had never liked him and grudged
the expense of his visits. Maggie herself took his appearance as she did everything else in
her life with good-tempered philosophy. She had an affection for her uncle; she wished that
he did not drink so much, but had he made a success of life she would not have cared for him
as she did. After all every one had their weaknesses ...

She steered her uncle into the dining-room and placed him on a chair beside the fire. In all
his movements he attempted restraints and dignity because he knew that he was drunk but hoped
that his niece, in spite of her long experience of him, would not perceive it. At the same
time he knew that she did perceive it and would perhaps scold him about it. This made him a
little indignant because, after all, he had only taken the tiniest drop--one drop at Drymouth,
another at Liskane station, and another at "The Hearty Cow" at Clinton St. Mary, just before
his start on his cold lonely walk to St. Dreot's. He hoped that he would prevent her criticism
by his easy pleasant talk, so on he chattered.

She sat down near him and continuing to sew smiled at him, wondered what there was for dinner
and the kind of mood that her father would be in when he found his dear brother here.

Maggie Cardinal, at the time, was nineteen years of age. She was neither handsome nor distinguished,
plain indeed, although her mild, good-natured eyes had in their light a quality of vitality
and interest that gave her personality; her figure was thick and square--she would be probably
stout one day. She moved like a man. Behind the mildness of her eyes there was much character
and resolve in her carriage, in the strong neck, the firm breasts, the mouth resolute and determined.
She had now the fine expectation of her youth, her health, her optimism, her ignorance of the
world. When these things left her she would perhaps be a yet plainer woman. In her dress she
was not clever. Her clothes were ugly with the coarse drab grey of their material and the unskilful
workmanship that had created them. And yet there would be some souls who would see in her health,
her youth, the kind sympathy of her eyes and mouth, the high nobility of her forehead from
which her hair was brushed back, an attraction that might hold them more deeply than an obvious
beauty.

Uncle Mathew although he was a silly man was one of these perceptive souls, and had he not
been compelled by his circumstances to think continually about himself, would have loved his
niece very dearly. As it was, he thought her a fine girl when he thought of her at all, and
wished her more success in life than her "poor old uncle" had had. He looked at her now across
the fireplace with satisfaction. She was something sure and pleasant in a world that swayed
and was uncertain. He was drunk enough to feel happy so long as he was not scolded. He dreaded
the moment when his brother Charles would appear, and he strove to arrange in his mind the
wise and unanswerable word with which he would defend himself, but his thoughts slipped just
as the firelight slipped and the floors with the old threadbare carpet.

Then suddenly the hall door opened with a jangle, there were steps in the hall, and Old Timmie
Carthewe the sexton appeared in the dining-room. He had a goat's face and a body like a hairpin.

"Rector's not been to service," he said. "There's Miss Dunnett and Mrs. Giles and the two Miss
Backshaws. I'm feared he's forgotten."

Maggie started up. Instantly to her mind came the memory of that fancied sound from her father's
room. She listened now, her head raised, and the two men, their eyes bleared but their noses
sniffing as though they were dogs, listened also. There were certain sounds, clocks ticking,
the bough scraping on the wall, a cart's echo on the frozen road, the maid singing far in the
depths of the house. Maggie nodded her head.

"I'll go and see," she said.

She went into the hall and stood again listening. Then she called, "Father! Father!" but there
was no answer. She had never in all her life been frightened by anything and she was not frightened
now; nevertheless, as she went up the stairs, she looked behind her to see whether any one
followed her.

She called again "Father!" then went to his door, pushed it open, and looked in. The room was
cold with a faint scent of tallow candle and damp.

In the twilight she saw her father's body lying like a shadow stretched right across the floor,
with the grey dirty fingers of one hand clenched.

After that events followed swiftly. Maggie herself had no time nor opportunity for any personal
emotion save a dumb kind of wonder that she did not feel more. But she saw all "through a glass
darkly." There had been first that moment when the sexton and Uncle Mathew, still like dogs
sniffing, had peered with their eyes through her father's door. Then there had been the summoning
of Dr. Bubbage from the village, his self-importance, his continual "I warned him. I warned
him. He can't say I didn't warn him," and then (very dim and far away) "Thank you, Miss Cardinal.
I think I will have a glass if you don't mind." There had been cook crying in the kitchen (her
red roses intended for Sunday must now be postponed) and the maid sniffing in the hall. There
had been Uncle Mathew, muddled and confused, but clinging to his one idea that "the best thing
you can do, my dear, is to send for your Aunt Anne." There had been the telegram dispatched
to Aunt Anne, and then after that the house had seemed quite filled with people--ladies who
had--wished to know whether they could help her in any way and even the village butcher who
was there for no reason but stood in the hall rubbing his hands on his thighs and sniffing.
All these persons Maggie surveyed through a mist. She was calm and collected and empty of all
personality; Maggie Cardinal, the real Maggie Cardinal, was away on a visit somewhere and would
not be back for a time or two.

Then suddenly as the house had filled so suddenly it emptied. Maggie found that she was desperately
tired. She went to bed and slept instantly. On waking next morning she was aware that it was
a most beautiful winter's day and that there was something strange in the air. There came to
her then very slowly a sense of her father. She saw him on the one side, persistently as she
had found him in his room, strange, shapeless, with a crumpled face and a dirty beard that
seemed to be more dead than the rest of him. On the other side she saw him as she had found
him in the first days of her consciousness of the world.

He must have been "jolly" then, large and strong, laughing often, tossing her, she remembered,
to the ceiling, his beard jet-black and his eyebrows bushy and overhanging. Once that vigour,
afterwards this horror. She shook away from her last vision of him but it returned again and
again, hanging about her over her shoulder like an ill-omened messenger. And all the life between
seemed to be suddenly wiped away as a sponge wipes figures off a slate. After the death of
her mother she had made the best of her circumstances. There had been many days when life had
been unpleasant, and in the last year, as his miserliness had grown upon him, his ill-temper
at any fancied extravagance had been almost that of an insane man, but Maggie knew very little
of the affairs of other men and it seemed to her that every one had some disadvantage with
which to grapple. She did not pretend to care for her father, she was very lonely because the
villagers hated him, but she had always made the best of everything because she had never had
an intimate friend to tell her that that was a foolish thing to do.

It was indeed marvellous how isolated her life had been; she knew simply nothing about the
world at all.

She could not pretend that she was sorry that her father had died; and yet she missed him because
she knew very well that she was now no one's business, that she was utterly and absolutely
alone in the universe. It might be said that she could not be utterly alone when she had her
Uncle Mathew, but, although she was ignorant of life, she knew her Uncle Mathew ... Nevertheless,
he did something to remove the sharp alarm of her sudden isolation. Upon the day after her
father's death he was at his very best, his kindest, and most gentle. He was rather pathetic,
having drunk nothing out of respect to the occasion; he felt, somewhere deep down in him, a
persistent exaltation that his brother Charles was dead, but he knew that it was not decent
to allow this feeling to conquer him and he was truly anxious to protect and comfort his niece
so well as he was able. Early in the afternoon he suggested that they should go for a walk.
Everything necessary had been done. An answer to their telegram had been received from his
sister Anne that she could not leave London until that night but would arrive at Clinton St.
Mary station at half-past nine to-morrow morning. That would be in good time for the funeral,
a ceremony that was to be conducted by the Rev. Tom Trefusis, the sporting vicar of Cator Hill,
the neighbouring parish.

The house now was empty and silent. They must escape from that figure, now decent, clean, and
solemn, lying upon the bed upstairs. Mathew took his niece by the hand and said:

"My dear, a little fresh air is the thing for both of us. It will cheer you up."

So they went out for a walk together. Maggie knew, with a deep and intimate experience, every
lane and road within twenty miles' radius of St. Dreot's, There was the high-road that went
through Gator Hill to Clinton and then to Polwint; here were the paths across the fields to
Lucent, the lanes that led to the valley of the Lisp, all the paths like spiders' webs through
Rothin Wood, from whose curve you could see Polchester, grey and white, with its red-brown
roofs and the spires of the Cathedral thrusting like pointing fingers into the heaven. It was
the Polchester View that she chose to-day, but as they started through the deep lanes down
the St. Dreot's hill she was startled and disturbed by the strange aspect which everything
wore to her. She had not as yet realised the great shock her father's death had been; she was
exhausted, spiritually and physically, in spite of the deep sleep of the night before. The
form and shape of the world was a little strained and fantastic, the colours uncertain, now
vivid, now vanishing, the familiar trees, hedges, clouds, screens, as it were, concealing some
scene that was being played behind them. But beyond and above all other sensations she was
conscious of her liberty. She struggled against this; she should be conscious, before everything,
of her father's loss. But she was not. It meant to her at present not so much the loss of a
familiar figure as the sudden juggling, by an outside future, of all the regular incidents
and scenes of her daily life, as at a pantomime one sees by a transformation of the scenery,
the tables, the chairs, and pictures the walls dance to an unexpected jig. She was free, free,
free--alone but free. What form her life would take she did not know, what troubles and sorrows
in the future there might be she did not care--to-morrow her life would begin.

Although unsentimental she was tender-hearted and affectionate, but now, for many years, her
life with her father had been a daily battle of ever-increasing anger and bitterness. It may
be that once he had loved her; that had been in those days when she was not old enough to love
him ... since she had known him he had loved only money. She would have loved him had he allowed
her, and because he did not she bore him no grudge. She had always regarded her life, sterile
and unprofitable as it was, with humour until now when, like a discarded dress, it had slipped
behind her. She did not see it, even now, with bitterness; there was no bitterness for anything
in her character.

As they walked Uncle Mathew was considering her for the first time. On the other occasions
when he had stayed in his brother's house he had been greatly occupied with his own plans--requests
for money (invariably refused) schemes for making money, plots to frighten his brother out
of one or other of his possessions. He had been frankly predatory, and that plain, quiet girl
his niece had been pleasant company but no more. Now she was suddenly of the first importance.
She would in all probability inherit a considerable sum. How much there might be in that black
box under the bed one could not say, but surely you could not be so relentless a miser for
so long a period without accumulating a very agreeable amount. Did the girl realise that she
would, perhaps, be rich? Uncle Mathew licked his lips with his tongue. So quiet and self-possessed
was she that you could not tell what she was thinking. Were she only pretty she might marry
anybody. As it was, with that figure ... But she was a good girl. Uncle Mathew felt kind and
tender-hearted towards her. He would advise her about life of which he had had a very considerable
experience, and of which, of course, she knew nothing. His heart was warm, although it would
have been warmer still had he been able to drink a glass of something before starting out.

"And what will you do now, my dear, do you think?" he asked.

They had left the deep lanes and struck across the hard-rutted fields. A thin powder of snow
lay upon the land, and under the yellow light of the winter sky the surface was blue, shadowed
with white patches where the snow had fallen more thickly. The trees and hedges were black
and hard against the white horizon that was tightly stretched like the paper of a Japanese
screen. The smell of burning wood was in the air, and once and again a rook slowly swung its
wheel, cutting the air as it flew. The cold was so pleasantly sharp that it was the best possible
thing for Uncle Mathew, who was accustomed to an atmosphere of hissing gas, unwashen glasses,
and rinds of cheese.

Maggie did not answer his question but herself asked one.

"Uncle Mathew, do you believe in religion?"

"Religion, my dear?" answered her uncle, greatly startled at so unusual a question. "What sort
of religion?"

"The kind of religion that father preached about every Sunday--the Christian religion."

"To tell you the truth, my dear," he answered confidentially, "I've never had much time to
think about it. With some men, you see, it's part of their lives, and with others--well, it
isn't. My lines never ran that way."

"Was father very religious when he was young?"

"No, I can't say that he was. But then we never got on, your father and I. Our lines didn't
run together at all. But I shouldn't have called him a religious man."

"Then all this time father has been lying?"

Her uncle gazed at her apprehensively. He did not wish to undermine her faith in her father
on the very day after his death, but he was so ignorant about her, her thoughts and beliefs
and desires, that he did not know what her idea of her father had been. His idea of him had
always been that he was a dirty, miserly scoundrel, but that was not quite the thing for a
daughter to feel, and there was an innocence and simplicity about Maggie that perplexed him.

"I can't truly say that I ever knew what your father's private feelings were. He never cared
for me enough to tell me. He may have been very religious in his real thoughts. We never discussed
such things."

Maggie turned round upon him.

"I know. You're pretending. You've said to yourself, 'I mustn't tell her what I think about
her father the very day after his death, that isn't a pleasant thing to do.' We've all got
to pretend that he was splendid. But he wasn't--never. Who can know it better than I? Didn't
he worry mother until she died? Didn't he lead me an awful life always, and aren't I delighted
now that he's dead? It's everything to me. I've longed for this day for years, and now we've
got to pretend that we're sorry and that it would be a good thing if he were alive. It wouldn't
be a good thing--it would be a bad thing for every one. He was a bad man and I hated him."

Then, quite suddenly, she cried. Turning away from her uncle she folded her face in her arms
like a small child and sobbed. Standing, looking at her bent shoulders, her square, ugly figure,
her shabby old hat with its dingy black ribbon, pushed a little to the side of her head, Uncle
Mathew thought that she was a most uncomprehensible girl. If she felt like that about her father
why should she cry; and if she cried she must surely have some affection for his memory. All
he could say was:

"There, there, my dear--Well, well. It's all right." He felt foolish and helpless.

