 Mary's, where she
was doubtless received as a guest in the mansion of the Proprietary, now the residence of young
Benedict Leonard and those of the family who had not accompanied Lord Baltimore to England.

Whilst Mrs. Talbot tarried here, the Cornet was busy in his preparations. He had brought the
Colonel's shallop from Elk River to the Patuxent, and was here concerting a plan to put the
little vessel under the command of some ostensible owner who might appear in the character
of its master to any over-curious or inopportune questioner. He had found a man exactly to
his hand in a certain Roger Skreene, whose name might almost be thought to be adopted for the
occasion and to express the part he had to act. He was what we may call the sloop's husband,
but was bound to do whatever Murray commanded, to ask no questions, and to be profoundly ignorant
of the real objects of the expedition. This pliant auxiliary had, like many thrifty--or more
probably thriftless--persons of that time, a double occupation. He was amphibious in his habits,
and lived equally on land and water. At home he was a tailor, and abroad a seaman, frequently
plying his craft as a skipper on the Bay, and sufficiently known in the latter vocation to
render his present employment a matter to excite no suspicious remark. It will be perceived
in the course of his present adventure that he was quite innocent of any avowed complicity
in the design which he was assisting.

Murray had a stout companion with him, a good friend to Talbot, probably one of the familiar
frequenters of the Manor House of New Connaught,--a bold fellow, with a hand and a heart both
ready for any perilous service. He may have been a comrade of the Cornet's in his troop. His
name was Hugh Riley,--a name that has been traditionally connected with dare-devil exploits
ever since the days of Dermot McMorrogh. There have been, I believe, but few hard fights in
the world, to which Irishmen have had anything to say, without a Hugh Riley somewhere in the
thickest part of them.

The preparations being now complete, Murray anchored his shallop near a convenient landing,--perhaps
within the Mattapony Creek.

In the dead of winter, about the 30th of January, 1685, Mrs. Talbot, with her servants, her
child, and nurse, set forth from the Proprietary residence in St. Mary's, to journey over to
the Patuxent,--a cold, bleak ride of fifteen miles. The party were all on horseback: the young
boy, perhaps, wrapped in thick coverings, nestling in the arms of one of the men: Mrs. Talbot
braving the sharp wind in hood and cloak, and warmed by her own warm heart, which beat with
a courageous pulse against the fierce blasts that swept and roared across her path. Such a
cavalcade, of course, could not depart from St. Mary's without observation at any season; but
at this time of the year so unusual a sight drew every inhabitant to the windows, and set in
motion a current of gossip that bore away all other topics from every fireside. The gentlemen
of the Council, too, doubtless had frequent conference with the unhappy wife of their colleague,
during her sojourn in the Government House, and perhaps secretly counselled with her on her
adventure. Whatever outward or seeming pretext may have been adopted for this movement, we
can hardly suppose that many friends of the Proprietary were ignorant of its object. We have,
indeed, evidence that the enemies of the Proprietary charged the Council with a direct connivance
in the scheme of Talbot's escape, and made it a subject of complaint against Lord Baltimore
that he afterwards approved of it.

Upon her arrival at the Patuxent, Mrs. Talbot went immediately on board of the sloop, with
her attendants. There she found the friendly cornet and his comrade, Hugh Riley, on the alert
to distinguish their loyalty in her cause. The amphibious Master Skreene was now at the head
of a picked crew,--the whole party consisting of five stout men, with the lady, her child,
and nurse. All the men but Skreene were sons of the Emerald Isle,--of a race whose historical
boast is the faithfulness of their devotion to a friend in need and their chivalrous courtesy
to woman, but still more their generous and gallant championship of woman in distress. On this
occasion this national sentiment was enhanced when it was called into exercise in behalf of
the sorrowful lady of the chief of their border settlements.

They set sail from the Patuxent on Saturday, the 31st of January. On Wednesday, the fifth day
afterwards, they landed on the southern bank of the Rappahannock, at the house of Mr. Ralph
Wormeley, near the mouth of the river. This long voyage of five days over so short a distance
would seem to indicate that they departed from the common track of navigation to avoid notice.

The next morning Mr. Wormeley furnished them horses and a servant, and Mrs. Talbot, with the
nurse and child, under the conduct of Cornet Murray, set out for Gloucester,--a distance of
some twenty miles. The day following,--that is, on Friday,--the servant returned with the horses,
having left the party behind. Saturday passed and part of Sunday, when, in the evening, Mrs.
Talbot and the Cornet reappeared at Mr. Wormeley's. The child and nurse had been left behind;
and this was accounted for by Mrs. Talbot's saying she had left the child with his father,
to remain with him until she should return to Virginia. I infer that the child was introduced
into this adventure to give some seeming to the visit which might lull suspicion and procure
easier access to the prisoner; and the leaving of him in Gloucester proves that Mrs. Talbot
had friends, and probably confederates there, to whose care he was committed.

As soon as the party had left the shallop, upon their first arrival at Mr. Wormeley's, the
wily Master Skreene discovered that he had business at a landing farther up the river; and
thither he straightway took his vessel,--Wormeley's being altogether too suspicious a place
for him to frequent. And now, when Mrs. Talbot had returned to Wormeley's, Roger's business
above, of course, was finished, and he dropped down again opposite the house on Monday evening;
and the next morning took the Cornet and the lady on board. Having done this, he drew out into
the river. This brings us to Tuesday, the 10th of February.

As soon as Mrs. Talbot was once more embarked in the shallop, Murray and Riley (I give Master
Skreene's own account of the facts, as I find it in his testimony subsequently taken before
the Council) made a pretext to go on shore, taking one of the men with them. They were going
to look for a cousin of this man,--so they told Skreene,--and besides that, intended to go
to a tavern to buy a bottle of rum: all of which Skreene gives the Council to understand he
verily believed to be the real object of their visit.

The truth was, that, as soon as Murray and Riley and their companion had reached the shore,
they mounted on horseback and galloped away in the direction of Gloucester prison. From the
moment they disappeared on this gallop until their return, we have no account of what they
did. Roger Skreene's testimony before the Council is virtuously silent on this point.

After this party was gone, Mrs. Talbot herself took command, and, with a view to more privacy,
ordered Roger to anchor near the opposite shore of the river, taking advantage of the concealment
afforded by a small inlet on the northern side. Skreene says he did this at her request, because
she expressed a wish to taste some of the oysters from that side of the river, which he, with
his usual facility, believed to be the only reason for getting into this unobserved harbor;
and, merely to gratify this wish, he did as she desired.

The day went by slowly to the lady on the water. Cold February, a little sloop, and the bleak
roadstead at the mouth of the Rappahannock brought but few comforts to the anxious wife, who
sat muffled upon that unstable deck, watching the opposite shore, whilst the ceaseless plash
of the waves breaking upon her ear numbered the minutes that marked the weary hours, and the
hours that marked the still more weary day. She watched for the party who had galloped into
the sombre pine-forest that sheltered the road leading to Gloucester, and for the arrival of
that cousin of whom Murray spoke to Master Skreene.

But if the time dragged heavily with her, it flew with the Cornet and his companions. We cannot
tell when the twenty miles to Gloucester were thrown behind them, but we know that the whole
forty miles of going and coming were accomplished by sunrise the next morning. For the deposition
tells us that Roger Skreene had become very impatient at the absence of his passengers,--at
least, so he swears to the Council; and he began to think, just after the sun was up, that,
as they had not returned, they must have got into a revel at the tavern, and forgotten themselves;
which careless demeanor of theirs made him think of recrossing the river and of going ashore
to beat them up; when, lo! all of a sudden, he spied a boat coming round the point within which
he lay. And here arises a pleasant little dramatic scene, of some interest to our story.

Mrs. Talbot had been up at the dawn, and watched upon the deck, straining her sight, until
she could see no more for tears; and at length, unable to endure her emotion longer, had withdrawn
to the cabin. Presently Skreene came hurrying down to tell her that the boat was coming,--and,
what surprised him, there were four persons in it. "Who is this fourth man?" he asked her,--with
his habitual simplicity, "and how are we to get him back to the shore again?"--a very natural
question for Roger to ask, after all that had passed in his presence! Mrs. Talbot sprang to
her feet,--her eyes sparkling, as she exclaimed, with a cheery voice, "Oh, his cousin has come!"--and
immediately ran upon the deck to await the approaching party. There were pleasant smiling faces
all around, as the four men came over the sloop's side; and although the testimony is silent
as to the fact, there might have been some little kissing on the occasion. The new-comer was
in a rough dress, and had the exterior of a servant; and our skipper says in his testimony,
that "Mrs. Talbot spoke to him in the Irish language": very volubly, I have no doubt, and that
much was said that was never translated. When they came to a pause in this conversation, she
told Skreene, by way of interpretation, "he need not be uneasy about the stranger's going on
shore, nor delay any longer, as this person had made up his mind to go with them to Maryland."

So the boat was made fast, the anchor was weighed, the sails were set, and the little sloop
bent to the breeze and kissed the wave, as she rounded the headland and stood up the Bay, with
Colonel George Talbot encircling with his arm his faithful wife, and with the gallant Cornet
Murray sitting at his side.

They had now an additional reason for caution against search. So Murray ordered the skipper
to shape his course over to the eastern shore, and to keep in between the islands and the main.
This is a broad circuit outside of their course; but Roger is promised a reward by Mrs. Talbot,
to compensate him for his loss of time; and the skipper is very willing. They had fetched a
compass, as the Scripture phrase is, to the shore of Dorset County, and steered inside of Hooper's
Island, into the month of Hungary River. Here it was part of the scheme to dismiss the faithful
Roger from further service. With this view they landed on the island and went to Mr. Hooper's
house, where they procured a supply of provisions, and immediately afterwards reembarked,--having
clean forgotten Roger, until they were once more under full sail up the Bay, and too far advanced
to turn back!

The deserted skipper bore his disappointment like a Christian; and being asked, on Hungary
River, by a friend who met him there, and who gave his testimony before the Council, "What
brought him there?" he replied, "He had been left on the island by Madam Talbot." And to another,
"Where Madam Talbot was?" he answered, "She had gone up the Bay to her own house." Then, to
a third question, "How he expected his pay?" he said, "He was to have it of Colonel Darnall
and Major Sewall; and that Madam Talbot had promised him a hogshead of tobacco extra, for putting
ashore at Hooper's Island." The last question was, "What news of Talbot?" and Roger's answer,
"He had not been within twenty miles of him; neither did he know anything about the Colonel"
!! But, on further discourse, he let fall, that "he knew the Colonel never would come to a
trial,"--"that he knew this; but neither man, woman, nor child should know it, but those who
knew it already."

So Colonel George Talbot is out of the hands of the proud Lord Effingham, and up the Bay with
his wife and friends; and is buffeting the wintry head-winds in a long voyage to the Elk River,
which, in due time, he reaches in safety.

CHAPTER IX.

TROUBLES IN COUNCIL.

Let us now turn back to see what is doing at St. Mary's.

On the 17th of February comes to the Council a letter from Lord Effingham. It has the superscription,
"These, with the greatest care and speed." It is dated on the 11th of February from Poropotanck,
an Indian point on the York River above Gloucester, and memorable as being in the neighborhood
of the spot where, some sixty years before these events, Pocahontas saved the life of that
mirror of chivalry, Captain John Smith.

The letter brings information "that last night [the 10th of February] Colonel Talbot escaped
out of prison,"--a subsequent letter says, "by the corruption of his guard,"--and it is full
of admonition, which has very much the tone of command, urging all strenuous efforts to recapture
him, and particularly recommending a proclamation of "hue and cry."

And now, for a month, there is a great parade in Maryland of proclamation, and hue and cry,
and orders to sheriffs and county colonels to keep a sharp look-out everywhere for Talbot.
But no person in the Province seems to be anxious to catch him, except Mr. Nehemiah Blakiston,
the Collector, and a few others, who seem to have been ministering to Lord Effingham's spleen
against the Council for not capturing him. His Lordship writes several letters of complaint
at the delay and ill success of this pursuit, and some of them in no measured terms of courtesy.
"I admire," he says in one of these, "at any slow proceedings in service wherein his Majesty
is so concerned, and hope you will take off all occasions of future trouble, both unto me and
you, of this nature, by manifesting yourselves zealous for his Majesty's service." They answer,
that all imaginable care for the apprehending of Talbot has been taken by issuing proclamations,
etc.,--but all have proved ineffectual, because Talbot upon all occasions flies and takes refuge
"in the remotest parts of the woods and deserts of this Province."

At this point we get some traces of Talbot. There is a deposition of Robert Kemble of Cecil
County, and some other papers, that give us a few particulars by which I am enabled to construct
my narrative.

