'On his departure, I paid the bill, which both my friends had overlooked, then walked out and
seated myself on the Alameda, which at that hour was thronged with promenaders. Isolated, buried
in thought, in the midst of that teeming throng, the various episodes in the drama of which
my mysterious neighbor was the principal character, passed before my mind. I again and again
reviewed the strange events which, by some freak of fortune, I had been a witness to. What
was the basis on which my friend, with two sets of names, founded his dream of inexhaustible
wealth, this mission he had intrusted to Pepito? What the mission which the agent laughed at,
and which to gain a clue to, others were tempting him with glittering bribes? And again, why
the deceit practiced on Pepito, by assuming the guise of a doctor? Each of these facts was
a text on which I piled a mountain of speculation.

'Vexed and annoyed at finding myself becoming entangled in this web of mystery, as well as
piqued at my failure to unravel it, I determined to avoid all further connection with any of
the actors; and full of this resolve, I wended my way homeward, to have a final and decisive
interview with Mr. Livermore.

'The worthy Donna Teresa Lopez confronted me as I entered the inner door:

''Plenty of news, is there not?' she asked; 'I heard a good deal of squabbling, last night;
that man in the cloak was noisy.'

''Yes; they had an interesting discussion.'

''You can not make me believe that was all. Discussion, indeed! When there is a pretty woman
in the case, and two men talk as loudly as they did, it generally ends in a serious kind of
discussion. 'When love stirs the fire, anger makes the blood boil.' Tell me, now, will they
fight here, in the Señor Pride's room?'

'This question, which Donna Teresa put in the most matter-of-fact sort of way, staggered me
considerably, and confirmed me in the resolution to avoid the whole business.

''I sincerely trust, Señora, that such an event is not probable. On what do you base your supposition?'

''There is nothing so very astounding in rivals fighting; but it is all the same to me. I only
asked that I might take precautions.'

''Precautions! what, inform the police?'

''No, no! I thought it might be as well to take down the new curtains--the blood might spoil them.'

'Need I say I terminated my interview with my hostess, more impressed with admiration of her
business qualities than of her sympathetic virtues? But let me do the poor woman justice; life
is held so cheap, and the knife acts so large a part in Mexico, that violence and sudden death
produce a mere transient effect.

IX.

'Instead of going to my own apartments, I went direct to Mr. Livermore's, intending thus to
show him that I wished no longer to be looked upon as the man in the next room.

''We were dying with anxiety to see you,' he said, as I entered; 'walk into the other room,
you will find Adéle there.'

''Well, Mr. Rideau,' said she, with intense anxiety visible on her countenance, 'what passed
between those two men?'

''Little of importance. Pedro offered Pepito four hundred dollars if he would divulge the particulars
of his journey; to which offer Pepito has acceded. That is about all.'

'I was far from anticipating the effect my answer would produce on my hearers. They were overwhelmed--thunderstruck.
Adéle was the first to recover.

''Fool! fool that I was,' she exclaimed, 'why did I select in such an enterprise a man worn
down by sickness and disease?'

'The look she cast on Arthur, rapid as it was, was so full of menace and reproach, that it
startled me.

''Well, Arthur,' she said, laying her hand on his arm; 'do you feel ill again?'

'Roused by the sound of her voice, Arthur placed his hand on his heart, and mutely plead excuse
for the silence which his sufferings imposed on him.

'As for me, I spoke no word, but mentally consigned my mysterious neighbors to a distant port,
whence consignments never return.

''My dear sir,' I replied at length, 'Pepito's treachery, which appears so deeply to affect
you, is not yet carried into execution, it is only contemplated. I will give you word for word
what transpired.'

'When I had concluded my narrative, to which they listened with breathless attention, Adéle
exclaimed:

''Our hopes are not yet crushed, the case is not utterly desperate; but alas! it is evident
our secret is suspected, if not known. Arthur,' she continued, 'now is the time to display
all our energy. We have some enemy to dread, as I have long suspected. If we do not at once
steal a march on him, then farewell forever to all our dreams of happiness, of wealth, or even
of subsistence.'

''Sir,' said she, again addressing me; 'your honor alone has kept you in ignorance of our secret.
You could easily have tempted and corrupted Pepito. We prefer you should learn it from us rather
than from an accidental source. We merely request your word of honor that you will not use
it to your own advantage, without our joint consent, nor in any way thwart our plans.'

''I am deeply sensible, madame, of the confidence you repose in me; but I must beg you will
allow me to remain in ignorance.'

''You refuse, then, to give us the promise?' exclaimed Adéle, 'I see it all! you will thwart
us; you would preserve your liberty of action without forfeiting your word.'

'If you had known me longer, such a suspicion would not have crossed your mind. However, as
I have no other means of proving it unjust, I will give the pledge you desire, I am now ready
to hear whatever you have to communicate.'

'Mr. Livermore resumed the conversation:

''The secret which Adéle imparted to me will, I dare say, appear at first very extravagant,
but before you laugh at it, give me time to explain. It is the existence of a marvelous opal
mine in the interior; the precise location of which is known to no one save Adéle and myself.'

'In spite of the greatest effort, I could not suppress a smile of incredulity, at this announcement.
Mexico is so full of strange stories of fabulous mines, that this wondrous tale of opals looked
to me like some new confidence game, and I felt sure my neighbors were duped or else trying
to dupe me.

''Oh! I see you think we are deceived?'

''I admit,' I replied, 'it strikes me as possible that you have been the victims of some crafty
scheme. Did you hear of this mine before or since your arrival in Mexico?'

''Before we left New-Orleans.'

''And yet it is not known to the natives?'

''It was from a Mexican we had our information.'

''Why did not this Mexican himself take advantage of it?'

''He could not, for he was banished. He is now dead. But what do you think of these specimens?'

'He took from a drawer ten or twelve opals of rare size and brilliancy. I examined them with
care; they were, beyond all doubt, of very considerable value. My incredulity gradually gave
way to amazement.

''Are you certain these opals really came from the mine of which you speak?'

''Nothing can be more certain; you saw Pepito hand me a package; you heard his remark that
he could have brought a mule-load; these are a few of what he did bring.'

''This mine then really exists?' I said, my incredulity giving way to the most ardent curiosity.

''Really exists! yes, my friend; if you listen, I will dispel all doubt of that.'

X.

''On arriving in this country, my first step was to procure a guide and the necessary equipage
for reaching the opal mine. Although I felt sure of its existence, I could not dispel the fear
that the story of its marvelous richness would prove false. Without loss of time, I started;
for to me it was a question of life and death. I had, however, barely accomplished a third
of the journey, when I was prostrated by fever. The fatigue of traveling in the interior of
this magnificent but wretched country, combined with excitement and anxiety, preyed upon my
mind, and brought on an illness, from which at one time I gave up all hope of recovering. I
was compelled to return to Vera Cruz. The doctors were all of the opinion that several months
of perfect repose would be necessary before I could undertake another such journey. Several
months--oh! how those words fell on my ears; they sounded like the knell of all my hopes. A
thousand expedients floated through my brain, and in adopting the course I eventually did,
time alone will prove whether I followed the promptings of a good or evil genius. One evening,
I explained to my attendant that I was a medical man, deeply interested in botanical and mineralogical
discoveries; that my object in undertaking my recent journey was to collect certain rare herbs
and a singular description of shell. I laid peculiar stress on the herbs, and added in relation
to the shells, that I merely wanted a few specimens, as they were rare in my country. My attendant
at once proffered his services, to go in search of them. I appeared at first to attach but
little importance to his offer; but as he renewed it whenever the subject was alluded to, I
at last employed him. The mine is situated on the margin of a little brook. One day's work
of an active man will turn the stream into a fresh channel, and a few inches beneath its bed
will be found, mixed with the damp sand and loam, the shells, which, when polished, form the
opal. I gave my servant the needful information as to localities and landmarks, and promised
him a gratuity of a hundred dollars over and above his wages, in case he succeeded. Having
given him instructions, I retained his services until I reached this city, where I determined
to await his return, it being more healthy than Vera Cruz. Having selected my lodgings and
given him the pass-word by which alone a stranger could obtain admittance to me, with an anxious
heart I dispatched him on the mission.

''For three months I had no tidings of him; night and day, I was the prey of doubt and fear.
No words can portray the agony of suspense that I endured; the hours seemed days, the days
months, and the bitterness of years was crowded into that short interval. At last, thanks be
to heaven, my messenger returned.'

''Do you mean Pepito?' I exclaimed.

''The very man,' replied Arthur; 'his journey was successful. You have seen the specimens he
brought. I was intoxicated with delight; but Adéle did not share my joy. Nature has given woman
a faculty of intuition denied to man. Alas! Adéle's presentiment has been verified; your account
of the interview between Pepito and his friend proves her fears were well-grounded.'

''In what way?'

''In this way; it shows we have an enemy who has an inkling of our secret, and is striving
to snatch the prize from us. What course to take I am at a loss to know. Adéle advises to make
sure of Pepito, at any price.'

''And that strikes me as being your surest if not your only course.'

''Yes, the surest; but how to make sure of him?'

''By outbidding your competitors, and proving to him that in adhering to you he is best serving
his own interests.'

''But he is base enough to take bribes from both sides, and betray each.'

''Oh! that I were a man!' exclaimed Adéle, 'this fellow is the only one who knows our secret.
One man ought not to stand in fear of another. Only one man crosses your path, Arthur.'

''Unless I murder him, how can he be silenced?'

''Murder him! It is not murder to kill a robber. Were I a man, I would not hesitate how to act.'

''The anxiety of Pedro,' I said, 'indicates you have an enemy. Have you any idea who he is?'

''I believe,' said Adéle, 'that I know him.'

''Are you sure there is only one?'

