Touching gentians, I have not examined your specimen yet, but it certainly did not look like
Andrewsii. You talk of having acaulis in your garden. That is one of the species I worked out
most carefully at Arolla, but its flowering time was almost over, and I only got two full-blown
specimens to work at. If you have any in flower and don't mind sacrificing one with a bit of
the rhizoma, and would put it in spirit for me, I could settle one or two points still wanting.
Whisky will do, and you will be all the better for not drinking the whisky!

The distributional facts, when you work them in connection with morphology, are lovely. We
put up with Donnelly on our way here. He has taken a cottage at Felday, eleven miles from hence,
in lovely country--on lease. I shall have to set up a country residence some day, but as all
my friends declare their own locality best, I find a decision hard. And it is a bore to be
tied to one place.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

4 Marlborough Place, October 20, 1886.

My dear Hooker,

I wish you would not mind the trouble of looking through the enclosed chapter which I have
written at F. Darwin's request, and tell me what you think of it. F.D. thinks I am hard upon
the "Quarterly Article," but I read it a fresh and it is absolutely scandalous. The anonymous
vilifiers of the present day will be none the worse for being reminded that they may yet hang
in chains...

It occurs to me that it might be well to add a paragraph or two about the two chief objections
made formerly and now to Darwin, the one, that it is introducing "chance" as a factor in nature,
and the other that it is atheistic.

Both assertions are utter bosh. None but parsons believe in "chance"; and the philosophical
difficulties of Theism now are neither greater nor less than they have been ever since theism
was invented.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

[The following letter to Mr. Edmund Gosse, who, just before, had been roughly handled in the
"Quarterly Review," doubtless owed some of its vigour to these newly revived memories of the
"Quarterly" attack on Darwin. But while the interest of the letter lies in a general question
of literary ethics, the proper methods and limits of anonymous criticism, it must be noted
that in this particular case its edge was turned by the fact that immediately afterwards, the
critic proceeded to support his criticisms elsewhere uder his own name:--]

October 22, 1886.

Dear Sir,

I beg leave to offer you my best thanks for your letter to the "Athenaeum," which I have just
read, and to congratulate you on the force and completeness of your answer to your assailant.

It is rarely worth while to notice criticism, but when a good chance of exposing one of these
anonymous libellers who disgrace literature occurs, it is a public duty to avail oneself of it.

Oddly enough, I have recently been performing a similar "haute oeuvre." The most violent, base,
and ignorant of all the attacks on Darwin at the time of the publication of the "Origin of
Species" appeared in the "Quarterly Review" of that time; and I have built the reviewer a gibbet
as high as Haman's.

All good men and true should combine to stop this system of literary moonlighting.

I am yours very faithfully,

T.H. Huxley.

[On the same date appeared his letter to the "Pall Mall Gazette," which was occasioned by the
perversion of the new Chair of English Literature at Oxford to "Middle English" philology:--]

I fully agree with you that the relation of our Universities to the study of English literature
is a matter of great public importance; and I have more than once taken occasion to express
my conviction--Firstly, that the works of our great English writers are pre-eminently worthy
of being systematically studied in our schools and universities as literature; and secondly,
that the establishment of professional chairs of philology, under the name of literature, may
be a profit to science, but is really a fraud practised upon letters.

That a young Englishman may be turned out of one of our universities, "epopt and perfect,"
so far as their system takes him, and yet ignorant of the noble literature which has grown
up in those islands during the last three centuries, no less than of the development of the
philosophical and political ideas which have most profoundly influenced modern civilisation,
is a fact in the history of the nineteenth century which the twentieth will find hard to believe;
though, perhaps, it is not more incredible than our current superstition that whoso wishes
to write and speak English well should mould his style after the models furnished by classical
antiquity. But still I mark among distinguished contemporary speakers and writers of English,
saturated with antiquity, not a few to whom, it seems to me, the study of Hobbes might have
taught dignity; of Swift, concision and clearness; of Goldsmith and Defoe, simplicity.

Well, among a hundred young men whose university career is finished, is there one whose attention
has ever been directed by his literary instructors to a page of Hobbes, or Swift, or Goldsmith,
or Defoe? In my boyhood we were familiar with "Robinson Crusoe," "The Vicar of Wakefield,"
and "Gulliver's Travels"; and though the mysteries of "Middle English" were hidden from us,
my impression is we ran less chance of learning to write and speak the "middling English" of
popular orators and headmasters than if we had been perfect in such mysteries and ignorant
of those three masterpieces. It has been the fashion to decry the eighteenth century, as young
fops laugh at their fathers. But we were there in germ; and a "Professor of Eighteenth Century
History and Literature" we knew his business might tell young Englishmen more of that which
it is profoundly important they should know, but which at present remains hidden from them,
than any other instructor; and, incidentally, they would learn to know good English when they
see or hear it--perhaps even to discriminate between slipshod copiousness and true eloquence,
and that alone would be a great gain.

[As for the incitement to answer Mr. Lilly, Mr. Spencer writes from Brighton on November 3:--

I have no doubt your combative instincts have been stirred within you as you read Mr. Lilly's
article, "Materialism and Morality," in which you and I are dealt with after the ordinary fashion
popular with the theologians, who practically say, "You SHALL be materialists whether you like
it or not." I should not be sorry if you yielded to those promptings of your combative instinct.
Now that you are a man of leisure there is no reason why you should not undertake any amount
of fighting, providing always that you can find foemen worthy of your steel.

I remember that last year you found intellectual warfare good for your health, so I have no
qualms of conscience in making the suggestion.

To this he replies on the 7th:--]

Your stimulation of my combative instincts is downright wicked. I will not look at the "Fortnightly"
article lest I succumb to temptation. At least not yet. The truth is that these cursed irons
of mine, that have always given me so much trouble, will put themselves in the fire, when I
am not thinking about them. There are three or four already.

[On November 21 Mr. Spencer sends him more proofs of his autobiography, dealing with his early
life:--

See what it is to be known as an omnivorous reader--you get no mercy shown you. A man who is
ready for anything, from the fairy tale to a volume of metaphysics, is naturally one who will
make nothing of a fragment of a friend's autobiography!

To this he replies on the 25th:--]

4 Marlborough Place, November 25, 1886.

My dear Spencer,

In spite of all prohibition I must write to you about two things. First, as to the proof returned
herewith--I really have no criticisms to make (miracles, after all may not be incredible).
I have read your account of your boyhood with great interest, and I find nothing there which
does not contribute to the understanding of the man. No doubt about the truth of evolution
in your own case.

Another point which has interested me immensely is the curious similarity to many recollections
of my own boyish nature which I find, especially in the matter of demanding a reason for things
and having no respect for authority.

But I was more docile, and could remember anything I had a mind to learn, whether it was rational
or irrational, only in the latter case I hadn't the mind.

But you were infinitely better off than I in the matter of education. I had two years of a
Pandemonium of a school (between 8 and 10) and after that neither help nor sympathy in any
intellectual direction till I reached manhood. Good heavens! if I had had a father and uncle
who troubled themselves about my education as yours did about your training, I might say as
Bethell said of his possibilities had he come under Jowett, "There is no knowing to what eminence
I might not have attained." Your account of them gives me the impression that they were remarkable
persons. Men of that force of character, if they had been less wise and self-restrained, would
have played the deuce with the abnormal chicken hatched among them.

The second matter is that your diabolical plot against Lilly has succeeded--vide the next number
of the Fortnightly. ["Science and Morals" "Collected Essays" 9 117.] I was fool enough to read
his article, and the rest followed. But I do not think I should have troubled myself if the
opportunity had not been good for clearing off a lot of old scores.

The bad weather for the last ten days has shown me that I want screwing up, and I am off to
Ilkley on Saturday for a week or two. Ilkley Wells House will be my address. I should like
to know that you are picking up again.

Ever yours very faithfully,

T.H. Huxley.

[And again on December 13:--]

My dear Spencer,

I am very glad to have news of you which on the whole is not unsatisfactory. Your conclusion
as to the doctors is one I don't mind telling you in confidence I arrived at some time ago...

I am glad you liked my treatment of Mr. Lilly...I quite agree with you that the thing was worth
doing for the sake of the public.

I have in hand another bottle of the same vintage about Modern Realism and the abuse of the
word Law, suggested by a report I read the other day of one of Liddon's sermons. ["Pseudo-Scientific
Realism" "Collected Essays" 4 59.]

The nonsense these great divines talk when they venture to meddle with science is really appalling.

Don't be alarmed about the history of Victorian science. [See above.] I am happily limited
to the length of a review article or thereabouts, and it is (I am happy to say it is nearly
done) more of an essay on the history of science, bringing out the broad features of the contrast
between past and present, than the history itself. It seemed to me that this was the only way
of dealing with such a subject in a book intended for the general public.

[The article "Science and Morals" was not only a satisfaction to himself, but a success with
the readers of the "Fortnightly." To his wife he writes:--]

December 2.

Have you had the "Fortnightly"? How does my painting of the Lilly look?

December 8.

Harris...says that my article "simply made the December number," which pretty piece of gratitude
means a lively sense of favours to come.

December 13.

I had a letter from Spencer yesterday chuckling over the success of his setting me on Lilly.

[Ilkley had a wonderful effect upon him.] "It is quite absurd," [he writes after 24 hours there,]
"but I am wonderfully better already." [His regimen was of the simplest, save perhaps on one
point.] "Clark told me," [he says with the utmost gravity,] "always to drink tea and eat hot
cake at 4.30. I have persevered, however against my will, and last night had no dreams, but
slept like a top." [Two hours' writing in the morning were followed by two hours' sharp walking;
in the afternoon he first took two hours' walking or strolling if the weather were decent;]
"then Clark's prescription diligently taken" [(i.e. tea and a pipe) and a couple of hours more
writing; after dinner reading and to bed before eleven.]

I am working away (he writes) in a leisurely comfortable manner at my chapter for Ward's Jubilee
book, and have got the first few pages done, which is always my greatest trouble.

December 8.

...Canon Milman wrote to me to come to the opening of the New Buildings for Sion College, which
the Prince is going to preside over on the 15th. I had half a mind to accept, if only for the
drollery of finding myself among a solemn convocation of the city clergy. However, I thought
it would be opening the floodgates, and I prudently declined.

[One more letter may perhaps be quoted as illustrating the clearness of vision in administrative
matters which made it impossible for him to sit quietly by and see a tactical blunder being
committed, even though his formal position might not seem to warrant his interference. This
is his apologia for such a step.]

December 16, 1886.

My dear Foster,

On thinking over this morning's Committee work [Some Committee of the Royal Society.], it strikes
my conscience that being neither President or Chairman nor officer I took command of the boat
in a way that was hardly justifiable.

But it occurred to me that our sagacious -- for once was going astray and playing into --'s
hands, without clearly seeing what he was doing, and I be thought me of "salus Societatis suprema
lex," and made up my mind to stop the muddle we were getting into at all costs. I hope he was
not disgusted nor you either. X. ought to have cut in, but he did not seem inclined to do so.

I am clearly convinced it was the right thing to do--anyhow.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

[The chronicle of the year may fitly close with a letter from Ilkley to Dr. Dohrn, apropos
of his recommendation of a candidate for a biological professorship. The] "honest sixpence
got by hard labour," [refers to a tour in the Highlands which he had once taken with Dr. Dohrn,
when, on a rough day, they were being rowed across Loch Leven to Mary Stuart's castle. The
boatman, unable to make head single-handed against the wind, asked them each to take an oar;
but when they landed and Huxley tendered the fare, the honest fellow gave him back two sixpences,
saying, "I canna tak' it: you have wrocht as hard as I." Each took a coin; and Huxley remarked
that this was the first sixpence he had earned by manual labour. Dr. Dohrn, I believe, still
carries his sixpence in memory of the occasion.]

Wells House, Ilkley, Yorkshire, December 1, 1886.

My dear Dohrn,

You see by my address that I am en retraite, for a time. As good catholics withdraw from the
world now and then for the sake of their souls--so I, for the sake of my body (and chiefly
of my liver) have retired for a fortnight or so to the Yorkshire moors--the nearest place to
London where I can find dry air 1500 feet above the sea, and the sort of uphill exercise which
routs out all the unoxygenated crannies of my organism. Hard frost has set in, and I had a
walk over the moorland which would have made all the blood of the Ost-see pirates--which I
doubt not you have inherited--alive, and cleared off the fumes of that detestable Capua to
which you are condemned. I should like to have seen the nose of one of your Neapolitan nobilissimes
after half-an-hour's exposure to the north wind, clear and sharp as a razor, which very likely
looked down on Loch Leven a few hours ago.

Ah well! "fuimus"--I am amused at the difficulty you find in taking up the position of a "grave
and reverend senior"; because I can by no means accustom myself to the like dignity. In spite
of my grey hairs "age hath not cooled the Douglas blood" altogether, and I have a gratifying
sense that (liver permitting) I am still capable of much folly. All this, however, has not
much to do with poor Dr. -- to whom, I am sorry to say, your letter could do no good, as it
arrived after my colleagues and I had settled the business.

But there were a number of strong candidates who had not much chance. If it is open to me to
serve him hereafter, however, your letter will be of use to him, for I know you do not recommend
men lightly.

After some eighteen months of misery--the first thing that did me any good was coming here.
But I was completely set up by six or seven weeks at Arolla in the Valais. The hotel was 6400
feet up, and the wife and daughters and I spent most of our time in scrambling about the 2000
feet between that and the snow. Six months ago I had made up my mind to be an invalid, but
at Arolla I walked as well as I did when you and I made pilgrimages--and earned the only honest
sixpence (I, at any rate) ever got for hard labour. Three months in London brought me down
again, so I came here to be "mended."

You know English literature so well that perhaps you have read Wordsworth's "White Doe of Rylstone."
I am in that country, within walk of Bolton Abbey.

Please remember me very kindly to the Signora--and thank her for copying the letter in such
a charmingly legible hand. I wish mine were like it.

If I am alive we shall go to Arolla next summer. Could we not meet there? It is a fair half-way.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.