"I guess not," Melissa answered. "No such luck any more. I'll have to go back again to the
store as usual."

"The store!" Lucy repeated, bewildered. "I --I don't quite understand you."

"Well, the shop, I presume you'd call it," Melissa answered, smiling. "My father's gotten a
book-store in Kansas City, and before I went into the post-office I helped him at the counter;
in fact, I was his saleswoman."

"I assure you, Vernon," Lucy remarked, in our berth that night, "if an Englishwoman had said
it to me, I'd have been obliged to apologise to her for having forced her to confess it, and
I don't know what way I should ever have looked to hide my face while she was talking about
it. But with Melissa it's all so different somehow. She spoke as if it was the most natural
thing on earth for her father to keep a shop, and she didn't seem the least little bit in the
world ashamed of it, either."

"Why should she?" I answered, with my masculine bluntness. But that was perhaps a trifle too
advanced for Lucy. Melissa was exercising a widening influence on my wife's point of view with
astonishing rapidity; but still, a perfect lady must always draw a line somewhere.

All the way across, indeed, Melissa's lively talk was a constant delight and pleasure to every
one of us. She was so taking,--that girl,--so confidential, so friendly. We really loved her.
Then her quaint little Americanisms were as pretty as herself--not only her "Yes, sirs," and
her "No, ma'ams," her "I guess" and "That's so," but her fresh Western ideas, and her infinite
play of fancy in the queen's English. She turned it as a potter turns his clay. In Britain
our mother tongue has crystallised long since into set forms and phrases. In America it has
the plasticity of youth; it is fertile in novelty--nay, even in surprises. And Melissa knew
how to twist it deftly into unexpected quips and incongruous conjunctions. Her talk ran on
like a limpid brook, with a musical ripple playing ever on the surface. As for Bernard, he
helped her about the ship like a brother, as she moved lightly around, with her sylph-like
little form, among the ropes and capstans. Melissa Hked to be helped, she said; she didn't
believe one bit in woman's rights; no, indeed; she was a great deal too fond of being taken
care of for that. And who wouldn't take care of her,--that delicate little thing,--like some
choice small masterpiece of cunning workmanship? Why, she almost looked as if she were made
of Venetian glass, and a fall on deck would shatter her into a thousand fragments.

And her talk all the way was of the joys of Europe--the castles and abbeys she was leaving
behind, the pictures and statues she had seen and admired, the pictures and statues she had
left unvisited. "Somebody told me in Paris," she said to me one day, as she hung on my arm
on deck, and looked up into my face confidingly with that childlike smile of hers, "the only
happy time in an American woman's life is the period when she's just got over the first poignant
regret at having left Europe, and hasn't just reached the point when she makes up her mind
that, come what will, she really MUST go back again. And I thought, for my part, then my happiness
was fairly spoiled for life, for I shall never be able again to afford the journey."

"Melissa, my child," I said, looking down at those ripe, rich lips, "in this world one never
knows what may turn up next. I've observed on my way down the path of life that, when fruit
hangs rosy red on the tree by the wall, some passer-by or other is pretty sure in the end to
pluck it."

But that was too much for Melissa's American modesty. She looked down and blushed like a rose
herself; but she answered me nothing.

A night or two before we reached New York I was standing in the gloom, half hidden by a boat
on the davits amidships, enjoying my vespertinal cigar in the cool of evening; and between
the puffs I caught from time to time stray snatches of a conversation going on softly in the
twilight between Bernard and Melissa. I had noticed of late, indeed, that Bernard and Melissa
walked much on deck in the evening together; but this particular evening they walked long and
late, and their conversation seemed to me (if I might judge by fragments) particularly confidential.
The bits of it I caught were mostly, it is true, on Melissa's part (when Bernard said anything
he said it lower). She was talking enthusiastically of Venice, Florence, Pisa, Rome, with occasional
flying excursions into Switzerland and the Tyrol. Once, as she passed, I heard something murmured
low about Botticelli's "Primavera"; when next she went by it was the Alps from Murren; a third
time, again, it was the mosaics at St. Mark's, and Titian's "Assumption," and the doge's palace.
What so innocent as art, in the moonlight, on the ocean?

At last Bernard paused just opposite where I stood (for they didn't perceive me), and said
very earnestly, "Look here, Melissa,"--he had called her Melissa almost from the first moment,
and she to prefer it, it seemed so natural,--"look here, Melissa. Do you know, when you talk
about things like that, you make me feel so dreadfully ashamed of myself."

"Why so, Mr. Hancock?" Melissa asked, innocently.

"Well, when I think what opportunities I've had, and how little I've used them," Bernard exclaimed,
with vehemence, "and then reflect how few you've got, and how splendidly you've made the best
of them, I just blush, I tell you, Melissa, for my own laziness."

"Perhaps," Melissa interposed, with a grave little air, "if one had always been brought up
among it all, one wouldn't think quite so much of it. It's the novelty of antiquity that makes
it so charming to people from my country. I suppose it seems quite natural, now, to you that
your parish church should be six hundred years old, and have tombs in the chancel, with Elizabethan
ruffs, or its floor inlaid with Plantagenet brasses. To us, all that seems mysterious, and
in a certain sort of way one might almost say magical. Nobody can love Europe quite so well,
I'm sure, who has lived in it from a child. YOU grew up to many things that burst fresh upon
us at last with all the intense delight of a new sensation."

They stood still as they spoke, and looked hard at one another. There was a minute's pause.
Then Bernard began again. "Melissa," he faltered out, in a rather tremulous voice, "are you
sorry to go home again?"

"I just hate it!" Melissa answered, with a vehement burst. Then she added, after a second,
"But I've enjoyed the voyage."

"You'd like to live in Europe?" Bernard asked.

"I should love it!" Melissa replied. "I'm fond of my folks, of course, and I should be sorry
to leave them; but I just love Europe. I shall never go again, though. I shall come right away
back to Kansas City now, and keep store for father for the rest of my natural existence."

"It seems hard," Bernard went on, musing, "that anybody like you, Melissa, with such a natural
love of art and of all beautiful things,--anybody who can draw such sweet dreams of delight
as those heads you showed us after Filippo Lippi, anybody who can appreciate Florence and Venice
and Rome as you do,--should have to live all her life in a far Western town, and meet with
so little sympathy as you're likely to find there."

