RIDES ON RAILWAYS by Samuel Sidney.

PREFACE.

The following pages are an attempt to supply something amusing, instructive, and suggestive
to travellers who, not caring particularly where they go, or how long they stay at any particular
place, may wish to know something of the towns and districts through which they pass, on their
way to Wales, the Lakes of Cumberland, or the Highlands of Scotland; or to those who, having
a brief vacation, may wish to employ it among pleasant rural scenes, and in investigating the
manufactures, the mines, and other sources of the commerce and influence of this small island
and great country.

In performing this task, I have relied partly on personal observation, partly on notes and
the memory of former journeys; and where needful have used the historical information to be
found in cyclopaedias, and local guide-books.

This must account for, if it does not excuse, the unequal space devoted to districts with equal
claims to attention.  But it would take years, if not a lifetime, to render the manuscript
of so discursive a work complete and correct.

I feel that I have been guilty of many faults of commission and omission; but if the friends
of those localities to which I have not done justice will take the trouble to forward to me
any facts or figures of public general interest, they shall be carefully embodied in any future
edition, should the book, as I hope it will, arrive at such an honour and profit.

S. S.

LONDON, AUGUST, 1851.

CONTENTS.

LONDON AND NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY EUSTON STATION THE MIXED TRAIN CAMDEN STATION AYLESBURY WOBURN
AND BEDFORD THE BUCKS RAILWAY BANBURY OXFORD WOLVERTON STATION BLISWORTH, NORTHAMPTON WEEDON
RUGBY AND ITS RAILWAYS ARNOLD AND HIS SCHOOL COVENTRY TO BIRMINGHAM BIRMINGHAM WARWICK, LEAMINGTON,
KENILWORTH, STRATFORD-ON-AVON SOHO THE BLACK COUNTRY (WALSALL, DUDLEY, WEDNESBURY, DARLASTON)
STAFFORD LIVERPOOL MANCHESTER THE ROAD TO YORKSHIRE YORKSHIRE LEEDS THROUGH LINCOLNSHIRE TO
SHEFFIELD SHEFFIELD DERBYSHIRE FROM CHESTER TO NORTH STAFFORDSHIRE THE LAKES HOME

LIST OF ENGRAVINGS.

EUSTON SQUARE, LONDON HARROW-ON-THE-HILL VIADUCT OVER THE RIVER COLNE, NEAR WATFORD LOOKING
FROM THE HILL ABOVE BOXMOOR STATION TOWARDS BERKHAMSTED BERKHAMSTED STATION LEIGHTON BUZZARD
DENBIGH HALL BRIDGE THE WOLVERTON VIADUCT BRIDGE IN THE BLISWORTH EMBANKMENT VIEW FROM TOP
OF KILSBY TUNNEL, LOOKING TOWARDS RUGBY COVENTRY THE SHERBORNE VIADUCT, NEAR COVENTRY THE AVON
VIADUCT THE ASTON VIADUCT ASTON HALL NEWTON ROAD STATION, NEAR BIRMINGHAM THE RAILWAY NEAR
PENKRIDGE STAFFORD VIEW NEAR WHITMORE VALE-ROYAL VIADUCT EXCAVATION AT HARTFORD VIADUCT OVER
THE MERSEY AND MERSEY AND IRWELL CANAL, KINGSTON THE DUTTON VIADUCT THE WARRINGTON VIADUCT

LONDON AND NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY.

According to Mr. Punch, one of the greatest authorities of the day on all such subjects, the
nearest way to Euston Station is to take a cab; but those who are not in a hurry may take advantage
of the omnibuses that start from Gracechurch Street and Charing Cross, traversing the principal
thoroughfares and calling at the George and Blue Boar, Holborn, the Green Man and Still, Oxford
Street, and the Booking Offices in Regent Circus.

Euston, including its dependency, Camden Station, is the greatest railway port in England,
or indeed in the world.  It is the principal gate through which flows and reflows the traffic
of a line which has cost more than twenty-two millions sterling; which annually earns more
than two millions and a-half for the conveyance of passengers, and merchandise, and live stock;
and which directly employs more than ten thousand servants, beside the tens of thousands to
whom, in mills or mines, in ironworks, in steam-boats and coasters, it gives indirect employment.
What London is to the world, Euston is to Great Britain: there is no part of the country to
which railway communication has extended, with the exception of the Dover and Southampton lines,
which may not be reached by railway conveyance from Euston station.

The Buckinghamshire lines from Bletchley open the way through Oxford to all the Western counties,
only interrupted by the break of gauge.  The Northampton and Peterborough, from Blisworth,
proceeds to the Eastern coast of Norfolk and Lincoln.  At Rugby commences one of several roads
to the North, either by Leicester, Nottingham, and Lincoln, or by Derby and Sheffield; and
at Rugby, too, we may either proceed to Stafford by the direct route of the Trent Valley, a
line which is rendered classical by the memory of Sir Robert Peel, who turned its first sod
with a silver spade and honoured its opening by a celebrated speech; or we may select the old
original line through Coventry, Birmingham, and Wolverhampton, passing through a network of
little railways leading to Warwick and Leamington, the result of unprofitable competition.
A continuation of the Trent Valley line intersects the Pottery district, where the cheapest
Delft and the most exquisite specimens of China ware are produced with equal success; and thus
we reach Liverpool and Manchester by the straightest possible line.

At Stafford we can turn off to Shrewsbury and Chester, or again following the original route
arrive at Crewe, the great workshop and railway town of the London and North Western.  Crewe
affords an ample choice of routes--1st, to Leeds by Stockport (with a branch to Macclesfield)
and Huddersfield, or from Leeds to York, or to Harrogate, and so on by the East Coast line
through Durham, Newcastle, and Berwick, to Edinburgh; 2dly, direct to Manchester; 3rdly, to
Warrington, Newton, Wigan, and the North, through the salt mining country; and, 4thly, to Chester.
At Chester we may either push on to Ireland by way of the Holyhead Railway, crossing the famous
Britannia Tubular Bridge, or to Birkenhead, the future rival of Liverpool.

At Liverpool steamers for America warranted to reach New York in ten days are at our command;
or, leaving commerce, cotton, and wool, we may ride through Proud Preston and Lancaster to
Kendal and Windermere and the Lake district; or, pressing forward through "Merry Carlisle,"
reach Gretna at a pace that defies the competition of fathers and guardians, and enter Scotland
on the direct road to Glasgow, and, if necessary, ride on to Aberdeen and Perth.

A short line from Camden Station opens a communication with the East and West India Docks and
the coast of Essex, and another, three miles and a half in length, from Willesden Station,
will shortly form a connexion with the South Western, and thereby with all the South and Western
lines from Dover to Southampton.

The railway system, of which the lines above enumerated form so large a part, is barely twenty-five
years old: in that space of time we have not only supplied the home market but taught Europe
and America to follow our example; even Egypt and India will soon have their railways, and
we now look with no more surprise on the passage of a locomotive with a few hundred passengers
or tons of goods than on a wheelbarrow or Patent Hansom Cab.  Grouse from Aberdeen, fat cattle
from Norfolk, piece goods from Manchester, hardwares from Sheffield, race horses from Newmarket,
coals from Leicestershire, and schoolboys from Yorkshire, are despatched and received, for
the distance of a few hundred miles, with the most perfect regularity, as a matter of course.
We take a ticket to dine with a friend in Chester or Liverpool, or to meet the hounds near
Bletchley or Rugby, as calmly as we engage a cab to go a mile; we consider twenty miles an
hour disgustingly slow, and grumble awfully at a delay of five minutes in a journey of a hundred
miles.  Millions have been spent in order to save an hour and a half between London and Liverpool;
yet there are plenty of men not much past thirty who remember when all respectable plain practical
common sense men looked upon the project for a railway between London and Birmingham as something
very wild if not very wicked; and who remember too, that in winter the journey from London
to Liverpool often occupied them twenty-two hours, costing 4 pounds inside and 2 pounds out,
besides having to walk up the steepest hills in Derbyshire,--the same journey which is now
completed in six hours at a cost of 2 pounds 5s., and in twelve hours for 16s. 9d., by the
Parliamentary train in an enclosed carriage.

It may be perhaps a useful wholesome lesson to those who are in the habit of accepting as their
just due--without thought, without thankfulness--the last best results of the industry and
ingenuity of centuries, if, before entering the massive portals of Euston Station, we dig up
a few passages of the early history of railways from dusty Blue Books and forgotten pamphlets.

In 1826, the project of a railway from Liverpool to Manchester came before a Committee of the
House of Commons, and, after a long investigation, the principle was approved, but the bill
thrown out in consequence of defects in the survey.  The promoters rested their case entirely
on a goods' traffic, to be conveyed at the rate of six or seven miles an hour.  The engineer
was George Stephenson, the father of the railway system, a man of genius, who, although he
clearly foresaw the ultimate results of his project, had neither temper nor tact enough to
conciliate the ignorant obstinacy of his opponents; in fact, he was a very bad witness and
a very great man.  It is curious, in reading the evidence, to observe the little confidence
the counsel for the bill had in their engineer, and the contempt with which the counsel for
the opposition treated him.  The promoters of the railway expected few passengers, hoped to
lower the rates of the canals, and had not made up their minds whether to employ locomotives
or horses; George Stephenson looked forward confidently at that same period to conveying the
greater portion of the goods and passenger traffic by a complete railway system; but he either
would not or could not explain the grounds of his confidence, and therefore we find Mr. Harrison,
the most eminent Parliamentary counsel of that day, speaking in the following insolent strain
of a man whose genius he and his friends were unable to appreciate:--

"Every part of this scheme shows that this man (George Stephenson) has applied himself to a
subject of which he has no knowledge, and to which he has no science to apply. . . . .  When
we set out with the original prospectus, we were to gallop at the rate of twelve miles an hour,
with the aid of the devil in the form of a locomotive, sitting as postillion on the fore horse.
But the speed of these locomotives has slackened.  The learned Sergeant would like to go seven,
but he will be content with six miles an hour.  I will show that he cannot go six.  Practically,
or for any useful purposes, they may go at something more than four miles an hour.  A shower
of rain retards a railway, and snow entirely stops it."

In reply, Mr. Adams modestly observed, "I should like my learned friend to have pointed out
any part of the publication in favour of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, which justified
his statement that we professed that goods were to be carried at the rate of twelve miles an
hour; we have proved that they can be carried at seven miles an hour, and it was never intended
they should be conveyed at a higher rate."

In the following year the Liverpool and Manchester Bill was carried, and in 1830 the career
of the civilizing locomotive commenced, but it took many more years to convince "Practical
men" that the Railway would successfully compete with the Coach and Canal.

When, in 1831, the scheme of a Railway between London and Birmingham was made public, a very
clever pamphlet appeared under the title of "Beware the Bubbles," in which we find the following
comical prognostications of the results of Railways:--

"After all, what advantage does the London and Birmingham Railway hold out? Only one,--celerity
of motion; and, after all, the ten miles an hour is absolutely slower than the coaches, some
of which go as fast as eleven or twelve miles an hour; and, with the length of time that the
engine and its cumbrous train requires ere it can stop, and the other contingencies, there
would be little difference in the time of a twelve miles an hour coach and a fifteen miles
an hour engine, supposing twenty or thirty stoppages, to pick up little parcels, between London
and Birmingham.  The conveyance is not so safe as by coach."

After enumerating a series of theoretical dangers, he proceeds.  "Another consideration, which
would deter invalids, ladies, and children from making use of the Railway, would be want of
accommodation along the line, unless the Directors of the Railway chose to build inns at their
own expense.  But those inns the Directors would have, in great part, to support, because they
would be out of the way of any business except that arising from the Railway, and that would
be trifling.  Commercial travellers would never, by any chance, go by the Railroad.  The occasional
traveller, who went the same route for pleasure, would go by the coach-road also, because of
the cheerful company and comfortable dinner.

"Not one of the nobility, the gentry, or those who travel in their own carriages, would really
like to be drawn at the tail of a train of waggons, in which some hundreds of bars of iron
were jingling with a noise that would drown all the bells of the district, and in momentary
apprehension of having his vehicle broken to pieces, and himself killed or crippled by the
collision of those thirty-two ton masses.  Even if a man had no carriage of his own, what inducement
could he have to take so ungainly a conveyance.  Three hours is more than the maximum difference
by which the ordinary speed of coaches could be exceeded; and it is not one traveller in a
thousand to whom an arrival in London and Birmingham three hours sooner would be of the slightest
consequence.

"Then as to goods.  The only goods that require velocity in coming to London, are ribands from
Coventry.  Half the luggage room of a coach, on a Saturday night, is quite adequate to the
conveyance of them.  The manufacturers of Coventry will never be such fools as to send their
property on an errand by which it must travel further and fare worse.  For heavy goods, the
saving by canal would be as twelve to one, beside the perfect safety.  In the canal boat there
is no danger of fracture, even to the most delicate goods; whereas, if fine China goods were
to be brought by the rapid waggons, the breakage would probably be twenty-five per cent.

"As to the profits of the undertaking let us be extravagantly liberal. Suppose that the Railway
was to get one-third of the goods, as well as one- third of the passengers, see what they would
make of it:--

One-third of the Goods .  .  .   96,540 pounds
One-third of the Passengers  .   30,240
                                                              --------
                                                                126,780 pounds
                                                              --------
Annual expenses .  .  .  .  .   385,000 pounds
Returns.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   126,780
                                                              --------
Annual deficiency  .  .  .  .   258,220 pounds
                                                              --------
        To meet an outlay of  7,500,000 pounds.

"But the probability is that canals would reduce their rates one-half; and thus, competing
wholesomely, extinguish the railway.  The coach-masters would do the same thing--run for twelve
months at half the present fares, and then not one man in his senses would risk his bones on
the railway.  The innkeepers would follow a course precisely similar, and give nice smoking
dinners, foaming tankards and bottles of beeswing at so cheap a rate, and meet their customers
with so good humoured faces, and do so many of those kind offices that legions would flock
to the hospitable road.  And while all this was going on, and the thousands of men which the
authors of this ridiculous scheme had expected to send upon the parish were thriving, the solitary
stranger who had nobody to tell him better would go swinging at the tail of the engine, bumping
first on the iron plates on this side and then on the iron plates on that side; and if he escaped
being scalded to death by the bursting of his engine, or having all his bones broken by collision
with another, he would be fain to rest for the night within some four bare walls and gnaw a
mouldy crust which he brought in his pocket, or, as an alternative of luxury, wade some ten
miles through the mire, and feast upon a rasher of rusty bacon and a tankard of the smallest
ale at the nearest hedge alehouse."

All this now sounds inexpressibly droll, and yet this prophet of evil was not entirely wrong;
nay, in some important particulars he was more right than the railway promoters, whom he so
heartily detested.  The railway did cost nearly seven millions instead of four millions as
calculated by the projectors, and the cost of working before the amalgamation with the Grand
Junction did amount to 380,000 pounds per annum: two figure facts which would have effectually
crushed speculation could they have been proved in 1831; but then the per contra of traffic
was equally astounding in its overflow, instead of one-third of the existing traffic, or 126,780
pounds a-year allowed by the pamphleteer, the London and Birmingham earned a gross revenue
of nearly 900,000 pounds, while still leaving a traffic in heavy goods on the canals sufficient
to pay from 6 to 30 pounds per cent. to the proprietors, in spite of a reduction of rates of
upwards of 50 pounds per cent.  Indeed this traffic actually increased on the Grand Junction
Canal, since the opening of the Birmingham Railway, from 750,000 pounds in 1836, to 1,160,000
pounds in 1847.

Perhaps on no point would the expectation of the most sanguine among the early projectors of
railways been more satisfactorily exceeded than in regard to safety.  Swiftness, and cheapness,
and power, acute intelligent engineers foresaw; but that millions of passengers should be whirled
along at a speed varying from twenty to fifty miles an hour with more safety than they could
have secured by walking a-foot, would have seemed an anticipation of the very wildest character.
Yet such is the case.  In 1850, upwards of seventy millions of souls were conveyed by railway;
when eleven passengers were killed and fifty-four injured, or less than one to each million
of passengers conveyed.

Even at the risk of seeming trite, prosy, and common-place, it is right to remind the young
generation who consider the purchase of a railway ticket gives them a right to grumble at a
thousand imaginary defects and deficiencies in railway management, how great are the advantages
in swiftness, economy, and safety, which they enjoy through the genius, enterprise, and stubborn
perseverance of George Stephenson and his friends and pupils in 1825.

EUSTON STATION.

This station was an after-thought, the result of early experience in railway traffic.  Originally
the line was to have ended at Camden Town, but a favourable opportunity led to the purchase
of fifteen acres, which has turned out most convenient for the public and the proprietors.
It is only to be regretted that it was not possible to bring the station within a few yards
of the New Road, so as to render the stream of omnibuses between Paddington and the City available,
without compelling the passenger to perspire under his carpet-bag, railway-wrapper, umbrella,
and hat-box, all the way from the platform to the edge of Euston Square.

The great gateway or propylaeum is very imposing, and rather out of place; but that is not
the architect's fault.  It cost thirty thousand pounds, and had he been permitted to carry
out his original design, no doubt it would have introduced us to some classic fane in character
with the lofty Titanic columns: for instance, a temple to Mercury the winged messenger and
god of Mammon.  But, as is very common in this country,--for familiar examples see the London
University, the National Gallery, and the Nelson Column,--the spirit of the proprietors evaporated
with the outworks; and the gateway leads to a square court-yard and a building the exterior
of which may be described, in the language of guide books when referring to something which
cannot be praised, as "a plain, unpretending, stucco structure," with a convenient wooden shed
in front, barely to save passengers from getting wet in rainy weather.

[EUSTON SQUARE, LONDON: ill1.jpg]

As Melrose should be seen by the fair moonlight, so Euston, to be viewed to advantage, should
be visited by the gray light of a summer or spring morning, about a quarter to six o'clock,
three-quarters of an hour before the starting of the parliamentary train, which every railway,
under a wise legislative enactment, is compelled to run "once a-day from each extremity, with
covered carriages, stopping at every station, travelling at a rate of not less than fifteen
miles an hour, at a charge of one-penny per mile."  We say wise, because the competition of
the Railway for goods, as well as passengers, drove off the road not only all the coaches,
on which, when light-loaded, foot-sore travellers got an occasional lift, but all the variety
of vans and broad-wheeled waggons which afforded a slow but cheap conveyance between our principal
towns.

At the hour mentioned, the Railway passenger-yard is vacant, silent, and as spotlessly clean
as a Dutchman's kitchen; nothing is to be seen but a tall soldier-like policeman in green,
on watch under the wooden shed, and a few sparrows industriously yet vainly trying to get breakfast
from between the closely packed paving-stones.  How different from the fat debauched-looking
sparrows who throve upon the dirt and waste of the old coach yards!

It is so still, so open; the tall columns of the portico entrance look down on you so grimly;
the front of the booking-offices, in their garment of clean stucco, look so primly respectable
that you cannot help feeling ashamed of yourself,--feeling as uncomfortable as when you have
called too early on an economically genteel couple, and been shown into a handsome drawing-room,
on a frosty day, without a fire.  You cannot think of entering into a gossip with the Railway
guardian, for you remember that "sentinels on duty are not allowed to talk," except to nursery
maids.

Presently, hurrying on foot, a few passengers arrive; a servant-maid carrying a big box, with
the assistance of a little girl; a neat punctual-looking man, probably a banker's clerk on
furlough; and a couple of young fellows in shaggy coats, smoking, who seem, by their red eyes
and dirty hands, to have made sure of being up early by not going to bed.  A rattle announces
the first omnibus, with a pile of luggage outside and five inside passengers, two commercial
travellers, two who may be curates or schoolmasters, and a brown man with a large sea-chest.
At the quarter, the scene thickens; there are few Hansoms, but some night cabs, a vast number
of carts of all kinds, from the costermonger's donkey to the dashing butcher's Whitechapel.
There is very little medium in parliamentary passengers about luggage, either they have a cart-load
or none at all.  Children are very plentiful, and the mothers are accompanied with large escorts
of female relations, who keep kissing and stuffing the children with real Gibraltar rock and
gingerbread to the last moment.  Every now and then a well-dressed man hurries past into the
booking-office and takes his ticket with a sheepish air as if he was pawning his watch.  Sailors
arrive with their chests and hammocks.  The other day we had the pleasure of meeting a travelling
tinker with the instruments of his craft neatly packed; two gentlemen, whose closely cropped
hair and pale plump complexion betokened a recent residence in some gaol or philanthropic institution;
an economical baronet, of large fortune; a prize fighter, going down to arrange a little affair
which was to come off the next day; a half- pay officer, with a genteel wife and twelve children,
on his way to a cheap county in the north; a party of seven Irish, father, mother, and five
grown- up sons and daughters, on their way to America, after a successful residence in London;
a tall young woman and a little man, from Stamford, who had been up to London to buy stone
bottles, and carried them back rattling in a box; a handsome dragoon, with a very pretty girl,--her
eyes full of tears,--on his arm, to see him off; another female was waiting at the door for
the same purpose, when the dragoon bolted, and took refuge in the interior of the station.
In a word, a parliamentary train collects,--besides mechanics in search of work, sailors going
to join a ship, and soldiers on furlough,--all whose necessities or tastes lead them to travel
economically, among which last class are to be found a good many Quakers.  It is pleasing to
observe the attention the poor women, with large families and piles of packages, receive from
the officers of the company, a great contrast to the neglect which meets the poorly clad in
stage-coach travelling, as may still be seen in those districts where the rail has not yet
made way.

We cannot say that we exactly admire the taste of the three baronets whom a railway superintendent
found in one third-class carriage, but we must own that to those to whom economy is really
an object, there is much worse travelling than by the Parliamentary.  Having on one occasion
gone down by first-class, with an Oxford man who had just taken his M.A., an ensign of infantry
in his first uniform, a clerk in Somerset House, and a Manchester man who had been visiting
a Whig Lord,--and returned third-class, with a tinker, a sailor just returned from Africa,
a bird-catcher with his load, and a gentleman in velveteens, rather greasy, who seemed, probably
on a private mission, to have visited the misdemeanour wards of all the prisons in England
and Scotland; we preferred the return trip, that is to say, vulgar and amusing to dull and
genteel.  Among other pieces of information gleaned on this occasion, we learned that "for
a cove as didn't mine a jolly lot of readin and writin, Readin was prime in winter; plenty
of good vittles, and the cells warmed."

It must be remarked that the character of the Parliamentary varies very much according to the
station from which it starts.  The London trains being the worst, having a large proportion
of what are vulgarly called "swells out of luck."  In a rural district the gathering of smock-frocks
and rosy-faced lasses, the rumbling of carts, and the size, number, and shape of the trunks
and parcels, afford a very agreeable and comical scene on a frosty, moonlight, winter's morning,
about Christmas time, when visiting commences, or at Whitsuntide.  No man who has a taste for
studying the phases of life and character should fail to travel at least once by the Parliamentary.

The large cheap load having rumbled off from the south side of the station, about nine o'clock
preparations are commenced for the aristocratic Express, which, on this line, is composed of
first-class carriages alone, in which, at half the price of the old mail coach fares, the principal
stations on the line are reached at railway speed.

To attend the departure of this train, there arrive not only the republican omnibi and cabs,
from the damp night crawler to the rattling Hansom, but carriages, with coronets and mitres
emblazoned, guarded by the tallest and most obsequious of footmen, and driven by the fattest
and most lordly of coachmen; also the neatest of broughams, adorned internally with pale pink
and blue butterfly bonnets; dashing dogcarts, with neat grooms behind, mustached guardsmen
driving; and stately cabriolets prance in, under the guidance of fresh primrose-coloured gloves.

But, although the passengers by the Express train are, in every respect, a contrast to those
by the Parliamentary, the universal and levelling tendency of the railway system is not less
plainly exhibited.

The earl or duke, whose dignity formerly compelled him to post in a coupe and four, at a cost
of some five or six shillings a mile, and an immense consumption of horse-flesh, wax-lights,
and landladies' curtsies on the road, now takes his place unnoticed in a first-class carriage
next to a gentleman who travels for a great claret and champagne house, and opposite another
going down express to report a railway meeting at Birmingham for a morning paper.  If you see
a lady carefully and courteously escorted to a carriage marked "engaged," on a blackboard,
it is probably not a countess but the wife of one of the principal officers of the company.
A bishop in a greatcoat creates no sensation; but a tremendous rush of porters and superintendents
towards one carriage, announces that a director or well-known engineer is about to take his
seat.  In fact, civility to all, gentle and simple, is the rule introduced by the English railway
system; every porter with a number on his coat is, for the time, the passenger's servant. 
Special attention is bestowed on those who are personally known, and no one can grumble at
that. Some people, who have never visited the continent, or only visited it for pleasure, travelling
at their leisure, make comparisons with the railways of France and Germany, unfavourable to
the English system.  Our railways are dearer than the foreign, so is our government,--we make
both ourselves; but compare the military system of the continental railways; the quarter of
an hour for admission before the starting of the train, during which, if too early or too late,
you are locked out; the weighing of every piece of baggage; the lordly commanding airs of all
the officials if any relaxation of rules be required; the insouciance with which the few porters
move about, leaving ladies and gentlemen to drag their own luggage;--compare all this with
the rapid manner in which the loads of half-a-dozen cabs, driving up from some other railway
at the last moment, are transferred to the departing Express; compare the speed, the universal
civility, attention, and honesty, that distinguish our railway travelling, and you cannot fail
to come to the conclusion that for a commercial people to whom time is of value, ours is the
best article, and if we had not been a lawyer-ridden people we might also have had the cheapest
article.

Before starting the Express train, we must not fail to note one new class of passengers, recruited
by the speed of railways, viz., the number of gentlemen in breeches, boots, and spurs, with
their pinks just peeping from under their rough jackets, who, during the season, get down to
Aylesbury, Bletchley, and even Wolverton, to hunt, and back home again to dinner.  But the
signal sounds.  The express train moves off; two gentlemen at the last moment are, in vain,
crying out for Punch and the Times, while an unheeded hammering at the closed door of the booking-office
announces that somebody is too late. There is always some one too late.  On this occasion it
was a young gentleman in a pair of light top-boots, and a mamma and papa with half-a-dozen
children and two nursery-maids in a slow capacious fly.

We cannot bestow unqualified praise upon the station arrangements at Euston. Comfort has been
sacrificed to magnificence.  The platform arrangements for departing and arriving trains are
good, simple, and comprehensive; but the waiting-rooms, refreshment stand, and other conveniences
are as ill-contrived as possible; while a vast hall with magnificent roof and scagliola pillars,
appears to have swallowed up all the money and all the light of the establishment.

The first-class waiting-room is dull to a fearful degree, and furnished in the dowdiest style
of economy.  The second-class room is a dark cavern, with nothing better than a borrowed light.

The refreshment counters are enclosed in a sort of circular glazed pew, open to all the drafts
of a grand, cold, uncomfortable hall, into which few ladies will venture.

A refreshment-room should be the ante-room to the waiting-room, and the two should be so arranged
with reference to the booking-office and cloak-rooms, that strangers find their way without
asking a dozen questions from busy porters and musing policemen.

Euston Station reminds us of an architect's house, where a magnificent portico and hall leads
to dungeon-like dining-room, and mean drawing-room. Why are our architects so inferior to our
engineers?

On the platform is the door of the telegraph office, which also has offices for receiving and
transmitting messages at all the principal stations.

THE MIXED TRAIN.

The Mixed train on this line holds an intermediate rank between the Parliamentary and the Express,
consisting as it does of first and second- class carriages, at lower fares than the one and
higher than the other, stopping at fewer stations than the Parliamentary, and at more than
the Express; but worth notice on the present occasion, because it is by these trains only that
horses and carriages are allowed to be conveyed.

Carriages require very careful packing on a truck.  At the principal stations this may be very
well left to the practised porters, but at road-side stations it is a point which should be
looked to; for it has not unfrequently happened that the jogging, lateral motion of the railway
has heated the axles of a carriage or truck, so that at the end of the journey the wheels have
been found as fast as if they had been welded, and quite unfit to travel.

Travelling in a carriage on a truck is by no means safe: some years since Lady Zetland and
her maids were nearly burned to death, sparks from the engine having set fire to their luggage.
The maid threw herself off the truck, and had an extraordinary escape.

The arrangements of the boxes for carrying horses are now very complete, and when once a horse,
not of a naturally nervous disposition, has been accustomed to travel by rail, it will often
be found better to take him on to hunt at a distance than to send him overnight to a strange
place with all the disadvantages of change of food, and temptations to neglect in the way of
the groom.  It is, however, a class of traffic to which few of the railway companies have paid
much attention; yet, in our opinion, capable of great development under a system of moderate
fares, and day tickets.  The rates are not always stated in the time tables, but on the London
and North Western a day ticket for a horse costs fourteen shillings for thirty miles.

Besides horses, packs of hounds, and even red deer are occasionally sent by rail.  But deer
travel in their own private carriages.  Hounds are generally accompanied by the huntsman, or
whip, to keep them in order.  And on the Great Western line a few years ago a huntsman was
nearly stifled in this way. The van had been made too snug and close for travelling comfortably
with twenty couple of warm fox-hounds.

If there is the slightest doubt about a horse entering the van quietly, the best way is to
blindfold him before he becomes suspicious.  Among other pursuits, horse racing has been completely
revolutionised by the rail.  The posting race-horse van was a luxury in which only the wealthiest
could indulge to a limited extent, but now the owner of a string of thoroughbreds, or a single
plater, can train in the South or the North, and in four and twenty hours reach any leading
course in the kingdom; carrying with him, if deemed needful, hay, straw, and water.

As we move slowly off toward Camden Station, by the fourth of the eighteen passenger trains
which daily depart from Euston, and emerging with light whirl along within sight of rows of
capital houses, whose gardens descend to the edge of the cuttings, we are reminded that under
the original act for taking up Euston, it was specially provided, at the instance of Lord Southampton,
that no locomotive should be allowed to proceed further to the south than Camden Town, lest
his building land should remain neglected garden land for ever.  This promise was accepted
with little reluctance by the company, because in 1833 it was popularly considered that the
ascent to reach Camden Town could not be easily overcome by a heavily loaded locomotive. Consequently
a pair of stationary engines were erected at Camden Town, and a pair of tall chimneys to carry
off their smoke and steam.

But the objections in taste, and difficulties in science, have vanished.  On this line, as
on all others, tenants are readily found for houses fringing a cutting; locomotives run up
even such ascents as the Bromsgrove Lickey, between Worcester and Birmingham, with a load of
500 tons.  So ten minutes have been saved in time, and much expense, by doing away with the
rope traction system.  The stationary engines have been sold, and are now doing duty in a flax
mill in Russia, and the two tall columns, after slumbering for several years as monuments of
prejudices and obstacles overcome, were swept away to make room for other improvements.

It is, however, very odd, and not very creditable to human nature, that whenever a railway
is planned, the proprietors are assailed by unreasonable demands for compensation, in cases
where past experience has proved that the works will be an advantageous, and often an ornamental
addition.

In 1846 a Sheffield line was vehemently opposed by a Liverpool gentleman, on the ground that
it would materially injure the prospect from a mansion, which had been the seat of his ancestors
for centuries.  The tale was well told, and seemed most pitiful; an impression was produced
on the committee that the privacy of something like Hatfield, or Knebworth, was about to be
infringed on by the "abominable railway."  A stiff cross-examination brought out the reluctant
fact, however, that this "house of my ancestors," this beautiful Elizabethan mansion had been
for many years let as a Lunatic Asylum at 36 pound per annum.

In another instance a railway director sold a pretty country seat, because the grounds were
about to be intersected by a railway embankment; two years after the completion of the railway
he wished to buy it back again, for he found that his successor, by turfing and planting the
slope, had very much increased the original beauty of the gardens.

CAMDEN STATION.

But thus gossiping, we have reached Camden Station, and must take advantage of an unusual halt
to look into the arrangements for building waggons and trucks, and conveying coals, merchandise,
goods, and all live stock included between pigs and bullocks.

Not without difficulty did Mr. Robert Stephenson succeed in inducing the directors to purchase
thirty acres of land here; it was only by urging, that, if unused, the surplus could be sold
at a profit, that he carried out his views.  Genius can foresee results which, to ordinary
capacities, are dark and incomprehensible.  Since 1845 it has been found necessary to take
in an additional plot of three more acres, all now fully occupied.

In no respect were the calculations of parties engaged in the construction of railways more
at fault than with regard to the station accommodation needed for goods traffic, which, on
the principal lines, has added full twenty-five per cent. to the original estimates.  George
Stephenson calculated the cost of getting over Chat Moss at 40,000 pounds; his opponent proved
that it would cost four hundred thousand: but it was executed at exactly the sum Stephenson
set down, while the capital involved in providing Station Room for merchandise at Liverpool
and at Manchester, has probably exceeded the original estimate for the whole line.

On this railway the increase of the goods traffic has been of very recent date.  At a very
early period after the opening of the line, the merchandise department became the monopoly
of the great carriers, who found it answer their purpose to divide the profits afforded by
the discount allowed to carriers by the railway company, without seeking to develop an increase
of occupation.  Under this system, while carriers grew rich, the goods traffic remained stationary.
But when the amalgamation with the Grand Junction, which had always been its own carrier, took
place, a great reduction in rates was made, as well as arrangements for encouraging the conveyance
of every kind of saleable article.  The company became a common carrier, but employing Messrs.
Pickford, and Chaplin and Horne to collect goods.

The result was a marvellous increase, which has been progressing ever since.

A regular trade is now carried on between London and the most remote parts of the kingdom in
every conceivable thing that will bear moving.  Sheep have been sent from Perth to London,
and Covent Garden has supplied tons of the finer description of vegetables to the citizens
of Glasgow; every Saturday five tons of the best fish in season are despatched from Billingsgate
to Birmingham, and milk is conveyed in padlocked tins, from and beyond Harrow, at the rate
of about one penny per gallon.  In articles which are imported into both Liverpool and London,
there is a constant interchange, according to the state of the market; thus a penny per pound
difference may bring a hundred chests of congou up, or send as many of hyson down the line.
All graziers within a day of the rail are able to compete in the London market, the probability
of any extraordinary demand increases the number of beasts arriving weekly at Camden Station
from the average of 500 to 2000, and the sheep from 2000 to 6000; and these animals can be
brought from the furthest grazing grounds in the kingdom without any loss of weight, and in
much better condition than the fat oxen were formerly driven to Smithfield from the rich pastures
round Aylesbury, or the Valley of the Thames.

Camden station, under the alterations effected in 1848-9, has a double line, for goods waggons
only, 2,500 feet in length, entirely clear of the main line.  The length of single lines, exclusive
of the main line, exceeds twelve miles.

To describe it in detail would be a very unsatisfactory task; because, in the first place,
it can ill be understood without a map, and in the next, changes are constantly taking place,
and still greater changes will be forced on the company by the increase of goods traffic, which,
great as it is, is only in its infancy.  Even now freights are paid to the London and North
Western for all the way to China.  But, as an agricultural implement of commerce, the locomotive
has been comparatively as little used as the stationary engine, although hundreds of trades
of a semi-rural character are drawing toward the railway lines, and away from the country towns,
which were formerly the centre of rural commerce, because standing on the highways or near
canals. But such a revolution can only be effected slowly.

At Camden will be found a large yard for the reception of the Midland Counties' coal, the introduction
of which has had a considerable effect in bringing down the price of sea-borne coal.

The cattle pens have lately been altered and enlarged.  Just before Christmas this place is
almost as amusing and exciting as a Spanish bull-fight; although, as a general rule, the silence
of a place where, during every quarter of an hour, of day and night, so enormous a business
is being carried on, is very surprising.

Twenty-four steam waggon horses, or engines, for heavy loads are kept in a circular engine-house,
or stable, 160 feet in diameter, with an iron roof. This form renders every engine accessible
at a moment's notice.  The steam race-horses for the passenger work are kept in an oblong building
opposite the carters.  The demand being more regular, there is no need for the expensive circular
arrangement of stables for this class of engines.  In a large boiler-house, boiling water and
red-hot coke are kept ready night and day, so that on the occasion of any sudden demand no
time need be lost in getting up steam.  There is besides a waggon-building department, a shop
for executing such trifling repairs in the locomotives as need no reference to the great workshop
at Wolverton.  The passenger carriages are most of them built at Euston station, by Mr. Wright.

The carrying department is very conveniently situated close to the Regent's Canal, so as to
have easy communication with inland as well as sea navigation.  A series of sheds occupy an
area of 135,000 superficial feet, and the platforms to receive goods from railway trucks on
one side and from waggons on the other, occupy 30,000 feet.  These platforms and sheds are
provided with 110 cranes, for loading and unloading, with a power varying from one ton and
a half to twenty tons.  By these appliances, work of the most miscellaneous character goes
on all day, and part of the night.

The railway trucks and waggons are moved about by horses: it is amusing to see the activity
with which the heavy brutes often bring a waggon up at a trot, jump out of the way just at
the right moment, and allow the waggon to roll up to the right spot by its own momentum.

The horses are lodged in stables in the underground vaults, which we cannot commend, as they
are dark, damp, full of draughts, and yet ill ventilated; but it was necessary to use these
vaults, and difficult to find stabling for such a number of horses close at hand.

The carrying department at Camden is very miscellaneous, and moves everything, from the contents
of a nursery ground to a full grown locomotive, but they do not impress a stranger so much
as the arrangements at Manchester and Liverpool.  The annual consumption of gas at Camden exceeds
six million cubic feet.

Under the railway system the certainty and rapidity with which merchandise can be transmitted,
changes and simplifies more and more every year the operations of trade.  For instance, Southampton
is the great port for that part of our Indian, South American, and Mediterranean trade which
is conducted by steamers.  When a junction has been effected between the London and North Western
and the South Western, costly packages of silk, muslin, gold tissue, jewellery, may be sent
under lock from the Glasgow manufacturers to the quay alongside at Southampton in a few hours,
without sign of damage or pilferage, and at the last moment before the departure of the steamer.
The communication between the docks on the Thames and Camden Town, will enable a grocer in
Manchester to have a hogshead of sugar or tobacco sent in answer to a letter by return of post,
at a saving in expense which may be imagined from the fact, that it costs more to cart a butt
of sherry from the London Docks to Camden Town, than to send it by rail all the way to Manchester.

To provide for the enormous and annually increasing traffic in passengers and merchandise,
there are:--

    1 State carriage.             260 Horse boxes.
555 Locomotives and tenders.    132 Sheep vans.
494 First-class mails.         7385 Goods waggons.
420 Second-class carriages.      14 Trolleys.
342 Third-class.               1155 Cribb rails.
  25 Post-offices.              5150 Sheets.
242 Carriages,--trucks for       162 Cart horses.
        letters and newspapers.      41 Parcel carts.
201 Guards' brakes.
            Making a grand total rolling stock of 10,663.

The passenger carriages afford eleven miles of seat room, and would accommodate 40,196 individuals,
or the whole population of two such towns as Northampton.

The loading surface of the goods equals eleven acres, and would convey 40,000 tons.

If the tires of all the company's wheels were welded into one ring, they would form a circle
of seventy-two miles.

To keep this rolling stock up in number and efficiency, there are two establishments, one at
Camden Town, and one at Wolverton.

Camden Town is the great coach house of the line, where goods waggons are built and repaired
in one division, where sound locomotives, carriages and trucks are kept ready for use in another.

The waggon building department of Camden is worth visiting, especially by railway shareholders.

Every one is interested in railways being worked economically, for economy gives low rates
and increased profits, which both increase trade and multiply railways.  Hitherto the details
of carrying, especially as to the construction of waggons and trucks, have been much neglected.

On one line running north, it is said that the loss in cheese stolen by the railway servants,
amounts to as much as the whole sum paid for carrying agricultural produce, and on the line
on which we are travelling, breakages have sometimes amounted to 1,200 pounds a-month.

The fact is, that railway carriers have been content to use rude square boxes on wheels, covered
when loaded, if covered at all, with a tarpaulin, without any precautions for draining off
the wet, to which it was constantly exposed when out of use,--without "buffers" or other protecting
springs, so that the wear and tear of the waggon and its load, from inevitable shocks, was
very great.

The imperfect protection of a tarpaulin was, and is, a great temptation to pilferage.  These
sources of expense, in wear and tear of conveyances, loss of tarpaulin coverings, each worth
6 pounds 6s., breakage, pilferage of goods, combine to sum up a formidable discount from the
profits of railway carrying, and, in the case of certain goods, lead the owners to prefer the
slower transit of a canal boat.  Even iron suffers in market value from exposure to the weather;
porcelain and glass are liable to perpetual smashes, on waggons without buffers, in spite of
the most careful packing; while tea, sugar, cheese, and all untraceable eatables are pilfered
to an enormous extent, besides more valuable goods.

It was hoped that railway transit would put an end to the dishonesty which was carried on wholesale
on the canals; but, where open trucks are used, this expectation has been only partly realised,
for the temptation of opportunity has been too strong, for even the superior class of men employed
on railways.

In order to meet these evils, Mr. Henson, who has the charge of the waggon- building department
at Camden, has built and patented a covered waggon with buffers, which unites with great strength,
safety, capacity, and smoothness of motion.  The scientific manner in which these waggons are
framed, gives them strength in proportion to their weight.  The buffers with which they are
fitted, and the roof, protecting from the weather, render them altogether durable, and therefore
economical; while the construction, as will be seen from our vignette, renders pilferage, unless
by collusion with the respectable party who overlooks the unloading, almost impossible.

A diminution of the cost for repairs of rolling stock (on an average equal to 12 pounds per
ann.), and of the cost for compensation to customers for breakage and pilferage, should be
a leading object with every sensible railway director.  Indeed these losses, with deadweight,
and lawyer's bills, are the deadly enemies of railway directors.

Further improvements in these waggons have been effected by the use of corrugated iron, which
is light and strong at the same time; and the iron waggons have been again improved by employing
iron covered with a thin coating of glass, under a new patent, which renders rust impossible
and paint unnecessary.  The simple contrivance by which the door and moveable roof is locked
and unlocked by one motion, is worthy of the notice of practical men. 600 of these lock-up
waggons, with springs and buffers, are in use on the London and North Western Railway.

Mr. Henson has also succeeded in establishing a traffic in gunpowder, by inventing a carriage
of sheet iron, lined with wood, in which four-and-a-half tons of gunpowder can be conveyed
without fear of explosion either from concussion or external combustion.

The shops at Camden have room for building or repairing 100 waggons.  They are to be seen in
every stage of progress.

The great object is to combine strength with lightness.  If the strength being the same, the
saving of a ton can be effected in a waggon, it will amount to from thirty to ninety tons in
an ordinary goods train.  An important consideration, for deadweight is the great enemy of
the railway, and ninety tons of useless weight is equivalent to a loss of 90 pounds in sending
a goods train a journey to Birmingham.  British oak is the favourite wood for the frames of
railway waggons; teak, if of equal quality, is dearer, and the inferior is heavier, without
being so strong.  If in any of the many countries with which we trade a wood can be discovered
as good and as cheap as English oak, the railways which are constantly extending their carrying
stock, can afford a steady demand.

About the passenger carriages, which every one can see and examine for himself, there is not
much to be said.  On the Continent, where they cannot afford to use mahogany, they use sheet-iron
and papier-machee for the panels; in England, mahogany chiefly in the first class.  When we
began, stage coaches were imitated; there are some of the old cramped style still to be seen
on the Richmond line; then came enormous cages--pleasant in summer, fearfully cold in winter,
without fires, which have not been introduced in England, although they are found in the north
of Europe and America.  A medium size has now come into favour, of which some fine specimens
are to be seen in the Hyde Park Exhibition.

On the Great Northern line some second-class carriages have been introduced, varnished, without
paint, and very well they look.  Economy again, and the increase of branches, have led to the
use of composite carriages for first and second-class passengers all on one body.  These, which
were in use years ago on the northern coal lines, are now revived and improved.

The Camden station has received an entirely new feature by the completion of the line to the
docks and to Fenchurch Street, with stations at Islington, Hackney, and Bow.  Already an immense
omnibus traffic has been obtained--a sort of traffic which produces the same effect on engines
as on horses.  They are worn out rapidly by the continual stoppages.  But horses show wear
and tear directly, whereas iron and brass cannot speak except through increased expenses and
diminished dividends.

Leaving Camden, at which trains stop only on arriving, we swiftly pass Kilburn, where an omnibus
station is to be established for the benefit of the rising population of citizens, to Willesden,
where the junction line through Acton to the South Western is to commence.  Willesden has been
rendered classic ground, for the Hero-worshippers who take highwaymen within the circle of
their miscellaneous sympathies, by Mr. Harrison Ainsworth's "Jack Sheppard,"--the "cage" where
this ruffian was more than once confined still remains in its original insecurity.

Sudbury affords nothing to detain us.  The next station is within a mile of Harrow-on-the-Hill,
with its beacon-like church spire.  Rich pasture lies around, famous for finishing off bullocks
fed in the north.  Harrow school is almost as much one of the institutions of England as Oxford
and Cambridge Universities.  It is one of the great public schools, which, if they do not make
the ripest scholars, make "men" of our aristocracy.  This school was founded by one John Lyon,
a farmer of the parish, who died in 1592.

[HARROW-ON-THE-HILL: ill2.jpg]

Attached to it there are four exhibitions of 20 pounds each, and two scholarships of 50 pounds
each.

The grand celebrity of the school rests upon the education of those who are not on the foundation.
The sons of noblemen and wealthy gentlemen, who in this as in many other instances, have treated
those for whose benefit the school was founded, as the young cuckoo treats the hedge sparrow.
Among its illustrious scholars Harrow numbers Lord Byron and Sir Robert Peel.

An old saw runs: "Eton fops, Harrow gentlemen, Winchester scholars, and Westminster blackguards."

Since the palmy days when Dr. Drury was master and Byron and Peel were pupils, Harrow has declined
to insignificance, and been by the abilities of Dr. Wordsworth raised again.  The term of Harrow
gentlemen still deservedly survives, Harrow being still the gate through which the rich son
of a parvenu family may most safely pass on his way to Oxford, if his father desires, as all
fathers do in this country, that his son should amalgamate with the landed aristocracy.

At Pinner, the next station, we pass out of Middlesex into Hertfordshire.

Watford, a principal station, is within a mile of the town of that name, on the river Colne.
Here Henry VI. encamped with his army before the battle of St. Albans.  Cassiobury Park, a
favourite spot for picnics, is close to the station.  It was the opposition of the late proprietor,
the Earl of Essex, that forced upon the engineer of the line the formidable tunnel, which was
once considered an astonishing railway work,--now nothing is astonishing in engineering.

[VIADUCT OVER THE RIVER COLNE: ill3.jpg]

Near King's Langley we pass the Booksellers' Provident Retreat, erected on ground given by
Mr. Dickenson, the great paper maker, who has seven mills on the neighbouring streams, and
reach Boxmoor, only noticeable as the first station opened on the line.

[LOOKING FROM THE HILL ABOVE BOX MOOR STATION TOWARDS BERKHAMSTED: ill4.jpg]

The next station is Berkhamsted.  Cowper the poet was born here, his father was rector of the
parish.  Berkhamsted Castle is part of the hereditary property of the Prince of Wales and Duke
of Cornwall.  At this castle William the Conqueror, after the battle of Hastings, met the Abbot
of St. Albans with a party of chiefs and prelates, who had prepared to oppose the Norman, and
disarmed their hostility by swearing to rule according to the ancient laws and customs of the
country.  Having, of course, broken his oath, he bestowed the castle on his half-brother, Robert
Moreton, Earl of Cornwall.  King John strengthened the castle, which was afterwards besieged
by the Dauphin of France.  When Edward III. created the Black Prince Duke of Cornwall, the
castle and manor of Berkhamsted were bestowed upon him "to hold to him, and the heirs of him,
and the eldest sons of the kings of England, and the dukes of the said place;" and under these
words through civil wars and revolutions, and changes from Plantagenet to Tudor, from Tudor
to Stuart, with the interregnum of a republic, an abdication, and the installation of the Brunswick
dynasty.  The castle is now vested in Albert Prince of Wales.

[BERKHAMSTED STATION: ill5.jpg]

The Chiltern Hills, including the Chiltern Hundreds, the only office under the crown always
open to the acceptance of all without distinction of parties, lies within a short distance
of Berkhamsted.  Ashdridge Park, formerly the seat of the Duke of Bridgewater, the originator
and author, with the aid of Brindley and Telford, of our great canal system, lies about a mile
to the eastward.  The scenery of the park and gardens are fine.  The house is modern.

Tring station, a mile and a half from the town, may be reached from London, 31.5 miles, in
less than an hour by the express train, and the traveller arrives in as wild a district as
any in England.  Three miles north of Tring lies the town of Ivinghoe, possessing a large cruciform
church, worthy of a visit from the students of "Christian architecture," with an old sculptured
timber roof, and containing a tomb with a Norman French inscription,--according to some the
tomb of Henry de Blois, Bishop of Winchester, brother of King Stephen.  At the Rose and Crown
we are informed venison is to be had in perfection at moderate charges during the season. 
The station is the highest point on the line, being 420 feet above the sea, 300 above Camden
Town, and 52 above Birmingham.

In the course of the Tring excavation in the gravel deposits above the chalk, the tusk and
teeth of an elephant were found, and in crossing the Icknield or Roman Way, about thirty-three
miles, were sixteen human skeletons, and several specimens of Roman pottery: two unique urns
are now in the possession of the Antiquarian Society.

Two miles from Tring we pass from Hertfordshire into Buckinghamshire.  It remains a disputed
point whether the name of the county is derived from bucken or boccen, a deer, according to
Spelman, or with Lysons, boc, a charter, or with Camden from bucken, beech trees, which, as
in his time, still abound and flourish.  Unfortunately the state of agriculture does not allow
the pastors of the country to take the ease and rest that was enjoyed by the celebrated Mr.
Tityrus before the repeal of the Roman corn laws, an ease which has cost many an unfortunate
schoolboy a flogging.

Our next halt, Cheddington, is noticeable only because it stands on the fork, of which a short
branch, nine miles in length, leads to Aylesbury.

AYLESBURY.

Aylesbury, standing on a hill, in the midst of one of the richest, if not the richest, tracts
of pasture lands in England, is very ancient without being venerable.  The right of returning
two members to Parliament is found periodically profitable to the inhabitants, and these two
MP's with a little lace, constitute its only manufactures.  The loss of the coaching trade
by the substitution of the railroad, was a great blow to its local prosperity.

Among other changes, the Aylesbury butchers often go to London to buy meat, which has passed
in the shape of oxen through the town to ride to London.

The Berry field, said to be the best field in England, lies in the Vale of Aylesbury.  The
saying of "good land bad farmers," is not belied among the mass of those who meet in the markets
of Aylesbury.  With a few exceptions the farming is as bad as it can be, the farmers miserably
poor, and the labourers ignorant to a degree which is a disgrace to the resident clergy and
gentry.  We had some experience of the peasantry during the railway surveys of 1846, 1847,
and found them quite innocent of thinking and reading, with a timid hatred of their employers,
and perfect readiness to do anything not likely to be found out, for a pot of beer.  They get
low wages, live low, and work accordingly.  It was round Aylesbury, that for many years, the
influence of the insolvent Duke of Buckingham was paramount.

To city sportsmen, Aylesbury has interest as the centre of Baron Rothschild's (stag) hunt;
to politicians, because of great meetings of the country party held there.

We must not omit to notice the duck trade carried on by the poorer order of people round the
town.  They hatch the ducks under hens generally in their living rooms, often under their beds,
and fatten them up early in spring on garbage, of which horse flesh not unfrequently forms
a large part.  The ducks taste none the worse if for the last fortnight they are permitted
to have plenty of clean water and oats, or barleymeal.  Most of the Aylesbury ducks never see
water except in a drinking pan.  The cheap rate at which the inferior grain can be bought has
been a great advantage to these duck feeders.

The many means now open of reaching the best markets of the country will probably change the
style and make the fortunes of a new race of Bucks farmers.  Those of the present generation
who have neither capital nor education can only be made useful by transplantation.

Returning from Aylesbury, and gliding out of the deep cuttings over a fine open country, we
approach the Leighton Buzzard station, and see in the distance the lofty octagonal spire of
the Leighton Buzzard church.

The town is half a mile from the station, and commands the attention of the church antiquary
from its fine church and cross.

The church, says a very competent authority on such matters, "is one of the most spacious,
lightsome, and well-proportioned perpendicular churches, cruciform, with a handsome stone spire.
The roof, stalls, and other wood- work very perfect.  The windows, some ironwork, and other
details, full of interest."

The cross stands in an open area in the centre of the market place, and is twenty-seven feet
high above the basement, which is raised by rows of steps about five feet.

At Leighton Buzzard a branch line of seven miles communicates with DUNSTABLE.

[LEIGHTON BUZZARD: ill6.jpg]

Dunstable is situated in the centre of the Dunstable Chalk Downs, where the celebrated Dunstable
larks are caught which are made mention of in one of Miss Edgeworth's pretty stories.  The
manufactures are whiting and straw hats.  Of an ancient priory, founded in 1131, by Henry I.,
and endowed with the town, and the privileges of jurisdiction extending to life and death,
nothing remains but the parish church, of which the interior is richly ornamented.  Over the
altar-piece is a large painting representing the Lord's Supper, by Sir James Thornhill, the
father-in-law of Hogarth.  In a charity school founded in 1727, forty boys are clothed, educated,
and apprenticed.  In twelve almshouses twelve poor widows are lodged, and in six houses near
the church, called the Maidens' Lodge, six unmarried gentlewomen live and enjoy an income of
120 pounds per ann.  With this brief notice we may retrace our steps.

On leaving Leighton, within half a mile we enter a covered tunnel, and we strongly recommend
some artist fond of "strong effects" in landscape to obtain a seat in a coupe forming the last
carriage in an express train, if such are ever put on now, sitting with your back to the engine,
with windows before and on each side, you are whirled out of sight into twilight and darkness,
and again into twilight and light, in a manner most impressive, yet which cannot be described.
Perhaps the effect is even greater in a slow than in an express train.  But as this tunnel
is curved the transition would be more complete.

At Bletchley the church (embowered in a grove of yews, planted perhaps when Henry VIII. issued
his decrees for planting the archer's tree) contains an altar tomb of Lord Grey of Wilton,
A.D. 1412.  The station has now become important as from it diverge the Bedford line to the
east, and the lines to Banbury and Oxford to the west.

A branch connects Bletchley with Bedford 16.25 miles in length, with the following stations:-

FENNY STRATFORD.  LIDLINGTON. WOBURN SANDS.     AMPTHILL. RIDGMOUNT.        BEDFORD.

WOBURN AND BEDFORD.

Woburn is one of those dull places, neat, clean, and pretentious in public buildings, which
are forced under the hot-house influence of a great political family.

We pass it to visit Woburn Abbey, the residence of the Russell family, with its extensive and
magnificent gardens, its model farms, its picture gallery, and other accessories of a great
nobleman's country seat.

It was at Woburn that Francis, Duke of Bedford, held his sheep-shearing feasts, and by patronising,
in conjunction with Coke of Norfolk and Mr. Western, improvements and improvers in agriculture
and stock-breeding, did so much to promote agricultural improvement in this county, and to
create that large class of wealthy educated agriculturists, which confers such great benefits
on this country.

Now that every country gentleman has at least one neighbour who is, or professes to be, an
agricultural improver, it is difficult to give an adequate idea of the benefit we have derived
from the agricultural enthusiasm of the noblemen and gentlemen who first made the science of
cultivating breeding fashionable, we must be excused the word, among a class which had previously
been exclusively devoted to field sports or to town life.  They founded that finest of all
modern characters--the English country gentleman, educated, yet hearty, a scholar and a sportsman,
a good farmer, and an intelligent, considerate landlord; happy to teach, and ready to learn,
anything connected with a pursuit which he follows with the enthusiasm of a student and the
skill of a practical man.

The other stations have nothing about them to induce a curious traveller to pause.  Not so
can we say of BEDFORD.

Bedford has been pauperised by the number and wealth of its charities.  A mechanic, or small
tradesman, can send his child if it be sick to a free hospital; when older to a free school,
where even books are provided; when the boy is apprenticed a fee may be obtained from a charity;
at half the time of apprenticeship, a second fee; on the expiration of the term, a third; on
going to service, a fourth; if he marries he expects to obtain from a charity fund "a portion"
with his wife, also educated at a charity; and if he has not sufficient industry or prudence
to lay by for old age, and those are virtues which he is not likely to practise, he looks forward
with confidence to being boarded and lodged at one of Bedford's fifty-nine almshouses.

The chief source of the charities of Bedford is derived from an estate of thirteen acres of
land in the parish of St. Andrew, Holborn, London, bequeathed by Sir William Harpur, an alderman
of that city, in the reign of Edward VI., for founding a free school for instructing the children
of the town in grammar, and good manners.  This land, now covered with valuable houses, produces
some 16,000 pounds per annum.

On this fund there are supported, 1st. a Grammar School, with eighty boys on the foundation,
and as many private boarders; a Commercial School, containing 100 to 150 boys; a National School,
of 350 boys, where on the half holidays 170 girls are received, a regular Girls' School and
an Infant School.

Beside which, the girls in the hospital for poor children, another branch of the charity, are
taught household duties, needlework, reading and writing.  In these schools the children of
all resident parishioners of Bedford's five parishes are entitled to receive gratuitous instruction.
In the National School twenty-five boys are clothed from a fund left by Alderman Newton, of
Leicester.

The Warden and Fellows of New College, Oxford, are visitors, and appoint the master and second
master of the Grammar School.  There are four masters, viz., the head, with two assistant masters;
a mathematical master, and a writing master.  The scholars enjoy the advantage of eight exhibitions,
of 80 pounds per annum each, six of which must be bestowed on town boys, the remaining two
may go to boarders.

The cheap and good education attainable as a matter of right in this borough, have rendered
it a favourite resort of half-pay officers and unbeneficed clergymen, blessed with large families.

The church of St. Paul is large, with a nave and a south aisle, divided by early English piers
and arches.  A stone pulpit, ornamented with gilt tracery, on a blue ground, has been removed
in favour of an oak one, with the chancel.  The church of St. Peter has an old Norman door,
a fine antique front, and some curious stained glass in the windows.

John Bunyan, author of the "Pilgrim's Progress," was co-pastor in a Baptist Meeting House,
in Mill-lane, from 1671 until his death in 1688.  The chair in which he used to sit is still
preserved in the vestry as a relic.

A few miles from Bletchley, is a forgotten, but once celebrated spot, Denbigh Hall, over which
the traveller whirls without notice, yet worthy of remembrance, because it affords a name and
date for tracing the march of railway enterprise.

In 1838, a gap in the intended railway from London to Birmingham extended from an obscure public-house,
called Denbigh Hall, to Rugby.  At either point travellers had to exchange the rail for the
coach or chaise.

On June 28, 1838, when Queen Victoria was crowned, for days before the coronation, the coaches
for the intermediate space were crammed; the chaises and post horses were monopolised, and
at length, to cover thirty odd miles, every gig, standing waggon, cart, and donkey cart that
could be obtained in the district, was engaged, and yet many were disappointed of their journey
to London.

On this London and Birmingham line, in addition to, and without disturbing the ordinary traffic,
2,000 souls have been conveyed in one train, at the rate of thirty miles an hour.

Truly Queen Victoria can set the railway conquests of her reign against the glories of the
war victories of Queen Anne and her grandfather, King George.

[DENBIGH HALL BRIDGE: ill7.jpg]

THE BUCKS RAILWAY.

A recent extension from Bletchley traverses Buckinghamshire, and by a fork which commences
at Winslow, passes through Buckingham and Brackley to Banbury by one line, and by Bicester
to Oxford by the other.  We need not pause at Brackley or Winslow.  Buckingham is notable chiefly
as being on the road to Princely Palatial Stowe, the seat of the Buckingham family, now shorn
of its internal glories in pictures, sculptures, carvings, tapestry, books, and manuscripts.
Its grounds and gardens, executed on a great scale in the French style, only remain to delight
the traveller; these would require, and have been often described in, illustrated volumes.
Here we shall not dwell upon the melancholy scene of grandeur, power, and wealth frittered
away in ignoble follies.

BANBURY.

Banbury is more celebrated than worth seeing.  Commercial travellers consider it one of the
best towns in England, as it is a sort of metropolis to a great number of thriving villages.
Banbury cakes are known wherever English children are bred, and to them, where not educated
in too sensible a manner, the Homeric ballad of--

   "Ride a cock horse
   To Banbury Cross,"

is sung.  Unfortunately, the Puritans, in the time of Edward VI., pulled this famous cross down.

They were in great force there; for as Drunken Barnaby, in his tour, tells us:--

   "There I found a Puritan one,
   Hanging of his cat on Monday
   For killing of a rat on Sunday."

At Banbury was fought, after the English fashion, one of the great fights that preceded the
carrying of the Reform Bill.  Previous to that change, sixteen electors had the privilege of
sending a member to Parliament.

During the Reform excitement six of these privileged gentlemen seceded from their usual compact,
and determined to set up on their own account.  For want of a better man, they pitched upon
Mr. Easthope, of the Morning Chronicle, since that period, much to his own astonishment no
doubt, pitchforked into a baronetcy.  The old original M.P. was Colonel Hutchinson, the companion
of Sir Robert Wilson in carrying off Lavalette.  On entering the town, ten thousand Reformers
set up such a howling, that Colonel Hutchinson, thinking his last hour at hand, drew a dagger.
Upon which more groans and shrieks followed, with such threats as made it prudent for the friends
of the Colonel to compel him to retreat.  Under these circumstances, the streets of the town
were crammed full with an excited mob; the poll was opened; the six, amid tremendous plaudits,
voted for Easthope, and Reform; the ten very discreetly staid at home, and thus, by six votes,
a baronetcy was secured to the unopposed candidate.

It is droll to look back upon the movement which led public opinion to prefer a stockjobber
to a gallant soldier.

Banbury manufactures horse girths and other kinds of webbing, as well as excellent ale.  There
are two inns, both good.

The Buckinghamshire Railway has reduced the price of coal to the inhabitants from 22s. to 15s.
per ton, on 150,000 tons per annum.

BICESTER, commonly pronounced Bister, is thirteen miles by the road from Oxford, a town as
ancient as the Heptarchy; famous for a well once sacred and dedicated to St. Edburgh, for its
well attended markets and cattle fairs, and especially for its excellent ale.  It is in the
centre of a capital hunting country.  The women make a little bone lace.

OXFORD.

Oxford is one of the great gates through which our rich middle classes send their sons to be
amalgamated with the landed and titled aristocracy, who are all educated either there or at
Cambridge.

To say of any one that he is an "Oxford man," at once implies that he is a gentleman, and when
a well-looking, well-mannered, and even moderately endowed young gentleman has passed respectably
through his curriculum at Christchurch or Magdalen, Balliol, Oriel, University, or any other
of the correct colleges, it rests with himself whether he runs the race of public life in England
on equal terms with the sons of the oldest of the titled and untitled aristocracy, even though
his father were an eminent retired dust contractor, and his mother laundry maid or factory
girl.  But money alone won't do it, and the pretension, the display, the coxcombry permitted
in a peer, must be carefully avoided by a parvenu.  Thus Oxford interests classes who care
very little for its educational, antiquarian, or architectural resources, as one of the institutions
of the country by which any capable man may cut off his plebeian entail, and start according
to the continental term "noble."

The material beauty of Oxford is great--the situation, in a rich valley bounded by softly flowing
rivers, fine--the domes, and spires, and old grey towers rising in clusters, prepare the mind
of the approaching traveller for the city where the old colleges and churches, planting out
and almost composing it, afford at every bend of the long streets, at every turn of the narrow
thoroughfares, some grand picture, or charming architectural effect; even our Quakers are proud
of Oxford in England when they travel in America. Then Oxford is so decorously clean, so spotlessly
free from the smoke of engines and the roar of machinery; the groves and gardens, and trim
green turf seen through richly-carved and corbeled archways, give such a feeling of calm study,
and pleasant leisure, that we will defy the bitterest radical and the sourest dissenter not
to be softened and charmed by his first impressions.

To those who arrive prepared to be pleased, stored with associations of the past, fortunate
enough to have leisure and introductions to some affable don long resident, and proud to display
the treasures and glories of his beloved Alma Mater, Oxford affords for many days a treat such
as no other city in the world can supply to an Englishman.

The best known route from London is by the Great Western Railway, which, according to the original
plan, would have passed close to the city.  But all the University and ecclesiastical dignitaries
were up in arms; they saw, in their mind's eye, the tender, innocent undergraduates flying
from the proctor-guarded precincts, where modesty, virtue, and sobriety ever reign, to the
vice-haunted purlieus of London, at all hours of the night and day.  The proctors and professors
triumphed; the railway was obliged to leave a gap of ten miles of common road between its invading,
unhallowed course, and the sacred city; and great was the rejoicing in the Convocation Chamber,
and many the toasts in the Senior Common Rooms to the health of the faithful sons of Oxon,
who in Parliament had saved the city from this commercial desecration.

But as even Grosvenor-square was at length glad to admit gas after abiding longest of all in
the genteel gloom of oil lamps, so was Oxford in the end glad to be put on a branch, as it
could not be put on a main line; and now, beside the rail on which we are travelling, Worcester,
Banbury, and Wolverhampton, and two roads to London and Birmingham are open to the wandering
tastes of the callow youth of the University; as may be ascertained by a statistical return
from the railway stations whenever a steeple-chase or Jenny Lind concert takes place in or
near any of the towns enumerated.

The entrance from Bletchley is, perhaps, the finer, as rolling round a semicircle, we sweep
into sight of the dome of Radcliffe Library and the spire of St. Mary's Church, descend, enter
the city by the Cheltenham-road, and passing through an inferior suburb, reach the head of
High-street, of which a great German art critic declared, "that it had not its equal in the
whole world."  Wide, long, and gently curving, approached from either end, it presents in succession
the colleges of Lincoln, Brasenose, University, All Souls, Queen's, St. Mary's Church, with
peeps of gardens with private houses, and with shops, which do not detract, but rather add,
to the dignity and weight of the grand old buildings.

Having slowly sauntered up and down, and scanned the various characters peculiar to the City
of Universities--as, for instance, an autocrat in the person of a Dean of Christchurch, a Principal
of Balliol, or a Master of Jesus, a Proctor newly made, but already endowed with something
of the detective police expression; several senior fellows, plump, shy, proud, and lazy--walking
for an appetite, and looking into the fishmongers on their way to the parks; a "cocky" Master
of Arts, just made, and hastening to call on all his friends and tradesmen to show off his
new dignity, and rustle the sleeves of his new gown; three lads, just entered from a public
school (last month they laid out tip in Mother Brown's tarts), on their way to order three
courses and dessert at the Mitre, where very indifferent fare is provided for fashionable credit
prices; a pale student, after Dr. Pusey's own heart, in cap and gown, pacing monk-like along,
secretly telling his beads; a tuft (nobleman) lounging out of the shop of a tailor, who, as
he follows his lordship to the door, presents the very picture of a Dean bowing to a Prime
Minister, when a bishop is very sick.

A few ladies are seen, in care of papas in caps and gowns, or mammas, who look as if they were
Doctors of Divinity, or deserved to be.  The Oxford female is only of two kinds--prim and brazen.
The latter we will not describe; the former seem to live in perpetual fear of being winked
at, and are indescribable.

From these street scenes, where the ridiculous only is salient, for the quiet and gentlemanly
pass by unnoticed, while pompous dons and coxcombical undergraduates are as certain of attention
as turkeycocks and bantams, we will turn into the solemn precincts of a few of the colleges.

At the head stands Christchurch in dignity and size, founded by Cardinal Wolsey, Pope Clement
VII. consenting, in 1525, on the revenues of some dozen minor monasteries, under the title
of Cardinal College.  The fall of Wolsey--England's last Cardinal, until by the invitation
of modern mediaeval Oxford, Pius IX. sent us a Wiseman--stopped the works.  One of Wolsey's
latest petitions to Henry was, "That his college at Oxford might go on."  And by the King,
after some intermediate changes, it was finally established as Christchurch.

The foundation now consists of a dean, eight canons, eight chaplains, a schoolmaster, an organist,
eight choristers, and 101 students, of whom a considerable number are exhibitioners from Westminster
School.  It is in symbolism of these students that the celebrated Great Tom of Christchurch
clangs each evening 101 times.  Besides these students, there are generally nearly 1000 independent
members, consisting of noblemen, gentlemen commoners, and commoners.  To be a gentleman commoner
of Christchurch, all other advantages being equal, is the most "correct thing" in the University;
none can compete with them, unless it be the gentlemen commoners of Magdalen.  The Christchurch
noblemen, or tufts, are considered the leaders of fashion, whether it be in mediaeval furniture,
or rat hunting, boating, or steeple- chase riding, old politics or new religions.

Among the illustrious men it claims as pupils are, Sir Philip Sydney and Ben Jonson, Camden
and South, Bolingbroke and Locke, Canning and Sir Robert Peel, whom Oxford rejected.  The front
is in Aldate's-street, for which consult Mr. Spier's pretty guide card, the entrance under
the lofty clock tower, whence, at ten minutes past nine every evening, the mighty tom peals
forth his sonorous summons.  The "Tom Gateway" leads into the quadrangle familiarly termed
"quad," 264 feet by 261, the dimensions originally planned by Wolsey; but the buildings which
bound it on three sides were executed after the destruction of the old edifice in the great
civil wars from designs by Sir Christopher Wren in 1688.

The Hall on the south side is ancient; we ascend to it by a flight of steps under a handsome
groined roof supported by a single pillar.  The Hall is 115 feet long, 40 wide, and 50 high.
The open roof of oak richly carved, decorated with the arms of Wolsey and Henry VIII.  Other
carvings adorn the fire-place and a fine bay window.

On the sides of the rooms are hung a series of 120 portraits of ecclesiastics, poets, philosophers
(these are few), statesmen, and noblemen, representing distinguished students of the College.

The dinner hour, when the dean and chief officers sit in state on the dais, masters and bachelors
at the side tables, and undergraduates at the lower end, is an impressive sight, recalling
feudal times.  The feeding is the worst of any in Oxford, much to the advantage of the taverns
and pastrycooks.

When in 1566 Queen Elizabeth visited Oxford, a play was performed before her in this hall by
the students, in the course of which, "a cry of hounds belonging to themselves" having been
counterfeited in the quadrangle, the students were seized with a sudden transport; whereat
her Majesty cried out, "O excellent! these boys in very truth are ready to leap out of the
window to follow the hounds."

Amid the many changes of taste and opinion since the days of Queen Bess, the love of hunting
still prevails in Christchurch, not one of the least healthy tastes, in an age of perpetual
competing work; and the Christchurch drag is one of the stock amusements anathematized toward
the end and permitted at the beginning of every hunting term, for the glory of the chief tuft
and the benefit of hard-reading men, who cannot waste their time in trotting from cover to
cover dependent on the vagaries of such an uncertain animal as a fox, and are therefore content
to hunt a "cad" armed with a red herring over the stiffest country he can pick.

After the Hall, the Kitchen should be visited.  It is the most ancient part of the building,
for Wolsey, with a truly ecclesiastical appreciation of the foundation of all sound learning,
began with the kitchen, and it survived him.  Agriculture, gardening, cooking, and confectionery,
were among the civilizing arts brought to great perfection by religious houses and lost for
a long period after the Reformation, which, like other strong medicines, cleared our heads
at the expense of our stomachs.

In Wolsey's kitchen may be seen the huge gridiron on which our ancestors roasted sheep whole
and prepared other barbarous disgusting dishes.

In the Peckwater Quadrangle are to be found the Library and the Guise collection of pictures,
which contains curious specimens of that early school which the mad mediaevalists are now fond
of imitating, and a few examples of the famous Italian masters who rose on the force of genius,
which did not disdain study but did disdain imitation.

Wickliff was a warden, and Sir Thomas More a student, in Canterbury Hall, which was amalgamated
in Wolsey's College.

The Chapel of Christchurch is the Cathedral of Oxford.  The oldest parts belonged to the church
of St. Frideswide's Priory, consecrated A.D. 1180. Wolsey pulled down fifty feet of the nave
and adapted it to the use of his college.  The stained glass windows, without which every Gothic
cathedral has a bare, naked, cold appearance, and which were peculiarly fine, nearly all fell
a sacrifice to puritanical bigotry.

For the many curious and beautiful architectural features we must refer in this instance, as
in all others, to the architectural guides, such as Parker's, with which every one who feels
any interest in the subject will provide himself.

Leaving Christchurch by the Canterbury Gate up Merton-lane, we pass on one hand Corpus Christi,
founded in the reign of Henry VIII., where Bishop Sewel, author of "The Laws of Ecclesiastical
Polity," and Richard Hooker, a Protestant whom even a Pope praised, were bred; on the other,
Oriel, where studied Walter Raleigh, one of England's greatest men, a poet and philosopher,
soldier and statesman, mariner and historian; not guiltless, yet worthy of pity in his fall
and long imprisonment, and of honour in his brave and Christian death,--the victim of the ever
feeble treacherous Stuarts.  What other line of kings has had the fate to sign away the lives
of two such men as Raleigh and Strafford?  Oriel also claims as students Prynne, who, with
his libels and his ears, laid the foundation of our liberty of the press; Bishop Butler, whose
"Analogy" showed how logic and philosophy could be applied to support the cause of Christian
truth; Dr. Arnold, the reformer of our modern school system, whom Oxford persecuted during
life and honoured in death; and lastly, the clever crotchety Archbishop Whateley, who has not
only proved that Napoleon Bonaparte never existed, but that Mr. Gibbon Wakefield's bankrupt
schemes of colonization were triumphant successes.  Next we come to Merton, the most ancient
of all the colleges, founded 7th January 1264.  The oldest of its buildings now standing is
the library, the oldest in England, erected 1377.  Wickliff was a student of Merton.  University
College, which next falls in our way, claims to date from King Alfred, but has no charters
so ancient as those of Merton.  The buildings are not more early than Charles I., but the chapel
contains some of Grinling Gibbons's best carvings, and a monument by Flaxman of Sir William
Jones, who was a fellow of this University.  The modern part, fronting High-street, is from
the designs of Barry, the architect of the Palace of Westminster.

University College has one of the old customs, of which several are retained in Oxford, called
"chopping at the tree."  On Easter Sunday a bough is dressed up with flowers and evergreens,
and laid on a turf by the buttery. After dinner each member, as he leaves the hall, takes up
a cleaver and chops at the tree, and then hands over "largess" to the cook, who stands by with
a plate.  The contribution is, for the master half a guinea, the fellows five shillings, and
other members half a crown each.  In like manner, at Queen's College, which stands opposite
University, on Christmas day a boar's head is brought into the hall in procession, while the
old carol is sung--

   The boar's head in hand bear I
   Bedecked with bays and rosemary,
   And I pray you, my masters, be merry.

While on New Year's day the bursar presents to every member a needle and thread with the words,
"Take this and be thrifty."  We have not been able to obtain a statistical return of the standing
of the Queen's men in the books of the tradesmen of Oxford as compared with members of other
colleges, but we recommend the question to Mr. Newdegate or some other Oxonian figure monger.

This college was founded by Philippa, queen of Edward III.  It was directed by the statutes
that there should be twelve fellows and seventy poor scholars, who were to be summoned to dinner
by the sound of a trumpet; when the fellows, clothed in scarlet robes, were to sit and eat,
while the poor scholars, kneeling in token of humility, were to dispute in philosophy.  The
kneeling, disputing, and scarlet robes have been discontinued, but the trumpet still sounds
to dinner.  There are usually about 300 members on the books of this college.

Lower down the High-street is All-Souls, whose two towers are picturesque centres of most views
of Oxford.  The buildings are various in character and merit, and well worth examination. 
The grand court was designed by Hawksmoor rather on the principles of a painter than an architect;
he wished it to make a good picture with the existing buildings, and he succeeded.  All-Souls
is composed entirely of fellows, who elect from other colleges gentlemen whose qualification
consists in being "bene nati, bene vestiti, et moderater docti in arte musica."

With so easy a qualification as that of being well born, well dressed, and able to sing the
Old Hundredth Psalm, Old King Cole, or Kilruddery, it may be imagined that All-Souls has never
done anything to disturb the minds of kings, cabinets, or reviewers, or even of the musical
critics.  Pleasant gentlemanly fellows, when they do get into parliament it is usually as the
advocates of deceased opinions.  Had Joanna Southcote been genteel, the fellows of All-Souls
and some other colleges would have continued Joanna Southcotians fifty years after her decease.

All-Souls, too, has its legend and its commemorative ceremony.  The diggers of the foundations
found in an old drain a monstrous mallard, a sort of alderman among wild ducks, thriving and
growing fat amid filth.  On being cooked he was found first-rate, and, in memory of this treasure-trove
and of the foundation-day, annually on the 14th January the best mallard that can be found
is brought in in state, all the mallardians chanting--

   O the swapping swapping mallard, etc.

From Queen's we proceed to New College, built in the palmiest days of Gothic architecture by
William of Wykeham, also architect of Windsor Castle and of Winchester Cathedral, of which
he was bishop, as well as Chancellor of England under Edward III.  He was indeed a learned,
pious, earnest man.  "A worker-out of the glorious dreams he dreamed."  According to his plan,
a certain number of poor boys, of origin as humble as his own, were to receive a training in
the best learning of the age; from these, the ablest were to be selected annually and sent
to New College, with the enjoyment of such an income as would support them while studying philosophy
and theology.  At present, after a year's probation, youths at eighteen or nineteen become
actual fellows, in enjoyment of an income varying from 190 to 250 pounds per annum, until such
time as they marry or are provided with a college living.

"Wykeham laid the first stone of his new college on the 5th March 1380.  Being finished, the
first warden and fellows took possession of it April 14, 1386, at three o'clock in the morning."
The original buildings consist of the principal quadrangle, containing the hall, chapel, and
library, the cloisters, and the tower.  Additions, quite out of keeping with the rich simplicity
of the original design, were made by Sir Christopher Wren.  The chapel, first shorn of its
ancient splendour by puritan zeal, and since restored in mistaken taste, is still one of the
most beautiful edifices of the kind in England,--perhaps in Europe.  Weeks of study will not
satisfy or exhaust the true student of Gothic architecture here.  We trust that, sooner or
later, some of the funds now spent on guttling and guzzling will be devoted to substituting
facsimiles of ancient coloured glass for the painted mistakes of Sir Joshua Reynolds, and restoring
the ancient glories of gilt and colour to the carved work.

If possible, the stranger should attend the service, when he will hear grand singing and accompanied
by a magnificent organ.  The silver gilt crozier of Wykeham, formerly studded with rich gems,
is one of the few relics of value preserved by New College.  Charles I. received the greater
part of a rich collection of plate as a contribution to his military chest in the great civil
war.  This crozier interests, for, gazing on it, we are carried back five centuries, when it
was not a bauble made in Birmingham, but a symbol of actual power and superior intelligence.
The sceptre of a prince of a church which then absorbed almost all the intellect and all the
learning of the age. The garden with its archery-ground, and the "Slipe," with its stables
and kennels, complete what was meant to be a temple of sacred learning and active piety, but
which has become a very Castle of Indolence, a sort of Happy Valley, for single men.  Winchester
School still retains its ancient character for scholarship.  (It is said to be almost impossible
to "pluck" a Wykehamist); but the foundation has been grossly abused, the elected being not
poor boys but the sons of wealthy clergymen and gentlemen, as indeed they had need be, for,
by another abuse, the parents of boys on the foundation have to pay about 40 pounds a-year
for their board.  But, when a boy, distinguished for diligence and ability among his fellows,
has been, at eighteen or nineteen years, elected to a Fellowship of New College, his work for
life is done,--no more need for exertion,--every incentive to epicurean rest.  Fine rooms,
a fine garden, a dinner daily the best in Oxford, served in a style of profusion and elegance
that leaves nothing to be desired, wine the choicest, New College ale most famous, a retiring-room,
where, in obsequious dignity, a butler waits on his commands, with fresh bottles of the strong
New College port, or ready to compound a variety of delicious drinks, amid which the New College
cyder cup and mint julep can be specially recommended.  Newspapers, magazines, and novels,
on the tables of both the junior and senior common rooms, and a stable for his horse and a
kennel for his dog, form part of this grand club of learned ignorance.  And so, in idle uselessness,
he spends life, unless by good fortune he falls in love and marries; even then, we pity his
wife and his cook for the first twelve months,--or, by reaction, flies into asceticism and
becomes a father of St. Philip Neri or a follower of Saint Pusseycat.

But, after all this virtuous remonstrance on the misdirection of William of Wykeham's noble
endowment, we must own that, of our Oxford acquaintance, none are more agreeable than those
New College fellows of the old school, "who wore shocking bad hats and asked you to dinner."
Much better than the cold- blooded "monks without mass" who are fast superseding them, just
as idle and more ill-natured.

From New College we will go on to Magdalen, the finest--the wealthiest of all: it cannot be
described, it must be seen; with its buildings occupying eleven acres and pleasure-grounds
a hundred acres, its tower whereon every May morning at daybreak a mass used to be and a carol
is still sung, and its deer-park.  Here we may say, as of New College, is too much luxury for
learning.

The sons of dukes have become mathematicians; we have known an attorney's clerk, the son of
a low publican, become an accomplished linguist in his leisure hours,--but such men are mental
miracles, almost monsters: a fellow of Magdalen or New College who works as hard as other men
deserves to be canonized.

We have not space to say anything of the other Colleges.  St. John's is noted for its gardens,
Pembroke because Samuel Johnson lodged there for as long a space as his poverty would permit.

The Colleges visited, we proceed to "The Schools," which contain the Bodleian Library, founded
by Sir Thomas Bodley in 1573, and by bequests, gifts from private individuals, by the expenditure
of a sum for the last seventy years out of the University chest, and the privilege of a copy
of every new British publication, has become one of the finest collections in Europe; especially
rich in Oriental literature.  The books are freely open to the use of all literary men properly
introduced, and the public are permitted to view the rooms three times a week.

The Picture Gallery contains a collection of portraits of illustrious individuals connected
with the University, by Holbein, Vandyke, Kneller, Reynolds, Wilkie, and others.  Among these
are Henry VIII., the Earl of Surrey, and Sir Thomas More, by Holbein.  Among the sculptures
are a bust of the Duke of Wellington by Chantrey, and a brass statue of the Earl of Pembroke,
Chancellor of the University from 1616 to 1630, which is said to have been executed from a
design by Rubens.

There is also a chair made from timber of the ship in which Drake sailed round the world, and
the lantern of Guy Fawkes.

On the ground floor are the Arundel marbles, brought from Smyrna in the seventeenth century
by the earl of that name.

The Theatre, close at hand, built by Sir Christopher Wren, will contain three thousand persons,
and should be seen to be appreciated when crowded by the elite of the University and of England,
on the occasion of some of the great Oxford festivals, when the rich costumes of the University,
scarlet, purple, and gold, are set off by the addition of England's beauty not unadorned; as,
for instance, on the last visit of the Queen and Prince Albert.

The Clarendon Press, built from designs of Vanbrugh out of the profits of the University (garbled)
edition of "Clarendon's History of the Great Rebellion," and the Ashmolean Museum, where may
be seen the head of the dodo, that extinct and deeply to be regretted bird, are close at hand,
as also the Radcliffe Library, from the dome of which an excellent view of the city may be
obtained.

The University Galleries, which present an imposing front to St. Giles- street, contain, beside
antique sculpture, the original models of all Chantrey's busts, and a collection of original
drawings of Michael Angelo and Raffaelle, made by Sir Thomas Lawrence, and purchased after
his death by the University, the present Earl of Eldon contributing two-thirds of the purchase-money.

CONSTITUTION AND COSTUME OF THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD.

The University is a corporate body, under the style of "The Chancellor, Masters, and Scholars
of the University of Oxford."  It includes nineteen Colleges and five Halls, each of which
is a corporate body, governed by its own head and statutes respectively.

The business of the University, as such, is carried on in the two Houses of Convocation and
of Congregation; the first being the House of Lords, and the other, which includes all of and
above the rank of Masters of Arts, the House of Commons.

The Chancellor--elected by Convocation, for life--never, according to etiquette, sets his foot
in the University, excepting on occasions of his installation, or when accompanying Royal visitors.
He nominates as his representative a Vice Chancellor from the heads of colleges, annually,
in turn, each of whom holds his office for four years.

The Vice Chancellor is the individual who may occasionally be seen walking about in state,
preceded by a number of beadles carrying maces, or, as they are profanely called, "pokers."

The two proctors are next in authority to the Vice Chancellor.  Their costume is a full dress
gown, with velvet sleeves, and band-encircled neck.  They are assisted by two deputies, or
pro-proctors, who have a strip of velvet on each side of the gown front, and wear bands.  The
proctors have certain legislative powers; but are most conspicuous as a detective police force,
supported by "bulldogs," i.e., constables.  A proctor is regarded by an undergraduate, especially
by a fast man, with the same affection that a costermonger looks on a policeman.  In the evenings,
it is their duty to prowl round, and search, if necessary, any house within three miles, for
so far does their authority extend.  The dread of the proctor compels tandem drivers to send
their leaders a distance out of town; and many an excited youth, on the day of a neighbouring
steeplechase, is stopped, when driving out of the city, with--"Your name, sir, and of what
college?"

"Lord R.  Christchurch."

"Go back to your rooms, my lord, and call on me in an hour at Worcester."

The members of the University are divided into those who are on the foundation and those who
are not.  Those on the foundation are the dean, president, master, warden, according to the
charter of the College; the fellows, scholars, called demies at Magdalene, and post-masters
at Merton; chaplains, bible-clerks, servitors, at Christchurch and Jesus.  The qualifications
for these advantages vary; but leading colleges--Oriel and Balliol--have set an example likely
to be followed of throwing fellowships and scholarships open to the competition of the whole
university, so that the best man may win.  The disadvantage of the system lies in the fact,
that having won, the incentives are all in the direction of idleness.

The degree was formerly obtained by passing first through a preliminary examination termed
a "little go," and afterwards through the "great go."  The latter, successfully performed,
entitles, at choice, to the title of B.A. (Bachelor of Arts), or S.C.L. (Student of Civil Law).
With time and money, the degrees of M.A. or B.C.L., and eventually D.C.L., may be obtained,
without farther examination.  But very recently an intermediate examination has been imposed.

A candidate for a degree in music has only to perform an exercise previously approved by the
professor of music in the music schools.

Doctors of Divinity and Masters of Arts wear a stuff gown, with two long sleeves, terminating
in a semicircle.  The full dress of Doctors of Divinity is scarlet, with sleeves of black velvet--pink
silk for Doctors of Law and Medicine.

The expense of maintaining a son at the University may be fixed at from 200 pounds, as a minimum,
to 300 pounds a-year; the latter being the utmost needful.  But a fool may spend any amount,
and get nothing for it.  The fashion of drinking has gone out to a great extent; and the present
race of undergraduates are not more random and extravagant than any set of young men of the
same age and number would be if thrown together for two or three years.

At the same time, it is not the place to which a father to whom economy is an object should
send a son, least of all one previously educated on the milk and water stay-at-home principle.

As a general rule, it is not among the nobility, and sons of the wealthy gentry, that much
excess is found to prevail; but among those who at the University find themselves for the first
time without control, with money and with credit at command.

In a summer or autumnal visit, Christchurch Meadow, and some of the many beautiful walks round
Oxford, should be sought out and visited alone; on such occasions, on no account be tormented
with one of the abominable parrot-like guides.  These horrid fellows consider it their duty
to chatter.  We have often thought that a dumb guide, with a book for answering questions,
would make a great success.

In winter, when the flooded meadows are frozen over, those who love to see an army of first-class
skaters will find an Oxford day ticket well worth the money--youth, health, strength, grace,
and manly beauty, in hundreds, cutting round and round, with less of drawback from the admixture
of a squalid mob than in any other locality.

And then again in the hunting season, take the ugliest road out of Oxford, by the seven bridges,
because there you may see farthest along the straight highway from the crown of the bridges,
and number the ingenuous youth as on hunters they pace, or in hack or in dogcart or tandem
they dash along to the "Meet."  Arrived there, if the fox does get away--if no ambitious youngster
heads him back--if no steeplechasing lot ride over the scent and before the hounds, to the
destruction of sport and the master's temper--why then you will see a fiery charge at fences
that will do your heart good.  There is not such raw material for cavalry in any other city
in Europe, and there is no part of our social life so entirely novel, and so well worth exhibiting
to a foreigner, as a "Meet" near Oxford, where in scarlet and in black, in hats and in velvet
caps, in top-boots and black-jacks, on twenty pound hacks and two hundred guinea hunters, finest
specimens of Young England are to be seen.

On returning, if the sport has been good, you may venture to open a chat with a well-splashed
fellow traveller on a beaten horse, but in going not--for an Oxford man in his normal state
never speaks unless he has been introduced.

The only local manufactures of Oxford, except gentlemen, are boots, leather- breeches, and
boats; these last in great perfection.  The regattas and rowing-matches on the Isis are very
exciting affairs.  From the narrowness of the stream, they are rather chases than races; the
winners cannot pass, but must pursue and bump their competitors.  The many silent, solitary
wherries, urged by vigorous skilful arms, give, on a summer evening, a pleasing life to river-side
walks, although that graceful flower, the pretty pink bonnet and parasol, peculiar to the waters
of Richmond and Hampton, is not often found growing in the Oxford wherry.  Comedies, in the
shape of slanging matches with the barges, are less frequent than formerly, and melodramatic
fistic combats still less frequent.

But old boatmen still love to relate to their peaceable and admiring pupils how that pocket
Hercules, the Honourable S--- C---, now a pious clergyman, had a single combat with a saucy
six foot bargee, "all alone by they two selves," bunged up both his eyes, and left him all
but dead to time, ignorant then, and for months after, of the name of his victor.

Oxford sometimes contends with Cambridge on neutral waters in an eight-oared cutter match,
but is generally defeated, for a very characteristic reason--Cambridge picks a crew of the
best men from the whole University; Oxford, more exclusive, gives a preference to certain colleges
over men. Christchurch, Magdalene, and a few others, will take the lead in all arrangements,
and will not, if they can help it, admit oarsmen from the unfashionable colleges of Jesus,
Lincoln, or Worcester!

It is worth knowing that in the long vacation, commencing on July 6, there is no place like
Oxford for purchasing good dogs and useful horses.  Oxford hacks have long been famous, and
not without reason.  Nothing slow would be of any use, whether for saddle or harness; and although
the proportion of high-priced sound unblemished animals may be small, the number of quick runners
is large.  There is an establishment in Holywell Street which is quite one of the Oxford sights.
There, early in winter mornings, more than a hundred stalls are to be found, full of blood
cattle, in tip-top condition, and on summer afternoons no barracks of a cavalry regiment changing
quarters are more busy.

We must not leave Oxford without visiting Blenheim, the monument of one of our greatest captains
and statesmen, with whom, perhaps, in genius and fortune, none can rank except Clive and Wellington.
Blenheim should be seen when the leaves are on the trees.  The House is only open between eleven
o'clock and one.  The better plan is to hire a conveyance, of which there are plenty and excellent
to be had in the city, at reasonable charges.  When we remember this splendid pile--voted by
acclamation, but paid for by grudging and insufficient instalments by the English Parliament--was
finished under the superintendence of that beautiful fiery termagant, Sarah Duchess of Marlborough,
who was at once the plague and the delight of the great Duke's life, every stone and every
tree must be viewed with interest.  We should advise you, before passing a day at Blenheim,
to refresh your memory with the correspondence of the age of Queen Anne and her successors,
including Swift, Bolingbroke, Pope, and Walpole; not forgetting the letters of Duchess Sarah
herself, and Disraeli's "Curiosities of Literature," for the history of the building of Blenheim,
and how the Duchess worried the unfortunate architect, Vanbrugh.

Blenheim contains a large number of first class paintings, including an altar-piece by Raffaelle,
several good Titians, a very fine collection of Rubens, choice specimens of Vandyke and Sir
Joshua Reynolds.  After returning to Bletchley our next halt is at Wolverton station.

WOLVERTON STATION.

Wolverton, the first specimen of a railway town built on a plan to order, is the central manufacturing
and repairing shop for the locomotives north of Birmingham.

The population entirely consists of men employed in the Company's service, as mechanics, guards,
enginemen, stokers, porters, labourers, their wives and children, their superintendents, a
clergyman, schoolmasters and schoolmistresses, the ladies engaged on the refreshment establishment,
and the tradesmen attracted to Wolverton by the demand of the population.

This railway colony is well worth the attention of those who devote themselves to an investigation
of the social condition of the labouring classes.

We have here a body of mechanics of intelligence above average, regularly employed for ten
and a-half hours during five days, and for eight hours during the sixth day of the week, well
paid, well housed, with schools for their children, a reading-room and mechanics' institution
at their disposal, gardens for their leisure hours, and a church and clergyman exclusively
devoted to them.  When work is ended, Wolverton is a pure republic--equality reigns.  There
are no rich men or men of station: all are gentlemen.  In theory it is the paradise of Louis
Blanc, only that, instead of the State, it is a Company which pays and employs the army of
workmen.  It is true, that during work hours a despotism rules, but it is a mild rule, tempered
by customs and privileges.  And what are the results of this colony, in which there are none
idle, none poor, and few uneducated?  Why, in many respects gratifying, in some respects disappointing.
The practical reformer will learn more than one useful lesson from a patient investigation
of the social state of this great village.

[THE WOLVERTON VIADUCT: ill8.jpg]

Those who have not been in the habit of mixing with the superior class of English skilled mechanics
will be agreeably surprised by the intelligence, information, and educational acquirements
of a great number of the workmen here.  They will find men labouring for daily wages capable
of taking a creditable part in political, literary, and scientific discussion; but at the same
time the followers of George Sand, and French preachers of proletarian perfection will not
find their notions of the ennobling effects of manual labour realised.

There are exceptions, but as a general rule, after a hard day's work, a man is not inclined
for study of any kind, least of all for the investigation of abstract sciences; and thus it
is that at Wolverton library, novels are much more in demand than scientific treatises.

In Summer, when walks in the fields are pleasant, and men can work in their gardens, the demand
for books of any kind falls off.

Turning from the library to the mechanics' institution, pure science is not found to have many
charms for the mechanics of Wolverton.  Geological and astronomical lectures are ill attended,
while musical entertainments, dissolving views, and dramatic recitations are popular.

It must be confessed that dulness and monotony exercise a very unfavourable influence on this
comfortable colony.  The people, not being Quakers, are not content without amusement.  They
receive their appointed wages regularly, so that they have not even the amusement of making
and losing money.  It would be an excellent thing for the world if the kind, charitable, cold-blooded
people of middle age, or with middle-aged heads and hearts, who think that a population may
be ruled into an every-day life of alternate work, study, and constitutional walks, without
anything warmer than a weak simper from year's end to year's end, would consult the residents
of Wolverton and Crewe before planning their next parallelogram.

We commend to amateur actors, who often need an audience, the idea of an occasional trip to
Wolverton.  The audience would be found indulgent of very indifferent performances.

But to turn from generalities to the specialities for which Wolverton is distinguished, we
will walk round the workshops by which a rural parish has been colonised and reduced to a town
shape.

* * * * *

WOLVERTON WORKSHOPS.--To attempt a description of the workshops of Wolverton without the aid
of diagrams and woodcuts would be a very unsatisfactory task. It is enough to say that they
should be visited not only by those who are specially interested in machinery, but by all who
would know what mechanical genius, stimulated as it has been to the utmost during the last
half century, by the execution of profitable inventions, has been able to effect.

At Wolverton may be seen collected together in companies, each under command of its captains
or foremen, in separate workshops, some hundreds of the best handicraftsmen that Europe can
produce, all steadily at work, not without noise, yet without confusion.  Among them are a
few men advanced in life of the old generation; there are men of middle age; young men trained
with all the manual advantages of the old generation, and all the book and lecture privileges
of the present time; and then there are the rising generation of apprentices--the sons of steam
and of railroads.  Among all it would be difficult to find a bad-shaped head, or a stupid face--as
for a drunkard not one.  It was once remarked to us by a gentleman at the head of a great establishment
of this kind, that there was something about the labour of skilled workmen in iron that impressed
itself upon their countenances, and showed itself in their characters.  Something of solidity,
of determination, of careful forethought; and really after going over many shops of ironworkers,
we are inclined to come to the same opinion.  Machinery, while superseding, has created manual
labour.  In a steam-engine factory, machinery is called upon to do what no amount of manual
labour could effect.

To appreciate the extraordinary amount of intellect and mental and manual dexterity daily called
into exercise, it would be necessary to have the origin, progress to construction, trial, and
amendment of a locomotive engine from the period that the report of the head of the locomotive
department in favour of an increase of stock receives the authorization of the board of directors.
But such a history would be a book itself.  After passing through the drawing-office, where
the rough designs of the locomotive engineer are worked out in detail by a staff of draughtsmen,
and the carpenters' shop and wood-turners, where the models and cores for castings are prepared,
we reach, but do not dwell on the dark lofty hall, where the castings in iron and in brass
are made.  The casting of a mass of metal of from five to twenty tons on a dark night is a
fine sight.  The tap being withdrawn the molten liquor spouts forth in an arched fiery continuous
stream, casting a red glow on the half-dressed muscular figures busy around, which would afford
a subject for an artist great in Turner or Danby-like effects.

But we hasten to the steam-hammer to see scraps of tough iron, the size of a crown-piece, welded
into a huge piston, or other instrument requiring the utmost strength.  At Wolverton the work
is conducted under the supreme command of the Chief Hammerman, a huge-limbed, jolly, good-tempered
Vulcan, with half a dozen boy assistants.

The steam-hammer, be it known, is the application of steam to a piston under complete regulation,
so that the piston, armed with a hammer, regularly, steadily, perpendicularly descends as desired,
either with the force of a hundred tons or with a gentle tap, just sufficient to drive home
a tin tack and no more.  At a word it stops midway in stroke, and at a word again it descends
with a deadly thump.  On our visit, an attempt was being made to execute in wrought, what had
hitherto always been made in cast iron.  Success would effect a great saving in weight.  The
doors of the furnace were drawn back, and a white glow, unbearable as the noon-day sun, was
made visible, long hooked iron poles were thrust in to fish for the prize, and presently a
great round mass of metal was poked out to the door of the fiery furnace--a huge roll of glowing
iron, larger than it was possible for any one or two men to lift, even had it been cold.  By
ingenious contrivances it was slipped out upon a small iron truck, dragged to the anvil of
the steam-hammer, and under the direction of Vulcan, not without his main strength, lodged
upon the block.

During the difficult operation of moving the white-red round ball, it was beautiful to see
the rapid disciplined intelligence by which the hammerman, with word or sign, regulated the
movements of his young assistants, each armed with an iron lever.

At length the word was given, and thump, thump, like an earthquake the steam- hammer descended,
rapidly reducing the red-hot Dutch cheese shape to the flatter proportions of a mighty Double
Gloucester, all the while the great smith was turning and twisting it about so that each part
should receive its due share of hammering, and that the desired shape should be rapidly attained,
sometimes with one hand, sometimes with the other, he interposed a flat poker between the red
mass and the hammer, sharing a vibration that was powerful enough to dislocate the shoulder
of any lesser man.  "Hold," he cried: the elephant-like machine stopped.  He took and hauled
the great ball into a new position.  "Go on," he shouted: the elephant machine went on, and
again the red sparks flew as though a thousand Homeric blacksmiths had been striking in unison,
until it was time again to thrust the half-welded cheese into the fiery furnace, and again
it was dragged forth, and the jolly giant bent, and tugged, and sweated, and commanded,--he
did not swear over his task. At length having succeeded in making the unwieldy lump assume
an approach to the desired shape, he observed, in a deep, bass, chuckling, triumphant aside,
to the engineer who was looking on, "I'm not a very little one, but I think if I was as big
again you'd try what I was made of."

Since that day we have learned that the experiment has been completely successful, with a great
diminution in the weight and an increase of the strength of an important part of a locomotive.

We have dwelt upon the picture because it combined mechanical with manual dexterity.  A hammerman
who might sit for one of Homer's blacksmith heroes, and machinery which effects in a few minutes
what an army of such hammermen could not do.

If our painters of mythological Vulcans and sprawling Satyrs want to display their powers over
flesh and muscle, they may find something real and not vulgar among our iron factories.

After seeing the operations of forging or of casting, we may take a walk round the shops of
the turners and smiths.  In some, Whitworth's beautiful self-acting machines are planing or
polishing or boring holes, under charge of an intelligent boy; in others lathes are ranged
round the walls, and a double row of vices down the centre of the long rooms.  Solid masses
of cast or forged metal are carved by the keen powerful lathe tools like so much box- wood,
and long shavings of iron and steel sweep off as easily as deal shavings from a carpenter's
plane.  At the long row of vices the smiths are hammering and filing away with careful dexterity.
No mean amount of judgment in addition to the long training needed for acquiring manual skill,
is requisite before a man can be admitted into this army of skilled mechanics; for every locomotive
contains many hundred pieces, each of which must be fitted as carefully as a watch.

If we fairly contemplate the result of these labours, created by the inventive genius of a
line of ingenious men, headed by Watt and Stephenson, these workshops are a more imposing sight
than the most brilliant review of disciplined troops.  It is not mere strength, dexterity,
and obedience, upon which the locomotive builder calculates for the success of his design,
but also upon the separate and combined intelligence of his army of mechanics.

Considering that in annually increasing numbers, factories for the building of locomotive,
of marine steam-engines, of iron ships, and of various kinds of machinery, are established
in different parts of the kingdom, and that hence every year education becomes more needed,
more valued, and more extended among this class of mechanics, it is impossible to doubt that
the training, mental and moral, obtained in factories like those of Wolverton, Crewe, Derby,
Swindon, and other railway shops, and in great private establishments like Whitworth's and
Roberts' of Manchester, Maudslay and Field's of London, Ransome and May of Ipswich, Wilson
of Leeds, and Stephenson of Newcastle, must produce by imitative inoculation a powerful effect
on the national character.  The time has passed when the best workmen were the most notorious
drunkards; in all skilled trades self-respect has made progress.

A few passenger carriages are occasionally built at Wolverton as experiments. One, the invention
of Mr. J. M'Connel, the head of the locomotive department, effects several important improvements.
It is a composite carriage of corrugated iron, lined with wood to prevent unpleasant vibration,
on six wheels, the centre wheels following the leading wheels round curves by a very ingenious
arrangement.  This carriage holds sixty second-class passengers and fifteen first-class, beside
a guard's brake, which will hold five more; all in one body.  The saving in weight amounts
to thirty-five per cent.  A number of locomotives have lately been built from the designs of
the same eminent engineer, to meet the demands of the passenger traffic in excursion trains
for July and August, 1851.

It must be understood that although locomotives are built at Wolverton, only a small proportion
of the engines used on the line are built by the company, and the chief importance of the factory
at Wolverton is as a repairing shop, and school for engine-drivers.

Every engine has a number.  When an engine on any part of the lines in connection with Wolverton
needs repair, it is forwarded with a printed form, filled up and signed by the superintendent
of the station near which the engine has been working.  As thus--"Engine 60, axle of driving-wheel
out of gauge, fire-box burned out," etc.

This invoice or bill of particulars is copied into a sort of day-book, to be eventually transferred
into the account in the ledger, in which No. 60 has a place.

The superintendent next in command under the locomotive engineer-in-chief, places the lame
engine in the hands of the foreman who happens to be first disengaged.  The foreman sets the
workmen he can spare at the needful repairs.  When completed, the foreman makes a report, which
is entered in the ledger, opposite the number of the engine, stating the repairs done, the
men's names who did it, and how many days, hours, and quarters of an hour each man was employed.
The engine reported sound is then returned to its station, with a report of the repairs which
have been effected.  The whole work is completed on the principle of a series of links of responsibility.
The engineer-in-chief is answerable to the directors for the efficiency of the locomotives;
he examines the book, and depends on his superintendent.  The superintendent depends on the
foreman to whom the work was entrusted; and, should the work be slurred, must bear the shame,
but can turn upon the workmen he selected for the job.

In fact, the whole work of this vast establishment is carried on by dividing the workmen into
small companies, under the superintendence of an officer responsible for the quantity and quality
of the work of his men.

The history of each engine, from the day of launching, is so kept, that, so long as it remains
in use, every separate repair, with its date and the names of the men employed on it, can be
traced.  Allowing, therefore, for the disadvantage as regards economy of a company, as compared
with private individuals, the system at Wolverton is as effective as anything that could well
be imagined.

The men employed at Wolverton station in March, 1851, numbered 775, of whom 4 were overlookers,
9 were foremen, 4 draughtsmen, 15 clerks, 32 engine- drivers, 21 firemen, and 119 labourers;
the rest were mechanics and apprentices.  The weekly wages amounted to 929 pounds 11s. 10d.

Of course these men have, for the most part, wives and families, and so with shopkeepers, raise
the population of the railway town of Wolverton to about 2,000, inhabiting a series of uniform
brick houses, in rectangular streets, about a mile distant from the ancient parish church of
Wolverton, and the half-dozen houses constituting the original parish.

For the benefit of this population, the directors have built a church, schools for boys, for
girls, and for infants, which are not the least remarkable or interesting parts of this curious
town.

The clergyman of the railway church, the Rev. George Waight, M.A., has been resident at Wolverton
from the commencement of the railway buildings.  His difficulties are great; but he is well
satisfied with his success.  In railway towns there is only one class, and that so thoroughly
independent, that the influence of the clergyman can only rest with his character and talents.

The church is thinly attended in the morning, for hard-working men like to indulge in rest
one day in the week; in the evening it is crowded, and the singing far above average.

To the schools we should like to have devoted a whole chapter now, but must reserve an account
of one of the most interesting results of railway enterprise.

There is a literary and scientific institution, with a library attached. Scientific lectures
and scientific books are very little patronized at Wolverton; astronomy and geology have few
students; but there is a steady demand for a great number of novels, voyages, and travels;
and musical entertainments are well supported.

The lecture-room is extremely miserable, quite unfit for a good concert, as there is not even
a retiring room, but the directors are about to build a better one, and while they are about
it, they might as well build a small theatre.  Some such amusement is much needed; for want
of relaxation in the monotony of a town composed of one class, without any public amusements,
the men are driven too often to the pipe and pot, and the women to gossip.

In the summer, the gardens which form a suburb are much resorted to, and the young men go to
cricket and football; but still some amusements, in which all the members of every family could
join, would improve the moral tone of Wolverton.

Work, wages, churches, schools, libraries, and scientific lectures are not alone enough to
satisfy a large population of any kind, certainly not a population of hard-handed workers.

* * * * *

WOLVERTON EMBANKMENT was one of the difficulties in railway making, which at one period interested
the public; at present it is not admitted among engineers that there are any difficulties.
The ground was a bog, and as fast as earth was tipped in at the top it bulged out at the bottom.
When, after great labour, this difficulty had been overcome, part of the embankment, fifty
feet in height, which contained alum shale, decomposed, and spontaneous combustion ensued.
The amazement of the villagers was great, but finally they came to the conclusion expressed
by one of them, in "Dang it, they can't make this here railway arter all, and they've set it
o' fire to cheat their creditors."

On leaving Wolverton, before arriving at Roade, a second-class station, after clearing a short
cutting, looking westerly, we catch a glimpse of the tower of the church of Grafton, where,
according to tradition, Edward IV. married Lady Gray of Groby.  The last interview between
Henry VIII. and Cardinal Campeggio, relative to his divorce from Catherine of Aragon, took
place at the Mansion House of this parish, which was demolished in 1643.

About this spot we enter Northamptonshire, and passing Roade, pause at Blisworth station, where
there is a neat little inn.

BLISWORTH, NORTHAMPTON.

Miles.                 Miles.
            BLISWORTH.       34.5  OUNDLE.
  4.75 NORTHAMPTON.     40.75 WANSFORD.
15.75 WELLINGBOROUGH.        STAMFORD by Coach.
20    HIGHAM FERRERS.  47.25 PETERBOROUGH.
26    THRAPSTON.

From Blisworth branches out the line to Peterborough, with sixteen stations, of which we name
above the more important.

The route presents a constant succession of beautiful and truly English rural scenery, of rich
lowland pastures, watered by the winding rivers, and bounded by hills, on which, like sentinels,
a row of ancient church towers stand.

The first station is Northampton.

* * * * *

NORTHAMPTON, on a hill on the banks of the river Nene, is a remarkably pleasant town, with
several fine old buildings, an ancient church, an open market square, neat clean streets, and
suburbs of pretty villas, overlooking, from the hill top, fat green meadows, flooded in winter.
Shoemaking on a wholesale scale, is the principal occupation of the inhabitants.  For strong
shoes Northampton can compete in any foreign market, and a good many light articles, cut after
French patterns, have been successfully made since the trade was thrown open by Peel's tariff.
There are several factories, in which large numbers of young persons are employed, but the
majority work by the piece at home for the master manufacturers.

Northampton is also great in the fairs and markets of a rich agricultural district, and rejoices
over races twice a year, in which the facilities of the railroad have rendered some compensation
to the inn-keepers for the loss of the coaching trade.  Northampton was originally intended
to be a main station of the railway between London and Birmingham.  The inhabitants were silly
enough to resist the bestowal of this benefit upon them, and unfortunate enough to be successful
in their resistance.  In after years, when experience had rendered fools wise, they were glad
to obtain the present branch through to Peterborough; but the injury of the ill-judged opposition
can never be cured.

The church of All Saints, in the centre of the town, has an ancient embattled tower which escaped
the great fire of 1675.  St. Peter's, near the West Bridge, a remarkably curious specimen of
enriched Norman; St. Sepulchre's, a round church of the twelfth century, all deserve enumeration.
There are also two hospitals, the only remains of many religious houses which existed before
the Reformation.  St. John's consists of a chapel and a large hall, with apartments for inferior
poor persons; St. Thomas's is for twenty poor alms- women.  No vestiges, beyond the earthworks,
remain of the castle built by Simon de St. Liz, who was created Earl of Northampton by William
the Conqueror.  Northampton was a royal residence during the reigns of Richard I., John, and
Henry III.; a battlefield during the wars of the Barons and the wars of the Roses; but the
ancient character of the town was almost entirely destroyed by the great fire of 1675,--not
without benefit to the health, though at the expense of the picturesqueness of this ancient
borough.

Northampton is important as the capital town of one of our finest grazing and hunting counties,
where soil and climate are both favourable to the farmer.

Large numbers of the Scotch, Welch, and Herefords sold in Smithfield, are fed in the yards
and finished in the pastures of Northamptonshire.

The present Earl of Spencer keeps up, on a limited scale, the herd of short- horns which were
so celebrated during the lifetime of his brother, better known as Lord Althorpe,--at his seat
of Althorpe, six miles from the town, and also carries on a little fancy farming.  The late
Earl of Spencer was much more successful as a breeder than as a farmer; indeed, it may be questioned
whether the prejudices of that amiable and excellent man in favour of pasture land, did not
exercise an injurious influence over the proceedings of the Royal Agricultural Association.

Northampton returns two members to Parliament, and has a mayor and corporation.

The railway route from Northampton to Peterborough presents a series of pleasant views on either
side,--so pleasant that he who has leisure should walk, or ride on horseback, along the line
of Saxon villages, visit the series of curious churches at Wellingborough, Higham Ferrers,
with its collegiate church and almshouse, Thrapston and Oundle, and other stations. Within
two miles of Thrapston is Drayton House, Lowick, the seat of the Sackville family, which retains
many of the features of an ancient castle, and has a gallery of paintings by the old masters.
The church of Lowick contains several monuments, brasses, and windows of stained glass.  Near
Oundle is to be found the earthwork of Fotheringay Castle, where Mary Queen of Scots was confined,
tried, and executed.  The castle itself was levelled to the ground by order of her son, James
I.  On leaving Oundle we pass a station appurtenant to Wansford in England, of which we shall
say a word presently.

Here we may take coach across to Stamford in Lincolnshire (see Stamford), unless we prefer
the rail from Peterborough.  There is a point somewhere hereabouts where the three counties
of Northampton, Lincoln, and Huntingdon all meet.

* * * * *

WANSFORD IN ENGLAND.--If about to investigate the antiquities of Stamford or Peterborough,
the traveller will do well to stop at Wansford for the sake of one of the best inns in Europe,
well known under the sign of "The Haycock at Wansford in England."  This sign represents a
man stretched floating on a haycock, apparently in conversation with parties on a bridge. 
It is intended to illustrate the legend of Drunken Barnaby, who, travelling during the time
of the plague from London northward, tasting and criticising the ale on the road, drank so
much of the Northamptonshire brewst that he fell asleep on a haycock, in one of the flat meadows.
In the night time, as is often the case in this part of the country, a sudden flood arose,
and our toper awaked to find himself floating on a great tide of water, which at length brought
him to a bridge, upon which, hailing the passengers, he asked, "Where am I?" in full expectation
of having floated to France or Spain; whereupon they answered, "at Wansford."  "What!" he exclaimed
in ecstacy, "Wansford in England!" and landing, drank the ale and gave a new name to the inn
of this village between three counties.  The inn (which belongs to the Duke of Bedford) affords
a sort of accommodation which the rapid travelling and short halts of railways have almost
abolished.  But an easy rent, a large farm, and a trade in selling and hiring hunters, enables
the landlord to provide as comfortably for his guests, as when, in old posting days, five dukes
made the Haycock their night halt at one time.  On entering the well carpeted coffee- room,
with its ample screen, blazing fire, and plentiful allowance of easy chairs, while a well appointed
tempting dinner is rapidly and silently laid on the spotless table-cloth,--the tired sportsman
or traveller will be inclined to fancy that he is visitor to some wealthy squire rather than
the guest of an innkeeper.  When we add that the bed-rooms match the sitting- rooms, that the
charges are moderate, that the Pytchley, Earl Fitzwilliam's, and the Duke of Rutland's hounds
(the Beevor), meet within an easy distance; that the county abounds in antiquities, show-houses
like Burleigh, that pleasant woodland rides are within a circle of ten miles, that good pike-
fishing is to be had nearly all the year round, while in retirement Wansford is complete; we
have said enough to show that it is well worth the notice of a large class of travellers,--from
young couples on their first day's journey, to old gentlemen travelling north and needing quiet
and a bottle of old port.

The last station, Peterborough, presents an instance of a city without population, without
manufactures, without trade, without a good inn, or even a copy of the Times, except at the
railway station; a city which would have gone on slumbering to the present hour without a go-a-head
principle of any kind, and which has nevertheless, by the accident of situation, had railway
greatness thrust upon it in a most extraordinary manner.

* * * * *

PETERBOROUGH is one of the centres from which radiate three lines to London, viz., by the Northampton
route, on which we have travelled; by the direct line, through Herts, of the Great Northern;
and by the Eastern Counties, with all its Norfolk communications.  From Peterborough also proceeds
an arm of the Midland Counties, through Stamford, Oldham, and Melton Mowbray, and the best
Leicestershire grass country, to Leicester or to Nottingham,--while the Great Northern, dividing,
embraces the whole of Lincolnshire and makes way to Hull, by the Humber ferries, on the one
hand, and to York on the other.  There is, therefore, the best of consolation on being landed
in this dull inhospitable city, that it is the easiest possible thing to leave it.

Peterborough dates from the revival of Christianity among the Saxons; destroyed by the Danes
A.D. 870, rebuilt by Edgar in 970, it was attacked and plundered by Saxon insurgents from the
fens under Hereward the Wake, in the time of William the Conqueror.  At the dissolution of
religious houses under Henry VIII., Peterborough was one of the most magnificent abbeys, and,
having been selected as the seat of one of the new bishoprics, the buildings were preserved
entire.  In the civil wars, the Lady Chapel and several conventual buildings were pulled down
and the materials sold.  At present the cathedral is a regular cruciform structure of Norman
character, remarkable for the solidity of its construction.

It was commenced 1117, by John de Saiz, a Norman.  The chancel was finished, A.D. 1140, by
Abbot Martin de Vecti.  The great transept and a portion of the central tower were built by
Abbot William de Vaudeville, A.D.  1160 to 1175, and the nave by Abbot Benedict 1177-1193.
The fitting up of the choir is of woodwork richly carved.  The greater number of the monuments,
shrines, and chantry chapels, were destroyed by the Parliamentary troops.  Two queens lie buried
here, Catherine of Aragon and Mary of Scotland, without elegy or epitaph, monument or tombstone.

The Cathedral viewed, nothing remains to detain the traveller in this peculiarly stupid city.
Within a pleasant ride of five miles lies Milton House, the seat of Earl Fitzwilliam.

* * * * *

STAMFORD.--Although Stamford is not upon this line of railway, travellers passing near should
not fail to visit so ancient and interesting a town.  Few English boroughs can trace back more
distinctly their antiquity.  Six churches still remain of the fifteen which, beside many conventual
buildings, formerly adorned it.  For Stamford was one of the towns which, had not the Reformation
intervened, would have been swallowed up by the ever hungry ecclesiastical maw.  Stamford awakens
many historic recollections.  It has a place in Domesday Book, being there styled Stanford:
King Stephen had an interview there with Ranulph, Earl of Chester.  In 1190, the Jews of Stamford
were plundered and slain by the recruits proceeding to the crusades; and, ten years afterwards,
when Edward I. expelled the Jews from England, "their synagogue and noble library at Stamford
were profaned and sold."  Many of the books were purchased by Gregory of Huntingdon, a monk
of Ramsey Abbey, a diligent student of ancient languages; and thus the result of much learning,
collected in Spain and Italy, and handed down from the times when the Jews and Arabs almost
alone cultivated literature as well as commerce, was sown in England, the last of European
kingdoms to become distinguished in letters. Stamford was the refuge of Oxford students on
the occasion of disturbances in 1333.  It was taken by the Lancastrian army of the North under
Queen Margaret in 1461, and given up to plunder; and, in 1462, when thirty thousand Lincolnshire
men marched, under the command of Sir Robert Wells, against Edward IV., under the walls of
Stamford they were defeated, and, flying, left their coats behind.  But the latest battles
of Stamford have been between Whig and Tory, and even these have ceased.

The houses and public buildings are all built of a rich cream-coloured stone, which gives an
air of cleanliness and even distinction, which is an immense advantage.  There are two fine
hotels.  The borough returns two members, both nominated by the Marquis of Exeter, who owns
a large proportion of the vote- giving houses.  The bull-running has been abolished here, as
also at Tutbury, in Staffordshire; but those who are curious to see the ceremony may have occasional
opportunities in the neighbourhood of Smithfield market, where it is performed under the especial
patronage of the aldermen of the city of London.

WEEDON.

The next station after Blisworth is Weedon, properly, Weedon Bec, so called because formerly
there was established here a religious house, or cell, to the Abbey of Bec in Normandy.  The
Church, a very ancient building, contains portions of Norman, and various styles of English,
architecture.

[BRIDGE IN THE BLISWORTH EMBANKMENT:  ill9.jpg]

The importance of Weedon rests in its being the site of a strongly fortified central depot
for artillery, small arms, and ammunition, with extensive barracks, well worth seeing, but
not to be seen without an order from the Board of Ordnance.  In passing, a few mild soldiers
may be seen fishing for roach in the canal, and a few active ones playing cricket in summer.
The Weedon system of fortification eschews lofty towers and threatening battlemented walls,
and all that constitutes the picturesque; so that Weedon Barracks look scarcely more warlike
than a royal rope manufactory.

After Weedon we pass through Kilsby Tunnel, 2,423 yards long, which was once one of the wonders
of the world; but has been, by the progress of railway works, reduced to the level of any other
long dark hole.

[VIEW FROM THE TOP OF KILSBY TUNNEL:  ill10.jpg]

RUGBY AND ITS RAILWAYS.

Rugby, 83 miles from London, the centre of a vast network of railways, is our next halting place.

That is to say, First, an arm of the Midland to Leicester, to Burton, to Derby, to Nottingham,
and through Melton Mowbray to Stamford and Peterborough; thus intersecting a great agricultural
and a great manufacturing district.

Second, the Trent Valley Line, through Atherstone, Tamworth and Lichfield, to Stafford, and
by cutting off the Birmingham curve, forming part of the direct line to Manchester.

Third, A line to Leamington, which may be reached from this point in three- quarters of an
hour; and fourth, a direct line to Stamford, by way of Market Harborough; which, with the Leamington
line, affords the most direct conveyance from Norfolk, and Lincolnshire, through Peterborough
to Birmingham, Gloucester, and all that midland district.

The Oxford and Rugby Line, which was one of the subjects of the celebrated Battles of the Gauges,
has not been constructed; and it may be doubted whether it ever will.

The town lies about a mile from the station on the banks of the Avon, and owes all its importance
to Laurence Sheriff, a London shopkeeper in the time of Queen Elizabeth, who, in 1567, endowed
a school in his native village with eight acres of land, situated where Lamb's Conduit-street,
in London, now stands, whence at present upwards of 5000 pounds a year is derived.

Rugby was long considered the most snobbish of English public schools, a sad character in a
country where style and name go so far.  Some twenty years ago, when the Rugbaeans had the
"presumption" to challenge the Wykehamists to play at football, the latter proudly answered,
that the Rugbaeans might put on worsted stockings and clouted soles, and the Wykehamists in
silk stockings and pumps would meet them in any lane in England.  But, since that time, the
Harrow gentlemen, the Eton fops, the Winchester scholars, and the Westminster blackguards,
have had reason to admit that Arnold, a Wykehamist, long considered by the fellows of that
venerable institution an unworthy son, succeeded in making Rugby the great nursery of sound
scholars and Christian gentlemen, and in revolutionizing and reforming the educational system
of all our public schools.

The following, by one of Arnold's pupils, himself an eminent example of cultivated intellect
and varied information, combined with great energy in the practical affairs of life and active
untiring benevolence, is a sketch of

"ARNOLD AND HIS SCHOOL."

In the year 1827, the head mastership became vacant of the Grammar School at Rugby, and the
trustees, a body of twelve country gentlemen and noblemen, selected, to the dismay of all the
orthodox, the Rev. Thomas Arnold, late fellow of Oriel College, Oxford, and then taking private
pupils at Laleham, Middlesex.  Transplanted from Oriel, the hotbed of strange and unsound opinions,
out of which the conflicting views of Whateley, Hampden, Keble, and Newman, were struggling
into day; himself a disciple of the suspected school of German criticism; known to entertain
views at variance with the majority of his church brethren on all the semipolitical questions
of the day; an advocate for the admission of Roman Catholics to Parliament, for the reform
of the Liturgy and enlargement of the Church, so as to embrace dissenters; the distrust with
which he was regarded by all who did not know him may be imagined.

It was a critical time, the year 1827; the mind of the country was then undergoing that process
of change which shortly afterwards showed itself in the emancipation of the Roman Catholics,
the passing of the Reform Bill, the foundation of the London University, and the publications
of the Useful Knowledge Society.  Old opinions were on all sides the objects of attack.  At
such a period, public schools, with their exclusively classical teaching and their "fagging"
systems, were naturally regarded as institutions of the past not adapted to the present.  It
seemed probable that a remodelling, or, according to the phrase of the day, a "reform" of them,
would be attempted by the new intellectual school of which Lord Brougham was regarded as the
type. It was the views of this party which, it was anticipated, Dr. Arnold would hasten to
introduce into Rugby.

We now know that he did not do this, although he did reform not only the school of Rugby, but
gave a bias to the education of the sons of what is still the most influential class in this
country, which has lasted to the present day, and that in a direction and in a manner which
surprised his opponents, and at one time provoked even his friends.

It may not be uninteresting to such of our readers as love to trace the origin of those changes
of opinion, which are at times seen to diffuse themselves over portions of society from an
unseen source, to learn how this original man commenced his task of training the minds committed
to him in those peculiar tendencies, both as to feeling and thinking, which enter appreciably
into the tone of the upper classes of the present generation.

Dr. Arnold, from the day on which he first took charge of the school, adopted the course which
he ever after adhered to, of treating the boys like gentlemen and reasonable beings.  Thus,
on receiving from an offender an answer to any question he would say, "If you say so, of course
I believe you," and on this he would act.  The effect of this was immediate and remarkable;
the better feeling of the school was at once touched; boys declared, "It is a shame to tell
Arnold a lie, because he always believes you;" and thus, at one bold step, the axe was put
to the root of the inveterate practice of lying to the master, one of the curses of schools.
In pursuance of the same views, when reprimanding a boy, he generally took him apart and spoke
to him in such a manner as to make him feel that his master was grieved and troubled at his
wrong-doing; a quakerlike simplicity of mien and language, a sternness of manner not unmixed
with tenderness, and a total absence of all "don-ish" airs, combined to produce this effect.
Nor were his personal habits without their effect.  The boys saw in him no outward appearance
of a solemn pedagogue or dignified ecclesiastic whom it was a temptation to dupe, or into whose
ample wig javelins of paper might with impunity be darted; but a spare active determined man,
six feet high, in duck trousers, a narrow-brimmed hat, a black sailor's handkerchief knotted
round his neck, a heavy walking-stick in his hand,--a strong swimmer, a noted runner; the first
of all the masters in the school-room on the winter mornings, teaching the lowest class when
it was his turn with the same energy which he would have thrown into a lecture to a critical
audience, listening with interest to an intelligent answer from the smallest boy, and speaking
to them more like an elder brother than the head master. {67}  They soon perceived that they
had to deal with a man thoroughly in earnest, acute, active, and not easily deceived; that
he was not only a scholar but a gentleman, who expected them to behave as the sons of gentlemen
themselves. Their attention was awakened, and, although their fears were somewhat excited,
their sympathies and interest were at the same time aroused.  This was a good commencement;
but Arnold was ready with other means no less effectual for engaging their thoughts.  He opened
out to them at once "fresh fields and pastures new," in the domain of knowledge; he established
periodical examinations, at which (if a tolerable proficiency in the regular studies was displayed)
a boy might offer to be examined in books on any subject he might prefer, and prizes were awarded
accordingly.  The offer was eagerly seized; modern history, biography, travels, fiction, poetry,
were sought after; the habit of general reading was created, and a new intellectual activity
pervaded the school.  The writer well remembers the effect produced on him when he heard that
Arnold had lent one of the boys Humphrey Clinker, to illustrate a passage in his theme.  He
felt from that time forth that the keys of knowledge were confided to him, and, in proof of
this, his own little library, and those in the "studies" of many of his neighbours, shortly
doubled their numbers.  French, German, and mathematics, were encouraged by forming distinct
classes on these subjects, and by conferring for high standing in them some of the privileges
as to exemption from fagging, which previously had only attached to a similar standing in classics.
Modern history was also introduced as a recognised branch of school study.  The advantage of
this was, that many of the boys, who, from deficient early training or peculiar turn of mind,
were unable to bring themselves to proficiency in the regular Latin and Greek course of the
school, and consequently were idle and listless, found other and more congenial paths in which
intelligence and application would still meet with their reward.

By these simple means, now generally adopted in classical schools, but up to that time supposed
to be incompatible with high accomplishments in classical learning, the standard of intelligence
and information was incalculably raised, and the school, as a place of education in its wider
sense, became infinitely more efficient.

We should have stated that Dr. Arnold's skill as a teacher was unrivalled; he imparted a living
interest to all he touched, to be attributed mainly to his habit of illustrating ancient events
by "modern instances."  Thus, Thucydides and Napier were compared almost page by page; thus
the "High Church party" of the Jews was pointed to as a type of "the Tories."  By means of
his favourite topic, physical geography, he sought to bring the actual theatre of events before
his pupils.  Thus he would describe (when living at Laleham), the Vatican and Janiculum hills
of Rome, as being "like the hills on the right bank of the Thames behind Chertsey;" the Monte
Marie as being "about the height and steepness of Cooper's Hill," and "having the Tiber at
the foot of it like the Thames at Anchorwick."

To philology even, the deadly science of dead languages, and the great business of public schools,
he contrived to impart life by continually pointing out its bearing on the history of the races
of mankind.  The interest thus given to study was something before unknown in schools.

So far we have confined ourselves to the effect of Arnold's system on the mind, but the source
of his most anxious thoughts and constant solicitude lay deeper than this; it related to the
spiritual condition, or, according to the German phrase, "the inner life," of the boys.  With
his usual indifference to personal labour he assumed the preachership of the chapel, declining
however, also, with characteristic disinterestedness, the salary attached, hitherto given to
increase the stipend of a junior master, and his famous "quarter of an hour" sermons, into
which he threw all the power of his character and his intellect, no doubt gave him an opportunity
of confirming, on certain minds, that influence which was primarily due to his earnest acts
of heart and head.

We here approach a portion of his career on which difference of opinion must always exist.
Impressed with an abiding conviction that all earthly things were subordinate to the relation
between man and his Maker; keenly appreciating all that was "of good report," and impatient
of evil, or what seemed to him to be of evil tendency, even to intolerance, it must be admitted
that in Arnold there was something of the zealot.  With his acute sense of responsibility as
to the spiritual state of the boys, it was natural that he should seek to impress those with
whom he was brought in contact, and he did so.  The personal notice he bestowed on boys of
serious tendencies, asking them to his house and conversing with them on solemn subjects had
this effect, and soon engendered "a sect" in the school.  Now, the boys who were thus susceptible
and formed this sect, were generally of the milder order of character, and not of that precocious
virility which always gives influence in a great school; hence arose among the natural leaders
of the school, the strong in character and the stout in heart and hand, a reaction against
Arnold and against Arnold's views, as being opposed to the traditional notions of the school.
This reaction was strengthened by the peculiar nature of some of these views, such, for instance
as those on the subject of the code of honour.  Arnold, although himself a man actuated by
a nice sense of honour, felt it his duty to set himself strongly in words against the code
of honour; it was the constant object of vituperation on his part, even from the pulpit.  His
notions on this point, however, never gained ground with his hearers, who could not be brought
to believe that their master (himself as true a knight errant as ever drew sword or pen,) was
serious when he told them that the spirit of chivalry was "the true Antichrist."

The attempt to introduce a more highly-wrought tone of religious feeling than was perhaps of
wholesome growth in very young minds was, therefore, not without its drawbacks; the antagonism
to some of his own views which it called forth, combined with the utter disregard to established
views which characterized his own teaching, and which the school caught from him, told upon
the boys' minds.  The direct and indirect effect of Arnold's school of thought may indeed,
now, we think, be traced in the general distrust of hitherto received opinions, which, but
little tinged in England it is true with either licentiousness or irreverence, is nevertheless
characteristic of the present generation.

These effects are also more manifest now that Arnold's personal influence can no longer be
exercised.  So long as he was at his post, his earnest simplicity of character, his purity
of life, his intellectual vigour, his fearless seeking after truth, carried away the sympathies
of all who were brought in contact with him; not one of whom but will say, on looking back
to the impression he left on them, "Behold an Israelite indeed in whom there was no guile!"

Thus the reform introduced into Rugby by Arnold, and indirectly into other public schools through
him, was then very different from that which was anticipated from him.  He did, it will be
seen, none of the things he was expected by his party to do.  He strenuously inculcated the
views of Christian doctrine most opposed to those of the Latitudinarian party. {71}  He stoutly
adhered to the system of "fagging," as being the best mode of responsible government for the
school "out of school," founding his opinion on his own experience at Winchester, on which
he often dwelt.  He raised and improved the standard of classical learning in its wider sense,
so that the scholars of Rugby gained a high standing at the universities; and by showing that
this was attainable consistently with acquirements in other branches of learning, and with
the utmost amount of intelligent interest in the knowledge of the day, he confirmed that opinion
in favour of the advantage of classical learning, as a sound philosophical means of training
the faculties for worldly affairs, which we have seen lately advocated and applauded even in
the heart of Manchester itself, at the opening of Owen's College.

The change he introduced was thus more thorough, more deep and comprehensive, than any which
the suggestions of his partisan supporters would have accomplished.  It was a change in the
very spirit of education, reaching beyond the years of boyhood or the limits of school walls.

COVENTRY TO BIRMINGHAM,

Instead of turning off from Rugby by the new route to Leamington, we will keep the old road,
and so push on straight to the great Warwickshire manufactory and mart of ribands and watches.
First appears the graceful spire of St. Michael's Church; then the green pastures of the Lammas,
on which, for centuries, the freemen of Coventry have fed their cattle, sweep into sight, and
with a whiz, a whirl, and a whistle, we are in the city and county of Coventry--the seat of
the joint diocese of Lichfield and Coventry--which return two members to Parliament, at the
hands of one of the most stubbornly independent constituencies in England; a constituency which
may be soft-sawdered, but cannot be bullied or bribed.

A railroad here branches off to Nuneaton, distant ten miles, a sort of manufacturing dependency
of the great city; and on the other, at the same distance, to Leamington, with a station at
Kenilworth.

In addition to its manufacturing importance, an importance which has survived and increased
in the face of the changes in the silk trade and watch trade, commenced by Huskisson, and completed
by Peel, Coventry affords rich food for the antiquarian, scenes of deep interest to the historical
student, a legend for poets, a pageant for melodramatists, and a tableau for amateurs of poses
plastiques.

Once upon a time Kings held their Courts and summoned Parliaments at Coventry; four hundred
years ago the Guilds of Coventry recruited, armed, clothed, and sent forth six hundred stout
fellows to take part in the Wars of the Roses; at Coventry the lists were pitched for Mary
of Lancaster, and Phillip Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, to decide in single combat their counter-
charges before the soon-to-be-dethroned Richard II.

At Coventry you will find the effigy of vile Peeping Tom, and can follow the course through
which the fair Godiva rode naked, veiled by her modesty and flowing tresses, to save her townsmen
from a grievous tax.  To be sure, some English Niebuhrs have undertaken to prove the whole
story a legend; but, for our parts, we are determined to believe in tradition and Alfred Tennyson's
sonnet.

There are three ancient churches in Coventry, of which St. Michael's, built in the reign of
Henry I., is the first; the spire rising 303 feet from the ground, the lofty interior ornamented
with a roof of oak, curiously carved, and several windows of stained glass.

[COVENTRY: ill11.jpg]

St. Mary's Hall, a large building, now used for corporation council meetings, and festivities,
erected in the reign of Henry VI., is one of the richest and most interesting vestiges of the
ornamental architecture of England.  The principal room has a grotesquely-carved roof of oak,
a gallery for minstrels, an armoury, a chair of state, and a great painted window, which need
only the filling up of royal and noble personages, their attendants, and the rich burgesses
of Coventry, to recall the time when Richard II. held his Court in this ancient city, and,
with "old John of Gaunt," settled the sentence on Harry of Hereford, and Philip of Norfolk.

In this chamber is to be seen a beautiful piece of tapestry, executed in 1450, measuring thirty
feet by ten, and containing eighty figures.

In the free school, founded by John Moles, in the reign of Henry VIII., Sir William Dugdale,
the antiquarian and historian of Warwickshire, was educated. The income is about 900 pounds
a-year, and the scholars have open to competition two fellowships of St. John's College, Oxon,
one at Catherine's Hall, Cambridge, and six exhibitions at either University.  Previous to
the investigations of the Charity Commissioners, the fine school-room was locked up, and the
books of the library torn for waste paper to light fires.  At present, under the reformed system,
the school is attended by a large number of scholars.

There are more than a dozen educational and other charities for the benefit of the poor, enjoying
a revenue of many thousands a-year.

There are also several curious specimens of domestic architecture of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries to be found in Coventry.  It is, however, on the whole, a dark, dirty, inconvenient
city.  The surrounding belt of Lammas lands on which the freemen have the right of pasturing
their horses and cows, has prevented any increase in the limits of the city.

In the middle ages Coventry was celebrated for its "mysteries and pageants," of which an account
has been published by Mr. Reader, a local bookseller.

The chief manufactures are of ribands and of watches, both transplantations from the Continent.
The electors of Coventry distinguished themselves by their consistency during the Free-trade
agitation.  They exacted a pledge from their members in favour of Free-trade, except in watches
and ribands. More recently these same Coventry men have had the good sense to prefer a successful
man of business, the architect of his own fortunes, to a Right Honourable Barrister and ex-Railway
Commissioner.

[THE SHERBORNE VIADUCT, NEAR COVENTRY: ill12.jpg]

One thing needful to preserve the manufacturing position of Coventry is, a first-rate School
of Design--labour, and coal, and ample means of conveyance they have, east and west, and north
and south; and now the manufacturers only need the cultivation of true principles of taste
among the whole riband- weaving population.  For taste is a rare article, and many draughts
of small fry must be made before one leviathan salmon can be caught.  Great advances have been
made recently in the production of the best kinds of ribands.  A specimen produced by subscription
for the Hyde Park Exhibition of 1851, proved that Coventry was quite able to rival the choicest
work of France in the class of machine-made ribands.  The application of steam power to this
class of manufactures is of but recent date.  Coventry surveyed, and this may be done in a
few hours, unless the traveller is able and willing to examine its rich manufactories, it is
difficult to resist the invitation of the railway porter, bawling, to Kenilworth, Leamington,
and Warwick, names calling up a crowd of romantic associations, from Shakspeare to Scott and
Bulwer; but for the present we must keep steadily on to Birmingham, where steam finds the chief
raw materials of poetry and fashioner of beauty.

BIRMINGHAM.

A run of nineteen miles brings us to what the inhabitants call the Hardware Village, a healthy,
ugly town, standing upon several hills, crowned with smoke, but free from fog.

The old railway station stands at the foot of one of these hills, leaving a drive of a quarter
of a mile through a squalid region, almost as bad as the railway entrance into Bristol, before
entering into the decent part of the town; but the new station, now in course of rapid completion,
will land passengers behind the Grammar School, in New Street, the principal, and, indeed,
only handsome street of any length in Birmingham.

At the old station there is an excellent hotel, kept by Mr. Robert Bacon, who was so many years
house steward to the Athenaeum Club, in Pall Mall; and at the refreshment-rooms a capital table
d'hote is provided four times a-day, at two shillings a-head, servants included, an arrangement
extremely acceptable after a ride of 118 miles.

[NEWTON ROAD STATION, NEAR BIRMINGHAM: ill16.jpg]

At the new station similar refreshment-rooms are to be provided, and it is to be hoped that
the architect will plan the interior first, and the exterior afterwards, so that comfort may
not be sacrificed, as it usually is in English public buildings, to the cost of an imposing
portico and vestibule.

As a railway starting point, Birmingham has become a wonderful place.  In addition to those
main lines and branches passed and noted on our journey down, it is also the centre at which
meet the railroads to Derby and Sheffield; to Worcester, Cheltenham, Gloucester, and Bristol;
to London through Oxford, by the Broad Gauge Great Western, to Shrewsbury and Chester through
Wolverhampton, beside the little South Staffordshire lines, which form an omnibus route between
Birmingham, Walsall, Dudley, and Lichfield, and other iron nets "too tedious to describe."

To a stranger not interested in manufactures, and in mechanic men, this is a very dull, dark,
dreary town, and the sooner he gets out of it the better. There are only two fine buildings.
The Town Hall, an exact copy externally of the Temple of Jupiter Stator at Rome, built of a
beautiful grey Anglesey marble, from the designs of Messrs. Hansom and Welch, who also undertook
to execute it for 24,000 pounds.  It cost 30,000 pounds, and the contractors were consequently
ruined.  A railway company would probably have paid the difference; but, in such cases, communities
have no conscience, so the people of Brummagem got the Hall of which they are justly proud
"a bargain."

The interior is disappointing, and wants the expenditure of some more thousand pounds in sculptures
and decorative details, to bring it into harmony with its noble external effect.  The great
room, 145 feet in length, by 65 feet in width and height, will contain upwards of 8,000 persons.

Musical meetings are held here periodically, for the benefit of certain charities; but the
sight best worth seeing, is the Hall at the period of an election, or of political excitement,
crowded with a feverish army of workmen, cheering, groaning, swaying to and fro, under the
speeches of their favourite orators.  Then in this Pagan temple may be seen a living specimen
of a Brummagem Jupiter, with a cross of Vulcan, lion-faced, hairy, bearded, deep-mouthed swaggering,
fluent in frank nonsense and bullying clap-trap, loved by the mob for his strength, and by
the middle classes for his money. The lofty roof re-echoes with applause.

The temple, the man, and the multitude, all together, are well worth a journey to Birmingham
to see.

There is also the Free School of King Edward VI., in New Street, a stately pile, built by Barry,
before he had become so famous as he is now; which supplies first-rate instruction in classics,
mathematics, modern languages, and all branches of a useful English education, after the plan
introduced into our public schools by Dr. Arnold, to the sons of all residents, at an extremely
cheap, almost a nominal rate.  Ten exhibitions of 50 pounds each for four years at Oxford or
Cambridge are open to the competition of the scholars.

The salary of the Head Master is 400 pounds a-year, with a residence, and the privilege of
boarding eighteen pupils.  Of the Second Master, 300 pounds. Beside Under Masters.

These liberal appointments have secured a succession of competent masters, and cannot fail
to produce a permanent and favourable change in the character of young Birmingham.  The diffusion
of sound classical learning was much needed to mitigate the coxcombical pretensions of the
half-educated, and the vulgar coarseness of the uneducated.  The inhabitants of manufacturing
towns are apt to grow petty Plutocracies, in which after wealth, ignorance and assumption are
the principal qualifications.  Brass turns up its nose at iron, and both look down upon tin,
although half an hour in the world's fire make all so black as to be undistinguishable.

Besides this, which we may term the High School, there are four schools supported out of King
Edward VI.'s foundation, where reading, writing, and arithmetic, are taught.

The funds on which these magnificent ecclesiastical establishments are supported, arise from
lands in the neighbourhood which originally produced only 21 pounds a year, and were part of
the estates of the Guild of the "Holy Cross."  After being occupied first as fields and then
as gardens, the rise of manufactures and extension of the town of Birmingham, converted a great
portion into building land.  The present revenue amounts to about 11,000 pounds per annum,
and are likely to be still further increased.

Twenty years ago, school lands which are now leased for terms of years, and covered with buildings,
were occupied as suburban gardens at trifling rents. Eventually the Birmingham Free School
will enjoy an income equal to the wants of a university as well as a school.  Meagre accounts
of the income and expenditure of this noble foundation are published annually, under the regulations
of an Act of Parliament passed in 1828; but no report of the number of scholars, or the sort
of education communicated, is attached to this balance sheet.  It would be very useful; and
we hope that the self- elected corporation, who have the management, will see the propriety
of supplying it.

Birmingham also possesses a chartered college, "Queen's College," similar to that at Durham;
first established as a medical school by the exertions of the present dean, Mr. Sands Cox,
since liberally endowed by the Rev. Dr. Warneford to the extent of many thousand pounds, and
placed in a position to afford the courses in law, physic, and divinity, required for taking
a degree at the University of London.  Also a Blue Coat School, and School for the Blind.

In a picturesque point of view there are few towns more uninviting than Birmingham; for the
houses are built of brick toned down to a grimy red by smoke, in long streets crossing each
other at right angles,--and the few modern stone buildings and blocks of houses seem as pert
and as much out of place as the few idle dandies who are occasionally met among the crowds
of busy mechanics and anxious manufacturers.  What neatness--cleanliness--can do for the streets,
bell-pulls, and door-knockers, has been done; the foot- pavements are, for the most part flagged,
although some of the round pebble corn-creating footways still remain in the back streets.
One suburb, Edgbaston, is the property of Lord Calthorpe, and has been let out on building
leases which entirely exclude all manufactories and inferior classes of houses.  The result
has been a crop of snug villas, either stucco or polished red brick; many of them surrounded
by gardens and shrubberies, and a few of considerable pretension.  Of this suburb the Birmingham
people think a great deal; but, as it is built upon a dead flat in long straight lines, its
effect is more pleasing to the citizen after a hard day's work, than to the artist, architect,
landscape gardener, or lover of the picturesque.

Birmingham is, in fact, notable for its utility more than its beauty,--for what is done in
its workshops, rather than for what is to be seen in its streets and suburbs.  Nowhere are
there to be found so numerous a body of intelligent, ingenious, well educated workmen.  The
changes of fashion and the discoveries of science always find Birmingham prepared to march
in the van, and skilfully execute the work needed in iron, in brass, in gold and silver, in
all the mixed metals and in glass.  When guns are no longer required at the rate of a gun a
minute, Birmingham steel pens become famous all over the world.  When steel buckles and gilt
buttons have had their day, Britannia teapots and brass bedsteads still hold their own.  No
sooner is electrotype invented, than the principal seat of the manufacture is established at
Birmingham.  No sooner are the glass duties repealed than the same industrious town becomes
renowned for plate glass, cut glass, and stained glass; and, when England demands a Palace
to hold the united contributions of "The Industry of the World," a Birmingham banker finds
the contractor and the credit, and Birmingham manufacturers find the iron, the glass, and the
skill needful for the most rapid and gigantic piece of building ever executed in one year.

In order to appreciate the independent character and quick inventive intelligence of the Birmingham
mechanic, he should be visited at his own home.  A system of small independent houses, instead
of lodgings, prevails in this town, to the great advantage of the workmen.

It is only within a very few years that the working classes have had, in a local School of
Design, means of instruction in the principles of taste, and arts of drawing and modelling;
while, until the patent laws are put upon a just foundation, their inventive faculties can
never be fully developed.  When the artizans of Birmingham have legislative recognition of
their rights as inventors, and free access to a first-rate school of design, their "cunning"
hands will excel in beauty as well as ingenuity all previous triumphs.

The wealthier classes have, from various causes, deteriorated within the last sixty years,
while the workmen have improved within that time.  Men who have realized fortunes no longer
settle down in the neighbourhood of their labours.  They depart as far as possible from the
smoke of manufactures and the bickerings of middle class cliques, purchase estates, send their
sons to the universities, and in a few years subside into country squires. Professional men,
as soon as they have displayed eminent talent, emigrate to London; and the habit, now so prevalent
in all manufacturing towns, of living in the suburbs, has sapped the prosperity of those literary
and philosophical institutions and private reunions, which so much contributed to raise the
tone of society during the latter half of the last century.  The meetings of an old Literary
and Philosophical Society have been discontinued, and the News Room was lately on the brink
of dissolution.  Instead of meeting to discuss points of art, science, and literature, the
middle classes read the Times and Punch, and consult the Penny Cyclopaedia.  The literary and
scientific character which Birmingham acquired in the days when Boulton, Watt, Priestly, Darwin,
Murdoch, and their friends, met at the Birmingham Lunarian Society, to discuss, to experiment,
and to announce important discoveries, have passed away never to return; and we are not likely
to see again any provincial town occupying so distinguished a position in the scientific world.
The only sign of Birmingham's ancient literary pre- eminence is to be found in several weekly
newspapers, conducted with talent and spirit far beyond average.  It is an amusing fact, that
the sect to which Priestly belonged still trade on his reputation, and claim an intellectual
superiority over the members of other persuasions, which they may once have possessed, but
which has long been levelled up by the universal march of education.  The richer members publish
little dull books in bad English on abstruse subjects, and, like Consuelo's prebendary, have
quartos in preparation which never reach the press.

In fact, the suburban system of residence and the excessive pretension of superiority by the
"pots over the kettles" have almost destroyed society in Birmingham, although people meet occasionally
at formal expensive parties, and are drawn together by sympathy in religion and politics.

Nothing would induce an educated gentleman to live in Birmingham except to make a living, yet
there are residing there, seldom seen out of their factories, men of the highest scientific
and no mean literary attainments.

There are a number of manufactories, which, in addition to their commercial importance, present
either in finished articles, or in the process of manufacture, much that will interest an intelligent
traveller.

GLASS.--Messrs. F. & C. Oslers, of Broad Street, have attained a very high reputation for their
cut and ornamental, as well as the ordinary, articles of flint glass.  The have been especially
successful in producing fine effects from prismatic arrangements.  Their gigantic chandeliers
of great size, made for Ibrahim Pacha, and the Nepalese Prince, were the steps by which they
achieved the lofty crystal fountain, of an entirely original design, which forms one of the
most novel and effective ornaments of the Crystal Palace. The manufactory as well as the show-room
is open to the inspection of respectable strangers.

Messrs. Rice and Harris are also extensive manufacturers of cut and coloured glass; and Messrs.
Bacchus and Sons have been very successful in their imitations of Bohemian glass, both in form
and colour.  Messrs. Chance have acquired a world-wide reputation by supplying the largest
quantity of crown glass in the shortest space of time for Paxton's Palace.  These works, in
which plate and every kind of crown glass is made, are situated at West Bromwich.  The proprietors
have benevolently and wisely made arrangements for the education of their workmen and their
families, which are worthy of imitation in all those great factories where the plan, which
originated in Lancashire, has not been already adopted.  A letter of introduction will be required
in order to view Messrs. Chance's establishment, of which we shall say more when noting the
social state of the Birmingham operatives.

PAPIER MACHE.--Messrs. Jennens and Bettridge's works are so well known that it is only necessary
to refer to them for the purpose of saying that in their show-rooms some new application of
the art which they have carried to such perfection is constantly to be found.  Pianos, cradles,
arm-chairs, indeed complete drawing-room suites, cornices, door-plates, and a variety of ornaments
are displayed, in addition to the tea-trays and tea-chests in which the art of japanning first
became known to us.

Although Messrs. Jennens and Co. have the largest establishment in Birmingham, there are several
others who produce capital work; among them may be named Mr. Thomas Lane and Messrs. M'Callum
and Hodgson, who both exhibited specimens of great merit at the last Birmingham Exhibition
of manufactures.

But metals afford the great staple of employment in Birmingham, and we shall avail ourselves,
in describing the leading trades, and touching on the social position of the workmen, of the
admirable letters on Labour and the Poor in Birmingham which appeared in the Morning Chronicle
in the course of 1850. {81}

* * * * *

BIRMINGHAM BUTTONS.--"A Brummagem Button" is the old-fashioned nickname for a Birmingham workman.
The changes of fashion, and the advances of other manufactures, have deprived that trade of
its ancient pre-eminence over all other local pursuits; but the "button trade," although not
the same trade which made great fortunes in a previous generation, still employs five or six
thousand hands, of which one-half are women and children.

In the middle of the eighteenth century a plain white metal button was made, which may occasionally
be seen in remote rural districts, on the green coats of old yeomen, wearing hereditary leather
breeches.  At that period the poorer classes wore coarse horn or wooden buttons, chiefly home
made, and the tailor made, as well as the clothes, buttons covered with cloth.  By degrees
very handsome gilt buttons came into wear, and continued to employ many hands, while the blue
coat which figures in the portraits of our grandfathers remained in fashion.

In 1826, the Florentine, or covered button, now in almost universal use, which is manufactured
by machinery with the aid of women and children, was introduced, and by 1829 the gilt button
trade had been almost destroyed.

The change produced great distress, vast numbers of persons were thrown out of work, who could
not at once turn to any other employment.  In 1830 a deputation from the gilt button trade
waited upon George IV. and the principal nobility, to solicit their patronage.  The application
succeeded, coloured coats with metal buttons came into fashion, and dandies of the first water
appeared in bright snuff-coloured, pale green, and blue coats, such as are now only worn by
Paul Bedford or Keeley, in broad farce.  In 1836 a cheap mode of gilding, smart for a day,
dull and shabby in a week, completely destroyed the character of gilt buttons, and brought
up the Florentine again. This change was, no doubt, materially assisted and maintained by Bulwer's
novel of "Pelham," which set all young men dressing themselves up like crows with white shirts.

In 1840 a deputation to Prince Albert attempted another revival of the gilt button trade, and
at the same time the silk stocking weavers waited on the Prince to endeavour to drive out the
patent leather boots, and bring in the low shoe.  Both attempts failed.  At present there are
symptoms of a turn of fashion toward coloured coats and bright buttons, which may be successful,
because the fashionable world abhors monotony.  The flame coloured coats, long curls, and pink
under waistcoats of George IV., were succeeded by the solemn sables of an undertaker; the high
tight stock made way for a sailor's neckcloth.  For a time shawl waistcoats, of gay colours,
had their hour.  Then correct tight black yielded to the loosest and shaggiest garments that
could be invented.  Perhaps the year 1852 may see our youth arrayed in blue, purple and pale brown.

But a very little consideration will prove that these artificial changes, although they may
benefit a class, are of little advantage to the community. If a man gives 10s. more for a coat
with gilt buttons than for one with plain buttons, he has 10s. less to expend with some other
tradesman.

The Florentine Button, first invented in 1820, and since much improved, is a very curious manufacture.
It is made--as any one may see by cutting up a button--of five pieces; first, the covering
of Florentine, or silk; second, a cover of metal, which gives the shape to the button; third,
a smaller circle of mill-board; fourth, a circle of coarse cloth, or calico; fifth, a circle
of metal, with a hole punched in the centre, through which the calico or cloth is made to protrude,
to form the shank, to be sewed on to the garment.

"Ranged in rows on either side of a long room of the button factory, (says the correspondent
of the Morning Chronicle) are from 50 to 100 girls and young women, from the age of fourteen
to four or five and twenty, all busily engaged, either at hand or steam presses, in punching
out metal circles slightly larger than the size of the button which is to be produced.  Before
each press the forewoman is seated, holding in her hand a sheet of zinc or iron, about two
feet long, and four inches broad.  This she passes rapidly under the press if worked by hand,
and still more rapidly if worked by steam, punching and cutting at the rate of from fifty to
sixty disks in a minute.  As they are cut they fall into a receptacle prepared to receive them.
The perforated sheets are sold to the founder to be melted up, and made into other sheets.
In other rooms younger women are engaged in cutting up Florentine cloth, or other outside covering
material, paste board and calico. Of these a young woman can punch 57,000 a-day, and of metal,
28,000 a-day. The upper discs are submitted by another set of girls to presses from which each
receives a blow that turns up an edge all round, and reduces it to the exact size of the button.
The lower disk is punched for the shank to come through, stamped with the maker's name, or
the name of the tailor for whom the buttons are made, and coated with varnish, either light
or black.

"The five pieces then pass into a department where a woman superintends the labours of a number
of children from seven to ten years of age.

"These little creatures place all five pieces, one after another, in regular order, in a small
machine like a dice-box, constructed to hold them, which is placed under a press, when a firm
touch compresses the whole together in the neat form, which any one may examine on a black
dress coat, without stitch or adhesive matter."

This patent was the subject of long litigation between rival inventors, to the great benefit
of the lawyers, and loss of the industrious and ingenious.

Within the last twelve months Messrs. Chadbourne, button-makers, of Great Charles Street, have
adapted this Florentine button to nails for furniture and carriages.

The Patent Linen sewn-through Button is another recent invention, which has superseded the
old wire button for under garments, than which it is cheaper, neater, and more durable.  It
is composed of linen and circles of zinc.

Horn Buttons, with shanks, which are extensively used for cloth boots and sporting jackets,
are made from the hoofs of horned cattle, which are boiled, cut, punched, dyed, stamped when
soft, and polished by brushes moved by steam power; the chief part of the work being done by
women and children.

Pearl Buttons have become an important part of the Birmingham manufactures, partly on the decline
of metal buttons.  They are extensively used on coats and waistcoats, where gilt buttons were
formerly employed.

The shell used in the manufacture of buttons, studs, card counters, etc., is the mother of
pearl, the Concha margaritifera of naturalists.  Five kinds of shell are employed:--First.
The Buffalo Shell, so named because it arrived packed in buffalo skins; it comes chiefly from
Panama, is the smallest and commonest, and sells to the trade at about 15 pounds a ton.--Second.
The Black Scotch, from the Sandwich Islands, whence it is sent to Valparaiso and to Sydney,
New South Wales, worth from 15 to 30 pounds a ton.  The large outer rim is of a blackish, or
rather greenish, tint, the centre only being white.  The outer rim was formerly considered
worthless, and large quantities were thrown away as rubbish.  Change of fashion has brought
the prismatic hues of the dark pearl into fashion for shooting-coats, waistcoats, and even
studs.  It used to be a standing story with a Bristol barber that a square in that city had
been built on thousands of pounds worth of tobacco stalks, thrown away as useless, until it
was discovered that that part of the plant was capable of making a most saleable snuff.  And
so in Birmingham; the Irvingite Church, on New Hall Hill, is said to be built on hundreds of
tons of refuse shell, which would now be worth from 15 to 20 pounds per ton.  The third shell
is the Bombay, or White Scotch, worth from 20 to 50 pounds per ton.  The fourth comes from
Singapore, and is brought there to exchange for British manufactures by the native craft which
frequent that free port.  It is a first-rate article, white to the edge, worth from 80 to 90
pounds per ton.  The fifth is the Mother of Pearl Shell, from Manilla, of equal value and size,
but with a slight yellow tinge round the edge.

Pearl buttons are cut out and shaped by men with the lathe, polished by women with a grinding-stone,
and sorted and arranged on cards by girls.

Glass Buttons were formerly in use among canal boatmen, miners, and agricultural labourers,
in certain districts.  They are now chiefly made for the African market.  The process of making
them and studs is well worth seeing.

Beside the buttons already enumerated, they make in Birmingham the flat iron and brass buttons,
for trowsers; steel buttons, for ladies' dresses; wooden buttons, for overcoats; agate buttons,
for which material is imported from Bohemia; and, in fact, every kind of button and stud, including
papier mache.

The manufacture of brass shanks is a separate trade, and the writer of the letters already
quoted, states the annual production at, or upwards of, three millions per working day.  Of
these, part are made by hand, but the greater number by a shank-making machine, wrought by
steam power, and only requiring the attendance of one tool-maker.

"The machine feeds itself from a coil of brass or iron wire suspended from the roof, and cuts
and twists into shanks, by one process, at the rate of 360 per minute, or nearly 75,000,000
per annum.  Some button manufacturers employ one of these machines; the majority buy the shanks."

* * * * *

GUNS AND SWORDS.--According to Hutton, the historian of Birmingham, the town was indebted for
its occupation in supplying our army with fire-arms, to an ancestor of a gentleman who now
represents a division of Warwickshire, a Sir Roger Newdigate, in the time of William III.

The story, however, seems only half-true.  Hutton would imply that the first muskets manufactured
in England were made in Birmingham.  It seems more likely, that the connexion with William
III. arose from the desire of that monarch to have the flint-lock, which was superseding the
match-lock on the Continent, made in his own dominions.

At any rate, the revolution of 1688, which the romantic anti-commercial party of Young England
so deeply regret, gave Birmingham its gun trade, as well as Hampton Court its asparagus beds.

When Walpole gave us peace, the attention of the manufacturers was directed to fowling-pieces,
and from that time forward Birmingham has contained the greatest fire-arm factory in the world,
although, of course, subject to many fluctuations.  Twenty years ago, "A long war soon," was
as regular a toast at convivial meetings of Birmingham manufacturers, as at any mess-room or
in any cock-pit in her majesty's service.

The government has made several attempts, by establishing manufactories with public money and
under official control, to become independent of Birmingham, but the end has invariably been
great loss and pitiful results in the number of arms produced.

We hope to live to see the time when our navy will be built as economically as our guns are
made--by private contract--and our public ship-yards confined to the repairing department.

During the war which ended at the battle of Waterloo, the importance and prosperity of the
gun-makers were great.  It was calculated that a gun a minute was made in Birmingham on the
average of a year, but the Peace threw numbers out of work and reduced wages very considerably.

Time has brought the trade to a level; indeed, it is one of the great advantages of Birmingham,
that the prosperity of the town does not rest on any one trade; so that if some are blighted
others are flourishing, and when one fails the workmen are absorbed into other parallel employments.

The gun trade now depends for support on the demand for--first, cheap muskets for African and
other aboriginal tribes; secondly, on cheap fowling-pieces, rifles, pistols, blunderbusses,
etc., for exportation to America, Australia, and other countries where something effective
is required at a moderate price; thirdly, on the home demand for fowling-pieces of all qualities,
from the commonest to those sold at the West End of London, at fancy prices; fourthly, on that
for fire-arms required by our army and navy; and, lastly, on occasional uncertain orders created
by wars and revolutions on the Continent.

There are a vast number of guns, or parts of guns, made in Birmingham, which bear the names
of retailers in different parts of the kingdom.  Even very fashionable gun-makers find it worth
their while to purchase goods in the rough state from Birmingham manufacturers on whom they
can depend, and finish them themselves.

This is rendered easy by the system.  No one in Birmingham makes the whole of a gun.  The division
of labour is very great; the makers of the lock, the barrel, and the stock, are completely
distinct, and the mechanics confine themselves to one branch of a department.  The man who
makes the springs for a lock has nothing to do with the man who makes the nipple or the hammer;
while the barrel-forger has no connexion with the stock-maker or lock-maker.

The visitor who has the necessary introductions, should by no means omit to visit a gun-barrel
factory, as there are a good many picturesque effects in the various processes, beside the
mechanical instruction it affords.

The following is the order of the fabrication of a common gun:--

The sheets for barrels are made from scraps of steel and iron, such as old coach-springs, knives,
steel chains, horse shoes and horseshoe nails, and sheets of waste steel from steel pen manufactories.

These, having been sorted, are bound together, and submitted first to such a furnace, and then
to such a steam hammer as we described in our visit to Wolverton, until it is shaped into a
bar of tough iron, which is afterwards rolled into sheets of the requisite thickness.

From one of these sheets a length sufficient to make a gun barrel is cut off by a pair of steam-moved
shears, of which the lower jaw is stationary and the upper weighs a ton, of which plenty of
examples may be seen in every steam engine factory.

The slip of iron is made red hot, placed between a pair of rollers, one of which is convex
and the other concave, and comes out in a semicircular trough shape; again heated, and again
pressed by smaller rollers, by which the cylinder is nearly completed.  A long bar of iron
is passed through the cylinder, it is thrust into the fire again, and, when red hot, it is
submitted to the welder, who hammers it and heats it and hammers it again, until it assumes
the form of a perfect tube.

Damascus barrels are made by incorporating alternate layers of red hot steel and iron, which
are then twisted into the shape of a screw while at white heat.  The bar thus made is twisted
in a cold state by steam power round a bar into a barrel shape, then heated and welded together.

These are the barrels which present the beautiful variegated appearance which gives them the
name of Damascus.

The barrels, whether common or twisted, are then bored by a steel rod, kept wet with water
or oil, and turned by steam.  The process occupies from two to three hours for each barrel.

The next operation is that of grinding the outside of the barrel with sandstone wheels, from
five to six feet in diameter when new, driven by steam.  These stones chiefly come from the
neighbouring district of Bilston; in four months' work, a stone of this size will be reduced
to two feet.

The employment is hard, dangerous from the stones often breaking while in motion, in which
case pieces of stone weighing a ton have been known to fly through the roof of the shop; unwholesome,
because the sand and steel dust fill eyes, mouth, and lungs, unless a certain simple precaution
is taken which grinders never take.

After grinding, a nut is screwed into the breech, and the barrel is taken to the proof house
to be proved.

The proof house is a detached building, the interior of which is lined with plates of cast iron.

The barrels are set in two iron stocks, the upper surface of one of which has a small gutter,
to contain a train of powder; in this train the barrels rest with their touchholes downwards,
and in the rear of the breeches of the barrels is a mass of sand.  When the guns, loaded with
five times the quantity of powder used in actual service, have been arranged, the iron-lined
doors and windows are closed, and a train extending to the outside through a hole is fired.

Some barrels burst and twist into all manner of shapes; those which pass the ordeal are again
examined after the lapse of twenty-four hours, and, if approved, marked with two separate marks,
one for viewing and one for proving.  The mark for proving consists of two sceptres crossed
with a crown in the upper angle; the letters B and C in the left and right, and the letter
P in the lower angle.  For viewing only, V stands instead of P underneath the crown, the other
letters omitted.

After proving, the jiggerer fastens the pin, which closes up the breech.

In the mean time the construction of the lock, which is an entirely different business, and
carried on in the neighbouring towns of Wednesbury, Darleston, and Wolverhampton, as well as
in Birmingham, has been going on.

The gun lock makers are ranged into two great divisions of forgers and filers, beside many
subdivisions.

The forgers manufacture the pieces in the rough, the filers polish them and put them together.
In the percussion lock, there are fifteen pieces; in the common flint lock, eight.

By a process patented about eleven years ago, parts of a gun lock formerly forged by hand are
now stamped with a die.  The use of this invention was opposed by the men, but without success.

The barrel and lock next pass into the hands of the stocker.

The stocks, of beechwood for common guns, of walnut for superior, of which much is imported
from France and Italy, arrive in Birmingham in a rough state.  The stocker cuts away enough
of the stock to receive the barrel, the lock, the ramrod, and shapes it a little.

The next workman employed is the screw-together.  He screws on the heel plate, the guard that
protects the trigger, puts in the trigger plate, lets in the pipes to hold the ramrod, puts
on the nozzle cap, and all other mountings.

After all this, a finisher takes the gun to pieces, and polishes, fits all the mountings, or
sends them to be polished by women; the lock is sent to the engraver to have an elephant and
the word "warranted," if for the African market, put on it; a crown and the words "tower proof,"
if for our own military service; while the stock is in the hands of the maker off and cleanser,
it is carved, polished, and, if needful, stained.

Common gun barrels are polished or browned to prevent them from rusting, real Damascus barrels
are subjected to a chemical process, which brings out the fine wavy lines and prevents them
from rusting.

All these operations having been performed, the barrel, the lock, and the stock, are brought
back by the respective workmen who have given them the final touch, and put together by the
finisher or gun maker, and this putting together is as much as many eminent gunmakers ever
do.  But, by care and good judgment, they acquire a reputation for which they can charge a
handsome percentage.

For these reasons, with local knowledge, it is possible to obtain from a Birmingham finisher
who keeps no shop, a first-rate double gun at a very low figure compared with retail prices.

Belgium and Germany compete with Birmingham for cheap African guns, and even forge the proof
marks.  Neither in quality nor in price for first-rate articles can any country compete with us.

* * * * *

SWORDS AND MATCHETTS.--The sword trade of Birmingham is trifling compared with that in guns.
The foreign demand has dwindled away until it has become quite insignificant, and the chief
employment is afforded by our own army and navy. Nevertheless, good swords are made in Birmingham,
which is the only town in England where any manufacture of the kind exists, although the blades
often bear the names of more fashionable localities.

It is among the traditions of the Birmingham trade, that in 1817, when our Government was about
to transfer its orders for swords to Germany, in consequence of the inferiority of English
swords, a Mr. Gill claimed to compete for the contract; and that in order to show what he could
do, he appeared before the Board of Ordnance with a sword, which he tied round his thigh, and
then untied, when it immediately became straight.  In the end Mr. Gill was the means of retaining
the sword trade in Birmingham.

Sword-grinding is worth seeing.  Sword-makers find their principal employment in producing
Matchetts, a tool or weapon very much like the modern regulation cutlass, but stronger and
heavier, with a plain beech-wood handle, worth wholesale from 6d. to 9d. each.  They are used
in the East and West Indies, Ceylon, and South America, for cutting down sugar-canes and similar
uses.  We take the name to be Spanish; it is used by Defoe and Dampier.  We only mention the
article as one of the many odd manufactures made, but never sold retail, in England.

* * * * *

STEEL PENS.--All the steel pens made in England, and a great many sold in France, Germany,
and America, whatever names or devices they may bear, are manufactured in Birmingham.  In this
respect, as in many others of the same nature, the Birmingham manufacturers are very accommodating,
and quite prepared to stamp on their productions the American Eagle, the Cap of Liberty, the
effigy of Pio Nono, or of the Comte de Chambord, if they get the order, the cash, or a good
credit.  And they are very right; their business is to supply the article, the sentiment is
merely a matter of taste.

There are eighteen steel pen manufacturers in the Birmingham Directory, and eight penholder
makers.  Two manufacturers employ about 1,000 hands, and the other seventeen about as many more.

We can most of us remember when a long hard steel pen, which required the nicest management
to make it write, cost a shilling, and was used more as a curiosity than as a useful comfortable
instrument.  About 1820, or 1821, the first gross of three slit pens was sold wholesale at
7 pounds 4s. the gross of twelve dozen.  A better article is now sold at 6d. a gross.

The cheapest pens are now sold wholesale at 2d. a gross, the best at from 3s.6d. to 5s.; and
it has been calculated that Birmingham produces not less than a thousand million steel pens
every year.  America is the best foreign customer, in spite of a duty of twenty-four per cent;
France ranks next, for the French pens are bad and dear.

Mr. Gillott, who is one of the very first in the steel-pen trade, rose by his own mechanical
talents and prudent industry from a very humble station.  He was, we believe, a working mechanic,
and invented the first machine for making steel pens, which for a long period he worked with
his own hands; he makes a noble use of the wealth he has acquired; his manufactory is in every
respect a model for the imitation of his townsmen, as we shall show when we say a few words
about the condition of the working population; a liberal patron of our best modern artists,
he has made a collection of their works, which is open to the inspection of any respectable
stranger.

The following description of his manufactory, which is not open to strangers without special
cause shown, will be found interesting in a social as well as a commercial and mechanical point
of view.

* * * * *

GILLOTT'S STEEL-PEN FACTORY.--In the first department, sheets of steel received from Sheffield
are passed through rolling mills driven by steam, under charge of men and boys, until they
are reduced to the thinness of a steel pen, to the length of about thirty inches, and the breadth
of about three inches.  These steel slips are conveyed to a large roomy workshop, with windows
at both sides, scrupulously clean, where are seated in double rows an army of women and girls,
from fourteen to forty years of age, who, unlike most of the women employed in Birmingham manufactories,
are extremely neat in person and in dress.  A hand press is opposite each; the only sound to
be heard is the bump of the press, and the clinking of the small pieces of metal as they fall
from the block into the receptacle prepared for them.  One girl of average dexterity is able
to punch out one hundred gross per day.  Each division is superintended by a toolmaker, whose
business it is to keep the punches and presses in good working condition, to superintend the
work generally, and to keep order among the workpeople.

The next operation is to place the blank in a concave die, on which a slight touch from a concave
punch produces the shape of a semitube.  The slits and apertures which increase the elasticity
of the pen, and the maker's or vendor's name, are produced by a similar tool.

When complete all but the slit, the pens are soft and pliable, and may be bent or twisted in
the hand like a piece of thin lead.  They are collected in grosses, or great grosses, into
small square iron boxes, and placed by men who are exclusively employed in this department
in a furnace, where they remain until box and pens are of a white heat.  They are then taken
out and immediately thrown hissing into oil, which cures them of their softness, by making
them as brittle as wafers.  On being taken out they are put in a sieve to drain, and then into
a cylinder full of holes, invented by Mr. Gillott, which, rapidly revolving, extracts the last
drop of moisture from the pens, on a principle that has been successfully applied to drying
sugar, salt, and a vast number of other articles of the same nature.  By this invention Mr.
Gillott saves in oil from 200 to 300 pounds a-year.

The pens having been dried are placed in other cylinders, and polished by mutual friction,
produced by reverberatory motion.  They are then roasted or annealed, so as to procure the
requisite temper and colour, whether bronze or blue.  The last process is that of slitting,
which is done by women, with a sharp cutting tool.  One girl, with a quick practised finger,
can slit as many as 28,800 pens in a day.  They are now ready for the young girls whose duty
it is to count and pack them in boxes or grosses for the wholesale market.

It has lately been stated by one of a deputation to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the
subject of the paper duties, that steel pens for the French market are sent in bags instead
of arranged on cards to the loss of paper makers and female labour, in consequence of the heavy
excise duty on card board.

* * * * *

BRASSWORK.--Birmingham is by far the greatest producer of ornamental and useful brasswork.
In the directory will be found a list which affords some idea of the number and varieties of
the brass trade, as all these employ a certain number of working hands, varying from two or
three apprentices to many hundred skilled workmen.  It includes bell-founders, bottle-jack
makers, brass founders, bronze powder makers, brass casters, clasp makers, coach lamp furniture,
ornament makers, cock founders, compass makers, copper-smiths, cornice pole makers, curtain
ring, bronze wire fender, gas-fitting, lamps, chandeliers (partly brass, partly glass), ecclesiastical
ornament, lantern, letter-clip, mathematical instrument, brass and metallic bedstead, military
ornament, brass nail, saddlers' ironmonger, (chiefly brass), scale, beam, and weighing machines,
stair rod, moulding and astrigal, brass thimble makers, tube, brass and copper-wire drawers,
wire workers and weavers, and many other trades less directly connected with brass.

New articles are made in this metal every day.  One manufacturer, who first hit upon the hand-clip
for papers, made a very handsome sum by it.  The Registration of Designs Act has been a great
stimulus to certain branches of this trade.  Lucifer boxes are quite a new article, unknown
the other day, now manufactured in thousands for all quarters of the globe, Germany, Russia,
Holland, India, Australia, California.  Then there are ornaments for South American and Cuban
saddles and harness; rings for lassos, and bells for sheep, cattle, and sledges, brass rings,
as coins for Africa; and weights for weighing gold in California.

Among the branches of the brass trade which have become important, since the increase of emigration
about 5000 ship lamps have been made in one year, at a cheap rate; and within the last five
years brass egg cups have been sent in enormous numbers to Turkey, where they are used to hand
round coffee.  South America is a great mart for cheap brass ware.

Of this trade, it may be said, in the words of a vulgar proverb, "as one door shuts another opens."

The use of china and glass, in conjunction with brass for house furniture and chandeliers,
has also created a variety, and afforded an advantageous impetus to the trade.

Mr. Winfield is one of the manufacturers in brass whose showrooms are open to the public. 
He also has claims on our attention for the wise and philanthropic manner in which he has endeavoured
to supply the lamentable deficiency of education among the working classes.

He holds a very leading position as a manufacturer of balustrades, tables, window-cornices,
candelabra chandeliers, brackets, curtain-bands, and above all of metal bedsteads, which last
he has supplied to some of the chief royal and princely families of Europe, besides Spain,
Algeria, and the United States.  In all these works great attention has been paid to design
as well as workmanship, as was amply proved both at the local exhibition in 1849, where a large
gas bracket, in the Italian style, of brass, with Parisian ornaments, excited much admiration;
and in 1851, in Hyde Park, where we especially noted an ormolu cradle and French bedstead in
gilt and bronze, amid a number of capital works of his production.

Mr. Winfield is patentee of a curious process for drawing out the cylinders used in making
bedsteads.

Messrs. Messengers and Sons have one of the finest manufactories in ornamental iron, brass,
and bronze, for lamps, chandeliers, and table ornaments.  For a long series of years they have
spared no expense in obtaining the best models and educating their workmen in drawing and modelling.
In their show-rooms will be found many very pleasing statues in gold-colour, in bronze, and
copies from antique types of vases, lamps, candelabra, etc.

Messrs. Salt and Lloyd are also eminent lamp makers, and generally exhibit, beside table-lamps,
the last and best carriage-lamps.

Messrs. Ratcliffes are another enterprising firm.

All such of these manufactories as have show-rooms open to strangers, will be found by an inquiry
at any hotel; for although Birmingham is a large town, everybody knows everybody, and the cab
drivers will usually be found competent to guide through the voyage of investigation.

Next, after brass, we will take steel, divided into heavy and light steel toys.

* * * * *

HEAVY STEEL TOYS.--Heavy steel toys are the name by which, by a sort of Brummagem Bull, a variety
of articles which are the very reverse of toys, and which are often not made of steel at all,
are designated.  Heavy steel toys are tools or articles of an implement nature, used in domestic
economy.

The list includes nearly 600 articles.  Among these are included the tools of carpenters, coopers,
gardeners, butchers, glaziers, farriers, saddlers, tinmen, shoemakers, weavers, wheelwrights,
as well as corkscrews, sugar- tongs, sugar-nippers, boot-hooks, button-hooks, door-scrapers,
calipers, printing-irons, dog-collars, chains, whistles, tinderboxes, and tobacco- stoppers.

Hammers occupy a leading place, of which there are two or three hundred varieties, belonging
to different trades, each of which is divided into eight or ten different weights.  Birmingham
has the largest share of the heavy toy trade, although there are extensive manufacturers in
Sheffield and Wolverhampton.  Fine edge tools are chiefly and best made at Sheffield.

This trade increases annually in importance, as it consists of articles which are greatly in
demand in new countries; and new markets are opened by every new colonising enterprise of the
Anglo-Saxon race.  The manufacture includes a great deal of wood-work for handles, as well
as iron and steel.  For although many axes are made for the American market, after special
patterns, and with national mottoes, no handles are ever sent, as the backwoodsmen have better
wood for their purpose at command.  Our axe handles are stiff; a backwoodsman must have a flexible
handle or haft.

The Germans once tried to compete with us in the home market, but the attempt was a failure.

As an instance of the odd accidents that affect the Birmingham trade, about three years ago,
when flounces were in fashion, a great demand sprang up for pinking irons, previously only
used for ornamenting the hems of shrouds.  A workman informed the correspondent of the Morning
Chronicle that he had earned about 3 pounds a week for two years at making them.

The scientific tools of housebreakers are known to be made by certain journeymen in the steel
toy trade.  On the other hand, hand-cuffs, leg-irons, and similar restraining instruments are
manufactured for home use and exportation.

Occasionally, London and Liverpool houses in the Brazilian or Cuban trade have ordered suits
of chains, intended for the use of slave-ships.  These are cheap, coarse, painted black, and
horrid looking.  Among the orders on the books of a manufacturer, were several dozen pair of
hand-cuffs for ladies.

* * * * *

THE EDGE TOOL MANUFACTURE, which is increasing in Birmingham, probably in consequence of the
repeated strikes at Sheffield, added to the superior position of Birmingham as regards coal,
and the markets of London, Liverpool, and Bristol, is often carried on in conjunction with
that of steel toys. There are forty-five different kinds of axes; fourteen for the American
market, twelve adzes, twenty-six bills and bill-hooks, and upwards of seventy hoes for different
foreign countries--Spain, Portugal, South America, the United States, and Australia, which
will soon consume as much hardware as America did fifty years ago.

* * * * *

LIGHT STEEL TOYS.--These include chatelains, watch chains, keys, seals, purses, slides, beads,
waist buckles, dress swords, steel buttons for court dresses, bodkins, spectacle frames, knitting
and netting implements, and steel snuffers.  Shoe and knee buckles, which were once universally
worn, alone employed five thousand persons in their manufacture, when it was the staple trade
of the town.  The expense and inconvenience of shoe buckles sent them out of fashion.  Dragoons
hung in the stirrup, and cricketers tore the nails of their fingers in picking up cricket balls,
from the inconvenient buckle.

The trade is extremely fluctuating, and depends very much on inventive taste in which we are
manifestly inferior to the French.  Some articles we can make better than they can, but they
are always bringing out something new and pretty.  In small beads they undersell us enormously,
while in beads of 1/6th of an inch in diameter, and upwards, we can undersell them.

A visit to a manufactory of light steel toys will afford a great deal of amusement and instruction.

* * * * *

MEDALLING.--DIE SINKING.--Here again are trades by which Birmingham keeps up its communication
with all the civilised, and part of the uncivilised world. The first great improvements in
coining the current money of the realm originated at Soho, near Birmingham, at the manufactories
of two men whose memory Englishmen can never hold in sufficient respect--Matthew Boulton and
James Watt.  They were the inventors of the machinery now in use in the Royal Mint; for a long
period they coined the copper money, as also some silver money for the United Kingdom, as well
as money of all denominations for many foreign countries, tokens, and medals innumerable. 
They made coins for the French Convention.

During the war, when money was scarce and small notes were in circulation, many tradesmen,
and several public establishments issued "tokens," which were, in fact, metal promissory notes,
as they were seldom of the intrinsic value stamped on them.  By this expedient retailers advertised
themselves, and temporarily increased their capital.  Some successful speculators made fortunes,
others were ruined by the presentation of all their metal notes of hand at periods of panic.

At any rate, the manufacture of these articles had a great deal to do with the education of
workmen for the medal manufacture which is now so extensively carried on.

The dies from which coins and medals are struck, are, of course, all executed by hand, and
the excellence of each coin or medal depends on the skill of each individual workman; therefore
there has been no great improvement in execution--indeed, some medals and coins struck two
thousand years ago, rival, if they do not excel, the best works of the present day.  The improvements
of modern mechanical science are all in the die presses, and in producing cheap metal.  These
improvements have enabled Birmingham to establish a large trade in cheap medals, which are
issued in tens of thousands on every occasion that excites the public mind.  Jenny Lind and
Father Mathew were both excellent customers of the medallists in their day.

The medallists are not confined to the home market; France has been supplied with effigies
of her rival Presidents, Louis Napoleon and Cavaignac, and we should not be surprised to find
that some day a contract has been taken for the medals which the Pope blesses and distributes.
Schools and Temperance Societies are good customers, and occasionally a good order comes in
from a foreign state or colony, for coins.  In 1850 Mr. Ralph Heaton made ten tons of copper
coin for Bombay, called cock money, so called because bearing a cock on the obverse, from dies
purchased at the sale at Soho.

The late Sir Richard Thomason was a considerable manufacturer of medals, and a very curious
collection may be seen at the showrooms of his successor, Mr. G. R. Collis, who carries on
the same trade, and is consul for a number of countries between Turkey and Timbuctoo.

The most important part of the die-sinking trade, is that for making patterns in brass, mixed
metal, and iron in curtain bands, pins, lamp pillars, cornices, coffin furniture, and all articles
in which stamping has superseded the more expensive process of hammering out.

Within the last twenty years, and notably within the last ten years, public taste has required
an increased amount of ornament in all domestic manufactures; stimulated by this demand, great
improvements have been made in stamping, and excellence in the art of die-sinking has become
more widely diffused.  The Birmingham die-sinkers admit that they are inferior to the French
in design, while in the execution of cutting heavy steel dies, they are decidedly superior.
Die-sinking is an art, like painting or sculpture, which requires personal aptitude to enable
an apprentice to acquire excellence.

It is carried on in Birmingham by men who work themselves, employing two or three journeymen.
The names of these artists seldom appear.  A London or Parisian tradesman undertakes an order
which is passed to some noted Birmingham House, which transmits it to a hard-handed man in
a back street.

* * * * *

COFFIN ORNAMENTS.--The manufacture of ornaments for coffins is a very important part of the
trade, and it is curious to find, that even in this last concession to human vanity, there
is a constant demand for new designs.

Who is it that examines and compares the ornaments of one coffin with that of another?  We
never heard of the survivors of a deceased examining an undertaker's patterns.  And yet, a
house which consumes forty tons of cast iron per annum for coffin handles, stated to the gentleman
to whose letters we are indebted for this information, "Our travellers find it useless to show
themselves with their pattern books at an undertaker's, unless they have something tasteful,
new, and uncommon.  The orders for Ireland are chiefly for gilt furniture for coffins.  The
Scotch, also, are fond of gilt, and so are the people in the west of England.  But the taste
of the English is decidedly for black.  The Welsh like a mixture of black and white.  Coffin
lace is formed of very light stamped metal, and is made of almost as many patterns as the ribbons
of Coventry.  All our designs are registered, as there is a constant piracy going on, which
it is necessary to check."

Dies are cut in soft metal and then hardened.

Die-sinking is one of the arts so interesting in all its branches, from the first design to
the finished coin or ornament, that every intelligent traveller should endeavour to see it.

* * * * *

PLATERS, GILDERS, AND ELECTRO-PLATERS.--Large fortunes have been made in Birmingham by plating
copper, "in the good old times;" but Sheffield was, until within the last ten years, the principal
seat of the manufacture. Sheffield plate was a very superior article, and for years would look
and stand wear like silver.  Plating was effected by laying a thin film of silver on a sheet
of copper, which was afterwards shaped into tea or coffee services, forks, spoons, candlesticks,
trays, tea urns, and other articles for house use.  It was also applied to harness, saddlery,
and every thing formerly made of silver alone.  A great impetus was given to this trade by
our intercourse with the continent at the close of the war, which sent steel pronged forks
out of fashion.  The first inroad upon the plates on copper was made by the invention of white
metal, called German silver.  The next was the discovery of the art of plating by galvanic
instead of mechanical agency, now known as electro-plating.  The result of the application
of electric power to plating, however, has been to transfer a large share of the Sheffield
plate business to Birmingham.  It is a curious fact that a veterinary surgeon (of the name
of Askew) invented the first German silver manufactured in England, and that a Dr. Wright,
of the same town, discovered the practicability of electro-plating about the same time that
several other persons had discovered that metal could be deposited by a galvanic current, but
had not thought of applying it practically to manufactures.

The old system of plating is still carried on both in Sheffield and in Birmingham; improvements
have been introduced by the employment of a white metal instead of copper as the foundation,
and by grafting on, as it were, silver tips to forks and silver edges to prominent ornaments;
but the balance of advantage in economy and facility are so greatly in favour of the electro-
plating process, that, no doubt, when the patents under which it is now worked expire, its
use will become universal.

Since the first patent was published, important improvements have been made in France, Germany,
and America, which the original patentees have incorporated.  Copperplates cast from wood cuts
and stereotypes can be reproduced with great facility and economy, and the exact touches of
an artist in clay or wax can be reproduced in metal without the translation of casting.  Nothing
is too small or too large,--the colossal statue of an Amazon on horseback spearing a lioness,
by Kiss, the Berlin sculptor, exhibiting in the Hyde Park Exhibition of 1851, was copied in
zinc and bronzed by this process; and, by the same means, flowers, feathers, and even spiders'
webs have been covered with a metal film.

At present, a handsome electro-plated teapot, exactly resembling silver, may be purchased at
what a Britannia metal one cost fifteen years ago.

Messrs. Elkington and Mason, the purchasers of the secret from the original discoverer and
authors of valuable improvements, are at the head of one of the finest and most interesting
silver and electroplating establishments in the kingdom.

In commencing this new manufacture, the commercial difficulties they had to overcome, in addition
to those of a practical and mechanical nature, were very formidable.

The Messrs. Elkingtons originally intended to confine themselves to plating for the trade.
But the prejudice against the new process was so great, that the manufacturers of the needful
articles could not be induced to try it. Messrs. Elkington were, therefore, very unwillingly,
compelled to invest a capital in becoming manufacturers of plated forks, spoons, cruets, candlesticks,
tea services, and all the et ceteras of imitation silver.  The additional venture did not serve
their purpose.  The retail dealers, equally prejudiced, refused or neglected to push off the
new plate.  More anxiety and more expenditure of capital followed, for the patentees were obliged
to establish retail establishments in several cities in this country, America, and our Colonies.
The struggle ended in complete success; the use of electro plate has become universal, and
the manufacture is not confined to Messrs. Elkington, but is carried on, under licence from
the Patentees, by a vast number of firms.  The result, however, has been, as already stated,
to transfer a good deal of the plated trade of Sheffield to Birmingham, for the former town
has slowly and unwillingly adopted the new method, which has deprived its manufacturers of
their ancient pre-eminence.  Electro-plating has not, as was imagined on its first discovery,
lessened the demand for manual labour in the plate trade; on the contrary, it has largely increased
it, while extending the sale of a superior, and superseding an inferior, class of goods.

Although for all ordinary articles, such as forks, spoons, teapots, etc., there are, no doubt,
many manufacturers in Birmingham quite equal to Messrs. Elkingtons, their manufactory is especially
worth visiting; because, in the first place, the whole manufactory is open, and conveniently
arranged for the inspection of visitors; and, in the next place, the firm pay great attention
to the artistic merit of their more expensive work.  They spare no expense to obtain copies
from the best antique models, and original designs from living artists, beside keeping up a
staff of draughtsmen and modellers.

In the manufactory may be seen the whole history of a plated dinner service, from the pickle
fork to the epergne, or vase, which crowns the centre of the table at a grand banquet.

In one room men are at work in cutting out forks and spoons from flat sheets of white metal,
which is afterwards shaped, ornamented, engraved, and then, if to be covered with silver, subjected
to the action of a current of electricity, produced by an immense pair of magnets--if to be
coated with gold, to the action of galvanic batteries; this process requires explanation which
must be sought in works, like Mr. Alfred Smee's, especially devoted to the subject.  Then comes
the burnishing, by the action of leather-covered wheels and wire brushes, in steam-driven motion,
and then the burnishing by hand, which is chiefly performed by young girls and women.  And
an agreeable and profitable occupation it seems to be.

The manufacture of such articles as teapots is equally interesting.  In the process of joining
such parts as the handle and spout by hard solder, that is to say, solder as difficult to melt
as the main body of the object, one of the most valuable inventions for chemical processes,
the blow-pipe, is employed with the aid of two other great scientific aids of modern times.
The flame of the blow-pipe is made by a stream of gas, and driven, instead of by a man's breath,
by a steam blast, so that the mechanic has a power and a facility of manipulation which would
be unattainable under the old system of working with a lamp and puffed out cheeks.  There is
great matter for reflection in the sight of the hundreds of ingenious industrious workmen and
workwomen under one roof, employed mainly through the agency of three powers, which, if not
discovered, were utilised in the last years of the eighteenth, and early years of the nineteenth
century--Steam, Gas and Electricity.

In one series of the workshops of this same establishment, a considerable manufacture of genuine
silver plate is carried on, and it is curious to find mechanics engaged in hammering out or
chasing plate, using exactly the same tool that was employed in the fifteenth century, or perhaps
in Roman times. No improvement has, or, as it would appear, can be, effected; all superiority
now, as then, depending on the workmen.

A great deal of ornamental work, of a stereotype character, is done by stamping instead of
chasing.  The steel dies for this purpose form a very costly stock in trade.  A single pair
of dies for a sacramental cup will sometimes cost 150 pounds.

Among the modern improvements, we must not fail to note the patent seamless teapots of Britannia
metal, and white metal, electrotyped--capital things for bachelors, the spouts are not likely
to melt off on the hob.

The show rooms of this establishment contain, in addition to the ordinary contents of a silversmith's
shop, a number of exquisite copies in gold, silver, and bronze electro-plate of cups and vases
of Greek and Etruscan execution, and of chased work by Benvenuto Cellini, and other master
goldsmiths of the fifteenth century.

The Messrs. Elkington have doubled their trade since the Birmingham Exhibition in 1848, and
there is reason to believe that, instead of displacing labour as was anticipated, this invention
has increased the number and the wages of the parties employed.

* * * * *

The Britannia Metal manufacture is closely allied to the plate trade; an ingenious improvement,
well worth examination, has recently been introduced by Messrs. Sturgis of Broad Street, by
which teapots are cast whole, instead of having the spouts and handles soldered on.

* * * * *

The Gilt Toy and Mock Jewellery Trade, once one of the staple employments of Birmingham artizans,
has dwindled away until it now occupies a very insignificant place in the Directory.  Bad cheap
articles, with neglect of novelty and taste in design, ruined it.  In cheap rubbish foreigners
can always beat us, but the Birmingham gilt toy men made things "to sell" until no one would buy.

* * * * *

FOX AND HENDERSON'S MANUFACTORY.--The London works conducted by Messrs. Fox, Henderson, and
Co., who have become known to all the world by their rapid and successful erection of the Crystal
Palace, are situated at Smethwick, about four miles from Birmingham on the Dudley Road.  They
were established after the commencement of the London and Birmingham Railway, for the manufacture
of iron and machinery required in the construction of railways.

The shops, which are of large dimensions, are built in a quadrangle, enclosing a large area
or open space, which is employed as a yard for material or finished goods as may be accidentally
required.  The first place into which the stranger is shown is called the Truck shop, and will
accommodate three hundred carriage builders and carpenters.  Adjoining it is the Boiler Makers'
shop, or, more properly, a shop for workers in plate-iron, for boilers are not made in the
establishment, but iron doors, navy casks, and wrought iron railway carriages are produced
in this department.  These shops form one side of the quadrangle.

The forges, which are very numerous, occupy the first department of another side of the range
of buildings.  The forges, as is now usual, are supplied with air by the motion of a fan worked
by the engine, and by the side of them many strong and stalwart arms are wielded with as much
skill and ingenuity as distinguished some of the smiths of the middle ages.  The Mechanical
Engineering shops join the forges, and in them will be found many of those beautiful self-acting
tools for which this age is so remarkable.  There are drilling, planing, screwing, and slotting
machines of various designs and adapted to different purposes, as well as numerous expensive
and very perfect lathes.  Here the switches used for conducting trains from one line to another
are made, as well as all kinds of machine work.  Connected with this is the Turntable shop,
which is, to a stranger, as interesting as any part of the establishment, from the magnitude
of the machinery and the ease with which gigantic masses of iron are carried about by the traveller
to and from the planing and other machines.  The Wheel shop, which is next visited, is chiefly
used for the manufacture of railway carriage wheels, of which, as must be well known, there
are many varieties.  The Foundry and Anchor manufactory must not be omitted in an enumeration
of the departments.

The other two sides of the quadrangle are occupied by saw-pits, painters' shops, stores, offices,
and all the conveniences required for carrying on a business which frequently gives employment
to eleven or twelve hundred men.

The reputation of Messrs. Fox, Henderson, and Co., has been long established among engineers
for the construction of railway bridges, iron roofs, and works of a similar kind; but it has
been made European, if not universal, by the rapidity and skill with which they have constructed
the Industrial Exhibition.

Strangers, if introduced, are permitted to see the works.

Besides the manufactures we have enumerated and described, there are many others of more or
less importance; and new inventions and the spur of enterprise are creating new manufactures
in Birmingham every day.

There are manufacturers of steam-engines and other machinery, of stoves, grates, and other
iron foundry.  One firm (Messrs. Hardman Iliffe) employs a great number of workmen in making
every kind of church furniture, from the most approved mediaeval models and the designs of
Mr. Pugin.  Another executes stained-glass windows.  Saddlery and harness, or parts of saddles
and whips, employ a certain number of hands; and not only imitation but a good deal of real
jewellery is made.  There is one large and curious manufactory of gold chains.

In a word, there is no town in the world in which the execution of work, however new or complex,
in metal, wood, horn, or ivory, can be so certainly effected as in Birmingham.

There are not many merchants in Birmingham, in the large sense of the term. The chief mercantile
business is done by parties termed factors, who in effect are, if not actually, the agents
of great merchants.  These "factors" purchase what they need for their wholesale customers
from the manufacturers. About 2,000 of the Birmingham manufacturers are what are termed garret-
masters; they work themselves, and employ a few hands.  The "factor" buys as few as half-a-dozen
tea-pots, or a hundred gross of pearl buttons, from these little men, until he makes up his
number.  His business partakes more of the character of retail than wholesale, and the grinding--technically
slaughtering--system of the factors of Birmingham has an unfavourable Yankeefying effect on
their character.

The principal mercantile houses are in direct communication with American houses, if not actual
partners or agents.  A panic in New York finds an immediate echo in Warwickshire and Staffordshire,
just as a fall or rise of cotton in New Orleans is immediately felt in Lancashire.

It is worth observing, that in some instances great transactions are carried on with wonderfully
little show in Birmingham, and no state.  We could not give a better instance of the difficulty
of "judging by appearances" than in the following sketch from nature.

There is a broad street of tall mean houses, which, except at the workmen's dinner hour, seems
always empty.

In this street is a large house of a dirty, faded appearance; the cobwebbed windows blocked
up; the door with a broken knocker and a sad want of paint. It is evidently the ci-devant residence
of a Birmingham manufacturer of the old school, before the suburbs of Edgbaston and Handsworth
sprang up, now turned into a warehouse or receptacle for lumber.  As to apply to the front
door would be useless, you turn up a dark passage at the side, and reach another dingy door,
which gives way with a rattle at your touch, and closes with a rattle and a bang; passing through
you ascend a flight of creaking deal stairs, and reach a suite of low rooms, about as imposing
in appearance as a deserted printing-office.  A few juvenile clerks--the very converse of the
snug merchants' clerks of the City of London--are distributed about.  A stranger would not
give 50 pounds for the furniture, capital, and credit, of the whole concern.

And yet, in this strange place, is conducted a trade of many tens of thousands per annum, with
branches in all the principal towns of Germany, Spain, Portugal, South America, and British India!

A rapid idea of the Birmingham hardware trade may be obtained from the extensive show-rooms
of Messrs. Herbert, in the Bull-ring.

If we have failed to do justice to any branch of manufacture, we have a very sufficient excuse
in the difficulty we experienced in obtaining access to manufactories, or even information
as to what was worth examination.

HEALTH AND EDUCATION.

After detailing at such length the material advantages of this interesting and important community,
we should not be doing right if we did not present the reverse of the medal in certain drawbacks
and deficiencies which seriously interfere with the prosperity and progress of "the hardware
village."

The Birmingham public are so often in the habit of hearing from their favourite orators that
they are the most intelligent, moral, and intellectual people in the world,--that their town
is the healthiest, and their opinions the soundest, of any community in England, that it is
not extraordinary if they overlook blots which are plain enough to a stranger.  Perhaps they
are quite right; perhaps they are more honest, more sensible, more sound politicians, than
any other British community.  Perhaps, too, they are cleaner, more sober, and better educated
than the towns of A, B, and C; but, without entering into comparisons, which, in such cases,
are of no practical benefit, we shall proceed to show that, with all their excellent industrious,
intelligent, and ingenious qualities, the people of Birmingham are much more dirty, drunken,
and uneducated than they ought to be, considering that the town is in a very healthy situation;
that the mass of the population is engaged in skilled employments, and that patriots, bearded
and unbearded, are plentiful, who seem to have a great deal of influence, for good or evil.

First, then, as to drunkenness, the great parent of British poverty and crime--drunkenness,
which is a greater tax upon us than the National Debt; let us see what share that has in the
grievances of Birmingham.

It appears that in 1850 there were, including hotels, taverns, gin-shops, and beer-shops, altogether
1293 establishments for the supply of intoxicating liquors.  The total number of houses in
the borough being 43,000, it results that in every 33 houses one is a wine, beer, or spirit
shop.  That as the number of bakers' and chandlers' shops is only 871, there are 422 more shops
engaged in selling drink than in selling bread, and if only four persons be supposed to be
supported by selling liquors, that will be more than twice as many as are engaged in the gun
trade, viz., 2400.  Or to put the calculation in another form, if we allow the sum of 50 pounds
per annum as the wages of the five thousand persons who live by the sale of intoxicating drinks,
it will be found that the people of Birmingham must expend at least a quarter of a million
on wine, beer, and spirits.

That too much is so expended is proved by the police returns, which show that out of 3400 persons
taken into custody in 1849, nearly half the offences arose from intoxication.

In other respects, considering the population, the crime of Birmingham is rather below than
above average.  It cannot be said that it is either a brutal or dishonest, but it is essentially
a drunken town.  The causes of the prevalence of this degrading vice are several, and may be
traced out very clearly.

Metal work is hard and thirsty work, but it may be doubted whether what is really drunk while
at work, or immediately after work, does harm.  But it has long been, and still is, the habit
of the mechanics in a number of trades, to make a holiday of Monday; it has even a local name--it
is called Shackling day, "Shackling" being a term which can be perfectly translated by the
French verb, flaner.  A Shackler must drink, if not smoke.

The more plentiful and pressing the work is, the more determined are the men engaged to make
Saint Monday, and very often Tuesday and Wednesday also.

The time so lost when trade is at high water, and the losses imposed on the manufacturer by
the consequent non-fulfilment of contracts, eventually form a second drawback on the earnings
of the workman, in addition to the day's wages lost, and the days' wages spent on "shackling days."

Secondly, it has been proved that a large percentage of the married women engaged in work factories
are compelled so to work to support their families in consequence of the improvidence of their
husbands.

Thirdly, in the same way children, from a very early age,--seven years, and even younger,--work
in order to support their improvident parents.

Women engaged in work all day cannot keep comfortable houses for their husbands.  An uncomfortable
home drives a husband, no matter of what rank, to the tavern or the club.

The custom of sending children to work from the time they can earn sixpence a-week, renders
education impossible.  In the evenings they are only fit to sleep: on Sundays, in fine weather,
the majority very naturally prefer walking in the fields to the dry task of acquiring knowledge,
the value of which they are not sufficiently educated to appreciate.

The effect of the want of education and the habit of idle Mondays on the male population is
sufficiently lamentable.  A man who can neither read nor write, in addition to the abstract
pleasure Saxons have in drinking, finds an occupation and a substitute for ideas in a pot and
pipe.  The effect on the female population is even more baneful.  They are so fully occupied
that they have neither time to write, nor to cook, to read nor to sew, and they become wives
and mothers with no better qualification for their important duties than girls educated in
a fashionable school, without being able to obtain the assistance of servants and governesses.

Wives engaged in factories are obliged to leave their children to the care of strangers or
elder children, themselves scarcely above the age of children.

One consequence is, that according to the report of a committee of physicians and surgeons
in 1840: "The ratio of infant mortality in Birmingham is very considerable, greatly exceeding
that of the metropolis, and of the agricultural districts, though not as high as in some provincial
towns." "Severe burns and scalds, particularly the former, are so numerous, that in the general
hospital two rooms are devoted for their reception."

We have not been able to obtain any precise statistics of education among the operative classes;
but we find that among criminals upwards of ninety per cent. are either totally or very imperfectly
educated, and that of 15,000 young persons between the age of ten and fifteen engaged in manufacture,
not more than 1,000 have an opportunity of education, except from Sunday schools.

In Sunday schools the instruction is confined to reading the scriptures and religious books,
except in the schools attached to the meeting-houses of the Society of Friends and the Unitarians,
the conductors of which have had the good sense to accommodate their plans to the peculiar
wants of a manufacturing district.

No general movement seems to have been attempted to correct this crying evil of infant employment
and neglected education, none of the patriots, bearded or shaven, have ventured to exert their
strong lungs in so unpopular a cause: it is so much easier to stand on your own dunghill and
abuse the lord of the manor than to put on an apron and a cap, mix up the lime and water, and
whitewash your own cottage.  But several manufacturers have honourably distinguished themselves
by beginning the work of reformation at home.

Mr. Gillet, the pen manufacturer, whose work is principally done by females, admits no girls
into his shops under thirteen; he makes ability to read indispensable, and gives a preference
in obtaining employment to those who can write; and requires a certificate of regular attendance
from a Sunday school teacher.

Mr. Winfield, who employs nearly five hundred hands, of whom few are women, established an
evening school in 1844, at a charge of a penny a week, for his own work people, in which reading,
writing, arithmetic, English grammar, geography, and drawing, are taught, with occasional lectures
on the principles of mechanics, natural philosophy, and history.  A small library is attached
to the school.

"When the school was first established, it was remarked that scarcely a boy knew his companion
except by a nickname, and that fights on entering and leaving school were of common occurrence.
At present the practice of nicknames has disappeared, and a fight does not take place once
in three months.

"The proceedings of the evening commenced with a hymn.  An orphan boy, fourteen years of age,
a self-taught musician, placed himself before a small organ, provided by Mr. Winfield, and
played the evening hymn.  All the boys accompanied him with their voices, and sang very creditably;
after this they were formed into their usual classes.

"The school labours under great disadvantages; the hours of attendance are not sufficiently
long; even these few hours are infringed on when trade is brisk, and the men, working over-hours,
require the boys to assist them; and from physical exhaustion of the boys after the labour
of the day, they sometimes fall asleep over their books.

"A hymn is sung, a prayer said, and the bible read without comment, no catechism or doctrinal
point is introduced.  The school includes the sons of people of the Church of England, Roman
Catholics, Wesleyans, Presbyterians, and Unitarians."

Messrs. Peyton & Barlow, metal-bedstead makers, Mr. Bacchus, glass-maker, Mr. Middlemore, currier,
and Messrs. Chance, glassmakers, have also established schools for the parties in their employ.

Mr. William Chance is an earnest philanthropist; he has established a ragged school, at his
own expense, in Birmingham, open to all, and at his works in Spon Lane, West Bromwich, one
school for his workmen alone, and another open to the neighbourhood.

The first school, in Spon Lane, is divided into three departments, for infants, for girls,
and for boys.  A weekly charge of 3d. is made, for which books and stationery are provided;
punctual attendance and cleanliness are conditions insisted upon.  The number of scholars,
of whom one-third are from Messrs. Chance's works, has steadily increased from the time of
opening.  The boys are instructed in reading, writing, arithmetic, grammar, geography, and
the elements of drawing.  The girls are taught plain needlework instead of drawing.  No catechism
is taught, but the bible is read without comment.  One- half are the children of parents in
communion with the Church of England, and the other half of Dissenters.  In 1850 it contained
190 boys, 80 girls, and 150 infants.

It is difficult to rate too highly the advantage the operative classes obtain from the preliminary
training afforded by infant schools.  But infant schools are useless, if the education is to
cease at seven years old.

The other school is strictly confined to the boys and men employed in the glass works.  It
opened July, 1850, with 110 scholars, all boys from twelve years of age, before which none
are admitted into the manufactory.  By degrees the men, at first deterred by shame, began to
attend, and at present a considerable number avail themselves of the advantage for commencing
or extending the imperfect education they had obtained at Sunday Schools.

These schools are not self-supporting, but are found, even in a commercial point of view, to
repay the philanthropic firm by whom they have been founded and supported.

The Birmingham Free and Industrial School, founded in 1847 by the energetic exertions of the
Hon. and Rev. Grantham Yorke, Rector of St. Philip, includes a day school for boys and girls
above seven years of age; two industrial classes; and an asylum for deserted and orphans. 
The scholars are not of the class to which we are specially calling attention.  We shall, therefore,
content ourselves with mentioning the existence of such a School for the refuse population
of this large town.

The deficient education of the working classes, consequent on unregulated infant labour, would
alone be sufficient to account for the prevalence of the idle custom of losing at least one
day every week in busy times, and the drinking habits, which are a blot upon a population of
superior intelligence. But a still more demoralizing influence exists in the state of the dwellings
of the working classes in Birmingham, which, although at first sight very attractive in appearance,
forming neat courts of cottages, compared with the crowded lodging-houses of many manufacturing
towns, are, nevertheless, lamentably deficient in two essentials for health and decency, viz.,
efficient drainage, and a sufficient supply of wholesome water.

In two thousand courts, inhabited by fifty thousand people, the supply of water is either obtained
at great loss of time from wells, often dirty, sometimes fetid, or purchased at an extravagant
rate from itinerant water- carriers.

A Private Water Company exists, but has scarcely been called upon at all to supply the houses
of the working classes.  Under these circumstances, with a clean external appearance, the filth
in which fifty thousand people live seems to be only understood by the local Medical Inspectors,
whose reports have hitherto produced so little effect, it is not extraordinary that after long
hours of toil, the inhabitants fly to the bright saloons of gin shops, and the snug tap-rooms
of beer shops.

We have dwelt thus at length upon the moral, and educational, and sanitary shortcomings of
a town which can, no doubt, draw comparisons, very much to its own advantage, with other manufacturing
district towns, because Birmingham is in a position to set an example, to lead the way in an
all- important reform without consulting the opinions of the Ministers or the Parliament of
the day.  Birmingham may, if it pleases, go far toward affording every working man the means
of drinking and washing in an ample supply of clean water, of living in a well-drained cottage,
and of sending his children to school for two hours every day, without waiting for the decision
of Parliament upon all the crotchets of the Chartists, or plans of the Financial Reform Association.

Pity it is that none of the well-applauded Brummagem patriots have pluck enough to battle a
little unpopularity in so honest a cause.  But clap-trap costs less trouble than work, and
gets more cheers.

It is the misfortune of Birmingham to be sacrificed to the disagreements of two rival factions,
one calling itself Conservative, and the other Radical, both filling the pockets and doing
the work of lawyers at the expense of the ratepayers.

Nothing can be done until the municipal Corporation obtains the powers now vested in several
sets of virtually irresponsible Commissioners.  When these wars of the Pots and Kettles are
ended, the ratepayers will be able to turn their undivided attention to local reforms without
having their minds distracted by those little legal squabbles, under cover of which business
is neglected, and pockets are picked.  It is to be hoped that the session of 1851 will settle
this point.

The whole kingdom is interested in the good government and prosperity of its greatest inland
town. {113}

WARWICK, LEAMINGTON, KENILWORTH, STRATFORD ON AVON.

Before leaving Birmingham, it will be convenient to say something about Warwick, Leamington,
Kenilworth, and Stratford on Avon, of which the one is the assize town, another the watering
place, and the third and fourth the antiquarian or rather romantic lions of the county in which
Birmingham stands first, for wealth, population, manufacturing, and political importance. Warwick,
in spite of its parliamentary, municipal, and assize honours, would soon be as much forgotten
as a hundred other dull little country towns, without local trade or local attractions, if
it were not for the castle, the church, and the river, which, in connection with striking epochs
in England's history, will ever render it a favourite pilgrimage.

After being destroyed by the Danes, Warwick was restored by Ethelfreda, the daughter of Alfred
the Great, who built a fort there, A.D. 913.  At Domesday Survey it was a borough, and contained
261 houses, of which 126 belonged to the king.  Members were sent to Parliament in the time
of Edward I., when also the paving of the town and the erection of a wall round it were commenced.
In the time of Philip and Mary, the first charter of incorporation was granted.

The town stands on the west side of the river Avon,--Shakspeare's Avon, from which it is separated
by Warwick Castle and grounds.  It was formerly a little county metropolis, many of the families
of rank and fortune had winter residences there; the Warwick balls were frequented by a select
and exclusive set; a small theatre was well supported, and few races assembled more distinguished
company than used to throng the Warwick course once a year, in family coaches and four-in-hands.
All this grandeur has departed, Leamington has absorbed the wealth and fashion of Warwick,
the town mansions have fallen into plebeian hands, the theatre has ceased to be a training
school for the London boards, the streets are silent except when a little temporary bustle
is produced by an influx of Birmingham attorneys, their clients, and witnesses, at the assizes,
of stout agriculturists and holiday labourers on "fair days," or the annual "mop," when an
ox is roasted whole, and lads and lasses of rosy rural breed range themselves along the pavement
to be hired, or at the races twice a year, when, although the four horses with postilions and
outriders are seldom seen, railroads from a distance, and Leamington from close at hand, pour
a variegated stream of sightseers and gamblers on one of the prettiest pieces of ground in England.

Warwick has no manufactures, but, being a borough very evenly balanced between the two contending
political parties, its inhabitants have enjoyed a fuller share of the favours of Government
than has fallen to the lot of towns of more commercial importance.

Warwick stands on solid rock, in which the cellars are excavated; and this circumstance, added
to its position on the top of a hill, renders it particularly dry and clean.

There are several excellent inns, supported by the surrounding' farmers, which are much to
be preferred to more fashionable hotels.  The roast geese to be found at the farmers' ordinaries
on market days about Michaelmas time, are worthy of commendation; and the farmers themselves,
being of a jovial and hospitable turn of mind, render these dinners pleasanter to a stranger
who can dine at an unfashionable hour, than the eternal "anything you please, sir; steak or
chop, sir," in a solitary box, which haunts us for our sins in the coffee-rooms of English hotels.

Warwick deserves a long journey, if it were only for the sake of the fine woodland scenery
which surrounds it for ten miles, but the castle is the especial object of attraction,--a castle
which realizes almost more than any other those romantic ideas of a feudal abode which were
first put into circulation by the "Castle of Otranto," and became part of the education of
our youth under the influence of the genius of Sir Walter Scott.

The castle rises upon the brink of the river, which foams past over the weir of an ancient
mill, where once the inhabitants of the borough were bound by feudal service to grind all their
corn.  The best approach is from the Leamington Lower Road, over a bridge of one arch, built
by a late Earl of Warwick.  Caesar's and Guy's towers rise into sight from a surrounding grove.
The entrance is through an arched gateway, past a lodge, where the relics of Earl Guy, the
dun cow slayer, are preserved; and a winding avenue cut in solid rock effects a sort of surprise,
which, as the castle comes again suddenly into view, is very pleasing.  The exterior realizes
a baronial abode of the fourteenth or fifteenth century; the interior has been modernized sufficiently
to be made comfortable, still retaining many striking features of its ancient state.  A closely
cropped green sward covers the quadrangle, which was formerly the tilting ground.

The date of Caesar's tower, the oldest part of the building, is uncertain. Guy's tower, of
the latter part of the fourteenth century, is in fine preservation.

The great entrance hall, a grand old room sixty-two feet by thirty-seven, is adorned with armour
and other appurtenances to feudal state.  At a great fire-place with fire dogs, room might
be found for a cartload of faggots.  A suite of rooms, commanding views of delightful scenery,
are adorned with ancient tapestry, armour, and pictures by Rubens, Vandyke, Velasquez, and
other eminent painters.  Among the portraits are Ignatius Loyola, the founder of the Jesuits,
Prince Rupert, and Charles I. on horseback, by Vandyke.

Hours may be profitably and agreeably spent in investigating the treasures of Warwick Castle.
The grounds, although not extensive, are picturesquely arranged; in one of the greenhouses,
the Warwick vase, an antique celebrated for its size and beauty, will be found.  The numerous
copies in various materials, but especially in metals, cast in Birmingham, have rendered the
form of this relic of classic art well known.

After the Castle, St. Mary's Church must be visited for its beautiful chapel with altar tomb,
on which lies prostrate in humble prayer the effigy of Richard Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick,
styled "the Good."  This Beauchamp was Regent of France in 1425, during the absence of the
Duke of Bedford, and carried on the war there with signal success.  He was afterwards governor
of the infant king, Henry VI.  While a second time ruling over France, he died at Rouen on
the 30th April, 1439.  It was the daughter of the Good Earl who married Richard Nevil, created,
on succeeding to the Warwick estates through his wife, Earl of Warwick, known as "the king
maker;" a grand character in Shakspeare's Henry VI., and the hero of Sir Bulwer Lytton's "Last
of the Barons."

Then there is Leicester Hospital, founded in the time of Richard II., as two guilds, in honour
of the Virgin and St. George the Martyr, which, after the Reformation, was re-established under
its present name by Queen Elizabeth's favourite, Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, as an almshouse
for a master and twelve brethren, "being impotent or infirm men."  These last have been, in
consequence of the improved value of the trust-funds, increased to twenty, and receive each
an allowance of 80 pounds per annum: the master has 400 pounds.  The buildings of this charity
consist of a quadrangle, formed by the brethren's lodgings and public kitchen, of a chapel
of ancient architecture over the west gate of the town, and an ancient hall.

Previous to the Reform Bill, the influence of the Warwick family returned two members for the
borough of Warwick: since that period they have as yet only returned one; but, in the absence
of the countervailing influence of any manufactures, it seems likely that a popular Earl, of
whatever politics, would be able to resume the ancient influence of the house, and again return
two.

* * * * *

LEAMINGTON, about two miles distant, may be reached by two turnpike roads and a pleasant footpath;
the distance of all being about two miles.

Mineral waters, fashion, a clever physician, the Warwickshire hounds, the surplus capital of
Birmingham, speculative builders, and excellent sanitary regulations have contributed to the
rapid rise of this picturesque and fashionable watering-place; in what proportions it would
be difficult to say.

The waters, which resemble mild Epsom salts, first brought the village into notice in 1794,
although the existence of mineral springs at Leamington Priory had been recorded by Camden
and Dugdale.  In 1794 people drank harder than they do now, read less, played cards more, were
altogether "faster," and had more need of purifying waters and pump-room amusements.  A long
war shut out our idlers from the Continent, and created an additional demand for our native
mineral produce.  At a later period the talents of Dr. Jephson attracted an army of invalids
and would-be invalids; Sir Walter Scott's novels brought Kenilworth and Warwick Castle into
fashion, just as Garrick, like a second Peter the Hermit, preached up a pilgrimage to Stratford-on-
Avon.  So land-jobbers and builders rushed to prepare tempting abodes for the armies of the
sick, the sporting, and the romantic, who gathered round the springs.

Although the beautiful stone which has made Bath the queen of watering- places, was not to
be had, the materials for Roman cement, then lately invented, were plentiful.  With these aids
the town authorities had the good sense to enforce cleanliness, and all manner of rules for
making the streets fit for the lounging promenades of the well-dressed.  Water-carts and brooms
were kept in active employment; beggars and dust-heaps were under the eye of a vigilant police.

The result was, that at the expense of many ruined builders and speculators, Leamington grew
from a pretty village into a fine town, peopled not only by invalids in the water-drinking
season, and sportsmen in the winter season, but by a number of permanent residents of independent
fortune, of all ranks between retired manufacturers and Irish peers.  Attached to the manufacturing
districts, it has become what Brighton is to the London Stock Exchange.

As hunting quarters, Leamington is convenient for men with few horses, as the meets are near
and the railways convenient.  An ill-natured opinion prevails that the scarlet coat is more
worn there by fortune-hunters than fox-hunters, and that the tailor is a person of more importance
with the majority of the field than the huntsman; but this story probably originates in the
number of carriages full of pretty faces to be found at the cover sides round Leamington. 
The country cannot be compared with Northamptonshire or Leicestershire, or even Oxfordshire.
The farmers are better sportsmen than agriculturists.  Warwickshire landlords think more of
the politics of their tenants, than of their intelligence or capital.  Great improvements have,
however, been effected within the last ten years, and we must not forget to mention that the
Birmingham Agricultural and Poultry Show, which is the finest local exhibition in the kingdom,
draws a great many of its exhibitors from this county.

Leamington, long without direct railway communication, is now wrapped up between the broad-gauge
and the narrow-gauge, like a hare in a bottle-spit. The opening of the line to Rugby affords
a new short way to London.  The population will henceforward increase at the expense of its
gentility, but the police and sanitary arrangements before alluded to, will always make Leamington
a favourite with invalids, hypochondriacs, and flaneurs.

The multiplicity of these railroads compels us to abandon the plan of describing, as we pass,
the more celebrated towns, mansions, or castles, because it would be impossible to follow out
such a zig-zag of topography.  It is better to take it for granted that the traveller will
stop at certain places, and from them make excursions to everything worth seeing in the neighbourhood.

In this manner, as Birmingham gave occasion for an examination into the leading manufactures,
we presume that Leamington will be the best central encampment for a survey of everything within
a circle of ten miles interesting to the Antiquarian, the Historian, the Artist, the Poet,
the Agriculturist, and the happy beings who have a taste for all these pursuits.

The number of interesting places within an easy walk or drive of Leamington, forms one of its
great advantages as a watering place.

Either on foot or in a carriage (and Leamington is extremely well provided with carriages for
hire), Warwick Castle, or Stratford-on-Avon, or Guy's Cliff, and Kenilworth, or Stoneleigh
Abbey, may be visited in the course of a day, or part of a day.

The detailed beauties of these places will be found fully set forth in county histories and
local guides.  A brief reference, sufficient to enable a traveller to make up a plan of campaign,
will be all we shall attempt.

* * * * *

STONELEIGH ABBEY, the residence of Lord Leigh, is noticeable for its fine woodland scenery,--splendid
oaks adorn the Park, and as having been the subject of a series of very extraordinary trials
at the suit of claimants of the estate and ancient title.  The true heirs of this estate have
never been discovered; many claimants have successively appeared, and endeavoured to prop up
their claims by extraordinary fabrications of evidence.  For instance, a certain tombstone,
bearing inscriptions of great importance, was not only described and sworn to by a cloud of
witnesses, as having been at a certain year in Stoneleigh Church, but other witnesses, with
equal circumstantiality, related how, on a particular occasion, this said tombstone was taken
down and destroyed.  And yet, it was clearly proved before the House of Lords that no such
tombstone ever existed.

The present family are now secure in the estates under the Statute of Limitations, but the
late Peer, up to a short period before the old title was revived in his favour, occupied Stoneleigh
as a trustee, as it were, for want of a better claimant.

In the incidents of the Leigh Peerage, are the materials of half-a-dozen romances.

* * * * *

GUY'S CLIFF--where Guy, Earl of Warwick, and slayer of the Dun Cow, lived and died as a hermit,
fed daily by his Countess, little knowing whom she fed--is situated on the banks of the Avon,
about a mile from Warwick, on the high road to Kenilworth, and may also be approached by footpaths
across the fields leading to the same village.  The pictures of Guy's Cliff have been extravagantly
praised, but the natural and artificial beauties of its gardens and pleasure grounds constitute
its chief attraction.  For, says Dugdale, it is "a place of so great delight in respect to
the river gliding below the rock, the dry wholesome situation, and the fair grove of lofty
elms overshadowing it, that to one who desireth a retired life, either for his devotions or
study, the like is hardly to be found."

What Dugdale said two hundred years ago may truly be repeated now, especially in a warm autumn
or summer evening, when the click of a water-mill adds sound to the pleasure to be derived
from the thick shade of the lofty trees overhead, mossy turf under the feet, and the sight
of flowing water.  Henry V. visited this hermitage; and Shakspeare, on what authority we know
not, is said to have frequented it.

* * * * *

KENILWORTH follows Guy's Cliff, once a retired country village of one street, one church, and
one inn, now vulgarized by being made the site of a railway station.  At the risk of offending
the Kenilworthians, we strongly advise the romantic youths and maidens inspired by Sir Walter
Scott's romance not to visit the ruins, which, although an excellent excuse and pleasant situation
for a picnic, have nothing romantic about them beyond grey walls.  The woods and waters which
formed so important a part of the scenery during Queen Elizabeth's visit, have disappeared,
as well as all the stately buildings.

At the same time, imagination will go a long way, and it may not be a day ill spent after reading
Laleham's "Princely Pleasures of Kenilworth," in which he describes what he himself saw when
Queen Elizabeth visited the Earl of Leicester there in 1575, to journey over, especially if
accompanied by a cold collation, including a salad of the Avon crawfish, and a little iced
punch. It would be still better for good pedestrians to walk the distance by the fields and
push on to the inn for refreshment, without which all tame scenery is so very flat.  In the
sublimity of the Alps, the Pyrenees, or even the great Highland hills, a man may forget his
dinner; but, when within the verge of the horizon church-towers and smoking chimneys of farm-houses
continually occur, visions of fat, brown, sucking pigs, rashers of ham and boiled fowls, with
foaming tankards, will intrude unbidden after an hour or two of contemplation.

* * * * *

STRATFORD ON AVON, with SHOTTERY, where Ann Hathaway was courted by Shakspeare and CHARLECOTE,
the residence of the Sir Thomas Lucy whom the poet immortalised as Justice Shallow, are all
within ten miles of Leamington.  On all these so much has been written that we will not venture
to "pile up the agony" any higher.  The best companion on the road to Stratford is Charles
Knight's Life of Shakspeare, which colours all the scenes of the poet's life in Warwickshire
with the atmosphere of the sixteenth century, and summons to meet us in the streets of Stratford
costumes and characters contemporary with Falstaff, Shallow, and Dogberry so well, that we
do not see the Clods in corduroys, the commercial Gents in paletots, and the Police in trim
blue, whom we really meet.

[THE AVON VIADUCT: ill13.jpg]

SOHO. WATT, BOULTON, MURDOCH.

On leaving Birmingham, the railway almost immediately passes from Warwickshire into Staffordshire,
through two parishes, Handsworth and Aston, which, presenting nothing picturesque in natural
scenery or remarkable in ancient or modern buildings, with one exception, yet cannot be passed
over without notice, because they were residences of three remarkable men, to whom we are largely
indebted for our use of the inventions which have most contributed to the civilisation and
advance of social comfort in the nineteenth century.

Two miles from old Birmingham, now part of the modern town, lies Soho, in the suburb of Handsworth,
which, in 1762, was a bleak and barren heath.

In that year Matthew Boulton, the son of a wealthy Birmingham hardwareman, purchased Soho,
and erected on it a mansion, with pleasure grounds, and a series of workshops, for carrying
on the then staple trades of the town, in shoe buckles, buttons, and other articles included
in the general title of "toys."  In 1774, Boulton entered into partnership with James Watt,
and commenced, in concert with him, the experiments in which Watt had been for some years engaged
for improving Savary's imperfect Steam-Pumping Engine.

The march of death and time have removed all the men who were engaged in assisting James Watt
and Matthew Boulton in their great works.  The numerous mechanical trades in coining, plating,
and other Birmingham manufactures, in addition to the construction of steam engines, which
first turned the waste of Soho into the largest workshop in Europe, have passed into other
hands, and been transplanted.  The manufactory of steam engines, removed to another site, still
exists under the name of the old firm; but within a very recent period the pleasure grounds
in which James Watt often walked, in earnest converse with the partner to whose energetic and
appreciative mind he owed so much, have been invaded by the advances of the neighbouring town,
and sliced and divided into building lots.  Aston Hall and Park must soon suffer the same fate.

[ASTON VIADUCT: ill14.jpg]

Very soon there will be no vestiges of the homes of these great men, but they need no monuments,
no shrines for the reverence of admiring pilgrims.  Every manufactory in the town of Birmingham
is a monument of the genius which first fully expanded within the precincts of Soho.  Thousands
on thousands find bread from inventions there first perfected or suggested.

When Watt explained to Smeaton, the architect of Eddystone Lighthouse and the greatest engineer
of the day, the plan of his steam engine, he doubted whether mechanics could be found capable
of executing the different parts with sufficient precision; and, in fact, in 1769, when Watt
produced, under the patronage of Dr. Roebuck, his third model, with a cylinder of block tin
eighteen inches in diameter, there were only one or two men capable of giving the requisite
truth of workmanship to air-pump cylinders of two inches in diameter.  At the present day,
as before observed in reference to Wolverton, there are thousands of skilled workmen employed
at weekly wages, to whom the most difficult problems of Watt's early experiments are familiar
handiwork.

At Handsworth, too, working for a long life in the Soho manufactories as the servant, confidential
assistant, and friend, lived another remarkable man, William Murdoch, the inventor of illumination
by gas, and the author of the first locomotive steam engine, and of several important contributions
to practical science, to which justice has scarcely been done.

William Murdoch employed coal gas so early as 1792, for the purpose of lighting his house and
offices at Redruth, in Cornwall, when he was superintending the pumping engines erected there
by Messrs. Boulton and Watt; for it was he who erected for them in that district the first
Cornish pumping engine, with separate condenser.  He had at that time in regular use a portable
gas lantern, formed by filling a bladder with gas, and fixing to it a jet, which was attached
to the bottom of a glass lantern, which he used for the purpose of lighting himself home at
night across the moors from the mining engines.

His locomotive engine, made upon the non-condensing principle (since adopted in all engines
for that purpose), was constructed, in consequence of a lameness which confined him to the
sofa, and set to work at Redruth in 1784. It is still in existence in perfect working order,
and was exhibited before a meeting of the Mechanical Engineers at Birmingham, in the year 1850,
when a memoir of Mr. Murdoch was read, which has been kindly forwarded to us by the President,
John M'Connell, Esq., C.E.

It is among the traditions of Redruth, that one night William Murdoch, wishing to try an experiment
with his new invention, lighted the lamp under the boiler, and set it a-going on a narrow,
smooth, hard-rolled gravel walk leading to the church, a mile distant.  The little engine went
off at a great pace, whistling and hissing as it went, and the inventor followed as fast as
he could in chase.  Soon he heard cries of alarm, horror, despair, and came up to the worthy
clergyman of the parish cowering up against the hedge, almost in a fainting fit, under a strong
impression that it was the Evil One in person who just hissed past him in a fire-flaught.

Those of this generation who remember their first encounter with a locomotive in a dark night,
can realize the terror of a country clergyman on encountering so strange an apparition in a
night walk.

It speaks as highly for Messrs. Boulton and Watt, in whose service he passed all the active
years of his life, as for Mr. Murdoch, that on leaving Cornwall, he refused 1000 pounds a-year,
which was offered him by the mining adventurers to remain in the county, in charge of the steam-pumping
engines. Liberal as the offer seems, it would have paid them well, for on his departure the
engines lost twenty-five per cent. of their working power.

Handsworth Church, near Soho, contains a marble statue of James Watt, by Chantrey, a copy of
that erected in Westminster Abbey.

The railway passes Aston Hall, where James Watt and his only surviving son lived until his
death a few years ago.  The park contains some fine trees, and the house is a good specimen
of the domestic architecture of the time of Elizabeth.

[ASTON HALL: ill15.jpg]

It was sold for a trifling sum, with an imperfect title, which time has cured, to a speculating
banker; and, after having been let to the late James Watt on a long lease, is now likely to
exchange mansion and park for a congeries of cottages in rows, forming forty-shilling freeholders.

The passion which the mechanics of Birmingham have for investing in land has rendered land
near that town dearer than in parallel situations near London.

THE BLACK COUNTRY. WALSALL, DUDLEY, WEDNESBURY, DARLASTON.

The first diverging railway after leaving Handsworth, on the road to the north, is what, for
want of a better name, is called the South Staffordshire, which connects Birmingham with Dudley,
Walsall, Lichfield, and Tamworth, thus uniting the most purely agricultural with the most thoroughly
manufacturing districts, and especially with that part of the great coal-field which is locally
known as the "Black Country."  In this Black Country, including West Bromwich, Wednesbury,
Dudley, and Darlaston, Bilston, Wolverhampton, and several minor villages, a perpetual twilight
reigns during the day, and during the night fires on all sides light up the dark landscape
with a fiery glow.  The pleasant green of pastures is almost unknown, the streams, in which
no fishes swim, are black and unwholesome; the natural dead flat is often broken by huge hills
of cinders and spoil from the mines; the few trees are stunted and blasted; no birds are to
be seen, except a few smoky sparrows; and for miles on miles a black waste spreads around,
where furnaces continually smoke, steam-engines thud and hiss, and long chains clank, while
blind gin-horses walk their doleful round.  From time to time you pass a cluster of deserted
roofless cottages of dingiest brick, half-swallowed up in sinking pits or inclining to every
point of the compass, while the timbers point up like the ribs of a half-decayed corpse.  The
majority of the natives of this Tartarian region are in full keeping with the scenery--savages,
without the grace of savages, coarsely clad in filthy garments, with no change on week-days
and Sundays, they converse in a language belarded with fearful and disgusting oaths, which
can scarcely be recognized as the same as that of civilized England.

On working days few men are to be seen, they are in the pits or the ironworks, but women are
met on the high-road clad in men's once white linsey-woolsey coats and felt hats, driving and
cursing strings of donkeys laden with coals or iron rods for the use of the nailers.

On certain rare holidays these people wash their faces, clothe themselves in decent garments,
and, since the opening of the South Staffordshire Railway, take advantage of cheap excursion
trains, go down to Birmingham to amuse themselves and make purchases.  It would be a useful
lesson for any one who is particularly well satisfied with the moral, educational, and religious
state of his countrymen, to make a little journey through this Black Country. He will find
that the amiable enthusiasts who meet every May at Exeter Hall to consider on the best means
of converting certain aboriginal tribes in Africa, India, and the Islands of the Pacific, need
not go so far to find human beings more barbarous and yet much more easily reclaimed.

The people of this district are engaged in coal-mining, in ironworks, in making nails, and
many other articles, or parts of articles, for the Birmingham trade.  Their wages are, for
the most part, good; fuel is cheap; well supplied markets, and means of obtaining the best
clothing are close at hand.  But, within sixty years a vast dense population has been collected
together in districts which were but thinly inhabited as long as the value lay on the surface,
instead of in the bowels of the earth.  The people gathered together and found neither churches,
nor schools, nor laws, nor customs, nor means for cleanliness at first, nor even an effective
police to keep order.  And thus they became one of the most ignorant, brutal, depraved, drunken,
unhealthy populations in the kingdom, unless it be a set of people in the same occupations
in the neighbourhood of Manchester.

We shall never forget, some five-and-twenty years ago, passing near Bilston on a summer's holiday,
and seeing a great red, pied bull foaming, and roaring, and marching round a ring in which
he was chained, while a crowd of men, each with a demoniacal-looking bulldog in his arms, and
a number of ragged women, with their hair about their ears, some of them also carrying bull-dog
pups, yelled about the baited bull.  It gave us an awful fright, and haunted our childish dreams
for years after.

The first change forced upon the governing classes, by feelings of self- protection was an
organized police, and the "Black" people are now more disgusting than dangerous.  The cholera
of 1832, which decimated Bilston and Wednesbury, did something toward calling attention to
the grievous social and sanitary wants of this district.  In that pestilence several clergymen
and medical men died, like heroes, in the discharge of their duties.  Some churches were built,
some schools established; but an immense work remains to be done.  Bull-baiting has been put
down, but no rational amusements have been substituted for that brutal and exciting sport.

In the northern coal fields, near Newcastle-on-Tyne especially, we have noticed that when the
miner ascends from the pit in the evening, his first care is to wash himself from head to foot,
and then to put on a clean suit of white flannel.  As you pass along the one street of a pitman's
village, you will see the father reading a Chambers' Journal or a cheap religious magazine
at the door of his cottage while smoking a pipe, and nursing a child or two on his knee; and
through the open door, a neat four-post bed and an oak or mahogany chest of drawers bear witness
to his frugality.

In Wednesbury, Bilston, and all that district, when work is over you find the men drinking
in their dirty clothes and with grimy faces at the beer-shop of the "Buttey," that is to say,
the contractor or middleman under whom they work, according to the system of the country, and
the women hanging about the doors of their dingy dwellings, gossiping or quarreling,--the old
furies and the young slatterns.

In the face of such savagery, so evidently the result of defective education, two opposite
and extreme parties in the State, the anti-church Mialls and the pro-church Anthony Denisons,
combine to oppose the multiplication of education that teaches decency if it teaches nothing else.

One great step has been made by the Health of Town's Act, which is about to be applied to some
of these coal towns; and railways have rendered the whole district so accessible that no foul
spot can long remain unknown or unnoticed.

* * * * *

WALSALL, eight miles from Birmingham, the first town in our way, which may be reached directly
by following the South Staffordshire, or by an omnibus, travelling half-a-mile from Bescot
Bridge, lies among green fields, out of the bounds of the mining country, although upon the
edge of the Warwickshire and Staffordshire coalfield,--indeed the parliamentary borough includes
part of the rough population just described.  It is very clean, without antiquities or picturesque
beauties, and contains nothing to attract visitors except its manufactures, of which the best
known is cheap saddlery for the American, West Indian, and Australian markets.  They make the
leather and wooden parts, as well as stirrups and bridles; also gunlocks, bits, spurs, spades,
hinges, screws, files, edge tools, and there is one steel-pen manufactory, besides many articles
connected with the Birmingham trade, either finished or unfinished, the number of which is
constantly increasing. Walsall is celebrated for its pig-market, a celebrity which railroads
have not destroyed, as was expected, but rather increased.  Special arrangements for comfortably
disembarking these, the most interesting strangers who visit Walsall, have been made at the
railway station.

The principal church, with a handsome spire, stands upon a hill, and forms a landmark to the
surrounding country.  The ascent to it, by a number of steps, has, according to popular prejudice,
produced an effect upon the legs of the inhabitants more strengthening than elegant, which
has originated the provincial phrase of "Walsall-legged."  But this is, no doubt, a libel on
the understandings of the independent borough.

The houses are chiefly built of brick, but it seems as if some years ago the inhabitants had
been seized with an architectural disease, which has left its marks in the shape of an eruption
of stucco porticoes, and one or two pretensious mansions, externally resembling jails or infirmaries,
internally boasting halls which bear the same proportion to the living rooms as Falstaff's
gallon of sack to his halfpennyworth of bread.  No doubt there are persons whom this style
of house exactly suits, the portico represents their pride, the parlour their economy.  What
was intended for the Walsall public library consists of a thin closet behind a gigantic Ionic
portico, now tottering to its fall; and in like manner a perfectly dungeon-like effect has
been given to the principal hotel by another portico, which affords a much better idea of the
charges than of the accommodation to be found within.

As a general rule in travelling, we pass by all hotels with porticoes to take refuge in more
modest Green Dragons or Blue Boars.

Walsall has a municipal corporation of six aldermen and eighteen councillors. The Reform Bill,
to increase the troubles of this innocent borough, placed it in schedule B, and gave it the
privilege of making one M.P.

Fierce contests at every general election have been the result, in which some blood, much money,
and more beer, have been expended.  But neither party has thought it worth while to make the
education of the savages of the Black Country a piece of politics, and, if any one did, he
would only be torn to pieces between Church and Dissenters.

* * * * *

DUDLEY in Worcestershire, about six miles from Walsall by the South Staffordshire Railway,
has a castle and more than one legend for the antiquarian, a cave, and limestone pits full
of fossils for the geologist, and especial interest for the historical economist, being the
centre of the district where the first successful attempts were made to smelt iron by coal,--a
process which has contributed, almost as much as our success in textile manufactures, to give
this small island a wealth and power which a merely agricultural non-exporting community could
never have attained.

Iron was manufactured with charcoal in England from the time of the Romans till the middle
of the eighteenth century, when the timber of many counties had been entirely exhausted by
the process.  In 1558, in the reign of Elizabeth, it was enacted that "no timber of the breadth
of one foot square at the stub, and growing within fourteen miles of the sea, or any part of
the river Thames or Severn, or any other river, creek, or stream, by the which carriage is
commonly used by boat or other vessel, to any part of the sea, shall be converted to coal,
or fuel for making iron;" {125a} and, in 1581, a further Act was passed to prevent the destruction
of timber.  "For remedy whereof it was enacted that no new iron works should be erected within
twenty-two miles of London nor within fourteen miles of the river Thames, nor in the several
parts of Sussex near the sea therein named.  This Act not to extend to the woods of Christopher
Durrell, in the parish of Newdigate, within the weald of Surrey, which woods have been coppiced
by him for the use of his iron works in those parts."

At the same period, we find from a letter in the Stradling Correspondence, {125b} that, while
iron was made in Surrey, Sussex, and Kent, where not a pound is now manufactured, in Glamorganshire,
at present a great seat of iron manufacture, iron was so scarce that an anvil was leased out
at the rent of 3s. 4d. a year, {126} a rent at which, taking the then value of money, a very
tolerable anvil could now be purchased.

When the woods of the kingdom began to be exhausted, attention was turned to pit coal, which
had long been in use for fuel in the counties where it was plentifully found.  A curious account
of the first successful experiments is to be found, told in very quaint language, in the Metallum
Martis of Dudley Dudley, son of Lord Edward Dudley (an ancestor of the late Earl Dudley and
Ward, and of the present Lord Ward, who now enjoys the very estates referred to, and derives
a princely income from the mineral treasures, the true value of which was discovered by his
unfortunate ancestor), published in the reign of Charles II.

This Mr. Dudley was an early victim of the patent laws, which, to this day, have proved to
be for the benefit of lawyers and officials, and the tantalization of true inventors and discoverers.
The following extracts contain his story, and enable us to compare the present with the then
state of iron manufacture:--

"Having former knowledge and delight in ironworks of my father's when I was but a youth, afterwards,
at twenty years old, was I fetched from Oxford, then of Baliol College, anno 1619, to look
after and manage three ironworks of my father's, one furnace and two forges in the chace of
Pensnel, in Worcestershire; but wood and charcoal growing very scanty, and pit-coals in great
quantities abounding near the furnace, did induce me to alter my furnace and to attempt by
my new invention, the making of iron with pit-coal, and found at my trial or blast, facere
est addere inventioni.  After I had proved by a second blast and trial, the feasibility of
making iron with pit- coal and sea-coal, I found by my new invention the quality good and profitable,
but the quantity did not exceed above three tons a week."

After this, the inventor obtained a patent from King James I., for thirty-one years in the
nineteenth year of his reign.  "But the year following the grant there was so great a flood
of rain,--to this day called the great May-day flood,--that it ruined the author's ironworks
and inventions, and at a market town called Sturbridge, in comitatu Wigorniae, one resolute
man was carried from the bridge in the day time."  "As soon as the author had repaired his
works, he was commanded to send all sorts of bar iron up to the Tower of London, fit for making
of muskets and carbines, {127} and the iron being so tried by artists and smiths, that the
ironmasters and ironmongers who had complained that the author's iron was not merchantable,
were silenced until the twenty-first of King James."  "At the then parliament all monopolies
were made null, and divers of the ironmeasters endeavoured to bring the invention of making
iron with pit-coal within the compass of a monopoly; but the Lord Dudley and the author did
prevail, yet the patent was limited to continue but fourteen years."

This exception in the Statute of Monopolies, which incontestably proves the claim of the Dudley
family to the honour of having invented the art of smelting iron with coal, runs in the following
terms:--"Provided also that this Act shall not extend to, or be prejudicial to, a graunt or
priviledge for the melting of iron ewer, and of maling the same into sea coals or pit coals,
by His Majesties letters Patent under the Great Seale of England, made or graunted to Edward
Lord Dudley."

After the passing of the Act, it seems that Dudley Dudley made "great store of iron and sold
it at 12 pounds a ton, and also cast-iron wares, as brewing cisterns, pots, mortars;" but,
being ousted of his works, he again set up a furnace at "Himley, in the county of Stafford."
Himley Hall is the present residence of Lord Ward, the representative of the Dudley family.
From that time forward, the life of the unfortunate inventor was but one series of misfortunes.
Under Charles I. he got into law-suits, was the victim of riots set on by the charcoal ironmasters,
and was eventually lodged in prison in the Compter.  Then came the Great Rebellion, during
which he had the disadvantage of being a Royalist as well as an inventor, and of having "Cromwell,
with Major Wildman and many of his officers, as opponents in rival experiments tried in the
Forest of Dean, where they employed an ingenious glassmaster, Edward Dagney, an Italian then
living in Bristow," but they failed.  And so he was utterly ruined.  On the accession of Charles
II., he petitioned, and eventually sent in the statement from which the preceding extracts
have been made, but apparently without any success.  The king was too busy making dukes and
melting the louis d'ors of his French pension, to think of anything so common as iron or so
tiresome as gratitude.

The iron manufacture, for want of the art of smelting by coal, and of a supply of wood, which
the march of agriculture daily diminished, dwindled away, until, in the middle of the eighteenth
century, it was revived at Colebrook Dale by the Darbys.  In the intermediate period, we were
dependent on Russia, Spain, and Sweden for the chief part of the iron used in manufactures.

