I am living at present in one of those villages in which the retreating Hun has left no stone
unturned. With characteristic thoroughness he fired it first, then blew it up, and has been
shelling it ever since. What with one thing and another, it is in an advanced state of dilapidation;
in fact, if it were not that one has the map's word for it, and a notice perched on a heap
of brick-dust saying that the Town Major may be found within, the casual wayfarer might imagine
himself in the Sahara, Kalahari, or the south end of Kingsway.

Some of these French towns are very difficult to recognise as such; only the trained detective
can do it. A certain Irish Regiment was presented with the job of capturing one. The scheme
was roughly this. They were to climb the parapet at 5.25 A.M. and rush a quarry some one hundred
yards distant. After half-an-hour's breather they were to go on to some machine-gun emplacements,
dispose of these, wait a further twenty minutes, and then take the town. Distance barely one
thousand yards in all. Promptly at zero the whole field spilled over the bags, as the field
spills over the big double at Punchestown, paused at the quarry only long enough to change
feet on the top, and charged yelling at the machine guns. Then being still full of fun and
joie de vivre, and having no officers left to hamper their fine flowing style, they ducked
through their own barrage and raced all out for the final objective. Twenty minutes later,
two miles further on, one perspiring private turned to his panting chum, "For the love of God,
Mike, aren't we getting in the near of this damn town yet?"

I have a vast respect for HINDENBURG (a man who can drink the mixtures he does, and still sit
up and smile sunnily into the jaws of a camera ten times a day, is worthy of anybody's veneration)
but if he thought that by blowing these poor little French villages into small smithereens
he would deprive the B.E.F. of headcover and cause it to catch cold and trot home to mother,
he will have to sit up late and do some more thinking. For Atkins of to-day is a knowing bird;
he can make a little go the whole distance and conjure plenty out of nothingness. As for cover,
two bricks and his shrapnel hat make a very passable pavilion. Goodness knows it would puzzle
a guinea-pig to render itself inconspicuous in our village, yet I have watched battalion after
battalion march into it and be halted and dismissed. Half an hour later there is not a soul
to be seen. They have all gone to ground. My groom and countryman went in search of wherewithal
to build a shelter for the horses. He saw a respectable plank sticking out of a heap of débris,
laid hold on it and pulled. Then--to quote him verbatim--"there came a great roarin' from in
undernath of it, Sor, an' a black divil of an infantryman shoved his head up through the bricks
an' drew down sivin curses on me for pullin' the roof off his house. Then he's afther throwin'
a bomb at me, Sor, so I came away. Ye wouldn't be knowin' where to put your fut down in this
place, Sor, for the dhread of treadin' in the belly of an officer an' him aslape."

Some people have the bungalow mania and build them bijoux maisonettes out of biscuit tins,
sacking and what-not, but the majority go to ground. I am one of the majority; I go to ground
like a badger, for experience has taught me that a dug-out--cramped, damp, dark though it maybe--cannot
be stolen from you while you sleep; that is to say, thieves cannot come along in the middle
of the night, dig it up bodily by the roots and cart it away in a G.S. waggon without you,
the occupant, being aware that some irregularity is occurring to the home. On the other hand,
in this country, where the warrior, when he falls on sleep suffers a sort of temporary death,
bungalows can be easily purloined from round about him without his knowledge; and what is more,
frequently are.

For instance, a certain bungalow in our village was stolen as frequently as three times in
one night. This was the way of it. One Todd, a foot-slogging Lieutenant, foot-slogged into
our midst one day, borrowed a hole from a local rabbit, and took up his residence therein.
Now this mud-pushing Todd had a cousin in the same division, one of those highly trained specialists
who trickles about the country shedding coils of barbed wire and calling them "dumps"--a sapper,
in short. One afternoon the sapping Todd, finding some old sheets of corrugated iron that he
had neglected to dump, sent them over to his gravel-grinding cousin with his love and the request
of a loan of a dozen of soda. The earth-pounding Todd came out of his hole, gazed on the corrugated
iron and saw visions, dreamed dreams. He handed the hole back to the rabbit and set to work
to evolve a bungalow. By evening it was complete. He crawled within and went to sleep, slept
like a drugged dormouse. At 10 P.M. a squadron of the Shetland Ponies (for the purpose of deceiving
the enemy all names in this article are entirely fictitious) made our village. It was drizzling
at the time, and the Field Officer in charge was getting most of it in the neck. He howled
for his batman, and told the varlet that if there wasn't a drizzle-proof bivouac ready to enfold
him by the time he had put the ponies to bye-byes there would be no leave for ten years. The
batman scratched his head, then slid softly away into the night. By the time the ponies were
tilting the last drops out of their nosebags the faithful servant had scratched together a
few sheets of corrugated, and piled them into a rough shelter. The Major wriggled beneath it
and was presently putting up a barrage of snores terrible to hear. At midnight a battalion
of the Loamshire Light Infantry trudged into the village. It was raining in solid chunks, and
the Colonel Commanding looked like Victoria Falls and felt like a submarine. He gave expression
to his sentiments in a series of spluttering bellows. His batman trembled and faded into the
darkness à pas de loup. By the time the old gentleman had halted his command and cursed them
"good night" his resourceful retainer had found a sheet or two of corrugated iron somewhere
and assembled them into some sort of bivouac for the reception of his lord. His lord fell inside,
kicked off his boots and slept instantly, slept like a wintering bear.

At 2 A.M. three Canadian privates blundered against our village and tripped over it. They had
lost their way, were mud from hoofs to horns, dead beat, soaked to the skin, chilled to the
bone, fed up to the back teeth. They were not going any further, neither were they going to
be deluged to death if there was any cover to be had anywhere. They nosed about, and soon discovered
a few sheets of corrugated iron, bore them privily hence and weathered the night out under
some logs further down the valley. My batman trod me underfoot at seven next morning, "Goin'
to be blinkin' murder done in this camp presently, Sir," he announced cheerfully. "Three officers
went to sleep in bivvies larst night, but somebody's souvenired 'em since an' they're all lyin'
hout in the hopen now, Sir. Their blokes daresent wake 'em an' break the noos. All very 'asty-tempered
gents, so I'm told. The Colonel is pertickler mustard. There'll be some fresh faces on the
Roll of Honour when 'e comes to."

