Presently Felix looked up at me with the faintest little smile. "I came pretty near asking
you to write me down a coward, Jack," he said; "but I'm all right again. Now for your part
of this affair: If Phil will come back with me, as I hope, you'll have to make your way home
alone, without letting him know of your being there. Try and manage it. If he gets ugly, and
will not leave that crowd, why, then we--you and I--'ll have to travel back as we went. You
must judge for yourself, Rosebud, whether to go, or to stay for me; I'll have enough to do,
you know, to manage Phil. Apart from that, have as little to do in the matter as possible;
ask no questions, speak to no one, and see and hear no more than you can help. All right?"

"Yes," I answered quickly, "and I only wish I could do more for you, Fee."

Felix put his hand on my shoulder for a rest, as he usually did when we walked together. "You've
been a real comfort to me, Jack, since Nannie went away," he said. I tell you that meant lots
from him, and I knew it; I just put up my hand and squeezed Fee's fingers as they rested on
my coat; then we started off.

On Fee's account we walked very slowly; but after a while we came to a house with a very low
stoop,--just a step or two from the ground. There were handsome glass doors to the vestibule,
and the rather small hall was brilliantly lighted up. I fancied that the man who opened the
door looked at me as if he thought I had no business there; but Felix marched right by him
and stepped into the elevator, and of course I followed.

"Mr. Whitcombe," said Fee; and then I knew that we were in the apartment house where Chad has
his "bachelor quarters."

"Turn to your left," said the elevator man, as he let us out. We did so, and just as we got
opposite the door with the big silver knob and old bronze knocker that Chad had told us he
brought from Europe, it opened, and some one came out. Well, truly, he didn't look any older
than fifteen,--two years older than I am, mind you,--but if he didn't have on a long-tailed
evening coat, an awfully high stand-up collar, and a tall silk hat! You can't think what a
queer figure he was,--like a caricature.

Before he could shut the door, Felix lifted his hat, and then put out his hand quickly. "Allow
me," he said politely; and the next moment we were in Chad's hall, with his front door closed
behind us.

At the other end of this hall was a room very brightly lighted; the portière was pushed almost
entirely aside, and we could see some young fellows seated round a table. Nearly all had cigars
or cigarettes in their mouths,--Phil, too; the room was just thick with smoke, and they were
playing cards.

"Sit where they can't see you," Fee whispered to me; "and if you find Phil will go home with
me, just slide out without letting him know of your being here. Oh, Jack, if I can only succeed!"
He gave my hand a little squeeze--though it was a warm evening, his fingers were cold--and
then walked up the hall and stood in the doorway of Chad's room.

"Hullo! you! Oh--aw--come in--aw--glad to see you! Take a chair," Chad said, in a tone of voice
that told he was taken all aback; while Phil was so startled that he dropped his cigarette
and called out roughly, "What the mischief are you doing here?"

Of course they all looked at Felix; but he answered carelessly, "Oh, I thought I'd accept a
long-standing invitation,"--with a little bow toward Chad,--"and drop in for a while."

"Oh, certainly, certainly--aw--glad to see you!" exclaimed Chad.

"Who's with you?" demanded Phil; but Fee didn't answer him: he just went forward and took the
place that one of the fellows made between himself and Phil. And then Chad began introducing
Felix to the others.

From where I sat on the hat-rack settle,--it was the most shielded place in the hall, and near
the door,--I had a full view of the people sitting on one side of the table, and particularly
of Felix and Phil, who were almost directly under the glare of the light. Fee's face was as
white as marble, except a red spot on each cheek, and there was a delicate look about his eyes
and temples, and round his mouth, that I hadn't noticed before. Somehow his fine, regular features
and splendid, broad white forehead made me think of the head of the Young Augustus that the
Unsworths have.

But Phil certainly didn't look like any marble statue; his face was very red and cross, and
he was scowling until his eyebrows made a thick black line above his eyes. He was disagreeable,
too,--rough and quarrelsome, something like that night when he came home so late, and hurt
my feelings. When, in reply to an invitation from Chad, Felix said he would join the game,
Phil sung out in a kind of ordering tone, "What's the sense of spoiling the fun for everybody?
You know nothing about cards; why don't you look on?"

"Because I prefer playing," answered Fee, smiling; "it's the quickest and surest way of learning,
I believe,"--with a glance round the company. "What are the stakes?"

He drew a handful of money from his pocket, and laid it before him on the table.

"Don't make an ass of yourself, Felix!" Phil exclaimed angrily, laying a hand right over the
little pile of silver. "We're not fooling here; we're playing in dead earnest, and you will
lose every cent of your money."

Some of the fellows snickered, and one called out sharply, "Look out what you're saying, Rose."

I saw the red spots on Fee's cheeks grow brighter. "I am going to play," he said quietly, but
looking Phil steadily in the eyes; "so please don't interfere."

"Evidently you've never learned that 'consistency is a jewel'!" Phil retorted with a sneer.
I suppose he was thinking of what Fee had said that evening on the stoop.

But Felix only answered good-naturedly, "Oh, yes, I have; that used to be one of our copy-book
axioms," and then they all began to play.

Well, Phil's face was a study,--it grew blacker and blacker as the game went on, and Fee kept
losing; and he got very disagreeable,--trying to chaff Felix, almost as if he wanted to make
him mad. But Fee just turned it off as pleasantly as he could. Those fellows made it ever so
much harder, though; they got off the silliest speeches, and then roared with laughter over
them, as if they were jokes. And, in a sly kind of way, they egged Phil on to quarrel with
Fee,--laughing at all his speeches, and pretending that they thought Phil was afraid of Felix.
And Chad joined in, I could hear his affected laugh and drawl above all the others; I felt
how that must cut Fee!

There were some decanters and glasses on a side table, and every now and then Chad urged his
friends to drink, and he would get up and wait on them. Felix refused every time, and Phil
did too at first, until those common fellows began to twit him about it,--as much as saying
that he was afraid to take anything 'cause Fee would "go home and tell on him." What did Phil
do then--the silly fellow! 'twas just what they wanted--but snatch up a glass and swallow down
a lot of that vile stuff! Well, I was so mad with Phil! I'd have liked to go right in and punch
him. Felix never said a word ('twouldn't have done the least good,--Phil can be like a mule
sometimes); he just sat there with his lips pressed tight together, looking down at the cards
he held in his hands.

After that Phil's face got awfully red, and how his tongue did run! Real ugly things he said,
too, and perfectly regardless who he said them to. And those fellows got very boisterous, and
began again trying to tease our boys. I was so afraid there'd be a row; and there surely would
have been, if Felix hadn't just worked as he did to prevent it. I tell you now, it was awfully
hard to sit out there in that hall and hear those fellows carrying on against my brothers,--you
see I was so near I couldn't help it, I just had to hear everything,--and not be able to take
their part.

Fee kept getting whiter and whiter, the spots on his cheeks redder and redder; and by and by
such a tired look came in his face that I got real worked up. I felt as if I must go in and
just pitch right into those fellows. Almost before I knew it, I'd got up and gone a step or
two in the hall, when suddenly Phil dashed his cards down on the table, and got on his feet.
"I'm going home!" he declared. "Are you coming?" turning to Felix.

"You sha'n't go!" "Oh, don't go!" "You've got to finish the game," several called out. But
Phil just repeated doggedly, "I'm going home! Are you coming or not, Felix?"

This was just what Fee wanted,--I knew how glad and thankful he must feel. But all he said
was, "Yes, I'll go with you, if our host will excuse us," rising as he spoke and nodding his
head toward Chad.

Those unmannerly things burst out laughing, as if this were a great joke; and with a smothered
exclamation, Phil started for the door, knocking over a chair as he went.

Well, if you had seen me scoot down that hall and out of the door! I simply flew, and barely
got round the corner in the shadow, when Phil and Felix came along. Phil looked like a thundercloud,
and instead of leaning on his arm, Fee just had hold of a piece of Phil's sleeve. They marched
along in dead silence, and got into the elevator.

I hung around a little, until I was sure they were out of the way, then I went down; the elevator
man looked harder than ever at me,--I suppose he wondered why I hadn't gone with Fee,--but
I pretended I didn't notice.

I'd never been out very late alone before, and at first it seemed queer; but I hurried, so
that I soon forgot all about that. You see I wanted to get home before the boys did, and yet
I had to look out that I didn't run across them.

I hadn't thought of the time at Chad's; but we must have been there a good while, for when
I got to the house the drawing-room windows were closed, and so was the front door. I don't
know what I'd have done if cook hadn't come to close the basement door just as I got to our
stoop, and I slipped in that way. "Master Jack!" she cried out, holding up her hands in horror;
"a little b'y like you out late's this! What'd your pa say to such doin's, an' Miss Marston?
An' there's Miss Nora gone to bed, thinkin' it's safe an' aslape ye are."

"Oh, hush, cook! it's all right. Don't say anything; please don't," I said softly; then I let
her go upstairs ahead of me.

The drawing-room was all dark, and the light in the hall was turned down low. The house was
very quiet,--everybody had gone to bed; and after thinking it over, I made up my mind I'd wait
downstairs and let the boys in before they could ring,--I forgot that Phil had taken possession
of papa's latch-key, and was using it. I sat on the steps listening, and what d'you think?
I must have fallen asleep, for the first thing I knew there were Phil and Felix in the hall,
and Phil was closing the front door. "Oh, I see,--as usual, our gentle Rosebud's to the front,"
exclaimed Phil, still keeping his hand on the knob of the door; "all right, then he can help
you upstairs," and he turned as if to go out.

"What!" Fee cried out in a sharp, startled voice, "you are never going back to that crowd!"

"That's just what I am going to do," answered Phil; his voice sounded thick and gruff. "Shall
I give your love?"

Felix caught him by the arm. "Don't go, Phil," he pleaded; "don't go back to-night, please
don't. We've had enough of them for one evening. Come, let's go upstairs. Won't you? I have
a good reason for what I'm asking, and I'll explain to-morrow."

Phil came a step or two forward, shaking Fee's hand off. "Look here!" he said sharply, "this
thing might's well be settled right here, and once for all. I'm a man, not a child, I'll have
you to understand, and I'm not going to be controlled by you. Just remember that, and don't
try any more of your little games on me, as you have to-night, for I will not stand 'em! The
idea of your coming up there among those fellows and making such an ass of yourself--"

"The asinine part of this evening's performance belongs to you and your friends, not to me,"
broke in Felix, hotly,--Phil's tone was so insolent. "And there are a few things that you might
as well understand, too," he went on more calmly. "If you continue to go to Chad's, I shall
go, too; if you make those fellows your boon companions, they shall be mine as well; if you
continue to drink and gamble, as you've been doing lately, and to-night, I will drink and gamble,
too. I mean every word I am saying, Phil. It may go against the grain at first to associate
with such cads as Chad and his crowd; but perhaps that'll wear away in time, and I may come
to enjoy what I now abhor. As these low pleasures have fascinated you, so they may fascinate me."

"If you ever put your foot in Chad Whitcombe's house again, I'll make him turn you out," cried
Phil, in a rage, shaking his finger at Felix. "Why, you donkey! less than three months of that
sort of life'd use you up completely. I'll fix you, if you ever undertake to try it; I'll go
straight to the pater,--I swear I will."

"No need to do that, old fellow," Fee said, in such a loving voice! "Just drop that set you've
got into, and be your own upright, honourable self again, and you shall never hear another
word of such talk out of me. But," he added earnestly, "I cannot, I will not stand seeing you,
my brother, my chum, our mother's son"--Fee's voice shook--"going all wrong, without lifting
a finger to save you. Why, Phil, I'd give my very life, if need be, to keep you from becoming
a drunkard and a gambler. Don't go back to those fellows to-night, dear old boy; for--for her
sake, don't go!" Felix was pleading with his whole heart in his voice, looking eagerly, entreatingly
up at Phil, and holding out his hands to him.

My throat was just filling up as Fee spoke,--I could almost have cried; and I'm sure Phil was
touched, too, but he tried not to let us see it. He sort of scuffled his feet on the marble
tiling of the hall, and cleared his throat in the most indifferent way, looking up at the gas
fixture. "Perhaps I will drop them by and by," he said carelessly, "but I can't just yet,--in
fact, I don't want to just yet; I have a reason. And that reminds me--I must go back to-night.
Now don't get silly over me, Felix; there's no danger whatever of my becoming a drunkard or
a gambler,--nice opinion of me you must have!--and I'm quite equal to taking care of myself.
As I've told you several times before, I'm a man now, not a child, and I will not have you
or anybody running round after me. Just remember that!" As he spoke, he turned deliberately
to go out.

Then Fee did a foolish thing; he ought to have known Phil better, but he was so awfully disappointed
that I guess he forgot. In about one second--I don't know how he ever got there so quickly--he
had limped to the door, and planted himself with his back against it. His face was just as
white! and his lips were set tight together, and he held his head up in the air, looking Phil
square in the eye.

A horrid nervous feeling came over me,--I just felt there was going to be trouble. I stood
up on the steps quickly, and called out, "Oh, boys, don't quarrel! Oh, please, please don't
quarrel!" But Phil was talking, and I don't believe they even heard me.

"Get away from that door,--I'm going out!" Phil commanded.

Not a word answered Fee; he just stood there, his eyes shining steadily up at Phil through
his glasses.

"Do you hear me?" Phil said savagely. "Get--out--of--the--way. I don't want to hurt you, but
I am determined to go out. Come,--move!"

He stepped nearer Felix, with a peremptory wave of his hand, and glowered at him. But Fee didn't
flinch. "No," he said quietly, but in just as positive a tone as Phil's, "I will not move."
Then, suddenly, a sweet, quick smile flashed over his face, and he threw his hands out on Phil's
shoulders as he stood before him, saying, in that winning way of his, "I'm not a bit afraid
of your ever hurting me, old Lion-heart."

I heard every word distinctly, but Phil didn't; in his rage he only caught the first part of
what Fee said, and with a sharp, angry exclamation he shoved Felix violently aside, and, hastily
opening the door, stepped into the vestibule.

Fee was so completely taken by surprise--poor old Fee!--that he lost his balance, swung to
one side with the force of Phil's elbow, striking his back against the sharp edge of the hall
chair, and fell to the floor.

I can't tell you the awful feeling that came over me when I saw Fee lying there; I got wild!
I dashed down those steps and into the vestibule before Phil had had time to even turn the
handle of the outer door, and, locking my hands tight round his arm, I tried to drag him back
into the hall. "Come back," I cried out; "come back--oh, come back!"

"Hullo! what's happened to you,--crazy?" demanded Phil, giving his arm a shake; but I hung
on with all my weight. And then I said something about Felix; I don't remember now what it
was,--I hardly knew what I was saying,--but, with a sharp cry, Phil threw me from him and rushed
back into the hall.

When I got to him, Phil was kneeling by Felix, with his hand on his shoulder, gently shaking
him. "Fee, Fee!" he exclaimed breathlessly, "what's the matter? Are you hurt? Are you, Fee?
Oh, tell me!" But Fee didn't answer; he just lay there, his face half resting on the arm he
had thrown out in falling; his glasses had tumbled off, and his eyes were closed.

In an instant Phil had rolled him over on his back on the hall rug, and I slipped my arm under
his head. Fee looked dreadfully,--white as death, with big black shadows under his eyes; and
such a sad, pitiful expression about his mouth that I burst out crying.

"Oh, hush, hush!" Phil cried eagerly; "he's coming to himself. Oh, thank God! Stop your crying,
Jack,--you'll frighten him."

But he was mistaken; Fee wasn't coming to,--he lay there white and perfectly still. Oh, how
we worked over him! We took off his necktie and collar, we poured water on his forehead, and
fanned him, and rubbed his hands and feet with hands that were as cold as his own, and trembling.
And Phil kept saying, "Oh, Jack, he'll soon be better,--don't you think so? don't you, Jack?
Oh, surely, such a little fall couldn't be serious! he couldn't have struck himself on that
chair,--see, it's entirely out of his way," with such a piteous pleading in his eyes and voice
that I hadn't the heart to contradict him.

Nothing that we did had any effect; Fee still lay unconscious, and there was a pinched look
about his features, a limp heaviness about his body, that struck terror to our hearts. "Oh,
isn't this awful!" I sobbed. Then all at once I thought of that day I found Felix lying on
the floor,--could this be an attack like that, only worse? His words, "What'll the next one
be!" flashed into my mind, and I burst out eagerly, "Oh, Phil, call somebody--go for the doctor--quick,
quick, oh, do be quick! The doctor will know what to do--he can help him--call nurse--oh, call
somebody!"

But Phil suddenly dropped Felix's hand that he'd been rubbing, and bending down laid his ear
on Fee's chest over his heart. I shall never forget the awful horror that was in his white
face when he lifted it and looked at me across Fee's body. "Jack," he said in a slow, shrill
whisper, that just went through my ears like a knife, "Jack, it's no use; Fee is--"

But I screamed out before he could say that dreadful word,--a loud scream that rang through
the house and woke the people up.

In a confused sort of way--as if I had dreamed it--I remember that Nora came flying down the
stairs in her dressing-gown and bare feet, and nurse hurrying behind her, both crying out in
a frightened way,--something like, "Oh, lawkes! what have them boys been doin'?" and, "Oh,
boys, boys! what is the matter?"

But Phil's answer stands out clear,--I can hear it every time I let myself think of that awful
night. He had pushed me aside, and was sitting on the floor with Fee's body gathered in his
arms, Fee's face lying against his shoulder. He looked up at Nora; his dry, white lips could
hardly utter the words. "Fee is dead," he said; "I have killed Felix!"

XX.

A SOLEMN PROMISE.

TOLD BY JACK.

For a little while there was a dreadful commotion down there in the hall. Hannah and cook had
come, too, by this time, and everybody was crying, and rushing about, and all talking at once,--telling
everybody else what to do. Poor Nonie was awfully frightened; at first she couldn't do a thing
but cry, and I was just as bad,--I'd got to that pitch that I didn't care who saw my tears.

But nurse kept her head splendidly; generally she gets all worked up over the least little
sickness, but this time she kept cool, and told us what to do.

"Don't talk so foolish, Master Phil!" she exclaimed sharply, when Phil said that awful thing
about Fee. "Ain't you ashamed of yourself,--frightening your sister that way! He ain't no more
dead 'n you are."

Well, if you'd seen the look of hope that flashed into Phil's face! "Oh, nurse!" he gasped,
"do you honestly think so? But he isn't breathing,--I can't feel his heart beat."

"That's 'cause he's in a swoond," nurse answered briskly. "Here, lay him down flat. Now rub
his feet--hard; Hannah, slap his palms,--that'll start up a cirkilation. Here, Miss Nora, fan
your brother. Cook, fill them hot-water bottles; if the water in the biler ain't hot 'nough,
start your fire immejiate. Master Jack, you run for the doctor; an' if he can't come," she
added, dropping her voice so that only I heard her, "get another. Don't you come back here
without somebody. An' be quick's you can."

That told me that she wasn't as sure about Fee as she pretended to be, and the hope that had
come up in my heart died right out. My eyes got so blinded with tears that I just had to grope
for my hat; but as I was opening the outer door, I heard something that brought me in again
in double quick time.

It was a cry from Phil,--a shout of joy: "He is breathing! Oh, he's breathing! His eyes are
opening!"

Sure enough, they were. Slowly the heavy lids raised, and Fee's near-sighted eyes looked blankly
up at Phil.

"Don't you know me, old fellow?" Phil asked with a break in his voice, bending eagerly over Felix.

A sweet little smile flickered over Fee's lips. "Phil," he said faintly; and then, with what
we could all see was a great effort, he raised his hand slowly and let it fall heavily on Phil's
hand.

Poor Phil! that broke him down completely. Catching Fee's face between his two hands, he kissed
him warmly two or three times, and then, dropping his head down on Fee's shoulder, burst into
a storm of sobs.

"Oh, come, come! this'll never do!" cried nurse, bustling forward. "Come, Master Phil, this
ain't any time for sich behaviour,"--mind you, she was wiping the corners of her own eyes!
"Now we must get him up to his own room soon's possible; then we can make him comfort'ble.
Can you carry him up? Me and Hannah can help."

"I can do it alone," Phil said quickly, beginning to gather Fee into his arms. But I tell you
it was hard work getting him up, he was such a dead weight!

Fee knew Phil was making a desperate effort to lift him, and he tried, poor fellow, to help
all he could. When at last Phil stood erect, with him in his arms, nurse raised Fee's hands
and joined them back of Phil's neck. "Now clasp your hands tight, Master Felix," she said,
"and that'll take some of your weight off your brother."

Fee's hands were actually resting one on the other, and I saw his fingers move feebly, trying
to take hold of one another. Then he said in a slow, frightened whisper, "I--can't--make--them--hold!"
and his arms slipped down, one of them swinging helplessly by his side, until nurse laid it
in his lap.

"Never mind, don't worry about that, Fee; I can get you up," Phil said cheerfully. "Why, don't
you remember I took you almost up to your room the other night?"

Nora and I looked at each other. I know we were both thinking of the same thing,--that happy
evening when we heard of aunt Lindsay's plan for Fee, and when Phil had picked Felix up and
run so gaily up the stairs with him, singing. Was it possible that was only three or four evenings
ago! It seemed years.

"Run for the doctor, Master Jack--don't loiter," nurse said, as she fell in with the procession
that was moving so slowly up the stairs; Phil was going one step at a time, and sometimes sliding
himself along against the banister to rest the weight he was carrying.

I rushed out and up to Dr. Archard's as fast as I could go. The streets through which I went
were very lonely,--I scarcely met a creature,--but I didn't mind; in fact, the stillness, and
the stars shining so clear and bright in the quiet sky, seemed to do me good. I knew Who was
up there above those shining stars; I thought of the poor lame man that He had healed long
ago, and as I raced along, I just prayed that He would help our Fee.

Dr. Archard was away, out of town, the sleepy boy who answered the bell told me; but Dr. Gordon,
his assistant, was in,--would he do?

I didn't know him at all,--he'd come since papa's illness; but of course I said yes, and in
a few minutes the doctor was ready and we started.

He had a nice face,--he was years younger than Dr. Archard,--and as we hurried toward home
and began talking of Felix, I suddenly made up my mind that I would tell him about the attack
Fee had had when papa was so ill. That promise of mine not to speak of it had always worried
me, and now, all at once, a feeling came over me that I just ought to tell Dr. Gordon everything
about it,--and I did.

He asked a lot of questions, and when I finished he said gravely, "You have done very right
in telling me of this; the knowledge of this former attack and his symptoms will help me in
treating your brother's case."

"Is it the same trouble?" I asked eagerly.

"Certain symptoms which you have described point that way," he answered; "but of course I can
say nothing until I have seen and examined him."

"Could such an accident"--I'd told him that Fee had struck his back against a chair and then
fallen--"do anybody--harm?" My heart was thumping as I put the question.

"Under some circumstances, serious harm," the doctor said. And just then--before I could say
anything more--we came to our stoop, and there was Hannah holding the door open for us to go in.

       *       *       *       *       *

The doctor turned every one out of Fee's room but Phil and nurse; and he was in there an awful
long time. And while Nonie and I sat on the upper stairs waiting for news, what did I do but
fall asleep! and I didn't wake up until the next morning, when I found myself in my own bed.
It seems that Phil had undressed and put me to bed, though I didn't remember a thing about
it. I felt dreadfully ashamed to have gone to sleep without hearing how Fee was, but you see
I was so dead tired, that I suppose I really couldn't keep awake.

Did you ever wake up in the morning with a strange sort of feeling as if there was a weight
on your heart, and then remember that something dreadful had happened the night before? Well,
then you know just how I felt the morning after Fee got hurt. For a moment or two I tried to
make myself believe it was all a bad dream; but there sat Phil on the edge of our bed, and
the sight of his wretched white face brought back the whole thing only too plainly.

"Oh! how is Fee?" I exclaimed, sitting up in bed. "What does the doctor say about him?"

Phil's elbow was resting on his knee, his chin in his palm. "The doctor says," he answered,
with, oh! such a look of misery in his tired eyes, "that Felix is not in danger of death, but
it looks now as if he might not be able to walk again!"

"Oh, Phil, Phil!" I cried out; then I sat and stared at him, and wondered if I were really
awake, or if this were some dreadful dream.

"His back was weak from the start," went on Phil, drearily, "and probably would have been to
the end of his life; but at least he would have been able to get around--to go to college--to
enter a profession. Now all that is over and done with. Isn't it awful!"

"Oh, but that can't be true," I broke in eagerly. "Why, Phil, Fee was in a dreadful way that
last attack, I told the doctor about it,"--Phil nodded; "he couldn't stand on his feet at all,--and
yet he got better. Oh, he may now; he may, Phil, only with a longer time! See?"

"I thought of that when Gordon told me what you had told him, and I begged for some hope of
that sort,--begged as I wouldn't now for my own life, Jack." Phil's voice got so unsteady that
he had to stop for a minute. "After a good deal of talking and pleading," he went on presently,
"I got him to admit that there is a bare chance, on account of his being so young, that Fee
may get around again, in a sort of a way; but it's too slim to be counted on, and it could
only be after a long time,--two or three years or longer. Dr. Archard'll be in town to-morrow,
and they will consult; but Gordon says he's had cases of this kind before, and knows the symptoms
well. I think he would have given us hope if he could. You see Fee isn't strong; oh, if it
had only been I!--great, uncouth, ugly brute that I am!" Phil struck his hand so fiercely on
the bed that the springs just bounced me up and down.

"Fee's feet and legs are utterly useless," he began again; "his spine is so weak he can't sit
up. Even his fingers are affected,--he can't close them on anything; he's lost his grip. And
he may lie in this condition for years; he may never recover from it. Oh, think of that, Jack!"
Phil broke out excitedly; "think of it! Our Fee, with his splendid, clever mind, with all his
bright hopes and ambitions, with the certainty of going to college so near at hand,--to have
to lie there, day in and day out, a helpless, useless creature! And brought to it by my doing,--his
own brother! Oh!" He drew his knee up, and folding his arms round it, laid his face down with
a moan.

I slipped over to his side and threw my arm across his shoulder. "Phil, dear," I said, to comfort
him, "try and not think of that part; I'm sure Fee wouldn't want you to. You know he had that
other attack--and--perhaps this would have come any way--"

But Phil interrupted, looking at me with those miserable, hollow eyes. "Not like this," he
said. "Dr. Gordon told me himself that the blow Fee got was what did the mischief this time;
with medical care he might have got over those other attacks. Gordon didn't dream that I was
the infuriated drunken brute who flung him against that chair. Drunken! I think I must have
been possessed by a devil! That I should have raised my hand against Fee,--the brother I love
so dearly, my chum, my comrade, mother's boy, of whom she was so tender! Oh, God! shall I have
to carry this awful remorse all the rest of my life!" His voice broke in a kind of a wail,
and he threw his clinched hands up over his head.

"Oh, Phil, dear Phil! Oh, please don't," I begged. "Oh, Fee wouldn't want you to talk like this."

"I know he wouldn't. God bless him!" Phil answered in a quieter tone, dropping his arms by
his sides. "Oh, Jack, it cuts me up awfully to see him lying there so cheerful and serene when
he knows that what's happened has just spoiled his whole life--"

"Oh, does he know?" I exclaimed.

"He insisted on knowing, and bore it like a soldier. When I broke down he smiled at me, actually
smiled, Jack, with, 'Why, old fellow, it isn't so bad--as all that'--o-oh!" Phil choked up,
and, throwing himself on the bed, he buried his face deep in the pillows, that Fee in the next
room might not hear his sobs.

       *       *       *       *       *

That was a miserable day. Dr. Archard came quite early, and after the consultation we heard
that, in the main, he agreed with Dr. Gordon. "Still," he said to Nora and me, as he was going,
"Felix may surprise us all by recovering much faster and more fully than we expect. The thing
is to get him out of town just as soon as we can, and in the mean time to follow directions
and keep him quiet and cheerful. Phil seems to have taken charge of the boy, and I do believe
he's going to develop into a nurse. I'll send you round a masseur, and I'll write to your father,
so he'll not be alarmed. Keep up your spirits, and your roses, my dear," patting Nora's cheek.
Then he got into his carriage and drove away.

Because the doctor said that about keeping Fee quiet, no one but Phil or nurse was allowed
in his room all day. But late in the afternoon nurse let me take something up to him,--she
had to see to the children's dinner, or something or other downstairs; she said if Phil were
with him I wasn't to stay.

I knocked, but not very hard,--my hands were pretty full; and then, as nobody answered, I opened
the door softly, and went in. Fee was lying sort of hunched up among the pillows, which weren't
any whiter than his face. Oh! didn't he look delicate!

He had on his glasses again, and now his eyes were shining through them, and there was a very
sweet expression on his lips. Phil was sitting on the edge of the bed, talking in a low, unsteady
voice: "I didn't really care for them," he was saying, "and there were times when I fairly
loathed them; but somehow they got round me, and--I began to go there regularly. They drank
and gambled; they said all young fellows did it, and they laughed at me when I objected. I
held out for a good while,--then one night I gave in. I was a fool; I dreaded their ridicule.
There were times, though, when I was disgusted with myself. Then I began to win at cards, and--well--I
thought I'd save the money for a purpose; though in my heart I knew full well that--the--the--the
person I was saving for wouldn't touch a penny got that way. Well, then something happened
that made that money I was saving quite unnecessary, and then I just played to lose. I wanted
those fellows to have their money back; after that I thought I'd cut loose from 'em. That was
the reason I wanted to go back to Chad's that night,--was it only last night? It seems like
years ago!"

Phil dropped his face down in his hands for a minute; then he went on: "I started out this
morning and gave each of the fellows his money back. They didn't want to take it,--they think
me a crazy loon; but I insisted. I've got beyond caring for their opinion. And now, Fee, the
rest of my life belongs to you; you've paid an awful price for it, old fellow,--I'm not worth
it. Think of your college course--your profession--all the things we planned! I'm not worth it!"

Phil's voice failed, but he cleared his throat quickly, and spoke out clearly and solemnly.
"Felix," he said, "I will never play cards again as long as I live; and I will never drink
another drop of liquor,--so help me God." He raised his hand as he spoke, as if registering
the oath. Then he bent over and buried his face in the bed-clothes.

Slowly Fee's poor helpless hand went out and fell on Phil's head. "What is all the rest compared
with this," he said, oh, so tenderly! then, with a little unsteady laugh, "Philippus, I always
said there wasn't a mean bone in your body." And then Phil threw his arms round Felix and kissed
him.

I laid what I had brought down on the table, and went quickly away, shutting the door a little
hard that they might know somebody'd gone out. I should have left just as soon as I found they
were talking,--I know I should,--but it seemed as if Phil's words just held me there. I've
told Phil and Felix all about it since then, and they say they don't mind my having heard;
but between what I felt for them both, and for my having done such a mean thing as to listen
to what wasn't meant for me to hear, I was a pretty miserable boy that afternoon.

I flew upstairs to the schoolroom, and throwing myself down on the old sofa I just had a good
cry. It seems as if I were an awful cry-baby those days; but how could a person help it, with
such dreadful things happening?

Well, I hadn't been there very long when in came Nora and opened the windows to let in the
lovely afternoon light, and of course then I got up.

I guess I must have been a forlorn-looking object, for Nora smoothed my hair back off my forehead
and kissed me,--she doesn't often do those things. "I'm going to write to Nannie," she said,
laying some note-paper on the schoolroom table. "It is the first minute I've had in which to
do it; perhaps,"--slowly,--"if she had been here, all this trouble might not have happened.
Why don't you send Betty a few lines, Jack? You know she will want to hear of Fee; but don't
frighten her about him."

So I thought I would write Betty,--I owed her a letter. After all, she wasn't having at all
a bad time with the Ervengs; in fact, I fancy she was enjoying herself, though she was careful
not to say so.

Nora and I were sitting at the same table, but far apart, and I'd just called out and asked
her if there were two l's in wonderful--I was writing about Fee--when the schoolroom door opened,
and in walked Chad Whitcombe! As usual, he looked a regular dandy, and he held a bunch of roses
in his hand. He came forward with his hand out and smiling: "I've--aw--just called in for a
minute," he said. "I thought--aw--you might care for these flowers--"

But Nora rose quickly from her chair, pushing it a little from her, and putting her hands behind
her back, she faced him with her head up in the air. My! how handsome she looked,--like a queen,
or something grand like that! "I thank you for your polite intention," she said very stiffly
and proudly, "but hereafter I prefer to have neither flowers nor visits from you."

Well, you should have seen Chad's face! he'd been stroking his moustache, but now, positively,
he stood staring at Nora with his mouth open, he was so astonished. "Wha--what's wrong?" he
stammered. "What've I done?"

Then Nora gave it to him; she didn't mince matters,--truly, she made me think of Betty. "What
have you done?" she repeated, opening her grey eyes at him. "Oh! only acted as I have never
known any one calling himself a gentleman to act. Mr. Whitcombe,"--with a toss of her head
equal to anything Betty could have done,--"I will not have the acquaintance of a man who drinks
and gambles."

Then I was the one to be astonished; I didn't dream Nora knew anything about that part. Phil
must have told her that day.

"And who not only does those dreadful things himself," went on Nora, "but inveigles others
into doing them, too. The idea of coming here among us as a friend, and then leading Phil off,--trying
to ruin his life!" Nonie's cheeks were scarlet; she was getting madder and madder with every
word she said.

