FIVE CENTS.

  THE GREAT ROUND WORLD
  AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT

    Vol. 2--No. 24,              June 16, 1898.           Whole No. 84. Each=

       *       *       *       *       *

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:

          One year, - 52 numbers   $1.50
          Six months, 26  "          .75
          Foreign subscriptions     2.25

Numbers are bound up into four parts each year. Charge for binding, 35 cents a part.

Remittances should be by registered letter, or by check, express-order, or postal-order, payable
to THE GREAT ROUND WORLD PUBLISHING CO.

No receipts are sent for remittances unless requested. The number on the address label represents
the number of the paper with which subscription will expire.

Ten days' notice should be given of any change of address.

          ADVERTISING RATES ON APPLICATION

          =ADDRESS:=

          Great Round World Publishing Co.
          =3 and 5 West 18th Street, New York City=

       *       *       *       *       *

At any of the following stores copies and bound volumes of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD will be found
on sale, and subscribers may exchange their numbers for bound volumes:

          JOHN WANAMAKER, Philadelphia, Pa.
          W. B. CLARKE & CO., Boston, Mass.
          J. & R. SIMMS, 123 22d St., Chicago, Ill.
          WOODWARD & LOTHROP, Washington, D. C.
          PETER PAUL BOOK CO., Buffalo, N. Y.
          BURROWS BROS. CO., Cleveland, Ohio.
          PRESTON & ROUNDS CO., Providence, R. I.
          H. H. CARTER & CO., Boston, Mass.
          WHITAKER & RAY CO., San Francisco, Cal.
          THE ROBERT CLARKE CO., Cincinnati, O.
          THE MARTIN & HOYT CO., Atlanta, Ga.
          ST. PAUL BOOK & STATIONERY CO., St. Paul, Minn.

       *       *       *       *       *

=TALK IS CHEAP=

=DON'T PAY $100 FOR A=

          =TALKING
          MACHINE=

when you can buy one which for amusement will make the children happy and cause the old folks
to smile. Complicated machines get out of order.

=$3.50=

=The United States Talking Machine=

is simple, durable; no parts to break or get out of order. Any child can operate it. It is
neatly encased in a hard wood box, well finished, size 8-1/2×11-1/2×3-1/2 inches, with brass
hinges and catch; has hearing tubes for two persons, one (Berliner's Gramophone) record and
twenty-five needle points. Price, complete with one Record, (express charges prepaid) =$3.50=.
Weight 4 lbs. Remit by Bank Draft, Express, or Post Office money order. =Agents wanted.=

For terms and particulars address

            =UNITED STATES TALKING MACHINE CO.=
          =(DEPT.

Adjustable Book Covers.

These covers fit perfectly all sizes of books. They are all ready for use--properly gummed--and
do not have to be cut. They are made of a special paper, manufactured exclusively for these
covers, which is admitted to be the best for wear, and also for cleanliness, as it is glazed
and cannot readily be soiled. They are not easily torn, for when adjusted to a book all exposed
edges are of double thickness.

=SIZES.=

=No. A1--Per dozen, *20 cents. Per 100, $1.50. Per 1,000, $12.50.=

This size fits the smallest book, and also small 12mos.

=No. 1--Same price.=

Especially adapted to school and library books. It will fit 16mo. to small 8 vo. sizes, and
is suitable for 90 per cent. of the school books in use.

=No. 2--Per dozen, *40 cents. Per 100, $2.50 Per 1,000, $17.50.=

For small geographies, encyclopædias, law books, &c.

=No. 3--Per dozen, *60 cents. Per 100, $3.50. Per 1,000, $25.00.=

For large geographies.

*PRICES INCLUDE POSTAGE TO ANY ADDRESS.

          =CAN THE BOOK COVERS YOU USE BE REMOVED
          WITHOUT DAMAGING THE BOOKS?=

=Do you not have to buy three sizes to cover Histories, Readers, Arithmetics, &c.?=

=Look at the book covers you are using and see how they stick to covers; they must injure the
books.=

="ONE PIECE" Covers will not stick to or injure the covers of the books.=

=One size will fit Arithmetics, Histories, &c., and the new paper is acknowledged to be heavier,
tougher, and better than any other cover paper used.=

=Send for samples and test them for yourself. Sample dozen, postpaid, 25 cents.=

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRST EDITION EXHAUSTED

       *       *       *       *       *

A Short History of.... SPAIN

          BY
          MARY PLATT PARMELE
          (Author of the famous Evolution of Empire Series of Histories)

          =10 Cents Each      POSTPAID      $1.00 per Dozen=

       *       *       *       *       *

WE QUOTE FROM LETTERS RECEIVED:

" . . . Wonderfully condensed . . ." "It reads like a romance." "Can be finished in less than
an hour, yet gives a full bird's-eye view of a country and people. The author's style is charming."
"Accidentally running across your cute little History of Spain, I was so taken with it as an
epitome of the sort that I have long believed there was room for, that I would like to see
what else you have. So please mail me a couple of sample copies of your weekly, as I have not
seen that yet."

"Every school should have a course in Spanish History at this time."

          =Second Edition Now in Press=

       *       *       *       *       *

          =The Great Round World Publishing Company=
              =5 West 18th Street, New York City=

       *       *       *       *       *

'TIS THE SMALL THINGS OF LIFE THAT GIVE PLEASURE

          That's why the
            "=DUBLEOOK=" Bicycle
                              Hanger
                           is PERFECT

          =50c.=

          =FULL NICKELED
          COMPLETE=

          =EASY= for Cleaning and Storing
          =SAVES= Tires and Enamel
          All Running Gear Free

          Of all dealers or postpaid of

          =THE G.W.E. CO., Room 1103, 26 Cortlandt Street, New York=

       *       *       *       *       *

=BINDING CASE=

To hold loose numbers of the current part of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD--preventing them from being
lost, getting soiled, or scattered. May be had in green, red, or blue cloth. =Price, 35 Cents.=

                     ADDRESS
          =Great Round World Publishing Co.=
           =5 WEST 18TH STREET, NEW YORK.=

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LIVING METHOD FOR LEARNING

=How to Think in French=

The most successful means yet devised for learning and teaching how to SPEAK FRENCH.....

=Sent, postpaid, on receipt of $1.00=

"I am sure the book will accomplish precisely what is set to be its purpose."--=Prof. James
W. Bright=, Johns Hopkins University.

"You have done a great and beautiful work in the publication of your manuals."--=Bishop John
H. Vincent=, Chancellor of Chautauqua.

=How to Think in German=

=Sent, postpaid, on receipt of $1.50=

"As a practical book to aid in quickly acquiring the power of correct and fluent speaking of
the German language this work has no equal."--=Scientific American=, Nov. 11, 1893, p. 316.

=How to Think in Spanish=

=Sent, postpaid, on receipt of $1.50=

"The learner is not obliged to think of rules or of English words when he wishes to speak Spanish."--=N.
Y. School Journal=, July 14, 1894.

       *       *       *       *       *

            =Prof. CH. F. KROEH, Author and Publisher=
          Stevens Institute of Technology         HOBOKEN, N. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Great Round World

And What Is Going On In It

       *       *       *       *       *

Vol. II., No. 24.   JUNE 16, 1898    Whole No. 84

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

  With the Editor                         745
  New Books                               746
  Lieutenant Hobson's Brave Deed          749
  News from Havana                        753
  Landing Effected in Cuba                755
  Origin of the Red Cross Society         756
  The "Plimsoll Mark"                     758
  The International Date Line             758
  News from the Philippines               760
  Lieutenant Carranza's Missing Letter    761
  Life in Skaguay, Alaska                 763
  Interview with Señor Moret              766
  Removal of Political Disabilities       767
  Story of the Sierra Leone Massacre      767
  The Hawaiian Flag                       770
  Bombardment of Santiago Forts           771
  LATEST NEWS                             774

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: =With the Editor=]

We have received a number of inquiries from our young subscribers in reference to what they
may do for the soldiers and sailors. The following circular letter which has just been received
will, we feel sure, interest all of our subscribers. The work outlined is certainly to be commended,
and we hope to hear of branches of this society being started in other parts of the country.

FIRST NEW YORK AMBULANCE RED CROSS EQUIPMENT SOCIETY.

(Auxiliary to American Red Cross Relief Committee.)

Honorary President,      Treasurer,
Bishop Potter.           Robert Bacon
                         (J. P. Morgan & Co.).

          "Orange, N. J., May 31, 1898.

          "The First Dearborn-Morgan School Auxiliary of the
          New York Ambulance Red Cross Equipment Society has
          been organized for the purpose of interesting boys
          and girls in the present relief work of the Red
          Cross. The Red Cross is an international society
          which was formed to give help to the wounded in
          war-time, irrespective of friend or foe.

          "The purpose of the New York Ambulance Red Cross
          Equipment Society is to assist the Red Cross
          during this war between America and Spain by
          providing ambulances and ambulance launches for
          moving sick or wounded soldiers to field hospitals
          or hospital ships.

          "All contributions to the First Dearborn-Morgan
          School Auxiliary may be sent either to the
          President or to the Treasurer.

          "It is earnestly hoped that all boys and girls
          will assist in this national work."

       *       *       *       *       *

=New Books=

"The General's Double," by Captain King, and "Trooper Ross and Signal Butte," by the same author,
come to us from the press of J. B. Lippincott Company. The former is a capital story of the
Civil War, the plot being based upon the remarkable likeness existing between two men in the
Union army. It has all of the charm of the works of this favorite author.

The second book contains two stories, the heroes of both being boys. The first, "Trooper Ross,"
describes the adventures of an officer's son, his exciting experiences with Indians on the
plains as a little chap, taking his part at boarding-school later; then, failing to obtain
his admission to West Point, he works his way through the ranks to his commission. "Signal
Butte" covers a series of exciting adventures in Arizona, in which two boys are the central
figures. This book will prove a great favorite with the boys especially.

          "It is a very admirable and spirited work, as good
          for old as for young people, and ought to be in
          every home.

          "From one of your subscribers at Great Neck,
          Long Island."

This book is published by Crowell & Co., Boston, and is indeed well worth reading. There are
two editions--one illustrated, price $1.50; the other without illustrations, price 60 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Current History

       *       *       *       *       *

In our last number we mentioned in the "Latest News" the sinking of the Merrimac at the entrance
of the harbor of Santiago; since then a number of accounts have come, which we are sure you
will be interested to hear. The brave fellows who were with Lieutenant Hobson were Daniel Montague,
George Charette, Osborn Diegnan, George F. Phillips, Francis Kelly, J. C. Murphy, and Randolph
Clausen.

Before submitting his plans to Admiral Sampson, Lieutenant Hobson had worked them out to the
smallest detail. Shortly before starting he told his plans to one of his companions. There
are to be ten torpedoes below the water-line placed against the bulkheads and connected with
each other by a wire under the ship. These torpedoes connect with the bridge, and they should
do their work very quickly. I shall have four of the men on the deck with me, and in the engine-room
two others. We will all be in our underclothing, with our revolvers and ammunition, in water-tight
cases, strapped to our waists. Near the anchor forward I shall have one of the men placed,
with an axe, and around his waist a light line which will be attached to the bridge where I
stand. The minute that I order the engines stopped I shall jerk this cord; this will be a signal
to him to cut the lashing and let go the forward anchor. He will then jump overboard and swim
to the boat at the stern. The men in the engine-room, after stopping the engines, will open
the sea connections, and then join the rest and throw themselves overboard. I shall fire the
torpedoes the last thing, and this will insure the rapid sinking of the vessel." When Hobson
was asked if he expected to escape alive, he said: "Well, I suppose the batteries on shore
will make it pretty hot for us; but they will not be able to see very clearly, and I think
we have a fair chance of getting away. We certainly shall not allow ourselves to be taken prisoners
without fighting for it." All Wednesday night the crew were at work on the Merrimac to get
her stripped for her final resting-place. Early Thursday morning a start was made, but the
vessel was ordered back, as the delays in getting her ready had made it impossible to take
advantage of the darkness. Very early Friday morning the second start was made, and this time
she succeeded in getting well in shore before the first glimmer of daylight; but soon the crews
on the ships, who were anxiously waiting, saw the flash of the first gun on shore, and then
a brisk firing began from both batteries and fort, which was kept up for some time. Of the
Merrimac, nothing more was seen until broad daylight, when the top of her mast was discovered
protruding from the water in just the position that Hobson had planned to place her.

Admiral Cervera sent a boat out with the news that the men had been captured, and to make arrangements
for their exchange. Lieutenant Hobson's exploit has received universal praise from all parts
of the world; he will unquestionably be promoted and receive special distinction from the Government.

One of the young officers on the New York, Cadet Powell, also displayed great bravery. He was
detailed to command the New York's steam launch, which accompanied the Merrimac to pick up
Hobson and his men if they succeeded in escaping from the harbor; he was the last man to see
them. When about two hundred yards from the harbor the first gun was fired from the eastern
bluff; we were then about a half mile from shore. The firing increased very rapidly, and we
lost sight of the Merrimac in the smoke which the wind carried off shore. The western battery
finally was used and began firing. They shot wildly, and we did not see where the shots struck.
We then ran in closer to the shore. Great admiration is expressed at the Navy Department in
Washington at the coolness and pluck shown by Cadet Powell; he is likely to profit by his great
courage. Young Powell is one of the cadets from the Naval Academy whom Lieutenant Hobson secured
permission to take with him; they were in the class which Hobson instructed, and he wished
them to accompany him in order that they might have practical experience in the effect of explosives
on ships. At Annapolis young Powell was considered one of the brightest cadets; he graduated
at the head of his class.

Spanish accounts of the blowing up of the Merrimac are exceedingly amusing. The official announcement
is made that an American vessel, trying to enter the harbor of Santiago, "was sunk by the batteries";
the affair is described as a brilliant Spanish victory; it is also added that Admiral Cervera
personally saved an American officer from drowning, as his ship was in close proximity to the
cruiser during the engagement. The official report goes on to say that the mines guarding the
harbor were exploded simultaneously with the opening of the fire from the ships, forts, and
batteries; congratulations were sent to Admiral Cervera.

[Footnote: Authority for pronunciation of proper names: Century Dictionary.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Each day is taken advantage of by the Spaniards at Havana to add to their defences. Earthworks
are being rapidly thrown up in the neighborhood of the city; a signal service has been established
to enable them to guard the coast at all the points, and they feel confident that a successful
invasion cannot take place in that part of the island, as it is so well guarded with modern
rapid-fire guns in the batteries, and quite a large force is concentrated there for the defence
of the city.

Little, if any, news comes from the blockading squadron off the north coast of Cuba; there
are, from time to time, reports of engagements and the landing of troops; but official news
has not yet been given out, and for this we must wait until the Government deems it advisable
to publish it. Several regiments have been embarked at Mobile, and by this time are supposed
to be off the coast of Cuba; they started in high spirits, and there was a great deal of enthusiasm
on the part of the people who saw them start. They have probably gone by way of Tampa, and
been joined there by the other transports.

A great quantity of ammunition and supplies will be sent with the troops, so that they may
not suffer from lack of material to make the invasion successful.

One of our New York papers publishes a letter, written by a young girl in Havana to a friend
in New York; it gives an excellent idea as to the true state of affairs in Cuba. Among other
things, she says:

"Our fisherman brought in some papers from New York, and what a lot of lies they contain! My
father and all the other officials say that we have food here for five months--flour, codfish,
beans, and groceries--all brought down from New York, and salted meat from Montevideo. . . .

"Pa says that if you Americans had attacked Havana when you declared war it would have surrendered
in five hours, but that it is now fortified so that it is strong as Gibraltar. You know, they
built a great big railroad upon sticks, in front of the forts, and took cars of sand and dumped
them down, so that they have a mound in front of all the forts about thirty feet wide and ten
feet high. I went over the fortifications yesterday, and I saw fifteen of those immense 12-inch
guns. They say they can shoot twelve miles. We have got 50,000 troops here in Havana, and 60,000
in the provinces, and some 40,000 volunteers. These are all veterans, and all the generals
say that it would take an army of 200,000 to beat us. The coast is all supplied with telephone
and telegraph wires, so that any time your boats attempt to land we can have a big force there
in a couple of hours to drive them off. Part of Cervera's fleet is in Santiago. There is so
much mystery about this! Whether the admiral is there or not, no one seems to know. The rest
of the fleet, some fifteen vessels, is somewhere down in the Antilles, and Captain-General
Blanco says they are going to attack your coast in about three weeks.

"The Alfonso XII. has been turned into a hospital ship, and all her guns have been taken out
of her. You know she is the boat that was anchored opposite the Maine and had in her the pneumatic
torpedoes. They say a man named Arjona had something to do with the blowing up of the Maine,
but I guess it was Weyler's orders. . . .

"The whole city is divided up into sections on what they call the 'Humanity Committee's plan.'
They find out who are in sympathy with the Cubans or with the United States; and in case Havana
is bombarded all these people are going to be thrown into Cabanas or shot. The people are such
fools they think nothing is known about what they are doing."

       *       *       *       *       *

We told you in a recent number about the unsuccessful result of the attempt to land an expedition
in Cuba; this result was largely due, no doubt, to the fact that the Spaniards were advised
in advance, through Spanish spies in this country, of the intended departure of the expedition.
On May 31st, the steamer Florida returned to Key West, after having successfully landed an
important expedition on the island. This time they succeeded in taking their departure without
it being known to any one. The expedition was under command of Colonel Lacret, with whom was
Captain J. A. Dorst, of the United States army. The Florida, escorted by the gunboat Osceola,
drew up close to the shore, and first landed scouts to ascertain if all was clear; these scouts
were met by a band of 1,500 insurgents, under Captains Vereira and Rojas. There was absolutely
no interruption to the unloading of the Florida, as no sign of a Spaniard was seen. This is
the largest expedition which has ever been landed in Cuba in aid of the insurgents.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a very interesting account of the origin of the Red Cross Society in The Churchman.
About forty years ago, M. Henry Dimont, a native of Switzerland, having witnessed the unnecessary
suffering of the wounded, from lack of care, at the battle of Solferino, was so much impressed
that he published a book, pointing out the necessity of forming a corporation of nurses to
work in the cause of humanity in time of war, regardless of nationality of the injured, and
who should be permitted to aid the wounded on the battle-field, under the protection of a flag
which should be recognized as neutral.

So much interest was taken in the idea that the outcome was a convention held at Geneva in
1864, which was attended by representatives from sixteen of the great nations of the world,
who signed an agreement that they would protect members of the association when caring for
the wounded on the field of battle. The society adopted for its colors the Swiss cross, as
a compliment to its birthplace; they, however, reversed the colors, and the flag is therefore
a red cross on a white field, and is the only military hospital flag of civilized warfare;
it protects persons from molestation who work under the emblem performing services in aid of
the wounded. Great care is used in granting permission to persons to wear this emblem; and
in order that it shall not be taken advantage of to spy in the enemies' camp, private marks
are added to prevent imitation. The headquarters of the International Committee is at Geneva;
the president of the society is M. Gustav Moynier.

In 1882, Miss Clara Barton was delegated by the President of the United States to represent
this country at the Congress of the Red Cross Committee, and was made a member of the International
Board of Managers when the United States signed the international treaty.

It was decided that the work of the Red Cross Society should not be confined to times of war,
but that in case of disasters and calamities, which were always to be apprehended, the organization
was to provide aid. During the past seventeen years the American Red Cross Society has served
in fifteen disasters and famines, and Russians, Armenians, and Cubans have received aid from
this society.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friday, June 3d, Samuel Plimsoll, known as the "sailors' friend," died in England. Plimsoll
was the originator of the famous "Plimsoll mark," and this is what caused him to be called
the sailors' friend. Many years ago it was the custom of unprincipled ship-owners to send their
vessels to sea very much overloaded; this was done to save the expense of a double voyage,
for in those days there were few steam merchantmen, and sailing-vessels oftentimes took months
for their voyages. The Plimsoll mark is painted on the vessel to indicate how much cargo she
should carry. When a vessel has her full cargo the Plimsoll mark is at the water-line; laws
were passed making it illegal to load vessels so deeply as to sink this mark below the surface
of the water, and in consequence sailors' lives are not risked in overloaded vessels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some very interesting questions have arisen in reference to the difference of time between
Manila and New York. The difference between Manila and New York is about eleven hours; when
it is five in the morning in Manila, it is four in the afternoon with us. In order to change
Manila time to our time we must deduct about eleven hours. This is all very simple so far as
hours are concerned; but when we try to find out what day it is we run against a more complicated
matter, for there is a certain place, or rather a certain mysterious line, which the great
nations have agreed upon as the international date line. This date line is supposed to be the
180th meridian longitude reckoning from Greenwich; but this meridian is not actually followed,
for in the case of the Philippine Islands it takes a long sweep, and passes to the west of
them, and, in consequence, there is a difference of nearly a whole day between Manila and Hong-Kong,
although the actual difference of time is but about half an hour. This difference causes all
kinds of complications there, in that Hong-Kong and Manila are so near each other. A telegram
dated at Hong-Kong, say, the 1st of May at one o'clock, will reach us April 30th; if sent direct
to Manila it would reach there apparently nearly twenty-four hours before it was sent, for
when it is Monday in Manila it is Tuesday in Hong-Kong. This will account for the receipt of
the despatch in reference to Commodore Dewey's victory dated Hong-Kong, May 2d, stating that
the bombardment was then taking place, whereas it was really Sunday, May 1st, in Manila. The
necessity for having an international date line can best be understood if you will imagine
yourself travelling around the world in some sort of a conveyance which enables you to keep
pace with the sun; say, for instance, your start is on a Monday, with the sun directly over
your head. If it were not for the international date line it would always be Monday to you;
instead of this, each time that you cross the 180th meridian the day changes.

       *       *       *       *       *

A report has been received from Hong-Kong that the insurgent chief Aguinaldo, at the Philippines,
has issued a proclamation that would seem to show that he hopes to make himself leader or dictator
over the island. The report goes on to say that he has issued orders that the lives and property
of Europeans and all Spanish non-combatants are to be protected. It is said that his treatment
of the captives has been very fair, and that he is conducting the campaign against Spain in
a very able manner. Since he has taken charge of affairs the Spanish soldiers have lost battle
after battle, and it is said that there are now in Aguinaldo's hands over two thousand prisoners,
including many officers. Aguinaldo reports that the Governor of Cavite (cä-v[=e]-t[=a]) has
surrendered to him. One of the American captains has written to Hong-Kong, stating that it
is his opinion "that the rebels have undergone a radical change since the arrival of Aguinaldo;
the Spaniards have lost every engagement, and if our people do not hurry, there will be no
Spanish army left."

The American vessels have taken no part in the fight between Spain and the insurgents; Admiral
Dewey has contented himself with superintending and insisting upon proper conduct of affairs.
The news he sends is exceedingly cheerful, and he seems to be quite confident that he can hold
out until reinforcements arrive; he anticipates no trouble in capturing the city of Manila.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Carranza's missing letter has been found. You will remember we told in our last
number of the arrest of a Montreal detective who had been arrested and accused of stealing
it. It was not taken by the Montreal detective, but by a secret service officer of our Government.
It seems that the Spanish officials at Montreal have been very carefully watched for some time,
for it was known that they were spying upon our Government. The detectives had followed Minister
Polo and his staff ever since they left Washington, and had secured absolute proof that Du
Bosc and Carranza were collecting information and forwarding it to the Spanish Government.
On the pretext of purchasing the house, they were shown all over it, and succeeded in securing
a number of important letters, cablegrams, maps, etc., which were forwarded to the Government.
The letter which Carranza has made so much fuss about was stolen in a very clever way. The
detective took a sheet of fly paper, and in a careless way dropped it over the letter; then
took up the fly paper and the letter attached to it, and passed it to another detective, who
at once forwarded it to Washington. Part of the letter has been published. It is addressed
to his Excellency Don Jose Gomez Imay. In it Carranza expresses his regret that Imay was not
appointed to command the Cadiz fleet; he speaks disparagingly of Camara and highly of Cervera;
most of this part of the letter is in reference to his personal employment by the Government,
and he expresses great anxiety to be away to the front and in active service on the fleet.

Speaking of his spy system, he says: "We have had bad luck because they have captured our two
best spies. The Americans are showing the most extraordinary vigilance. I shall be extremely
gratified to have a ship or a torpedo-boat to run the blockade, or anything rather than playing
second fiddle." These quotations go to show that Carranza was not over-pleased with the work
of conducting the spy department in Canada. He takes the trouble to criticize Cervera's actions,
and he alludes to him as "Don Pasquale," and says that he cannot believe that the Admiral would
do such a stupid thing as to get caught in Santiago, his purpose being to attack the American
fleet and delay the invasion of Cuba. This letter demonstrates very clearly the wisdom of the
Government in keeping carefully guarded all knowledge of the movements of our army and navy,
for Carranza has taken advantage of the statements published and information easily obtained
heretofore, and has kept his Government informed, and has also personally been advising Admiral
Cervera whenever opportunity offered: he speaks of having cabled to Cervera on 20th of May.
Our Government has made application to the English Government for the expulsion of the Spanish
spies from British territory.

Kellert, the Montreal detective, has caused the arrest of both Du Bosc and Carranza, in a civil
suit for damages for false imprisonment; so the Spaniards are in hotter water than ever, especially
as all of their money in the Bank of Montreal has been seized as security.

       *       *       *       *       *

A very interesting account of life in Skaguay, Alaska, has recently been received. The account
is written by a Wisconsin woman who, with her husband, went to Alaska to open a restaurant
and hotel in Skaguay. She writes: "I never felt so lonesome in my life; I never worked so hard,
but have never been so happy; money comes in so fast that we do not know what to do with it.
At first, when there was no bank, we were obliged to hide the money in all parts of the house,
and we were in constant terror. We had paper money, silver money, gold money, gold dust, and
every form of currency that can be imagined hidden all over the house; and as the town was
full of people who were without money, and who would not hesitate to cut one's throat for a
dollar, we did not have a single moment free from anxiety. Early in the winter we did succeed
in sending a number of thousands of dollars to Seattle, and were very much relieved when we
received a receipt from the bank.

"The transportation companies are swindlers. They are persuading thousands of people to come
to this awful country who will never be able to go back, and all for the sake of making the
profit on transportation.

"Flour that we had shipped from Seattle, and which cost over $5 per barrel, cost as much more
for freight to this place. But as we sold it for over $40 a barrel before it left the dock,
we had nothing to complain of; and it was very poor flour at that, not fit for bread, and hardly
suitable for the plainest kind of cooking.

"As for our restaurant, we started it with the idea of giving people good home cooking, and
we can hardly serve the people, they come so fast. The restaurant is open day and night, and
the tables always full. At first we got a good price for our meals, that is, from $1.50 to
$2.50 for a dinner. But there is more competition now, and prices have gone down.

"The town is still filled with gamblers, and is a mining town in every sense of the word, although
the troops keep the rough element in fairly good order. The town is particularly lonely for
refined women, as there are very few here, and very little in the way of amusement for them.

"It is not so very cold. I have seen as severe weather in the States; and the thermometer rarely
goes below 15 degrees below zero, and that is not so bad. But there is very little sun, and
this we miss the most. We work by lamplight day and night.

"Whatever people may say about the Klondike, there is still plenty of gold there; and although
we are making a barrelful of money here at this business, we will very probably 'up stakes'
and go to the diggings. Every boat that arrives is loaded with gold-hunters, and Skaguay is
crowded. Hundreds of people are camped between here and Chilkoot Pass, and are scattered all
along the trail. This year will bring many improvements in the line of travelling, and, in
consequence, there will be less hardship."

       *       *       *       *       *

Much interest has been awakened by the report of an interview with Señor Moret, ex-Secretary
of the Colonies of Spain. He is reported to have said that "the Government does not know where
it is going. There is no person in Spain who can tell the outcome of the present situation.
The Government is not a fixed one, and allows matters to run in their own course heedless of
the effect; in other words, matters are allowed to drift their own way. It is useless to conceal
the fact that the Cabinet is not solid. Its members are working at cross purposes, the ministers
lack energy, and, in fact, are absolutely incompetent, and simply trust to chance to get out
of their present troubles.

"A campaign in favor of peace has been begun, and is progressing among the people. I am convinced
that if the people were allowed to state their wishes, even the soldiers would advocate peace.

"It is difficult to say whether the regency will be overthrown, nor can I say what will happen
to a country that is without guidance and with a foreign war on its hands. If the regency is
overthrown it will be an immense misfortune to Spain. The affairs of Spain are in complete
disorder."

This report comes by way of London, and would seem to confirm reports previously published
as to the condition of matters in Spain.

       *       *       *       *       *

A bill for the removal of all political disabilities arising from the Civil War, recently presented
in Congress, has passed and is now a law, as President McKinley has formally approved it. This
bill refers to Section 3 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.

This amendment made it impossible for any person to hold a political position in the United
States who had taken up arms against the Government, if he had previously held a political
position and had declared his allegiance to the United States. The law that has just been passed
declares that "disabilities imposed by Section 3, Amendment 14, of the Constitution, heretofore
incurred, are hereby removed."

       *       *       *       *       *

Some of the survivors of the terrible massacre at Sierra Leone reached New York during the
past week. The story of their escape is a very thrilling one. It seems that among the natives
in that part of Africa there is a secret society. When the natives feel that they have any
grievance against a particular tribe or people, they send word to all members of the society
that "pura" is declared against the offenders; this means that they are condemned to death.

As a result of the hut tax, which we told you about in a recent number, "pura" was declared
against all English people in Africa. News soon reached the different missionary stations that
this had been done; but the attack on the Rotufunk mission came almost without warning. Mr.
Ward, who is the only one of these missionaries left alive, went in the latter part of April
to Freetown for supplies, and at that time there was not any sign of danger. Through natives
the story of the massacre has been obtained. It seems that early on the morning of May 3d native
women came running to the mission house and cried that an armed force was coming to capture
the place. The missionaries had no means of defence; their only hope of safety was in flight;
but, unfortunately, they were too late. When the tribesmen arrived and found that the whites
had left, they started through the bush, and soon captured all of the unfortunate missionaries.
The tortures to which they put these poor men and women are too terrible to repeat. Death put
a welcome end to their sufferings.

In the mean time, the colony of Americans at Shengeh received news that the natives had rebelled.
A friendly native visited the mission and told Dr. Burtner that the tribes had declared "pura"
against this mission, and that he had better fly. Immediately the work of getting boats in
readiness was begun, and the missionaries, together with the friendly natives, finally succeeded
in reaching Freetown.

Miss Mullins, whose station was at Momliga, where she was the only white person, had a very
narrow escape. April 29th, a band of natives came there shouting and singing. Miss Mullins
ran to the river in the hope of finding a boat in which she could escape. The boats had all
been taken by the natives, who had either fled or gone to join the war tribes. Knowing that
there was no chance of her hiding in the bush, the brave girl decided that if she was to die
she would die at her post.

