EXCEPTIONAL PSYCHOLOGICAL OPPORTUNITY. HAUNTED CASTLE TO LET.--A Baronet, in the North of England,
who can himself stand residence in it no longer, is anxious to meet with a suitable Tenant
for his Family Mansion likely to appreciate the mysterious horrors with which, owing to the
crimes of his ancestors in times past, it is now nightly associated. The chief manifestation
consists in the appearance, after midnight, in an oak-panelled bedroom, of a huge black wolf,
accompanied by a little old man in a bag-wig and faded blue velvet coat, who, looking sadly
at the occupant, and saying, in a mournful voice, "I've lost my return-ticket!" vanishes suddenly,
together with his swarthy companion, into the linen-cupboard. As this apparition is frequently
followed by the sound as of a man in a complete suit of armour falling head-over-heels down
six flights of stairs, and ultimately, amidst prolonged and piercing shrieks, apparently lodging
in the coal-cellar, a member of the Society for Promoting Psychical Research could not fail
to find the whole experience a singularly pleasing one. Several people having already been
frightened into fits through passing a night in the castle, a practical joker, who wished to
have a little fun at the expense of an aged and invalid relative or two, could not do better
than ask them down for a week, and let them take turns at sleeping in the bedroom in question.
Address, "BARONET," Goblynhurst, Howlover.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIGER-SHOOTING AT HOME. PRIME SPORT WITH BIG GAME.--A Country Clergyman, who, having taken
charge of a Menagerie for an invalid friend, has had the misfortune to let nearly the whole
of it escape and get loose in his parish, would be glad to have the assistance of several Sportsmen
of wide Indian and African experience, who would be willing to join him in an effort either
to kill, or, if possible, recapture it at the very earliest opportunity. Though the Advertiser
has succeeded in temporarily securing three lions, a chimpanzee, a couple of hyænas, and a
young hippopotamus in the Vicarage drawing-room, and has managed to envelope a boa-constrictor
in a lawn-tennis net, yet, as five full-grown Bengal tigers, and about thirty other wild beasts
of a miscellaneous character are at large in the village, and have, to his knowledge, already
devoured the Postman, the Curate, a School Inspector, and both the horses of the Local Railway
Omnibus, he feels that no time ought to be lost in replying to his appeal. One or two Experts,
armed with Hotchkiss Guns, would be of use, and might write. Would be glad to hear from a Battery
of Horse Artillery. Address, The VICAR, High Roaring, Notts.

       *       *       *       *       *

AERIAL VOYAGE. ADVANTAGEOUS EXPERIMENT FOR THE SHORT-SIGHTED.--A Gentleman who has long been
suffering from a chronic affection of the eyes, and has been recommended by his medical adviser
to try the stimulating effect of mountain air, having conceived the idea of procuring it for
himself by making an ascent in a second-hand and slightly damaged balloon that he has purchased
for the purpose, will be glad to hear from one or two thoroughly skilled and experienced Aëronauts
similarly afflicted, who would regard the beneficent results of being able to accompany him
as an equivalent for the professional services they might render to the carrying out of the
undertaking. As the Advertiser's idea is to start from some convenient Gas-Works in the Midland
Counties, and keep a steady northward course by holding on, before the wind, with a line and
grappling-hook to the system of telegraphic wires running alongside one of the great central
railways, and as he proposes merely stopping occasionally en route to unroof the house of some
local medical man when any of the party are in need of advice, he confidently anticipates that
the trip will not be devoid of novel and exciting features that will invest it with a distinctively
fresh and exhilarating character. For full and further particulars of the enterprise, which
have been carefully thought out, apply, by letter, to "IN NUBIBUS," Uppingham Lodge, Mount-Rising,
Ayrshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE THOUSAND BLAZING ACRES TO LET.--A Scotch Laird, who has, by some accident in celebrating
Her Majesty's Jubilee, managed to set fire to his entire property, the whole of which, after
smouldering for a season, has since burst into a violent conflagration, which he can neither
diminish nor control, would be willing to let it at a comparatively low rental to a London
Sportsman sufficient novice in grouse-shooting not to be surprised at picking up his birds
already roasted in the heather. As at the end of a day's trudging in the blinding heat of a
Sahara through smoking covers, accompanied by a powerful steam fire-engine, he will probably
discover that he has only succeeded in making a bag consisting of one singed "cheeper," the
"shooting" is likely to prove more attractive to the amateur unfamiliar with the rifle, but
accustomed to the tropical heat of a Central African Summer, than satisfactory to a professional
marksman counting on dispatching from a breezy moorland fifty brace or so to his relatives
and friends.--For terms, &c., apply to THE MAC SALAMANDER, Flaimhaugh, Glen Blayse, N.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

By a Canterbury Belle.

(Song at the End of the great Cricket Week.)

  Fine weather, fair cricket, the bold "Men of Kent"
    To flirt and bet gloves--thirty pairs are my winnings!--
  Why, yes, on the whole I'm extremely content;
    'Tis the nicest of outings to witness such innings.

  Chorus--A Cricketer should be an excellent match
      Because he is certain to be "a good catch."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FOREIGN (LANGUAGE) COMPETITION.

CARE EDITOR,--SENTIO obligatus scribere ad te propter extraordinariam novam departuram quam
Gubernator recenter fecit. (Scribo Latinè, quia si ille legit hoc, non poterit intelligere!
Prætendit intelligere Classica perfectè, sed habeo graves dubitationes de illo. Hoc est inter nos.)

Sunt nostri holidies nunc, ut tu sine dubio es awarus; et, alio mane, Pater subito nunciavit
suam intentionem detrahere me de Etonis, et mittere me ad aliquem Tutorem in Germaniâ, "in
ordinem ut discam modernas linguas, sic importantes (ille ait) in cursu vitæ nunc-dies."

Fui attonitus, ut tu potes imaginare. Nam Gubernator, ut totus mundus noscit, semper fuit laudator
Classicorum. ("Omne ignotum pro magnifico," intelligis; habeo illum illic, nonne? Hoc quoque
est inter nos.) In facto, pro momento ego fui "percussus omnis cumuli," ut dictum est.

Habere linquere Etonas, tam jolliam scholam! Et ire ad istos Teutones, qui non possunt ludere
vel cricketum vel footballum, et sunt generaliter horribiles muffi! Id est nimis malum pro verbis.

Vide explanationem paternæ inconsistentiæ! Forsitan vidisti, O PUNCHE, quomodo aliqui journales
pestilentes recenter abusi sunt Classicas linguas. Bene, Gubernator legit hos journales, et
nunc odit Græcum et Latinum. Ego ipse odi Græcum, sed Germanum est multo pejus, si possibile.
Ut pro Gallico, non est ita difficile, exceptâ pronunciatione, quæ est bestiissima res umquam
inventa. Sed "malo mispronunciare ad Etonas, quam in Continenti rectè dicere," ut CICERO dicit.

