John was so pleased that she should have been thinking of him that he could frame no reply,
but held out the flowers to her in silent answer. Then they sat down and talked of their friends
at home and of the Mayflower, which was to return to England the next day. Priscilla confessed
she felt so lonely and wretched that she wished she could return to England too, and John answered:
"I cannot blame you for that wish. A woman requires someone stronger than herself to lean on,
so I have come to you now with an offer of marriage from a good and true man, Miles Standish,
the Captain of Plymouth."

Not even the Captain himself could have spoken more bluntly than did John, and Priscilla looked
at him in amazement. At length she exclaimed: "If the great Captain of Plymouth is so very
eager to wed me, why does he not come himself and take the trouble to woo me?"

Poor John tried to smooth matters over. Quite forgetful of himself, he pleaded the Captain's
cause, said how kindly, generous, and brave he was, what a splendid soldier and leader, and
added that any woman might be proud to be called the wife of Miles Standish. But all his eloquence
was wasted, for the maiden only looked at him and said smilingly: "Why don't you speak for
yourself, John?"

Here was a pretty pass for an honest man to be in! Joyful to think that Priscilla loved him
and yet saddened for his friend's sake, John left the house and wandered down to the seashore,
undecided what he ought to do in the matter. Suddenly he looked up and saw the shadowy form
of the Mayflower riding at anchor, ready to set sail on the morrow, and he made up his mind
that it was his duty to return to England on the ship.

Strong in his resolution, he returned home and related to the Captain all that had happened.
But when he came to the words Priscilla had spoken, the Captain stamped on the floor and shouted,
angrily: "John Alden, you have betrayed me! We are no longer friends, and there can be nothing
between us henceforth but war and hatred!"

In the midst of his angry words a man came in bringing a message of urgent importance. There
were rumors of danger, threats of war from hostile Indian tribes, and the Captain was summoned
to a council meeting.

Still enraged, the Captain hastened away to the council and found it already assembled and
impatiently waiting his coming. A ferocious-looking Indian was standing by a table on which
lay a rattlesnake's skin filled with arrows; this was the Indians' signal of warfare. The council
was debating whether it would be better to reply to the challenge or try peaceful measures,
but Miles Standish settled the matter without more ado. Advancing to the table, he picked up
the rattlesnake's skin, and with a gesture of contempt jerked the Indian arrows from it. Then
he filled the skin to the brim with powder and bullets and handed it back to the Indian, saying
in a tone of thunder:

"Here, take it! This is your answer!" The savage took the challenge in silence, glided from
the room, and soon disappeared into the recesses of the forest.

Miles Standish returned late from the council and threw himself, dressed as he was, on his
pallet, so that he might be ready to set out at any moment. John Alden was lying awake, but
he was resentful at the Captain's angry words to him and pretended to be asleep. At earliest
dawn Standish awoke and, taking his musket, strode from the room. John Alden yearned to bid
his friend farewell, but his pride would not let him, and he beheld the Captain depart in anger
and spoke no word.

Then he arose, made his own preparations, and went down to the shore. A boat was waiting to
convey him to the ship, but, as he was already standing with one foot on the gunwale, he caught
sight of Priscilla looking at him with a sad and reproachful gaze.

At once his purpose changed. He determined that he would not go away, but would remain and
protect her. The captain of the ship bade farewell to his friends and pushed off his boat.
Not one of all who had set out in the Mayflower returned with her. The pilgrims wished the
captain and his men Godspeed and went back to their life of toil in the new world.

As John turned to depart, Priscilla stood beside him and they spoke together long and earnestly.
She gently reproached John for pleading the cause of another. "I was hurt that you should urge
me to marry Captain Miles Standish, even though he is your friend. I must tell you the truth;
your friendship is more to me than all the love he could offer."

Said John: "Of all your friends, let me be the nearest and dearest, and I promise that I will
be true and faithful to you always."

He would not say more than this, for, although he longed to tell Priscilla of his love for
her, he had vowed not to do so. Loyalty to his absent friend forbade him and he thought to
himself: "I will not speak to Priscilla of this until there is no longer any anger betwixt
Miles Standish and myself."

Meanwhile, Miles Standish was marching steadily northward with a small troop of soldiers led
by their brave Indian guide, Hobomok. After a three days' march they reached an Indian encampment
and saw the women at work by the tents and the warriors sitting round the fire in full war-paint.

When the Indians saw the white men approaching, two of the mightiest warriors sprang up and
came to parley with Standish, offering him a present of furs. Then they spoke through the Indian
interpreter, begging the soldiers for muskets and powder, but when Standish refused and said
he would give them a Bible instead, they changed their tone and began to boast and bluster.
Standish looked keenly round him and became aware of shadowy forms of Indians creeping round
the bushes in ambush, but he feigned not to see them and stood his ground undaunted, listening
calmly to the interpreter's words. But when the Indian chief began to taunt him, his hot blood
rose within him, and, snatching the boaster's knife from him, he stabbed him to the heart.
A flight of arrows immediately poured on the little band from all sides, but they replied with
deadly fire from their guns and after a fierce fight the first victory lay with the white men.

Month after month passed by and Miles Standish continued to scour the land with his forces
till his name became a terror to all the hostile Indian tribes. In the little village of Plymouth
the time passed peacefully on. John Alden built himself a new house, dug a well, and planted
an orchard hard by. As he worked he thought ever of Priscilla and knew that his happiness would
not be complete until he might venture to ask her to share the fruits of his toil.

One day he was sitting with the maiden, awkwardly holding a skein of yarn for her to wind,
when a messenger arrived in frantic haste bringing terrible news from the village. Miles Standish
was dead, shot down by a poisoned arrow as he was leading his men to battle. Remorseful and
yet glad that nothing now stood between him and the fulfillment of his hopes, John Alden turned
to Priscilla and won her ready consent to become his bride.

So one bright summer's day the simple wedding took place according to Puritan custom. Just
as the service was ending, a somber figure clad in steel armor appeared on the threshold. The
bridegroom turned pale at the sight and the bride hid her face on his shoulder. When the last
prayer had been said, the figure strode into the room, and with amazement the people beheld
the Captain of Plymouth whom they had mourned as dead. Grasping the bridegroom's hand Miles
Standish begged his forgiveness, which was gladly granted; he then saluted the bride and a
new bond of friendship was entered into by all three. Full of eager questions the guests then
gathered round the Captain, all speaking at once, till the poor man declared he had far rather
break into an Indian encampment than come to a wedding to which he had not been invited.

When the confusion had at length subsided, John led out his snow-white steer covered with crimson
cloth and with a cushion for a saddle. His wife, he declared, should ride to her home like
a queen, not plod like a peasant. And so the bridal procession set out, Priscilla riding and
John leading her gentle steed. No sad thoughts marred their homecoming, for their friend had
been saved from a cruel death and his kindly words added a crowning joy to their happiness.

Lady Wentworth

One bright summer morning, rather more than a hundred years ago, comely Mistress Stavers stood
with folded arms at her tavern door and watched her husband drive his stage-coach, four-in-hand,
down the long lane and out into the country. Above her head hung the tavern sign--a portrait
of the Earl of Halifax, resplendent in his scarlet coat and flaxen wig. Looking down, he was
struck afresh with the charms of the tavern-keeper's handsome wife, and, though he was in a
somewhat battered condition owing to his advanced age and the extremes of weather to which
he had been exposed, he almost made up his mind to fall at her feet and declare his love.

At that moment, however, his train of thought was interrupted by the vision of a barefooted,
ragged little girl hurrying down the street. In spite of her shabby, mean attire, you could
hardly help noticing how pretty she was, with her rough curly hair falling over her shoulders
and her eyes dancing with laughter; in her hand she carried a brimming pail of water which
dripped on to her little bare feet as she tripped along. Smiles played over the childish face
and rippling sun-beams danced in her pail. The susceptible Earl of Halifax gazed at this picture
with feelings of delight, but Dame Stavers evidently did not approve of it, for the Earl heard
her say, "Fie for shame, Martha Hilton! How dare you go about the town half-dressed and looking
such a sight!" The little gypsy maid laughed and replied saucily, "No matter how I look now.
One day you will see me riding in my own chariot, ma'am."

Dame Stavers was too amazed at the audacity of these words to make any reply, but the Earl
of Halifax smiled kindly at the little maid as she walked on with her heavy burden. When she
reached the corner of the street, she looked back for a moment, then turned and passed out
of sight.

The Earl of Halifax swung for a while on his sign and pondered. His attention was next arrested
by a magnificent carriage rolling rapidly by. Outriders in scarlet liveries bestrode the spirited
horses, whose silver harness glittered brightly in the sun. Within the chariot a dignified
gentleman sat in solitary state. He was a stately personage with powdered hair, wearing a three-cornered
hat and a crimson velvet coat; diamond buckles sparkled at his knees, and in his hand he carried
a gold-headed cane. As the carriage passed the inn, Mistress Stavers dropped several low curtseys,
for this was General Wentworth driving out to his great house, which stood just outside the
town overlooking the sea.

A stately pile standing near the high road but hidden from it by trees, the Governor's house
was indeed a pleasant abode. Within, it was magnificent to behold with its oak floors and carved
chimney-pieces. All through the winter immense fires of logs blazed cheerily on the open hearths,
while portraits of dead and gone Wentworths in heavy gilt frames looked placidly down from
the tapestry-covered walls. Beneath the tapestry were doors which opened unawares and led into
mysterious passages and up queer little flights of stairs.

Here dwelt the great man, Governor Wentworth, but no one shared its comfort with him, for he
was a widower and childless, and though no one ever heard him complain, sometimes he felt his
loneliness very keenly.

At this time Martha Hilton, the pretty little gypsy maid was thirteen years old, and soon after
the day when we met her tripping down the main street of Portsmouth, she went to be a servant
at the house of Governor Wentworth. For seven long years she worked hard and faithfully.

Under her care the mirrors glistened and the brasses shone; the very knocker on the great front
entrance looked brighter whenever she passed by. And all this time, as Martha grew from childhood
into woman-hood, there was someone who watched, unknown to her, all her doings.

Time passed on, bringing with it the Governor's sixtieth birthday, and at the great house it
was determined to give a banquet in honor of the occasion. Invitations were sent out to all
Governor Wentworth's friends in the neighborhood, and when the day arrived, a very noble assemblage
sat down to the feast. At the commencement of the banquet the Reverend Arthur Brown, the rector,
who was seated at the host's right hand, said grace, and then the feast went on merrily. After
the guests had finished eating and the King's health had been drunk, the Governor gave a whispered
message to a man-servant, who disappeared and presently returned with a beautiful girl, simply
and neatly dressed. The guests scarcely noticed her presence, but the Governor stood up in
his place and, looking down at the rector, said: "This is my birthday; it shall also be my
wedding-day, and you shall marry me."

The guests were greatly mystified, and the reverend gentleman not less so, but he answered
politely: "It would indeed be a pleasant task, your Excellency, but may I ask to whom I am
to marry you?" "To this lady," replied the Governor, and beckoned to Martha Hilton to stand
by his side. Blushing and confused the maiden timidly obeyed, but the rector hesitated and
said nothing. Then the Governor cried impatiently: "If you hesitate to do as I ask you, then,
as chief magistrate, I command you."

Seeing that all objections would be useless the rector obeyed, and read the marriage-service
in loud, clear tones. The Governor placed a ring on the fourth finger of the bride's fair left
hand, and Martha Hilton became Lady Wentworth of the Hall.

Thus the saucy boast, which the little gypsy had uttered in jest seven years before, came true,
and when Lady Wentworth drove in her chariot through the main street of Portsmouth none dropped
a lower curtsey than the tavern-keeper's wife. The Earl of Halifax smiled serenely but said
nothing.

ELIZABETH

Elizabeth Haddon, the gentle Quaker maiden, sat one winter evening in her farm-house kitchen,
which served both for kitchen and parlor, and talked to Hannah the housemaid. "How short the
days are," she said, "and how quickly night overtakes us. In the old country there is a long
twilight, but here in the forest is hardly a moment between daylight and lamplight. Yet how
grand winter is with its spotless mantle of snow."

"Oh, yes, winter is beautiful enough," replied Hannah, "and if only we could walk with our
feet on the ceiling like flies, I should not complain. But this great river, the Delaware,
is not crowded with tall sailing vessels like the Thames. Here we see nothing but pine-trees
already flecked with snow. There is snow in the air and to-morrow all the roads will be blocked.
I pity Joseph, who will have to break through the snow-drifts with his sled and oxen, and how
in all the world shall we get to Meeting on First Day (Sunday)?"

Elizabeth gently reproved her talkative servant for grumbling, then rose and put her sewing
away. Meanwhile, Hannah fastened the shutters, spread the cloth, and lighted the lamp. Then
she made the tea and placed on the table a brown loaf and butter fresh from the dairy. As they
partook of their simple meal, Elizabeth said: "Joseph is a long time on his errand. I sent
him to the village with a hamper of food and clothing for the poor. He is a good lad, always
ready and willing."

Hannah smiled with pleasure at her mistress's praise of her fellow servant, and Elizabeth continued:
"This house is a long way from the village, and we should be lonely if it were not for friends
passing by who sometimes stay the night here."

Hannah, who resembled John Gilpin's famous wife in that she had "a frugal mind," did not altogether
approve of what her generous mistress said.

"Many people do indeed pay us a visit," she remarked, "and they treat this house just as if
it were an inn, coming and going exactly as they please."

"All I have is the Lord's, not mine," replied Elizabeth gently. "I am only left here in trust
to distribute His gifts among the poor and those who devote their lives to His service. It
was for this purpose that my father built this house in the clearing, and, though he did not
come here himself, I came in his stead. So we must not grudge to others the crumbs that fall
from our table."

A little ashamed of herself, Hannah was silent for a while, and Elizabeth went on to say in
her gentle voice: "Dost thou remember, Hannah, the great May meeting in London when I was still
a child? No sound was heard in all that great assembly till at length a young man, named John
Estaugh, rose in his place and spoke so powerfully that all hearts were stirred. I cannot tell
why, but to-day there is a strong feeling within me that I shall see him again."

As she finished speaking, a sound of sleigh-bells came nearer and nearer and a sleigh drew
up at the farm-house gate. Joseph had evidently returned from his errand but not alone, for
the voices of two men were heard talking together.

It was very dark in the yard, so Hannah lighted the great tin lantern and went out to give
it to Joseph. Presently she returned, ushering in a tall and youthful stranger, whose cheeks
were aglow from the wintry air. As he entered, Elizabeth advanced to meet him with outstretched
hands, as if he were an expected guest, and said: "Thou art welcome, John Estaugh."

"Dost thou remember me, Elizabeth?" replied the stranger. "It seems a wonderful thing that
after so many years have passed I should find thee again. It was surely the hand of the Lord
which conducted me to thy threshold. As I was on my journey, I saw a wayfarer standing at the
roadside seemingly weary with travel. I greeted the man and offered to take him to his home.
He mounted the sleigh beside me, and on the way he told me of thee and thy homestead. And,
as I remembered thy name and thy father and mother in England, I have paused on my journey
to see thee and wish thee strength in the good work thou art doing."

At that moment Joseph came in carrying the lantern, which he carefully extinguished and hung
on its nail. Then all sat down to supper together, for beneath that roof there was no distinction
of person--they were one family, one household.

When supper was over they drew their chairs to the fire-place and talked, that is, all except
Hannah, who busied herself in clearing the table and making ready the guest-chamber. Then Elizabeth
told John Estaugh how it was that she had come to live on the farm alone, except for her two
faithful servants, secure in the belief that her duty lay here in the desert.

Thus they talked till bed-time, and at daybreak Joseph cleared a pathway through the snow-drifts
and made ready to conduct the stranger to his destination. Elizabeth and John bade each other
farewell at the gate, the latter promising to return for the Meeting in May.

Time went on, till at length the cold winter was at an end and balmy spring came over the land,
bringing the song of birds and covering the earth with flowers. One pleasant morning in May
a long procession of men and women, among them John Estaugh, came riding past on their way
to the Meeting in the neighboring town. On the way they halted at Elizabeth's farm to rest
and partake of the rye bread, currant wine, and honey fresh from the hives, which were offered
to them in generous abundance. Then Elizabeth, Hannah, and Joseph mounted their horses and
prepared to set out with the others, but when they had started, Elizabeth lingered a little
behind and whispered to John, "Tarry a while, for I have something to tell thee which must
not be lightly spoken in the presence of others since it concerns me and thee only."

Slowly they rode through the woods together, and the morning was so bright and fair that it
was a pleasure just to be alive. Then Elizabeth said slowly, as if it were a secret she felt
compelled to reveal, though she would fain have kept it hidden: "I will no longer conceal what
is laid upon me to tell thee; I have received from the Lord a charge to love thee, John Estaugh."

Somewhat surprised at the frank words the maiden had spoken, John made answer: "All thy ways,
thy words and meekness of spirit are indeed pleasant to me, but as yet I have no voice to direct
me in this matter. When the work which the Lord has appointed for me is ended, I will commune
with my own heart and wait for its guidance."

Then Elizabeth said tranquilly: "It is best so. We will not speak further on the matter, but
I had to tell thee this, for to-morrow thou art going away across the sea and I know not when
I shall see thee again. But, if God wills, thou wilt return again to seek me and will find
me still here." And they rode onward in silence to join the others and entered the town in
their company.

Thus Elizabeth and John met and parted once more like "Ships that pass in the night, and speak
to each other in passing." The quiet life in the homestead went on just as it had done before.
Always thoughtful and kind to others, Elizabeth lived and worked on her lonely farm, ever patient
and uncomplaining. And Hannah too, urged by her mistress's example, was never idle; early and
late she was always to be found at work, washing, scouring, or cooking, till her cheeks grew
rosy from her exertions.

She amused herself by teasing Joseph and, though at heart she was really very fond of him,
whenever he attempted to make love to her, she would never listen seriously, but always laugh
at him and make fun of his clumsy devotion. This was quite unlike the way a demure Puritan
maiden should conduct herself, and at times Elizabeth was obliged to chide her housemaid for
her light behavior.

Meanwhile John Estaugh had sailed over the sea bearing in his heart a precious secret. He pondered
over it, till at length it was borne in upon him that his duty might go hand-in-hand with his
inclination, and that even if he accepted this wondrous gift of a true woman's love, he could
also follow in the way he deemed the right one. So he returned from his journey, and on the
first Sabbath Day after his arrival he rose in the silent assembly and holding Elizabeth's
hand, which trembled a little in his strong grasp, he promised, in the presence of the whole
congregation, to be true and kind and faithful in all things to his wife. Such were the simple
marriage rites of Elizabeth Haddon and John Estaugh.

Then honest Joseph, who thus far had not fared over well in his wooing, ventured to urge Hannah
the housemaid to join her lot with his and follow the example of their master and mistress.
But although Hannah still said "Nay," she added: "Thee may make believe and see what comes
of it, Joseph." So I am inclined to think that she did give in after all.

The Monk and the Ass

Once upon a time, some centuries ago, two weary Franciscan monks were wending their way, in
the hot glare of the noonday sun, to their convent, whose white walls and spires gleamed like
a patch of snow on the hillside some distance away.

The first of these monks was named Brother Anthony. He was a spare and silent man, much given
to fasting and prayer. His monk's habit hung in loose folds on his thin body, his hair was
thin and gray, and he stooped wearily as he walked along. A simple soul was the monk Anthony,
accustomed only to listen and obey the commands of others.

Of a very different stamp was his companion, Brother Timothy, large and robust with rosy cheeks
and bristling red hair. He was tall and broad shouldered and his robe fitted tightly round
his portly form. Brother Timothy had ever a jest on his lips, and the more sober monks were
sometimes scandalized at the noise and uproar he created in the convent refectory. Moreover,
it was useless to exhort Timothy to cease jesting and study his Mass-book, for the simple reason
that the jovial monk had never learned to read.

It was a very hot day. The monks' dark robes were covered with dust and torn by briers, and
the two holy men made slow progress owing to the heavy wallets full of provisions which they
were carrying on their backs. Now, as they passed the outskirts of a lonely wood, to their
surprise they beheld an ass tethered to a tree, and blinking lazily at the passers-by. This
donkey was the property of a certain Farmer Gilbert, who had come thither to gather faggots.
He had wandered deep into the forest to collect enough wood, leaving his donkey to rest in
the shade.

No sooner did Brother Timothy catch sight of the patient animal than he cried out: "See, brother,
what a piece of good fortune has befallen us! We will lay our wallets on this creature's back."

This being done, he removed the halter from the ass's neck and proceeded to tether himself
to the same tree where the donkey had been tied. Brother Anthony looked on at these queer doings
in great amazement, which was not lessened when Brother Timothy broke out into a merry peal
of laughter and cried: "Drive the ass before you with your staff to the convent, and, when
you arrive there, tell the brethren that you were obliged to leave me at a farm, as I was worn
out and ill with fever, and that the farmer lent you his ass to carry our heavy wallets, which
are filled with provisions for their use."

Brother Anthony knew quite well that it would be fruitless to try and reason with Brother Timothy
when the latter was bent on playing one of his mad pranks, so he made no reply but obeyed in
silence. Driving the ass before him, he arrived safely with the wallets at the convent and
left his comrade to his fate.

Presently Farmer Gilbert came forth from the wood laden with faggots and stood aghast to see
the ponderous body of the friar fastened to the tree where he had left his ass. Dropping his
load of wood, he stood open-mouthed and trembling and then hastily crossed himself, for he
thought that this was the work of the Evil One.

"Be not amazed," quoth Brother Timothy, "that where you left an ass you should find a poor,
half-starved Franciscan friar. Set me free and you shall hear my piteous story."

With shaking fingers the farmer unloosed the rope, and the monk continued: "Although I wear
the garb of a holy friar, I am a sinful man. You imagine you have owned an ass, but it was
myself, transformed into this shape for the deadly sin of gluttony, and condemned to do penance
by feeding on grass and being beaten and starved by your household. Think of the miserable
life I have endured, the windy shed which was my home, and the damp and musty straw which formed
my bed; my scanty food was given me grudgingly and I have patiently endured toil and blows.
But to-day my penance is at an end and I begin life as a monk again."

Simple Farmer Gilbert was conscience-stricken at hearing such words as these, and, falling
on his knees before the friar, implored his pardon. The deceitful monk, rejoiced to think that
his tale had been so readily believed, generously forgave the farmer for his past conduct,
and even consented to be his guest for the night as it was getting late and he stood in need
of rest.

The farmer led his guest to his humble white-washed cottage, which stood on a hillside covered
with fruitful olive trees. Drawing near, they found the farmer's wife, comely Dame Cicely,
his children, and his old father waiting the return of the master of the house, and, when the
monk's wonderful tale was told anew, they were no less penitent and amazed than the farmer
himself had been. Deeply they grieved over the harsh treatment the holy man had endured at
their hands, and, poor as they were, set about forthwith to prepare a grand supper to satisfy
Brother Timothy's hunger after such a long and rigid fast. The good wife killed her last two
fowls, and made them into a salad; then she brought out her best wine and begged her honored
guest to fall to.

Brother Timothy played his part well. He ate and drank as though he had been starving for a
twelve-month, and, all the while, he talked and laughed without stopping and wagged his red
beard, till at length the farmer grew angry with his guest and ventured to reprove him in good
round terms.

"Good father," said he, "it is easy to see that for some persons punishment is right and needful.
The manner in which you have behaved to-night after your long penance clearly proves that you
have but little strength against temptation and shows in what peril you stand of relapsing
into your deadly sin of greediness. Take my advice; return to your convent at sunrise to-morrow
and there repent, fast and scourge yourself, for you are in great danger of becoming an ass
again. Be wise and remain here no longer, or else I may be tempted to use the whip to you,
and I should not deal so lightly with you as you would with yourself."

Brother Timothy had the grace to blush deeply at this well-deserved reproof, but wisely made
no reply, and soon the whole household sought their beds. The next morning they awoke at sunrise,
at the hour when the cock should have crowed, only, as you know, they had eaten him for supper
the previous evening. The monk, who had recovered his good spirits, rose betimes, and, having
breakfasted, set out in haste, for he heard the distant matin bell ringing from the convent
and so made his leave-taking a very brief one.

It was a balmy summer morning, filled with the song of birds and the subdued lowing of cattle;
the beautiful Italian countryside looked its loveliest, but Brother Timothy cared naught for
all this. His thoughts were concerned only with his own affairs, and it was not till the convent
walls appeared before him that he quickened his steps and began to take an interest in what
was going on.

As he entered the convent gate, he saw the ass standing patiently there just as he had found
him in the wood. Brother Timothy at once hastened to the Abbot and, after telling him a plausible
tale of sickness and weariness which had prevented him from returning to the convent on the
previous day, he went on to explain that the ass had been sent as a present to the Brotherhood;
the owner, who was a wealthy man, had bestowed it on the convent, so that it might ease the
poor monks from always carrying such heavy burdens on their journeys to the neighboring village.

