THE DECAY OF THE TEETH [Footnote: Unlike the other portions of the body, there is no provision
made for any change in the permanent teeth. That part, however, which is thus during life most
liable to change, after death resists it the longest. In deep-sea dredgings teeth are found
when all traces of the frame to which they belonged have disappeared. Yet hard and incorruptible
as they seem, their permanence is only relative. Exposed to injury and disease, they break
or decay. Even if they escape accident, they yet wear at the crown, are absorbed at the fang,
and, in time, drop out, thus affording another of the many signs of the limitations Providence
has fixed to the endurance of our bodies and the length of our lives.] is commonly caused (1)
by portions of the food which become entangled between them, and, on account of the heat and
moisture, quickly decompose; and (2) by the saliva, as it evaporates, leaving on the teeth
a sediment, which we call tartar. This collects organic matter that rapidly changes, and also
affords a soil in which a sort of fungus speedily springs up. From both these causes, the breath
becomes offensive, and the teeth are injured.

PRESERVATION OF THE TEETH.--Children should early be taught to brush their teeth at least every
morning with tepid water, and twice a week with white castile soap and powdered orris root,
or with some dentifrice recommended by a responsible dentist. They should also be instructed
to remove the particles of food from between the teeth, after each meal, by means of a quill
or wooden toothpick.

The enamel once injured is never restored, and the whole interior of the tooth is exposed to
decay. We should not, therefore, crack hard nuts, bite thread, or use metal toothpicks, gritty
tooth powders, or any acid which "sets the teeth on edge," i. e.. that acts upon the enamel.
It is well also to have the teeth examined yearly by a dentist, that any small orifice may
be filled, and further decay prevented.

V. THE GLANDS OF THE SKIN.

1. THE OIL GLANDS are clusters of tiny sacs which secrete an oil that flows along the duct
to the root of the hair, and thence oozes out on the cuticle (Fig. 24). [Footnote: This secretion
is said to vary in different persons, and on that account the dog is enabled to trace his master
by the scent.] This is nature's efficient hair-dressing, and also keeps the skin soft and flexible.
These glands are not usually found where there is no hair, as on the palm of the hand, and
hence at those points only can water readily soak through the skin into the body. They are
of considerable size on the face, especially about the nose. When obstructed, their contents
become hard and dark-colored, and are vulgarly called "worms." [Footnote: Though they are not
alive, yet, under the microscope, they are sometimes found to contain a curious parasite, called
the pimple mite, which is supposed to consume the superabundant secretion.]

II. THE PERSPIRATORY GLANDS are fine tubes about 1/300 of an inch in diameter, and a quarter
of an inch in length, which run through the cutis, and then coil up in little balls (Fig. 24).
They are found in all parts of the body, and in almost incredible numbers. In the palm of the
hand, there are about two thousand eight hundred in a single square inch. On the back of the
neck and trunk, where they are fewest, there are yet four hundred to the square inch. The total
number on the body of an adult is estimated at about two and a half million. If they were laid
end to end, they would extend nearly ten miles. [Footnote: The current statement, that they
would extend twenty-eight miles, is undoubtedly an exaggeration. Krause estimates the total
number at 2,381,248, and the length of each coil, when unraveled, at 1/10 of an inch, which
would make the total length much less than even the statement in the text. Seguin states that
the proportion of impurities thrown off by the skin and the lungs, is eleven to seven.] The
mouths of these glands--"pores," as we commonly call them--may be seen with a pocket lens along
the fine ridges which cover the palm of the hand.

THE PERSPIRATION.--From these openings, there constantly passes a vapor, forming what we call
the insensible perspiration. Exercise or heat causes it to flow more freely, when it condenses
on the surface in drops. The perspiration consists of about ninety-nine parts water, and one
part solid matter. The amount varies greatly, but on the average is, for an adult, not far
from two pounds per day. Any suppression of this constant drainage will lead to disagreeable
and even dangerous results. If it be entirely and permanently checked, death will inevitably
ensue. [Footnote: Once, on an occasion of great solemnity at Rome, a child was, it is said,
completely covered with gold leaf, closely applied to the skin, so as to represent, according
to the idea of that age, the golden glory of an angel or seraph. In a few hours, after contributing
to this pageant, the child died; the cause being suffocation, from stopping the exhalation
of the skin; although, in the ignorance of the common people of those days, the death was attributed
to the anger of the Deity, and looked upon as a circumstance of evil omen.]

THE ABSORBING POWER OF THE SKIN.--We have already described two uses of the skin: (1) Its protective,
(2) its exhaling, and now we come to (3) its absorbing power. This is not so noticeable as
the others, and yet it can be illustrated. Persons frequently poison their hands with the common
wood ivy. Contagious diseases are taken by touching a patient, or even his clothing, especially
if there be a crack in the cuticle. [Footnote: If one is called upon to handle a dead body,
it is well, especially if the person has died of a contagious disease, to rub the hand with
lard or olive oil. Poisonous matter has been fatally absorbed through the breaking of the cuticle
by a hangnail, or a simple scratch. There is a story that Bonaparte, when a lieutenant of artillery,
in the heat of battle, seized the rammer and worked the gun of an artilleryman who had fallen.
From the wood which the soldier had used, Bonaparte absorbed a poison that gave him a skin
disease, by which he was annoyed the remainder of his life.] Painters absorb so much lead through
the pores of their hands that they are attacked with colic. [Footnote: Cosmetics, hair dyes,
etc., are exceedingly injurious, not only because they tend to fill the pores of the skin,
but because they often contain poisonous matters that may be absorbed into the system, especially
if they are in a solution.] Snuff and lard are frequently rubbed on the chest of a child suffering
with the croup, to produce vomiting. It is said that seamen in want of water drench their clothing
in salt spray, when the skin will absorb enough moisture to quench thirst (see Lymphatic System).

By carefully conducted experiments, it has been found that the skin acts in the same way as
the lungs (see Respiration) in absorbing oxygen from the air, and giving off carbonic acid
to a small but appreciable amount. Indeed, the skin has not inaptly been styled the third lung.
Hence, the importance of absolute cleanliness and a frequent ablution of the entire body.

VI. HYGIENE.

HINTS ABOUT WASHING AND BATHING.--The moment of rising from bed is the proper time for the
full wash or bath with which one should commence the day. The body is then warm, and can endure
moderately cold water better than at any other time; it is relaxed, and needs bracing; and
the nerves, deadened by the night's repose, require a gentle stimulus. If the system be strong
enough to resist the shock, cold water is the most invigorating; if not, a tepid bath will
answer. [Footnote: Many persons have not the conveniences for a bath. To them, the following
plan, which the author has daily employed for years, is commended. The necessities are: a basin
full of soft water, a mild soap, a large sponge or a piece of flannel, and two towels--one
soft, the other rough. The temperature of the water should vary with the season of the year--cold
in summer and tepid in winter. Rub quickly the entire body with the wet sponge or flannel.
(If more agreeable, wash and wipe only a part at a time, protecting the rest in cold weather
with portions of clothing.) Dry the skin gently with a soft towel, and when quite dry, with
the rough towel or flesh brush rub the body briskly four or five minutes till the skin is all
aglow. The chest and abdomen need the principal rubbing. The roughness of the towel should
be accommodated to the condition of the skin. Enough friction, however, must be given to produce
at least a gentle warmth, indicative of the reaction necessary to prevent subsequent chill
or languor. An invalid will find it exceedingly beneficial if a stout, vigorous person produce
the reaction by rubbing with the hands.]

Before dressing, the whole body should be thoroughly rubbed with a coarse towel or flesh brush.
At first, the friction may be unpleasant, but this sensitiveness will soon be overcome, and
the keenest pleasure be felt in the lively glow which follows. A bath should not be taken just
before nor immediately after a meal, as it will interfere with the digestion of the food. Soap
should be employed occasionally, but its frequent use tends to make the skin dry and hard.

REACTION.--After taking a cold bath, there should be a prompt reaction. When the surface is
chilled by cold water, the blood sets to the heart and other vital organs, exciting them to
more vigorous action, and then, being thrown back to the surface, it reddens, warms, and stimulates
the skin to an unwonted degree. This is called the reaction, and in it lies the invigorating
influence of the cold bath. When, on the contrary, the skin is heated by a hot bath, the blood
is drawn to the surface, less blood goes to the heart, the circulation decreases, and languor
ensues. A dash of cold water is both necessary and refreshing at the close of a hot bath. [Footnote:
The Russians are very fond of vapor baths, taken in the following manner. A large room is heated
by stoves. Red-hot stones being brought in, water is thrown upon them, filling the room with
steam. The bathers sit on benches until they perspire profusely, when they are rubbed with
soapsuds and dashed with cold water. Sometimes, while in this state of excessive perspiration,
they run out of doors and leap into snow banks.]

If, after a cold bath, there be felt no glow of warmth, but only a chilliness and depression,
we are thereby warned that either proper means were not taken to bring on this reaction, or
that the circulation is not vigorous enough to make such a bath beneficial. The general effect
of a cool bath is exhilarating, and that of a warm one depressing. [Footnote: The sudden plunge
into a cold bath is good for the strong and healthy, but too severe for the delicate. One should
always wet first the face, neck, and chest. It is extremely injurious to stand in a bath with
only the feet and the lower limbs covered by the water, for the blood is thus sent from the
extremities to the heart and internal organs, and they become so burdened that reaction may
be out of their power. A brisk walk, or a thorough rubbing of the skin, before a cold bath
or swim, adds greatly to its value and pleasure.] Hence the latter should not ordinarily be
taken oftener than once a week, while the former may be enjoyed daily. (See p. 289.)

SEA BATHING is exceedingly stimulating, on account of the action of the salt and the exciting
surroundings. Twenty minutes is the utmost limit for bathing or swimming in salt or fresh water.
A chilly sensation should be the signal for instant removal. It is better to leave while the
glow and buoyancy which follow the first plunge are still felt. Gentle exercise after a bath
is beneficial.

CLOTHING in winter, to keep us warm, should repel the external cold and retain the heat of
the body. In summer, to keep us cool, it should not absorb the rays of the sun, and should
permit the passage of the heat of the body. At all seasons, it should be porous, to give ready
escape to the perspiration, and a free admission of air to the skin. We can readily apply these
essential conditions to the different kinds of clothing.

Linen is soft to the touch, and is a good conductor of heat. Hence it is pleasant for summer
wear, but, being apt to chill the surface too rapidly, it should not be worn next the skin.

Cotton is a poorer conductor of heat and absorber of moisture, and is therefore warmer than
linen. It is sufficiently cool for summer wear, and affords better protection against sudden
changes.

Woolen absorbs moisture slowly, and contains much air in its pores. It is therefore a poor
conductor of heat, and guards the wearer against the vicissitudes of our climate.

The outer clothing may be adapted largely to ornament, and may be varied to suit our fancy
and the requirements of society. The underclothing should always be sufficient to keep us warm.
Woolen should be worn next the skin at all times; light gossamer garments in the heat of summer,
and warm, porous flannels in midwinter.

Light-colored clothing is not only cooler in summer, but warmer in winter. As the warmth of
clothing depends greatly on the amount of air contained in its fibers, fine, loose, porous
cloth with a plenty of nap is best for winter wear. Firm and heavy goods are not necessarily
the warmest. Furs are the perfection of winter clothing, since they combine warmth with lightness.
Two light woolen garments are warmer than one heavy one, as there is between them a layer of
nonconducting air.

All the body except the head should be equally protected by clothing. Whatever fashion may
dictate, no part covered to-day can be uncovered tonight or to-morrow, except at the peril
of health. It is a most barbarous and cruel custom to leave the limbs of little children unprotected,
when adults would shiver at the very thought of exposure. Equally so is it for children to
be thinly clad for the purpose of hardening them. To go shivering with cold is not the way
to increase one's power of endurance. The system is made more vigorous by exercise and food;
not by exposure. In winter, we should wear warm shoes with thick soles, and rubbers when it
is damp. At night, and after exercise, we require extra clothing. (See p. 295.)

DISEASES, ETC.--l. Erysipelas is an inflammation (see Inflammation) of the skin, and often
begins in a spot not larger than a pin head, which spreads with great rapidity. It is very
commonly checked by the application of a solution of iodine. The burning and contracting sensation
may be relieved by cloths wrung out of hot water.

2. Eczema (Salt Rheum, etc.) is of constitutional origin. It is characterized by an itching,
burning, reddened eruption, in which a serous discharge exudes and dries into crusts or scales.
The skin thickens in patches, and painful fissures are formed, which are irritated by exposure
to air or water. Eczema denotes debility. It occurs in various forms, and, like erysipelas,
should be treated by a physician.

3. Corns are thickened cuticle, caused by pressure or friction. They most frequently occur
on the feet; but are produced on the shoemaker's knee by constant hammering, and on the soldier's
shoulder by the rubbing of his musket. This hard portion irritates the sensitive cutis beneath,
and so causes pain. A corn will soften in hot water, when it may be pared with a sharp knife.
If the cause be removed, the corn will not return.

4. Ingrowing Nails are caused by pressure, which forces the edge of the toe nail into the flesh.
They may be cured by carefully cutting away the part which has mal-grown, and then scraping
the back of the nail till it is thin, making a small incision in the center, at the top. The
two portions, uniting, will draw away the nail from the flesh at the edge. Ingrowing nails
may be prevented by wearing broad-toed shoes.

5. Warts are overgrown papille (Fig. 24). They may generally be removed by the application
of glacial acetic acid, or a drop of nitric acid, repeated until the entire structure is softened.
Care must be taken to keep the acid from touching the neighboring skin. The capricious character
of warts has given rise to the popular delusion concerning the influence of charms upon them.

6. Chilblain is a local inflammation affecting generally the feet, the hands, or the lobes
of the ear. Liability to it usually passes away with manhood. It is not caused by "freezing
the feet," as many suppose, though attacks are brought on, or aggravated, by exposure to cold,
followed by sudden warming. Chilblain is subject to daily congestion (see Congestion), manifested
by itching, soreness, etc., commonly occurring at night. The best preventive is a uniform temperature,
and careful protection against the cold by warm clothing, especially for the feet.

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. If a hair be plucked out, will another grow in its place?

2. What causes the hair to "stand on end" when we are frightened?

3. Why is the skin roughened by riding in the cold?

4. Why is the back of a washerwoman's hand less water-soaked than the palm?

5. What would be the length of the perspiratory tubes in a single square inch of the palm,
if placed end to end?

6. What colored clothing is best adapted to all seasons?

7. What is the effect of paint and powder on the skin?

8. Is waterproof clothing healthful for constant wear?

9. Why are rubbers cold to the feet?

10. Why does the heat seem oppressive when the air is moist?

11. Why is friction of the skin invigorating after a cold bath?

12. Why does the hair of domestic animals become roughened in winter?

13. Why do fowls spread their feathers before they perch for the night?

14. How can an extensive burn produce congestion of the lungs?

15. Why do we perspire so profusely after drinking cold water?

16. How can we best prevent skin diseases, colds, and rheumatism?

17. What causes the difference between the hard hand of a blacksmith and the soft hand of a woman?

18. Why should a painter avoid getting paint on the palm of his hand?

19. Why should we not use the soap or the soiled towel at a hotel?

20. Which teeth cut like a pair of scissors?

21. Which teeth cut like a chisel?

22. Which should be clothed the warmer, a merchant or a farmer? 23. Why should we not crack
nuts with our teeth?

24. Do the edges of the upper and the lower teeth meet?

25. When fatigued, would you take a cold bath?

26. Why is the outer surface of a kid glove finer than the inner?

27. Why will a brunette endure the sun's rays better than a blonde?

28. Does patent leather form a healthful covering for the feet?

29. Why are men more frequently bald than women?

30. On what part of the head does baldness commonly occur? Why?

31. What does the combination in our teeth of canines and grinders suggest as to the character
of our food?

32. Is a staid, formal promenade suitable exercise?

33. Is there any danger in changing the warm clothing of our daily wear for the thin one of
a party?

34. Should we retain our overcoat, shawl, or furs when we come into a warm room?

35. Which should bathe the oftener, students or outdoor laborers?

36. Is abundant perspiration injurious?

37. How often should the ablution of the entire body be performed?

38. Why is cold water better than warm, for our daily ablution?

39. Why should our clothing always fit loosely?

40. Why should we take special pains to avoid clothing that is colored by poisonous dyestuffs?
(See p. 296.)

41. What general principles should guide us as to the length and frequency of baths In salt
or fresh water?

42. What is the beneficial effect of exercise upon the functions of the skin?

43. How can we best show our admiration and respect for the human body?

44. Why is the scar of a severe wound upon a negro sometimes white?

IV.

RESPIRATION AND THE VOICE.

ANALYSIS OF RESPIRATION AND THE VOICE.

| 1. The Larnyx.                      
                       | 2. The Vocal Cords.
| 1. ORGANS OF VOICE.....| 3. Different Tones of Voice.
|                        | 4. Speech.
|                        |5. Formation of Vocal Sounds.
|                         
|                        | 1. The Trachea.
|                        | 2. The Bronchial Tubes.
| 2. ORGANS OF RESPIRA-  | 3. The Cells.
|           TION.........| 4. The Lung Wrapping.
|                        |5. The Cilia.
|                         
|                        | 1. Inspiration.
| 3. HOW WE BREATHE......|2. Expiration.
|                         
|                        | 1. Sighing.
|                        | 2. Coughing.
|                        | 3. Sneezing.
| 4. MODIFICATIONS OF    | 4. Snoring.
|       THE BREATH.......| 5. Laughing, and Crying.
|                        | 6. Hiccough.
|                        |7. Yawning.
|
| 5. CAPACITY OF THE LUNGS.
|                         
|                        | 1. The Need of Air.
|                        | 2. Action of Air in the Lungs.
|                        | 3. Tests of the Breath.
|                        | 4. Analysis of Expired Air.
|                        | 5. Effect of Rebreathed Air.
|                        |                
| 6. HYGIENE.............|               | a. The Sources of
|                        |               |         Impurity.
|                        |               | b. The Sick Room.
|                        | 6. Concerning | c. The Sitting Room.
|                        |   the Need of | d. The Bedroom.
|                        |  Ventilation.| e. The Church.
|                                        | f. The Schoolroom.
|                                        | g. How we should
|                                        |        Ventilate.
|
| 7. THE WONDERS OF RESPIRATION.
|                         
|                        | 1. Constriction of the Lungs.
|                        | 2. Bronchitis.
|                        | 3. Pleurisy.
|                        | 4. Pneumonia.
|8. DISEASES............| 5. Consumption
| 6. Asphyxia.
| 7. Diptheria.
| 8. Croup.
|9. Stammering.

RESPIRATION AND THE VOICE.

The Organs of Respiration and the Voice are the larynx, the trachea, and the lungs.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE VOICE.--l. The Larynx.--In the neck, is a prominence sometimes
called Adam's apple. It is the front of the larynx. This is a small triangular, cartilaginous
box, placed just below the root of the tongue, and at the top of the windpipe. The opening
into it from the throat is called the glottis; and the cover, the epiglottis (epi, upon; glotta,
the tongue). The latter is a spoon-shaped lid, which opens when we breathe, but, by a nice
arrangement, shuts when we try to swallow, and so lets our food slip over it into the oesophagus
(e-sof'-a-gus), the tube leading from the pharynx to the stomach (Fig. 27).

If we laugh or talk when we swallow, our food is apt to "go the wrong way," i. e., little particles
pass into the larynx, and the tickling sensation which they produce forces us to cough in order
to expel the intruders.

2. The Vocal Cords.--On each side of the glottis are the so- called vocal cords. They are not
really cords, but merely elastic membranes projecting from the sides of the box across the
opening. [Footnote: The cartilages and vocal cords may be readily seen in the larynx of an
ox or sheep. If the flesh be cut off, the cartilages will dry, and will keep for years.] When
not in use, they spread apart and leave a V-shaped orifice (Fig. 28), through which the air
passes to and from the lungs. If the cords are tightened, the edges approach sometimes within
1/100 of an inch of each other, and, being thrown into vibration, cause corresponding vibrations
in the current of air. Thus sound is produced in the same manner as by the vibrations of the
tongues of an accordion, or the strings of a violin, only in this case the strings are scarcely
an inch long.

FIG. 27.

DIFFERENT TONES OF THE VOICE.--The higher tones of the voice are produced when the cords are
short, tight, and closely in contact; the lower, by the opposite conditions. Loudness is regulated
by the quantity of air and force of expulsion. A falsetto voice is thought to be the result
of a peculiarity in the pharynx (Fig. 27) at the back part of the nose; it is more probably
produced by some muscular maneuver not yet fully understood. When boys are about fourteen years
of age, the larynx enlarges, and the cords grow proportionately longer and coarser; hence,
the voice becomes deeper, or, as we say, "changes." The peculiar harshness of the voice at
this time seems to be due to a congestion of the mucous membrane of the cords. The change may
occur very suddenly, the voice breaking in a single night.

FIG. 28.

Speech is voice modulated by the lips, tongue, [Footnote: The tongue is styled the "unruly
member," and held responsible for all the tattling of the world; but when the tongue is removed,
the adjacent organs in some way largely supply the deficiency, so that speech is still possible.
Huxley describes the conversation of a man who had two and one half inches of his tongue preserved
in spirits, and yet could converse intelligibly. Only the two letters t and d were beyond his
power; the articulation of these involves the employment of the tip of the tongue; hence, "tin"
he converted into "fin," and "dog" into "thog."] palate, and teeth. [Footnote: An artificial
larynx may be made by using elastic bands to represent the vocal cords, and by placing above
them chambers which by their resonance will produce the same effect as the cavities lying above
the larynx. An artificial speaking machine was constructed by Kempelen, which could pronounce
such sentences as, "I love you with all my heart," in different languages, by simply touching
the proper keys.] Speech and voice are commonly associated, but speech may exist without the
voice, for when we whisper we articulate the words, although there is no vocalization, i. e.,
no action of the larynx. [Footnote: We can observe this by placing the hand on the throat,
and noticing the absence of vibrations when we whisper, and their presence when we talk. The
difference between vocalization and non-vocalization is seen in a sigh and a groan, the latter
being the former vocalized. Whistling is a pure mouth sound, and does not depend on the voice.
Laughter is vocal, being the aspirated vowels, a, e, or o, convulsively repeated.] (See p. 297.)

FIG. 29.

FORMATION OF VOCAL SOUNDS.--The method of modulating voice into speech may be seen by producing
the pure vowel sounds a, e, etc., from one expiration, the mouth being kept open while the
form of the aperture is changed for each vowel by the tongue and the lips. H is only an explosion,
or forcible throwing of a vowel sound from the mouth. [Footnote: When, in sounding a vowel,
the sound coincides with a sudden change in the position of the vocal cords from one of divergence
to one of approximation, the vowel is pronounced with the spiritus asper. When the vocal cords
are brought together before the blast of air begins, the vowel is pronounced with the spiritus
lenis.--FOSTER.]

The consonants, or short sounds, may also be made without interrupting the current of air,
by various modifications of the vocal organs. In sounding singly any one of the letters, we
can detect its peculiar requirements. Thus m and n can be made only by blocking the air in
the mouth and sending it through the nose; l lets the air escape at the sides of the tongue;
r needs a vibratory movement of the tongue; b and p stop the breath at the lips; k and g (hard),
at the back of the palate. Consonants like b and d are abrupt, or, like l and s, continuous.
Those made by the lips are termed labials; those by pressing the tongue against the teeth,
dentals; those by the tongue, linguals.

The child gains speech slowly, first learning to pronounce the vowel a, the consonants b, m,
and p, and then their unions --ba, ma, pa.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION.--Beneath the larynx is the windpipe, or trachea (see
Fig. 29), so called because of its roughness. It is strengthened by C-shaped cartilages with
the openings behind, where they are attached to the oesophagus. At the lower end, the trachea
divides into two branches, called the right and left bronchi. These subdivide in the small
bronchial tubes, which ramify through the lungs like the branches of a tree, the tiny twigs
of which at last end in clusters of cells so small that there are six hundred million in all.
This cellular structure renders the lungs exceedingly soft, elastic, and sponge-like. [Footnote:
The lungs of slaughtered animals are vulgarly called "lights," probably on account of their
lightness. They are similar in structure to those of man. They will float on water, and if
a small piece be forcibly squeezed between the fingers (notice the creaking sound it gives),
it will retain sufficient air to make it buoyant.]

FIG. 30.

The stiff, cartilaginous rings, so noticeable in the rough surface of the trachea and the bronchi,
disappear as we reach the smaller bronchial tubes, so that while the former are kept constantly
open for the free admission of air, the latter are provided with elastic fibers by which they
may be almost closed.

WRAPPING OF THE LUNGS.--The lungs are invested with a double covering--the pleura--one layer
being attached to the lungs and the other to the walls of the chest. It secretes a fluid which
lubricates it, so that the layers glide upon each other with perfect ease. [Footnote: These
pleural sacs are distinct and closed; hence, when the ribs are raised, a partial vacuum being
formed in the sacs, air rushes in, and distends the pulmonary lobules.] The lungs are lined
with mucous membrane, exceedingly delicate and sensitive to the presence of anything except
pure air. We have all noticed this when we have breathed any thing offensive.

FIG. 31.

THE CILIA.--Along the air passages are minute filaments (cilia, Fig. 32), which are in constant
motion, like a field of grain stirred by a gentle breeze. They serve to fan the air in the
lungs, and produce an outward current, which is useful in catching dust and fine particles
swept inward with the breath.

HOW WE BREATHE.--Respiration consists of two acts--taking in the air, or inspiration, and expelling
the air, or expiration.

FIG. 32.

1. Inspiration.--When we draw in a full breath, we straighten the spine and throw the head
and shoulders back, so as to give the greatest advantage to the muscles. [Footnote: If we examine
the bony cage of the thorax or chest in Fig. 8, we shall see that the position of the ribs
may alter its capacity in two ways.

1. As they run obliquely downward from the spine, if the sternum or breastbone be lifted in
front, the diameter of the chest will be increased.

2. The ribs are fastened by elastic cartilages, which stretch as the muscles that lift the
ribs contract, and so increase the breadth of the chest.]

At the same time, the diaphragm [Footnote: The diaphragm is the muscular partition between
the chest and the abdomen. It is always convex toward the former, and concave toward the latter
(Fig. 31). Long muscular fibers extend from its center toward the ribs in front and the spine
at the back. When these contract, they depress and flatten the diaphragm; when they relax,
it becomes convex again. In the former case, the bowels are pressed downward and the abdomen
pushed outward; in the latter, the bowels spring upward, and the abdomen is drawn inward.]
descends and presses the walls of the abdomen outward. Both these processes increase the size
of the chest. Thereupon, the elastic lungs expand to occupy the extra space, while the air,
rushing in through the windpipe, pours along the bronchial tubes and crowds into every cell.
[Footnote: It is said that in drawing a full breath, the muscles exert a force equal to raising
a weight of seven hundred and fifty pounds. When we are about to make a great effort, as in
striking a heavy blow, we naturally take a deep inspiration, and shut the glottis. The confined
air makes the chest tense and firm, and enables us to exert a greater force. As we let slip
the blow, the glottis opens and the air escapes, often with a curious aspirated sound as is
noticeable in workmen. To make a good shot with a rifle, we should take aim with a full chest
and tight breath, since then the arms will have a steadier support.]

2. Expiration.--When we forcibly expel the air from our lungs, the operation is reversed. We
bend forward, draw in the walls of the abdomen, and press the diaphragm upward, while the ribs
are pulled downward,--all together diminishing the size of the chest, and forcing the air outward.

Ordinary, quiet breathing is performed mainly by the diaphragm,--one breath to every four beats
of the heart, or eighteen per minute. (See p. 299.)

MODIFICATIONS OF THE BREATH.--Sighing is merely a prolonged inspiration followed by an audible
expiration. Coughing is a violent expiration in which the air is driven through the mouth.
Sneezing differs from coughing, the air being forced through the nose. Snoring is produced
by the passage of the breath through the pharynx when the tongue and soft palate are in certain
positions. [Footnote: The soft palate must have fallen back in such a manner as nearly or quite
to close the entrance to the nasal cavity from the throat, and the tongue must also be thrown
back so far as to leave only a narrow opening between it and the soft palate. The noise is
produced by the air being forced either inward or outward through this opening. A snore results
also when, with a closed mouth, the air is forced between the soft palate and the back wall
of the pharynx into the nasal cavity. With deep breathing, perhaps accompanied by a variation
in the position of the soft palate, a rattling noise may be heard in addition to the snoring,
which is due to a vibration of the soft palate.--F. A. FERNALD, in "How we Sneeze, Laugh, Stammer,
and Sigh."--Popular Science Monthly, Feb., 1884.] Laughing and crying are very much alike.
The expression of the face is necessary to distinguish between them. The sounds are produced
by short, rapid contractions of the diaphragm. Hiccough is confined to inspiration. It is caused
by a contraction of the diaphragm and a constriction of the glottis; the current of air just
entering, as it strikes the closed glottis, gives rise to the well-known sound. Yawning, or
gaping, is like sighing. [Footnote: The usefulness of a yawn lies in bringing up the arrears,
as it were, of respiration, when it has fallen behindhand, either through fatigue or close
attention to other occupation. The stretching of the jaws and limbs may also serve to equalize
the nervous influence, certain muscles having become uneasy on account of being stretched or
contracted for a long time.] It is distinguished by a wide opening of the mouth and a deep,
profound inspiration. Both processes furnish additional air, and therefore probably meet a
demand of the system for more oxygen. Frequently, however, they are like laughing, sobbing,
etc., merely a sort of contagion, which runs through an audience, and seems almost irresistible.

THE CAPACITY OF THE LUNGS.--If we take a deep inspiration, and then forcibly exhale all the
air we can expel from the lungs, this amount, which is termed the breathing capacity, will
bear a very close correspondence to our stature. For a man of medium height (five feet eight
inches) it will be about two hundred and thirty cubic inches, [Footnote: Of this amount, one
hundred cubic inches can be forced in only by an extra effort, and is available for emergencies,
or for purposes of training, as in singing, climbing, etc. It is of great importance, since,
if the capacity of the lungs only equaled our daily wants, the least obstruction would prove
fatal.] or a gallon, and for each inch of height between five and six feet there will be an
increase of eight cubic inches. In addition, it is found that the lungs contain about one hundred
cubic inches which can not be expelled, thus making their entire contents about three hundred
and thirty cubic inches, or eleven pints. The extra amount always on hand in the lungs is of
great value, since thereby the action of the air goes on continuously, even during a violent
expiration. In ordinary breathing, only about twenty or thirty cubic inches (less than a pint)
of air pass in and out.

THE NEED OF AIR.--The body needs food, clothing, sunshine, bathing, and. drink; but none of
these wants is so pressing as that for air. The other demands may be met by occasional supplies,
but air must be furnished every moment or we die. Now the vital element of the atmosphere is
oxygen gas. [Footnote: See "Steele's Popular Chemistry," p. 30. The atmosphere consists of
one fifth oxygen and four fifths nitrogen. The former is the active element; and the latter,
the passive. Oxygen alone would be too stimulating, and must be restrained by the neutral nitrogen.
Separately, either element of the air would kill us.] This is a stimulating, life- giving principle.
No tonic will so invigorate as a few full, deep breaths of cold, pure air. Every organ will
glow with the energy of the fiery oxygen.

ACTION OF THE AIR IN THE LUNGS.--In the delicate cells of the lungs, the air gives up its oxygen
to the blood, and receives in turn carbonic-acid [Footnote: More properly Carbon dioxide.]
gas and water, foul with waste matter which the blood has picked up in its circulation through
the body. The blood, thus purified and laden with the inspiring oxygen, goes bounding through
the system, while the air we exhale carries off the impurities. In this process, the blood
changes from purple to red. If we examine our breath, we can readily see what it has removed
from the blood.

TESTS OF THE BREATH.--1. Breathe into a jar, and on lowering into it a lighted candle, the
flame will be instantly extinguished; thus indicating the presence of carbonic-acid gas. 2.
Breathe upon a mirror, and a film of moisture will show the vapor. [Footnote: There is a close
relation between the functions of the skin, the lungs, and the kidneys--the scavengers of the
body. They all carry off water from the blood, and when the function of one of the three is,
in this respect, interfered with, the others are called upon to perform its functions. When
the function of perspiration is deranged, the lungs and kidneys are required to perform heavier
duty, and this may lead to disease (see p. 62).] 3. If breath be confined in a bottle, the
animal matter will decompose and give off an offensive odor.

ANALYSIS OF THE EXPIRED AIR shows that it has lost about twenty-five per cent of its oxygen,
and gained an equal amount of carbonic-acid gas, besides moisture, and organic impurities.
Our breath, then, is air robbed of its vitality, and containing in its place a gas as fatal
to life [Footnote: Carbonic-acid gas can not be breathed when undiluted, as the glottis closes
and forbids its passage into the lungs. Air containing only three or four per cent acts as
a narcotic poison (MILLER), and a much smaller proportion will have an injurious effect. The
great danger, however, lies in the organic particles constantly exhaled from the lungs and
the skin, which, it is believed, are often direct and active poisons.] as it is to a flame,
and effete matter which is disagreeable to the smell, injurious to the health, and which may
contain the germs of serious disease.

THE EVIL EFFECT OF REBREATHING the air can not be overestimated. We take back into our bodies
that which has just been rejected. The blood thereupon leaves the lungs, bearing, not the invigorating
oxygen, but refuse matter to obstruct the whole system. We soon feel the effect. The muscles
become inactive. The blood stagnates. The heart acts slowly. The food is undigested. The brain
is clogged. The head aches. Instances of fatal results are only too frequent. [Footnote: During
the English war in India, in the eighteenth century, one hundred and forty-six prisoners were
shut up in a room scarcely large enough to hold them. The air could enter only by two narrow
windows. At the end of eight hours, but twenty-three persons remained alive, and these were
in a most deplorable condition. This prison is well called "The Black Hole of Calcutta."--Percy
relates that after the battle of Austerlitz, three hundred Russian prisoners were confined
in a cavern, where two hundred and sixty of them perished in a few hours.--The stupid captain
of the ship Londonderry, during a storm at sea, shut the hatches. There were only seven cubic
feet of space left for each person, and in six hours ninety of the passengers were dead.] The
constant breathing of even the slightly impure air of our houses can not but tend to undermine
the health. The blood is not purified, and is thus in a condition to receive the seeds of disease
at any time. The system uninspired by the energizing oxygen is sensitive to cold. The pale
cheek, the lusterless eye, the languid step, speak but too plainly of oxygen starvation. In
such a soil, catarrh, scrofula, and kindred diseases run riot. [Footnote: One not very strong,
or unable powerfully to resist conditions unfavorable to health, and with a predisposition
to lung disease, will be sure, sooner or later, by partial lung starvation and blood poisoning,
to develop pulmonary consumption. The lack of what is so abundant and so cheap--good, pure
air--is unquestionably the one great cause of this terrible disease.--BLACK'S Ten Laws of Health.]

CONCERNING THE NEED FOR VENTILATION.--The foul air which passes off from the lungs and through
the pores of the skin does not fall to the floor, but diffuses itself through the surrounding
atmosphere. A single breath will to a trifling but certain extent taint the air of a whole
room. [Footnote: This grows out of a well-known philosophical principle called the Diffusion
of Gases, whereby two gases tend to mix in exact proportions, no matter what may be the quantity
of each.--STEELE'S Popular Chemistry, p. 86, and Popular Physics, p. 52.] A light will vitiate
as much air as a dozen persons. Many breaths and lights therefore rapidly unfit the air for
our use.

The perfection of ventilation is reached when the air of a room is as pure as that out of doors.
To accomplish this result, it is necessary to allow for each person six hundred cubic feet
of space, while ventilation is still going on in the best manner known.

In spite of these well-known facts, scarcely any pains are taken to supply fresh air, while
the doors and windows where the life-giving oxygen might creep in are hermetically stopped.

How often is this true of the sick room. Yet here the danger of bad air is intensified. The
expired breath of the patient is peculiarly threatening to himself as well as to others. Nature
is seeking to throw off the poison of the disease. The scavengers of the body are all at work.
The breath and the insensible perspiration are loaded with impurities. [Footnote: The floating
dust in the air, revealed to us by the sunbeam shining through a crack in the blinds, shows
the abundance of these impurities, and also the presence of germs which, lodging in the lungs,
may implant disease, unless thrown off by a vigorous constitution. "On uncovering a scarlet
fever patient, a cloud of fine dust is seen to rise from the body--contagious dust, that for
days will retain its poisonous properties."--YOUMANS. (See p. 300.)] The odor is oftentimes
exceedingly offensive. Sick and well alike need an abundance of fresh air. But, too often,
it is the only want not supplied.

Our sitting rooms, heated by furnaces or red-hot stoves, generally have no means of ventilation,
or, if provided, they are seldom used. A window is occasionally dropped to give a little relief,
as if pure air were a rarity, and must be doled out to the suffering lungs in morsels, instead
of full and constant draughts. The inmates are starved by scanty lung food, and stupefied by
foul air. The process goes on year by year. The weakened and poisoned body at last succumbs
to disease, while we, in our blindness and ignorance, talk of the mysterious Providence which
thus untimely cuts down the brightest intellects. The truth is, death is often simply the penalty
for violating nature's laws. Bad air begets disease; disease begets death.

In our churches, the foul air left by the congregation on Sunday is shut up during the week,
and heated for the next Lord's day, when the people assemble to rebreathe the polluted atmosphere.
They are thus forced, with every breath they take, to violate the physical laws of Him whom
they meet to worship,--laws written not three thousand years ago upon Mount Sinai on tables
of stone, but to-day engraved in the constitution of their own living, breathing bodies. On
brains benumbed and starving for oxygen, the purest truth and the highest eloquence fall with
little force.

We sleep in a small bedroom from which every breath of fresh air is excluded, because we believe
night air to be unhealthy, [Footnote: There is a singular prejudice against the night air.
Yet, as Florence Nightingale aptly says, what other air can we breathe at night? We then have
the choice between foul air within and pure air without. For, in large cities especially, the
night air is far more wholesome than that of the daytime. To secure fresh air at night, we
must open the windows of our bedroom.] and so we breathe its dozen hogsheads of air over and
over again, and then wonder why we awaken in the morning so dull and unrefreshed! Return to
our room after inhaling the fresh, morning air, and the fetid odor we meet on opening the door,
is convincing proof how we have poisoned our lungs during the night.

Each room should be supplied with two thousand feet of fresh air per hour for every person
it contains. Our ingenuity ought to find some way of doing this advantageously and pleasantly.
A moiety of the care we devote to delicate articles of food, drink, and dress would abundantly
meet this prime necessity of our bodies.

Open the windows a little at the top and the bottom. Put on plenty of clothing to keep warm
by day and by night, and then let the inspiring oxygen come in as freely as God has given it.
Pure air is the cheapest necessity and luxury of life. Let it not be the rarest!

SCHOOLROOM VENTILATION.--Who, on going from the open air of a clear, bracing winter's day,
into a crowded schoolroom, late in the session, has not noticed the disagreeable odor, and
been for a moment nauseated and half stifled by the oppressive atmosphere! It is not strange.
See how many causes here combine to pollute the air. If the room is heated by a stove, quantities
of carbonic-oxide and carbonic-acid gases, as well as other products of combustion, driven
by downward drafts in the flue, escape through seams and cracks and the occasionally opened
door of the stove. In the case of a furnace, the same effect is too often experienced, and
the odor of coal gas is a common one, especially when the fire is replenished. The insensible
perspiration is more active in children than in adults; they, moreover, rush in with their
clothing saturated with the perspiration induced by their sports; so that, on the average,
each pupil, during school hours, loads the air with about half a pint of aqueous vapor. The
children come, oftentimes, from homes that are close, ill- ventilated, and uncleanly; and frequently
from sick rooms, bringing in their clothing the germs of disease. (See p. 304.) Some of the
pupils may even bear traces of illness, or have unsound organs, and so their breath and exhalations
be poisonous.

In addition to all this, the air is filled with dust brought in and kept astir by many busy
feet; with ashes floating from the stove or furnace; and especially with chalk dust. The modern
method of teaching requires a large amount of blackboard work, and the air of the schoolroom
is thus loaded with chalk particles. These collect in the nasal passages, and the upper part
of the larynx, and irritate the membrane, perhaps laying the foundation of catarrh.

The usual schoolroom atmosphere bears in the pupils the natural fruit of frequent headaches,
inattention, weariness, and stupor; but in the teacher its frightful influence is most apparent.
His labor is severe, his worry of mind is constant, and, when he finishes his day's work, he
is generally too tired to take proper physical exercise. He consequently labors on with impaired
health, or is forced to abandon his profession.

Instead of six hundred feet of space being allowed for each pupil, as perfect ventilation demands--the
lowest estimate being two hundred and fifty feet--often not over one hundred feet are afforded.
Instead of two thousand cubic feet of fresh air being supplied every hour for each person,
and as much foul air removed, which, all physiologists assert, is needed for perfect health,
perhaps no means of ventilation at all are provided, and none is secured except what an occasionally
opened door, or the benevolent cracks and chinks in the building furnish the suffering lungs.
This would generally be considered a very liberal provision. Such a room contains seven thousand
five hundred cubic feet of air. But it furnishes only one hundred and fifty feet of space for
each pupil. Allowing ten cubic feet of air per pupil each minute, in fifteen minutes after
assembling, the entire atmosphere of the room is tainted, and unfit to be rebreathed. The demand
of health is that at least one thousand five hundred cubic feet of pure air should be admitted
into this room every minute, and as much be removed.]

HOW SHALL WE VENTILATE?--The usual method of ventilation depends upon the fact that hot air
is lighter than cold air, and so the cold air tends, by the force of gravity, to fall and compel
the warm air to rise. Thus, if we open the door of a heated room, and hold a lighted candle
first at the top, and then at the bottom, we can see, by the deflection of the flame, that
there is a current of air setting outward at the top, and another setting inward at the bottom
of the opening. A handkerchief held loosely, or the smoke of a smoldering match, in front of
a fireplace will show a current of air passing up the chimney; this is caused by the difference
of temperature between the air in the room and the outside atmosphere. Upon this difference
of temperature, all ordinary ventilation is based. [Footnote: Public buildings are sometimes
ventilated by mechanical means, i. e., immense fans which are turned by machinery, and thus
set the air in motion. Such methods are, however, expensive, and rarely adopted, except where
power is also used for other purposes.] A proper treatment of this subject and its practical
applications, would require a book by itself. There is room here for only a few general statements
and suggestions.

1. Two openings are always necessary to produce a thorough change of air. (See "Popular Chemistry,"
p. 70.) Put a lighted candle in a bottle. The flame will soon be extinguished. The oxygen of
the little air in the bottle is burned out, and carbonic acid has taken its place. Now place
over the mouth of the bottle a lamp chimney, and insert in the chimney a strip of cardboard,
thus dividing the passage. On relighting the candle, it will burn freely. The smoke of a bit
of smoldering paper will show that two opposite currents of air are established, one setting
into the bottle, the other outward.

2. In the winter, when our schoolrooms, churches, public halls, etc., are heated artificially,
ventilation is comparatively easy if properly arranged. [Footnote: For the escape of bad air,
Dr. Bell suggests that an efficient foul-air shaft may be fitted to the commonest of stoves
by simply inclosing the stovepipe in a jacket--that is, in a pipe two or three inches greater
in diameter. This should be braced round the stovepipe and left open at the end next the stove.
At its entrance into the chimney, a perforated collar should separate it from the stovepipe.]
The required difference of temperature is kept up with little difficulty. The fresh air admitted
to the room should then be heated [Footnote: Ventilation is change of air, and, unless scientifically
arranged, and especially unless the incoming volume of air be warmed in cold weather, such
change of atmosphere means cold currents, with their attendant train of catarrhs, bronchitis,
neuralgia, rheumatism, and all the evils that spring from these diseases. The raw, damp, frosty
air of our ever-changing winter temperature ought not to have uncontrolled and constant ingress
to our dwellings. Air out of doors is suited to out of door habits. It is healthy and bracing
when the body is coated and wrapped, and prepared to meet it, and when exercise can be taken
to keep up the circulation; but to live under cover is to live artificially, and such essential
conditions must be observed as suit an abnormal state. All the evils attaching to ventilation,
as it is generally effected, spring from the neglect of this consistency.--Westminster Review.]
either by a furnace, or by passing over a stove, or through a coil of steam pipes. This cold
air should always be taken directly from out of doors, and not from a cellar, or from under
a piazza, where contamination is possible.

3. In order to remove the impure air, there should be ventilators provided at or near the floor,
opening into air shafts, or pipes leading upward through the roof, with proper orifices at
the top. These ventilating pipes should be heated artificially so as to produce a draught.
They may form one of the flues of a chimney in which there is a constant fire; or be carried
upward in a large flue through the center of which runs the smoke pipe of the furnace or stove;
[Footnote: This plan has been adopted in the newer school buildings of Elmira, N. Y. The older
buildings were provided with ventilating pipes, not heated artificially, and hence of no service.
These pipes are rendered effective, however, by conducting them into a small room in the garret,
heated by a coal stove. From this room, a large exit pipe leads to the roof, where it terminates
in an Emerson's ventilator. So strong a draught is thus established that throughout the building
air is taken from the floors, and consequently the cooler portion of the rooms, at a velocity
of three to five feet per second or one hundred and eighty to three hundred cubic feet per
minute for each square foot of flue opening. In perpendicular flues, heated throughout with
a smoke flue from the furnace, ten feet per second is attained.] or the ventilating pipe be
itself conveyed through the center of the larger chimney flue. If the register for hot air
be on the floor at one side of the room, two or more ventilators may be placed near the floor
on the opposite side. The warm air will thus make the complete circuit of the room, and thoroughly
warm it before passing out.

If the ventilating shaft be not heated artificially; the ventilator must be placed at the top
of the room in order that the hot air may escape through it, thus producing an upward draught.
But the objection to this method is that it allows the warmer air to escape, while economy
requires that the cooler air at the bottom of the room should be removed and the warm air be
made to descend, thus securing uniformity of temperature.

4. In the summer, ventilation may be commonly provided for by opening windows at the top and
the bottom, on the sheltered side of the building, so as to avoid draughts of air injurious
to the occupants. On a dull, still, hot day, when there is little difference of temperature
between the inner and the outer air, ventilation can be secured only by having a fire provided
in the ventilating shaft; this, by exhausting the air from the room, will cause a fresh current
to pour in through the open windows. At recess, all the children should, if the weather permit,
be sent out of doors, to allow their clothing to be exposed to the purifying influence of the
open air; meantime, the windows should be thrown wide open, that the room may be thoroughly
ventilated during their absence. In bad weather, rapid marching or calisthenic exercises will
furnish exercise, and also permit the airing of the room.

5. The school and the church are the centers for spreading contagious diseases. The former
offers especially dangerous facilities for scattering disease germs. Great pains, therefore,
should be taken to exclude pupils attacked by or recovering from diphtheria, scarlet fever,
whooping cough, etc., and even those who live in houses where such sickness exists.

6. In our houses [Footnote: The air of our homes is often contaminated by decaying vegetables
and other filth in the cellar; by bad air drawn up from the soil into the cellar, by the powerful
draughts that our fires create; by defective gas and waste pipes that let the foul air from
cesspool or sewer spread through the house; and by piles of refuse, or puddles of slops emptied
at the back door. Too often, also, the water in our wells, or in the streams that supply our
towns and cities, receives the drainage from outhouses and barnyards, and so introduces into
our systems, in the liquid--and thus easily assimilated--form, the most dangerous poisons.
The question of sanitary precautions is one that presses upon every observant mind, and demands
constant and thoughtful attention. (See p. 305.)] open fireplaces are efficient ventilators,
and they should never be closed for any cause. Fresh air admitted by a hot-air register and
impure air passed out by a chimney, form a simple and thorough system. Our sleeping apartments
demand especial care. As soon as the occupants leave the room, the bedclothes should be removed,
and laid on the backs of chairs to air; the bed be shaken up; and the windows thrown open.
In the summer, the windows may be closed before the sun is high; the house is then left filled
with the cool morning air. In damp and cold weather, a fire should be lighted in sleeping apartments,
particularly if used by children [Footnote: In winter, children should always be given a moderately
warm, well-ventilated bedroom, with light, fleecy bed coverings. Says a recent English writer:
"The loving care which prescribes for children a cold bedroom and a hot, sweltering bed is
of the nature that kills. Buried in blankets, their delicate skins become overheated and relaxed,
while they are irritated by perspiration; at the same time, the most delicate tissues of all,
in the lungs, are dealing with air abnormally frigid. The poor little victims of combined ignorance
and kindness thus toss and dream, feverish and troubled, under a mass of bedclothes, while
the well-meaning mother, soothed by a bedroom fire, slumbers peacefully through this working
out of the sad process of the 'survival of the fittest.'"] or delicate persons, to dry the
bedclothing, and also to prevent a chill on the part of the occupants. It is not necessary
to go shivering to bed in order to harden one's constitution.

WONDERS OF RESPIRATION.--The perfection of the organs of respiration challenges our admiration.
So delicate are they that the least pressure would cause exquisite pain, yet tons of air surge
to and fro through their intricate passages, and bathe their innermost cells. We yearly perform
at least seven million acts of breathing, inhaling one hundred thousand cubic feet of air,
and purifying over three thousand five hundred tons of blood. This gigantic process goes on
constantly, never wearies or worries us, and we wonder at it only when science reveals to us
its magnitude. In addition, by a wise economy, the process of respiration is made to subserve
a second use no less important, and the air we exhale, passing through the organs of voice,
is transformed into prayers of faith, songs of hope, and words of social cheer.

FIG. 33.

DISEASES, ETC.--1. Constriction of the Lungs is produced by tight clothing. The ribs are thus
forced inward, the size of the chest is diminished, and the amount of inhaled air decreased.
Stiff clothing, and especially a garment that will not admit of a full breath without inconvenience,
will prevent that free movement of the ribs so essential to health. Any infraction of the laws
of respiration, even though it be fashionable, will result in diminished vitality and vigor,
and will be fearfully punished by sickness and weakness through the whole life.

2. Bronchitis (bron-ki'-tis) is an inflammation (see Inflammation) of the mucous membrane of
the bronchial tubes. It is accompanied by an increased secretion of mucus, and consequent coughing.

3. Pleurisy is an inflammation of the pleura. It is sometimes caused by an injury to the ribs,
and results in a secretion of water within the membrane.

4. Pneumonia (pneuma, breath) is an inflammation of the lungs, affecting chiefly the air cells.

5. Consumption is a disease which destroys the substance of the lungs. Like other lung difficulties,
it is caused largely by a want of pure air, a liberal supply of which is the best treatment
that can be prescribed for it. [Footnote: If I were seriously ill of consumption, I would live
outdoors day and night, except in rainy weather or midwinter; then I would sleep in an unplastered
log house. Physic has no nutriment, gaspings for air can not cure you, monkey capers in a gymnasium
can not cure you, stimulants can not cure you. What consumptives want is pure air, not physic,
plenty of meat and plenty of bread.--DR. MARSHALL HALL.]

6. Asphyxia (as-fix'-i-a).--When a person is drowned, strangled, or choked in any way, what
is called asphyxia occurs. The face turns black; the veins become turgid; insensibility and
often convulsions ensue. If relief is not secured within a few minutes, death will be inevitable.
[Footnote: The lack of oxygen, and the presence of carbonic-acid gas, are the combined causes.
Oxygen starvation and carbonic-acid poisoning, each fatal in itself, work together to destroy
life.] (See p. 264.)

7. Diphtheria (diphthera, a membrane) is characterized by fever, debility, and a peculiar sore
throat, in which exuding fibrinous matter forms a grayish white membrane, which afterward decomposes
with a fetid odor. Its sudden and insidious approach, contagious character, and frequent fatality,
render it an exceedingly dreaded disease. A diphtheritic patient should be quarantined, and
everything connected with the sick room thoroughly disinfected.

8. Croup, which often attacks young children, is an inflammation of the mucous membrane of
the larynx and trachea. It is commonly preceded by a cold. The child sneezes, coughs, and is
hoarse, but the attack frequently comes on suddenly, and usually in the night. It is accompanied
by a peculiar "brassy," ringing cough, which, once heard, can never be mistaken. It may prove
fatal within a few hours. (See p. 260.)

9. Stammering depends, not on defects of the muscles, but on a want of due control of the mind.
When a stammerer is not too conscious of his lack, and tries to form his words slowly, he speaks
plainly, and may sing well, for then his words must follow one another in rhythmic time. Many
persons who stammer in common conversation can talk with fluency when making a speech. The
stammerer should seek to discover the cause of his difficulty, and to overcome it by vocal
and respiratory exercise, especially by speaking only after a full inspiration, and during
a long, slow expiration.

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. What is the philosophy of "the change of voice" in a boy?

2. Why can we see our breath on a frosty morning?

3. When a law of health and a law of fashion conflict, which should we obey?

4. If we use a "bunk" bed, should we pack away the clothes when we first rise in the morning?

5. Why should a clothespress be well ventilated?

6. Should the weight of our clothing hang from the waist, or the shoulder?

7. Describe the effects of living in an overheated room.

8. What habits impair the power of the lungs?

9. For full, easy breathing in singing, should we use the diaphragm and lower ribs, or the
upper ribs alone?

10. Why is it better to breathe through the nose than the mouth?

11. Why should not a speaker talk while returning home on a cold night after a lecture?

12. What part of the body needs the loosest clothing?

13. What part needs the warmest?

14. Why is a "spare bed" generally unhealthful?

15. Is there any good in sighing?

16. Should a hat be thoroughly ventilated? How?

17. Why do the lungs of people who live in cities become of a gray color?

18. How would you convince a person that a bedroom should be aired? [Footnote: "If the condensed
breath collected on the cool windowpanes of a room where a number of persons have been assembled,
be burned, a smell as of singed hair will show the presence of organic matter; and if the condensed
breath be allowed to remain on the windows for a few days, it will be found, on examination
by the microscope, that it is alive with animalcule."]

19. What persons are most liable to catarrhs, consumption, etc.?

20. If a person is plunged under water, will it enter his lungs?

21. Are bed curtains healthful?

22. Why do some people take "short breaths" after a meal?

23 What is the special value of public parks?

24. Can a person become used to bad air, so that it will not injure him?

25. Why do we gape when we are sleepy?

26. Is a fashionable waist a model of art in sculpture or painting?

27. Should a fireplace be closed? [Footnote: Thousands of lives would be saved if all fireplaces
were kept open. If you are so fortunate as to have a fireplace in your room, paint it when
not in use, put a bouquet of fresh flowers in it every morning, if you please, or do anything
to make it attractive, but never close it; better use the fireboards for kindling wood. It
would be scarcely more absurd to take a piece of elegantly-tinted court-plaster and stop up
the nose, trusting to the accidental opening and shutting of the mouth for fresh air, because
you thought it spoiled the looks of your face to have two such great, ugly holes in it, than
to stop your fireplace with elegantly-tinted paper, or a Japanese fan, because it looks better.--Leeds.]

28. Why does embarrassment or fright cause a stammerer to stutter still more painfully?

29. In the organs of voice, what parts have somewhat the same effect as the case of a violin
and the sounding-board of a piano?

30. Why should we be careful not to "take the breath of a sick person"?

31. What special care should be taken with regard to keeping a cellar clean?

32. How is the air strained as it passes into the lungs?

33. Can one really "draw the air into his lungs"?

34. How often do we breathe?

35. Describe some approved method of ventilation.

36. What is at once the floor of the chest and the roof of the abdomen?

37. What would you do in a case of apparent death by drowning, or by coal gas? (See p. 264.)

38. What would you do in a case of croup, while the doctor was coming? (See p. 260.)

39. How would you treat a severe burn? (See p. 257.)

40. Describe the various ways in which the water in a well is liable to become unwholesome.

FIG. 34.

V.

THE CIRCULATION.

HOLMES.

ANALYSIS OF THE CIRCULATION

                   | 1. Its Composition.
| 1. THE BLOOD       | 2. Its Uses.
|                    | 3. Transfusion.
|                    |4. Coagulation
|                                
|                               | 1. Description.
|                               | 2. Movements.
|                               | 3. Auricles and Ventricles.
|                              |                 
|                    | 1. The   |                | a. Need of.
|                    |    Heart.|                | b. Tricuspid and
|                    |          |                |     Bicuspid.
|                    |          | 4. The      | c. The Strengthen-
|                    |          |    Valves. |     ing of the
|                    |          |                |     Valves.
|                    |          |                | d. Semilunar
|                    |          |               |    Valves.
|                    |           
| 2. ORGANS OF THE   | 2. The   | 1. Description.
|     CIRCULATION    | Arteries | 2. The Arterial System.
|                    |          |3. The Pulse.
|                    |           
|                    | 3. The   | 1. General Description.
|                    |    Veins |2. Valves.
|                    |           
|                    | 4. The   | 1. Description.
|                    |  Capilla-| 2. Use.
|                    |   ries  |3. Under the Microscope.
|                     
|                    | 1. The Lesser.
| 3. THE CIRCULATION.| 2. The Greater.
|                    |3. The Velocity of the Blood.
|                     
| 4. THE HEAT OF THE | 1. Distribution.
|        BODY.       |2. Regulation.
|
| 5. LIFE BY DEATH.
|
| 6. CHANGE OF OUR BODIES.
|
| 7. THE THREE VITAL ORGANS.
|
| 8. WONDERS OF THE HEART.
|                     
|                    | 1. Description
| 9. THE LYMPHATIC   | 2. The Glands.
|      CIRCULATION.  | 3. The Lymph.
|                    |4. The Office of the Lymphatics.
|                     
|                    | 1. Congestion.
|                    | 2. Inflammation.
|                    | 3. Bleeding.
| 10. DISEASES.      | 4. Scrofula.
|                    | 5. A Cold.
|                    |6. Catarrh.
|                     
|                    | 1. Effect of Alcohol upon the Circulation.
| 11. ALCOHOLIC      | 2. Effect of Alcohol upon the Heart.
|     DRINKS AND     | 3. Effect of Alcohol upon the Membrane.
|    NARCOTICS.     | 4. Effect of Alcohol upon the Blood.
|5. Effect of Alcohol upon the Lungs.

THE CIRCULATION.

THE ORGANS OF THE CIRCULATION are the heart, the arteries, the veins, and the capillaries.

FIG. 35.

THE BLOOD is the liquid by means of which the circulation is effected. It permeates every part
of the body, except the cuticle, nails, hair, etc. The average quantity in each person is about
eighteen pounds. [Footnote: It is difficult to estimate the exact amount, and therefore authorities
disagree. Foster places it at about one thirteenth of the body weight.] It is composed of a
thin, colorless liquid, the plasma, filled with red disks or cells, [Footnote: There is also
one white globular cell to every three or four hundred red ones. The blood is no more red than
the water of a stream would be if you were to fill it with little red fishes. Suppose the fishes
to be very, very small--as small as a grain of sand-- and closely crowded together through
the whole depth of the stream; the water would look quite red, would it not? And this is the
way in which, blood looks red--only observe one thing; a grain of sand is a mountain in comparison
with the little red fishes in the blood. If I were to tell you they measured about 1/3500 of
an inch in diameter, you would not be much wiser; so I prefer saying (by way of giving you
a more perfect idea of their minuteness) that there would be about a million in such a drop
of blood as would hang on the point of a needle. I say so on the authority of a scientific
microscopist--M. Bouillet. Not that he has ever counted them, as you may suppose, any more
than I have done; but this is as near an approach as can be made by calculation to the size
of 1/3500 part of an inch in diameter.--JEAN MACE.] so small that about three thousand five
hundred placed side by side would measure only an inch, and it would take sixteen thousand
laid flatwise upon one another to make a column of that height. Under the microscope, they
are found to be rounded at the edge and concave on both sides. [Footnote: By pricking the end
of the finger with a needle, we can obtain a drop for examination. Place it on the slide, cover
with a glass, and put it at once under the microscope. The red disks will be seen to group
themselves in rows, while the white disks will seem to draw apart, and to be constantly changing
their form. After a gradual evaporation, the crystals (Fig. 36) may be seen. In animals, they
have various, though distinctive forms.] They have a tendency to collect in piles like rolls
of coin. The size and shape vary in the blood of different animals. [Footnote: Authorities
differ greatly in their estimate of the size of the disks (corpuscles) in human blood. The
fact is that the size varies in different persons, probably also in the same individual. Many
of the best microscopists therefore hesitate to state whether a particular specimen of blood
belonged to a human being or to an animal. Others claim that they can distinguish with accuracy.
Evidently, the question is one of great uncertainty. The following statement of the size of
the cells in different animals is taken from Gulliver's tables: Cat, 1/4404 of an inch in diameter;
whale, 1/3100; mouse, 1/3614; hog, 1/4230; camel, 1/3123; sheep, 1/3352; horse, 1/4800; Virginia
deer, 1/5038; dog- faced baboon, 1/4861; brown baboon, 1/3493; red monkey, 1/3396; black monkey,
1/3530.] Disks are continually forming in the blood, and are constantly dying--twenty million
at every breath.--DRAPER.

The plasma also contains fibrin, [Footnote: it is usual to say that fibrin is contained in
the blood. It probably does not exist as such, but there are present in the blood certain substances
known as paraglobulin and fibrinogen, which by the action of a third substance, fibrin ferment
under certain circumstances, form fibrin and so cause coagulation. The exact nature of the
process by which fibrin is produced by these three factors is not understood--See Foster's
Text Book of Physiology, p 22.] albumin--which is found nearly pure in the white of an egg--and
various mineral substances, as iron, [Footnote: Enough iron has been found in the ashes of
a burned body to form a mourning ring.] lime, magnesia, phosphorus, potash, etc.

FIG. 36.

USES OF THE BLOOD.--The blood has been called "liquid flesh"; but it is more than that, since
it contains the materials for making every organ. The plasma is rich in mineral matter for
the bones, and in albumen for the muscles. The red disks are the air cells of the blood. They
contain the oxygen so essential to every operation of life. Wherever there is work to be done
or repairs to be made, there the oxygen is needed. It stimulates to action, and tears down
all that is worn out. In this process, it combines with and actually burns out parts of the
muscles and other tissues, as wood is burned in the stove. [Footnote: For the sake of simplicity,
perhaps to conceal our own ignorance, we call this process "burning." The simile of a fire
is good so far as it goes. But as to the real nature of the change which the physiologist briefly
terms "oxidation," we know nothing. This much only can be asserted positively. A stream of
oxygen is carried by the blood to the muscles (in fact to every tissue in the body), while,
from the muscles the blood carries away a stream of carbonic acid and water. But what takes
place in the muscles, when and what chemical change occurs, no one can tell. We see the first
and the last stage. We know that contraction of the muscles somehow comes about, oxygen disappears,
carbonic acid appears, energy is released, and force is exhibited as motion, heat, and electricity.
But the intermediate step is hidden.

There are certain theories advanced, however, that are worth considering. Some physiologists
hold that the muscle has the power of taking up the oxygen from the hemoglobin (a body that
comprises ninety per cent of the red corpuscles when dried, and is the oxygen carrier of the
blood), and fixing it, as well as the raw material (food) furnished by the blood, thus forming
a true contractile substance. The breaking down or decomposition of this contractile substance
in the muscle, sets free its potential energy. The process is gentle so long as the muscle
is at rest, but becomes excessive and violent when contraction occurs. (See "Foster's Physiology,"
p. 118.) It is also believed by some that the chemical change in the muscle partakes of a fermentive
character; that, under the influence of the proper ferments, the substances break up into other
and simpler products, thus setting free heat and force; and that this chemical change is followed
by a secondary oxidation by the oxygen in the arterial blood, thereby forming carbonic acid
and water, as in all putrefactive processes. But these and other views are not as yet fully
understood; while they utterly fail to tell us how a collection of simple cells, filled merely
with a semifluid mass of matter, can contract and set free muscular power. The commonness of
this act hides from us its wonderful nature. But here, hidden in the cell--Nature's tiny laboratory--lies
the mystery of life. Before its closed door we ponder in vain, confessing the unskillfulness
of our labor, and fearing all the while lest the Secret of the Cell will always elude our search.]
The blood, now foul with the burned matter, the refuse of this fire, is caught up by the circulation,
and whirled back to the lungs, where it is purified, and again sent bounding on its way.

There are then two different kinds of the blood in the body: the red or arterial, and the dark
or venous.

TRANSFUSION.--As the blood is really the "vital fluid" it would seem that feeble persons might
be restored to vigor by infusing healthy blood into their veins. This hypothesis, so valuable
in its possible results in prolonging human life, has been carefully tested. Animals which
have ceased to breathe have thus had their vitality recalled. In the seventeenth century the
theory became a subject of special investigation. A maniac was restored to reason by the blood
of a calf, and the most extravagant hopes were entertained. But many fatal accidents occurring,
experiments upon human beings were forbidden by law, and transfusion soon fell into disuse.
It has, however, been successfully practiced in several cases within the last few years, and
is a method still in repute for saving lives.

COAGULATION.--When blood is exposed to the air, it coagulates. This is caused by the solidifying
of the fibrin, which entangling the disks, forms the "clot." The remaining clear, yellow liquid
is the serum. The value of this peculiar property of the blood can hardly be overestimated.
The coagulation soon checks all ordinary cases of bleeding. [Footnote: In the case of the lower
animals, which have no means of stopping hemorrhages as we have, the coagulation is generally
still more rapid. In some species of birds it takes place almost instantaneously.] When a wound
is made, and bleeding commences, the fibrin forms a temporary plug, as it were, which is absorbed
when the healing process is finished. Thus we see how a Divine foresight has provided not only
for the ordinary wants of the body, but also for the accidents to which it is liable. [Footnote:
The fibrin is not an essential ingredient of the blood. All the functions of life are regularly
performed in people whose blood lacks fibrin; and, in cases of transfusion, where blood deprived
of its fibrin was used, the vivifying influence seemed to be the same. Its office, therefore,
must mainly be to stanch any hemorrhage which may occur.--FLINT.]

FIG. 37.

THE HEART is the engine which propels the blood. It is a hollow, pear- shaped muscle, about
the size of the fist. It hangs, point downward, just to the left of the center of the chest.
(See Fig. 31.) It is inclosed in a loose sac of serous membrane, [Footnote: The mucous membrane
lines the open cavities of the body; the serous, the closed. The pericardium is a sac composed
of two layers--a fibrous membrane on the outside, and a serous one on the inside. The latter
covers the external surface of the heart, and is reflected back upon itself in order to form,
like all the membranes of this nature, a sac without an opening. The heart is thus covered
by the pericardial sac, but not contained inside its cavity. A correct idea may be formed of
the disposition of the pericardium around the heart by recalling a very common and very convenient,
though now discarded headdress, the cotton nightcap. The pericardium incloses the heart exactly
as this cap covered the heads of our forefathers.-- Wonders of the Human Body.] called the
pericardium (peri, about; and kardia, the heart). This secretes a lubricating fluid, and is
smooth as satin.

THE MOVEMENTS OF THE HEART consist of an alternate contraction and expansion. The former is
called the sys'-to-le, and the latter the di-as'-to-le. During the diastole, the blood flows
into the heart, to be expelled by the systole. The alternation of these movements constitutes
the beating of the heart which we hear so distinctly between the fifth and sixth ribs. [Footnote:
Two sounds are heard if we put our ear over the heart,--the first and longer as the blood is
leading the organ, the second as it falls into the pockets of the two arteries, and the valves
then striking together cause it. The first sound is mainly the noise made by the muscular tissue.
During the first, the two ventricles contract; during the second the two auricles do so. The
hand may feel the heart striking the ribs as it contracts,--a feeling called the impulse, or,
if quicker and stronger than usual, palpitation. This is not always a sign of disease, but
in hypochondriacs is often an effect of the mind on the nerves of the heart.--MAPOTHER]

FIG. 38.

THE AURICLES AND VENTRICLES--The heart is divided into four chambers. In an adult, each holds
about a wineglassful. The upper ones, from appendages on the outside resembling the ears of
a dog, are called auricles (aures, ears). are termed ventricles. The auricle and ventricle
on each side communicate with each other, but the right and left halves of the heart are entirely
distinct, and perform different offices. The left side propels the red blood; and the right,
the dark. The auricles are merely reservoirs to receive the blood (the left auricle, as it
filters in bright and pure from the lungs; the right, as it returns dark and foul from the
tour of the body), and to furnish it to the ventricles as they need. Their work being so light,
their walls are comparatively thin and weak. On the other hand, the ventricles force the blood
(the left, to all parts of the body; the right, to the lungs), and are, therefore, made very
strong. As the left ventricle drives the blood so much farther than the right, it is correspondingly
thicker and stronger.

NEED OF VALVES IN THE HEART.--As the auricles do not need to contract with much force simply
to empty their contents into the ventricles below them, there is no demand for any special
contrivance to prevent the blood from setting back the wrong way. Indeed, it would naturally
run down into the ventricle, which is at that moment open to receive it. But, when the strong
ventricles contract, especially the left one, which must drive the blood to the extremities,
some arrangement is necessary to prevent it from returning into the auricle. Besides, when
they expand, the "suction power" would tend to draw back again from the arteries all the blood
just forced out. This difficulty is obviated by means of little doors, or valves, which will
not let it go the wrong way. [Footnote: The heart of an ox or a sheep may be used to show the
chambers and valves. The aorta should be cut as far as possible from the heart, and then by
pumping in water the perfection of these valves will be finely exhibited. Cutting the heart
across near the middle will show the greater thickness of the left ventricle.]

THE TRICUSPID AND BICUSPID VALVES.--At the opening into the right ventricle, is a valve consisting
of three folds or flaps of membrane, whence it is called the tricuspid valve (tri, three; and
cuspides, points), and in the left ventricle, one containing two flaps, and named the bicuspid
valve. These hang so loosely as to oppose no resistance to the passage of the blood into the
ventricles; but, if any attempts to go the other way, it gets between the flaps and the walls
of the heart, and, driving them outward, closes the orifice.

FIG. 39.

THESE FLAPS ARE STRENGTHENED like sails by slender cords, which prevent their being pressed
back through the opening. If the cords were attached directly to the walls of the heart, they
would be loosened in the systole, and so become useless when most needed. They are, therefore,
fastened to little muscular pillars projecting from the sides of the ventricle; when that contracts,
the pillars contract also, and thus the cords are held tight.

THE SEMILUNAR VALVES.--In the passages outward from the ventricles, are valves, called from
their peculiar half-moon shape semilunar valves (semi, half; Luna, Moon). Each consists of
three little pocket-shaped folds of membrane, with their openings in the direction which the
blood is to take. When it sets back, they fill, and, swelling out, close the passage (Fig. 40).

THE ARTERIES [Footnote: Aer, air; and tereo, I contain--so named because after death they contain
air only, and hence the ancients supposed them to be air tubes leading through the body.] are
the tube-like canals which convey the blood from the heart. They carry the red blood (see note,
p. 119). They are composed of an elastic tissue, which yields at every throb of the heart,
and then slowly contracting again, keeps up the motion of the blood until the next systole.
The elasticity of the arteries acts like the air chamber of a fire engine, which converts the
intermittent jerks of the brakes or pump into the steady stream of the hose nozzle.

The arteries sometimes communicate by means of branches or by meshes of loops, so that if the
blood be blocked in one, it can pass round through another, and so get by the obstacle. [Footnote:
This occurs especially about the joints, where it serves to maintain the circulation during
the bending of a limb, or when the main artery is obstructed by disease or injury, or has been
tied by the surgeon. In the last case, the small adjacent arteries gradually enlarge, and form
what is called a collateral circulation.] When an artery penetrates a muscle, it is often protected
by a sheath or by fibrous rings, which prevent its being pulled out of place or compressed
by the play of the muscles.

The arteries are generally located as far as possible beneath the surface, out of harm's way,
and hence are found closely hugging the bones or creeping through safe passages provided for
them. They are generally nearly straight, and take the shortest routes to the parts which they
are to supply with blood.

THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM starts from the left ventricle by a single trunk--the aorta--which, after
giving off branches to the head, sweeps back of the chest with a bold curve--the arch of the
aorta (c, Fig. 34)--and thence runs downward (f), dividing and subdividing, like a tree, into
numberless branches, which, at last, penetrate every nook and corner of the body.

THE PULSE.--At the wrist (k, radial artery) and on the temple (temporal artery) we can feel
the expansion of the artery by each little wave of blood set in motion by the contraction of
the heart. In health, there are about seventy-two [Footnote: This number varies much with age,
sex, and individuals. Napoleon's pulse is said to have been only forty, while it is not infrequent
to find a healthy pulse at one hundred or over. In general, the pulse is quicker in children
and in old people than in the middle-aged; in short persons than in tall; in women than in
men. Shame makes the heart send more blood to the blushing cheek, and fear almost stops it.
The will can not check the heart. There is said, however, to have been a notable exception
to this in the case of one Colonel Townsend, of Dublin, who, after having succeeded several
times in stopping the pulsation, at last lost his life in the act.] pulsations per minute.
They increase with excitement or inflammation, weaken with loss of vigor, and are modified
by nearly every disease. The physician, therefore, finds the pulse a good index of the state
of the system and the character of the disorder. (See p. 314.)

THE VEINS are the tube-like canals which convey the blood to the heart. [Footnote: There is
one exception to the general course of the veins. The portal vein carries the blood from the
digestive organs to the liver, where it is acted upon, thence poured into the ascending vena
cava, and goes back to the heart.] They carry the dark or venous blood (note, p. 119). As they
do not receive the direct impulse of the heart, their walls are made much thinner and less
elastic than those of the arteries. At first small, they increase in size and diminish in number
as they gradually pour into one another, like tiny rills collecting to form two rivers, the
vena cava ascending and the vena cava descending (l, m, Fig. 34), which empty into the right
auricle.

Some of the veins creep along under the skin, where they can be seen, as in the back of the
hand; while others accompany the arteries, some of which have two or more of these companions.

VALVES similar in construction to those already described (the semilunar valves of the heart,
page 114) are placed at convenient intervals, in order to guide the blood in its course, and
prevent its setting backward. [Footnote: Too much standing, or tight elastics, often cause
the veins in the leg to swell, so that the valves can not work; the veins then become varicose,
or permanently enlarged, and, if they burst, the bleeding may be profuse and even dangerous.
Raising the leg and pressing the finger on the bleeding spot will stay it. Walking does not
encourage this disease, for the active muscles force on the venous blood. Clerks who are subject
to varicose veins should have seats behind the counters where they may rest when not actually
employed. A deep breath helps the flow in the veins, and a wound may suck in air with fatal
effect. A maimed horse is most mercifully killed by blowing a bubble of air into the veins
of his neck. As the deep-sea pressure would burst valves, the whale has none; hence a small
wound by the harpoon causes him to bleed to death.-- MAPOTHER.] We can easily examine the working
of these valves. On baring the arm, blue veins may be seen running along the arm toward the
hand. Their diameter is tolerably even, and they gradually decrease in size. If now the finger
be pressed on the upper part of one of these veins, and then passed downward so as to drive
its blood backward, swellings like little knots will make their appearance. Each of these marks
the location of a valve, which is closed by the blood we push before our finger. Remove the
pressure, and the valve will swing open, the blood set forward, and the vein collapse to its
former size.

FIG. 40.

THE CAPILLARIES (capillus, a hair) form a fine network of tubes, connecting the ends of the
arteries with the veins. They blend, however, with the extremities of these two systems, so
that it is not easy to tell just where an artery ends and a vein begins. So closely are they
placed, that we can not prick the flesh with a needle without injuring, perhaps, hundreds of
them. The air cells of the blood deposit there their oxygen, and receive carbonic acid, while
in the delicate capillaries of the lungs [Footnote: The capillary tubes are there so fine that
the disks of the blood have to go one by one, and are sadly squeezed at that. However, their
elasticity enables them to resume their old shape as soon as they have escaped from this labyrinth.]
they give up their load of carbonic acid in exchange for oxygen.

FIG. 41.

If, by means of a microscope, we examine the transparent web of a frog's foot, we can trace
the route of the blood. [Footnote: With small splints and twine, a frog's foot can be easily
stretched and tied so that the transparent web can be placed on the table of the microscope.]
It is an experiment of wonderful interest. The crimson stream, propelled by the heart, rushes
through the arteries, until it reaches the intricate meshes of the capillaries. Here it breaks
into a thousand tiny rills. We can see the disks winding in single file through the devious
passages, darting hither and thither, now pausing, swaying to and fro with an uncertain motion,
and anon dashing ahead, until, at last, gathered in the veins, the blood sets steadily back
on its return to the heart.

THE CIRCULATION [Footnote: The circulation of the blood was discovered by Harvey in 1619. For
several years, he did not dare to publish his belief. When it became known, he was bitterly
persecuted, and his practice as a physician greatly decreased in consequence. He lived, however,
to see his theory universally adopted, and his name honored. Harvey is said to have declared
that no man over forty years of age accepted his views.] consists of two parts--the lesser,
and the greater.

FIG. 42.

1. The Lesser Circulation.--The dark blood from the veins collects in the right auricle, and,
going through the tricuspid valve, empties into the right ventricle. Thence it is driven past
the semilunar valves, through the pulmonary artery, to the lungs. After circulating through
the fine capillaries of the air cells contained in the lungs, it is returned, bright and red,
through the four pulmonary veins, [Footnote: It is noticeable that the pulmonary set of veins
circulates red blood, and the pulmonary set of arteries circulates dark blood. Both are connected
with the lungs.] to the left auricle.

2. The Greater Circulation.--From the left auricle, the blood is forced past the bicuspid valve
to the left ventricle; thence it is driven through the semilunar valves into the great aorta,
the main trunk of the arterial system. Passing through the arteries, capillaries, and veins,
it returns through the vene cave, ascending and descending, gathers again in the right auricle,
and so completes the "grand round" of the body. Both these circulations are going on constantly,
as the two auricles contract, and the two ventricles expand simultaneously, and vice versa.

THE VELOCITY OF THE BLOOD varies so much in different parts of the body, and is influenced
by so many circumstances, that it can not be calculated with any degree of accuracy. It has
been estimated that a portion of the blood will make the tour of the body in about twenty-three
seconds (FLINT), and that the entire mass passes through the heart in from one to two minutes.
[Footnote: The total amount of blood in an adult of average weight is about eighteen pounds.
Dividing this by five ounces, the quantity discharged by the left ventricle at each systole,
gives fifty- eight pulsations as the number necessary to transmit all the blood in the body.
This, however, is an extremely unreliable basis of calculation, as the rapidity of the blood
is itself so variable. Chauvreau has shown by experiments with his instrument that, corresponding
to the first dilation of the vessels, the blood moves with immense rapidity; following this,
the current suddenly becomes nearly arrested; this is succeeded by a second acceleration in
the current, not quite so rapid as the first; and after this there is a gradual decline in
the rapidity to the time of the next pulsation.] (See p. 314.)

DISTRIBUTION AND REGULATION OF THE HEAT OF THE BODY.--1. Distribution.--The natural temperature
is not far from 98 degrees. [Footnote: The average temperature is, however, easily departed
from. Through some trivial cause the cooling agencies may be interfered with, and then, the
heating processes getting the superiority, a high temperature or fever comes on. Or the reverse
may ensue. In Asiatic cholera, the constitution of the blood is so changed that its disks can
no longer carry oxygen into the system, the heat-making processes are put a stop to, and, the
temperature declining, the body becomes of a marble coldness, characteristic of that terrible
disease.--DRAPER.] This is maintained, as we have already seen, by the action of the oxygen
within us. Each capillary tube is a tiny stove, where oxygen is combining with the tissues
of the body (see note, p. 107). Every contraction of a muscle develops heat, the latent heat
being set free by the breaking up of the tissue. The warmth so produced is distributed by the
circulation of the blood. Thus the arteries, veins, and capillaries form a series of hot- water
pipes, through which the heated liquid is forced by a pump--the heart--while the heat is kept
up, not by a central furnace and boiler, but by a multitude of little fires placed here and
there along its course.

2. Regulation.--The temperature of the body is regulated by means of the pores of the skin
and the mucous membrane in the air passages. When the system becomes too warm, the blood vessels
on the surface expand, the blood fills them, the fluid exudes into the perspiratory glands,
pours out upon the exterior, and by evaporation cools the body. [Footnote: Just as water sprinkled
on the floor cools a room.--Popular Physics, p. 255.] When the temperature of the body is too
low, the vessels contract, less blood goes to the surface, the perspiration decreases, and
the loss of heat by evaporation diminishes. [Footnote: Thus one is enabled to go into an oven
where bread is baking, or into the arctic regions where the mountains are snow and the rivers
ice. Even by these extremes the temperature of the blood will be but slightly affected. In
the one case, the flood gates of perspiration will be opened and the superfluous heat expended
in turning the water to vapor; and, in the other, they will be tightly closed and all the heat
retained.]

LIFE BY DEATH.--The body is being incessantly corroded, and portions borne away by the tireless
oxygen. The scales of the epidermis are constantly falling off and being replaced by secretion
from the cutis. The disks of the blood die, and new ones spring into being. On the continuance
of this interchange depend our health and vigor. Every act is a destructive one. Not a bend
of the finger, not a wink of the eye, not a thought of the brain but is at some expense of
the machine itself. Every process of life is thus a process of death. The more rapidly this
change goes on, and fresh, vigorous tissue takes the place of the old, the more elasticity
and strength we possess.

CHANGE OF OUR BODIES.--There is a belief that our bodies change once in seven years. From the
nature of the case, the rate must vary with the labor we perform; the organs most used altering
oftenest. Probably the parts of the body in incessant employment are entirely reorganized many
times within a single year. [Footnote: To use a homely simile, our bodies are like the Irishman's
knife, which, after having had several new blades, and at least one new handle, was yet the
same old knife.]

THE THREE VITAL ORGANS.--Death is produced by the stoppage of the action of any one of the
three organs--the heart, the lungs, or the brain. They have, therefore, been termed the "Tripod
of Life." Really, however, as Huxley has remarked, "Life has but two legs to stand upon." If
respiration and circulation be kept up artificially, the removal of the brain will not produce
death. [Footnote: When death really does take place, i. e., when the vital organs are stopped,
it is noticeable that the tissues do not die for some time thereafter. If suitable stimulants
be applied, as the galvanic battery, transfusion of blood, etc., the muscles may be made to
contract, and many of the phenomena of life be exhibited. Dr. Brown- Sequard thus produced
muscular action in the hand of a criminal, fourteen hours after his execution.]

WONDERS OF THE HEART.--The ancients thought the heart to be the seat of love. There were located
the purity and goodness as well as the evil passions of the soul. [Footnote: Our common words,
hearty, large-hearted, courage (cor, the heart), are remains of this fanciful theory.] Modern
science has found the seat of the mental powers to be in the brain. But while it has thus robbed
the heart of its romance, it has revealed wonders which eclipse all the mysteries of the past.
This marvelous little engine throbs on continually at the rate of one hundred thousand beats
per day, forty millions per year, often three billions without a single stop. It is the most
powerful of machines. "Its daily work is equal to one third that of all the muscles. If it
should expend its entire force in lifting its own weight vertically, it would rise twenty thousand
feet in an hour." [Footnote: "The greatest exploit ever accomplished by a locomotive, was to
lift itself through less than one eighth of that distance." Vast and constant as is this process,
so perfect is the machinery, that there are persons who do not even know where the heart lies
until disease or accident reveals its location.] Its vitality is amazing. The most tireless
of organs while life exists, it is one of the last to yield when life expires. So long as a
flutter lingers at the heart, we know the spark of being is not quite extinguished, and there
is hope of restoration. During a life such as we sometimes see, it has propelled half a million
tons of blood, yet repaired itself as it has wasted, during its patient, unfaltering labor.
The play of its valves and the rhythm of its throb have never failed until, at the command
of the great Master Workman, the "wheels of life have stood still." Ticktack!

THE LYMPHATIC CIRCULATION is intimately connected with that of the blood. It is, however, more
delicate in its organization, and less thoroughly understood. The larger number converge into
the thoracic duct--a small tube, about the size of a goose quill, which empties into the great
veins of the neck (Fig. 43). Along their course the lymphatics frequently pass through glands,--hard,
pinkish bodies of all sizes, from that of a hemp seed to an almond. These glands are often
enlarged by disease, and then are easily felt.

The Lymph, which circulates through the lymphatics like blood through the veins, is a thin,
colorless liquid, very like the serum. This fluid, probably in great measure an overflow from
the blood vessels, is gathered up by the lymphatics, undergoes in the glands some process of
preparation not well understood, and is then returned to the circulation.

FIG. 44.

OFFICE OF THE LYMPHATICS.--It is thought that portions of the waste matter of the body capable
of further use are thus, by a wise economy, retained and elaborated in the system.

The lacteals, a class of lymphatics which will be described under Digestion (p. 166), aid in
taking up the food; after a meal they become milk white. In the lungs, the lymphatics are abundant;
sometimes absorbing the poison of disease, and diffusing it through the system. [Footnote:
Persons have thus been poisoned by tiny particles of arsenic which evaporate from green wall
paper, and float in the air.]

The lymphatics of the skin we have already spoken of as producing the phenomena of absorption,
[Footnote: Pain is often relieved by injecting under the cuticle a solution of morphine, which
is taken up by the absorbents, and so carried through the system.] Nature in her effort to
heal a cut deposits an excess of matter to fill up the breach. Soon, the lymphatics go to work
and remove the surplus material to other parts of the body.

Animals that hibernate are supported during the winter by the fat which their absorbents carry
into the circulation from the extra supply they have laid up during the summer. In famine or
in sickness, a man unconsciously consumes his own flesh.

DISEASES, ETC.--l. Congestion is an unnatural accumulation of blood in any part of the body.
The excess is indicated by the redness. If we put our feet in hot water, the capillaries will
expand by the heat, and the blood will set that way to fill them. The red nose and purplish
face of the drunkard show a congestion of the capillaries. Those vessels have lost their power
of contraction, and so are permanently increased in size and filled with blood. Blushing is
a temporary congestion. The capillaries being expanded only for an instant by the nervous excitement,
contract again and expel the blood. [Footnote: Blushing is a purely local modification of the
circulation of this kind, and it will be instructive to consider how a blush is brought about.
An emotion--sometimes pleasurable, sometimes painful--takes possession of the mind; thereupon
a hot flush is felt, the skin grows red, and according to the intensity of the emotion these
changes are confined to the cheeks only, or extend to the "roots of the hair," or "all over."
What is the cause of these changes? The blood is a red and a hot fluid; the skin reddens and
grows hot, because its vessels contain an increased quantity of this red and hot fluid; and
its vessels contain more, because the small arteries suddenly dilate, the natural moderate
contraction of their muscles being superseded by a state of relaxation. In other words, the
action of the nerves which cause this muscular contraction is suspended. On the other hand,
in many people, extreme terror causes the skin to grow cold, and the face to appear pale and
pinched. Under these circumstances, in fact, the supply of blood to the skin is greatly diminished,
in consequence of an excessive stimulation of the nerves of the small arteries, which causes
them to contract and so to cut off the supply of blood more or less completely.-- Huxley's
Physiology.]

2. Inflammation means simply a burning. If there is irritation or an injury at any spot, the
blood sets thither and reddens it. This extra supply, both by its presence and the friction
of the swiftly moving currents, produces heat. The pressure of the distended vessels upon the
nerves frets them, and produces pain. The swelling stretches the walls of the blood vessels,
and the serum or lymph oozes through. The four characteristics of an inflammation are redness,
heat, pain, and swelling.

3. Bleeding, if from an artery, will be of red blood, and will come in jets; [Footnote: The
elasticity of the arteries (p. 114) is a physical property, as may easily be shown by removing
one from a dead body. If they were rigid and unyielding, a considerable portion of the heart's
force would be uselessly expended against their walls. Their expansion is a passive state,
and depends on the pressure of the blood within them; but their vital contractility is an active
property.--The intermittent movement of the blood through the arteries is strikingly shown
in the manner in which they bleed when wounded. When an artery is cut across, the blood spurts
out with great force to a distance of several feet, but the flow is not continuous. It escapes
in a series of jets, the long, slender scarlet stream rising and falling with each beat of
the heart, and this pulsation of the blood stream tells at once that it comes from a wounded
artery. But as the blood traverses these elastic tubes, the abruptness of the heart's stroke
becomes gradually broken and the current equalized, so that the greater the distance from the
heart the less obvious is the pulsation, until at length in the capillaries the rate of the
stream becomes uniform.] if from the veins, it will be of dark blood, and will flow in a steady
stream. If only a small vessel be severed, it may be checked by a piece of cloth held or bound
firmly upon the wound. If a large trunk be cut, especially in a limb, make a knot in a handkerchief
and tie it loosely about the limb; then, placing the knot on the limb, with a short stick twist
the handkerchief tightly enough to stop the flow. If you have a piece of cloth to use as a
pad, the knot will be unnecessary. If it be an artery that is cut, the pressure should be applied
between the wound and the heart; if a vein, beyond the wound. If you are alone, and are severely
wounded, or in an emergency, like a railroad accident, use the remedy which has saved many
a life upon the battlefield--bind or hold a handful of dry earth upon the wound, elevate the
part, and await surgical assistance.

4. Scrofula is generally inherited. It is a disease affecting the lymphatic glands, most commonly
those of the neck, forming "kernels," as they are called. It is, however, liable to attack
any organ. Persons inheriting this disease can hope to ward off its insidious approaches only
by the utmost care in diet and exercise; by the use of pure air and warm clothing, and by avoiding
late hours and undue stimulus of all kinds. Probably the most fatal and common excitants of
the latent seeds of scrofula are insufficient or improper food, and want of ventilation.

5. A COLD.--We put on a thinner dress than usual, or, when heated, sit in a cool place. The
skin is chilled, and the perspiration checked. The blood, no longer cleansed and reduced in
volume by the drainage through the pores, sets to the lungs for purification. That organ is
oppressed, breathing becomes difficult, and the extra mucus secreted by the irritated surface
of the membrane is thrown off by coughing. The mucous membrane of the nasal chamber sympathizes
with the difficulty, and we have "a cold in the head," or a catarrh. In general, the excess
of blood seeks the weakest point, and develops there any latent disease [Footnote: A party
go out for a walk and are caught in a rain, or, coming home heated from some close assembly,
throw off their coats to enjoy the deliciously cool breeze. The next day, one has a fever,
another a slight headache, another pleurisy, another pneumonia, another rheumatism, while some
of the number escape without any ill feeling whatever. The last had vital force sufficient
to withstand the disturbance, but in the others there were various weak points, and to these
the excess of blood has gone, producing congestion.] Where one person has been killed in battle,
thousands have died of colds.

To restore the equipoise must be the object of all treatment. We put the feet in hot water
and they soon become red and gorged with the blood which is thus called from the congested
organs. Hot footbaths have saved multitudes of lives. It is well in case of a sudden cold to
go immediately to bed, and with hot drinks and extra clothing open the pores, and induce free
perspiration. This calls the blood to the surface, and, by equalizing and diminishing the volume
of the circulation, affords relief. [Footnote: Severe colds may often be relieved in their
first stages by using lemons freely during the day, and taking at night fifteen or twenty grains
of sodium bromide. Great care, however, should be observed in employing the latter remedy,
except under the advice of a physician.]

6. Catarrh commonly manifests itself by the symptoms known as those of a "cold in the head,"
and is produced by the same causes. It is an inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the
nasal and bronchial passages. One going out from the hot dry air of a furnace-heated room into
the cold damp atmosphere of our climate can hardly avoid irritating and inflaming this tender
membrane. If our rooms were heated less intensely, and ventilated more thoroughly, so that
we had not the present hothouse sensitiveness to cold air, this disease would be far less universal,
and perhaps would disappear entirely. [Footnote: Dr. Gray gives the following table:

===================================================================== Rooms Occupied by Letter-press
Printers.  |   Number   |  Subject to |   per cent |  Catarrh |   Spitting | |   Blood.   |
------------------------------------------+------------+------------- 104 men having less than
500 cubic feet   |            | of air to breathe                       |     12.50  |   12.50
|            | 115 men having from 500 to 600 cubic feet |            | of air to breathe 
|      4.35  |    3.58 |            | 101 men having more than 600 cubic feet   |         
| of air to breathe                       |      3.96  |    1.98 ---------------------------------------------------------------------]
(See p. 315.)

ALCOHOLIC DRINKS AND NARCOTICS.

1. ALCOHOL.

That we may understand fully the effect of alcohol upon the human system, let us first consider
its nature and the process by which harmless fruits and grains are made to produce a substance
so unlike themselves in its deleterious effects.

HOW ALCOHOL IS MADE.--When any substance containing sugar, as fruit juice, is caused to ferment,
the elements of which the sugar is composed, viz., hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen, so rearrange
themselves as to form carbon dioxide (carbonic acid), alcohol, and certain volatile oils and
ethers. [Footnote: The precise relation between chemical phenomena and the physiological functions
of the organic ferment is still to be discovered; and all that has been said, written, and
brought forward to decide the question, need experimental proof.--SCHUTZENBERGER.] The carbonic
acid partly evaporates and partly remains in the liquor; the alcohol is the poisonous or intoxicating
principle, while the oils and ethers impart the peculiar flavor and odor. Thus wine is fermented
grape juice, and cider is fermented apple juice, each having its distinctive taste and smell,
and each containing, as one product of fermentation, more or less of the inebriating alcohol.
Wines are also made from other fruits and vegetables, such as oranges, currants, tomatoes,
and rhubarb, but the alcohol which they contain is of the same nature in all cases, whether
the fermented liquor has been manufactured in great quantities, by large presses, or by a simple
domestic process for home consumption. It is important to remember this fact, as many people
do not associate alcohol with such beverages as domestic wines and home-brewed ales, whereas
it is always present with the same treacherous qualities which attach to it everywhere. An
apple is a wholesome and useful fruit, and its simple juice, fragrant and refreshing, is a
delight to the palate; but apple juice converted into cider and allowed to enter upon alcoholic
fermentation, loses its innocence, and becomes a dangerous drink, because it is the nature
of the alcohol it now contains to create an appetite for more alcohol. (See p. 185.)

WHAT IS A FERMENT?--Ferments, of which there are many varieties in nature, are minute living
organisms analogous to the microscopic objects called bacteria or microbes, [Footnote: There
is no well-defined limit between ferments and bacteria, any more than between ferments and
fungi, or again, between fungi and bacteria. Their smaller size is the principal difference
which separates bacteria from ferments, although there are bacteria of large size, such as
are so frequently found in the mouth of even a healthy man, and which much resemble in their
mode of growth some of the lower fungi.--Trouessart.] of which we have heard much in late years,
especially in connection with the famous researches and experiments of the great French investigator,
M. Pasteur. He tells us that "Every fermentation has its specific ferment. This minute being
produces the transformation which constitutes fermentation by breathing the oxygen of the substance
to be fermented, or by appropriating for an instant the whole substance, then destroying it
by what may be termed the secretion of the fermented products." [Footnote: What we call spontaneous
fermentation often occurs, as when apple juice turns to hard cider by simple exposure to the
air. Science teaches us, however, that this change is always effected by the action of the
busy little ferments which, wandering about, drop into the liquid, begin their rapid propagation,
and, in the act of growing, evolve the products of the fermentation. "If the above liquids
be left only in contact with air which has been passed through a red-hot platinum tube, and
thus the living sporules destroyed; or if the air be simply filtered by passing through cotton
wool, and the sporules prevented from coming into the liquid, it is found that these fermentable
liquids may be preserved for any length of time without undergoing the slightest change."--Roscoe.]
The effect, therefore, of fermentation is to change entirely the character of the substance
upon which it acts; hence it is an error to assume that fermented liquors, as beer, wine, and
cider, are safe drinks because the grains or fruits from which they are produced are healthful
foods.

YEAST is a ferment which causes alcoholic fermentation. It consists of microscopic plants,
which increase by the formation of multitudes of tiny cells not more than 1/2400 of an inch
in diameter. In the brewing of beer they grow in great abundance, making common brewer's yeast.
Ferments or their spores float in the air ready to enter any fermentable liquid, and under
favorable conditions they multiply with great activity and energy. The favorable conditions
include the presence of oxygen or sugar; [Footnote: Yeast, like ordinary plants, buds and multiplies
even in the absence of fermentable sugar, when it is furnished with free oxygen. This multiplication,
however, is favored by the presence of sugar, which is a more appropriate element than non-fermentable
hydrocarbon compounds. Yeast is also able to bud and multiply in the absence of free oxygen,
but in this case a fermentable substance is indispensable.--SCHUTZENBERGER'S Fermentation.]
oxygen being, as we know, necessary for the development and the reproduction of all cell life
(p. 107), and ferments having the power to resolve sugar, which penetrates by endosmose into
the interior of the cell, into alcohol, carbonic acid, glycerine, succinic acid, and oxygen.

BEER.--The barley used for making beer is first malted, i. e., sprouted, to turn a part of
its starch into sugar. When this process has gone far enough, it is checked by heating the
grain in a kiln until the germ is destroyed. The malt is then crushed, steeped, and fermented
with hops and yeast. The sugar gradually disappears, alcohol is formed, and carbonic acid escapes
into the air. The beer is then put into casks, where it undergoes a second, slower fermentation,
and the carbonic acid gathers; when the liquor is drawn, this gas bubbles to the surface, giving
to the beer its sparkling, foamy look.

WINE is generally made from the juice of the grape. The juice, or must, as it is called, is
placed in vats in the cellar, where the low temperature favors a slow fermentation. If all
the sugar be converted into alcohol and carbonic-acid gas, a dry wine will remain; if the fermentation
be checked, a sweet wine will result; and if the wine be bottled while the change is still
going on, a brisk effervescing liquor like champagne, will be formed. All these are dangerous
beverages because of the alcohol they contain.

DISTILLATION.--Alcohol is so volatile that, by the application of heat, it can be driven off
as a vapor from the fermented liquid in which it has been produced. Steam and various fragrant
substances will accompany it, and, if they are collected and condensed in a cool receiver,
a new and stronger liquor will be formed, having a distinctive odor.

In this way whiskey is distilled from fermented corn, rye, barley, or potatoes; the alcohol
of commerce is distilled from whiskey; brandy, from wine; rum, from fermented molasses; and
gin, from fermented barley and rye, afterward distilled with juniper berries.

VARIETIES AND PROPERTIES OF ALCOHOL.--There are several varieties of alcohol produced from
distillation of various substances. Thus Methyl Alcohol is obtained from the decomposition
of hard wood when exposed to intense heat with little or no oxygen present. It is a light,
volatile liquid, which closely resembles ordinary alcohol in all its properties. It is used
in the manufacture of aniline dyes, in making varnishes, and for burning in spirit lamps. Amyl
Alcohol [Footnote: The odor of amylic alcohol is sweet, nauseous, and heavy. The sensation
of its presence remains long. In taste it is burning and acrid, and it is itself practically
insoluble in water. When it is diluted with common alcohol it dissolves freely in water, and
gives a soft and rather unctuous flavor, I may call it a fruity flavor, something like that
of ripe pears. Amyl alcohol, introduced as an adulterant, is an extremely dangerous addition
to ordinary alcohol, in whatever form it is presented. From the quantities of it imported into
this country, it is believed to be employed largely in the adulteration of wines and spirits.--RICHARDSON.]
is the chief constituent of "fusel oil," found in whiskey distilled from potatoes. It is often
present in common alcohol, giving a slightly unpleasant odor when it evaporates from the hand.
Fusel oil is extremely poisonous and lasting in its effects, so that when contained in liquors
it greatly increases their destructive and intoxicating properties.

Ethyl Alcohol, which is that which we have described as obtained from fermentation of fruits
and grains, is the ordinary alcohol of commerce. We have spoken of its volatility. This property
permits it to pass into vapor at 56 degrees Fahr. It boils at 173 degrees Fahr. (Water boils
at 212 degrees.) Like Methyl Alcohol, it burns without smoke and with great heat, [Footnote:
Pour a little alcohol into a saucer and apply an ignited match. The liquid will suddenly take
fire, burning with intense heat, but feeble light. In this process, alcohol takes up oxygen
from the air, forming carbonic-acid gas, and water.--Hold a red-hot coil of platinum wire in
a goblet containing a few drops of alcohol, and a peculiar odor will be noticed. It denotes
the formation of aldehyde--a substance produced in the slow oxidation of alcohol. Still further
oxidized, the alcohol would be changed into acetic acid--the sour principle of vinegar.--Put
the white of an egg--nearly pure albumen--into a cup, and pour upon it some alcohol, or even
strong brandy; the fluid albumen will coagulate, becoming hard and solid. In this connection,
it is well to remember that albumen is contained in our food, while the brain is largely an
albuminous substance.] and is therefore of much value in the arts. Its great solvent power
over fats and mixed oils renders it a useful agent in many industrial operations. It is also
a powerful antiseptic, and no one who visits a museum of natural history will be likely to
forget the rows of bottles within which float reptilian and batrachian specimens, preserved
in alcohol.

To alcohol, also, we are indebted for various anesthetic agents, which, when not abused (p.
340), are of inestimable value. Thus, if certain proportions of alcohol and nitric acid be
mixed together and heated, nitrite of amyl, so serviceable in relieving the agonizing spasms
peculiar to that dread disease, angina pectoris, will be obtained. If, instead of nitric, we
use sulphuric acid, we shall get ether; if chlorine be passed through alcohol, hydrate of chloral
is the result; and, if chloride of lime and alcohol be treated together, the outcome is chloroform.

One of the most striking properties of alcohol, and one which we shall hereafter consider in
its disastrous effects upon the tissues of our body, is its affinity for water. [Footnote:
Suppose, then, a certain measure of alcohol be taken into the stomach, it will be absorbed
there, but, previous to absorption, it will have to undergo a proper degree of dilution with
water; for there is this peculiarity respecting alcohol when it is separated by an animal membrane
from a watery fluid like the blood, that it will not pass through the membrane until it has
become charged, to a given point of dilution, with water. Alcohol is itself, in fact, so greedy
for water that it will pick it up from watery textures, and deprive them of it until, by its
saturation, its power of reception is exhausted, after which it will diffuse into the current
of circulating fluid.

To illustrate this fact of dilution I perform a simple experiment. Into a bladder is placed
a mixture consisting of equal parts of alcohol and distilled water. Into the neck of the bladder
a long glass tube is inserted and firmly tied. Then the bladder is immersed in a saline fluid
representing an artificial serum of blood. The result is, that the alcohol in the bladder absorbs
water from the surrounding saline solution, and thereby a column of fluid passes up into the
glass tube. A second mixture of alcohol and water, in the proportion this time of one part
of alcohol to two of water, is put into another bladder immersed in like manner in an artificial
serum. In this instance a little fluid also passes from the outside into the bladder, so that
there is a rise of water in the tube, but less than in the previous instance. A third mixture,
consisting of one part of alcohol with three parts of water, is placed in another little bladder,
and is also suspended in the artificial serum. In this case there is, for a time, a small rise
of fluid in the tube connected with the bladder; but after a while, owing to the dilution which
took place, a current from within outward sets in, and the tube becomes empty. Thus each bladder
charged originally with the same quantity of fluid contains at last a different quantity. The
first contains more than it did originally, the second only a little more, the third a little
less. From the third, absorption takes place, and if I keep changing and replacing the outer
fluid which surrounds the bladder with fresh serum, I can in time, owing to the double current
of water into the bladder through its coats, and of water and alcohol out of the bladder into
the serum, remove all the alcohol. In this way it is removed from the stomach into the circulating
blood after it has been swallowed. When we dilute alcohol with water before drinking it, we
quicken its absorption. If we do not dilute it sufficiently, it is diluted in the stomach by
transudation of water in the stomach, until the required reduction for its absorption; the
current then sets in toward the blood, and passes into the circulating canals by the veins.--RICHARDSON.]
When strong alcohol is exposed to the air, it absorbs moisture and becomes diluted; at the
same time, the spirit itself evaporates. The commercial or proof spirit is about one half water;
the strongest holds five per cent; and to obtain absolute or waterless alcohol, requires careful
distillation in connection with some substance, as lime, that has a still greater affinity
for water, and so can despoil the alcohol.

ALCOHOL IN ITS DESTRUCTIVE RELATION TO PLANT AND ANIMAL LIFE.--If we pour a little quantity
of strong spirits upon a growing plant in our garden or conservatory, we shall soon see it
shrivel and die. If we apply it to insects or small reptiles which we may have captured for
specimens in our cabinet, the same potent poison will procure for them a speedy death. If we
force one of our domestic animals to take habitual doses of it, the animal will not only strongly
protest against the unnatural and nauseous potion, but it will gradually sicken and lose all
power for usefulness. [Footnote: "The effects produced by alcohol are common, so far as I can
discover, to every animal. It comprises from six to eight per cent of ale and porter, seven
to seventeen per cent of wine, and forty to fifty per cent of brandy and whiskey. All these
may therefore be considered as alcohol more or less diluted with water and flavored with various
aromatics. The taste of different liquors--as brandy, gin, beer, cider, etc.--may vary greatly,
but they all produce certain physiological effects, due to their common ingredient--alcohol.
"In whatever form it enters," says Dr. Richardson, "whether as spirit, wine, or ale, matters
little when its specific influence is kept steadily in view. In other words, the poisonous
nature of alcohol, and the effects which result when it is taken into the stomach, are definite
and immutable facts, which are not dependent upon any particular name or disguise under which
the poison finds entrance.

We shall learn, as we study the influence of alcohol upon the human system, that one of its
most subtle characteristics is the progressive appetite for itself (p. 185) which it induces,
an appetite which, in many cases, is formed long before its unhappy subject is aware of his
danger. The intelligent pupil, who knows how to reason from cause to effect, needs hardly to
be told, in view of this physical truth, of the peril that lies in the first draught of any
fermented liquor, even though it be so seemingly harmless as a glass of home-brewed beer or
"slightly-beaded" cider. Few of us really understand our own inherent weakness or the hereditary
proclivities (p. 186) that may be lurking in our blood, ready to master us when opportunity
invites; but we may be tolerably certain that if we resolutely refuse to tamper with cider,
beer, or wine, we shall not fall into temptation before rum, gin, or brandy. Since we know
that in all fermented beverages there is present the same treacherous element, alcohol, we
are truly wise only when we decline to measure arms in any way with an enemy so seductive in
its advances, so insidious in its influence, and so terrible in its triumph. [Footnote: Aside
from all considerations of physical, mental, and moral injury wrought by the use of alcoholic
drinks, every young man may well take into account the damaging effect of such a dangerous
habit upon his business prospects. Careful business men are becoming more and more unwilling
to take into their employ any person addicted to liquor drinking. Within the past few years
the officers of several railroads, having found that a considerable portion of their losses
could be directly traced to the drinking habits of some one or more of their employes, have
ordered the dismissal of all persons in their service who were known to use intoxicants, with
the additional provision that persons thus discharged should never be reinstated. Many Eastern
manufactories have adopted similar rules. All mercantile agencies now report the habits of
business men in this respect, and some life insurance companies refuse to insure habitual drinkers,
regarding such risks as "extra-hazardous."]

Let us now consider the physiological effects of alcohol upon the organs immediately connected
with the circulation of the blood.

GENERAL EFFECT OF ALCOHOL UPON THE CIRCULATION.--During the experiment described on page 118,
the influence of alcohol upon the blood may be beautifully tested. Place on the web of the
frog's foot a drop of dilute spirit. The blood vessels immediately expand--an effect known
as "Vascular enlargement." Channels before unseen open, and the blood disks fly along at a
brisker rate. Next, touch the membrane with a drop of pure spirit. The blood channels quickly
contract; the cells slacken their speed; and, finally, all motion ceases. The flesh shrivels
up and dies. The circulation thus stopped is stopped forever. The part affected will in time
slough off. Alcohol has killed it.

The influence of alcohol upon the human system is very similar. When strong, as in spirits,
it acts as an irritant, narcotic poison (p. 142, note). Diluted, as in fermented liquors, it
dilates the blood vessels, quickens the circulation, hastens the heart throbs, and accelerates
the respiration.

THE EFFECT OF ALCOHOL UPON THE HEART.--What means this rapid flow of the blood? It shows that
the heart is overworking. The nerves that lead to the minute capillaries and regulate the passage
of the vital current through the extreme parts of the body, are paralyzed by this active narcotic.
The tiny blood vessels at once expand. This "Vascular enlargement" removes the resistance to
the passage of the blood, and a rapid beating of the heart results. [Footnote: Dr. B. W. Richardson's
experiments tend to prove that this apparently stimulating action of alcohol upon the heart
is due to the paralysis of the nerves that control the capillaries (Note, p. 208), which ordinarily
check the flow of the blood (p. 117). The heart, like other muscles under the influence of
alcohol, really loses power, and contracts less vigorously (p. 183). Dr. Palmer, of the University
of Michigan, also claimed that alcohol, in fact, diminishes the strength of the heart. Prof.
Martin, of Johns Hopkins University, from a series of carefully conducted experiments upon
dogs, concluded that blood containing one fourth per cent of alcohol almost invariably diminishes
within a minute the work done by the heart; blood containing one half per cent always diminishes
it, and may reduce the amount pumped out by the left ventricle so that it is not sufficient
to supply the coronary arteries. One hundred years ago, alcohol was always spoken of as a stimulant.
Modern experiment and investigation challenged that definition, and it is now classified as
a narcotic. There are, however, able physicians who maintain that, taken in small doses, and
under certain physical conditions, it has the effect of a stimulant. All agree that, when taken
in any amount, it tends to create an appetite for more.]

Careful experiments show that two ounces of alcohol--an amount contained in the daily potations
of a very moderate ale or whiskey drinker--increase the heart beats six thousand in twenty-four
hours;--a degree of work represented by that of lifting up a weight of seven tons to a height
of one foot. Reducing this sum to ounces and dividing, we find that the heart is driven to
do extra work equivalent to lifting seven ounces one foot high one thousand four hundred and
ninety-three times each hour! No wonder that the drinker feels a reaction, a physical languor,
after the earliest effects of his indulgence have passed away. The heart flags, the brain and
the muscles feel exhausted, and rest and sleep are imperatively demanded. During this time
of excitement, the machinery of life has really been "running down." "It is hard work," says
Richardson, "to fight against alcohol; harder than rowing, walking, wrestling, coal heaving,
or the treadmill itself."

All this is only the first effect of alcohol upon the heart. Long- continued use of this disturbing
agent causes a "Degeneration of the muscular fiber," [Footnote: This "Degeneration" of the
various tissues of the body, we shall find, as we proceed, is one of the most marked effects
of alcoholized blood. The change consists in an excess of liquid, or, more commonly, in a deposit
of fat. This fatty matter is not an increase of the organ, but it takes the place of a part
of its fiber, thus weakening the structure, and reducing the power of the tissue to perform
its function. Almost everywhere in the body we thus find cells--muscle cells, liver cells,
nerve cells, as the case may be--changing one by one, under the influence of this potent disorganizer,
into unhealthy fat cells. "Alcohol has been well termed," says the London Lancet, "the 'Genius
of Degeneration.'"

The cause of this degeneration can be easily explained. The increased activity of the circulation
compels a correspondingly increased activity of the cell changes: but the essential condition
of healthful change--the presence of additional oxygen--is wanting (see p. 143), and the operation
is imperfectly performed.--BRODIE.] so that the heart loses its old power to drive the blood,
and, after a time, fails to respond even to the spur of the excitant that has urged it to ruin.

INFLUENCE UPON THE MEMBRANES.--The flush of the face and the bloodshot eye, that are such noticeable
effects of even a small quantity of liquor, indicate the condition of all the internal organs.
The delicate linings of the stomach, heart, brain, liver, and lungs are reddened, and every
tiny vein is inflamed, like the blushing nose itself. If the use of liquor is habitual, this
"Vascular enlargement," that at first slowly passed away after each indulgence, becomes permanent,
and now the discolored, blotched skin reveals the state of the entire mucous membrane.

We learned on page 55 what a peculiar office the membrane fills in nourishing the organs it
enwraps. Anything that disturbs its delicate structure must mar its efficiency. Alcohol has
a wonderful affinity for water. To satisfy this greed, it will absorb moisture from the tissues
with which it comes in contact, as well as from their lubricating juices. The enlargement of
the blood vessels and their permanent congestion must interfere with the filtering action of
the membrane. In time, all the membranes become dry, thickened, and hardened; they then shrink
upon the sensitive nerve, or stiffen the joint, or enfeeble the muscle. The function of these
membranes being deranged, they will not furnish the organs with perfected material, and the
clogged pores will no longer filter their natural fluids. Every organ in the body will feel
this change.

EFFECT UPON THE BLOOD. [Footnote: Alcohol acts upon the oxygen carrier, the coloring matter
of the red corpuscles, causing it to settle in one part of the globule, or even to leave the
corpuscle, and deposit itself in other elements of the blood. Thus the red corpuscle may become
colorless, distorted, shrunken, and even entirely broken up--Dr. G. B. HARRIMAN.]-- From the
stomach, alcohol passes directly into the circulation, and so, in a few minutes, is swept through
the entire system. If it be present in sufficient amount and strength, its eager desire for
water will lead it to absorb moisture from the red corpuscles, causing them to shrink, change
their form, harden, and lose some of their ability to carry oxygen; it may even make them adhere
in masses, and so hinder their passage through the tiny capillaries.--RICHARDSON.

With most persons who indulge freely in alcoholic drinks, the blood is thin, the avidity of
alcohol for water causing the burning thirst so familiar to all drinkers, and hence the use
of enormous quantities of water, oftener of beer, which unnaturally dilutes the blood. The
blood then easily flows from a wound, and renders an accident or surgical operation very dangerous.

When the blood tends, as in other cases of an excessive use of spirits, to coagulate in the
capillaries, [Footnote: The blood is rendered unduly thin, or is coagulated, according to the
amount of alcohol that is carried into the circulatory system. "The spirit may fix the water
with the fibrin, and thus destroy the power of coagulation; or it may extract the water so
determinately as to produce coagulation. This explains why, in acute cases of poisoning by
alcohol, the blood is sometimes found quite fluid, at other times firmly coagulated in the
vessels."--B. W. RICHARDSON.]

Reckless persons have sometimes drunk a large quantity of liquor for a wager, and, as the result
of their folly, have died instantly. The whole of the blood in the heart having coagulated,
the circulation was stopped, and death inevitably ensued.] there is a liability of an obstruction
to the flow of the vital current through the heart, liver, lungs, etc., that may cause disease,
and in the brain may lay the foundation of paralysis, or, in extreme cases, of apoplexy.

Wherever the alcoholized blood goes through the body, it bathes the delicate cells with an
irritating narcotic poison, instead of a bland, nutritious substance.

EFFECT UPON THE LUNGS.--Here we can see how certainly the presence of alcohol interferes with
the red corpuscles in their task of carrying oxygen. "Even so small a quantity as one part
of alcohol to five hundred of the blood will materially check the absorption of oxygen in the
lungs."

The cells, unable to take up oxygen, retain their carbonic-acid gas, and so return from the
lungs, carrying back, to poison the system, the refuse matter the body has sought to throw
off. Thus the lungs no longer furnish properly oxygenized blood.

The rapid stroke of the heart, already spoken of, is followed by a corresponding quickening
of the respiration. The flush of the cheek is repeated in the reddened mucous membrane lining
the lungs.

When this "Vascular enlargement" becomes permanent, and the highly albuminous membrane of the
air cells is hardened and thickened as well as congested, the Osmose of the gases to and fro
through its pores can no longer be prompt and free as before. Even when the effect passes off
in a few days after the occasional indulgence, there has been, during that time, a diminished
supply of the life-giving oxygen furnished to the system; weakness follows, and, in the case
of hard drinkers, there is a marked liability to epidemics. [Footnote: There is no doubt that
alcohol alters and impairs tissues so that they are more prone to disease.--DR. G. K. SABINE.
A volume of statistics could be filled with quotations like the following: "Mr. Huber, who
saw in one town in Russia two thousand one hundred and sixty persons perish with the cholera
in twenty days, said: 'It is a most remarkable circumstance that persons given to drink have
been swept away like flies. In Tiflis, with twenty thousand inhabitants, every drunkard has
fallen,--all are dead, not one remaining.'"]

Physicians tell us, also, that there is a peculiar form of consumption known as Alcoholic Phthisis
caused by long-continued and excessive use of liquor. It generally attacks those whose splendid
physique has enabled them to "drink deep" with apparent impunity. This type of consumption
appears late in life and is considered incurable. Severe cases of pneumonia are also generally
fatal with inebriates. [Footnote: The Influence of Alcohol is continued in the chapter on Digestion.]

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. Why does a dry, cold atmosphere favorably affect catarrh?

2. Why should we put on extra covering when we lie down to sleep?

3. Is it well to throw off our coats or shawls when we come in heated from a long walk?

4. Why are close-fitting collars or neckties injurious?

5. Which side of the heart is the more liable to inflammation?

6. What gives the toper his red nose?

7. Why does not the arm die when the surgeon ties the principal artery leading to it?

8. When a fowl is angry, why does its comb redden?

9. Why does a fat man endure cold better than a lean one?

10. Why does one become thin, during a long sickness?

11. What would you do if you should come home "wet to the skin"?

12. When the cold air strikes the face, why does it first blanch and then flush?

13. What must be the effect of tight lacing upon the circulation of the blood?

14. Do you know the position of the large arteries in the limbs, so that in case of accident
you could stop the flow of blood?

15. When a person is said to be good-hearted, is it a physical truth?

16. Why does a hot footbath relieve the headache?

17. Why does the body of a drowned or strangled person turn blue?

18. What are the little "kernels" in the armpits?

19. When we are excessively warm, would the thermometer show any rise of temperature in the body?

20. What forces besides that of the heart aid in propelling the blood?

21. Why can the pulse be best felt in the wrist? 22. Why are starving people exceedingly sensitive
to any jar?

23. Why will friction, an application of horse-radish leaves, or a blister relieve internal
congestion?

24. Why are students very liable to cold feet?

25. Is the proverb that "blood is thicker than water" literally true?

26. What is the effect upon the circulation of "holding the breath"?

27. Which side of the heart is the stronger?

28. How is the heart itself nourished? [Footnote: The coronary artery, springing from the aorta
just after its origin, carries blood to the muscular walls of the heart; the venous blood comes
back through the coronary veins, and empties directly into the right auricle.]

29. Does any venous blood reach the heart without coming through the vene cave?

30. What would you do, in the absence of a surgeon, in the case of a severe wound? (See p. 258.)

31. What would you do in the case of a fever? (See p. 263.)

32. What is the most injurious effect of alcohol upon the blood?

33. Are our bodies the same from day to day?

34. Show how life comes by death.

35. Is not the truth just stated as applicable to moral and intellectual, as to physical life?

36. What vein begins and ends with capillaries? Ans. The portal vein commences with capillaries
in the digestive organs, and ends with the same kind of vessels in the liver. (See p. 166.)

37. By what process is alcohol always formed? Does it exist in nature?

38. What percentage of alcohol is contained in the different kinds of liquor?

39. Does cider possess the same intoxicating principle as brandy?

40. Describe the general properties of alcohol.

41. Show that alcohol is a narcotic poison.

42. If alcohol is not a stimulant, how does it cause the heart to overwork?

43. Why is the skin of a drunkard always red and blotched?

44. What danger is there in occasionally using alcoholic drinks?

45. What is meant by a fatty degeneration of the heart?

46. What keeps the blood in circulation between the beats of the heart?

47. What is the office of the capillaries? (See note, p. 373.)

48. Does alcohol interfere with this function?

49. How does alcohol interfere with the regular office of the membranes?

50. How does it check the process of oxidation?

VI.

DIGESTION AND FOOD.

"A man puts some ashes in a hill of corn and thereby doubles its yield. Then he says, 'My ashes
have I turned into corn.' Weak from his labor, he eats of his corn, and new life comes to him.
Again, he says, 'I have changed my corn into a man.' This also he feels to be the truth.

"It is the problem of the body, remember, that we are discussing. A man is more than the body;
to confound the body and the man is worse than confounding the body and the clothing."--JOHN DARBY.

ANALYSIS OF DIGESTION AND FOOD

| 1. WHY WE NEED FOOD. | | 2. WHAT FOOD DOES. |                                           |
| 1. Nitrogenous.    |a. The Sugars. | 3. KINDS OF FOOD....| 2. Carbonaceous....|b. The Fats.
|                     |3. Minerals |                       | 4. ONE KIND is INSUFFICIENT. |
| 5. OBJECT OF DIGESTION. |                       |                     |   --General Description
|                     |                          |                     | 1. Mastication and
| a. The Saliva. |                     |    Insalvation......| b. Process of |            
|                     |      Swallowing. |                     |                        | 
|                     | a. The Stomach. |                     | 2. Gastric          | b. The
Gastric |                     |    Digestion........|       Juice. |                     |
|c. The Chyme | 6. PROCESSES OF     |                       |    DIGESTION........|       
|   --Description |                     |                     | a. The Bile |             
| 3. Intestional      | b. The Pancreatic |                     |    Digestion........|   
Juice. |                     |                     | c. The Small |                     | 
|      Intestine. |                     |                       |                     |   
| a. By the Veins. |                     | 4. Absorption.......| b. By the |              
|                    |      Lacteals. | | 7. COMPLEXITY OF THE PROCESS OF DIGESTION. |    
|                     | 1. Length of Time required. |                     |               
|                     |                     | a. Beef. |                     |            
| b. Mutton. |                     |                     | c. Lamb. |                     |
2. Value of dif-    | d. Pork. |                     |     ferent kinds    | e. Fish. |   
|     of food.........| f. Milk. |                     |                     | g. Cheese. |
|                     |h. Eggs, etc. |                     |                       | 8. HYGIENE..........|
| a. Coffee. |                     | 3. The Stimulants...| b. Tea. |                     |
|C. Chocolate. |                     | 4. Cooking of Food. |                     | 5. Rapid
Eating. |                     | 6. Quantity and Quality of Food. |                     | 7.
When Food should be taken. |                     | 8. How Food should be taken. |         
|9. Need of a Variety | | 9. THE WONDERS OF DIGESTION. |                       |          
| 1. Dyspepsia. | 10. DISEASES........|2. The Mumps. |                       |            
| 1. Is Alcohol a Food? |                     | 2. Effect upon the Digestion. |           
| 3. Effect upon the Liver. | 11. ALCOHOLIC       | 4. Effect upon the Kidneys. |     DRINKS
AND      | 5. Does Alcohol impart heat? |     NARCOTICS.......| 6. Does Alcohol impart strength?
|                    | 7. The Effect upon the Waste of the Body. | 8. Alcohol creates a progressive
appetite |     for itself. |9. Law of Heredity.

DIGESTION AND FOOD.

WHY WE NEED FOOD.--We have learned that our bodies are constantly giving off waste matter--the
products of the fire, or oxidation, as the chemist terms the change going on within us (Note,
p. 107). A man without food will starve to death in a few days, i. e., the oxygen will have
consumed all the available flesh of his body. [Footnote: The stories current in the newspapers
of persons who live for years without food, are, of course, untrue. The case of the Welsh Fasting
Girl, which excited general interest throughout Great Britain, and was extensively copied in
our own press, is in point. She had succeeded in deceiving not only the public, but, as some
claim, her own parents. At last a strict watch was set by day and night, precluding the possibility
of her receiving any food except at the hands of the committee, from whom she steadily refused
it. In a few days she died from actual starvation. The youth of the girl, the apparent honesty
of the parents, and the tragical sequel, make it one of the most remarkable cases of the kind
on record.] To replace the daily outgo, we need about two and a quarter pounds of food, and
three pints of drink. [Footnote: Every cell in the tissues is full of matter ready to set free
at call its stored-up energy--derived from the meat, bread, and vegetables we have eaten. This
energy will pass off quietly when the organs are in comparative rest, but violently when the
muscles contract with force. When we send an order through a nerve to any part of the body,
a series of tiny explosions run the entire length of the nerve, just as fire runs through a
train of gunpowder. The muscle receives the stimulus, and, contracting, liberates its energy.
The cells of nerve or muscle, whose contents have thus exploded, as it were, are useless, and
must be carried off by the blood, just as ashes must be swept from the hearth, and new fuel
be supplied to keep up a fire.]

Including the eight hundred pounds of oxygen taken from the air, a man uses in a year about
a ton and a half of material. [Footnote: The following is the daily ration of a United States
soldier. It is said to be the most generous in the world:

Bread or flour   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  22 ounces. Fresh or salt beef (or pork
or bacon, 12 oz.)  .    20    " Potatoes (three times per week)  .   .   .   .   .  16    "
Rice   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     1.6  " Coffee (or tea, 0.24 oz.)    .
.   .   .   .   .   1.6  " Sugar  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     2.4  " Beans
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   0.64 gill. Vinegar    .   .   .   .   .   .   .
.   .   .     0.32  " Salt .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   0.16  "]

Yet during this entire time his weight may have been nearly uniform. [Footnote: If, however,
he were kept on the scale pan of a sensitive balance, he would find that his weight is constantly
changing, increasing with each meal, and then gradually decreasing.] Our bodies are but molds,
in which a certain quantity of matter, checked for a time on its ceaseless round, receives
a definite form. They may be likened, says Huxley, to an eddy in the river, which retains its
shape for a while, yet every instant each particle of water is changing.

WHAT FOOD DOES.--We make no force ourselves. We can only use that which nature provides for
us. [Footnote: We draw from Nature at once our substance, and the force by which we operate
upon her; being, so far, parts of her great system, immersed in it for a short time and to
a small extent. Enfolding us, as it were, within her arms, Nature lends us her forces to expend;
we receive them, and pass them on, giving them the impress of our will, and bending them to
our designs, for a little while; and then--Yes; then it is all one. The great procession pauses
not, nor flags a moment, for our fall. The powers which Nature lent to us she resumes to herself,
or lends, it may be, to another; the use which we have made of them, or might have made and
did not, is written in her book forever.--Health and its Conditions.] All our strength comes
from the food we eat. Food is force--that is, it contains a latent power which it gives up
when it is decomposed. [Footnote: This force is chemical affinity. It binds together the molecules
which compose the food we eat. When oxygen tears the molecules to pieces and makes them up
into smaller ones, the force is set free. As we shall learn in Physics, it can be turned, into
heat, muscular motion, electricity, etc. The principle that the different kinds of force can
be changed into one another without loss, is called the Conservation of Energy, and is one
of the grandest discoveries of modern science.--Popular Physics, pages 35, 39, 278.] Oxygen
is the magic key which unlocks for our use this hidden store. [Footnote: We have spoken of
the mystery that envelops the process of the conversion of food force into muscular force (note,
p. 107). All physiologists agree that muscular power has its source in the chemical decomposition
of certain substances whereby their potential energy is released. Probably some of the food
undergoes this chemical change before it passes out of the alimentary canal; possibly some
is broken up by the oxygen while it is being swept along by the blood; but, probably by far
the largest part is converted into the various tissues of the body, and finally becomes a waste
product only after there takes place in the tissue itself that chemical disorganization that
sets free its stored-up power.-- FOSTER'S Physiology.] Putting food into our bodies is like
placing a tense spring within a watch; every motion of the body is only a new direction given
to this food force, as every movement of the hand on the dial is but the manifestation of the
power of the bent spring in the watch. We use the pent-up energies of meat, bread, and vegetables
which are placed at our service, and transfer them to a higher theater of action. [Footnote:
It is a grand thought that we can thus transform what is common and gross into the refined
and spiritual; that out of waving wheat, wasting flesh, running water, and dead minerals, we
can realize the glorious possibilities of human life.]

KINDS OF FOOD NEEDED.--From what has been said it is clear that, in order to produce heat and
force, we need something that will burn, i. e., with which oxygen can combine. Experiment has
proved that to build up every organ, and keep the body in the best condition, we require three
kinds of food.

1. Nitrogenous Food.--As nitrogen is a prominent constituent of the tissues of the body, food
which contains it is therefore necessary to their growth and repair. [Footnote: Since this
kind of food closely resembles albumen, it is sometimes called Albuminous. The term Proteid
is also used.] The most common forms are whites of eggs--which are nearly pure albumen; casein--the
chief constituent of cheese; lean meat; and gluten--the viscid substance which gives tenacity
to dough. Bodies having a great deal of nitrogen readily oxidize. Hence the peculiar character
of the quick-changing, force-exciting muscle.

2. Carbonaceous Food--i. e., food containing much carbon-- consists of two kinds, viz., the
sugars, and the fats.

(1) The sugars contain hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion to form water, and about the same
amount of carbon. They may, therefore, be considered as water, with carbon diffused through
it. In digestion, starch and gum are changed to sugar, and so are ranked with this class.

(2) The fats are like the sugars in composition, but contain less oxygen, and not in the proportion
to form water. They combine with more oxygen in burning, and so give off more heat.

The non-nitrogenous elements of the food have, however, other uses than to develop heat. [Footnote:
The heat they produce in burning may be turned into motion of the muscles, according to the
principle of the Conservation of Energy (p. 153, note); while all the structures of the body
in their oxidation develop heat.] Fat is essential to the assimilation of the food, while sugar
and starch aid in digestion and may be converted into fat. [Footnote: In Turkey, the ladies
of the harem are fed on honey and thick gruel, to make flesh, which is considered to enhance
their beauty. The negroes on the sugar plantations of the South always grow fat during the
sugar-making season.] Fat and carbonaceous material both enter into the composition of the
various tissues, and when, by the breaking up of the contractile substance of the muscle, their
latent energy is set free, they become the source of muscular force, as well as heat. While
the tendency of the albuminous food is to excite chemical action, and hence the release of
energy, the fats and carbonaceous food may be laid up in the body to serve as a storehouse
of energy to supply future needs.

3. Mineral Matters.--Food should contain water, and certain common minerals, such as iron,
[Footnote: While the body can build up a solid from liquid materials on the one hand, on the
other it can pour iron through its veins and reduce the hardest textures to blood.--HINTON.]
sulphur, magnesia, phosphorus, salt, and potash. About three pints of water are needed daily
to dissolve the food and carry it through the circulation, to float off waste matter, to lubricate
the tissues, and by evaporation to cool the system (see p. 317). It also enters largely into
the composition of the body. A man weighing one hundred and fifty-four pounds contains one
hundred pounds of water, about twelve gallons--enough, if rightly arranged, to drown him. [Footnote:
It is said that Blumenbach had a perfect mummy of an adult Teneriffian, which with the viscera
weighed only seven and a half pounds.]

Iron goes to the blood disks; lime combines with phosphoric and carbonic acids to give solidity
to the bones and teeth; phosphorus is essential to the activity of the brain. Salt is necessary
to the secretion of some of the digestive fluids, and also to aid in working off from the system
its waste products. These various minerals, except iron--sometimes given as a medicine, and
salt--universally used as a condiment, [Footnote: Animals will travel long distances to obtain
salt. Men will barter gold for it; indeed, among the Gallas and on the coast of Sierra Leone,
brothers will sell their sisters, husbands their wives, and parents their children for salt.
In the district of Accra, on the gold coast of Africa, a handful of salt is the most valuable
thing upon earth after gold, and will purchase a slave. Mungo Park tells us that with the Mandingoes
and Bambaras the use of salt is such a luxury that to say of a man "he flavors his food with
salt," it is to imply that he is rich; and children will suck a piece of rock salt as if it
were sugar. No stronger mark of respect or affection can be shown in Muscovy, than the sending
of salt from the tables of the rich to their poorer friends. In the book of Leviticus it is
expressly commanded as one of the ordinances of Moses, that every oblation of meat upon the
altar shall be seasoned with salt, without lacking; and hence it is called the Salt of the
Covenant of God. The Greeks and Romans also used salt in their sacrificial cakes; and it is
still used in the services of the Latin church--the "parva mica" or pinch of salt, being in
the ceremony of baptism, put into the child's mouth, while the priest says, "Receive the salt
of wisdom, and may it be a propitiation to thee for eternal life." Everywhere and almost always,
indeed, it has been regarded as emblematical of wisdom, wit, and immortality. To taste a man's
salt, was to be bound by the rites of hospitality; and no oath was more solemn than that which
was sworn upon bread and salt. To sprinkle the meat with salt was to drive away the devil,
and to this day, nothing is more unlucky than to spill the salt.--LETHEBY, On Food.] are contained
in small, but sufficient quantities in meat, bread, and vegetables.

ONE KIND OF FOOD IS INSUFFICIENT.--A person fed on starch alone, would die. It would be a clear
case of nitrogen starvation. On the other hand, as nitrogenous food contains carbon, the elements
of water, and various mineral matters, life could be supported on that alone. But such a prodigious
quantity of lean meat, for example, would be required to furnish the other elements, that not
only would it be very expensive, but it is likely that after a time the labor of digestion
would be too onerous, and the system would give up the task in despair. The need of a diet
containing both nitrogenous and carbonaceous elements is shown in the fact that even in the
tropical regions oil is relished as a dressing upon salad. Instinct everywhere suggests the
blending. Butter is used with bread; rice is boiled with milk; cheese is eaten with macaroni,
and beans are baked with pork.

FIG. 45.

THE OBJECT OF DIGESTION.--If our food were cast directly into the blood, it could not be used.
For example, although the chemist can not see wherein the albumen of the egg differs from the
albumen of the blood, yet if it be injected into the veins it is unavailable for the purposes
required, and is thrown out again. In the course of digestion the food is modified in various
ways whereby it is fitted for the use of the body, into which it is finally incorporated. We
call this change of food into flesh assimilation, a name for a work done solely by the vital
organs, and so mysterious in its nature that the wisest physiologist gets only glimpses here
and there of its operations.

THE GENERAL PLAN OF DIGESTION.--Nature has provided for this purpose an entire laboratory,
furnished with a chemist's outfit of knives, mortars, baths, chemicals, filters, etc. The food
is (1) chewed, mixed with the saliva in the mouth, and swallowed; (2) it is acted upon by the
gastric juice in the stomach; (3) it is passed into the intestines, where it receives the bile,
pancreatic juice, and other liquids which completely dissolve it; [Footnote: Digestion, says
Berzelius, is a process of rinsing. The digestive apparatus secretes, and again absorbs with
the food which it has dissolved, not less than three gallons of liquid per day.-- BARNARD,
BIDDER, SCHMIDT, and others.] (4) the nourishing part is absorbed in the stomach and intestines,
and thence thrown into the blood vessels, whence it is whirled through the body by the torrent
of the circulation. These processes take place within the alimentary canal, a narrow tortuous
tube which commences at the mouth, and is about thirty feet long. [Footnote: The digestive
apparatus is lined with mucous membrane that possesses functions similar to those of the outer
skin. It absorbs certain substances and rejects waste matter. On account of this close connection
between the inner and the outer skin, it is not surprising to find that in the lowest animals
digestion is performed by means of the external skin. The amoeba, which is merely a gelatinous
mass, when it takes its food, extemporizes a stomach for the occasion. It simply wraps itself
around the morsel, and, like an animated apple dumpling with the apple for food and the crust
for animal, goes on with the process until the operation is completed, when it unrolls itself
again and lets the indigestible residue escape. The common hydra of our brooks can live when
turned inside out, like a glove; either side serving for skin or stomach, as necessity requires.]

FIG. 46.

I. MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION.--l. The Saliva.--The food while being cut and ground by the
teeth is mixed with the saliva. This is a thin, colorless, frothy, slightly alkaline liquid,
secreted [Footnote: By secretion is meant merely a separation or picking out from the blood.]
by the mucous membrane lining the mouth, and by three pairs of salivary glands (parotid, submaxillary,
and sublingual) opening into the mouth through ducts, or tubes. The amount varies, but on the
average is about three pounds per day, and in health is always sufficient to keep the mouth
moist. [Footnote: The presence and often the thought of food will "make one's mouth water."
Fear checks the flow of saliva, and hence the East Indians sometimes attempt to detect theft
by making those who are suspected chew rice. The person from whom it comes out driest is adjudged
the thief.] It softens and dissolves the food, and thus enables us to get the flavor or taste
of what we eat. It contains a peculiar organic principle called ptyalin, [Footnote: One part
of ptyalin will convert eight thousand parts of starch into sugar.--MIALEE.

The saliva has no chemical action on the fats or the albuminous bodies. Its frothiness enables
it to carry oxygen into the stomach, and this is thought to be of service. The action of the
ptyalin commences with great promptness, and sugar has been detected, it is said, within half
a minute after the starch was placed in the mouth. The process, however, is not finished there,
but continues after reaching the stomach.--VALENTIN. The saliva thus prepares a small portion
of food for absorption at once, and so insures at the very beginning of the operation of digestion
a supply of force-producing material for the immediate use of the system.] which, acting upon
the starch of the food, changes it into glucose or grape sugar.

2. The Process of Swallowing.--The food thus finely pulverized, softened, and so lubricated
by the viscid saliva as to prevent friction as it passes over the delicate membranes, is conveyed
by the tongue and cheek to the back of the mouth. The soft palate lifts to close the nasal
opening; the epiglottis shuts down, and along this bridge the food is borne, without danger
of falling into the windpipe or escaping into the nose. The muscular bands of the throat now
seize it and take it beyond our control. The fibers of the oesophagus contract above, while
they are lax below, and convey the food by a worm-like motion into the stomach. [Footnote:
We can observe the peculiar motion of the oesophagus by watching a horse's neck when he is
drinking.]

II. GASTRIC DIGESTION.--1. The Stomach is an irregular expansion of the digestive tube. Its
shape has been compared to that of a bagpipe. It holds about three pints, though it is susceptible
of some distension. It is composed of an inner, mucous membrane, which secretes the digestive
fluids; an outer, smooth, well-lubricated serous one, which prevents friction, and between
them a stout, muscular coat. The last consists of two principal layers of longitudinal and
circular fibers. When these contract, they produce a peculiar churning motion, called the peristaltic
(peri, round; stallein, to arrange) movement, which thoroughly mixes the contents of the stomach.
At the farther end, the muscular fibers contract and form a gateway, the pylorus (a gate),
as it is called, which carefully guards the exit, and allows no food to pass from the stomach
until properly prepared. [Footnote: With a wise discretion, however, it opens for buttons,
coins, etc., swallowed by accident; and when we overload the stomach, it seems to become weary
of constantly denying egress, and, finally, giving up in despair, lets everything through.]

FIG. 47.

2. The Gastric Juice.--The lining of the stomach is soft, velvety, and of a pinkish hue; but,
as soon as food is admitted, the blood vessels fill, the surface becomes of a bright red, and
soon there exudes from the gastric glands a thin, colorless fluid--the gastric juice. (See
p. 319.) This is secreted to the amount of twelve pounds per day. [Footnote: The amount secreted
by a healthy adult is variously estimated from five to thirty-seven pounds. As it is reabsorbed
by the blood, there is no loss.] Its acidity is probably due to muriatic or lactic acid--the
acid of sour milk. It contains a peculiar organic principle called pepsin [Footnote: Pepsin
is prepared and sold as an article of commerce. The best is said to be made from the stomachs
of young, healthy pigs, which, just before being killed, are excited with savory food that
they are not allowed to eat. One grain is sufficient to dissolve eight hundred grains of coagulated
white of egg. A temperature of 130 degrees renders pepsin inert.] (peptein, to digest), which
acts as a ferment to produce changes in the food, without being itself modified.

The flow of gastric juice is influenced by various circumstances. Cold water checks it for
a time, and ice for a longer period. Anger, fatigue, and anxiety delay and even suspend the
secretion. The gastric juice has no effect on the fats or the sugars of the food; its influence
being mainly confined to the albuminous bodies, which it so changes that they become soluble
in water. [Footnote: The question is often asked why the stomach itself is not digested by
the gastric juice, since it belongs to the albuminous substances. Some have assigned as the
probable reason that life protects that organ, and assert that living tissues can not be digested;
but the fallacy of this has been clearly shown by experiments that have been made with living
tissues in the course of scientific research. The latest opinion is that the blood which circulates
so freely through the vessels of the lining of the stomach, being alkaline, protects the tissue
against the acidity of the gastric juice.]

The food, reduced by the action of the gastric juice to a grayish, soupy mass, called chyme
(kime), escapes through that jealously guarded door, the pylorus.

Fig. 48.

III. INTESTINAL DIGESTION--The structure of the intestines is like that of the stomach. There
is the same outer, smooth, serous membrane (peritoneum) to prevent friction, the lining of
mucous membrane to secrete the digestive fluids, and the muscular coating to push the food
forward. The intestines are divided into the small and the large. The first part of the former
opens out of the stomach, and is called the du-o-de'-num, as its length is equal to the breadth
of twelve fingers. Here the chyme is acted upon by the bile, and the pancreatic juice.

FIG. 49.

1. The Bile is secreted by the liver. This gland weighs about four pounds, and is the largest
in the body. It is located on the right side, below the diaphragm. The bile is of a dark, golden
color, and bitter taste. About three pounds are secreted per day. When not needed for digestion,
it is stored in the gall cyst. [Footnote: A gall bladder can be obtained from a butcher, and
the contents kept in a bottle for examination.] Its action on the food, though not fully understood,
is necessary to life. [Footnote: The bile is produced, unlike all the other animal secretions,
from venous blood; that is, the already contaminated blood of the portal vein. Its complete
suppression produces symptoms of poisoning analogous to those which follow the stoppage of
respiration, and the patient dies, usually in a comatose condition, at the end of ten or twelve
days.--DALTON. The alkaline bile neutralizes the acid contents of the stomach as they flow
into the duodenum, and thus prepares the way for the pancreatic juice. It has also a slight
emulsifying power (note, p. 167).]

2. The Pancreatic Juice is a secretion of the pancreas, or "sweetbread"--a gland nearly as
large as the hand, lying behind the stomach. It is alkaline, and contains a ferment called
trypsin. This juice has the power of changing starch to sugar. Its main work, however, is in
breaking up the globules of fat into myriads of minute particles, that mix freely with water,
and remain suspended in it like butter in new milk. The whole mass now assumes a milky look,
whence it is termed chyle (kile) and passes on to the small intestine. [Footnote: It is curious
to observe that while the gastric juice is decidedly acid, the fluids with which the food next
comes into contact are alkaline. It is thus submitted to the operation alternately of alkaline,
acid, and again of alkaline secretions. In the herbivora there is also a second acid juice.
The reason of these alternations is not known, but it can hardly be doubted that they serve
to make the digestion of the food more perfect. And although the solvent power of the gastric
juice is placed in abeyance when its acidity is neutralized by the alkaline fluids, yet it
appears to be the case here, as in respect to the saliva, that effects are produced by the
mixture of the various secretions which are poured together into the digestive tube, that would
not result from either alone.--HINTON.]

3. The Small Intestine is an intricately folded tube, about twenty feet long, and from an inch
to an inch and one half in diameter. As the chyle passes through this tortuous channel, it
receives along the entire route secretions which seem to combine the action of all the previous
ones--starch, fat, and albumen being equally affected.

IV. ABSORPTION is performed in two ways, by the veins, and the lacteals. (1.) The veins in
the stomach [Footnote: The veins and the lacteals are separated from the food by a thin, moist
membrane, through the pores of which the fluid food rapidly passes, in accordance with a beautiful
law ("Popular Physics," p. 53) called the Osmose of liquids. If two liquids of different densities
are separated by an animal membrane, they will mix with considerable force. There is a similar
law regulating the interchange of gases through a porous partition, in obedience to which the
carbonic acid of the blood, and the oxygen of the lungs, are exchanged through the thin membrane
of the air cells.] immediately begin to take up the water, salt, grape sugar, and other substances
that need no special preparation. The starch and the albuminous bodies are also absorbed as
they are properly digested, and this process continues along the whole length of the alimentary
canal. In the small intestine, there is a multitude of tiny projections (villi) from the folds
of the mucous membrane, more than seven thousand to the square inch, giving it a soft, velvety
look. These little rootlets, reaching out into the milky fluid, drink into their minute blood
vessels the nutritious part of every sort of food. (2.)The lacteals [Footnote: From lac, milk,
because of the milky look given to their contents by the chyle.] (p. 126), a set of vessels
starting in the villi side by side with the veins, absorb the principal part of the fat. They
convey the chyle through the lymphatics and the thoracic duct (Fig. 43) to the veins, and so
within the sweep of the circulation.

The Portal Vein [Footnote: So named because it enters the liver by a sort of gateway.] carries
to the liver the food absorbed by the veins of the stomach and the villi of the intestines.
On the way, it is greatly modified by the action of the blood itself. In the cells of the liver,
it undergoes as mysterious a process as that performed by the lymphatic glands, and is then
cast into the circulation. [Footnote: In these cells, the sugar is changed into a kind of starch
called glycogen. This is insoluble, and so is stored up in the liver, and even in the substance
of the muscles, until it is needed by the body, when it is once more converted into soluble
sugar and taken up by the circulation. The liver also changes the waste and surplus albuminous
matter into bile, and into urea and uric acid--the forms in which nitrogenized waste is excreted
by the kidneys.] The food, potent with force, is now buried in that river of life from which
the body springs momentarily afresh.

THE COMPLEXITY of the process of digestion, as compared with the simplicity of respiration
and circulation, is very marked. The mechanical operation of mastication; the lubrication of
the food by mucus; the provision for the security of the respiratory organs; the grasping by
the muscles of the throat; the churning movement of the stomach; the guardianship of the pylorus;
the timely introduction by safe and protected channels of the saliva, the gastric juice, the
bile, the pancreatic juice, and the intestinal fluids, each with its special adaptation; the
curious peristaltic motion of the intestines; the twofold absorption by the veins and the lacteals;
the final transformation in the lymphatics, the portal vein, and the liver,--all these present
a complexity of detail, the necessity of which can be explained only when we reflect upon the
variety of the substances we use for food, and the importance of its thorough preparation before
it is allowed to enter the blood.

THE LENGTH OF TIME REQUIRED for digesting a full meal is from two to four hours. It varies
with the kind of food, state of the system, perfection of mastication, etc. In the celebrated
observations made upon Alexis St. Martin [Footnote: In 1822, Alexis St. Martin, a Canadian
in the employ of the American Fur Company, was accidentally shot in the left side. Two years
after, the wound was entirely healed, leaving, however, an opening about two and a half inches
in circumference into the stomach. Through this the mucous membrane protruded, forming a kind
of valve which prevented the discharge of food, but could be readily depressed by the finger,
thus exposing the interior. For several years he was under the care of Dr. Beaumont, a skillful
physician, who experimented upon him by giving various kinds of food, and watching their digestion
through this opening. By means of these observations, and others performed on Katherine Kutt,
a woman who had a similar aperture in the stomach, we have very important information as to
the digestibility of different kinds of food.] by Dr. Beaumont, his stomach was found empty
in two and a half hours after a meal of roast turkey, potatoes, and bread. Pigs' feet and boiled
rice were disposed of in an hour. Fresh, sweet apples took one and a half hours; boiled milk,
two hours; and unboiled, a quarter of an hour longer. In eggs, which occupied the same time,
the case was reversed,--raw ones being digested sooner than cooked. Roast beef and mutton required
three and three and a quarter hours respectively; veal, salt beef, and broiled chicken remained
for four hours; and roast pork enjoyed the bad preeminence of needing five and a quarter hours.

VALUE OF THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF FOOD.--Beef and Mutton possess the greatest nutritive value
of any of the meats. Lamb is less strengthening, but more delicate. Like the young of all animals,
it should be thoroughly cooked, and at a high temperature, properly to develop its delicious
flavor. Pork has much carbon. It sometimes contains a parasite called trichina, which may be
transferred to the human system, producing disease and often death. The only preventive is
thorough cooking. Fish is more watery than flesh, and many find it difficult of digestion.
Like meat, it loses its mineral constituents and natural juices when salted, and is much less
nourishing. Oysters are highly nutritious, but are more easily assimilated when raw than when
cooked. Milk is a model food, as it contains albumen, starch, fat, and mineral matter. No other
single substance can sustain life for so long a time. Cheese is very nourishing--one pound
being equal in value to two of meat, but it is not adapted to a weak stomach. (See p. 322.)
Eggs are most easily digested when the white is barely coagulated and the yolk is unchanged.
Bread [Footnote: Very fresh bread, warm biscuit, etc., are condensed by mastication into a
pasty mass that is not easily penetrated by the gastric juice, and hence they are not healthful.
In Germany bread is not allowed to be sold at the baker's till it is twenty-four hours old--a
wise provision for those who have not strength to resist temptation. This rule of eating may
well be adopted by every one who cares more for his health than for a gratification of his
appetite.] should be made of unbolted flour. The bran of wheat furnishes the mineral matter
we need in our bones and teeth, gives the bulk so essential to the proper distension of the
organs, and by its roughness gently stimulates them to action. Corn is rich in fat. It contains,
however, more indigestible matter than any other grain, except oats, and is less nutritious
than wheat. [Footnote: Persons unaccustomed to the use of corn find it liable to produce derangement
of the digestive organs. This was made fearfully apparent in the prisons of Andersonville during
the late civil war. The vegetable food of the Federal prisoners had hitherto been chiefly wheat
bread and potatoes--the corn bread so extensively used at the South being quite new to most
of them as a constant article of diet. It soon became not only loathsome, but productive of
serious diseases. On the other hand, it was the principal article in the rations of the Confederate
soldiers, to whom habit made it a nutritious and wholesome form of food, as was shown by their
endurance.--FLINT, Physiology of Man, Vol. II, page 41.] The Potato is two thirds water,--the
rest being mainly starch. Ripe Fruits, and those vegetables usually eaten raw, dilute the more
concentrated food, and also supply the blood with acids, which are cooling in summer, and useful,
perhaps, in assimilation.

THE STIMULANTS.--Coffee is about half nitrogen, and the rest fatty, saccharine, and mineral
substances. It is, therefore, of much nutritive value, especially when taken with milk and
sugar. Its peculiar stimulating property is due to a principle called caffeine. Its aroma is
developed by browning, but destroyed by burning. No other substance so soon relieves the sense
of fatigue. [Footnote: In the late civil war, the first desire of the soldiers upon halting
after a wearisome march, was to make a cup of coffee. This was taken without milk, and often
without sugar, yet was always welcome.] Taken in moderation, it clears the intellect, tranquilizes
the nerves, and usually leaves no unpleasant reaction. It serves also as a kind of negative
food, since it retards the process of waste.

In some cases, however, it produces a rush of blood to the head, and should be at once discarded.
At the close of a full meal it hinders digestion, and at night produces wakefulness. In youth,
when the vital powers are strong, and the functions of nature prompt in rallying from fatigue,
it is not needed, and may be injurious in stimulating a sensitive organization.

Tea possesses an active principle called theine. When used moderately, its effects are similar
to those of coffee, except that it exerts an astringent action. It contains tannin, which,
if the tea is strong, coagulates the albumen of the food--tans it--and thus delays digestion.
In excess, tea causes nervous tremor, disturbed sleep, palpitation of the heart, and indigestion.
[Footnote: Tea and coffee should be made with, boiling water, but should not be boiled afterward.
During the "steeping" process, so customary in this country, the volatile aroma is lost and
a bitter principle extracted. In both England and China it is usual to infuse tea directly
in the urn from which it is to be drawn. The tannin in tea is shown when a drop falls on a
knife blade. The black spot is a tannate of iron--a compound of the acid in the tea and the
metal.] (See p. 322.)

Chocolate contains much fat, and also nitrogenous matter resembling albumen. Its active principle,
theobromine, [Footnote: It is said that Linneus, the great botanist, was so fond of chocolate
that he named the cocoa tree "Theobroma," the food of the gods.] has some of the properties
of caffeine and theine.

THE COOKING OF FOOD breaks the little cells, and softens the fibers of which it is composed.
In broiling or roasting meat, it should be exposed to a strong heat at once, in order to coagulate
the albumen upon the outside, and thus prevent the escape of the nutritious juices. The cooking
may then be finished at a lower temperature. The same principle applies to boiling meat. In
making soups, on the contrary, the heat should be applied slowly, and should reach the boiling
point for only a few moments at the close. This prevents the coagulation of the albumen. Frying
is an unhealthful mode of cooking food, as thereby the fat becomes partially disorganized.

RAPID EATING produces many evil results. 1. There is not enough saliva mixed with the food;
2. The coarse pieces resist the action of the digestive fluids; 3. The food is washed down
with drinks that dilute the gastric juice, and hinder its work; 4. We do not appreciate the
quantity we eat until the stomach is overloaded; 5. Failing to get the taste of our food, we
think it insipid, and hence use condiments that overstimulate the digestive organs. In these
various ways the appetite becomes depraved, the stomach vexed, the system overworked, and the
foundation of dyspepsia is laid. [Footnote: When one is compelled to eat in a hurry, as at
a railway station, he would do well to confine himself principally to meat; and to dilute this
concentrated food with fruit, crackers, etc., taken afterward more leisurely.] (See p. 324.)

THE QUANTITY AND QUALITY OF FOOD required vary with the age and habits of each individual.
The diet of a child [Footnote: In youth, repair exceeds waste; hence the body grows rapidly,
and the form is plump. In middle life, repair and waste equal each other, and growth ceases.
In old age, waste exceeds repair; hence the powers are enfeebled and the skin lies in wrinkles
on the shrunken form.] should be largely vegetable, and more abundant than that of an aged
person. A sedentary occupation necessitates less food than an outdoor life. One accustomed
to manual labor, on entering school, should practice self-denial until his system becomes fitted
to the new order of things. He should not, however, fall into the opposite error. We read of
great men who have lived on bread and water, and the conscientious student sometimes thinks
that, to be great, he, too, must starve himself. [Footnote: As Dr. Holland well remarks, the
dispensation of sawdust has passed away. If we desire a horse to win the race, we must give
him plenty of oats.] On the contrary, many of the greatest workers are the greatest eaters.
A powerful engine needs a corresponding furnace. Only, we should be careful not to use more
fuel than is needed to run the machine. (See p. 325.)

The season should modify our diet. In winter, we need highly carbonaceous food, plenty of meat,
fat, etc.; but in summer we should temper the heat in our corporeal stoves with fruits and
vegetables.

The climate also has its necessities. The inhabitants of the frigid north have an almost insatiable
longing for fat. The low temperature had a remarkable effect on the members of his own party,
and some of them were in the habit of drinking the contents of the oil kettle with evident
relish. Other travelers narrate the most incredible stories of the voracity of the inhabitants
of arctic regions. Saritcheff, a Russian admiral, tells of a man who in his presence ate, at
a meal, a mess of twenty-eight pounds of boiled rice and butter, although he had already partaken
of his breakfast. Captain Cochrane further adds, in narrating this statement, that he has himself
seen three of the savages consume a reindeer at a sitting.] Thus, in 1812, when the Allies
entered Paris, the Cossacks drank all the oil from the lamps, and left the streets in darkness.
In tropical regions, a low, unstimulating diet of fruits forms the chief dependence. [Footnote:
A natural appetite for a particular kind of food is an expression not only of desire, but of
fitness. Thus the craving of childhood for sugar indicates a need of the system. It is questionable
how far it is proper to force or persuade one to eat that which he disrelishes, or his stomach
loathes. Life within is linked with life without. Each organ requires its peculiar nutriment,
and there is often a peculiar influence demanded of which we can have no notice except by natural
instinct. Yet, as we are creatures of habit and impulse, we need common sense and good judgment
to correct the too often wayward promptings of an artificial craving.]

WHEN FOOD SHOULD BE TAKEN.--On taking food, the blood sets at once to the alimentary canal,
and the energies are fixed upon the proper performance of this work. We should not, therefore,
undertake hard study, labor, or exercise directly after a hearty meal. We should give the stomach
at least half an hour. He who toils with brain or muscle, and thus centers the blood in any
particular organ, before eating should allow time for the circulation to become equalized.
There should be an interval of four to five hours between our regular meals, and there should
be no lunching between times. With young children, where the vital processes are more rapid,
less time may intervene. As a general rule, nothing should be eaten within two or three hours
of retiring. (See p 336.)

HOW FOOD SHOULD BE TAKEN.--A good laugh is the best of sauces. The mealtime should be the happiest
hour of the day. Care and grief are the bitter foes of digestion. A cheerful face and a light
heart are friends to long life, and nowhere do they serve us better than at the table. God
designed that we should enjoy eating, and that, having stopped before satiety was reached,
we should have the satisfaction always attendant on a good work well done.

NEED OF VARIETY.--Careful investigations have shown that any one kind of food, however nutritious
in itself, fails after a time to preserve the highest working power of the body. Our appetite
palls when we confine our diet to a regular routine. Nature demands variety, and she has furnished
the means of gratifying it. [Footnote: She opens her hand, and pours forth to man the treasures
of every land and every sea, because she would give to him a wide and vigorous life, participant
of all variety. For him the cornfields wave their golden grain--wheat, rye, oats, maize, or
rice, each different, but alike sufficing. Freely for him the palm, the date, the banana, the
breadfruit tree, the pine, spread out a harvest on the air; and pleasant apple, plum, or peach
solicit his ready hand. Beneath his foot lie stored the starch of the potato, the gluten of
the turnip, the sugar of the beet; while all the intermediate space is rich with juicy herbs.

Nature bids him eat and be merry; adding to his feast the solid flesh of bird, and beast, and
fish, prepared as victims for the sacrifice: firm muscle to make strong the arm of toil, in
the industrious temperate zone; and massive ribs of fat to kindle inward fires for the sad
dwellers under arctic skies.--Health and its Conditions.--HINTON.]

THE WONDERS OF DIGESTION.--We can understand much of the process of digestion. We can look
into the stomach and trace its various steps. Indeed, the chemist can reproduce in his laboratory
many of the operations; "a step further," as Fontenelle has said, "and he would surprise nature
in the very act." Just here, when he seems so successful, he is compelled to pause. At the
threshold of life the wisest physiologist reverently admires, wonders, and worships.

How strange is this transformation of food to flesh! We make a meal of meat, vegetables, and
drink. Ground by the teeth, mixed by the stomach, dissolved by the digestive fluids, it is
swept through the body. Each organ, as it passes, snatches its particular food. Within the
cells of the tissues [Footnote: As the body is composed of individual organs, and each organ
of separate tissues, so each tissue is made up of minute cells. Each cell is a little world
by itself, too small to be seen by the naked eye, but open to the microscope. It has its own
form and constitution as much as a special organ in the body. It absorbs from the blood such
food as suits its purposes. Moreover, the number of cells in an organ is as constant as the
number of organs. As the organs expand with the growth of the body, so the cells of each tissue
enlarge, but shrink again with age and the decline of life. Life begins and ends in a cell.--See
Appletons' Cyclopedia, Art. "Absorption."] it is transformed into the soft, sensitive brain,
or the hard, callous bone; into briny tears, or bland saliva, or acrid perspiration; bile for
digestion, oil for the hair, nails for the fingers, and flesh for the cheek.

Within us is an Almighty Architect, who superintends a thousand builders, which make in a way
past all human comprehension, here a fiber of a muscle, there a filament of a nerve; here constructing
a bone, there uniting a tendon,--fashioning each with scrupulous care and unerring nicety.
[Footnote: See COOKE'S Religion and Chemistry, page 236.] So, without sound of builder or stroke
of hammer, goes up, day by day, the body--the glorious temple of the soul.

DISEASES ETC.--1. Dyspepsia, or indigestion of food, is generally caused by an overtaxing of
the digestive organs. Too much food is used, and the entire system is burdened by the excess.
Meals are taken at irregular hours, when the fluids are not ready. A hearty supper is eaten
when the body, wearied with the day's labor, demands rest. The appetite craves no food when
the digestion is enfeebled, but stimulants and condiments excite it, and the unwilling organs
are oppressed by that which they can not properly manage.

Strong tea, alcoholic drinks, and tobacco derange the alimentary function.

Too great variety of dishes, rich food, tempting flavors,--all lead to an overloading of the
stomach. This patient, long-suffering member at last wears out. Pain, discomfort, diseases
of the digestive organs, and insufficient nutrition are the penalties of violated laws. (See
p. 328.)

2. The Mumps are an inflammation of the parotid and submaxillary glands (see p. 159). The disease
is generally epidemic, and is believed to be contagious; the patient should therefore be carefully
secluded for the sake of others as well as himself. The swelling may be allowed to take its
course. Relief from pain is often experienced by applying flannels wrung out of hot water.
Great care should be used not to check the inflammation, and, on first going out after recovery,
not to take cold.

ALCOHOLIC DRINKS AND NARCOTICS.

1. ALCOHOL (Continued from p. 147).

RELATION OF ALCOHOL TO THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS.--Is Alcohol a Food? To answer this question, let
us make a comparison. If you receive into your stomach a piece of bread or beef, Nature welcomes
its presence. The juices of the system at once take hold of it, dissolve it, and transform
it for the uses of the body. A million tiny fingers (lacteals and veins) reach out to grasp
it, work it over, and carry it into the circulation. The blood bears it onward wherever it
is needed to mend or to build "The house you live in." Soon, it is no longer bread or beef;
it is flesh on your arm; its chemical energy is imparted to you, and it becomes your strength.

If, on the other hand, you take into your stomach a little alcohol, it receives no such welcome.
Nature treats it as a poison, and seeks to rid herself of the intruder as soon as possible.
[Footnote: Food is digested, alcohol is not. Food warms the blood, directly or indirectly;
alcohol lowers the temperature. Food nourishes the body, in the sense of assimilating itself
to the tissues; alcohol does not. Food makes blood; alcohol never does anything more innocent
than mixing with it. Food feeds the blood cells; alcohol destroys them. Food excites, in health,
to normal action only; alcohol tends to inflammation and disease. Food gives force to the body;
alcohol excites reaction and wastes force, in the first place, and in the second, as a true
narcotic, represses vital action and corresponding nutrition.--If alcohol does not act like
food, neither does it behave like water. Water is the subtle but innocent vehicle of circulation,
which dissolves the solid food, holds in play the chemical and vital reactions of the tissues,
conveys the nutritive solutions from cell to cell, from tube to tube, and carries off and expels
the effete matter. Water neither irritates tissue, wastes force, nor suppresses vital action:
whereas alcohol does all three. Alcohol hardens solid tissue, thickens the blood, narcotizes
the nerves, and in every conceivable direction antagonizes the operation and function of water--LEES.]
The juices of the system will flow from every pore to dilute and weaken it, and to prevent
its shriveling up the delicate membranes with which it comes in contact. The veins will take
it up and bear it rapidly through the system. Every organ of elimination, all the scavengers
of the body-- the lungs, the kidneys, the perspiration glands, at once set to work to throw
off the enemy. So surely is this the case, that the breath of a person who has drunk only a
single glass of the lightest beer will betray the fact.

The alcohol thus eliminated is entirely unchanged. Nature apparently makes no effort to appropriate
it. [Footnote: It was formerly a question considerably discussed, whether alcohol exists in
the brain, or in the fluid found in the ventricles, in intoxicated persons. This was settled
by Percy, who found alcohol in the brain and liver of dogs poisoned with alcohol, and of men
who had died after excessive drinking. In these experiments, the presence of alcohol was determined
by distillation, and the distilled substance burned with a blue flame, and dissolved camphor.--
FLINT'S Physiology of Man.] It courses everywhere through the circulation, and into the great
organs, with all its properties unmodified.

Alcohol, then, is not, like bread or beef, taken hold of, broken up by the mysterious process
of digestion, and used by the body. [Footnote: Because of the difficulties of such an experiment,
we have not yet been able to account satisfactorily by the excretions for all the alcohol taken
into the stomach. This remains as yet one of the unsolved problems of physiological chemistry.
To collect the whole of the insensible perspiration, for example, is well-nigh impossible.
It was supposed at one time that a part of the alcohol is oxidized--i. e., burned, in the system.
But such a process would impart heat, and it is now proved that alcohol cools, instead of warms,
the blood. Moreover, the closest analysis fails to detect in the circulation any trace of the
products of alcoholic combustion, such as aldehyde and acetic acid. "The fact," says Flint,
"that alcohol is always eliminated, even when drunk in minute quantity, and that its elimination
continues for a considerable time, gradually diminishing, renders it probable that all that
is taken into the body is removed."] "It can not therefore be regarded as an aliment," or food.--
FLINT. "Beer, wine, and spirits," says Liebig, "contain no element capable of entering into
the composition of the blood or the muscular fiber." [Footnote: The small amount of nutritive
substance, chiefly sugar derived from the grain or fruit used in the manufacture of beer or
wine, can not, of course, be compared with that contained in bread or beef at the same cost.
Liebig says, in his Letters on Chemistry, "We can prove, with mathematical certainty, that
as much flour as can lie on the point of a table knife is more nutritious than eight quarts
of the best Bavarian beer."] "That alcohol is incapable of forming any part of the body," remarks
Cameron, "is admitted by all physiologists. It can not be converted into brain, nerve, muscle,
or blood."

EFFECT UPON THE DIGESTION. [Footnote: The medical value of alcohol in its relations to digestion
is not discussed in this book. The experiments of Dr. Henry Munroe, of Hull, published in the
London Medical Journal, are here summarized as showing that the tendency to retard digestion
is common to all forms of alcoholic drinks.

Finely Minced        |               |               |                | Beef           |  
2d Hour    |    4th Hour   |    6th Hour    |

I.             |               |   Digesting   |                | Gastric Juice        |  
Beef      |      and      |   Beef much    | and water.    |    opaque.    |   separating.
|    loosened.   |

|               |   Slightly    |     Slight     | II.            | No alteration |  opaque,
but  |   coating on   | Gastric Juice        |  perceptible. |     beef      |      beef. 
| with alcohol. |               |   unchanged.  |                |

III.           |               |    Cloudy,    |      beef      | Gastric Juice        |  No
change.   |   with fur    |     partly     | and pale ale. |               |   on beef.   
|    loosened.   |

Finely Minced        |               |               | Beef           |   8th Hour    |   10th
Hour   |

I.             |               |               | Gastric Juice        |     Beef      |  Broken
up    | and water.    |    opaque.    | into shreds.  |

|               |   Solid on    | II.            |   No visible  |    cooling    | Gastric
Juice        |     change.   | Pepsin | with alcohol. |               | precipitated. |

III.           |               | No digestion  | Gastric Juice        |  No further   | Pepsin
| and pale ale. |    change.    | precipitated. | ]

--Experiments tend to prove that alcohol coagulates and precipitates the pepsin from the gastric
juice, and so puts a stop to its great work in the process of digestion.

The greed of alcohol for water causes it to imbibe moisture from the tissues and juices, and
to inflame the delicate mucous membrane. It shows the power of Nature to adapt herself to circumstances,
that the soft, velvety lining of the throat and stomach should come at length to endure the
presence of a fiery liquid which, undiluted, would soon shrivel and destroy it. In self-defense,
the juices pour in to weaken the alcohol, and it is soon hurried into the circulation. Before
this can be done, "it must absorb about three times its bulk of water"; hence, very strong
liquor may be retained in the stomach long enough to interfere seriously with the digestion,
and to injure the lining coat. Habitual use of alcohol permanently dilates the blood vessels;
thickens and hardens the membranes; in some cases, ulcerates the surface; and, finally, "so
weakens the assimilation that the proper supply of food can not be appropriated." --FLINT.
[Footnote: The case of St. Martin (p. 168) gave an excellent opportunity to watch the action
of alcohol upon the stomach. Dr. Beaumont summarized his experiments thus: "The free, ordinary
use of any intoxicating liquor, when continued for some days, invariably produced inflammation,
ulcerous patches, and, finally, a discharge of morbid matter tinged with blood." Yet St. Martin
never complained of pain in his stomach, the narcotic influence of the alcohol preventing the
signal of danger that Nature ordinarily gives.]

EFFECT UPON THE LIVER.--Alcohol is carried by the portal vein directly to the liver. This organ,
after the brain, holds the largest share. The influence of the poison is here easily traced.
"The color of the bile is soon changed from yellow to green, and even to black;" the connective
tissue between the lobules becomes inflamed; and, in the case of a confirmed drunkard, hardened
and shrunk, the surface often assuming a nodulated appearance known as the "hobnailed liver."
Morbid matter is sometimes deposited, causing what is called "Fatty degeneration," so that
the liver is increased to twice or thrice its natural size.

EFFECT UPON THE KIDNEYS.--The kidneys, like the liver, are liable in time to undergo, through
the influence of alcohol, a "Fatty degeneration," in which the cells become filled with particles
of fat; [Footnote: Disabled by the fatty deposits, the kidneys are unable to separate the waste
matter coming to them for elimination from the system. The poisonous material is poured back
into the circulation, and often delirium ensues.--HUBBARD. Richardson states that his experience
"is to the effect that seven out of every eight instances of kidney disease are attributable
to alcohol."] the vessels lose their contractility; and, worst of all, the membranes may be
so modified as to allow the albuminous part of the blood to filter through them, and so to
rob the body of one of its most valuable constituents. [Footnote: This deterioration of structure
frequently gives rise to what is known as "Bright's Disease."--RICHARDSON.]

DOES ALCOHOL IMPART HEAT?--During the first flush after drinking wine, for example, a sense
of warmth is felt. This is due to the tides of warm blood that are being sent to the surface
of the body, owing to the vascular enlargement and to the rapid pumping of the heart. There
is, however, no fresh heat developed. On the contrary, the bringing the blood to the surface
causes it to cool faster, reaction sets in, a chilliness is experienced as one becomes sober,
and a delicate thermometer placed under the tongue of the inebriate may show a fall of even
two degrees below the standard temperature of the body. Several hours are required to restore
the usual heat.

As early as 1850, Dr. N. S. Davis, of Chicago, ex-President of the American Medical Association,
instituted an extensive series of experiments to determine the effect of the different articles
of food and drinks on the temperature of the system. He conclusively proved that, during the
digestion of all kinds of food, the temperature of the body is increased, but when alcohol
is taken, either in the form of fermented or distilled beverages, the temperature begins to
fall within a half hour, and continues to decrease for two or three hours, and that the reduction
of temperature, in extent as well as in duration, is in exact proportion to the amount of alcohol
taken.

It naturally follows that, contrary to the accepted opinion, liquor does not fortify against
cold. The experience of travelers at the North coincides with that of Dr. Hayes, the Arctic
explorer, who says: "While fat is absolutely essential to the inhabitants and travelers in
arctic countries, alcohol is, in almost any shape, not only completely useless, but positively
injurious. I have known strong, able-bodied men to become utterly incapable of resisting cold
in consequence of the long-continued use of alcoholic drink."

DOES ALCOHOL IMPART STRENGTH?--Experience shows that alcohol weakens the power of undergoing
severe bodily exertion. [Footnote: Dr. McRae, in speaking of Arctic exploration, at the meeting
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, held at Montreal in 1856, said:
"The moment that a man had swallowed a drink of spirits, it was certain that his day's work
was nearly at an end. It was absolutely necessary that the rule of total abstinence be rigidly
enforced, if we would accomplish our day's task. The use of liquor as a beverage when we had
work on hand, in that terrific cold, was out of the question."] Men who are in training for
running, rowing, and other contests where great strength is required, deny themselves all liquors,
even when they are ordinarily accustomed to their use.

Dr. Richardson made some interesting experiments to show the influence of alcohol upon muscular
contraction. He carefully weighted the hind leg of a frog, and, by means of electricity, stimulating
the muscle to its utmost power of contraction, he found out how much the frog could lift. Then
administering alcohol, he discovered that the response of the muscle to the electrical current
became feebler and feebler, as the narcotic began to take effect, until, at last, the animal
could raise less than half the amount it lifted by the natural contraction when uninfluenced
by alcohol.

EFFECT UPON THE WASTE OF THE BODY.--The tendency of alcohol is to cause a formation of an unstable
substance resembling fat, [Footnote: The molecular deposits equalizing the waste of the system
do not go on regularly under the influence of alcohol; the tissues are not kept up to their
standard; and, in time, their composition is changed by a deposit of an amorphous matter resembling
fat. This is an unstable substance, and the functions of animal life all retrograde.--HUBBARD,
The Opium Habit and Alcoholism.] and so the use of liquor for even a short time will increase
the weight. But a more marked influence is to check the ordinary waste of the system, so that
"the amount of carbonic acid exhaled from the lungs may be reduced as much as thirty to fifty
per cent."--HINTON. The life process is one of incessant change. Its rapidity is essential
to vigor and strength. When the functions are in full play, each organ is being constantly
torn down, and as constantly rebuilt with the materials furnished from our food. Anything that
checks this oxidation of the tissues, or hinders the deposition of new matter, disturbs the
vital functions. Both these results are the inevitable effects of alcohol; for, since the blood
contains less oxygen and more carbonic acid, and the power of assimilating the food is decreased,
it follows that every process of waste and repair must be correspondingly weakened. The person
using liquor consequently needs less bread and beef, and so alcohol seems to him a food--a
radical error, as we have shown.

ALCOHOL CREATES A PROGRESSIVE APPETITE FOR ITSELF.--When liquor is taken, even in the most
moderate quantity, it soon becomes necessary, and then arises a craving demand for an increased
amount to produce the original effect. No food creates this constantly augmenting want. A cup
of milk drank at dinner does not lead one to go on, day by day, drinking more and more milk,
until to get milk becomes the one great longing of the whole being. Yet this is the almost
universal effect of alcohol. Hunger is satisfied by any nutritious food: the dram-drinker's
thirst demands alcohol. The common experience of mankind teaches us the imminent peril that
attends the formation of this progressive poison habit. A single glass taken as a tonic may
lead to the drunkard's grave.

Worse than this, the alcoholic craving may be transmitted from father to son, and young persons
often find themselves cursed with a terrible disease known as alcoholism--a keen, morbid appetite
for liquor that demands gratification at any cost--stamped upon their very being through the
reckless indulgence of this habit on the part of some one of their ancestors. [Footnote: The
American Medical Association, at their meeting in St. Paul, Minnesota (1883), restated in a
series of resolutions their conviction, that "alcohol should be classed with other powerful
drugs; that when prescribed medically, it should be done with conscientious caution and a sense
of great responsibility; that used as a beverage it is productive of a large amount of physical
and mental disease; that it entails diseased and enfeebled constitutions upon offspring, and
that it is the cause of a large percentage of the crime and pauperism of our large cities and
country."]

THE LAW OF HEREDITY is, in this connection, well worth consideration. "The world is beginning
to perceive," says Francis Galton, "that the life of each individual is, in some real sense,
a continuation of the lives of his ancestors." "Each of us is the footing up of a double column
of figures that goes back to the first pair." "We are omnibuses," remarks Holmes, "in which
all our ancestors ride." We inherit from our parents our features, our physical vigor, our
mental faculties, and even much of our moral character. Often, when one generation is skipped,
the qualities will reappear in the following one. The virtues, as well as the vices, of our
forefathers, have added to, or subtracted from, the strength of our brain and muscle. The evil
tendencies of our natures, which it is the struggle of our lives to resist, constitute a part
of our heirlooms from the past. Our descendants, in turn, will have reason to bless us only
if we hand down to them a pure healthy physical, mental, and moral being.

"There is a marked tendency in nature to transmit all diseased conditions. Thus, the children
of consumptive parents are apt to be consumptives. But of all agents, alcohol is the most potent
in establishing a heredity that exhibits itself in the destruction of mind and body. [Footnote:
Nearly all the diseases springing from indulgence in distilled and fermented liquors are liable
to become hereditary, and to descend to at least three or four generations, unless starved
out by uncompromising abstinence. But the distressing aspect of the heredity of alcohol is
the transmitted drink- crave. This is no dream of an enthusiast, but the result of a natural
law. Men and women upon whom this dread inheritance has been forced are everywhere around us,
bravely struggling to lead a sober life.--DR. NORMAN KERR.] Its malign influence was observed
by the ancients long before the production of whiskey or brandy, or other distilled liquors,
and when fermented liquors or wines only were known. Aristotle says, 'Drunken women have children
like unto themselves,' and Plutarch remarks, 'One drunkard is the father of another.' The drunkard
by inheritance is a more helpless slave than his progenitor, and his children are more helpless
still, unless on the mother's side there is an untainted blood. For there is not only a propensity
transmitted, but an actual disease of the nervous system."--DR. WILLARD PARKER. [Footnote:
The subject of alcohol is continued in the chapter on the Nervous System.]

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. How do clothing and shelter economize food?

2. Is it well to take a long walk before breakfast?

3. Why is warm food easier to digest than cold?

4. Why is salt beef less nutritious than fresh? [Footnote: The French Academicians found that
flesh soaked in water so as to deprive it of its mineral matter and juices, lost its nutritive
value, and that animals fed on it soon died. Indeed, for all purposes of nutrition, Liebig
said it was no better than stones, and the utmost torments of hunger were hardly sufficient
to induce them to continue the diet. There was plenty of nutritive food, but there was no medium
for its solution and absorption, and hence it was useless.] 5. What should be the food of a
man recovering from a fever?

6. Is a cup of black coffee a healthful close to a hearty dinner?

7. Should iced water be used at a meal?

8. Why is strong tea or coffee injurious?

9. Should food or drink be taken hot?

10. Are fruitcakes, rich pastry, and puddings wholesome?

11. Why are warm biscuit and bread hard of digestion?

12. Should any stimulants be used in youth?

13. Why should bread be made spongy?

14. Which should remain longer in the mouth, bread or meat?

15. Why should cold water be used in making soup, and hot water in boiling meat?

16. Name the injurious effects of overeating.

17. Why do not buckwheat cakes, with syrup and butter, taste as well in July as in January?

18. Why is a late supper injurious?

19. What makes a man "bilious"?

20. What is the best remedy? Ans. Diet to give the organs rest, and active exercise to arouse
the secretions and the circulation.

21. What is the practical use of hunger?

22. How can jugglers drink when standing on their heads?

23. Why do we relish butter on bread?

24. What would you do if you had taken arsenic by mistake? (See Appendix.)

25. Why should ham and sausage be thoroughly cooked?

26. Why do we wish butter on fish, eggs with tapioca, oil on salad, and milk with rice?

27. Explain the relation of food to exercise.

28. How do you explain the difference in the manner of eating between carnivorous and herbivorous
animals?

29. Why is a child's face plump and an old man's wrinkled?

30. Show how life depends on repair and waste.

31. What is the difference between the decay of the teeth and the constant decay of the body?

32. Should biscuit and cake containing yellow spots of soda be eaten?

33. Tell how the body is composed of organs, how organs are made up of tissues, and how tissues
consist of cells.

34. Why do we not need to drink three pints of water per day?

35. Why, during a pestilence, are those who use liquors as a beverage the first, and often
the only victims?

36. What two secretions seem to have the same general use?

37. How may the digestive organs be strengthened?

38. Is the old rule, "after dinner sit awhile," a good one?

39. What would you do if you had taken laudanum by mistake? Paris Green? Sugar of lead? Oxalic
acid? Phosphorus from matches? Ammonia? Corrosive sublimate? (See p. 265.)

40. What is the simplest way to produce vomiting, so essential in case of accidental poisoning?

41. In what way does alcohol interfere with the digestion?

42. Is alcohol assimilated?

43. What is the effect of alcohol on the albuminous substances?

44. Is there any nourishment in beer?

45. Show how the excessive use of alcohol may first increase, and, afterward, decrease, the
size of the liver.

46. Will liquor help one to endure cold and exposure?

47. What is a fatty degeneration of the kidneys?

48. Contrast the action of alcohol and water in the body.

49. Is alcohol, in any proper sense of the term, a food?

50. Does liquor strengthen the muscles of a working man?

51. Is liquor a wholesome "tonic"?

52. Is it a good plan to take a glass of liquor before dinner?

VII.

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

"As a king sits high above his subjects upon his throne, and from it speaks behests that all
obey, so from the throne of the brain cells is all the kingdom of a man directed, controlled,
and influenced. For this occupant, the eyes watch, the ears hear, the tongue tastes, the nostrils
smell, the skin feels. For it, language is exhausted of its treasures, and life of its experience;
locomotion is accomplished, and quiet insured. When it wills, body and spirit are goaded like
overdriven horses. When it allows, rest and sleep may come for recuperation. In short, the
slightest penetration may not fail to perceive that all other parts obey this part, and are
but ministers to its necessities."--Odd Hours of a Physician. ANALYSIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

| 1. THE STRUCTURE |                                        |                             
| 1. Description. |                | 1. The Brain........| 2. The Cerebrum. |             
|                     |3. The Cerebellum. |                |                       |      
| 2. The Spinal Cord..| 1. Its Composition. |                |                     |2. Medulla
Oblongata. |                |                       | 2. ORGANS OF   |                    
| 1. Description. |    THE NERV-   |                     | 2. Motory and Sensory. |    OUS
SYSTEM..|                     | 3. Transfer of Pain. |                |                   
| 4. The Spinal Nerves-- |                |                     |        31 Pairs. |      
|3. The Nerves.......| 5. The Cranial Nerves-- |                                      |   
12 Pairs. |                                      | 6. Sympathetic System. |               
| 7. Crossing of Cords. |                                      | 8. Reflex Action. |      
| 9. Uses of Reflex |                                      |       Action |               
|                | 1. Brain Exercise. |                | 2. Connection between Brain Growth
and Body Growth. | 3. HYGIENE.....| 3. Sleep. |                | 4. Effect of Sleeping Draughts.
|                |5. Sunlight. | | 4. WONDERS OF THE BRAIN. |                 |           
| 1. Alcohol (Con'd.) |               |                    | 1. Stage of Excitement. |    
||                    | 2. Stage of Muscular |               ||                    |      
Weakness. |               || 1. Effect of Alco- | 3. Stage of Mental |               ||   
hol upon the   |        Weakness. |               ||     Nervous System | 4. Stage of Unconscious-
|               ||                    |       ness. |               || |               || 2.
Effect upon the Brain |               ||3. Effect upon the Mental and Moral Powers. |     
| |               | 2. Tobacco. |               |  |               || 1. Constituents of Tobacco.
| 5. ALCOHOLIC  || 2. Physiological Effects. |     DRINKS AND|| 3. Possible Disturbances produced
by Smoking. |    NARCOTICS.|| 4. Influence upon the Nervous System. || 5. Is Tobacco a Food?
||6. Influence of Tobacco on Youth. |                       |                     | 1. Description.
| 3. Opium............| 2. Physiological |                     |       Effects. | 4. Chloral
Hydrate. | 5. Chloroform. |6. Cocaine.

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. [Footnote: The organs of circulation, respiration, and digestion, of which
we have already spoken, are often called the vegetative functions, because they belong also
to the vegetable kingdom. Plants have a circulation of sap through their cells corresponding
to that of the blood through the capillaries. They breathe the air through their leaves, which
act the part of lungs, and they take in food which they change into their own structure by
a process which answers to that of digestion. The plant, however, is a mere collection of parts
incapable of any combined action. On the other hand, the animal has a nervous system which
binds all the organs together.]

STRUCTURE.--The nervous system includes the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves. It is composed
of two kinds of matter-- the white, and the gray. The former consists of minute, milk-white,
glistening fibers, sometimes as small as 1/25000 of an inch in diameter; the latter is made
up of small, ashen-colored cells, forming a pulp-like substance of the consistency of blancmange.
[Footnote: In addition to the cells, the gray substance contains also nerve fibers continuous
with the white fibers, but generally much smaller. These form half the bulk of the gray substance
of the spinal cord, and a large part of the deeper layer of the gray matter in the brain.--LEIDY'S
Anatomy, p. 507.] This is often gathered in little masses, termed ganglions (ganglion, a knot),
because, when a nerve passes through a group of the cells, they give it the appearance of a
knot. The nerve fibers are conductors, while the gray cells are generators, of nervous force.
[Footnote: What this force is we do not know. In some respects it is like electricity, but,
in others, it differs materially. Its velocity is about thirty three meters per second.--Popular
Physics, p. 244, Note.] The ganglia, or nervous centers, answer to the stations along a telegraphic
line, where messages are received and transmitted, and the fibers correspond to the wires that
communicate between different parts.

FIG. 50.

The BRAIN is the seat of the mind. [Footnote: In proportion to the rest of the nervous matter
in the body, it is larger in man than in any of the lower animals. It is the function which
the brain performs that distinguishes man from all other animals, and it is by the action of
his brain that he becomes a conscious, intelligent, and responsible being. The brain is the
seat of that knowledge which we express when we say I. I know it, I feel it, I saw it, are
expressions of our individual consciousness, the seat of which is the brain. It is when the
brain is at rest in sleep that there is least consciousness. The brain may be put under the
influence of poisons, such as alcohol and chloroform, and then the body is without consciousness.
From these and other facts the brain is regarded as the seat of consciousness.--LANKESTER.]
Its average weight is about fifty ounces. [Footnote: Cuvier's brain weighed 64 1/2 ounces;
Webster's, 53 1/2 ounces; James Fisk's, 58 ounces; Ruloff's, 59 ounces; an idiot's, 19 ounces.
See Table in FLINT'S Nervous System.] It is egg-shaped, and, soft and yielding, fills closely
the cavity of the skull. It reposes securely on a water bed, being surrounded by a double membrane
(arachnoid), delicate as a spider's web, which forms a closed sac filled, like the spaces in
the brain itself, with a liquid resembling water. Within this, and closely investing the brain,
is a fine tissue (pia mater), with a mesh of blood vessels which dips down into the hollows,
and bathes them so copiously that it uses one fifth of the entire circulation of the body.
Around the whole is wrapped a tough membrane (dura mater), which lines the bony box of the
skull, and separates the various parts of the organ by strong partitions. The brain consists
of two parts--the cerebrum, and the cerebellum.

The CEREBRUM fills the front and upper part of the skull, and comprises about seven eighths
of the entire weight of the brain. As animals rise in the scale of life, this higher part makes
its appearance. It is a mass of white fibers, with cells of gray matter sprinkled on the outside,
or lodged here and there in ganglia. It is so curiously wrinkled and folded as strikingly to
resemble the meat of an English walnut. This structure gives a large surface for the gray matter,--sometimes
as much as six hundred and seventy square inches. The convolutions are not noticeable in an
infant, but increase with the growth of the mind, their depth and intricacy being characteristic
of high mental power.

FIG. 51.

The cerebrum is divided into two hemispheres, connected beneath by fibers of white matter.
Thus we have two brains, [Footnote: This doubleness has given rise to some curious speculations.
In the case of the hand, eye, etc, we know that the sensation is made more sure. Thus we can
see with one eye, but not so well as with both. It is perhaps the same with the brain. We may
sometimes carry on a train of thought, "build an air castle" with one half of our brain, while
the other half looks on and watches the operation; or, we may read and at the same time think
of something else. So in delirium, a patient often imagines himself two persons, thus showing
a want of harmony between the two halves.--DRAPER, Human Physiology, p. 320.] as well as two
hands and two eyes. This provides us with a surplus of brains, as it were, which can be drawn
upon in an emergency. A large part of one hemisphere has been destroyed without particularly
injuring the mental powers, [Footnote: A pointed iron bar, three and a half feet long and one
inch and a quarter in diameter, was driven by the premature blasting of a rock completely through
the side of the head of a man who was present. It entered below the temple, and made its exit
at the top of the forehead, just about the middle line. The man was at first stunned, and lay
in a delirious, semistupefied state for about three weeks. At the end of sixteen months, however,
he was in perfect health, with wounds healed and mental and bodily functions unimpaired, except
that sight was lost in the eye of the injured side.-- DALTON. It is noticeable, however, that
the man became changed in disposition, fickle, impatient of restraint, and profane, which he
was not before. He died epileptic, nearly thirteen years after the injury. The tamping iron
and the skull are preserved in the Warren Anatomical Museum, Boston.]--just as a person has
been blind in one eye for a long time without having discovered his loss. The cerebrum is the
center of intelligence and thought. [Footnote: In man, the cerebrum presents an immense preponderance
in weight over other portions of the brain; in some of the lower animals, the cerebrum is even
less in weight than the cerebellum. Another interesting point is the development of cerebral
convolutions in certain animals, by which the relative amount of gray matter is increased.
In fishes, reptiles, and birds, the surface of the hemispheres is smooth; but, in many mammalia,
especially in those remarkable for intelligence, the cerebrum presents a greater or less number
of convolutions, as it does in the human subject.--FLINT. The average weight of the human brain
in proportion to the entire body is about 1 to 36. The average of mammalia is 1 to 186; of
birds, 1 to 212; of reptiles, 1 to 1,321; and of fishes, 1 to 5,668. There are some animals
in which the weight of the brain bears a higher proportion to the body than it does in man;
thus in the blue-headed tit, the proportion is as 1 to 12; in the goldfinch, as 1 to 24; and
in the field mouse, as 1 to 31. "It does not hence follow, however, that the cerebrum is larger
in proportion; in fact, it is probably not nearly so large; for in birds and rodent animals
the sensory ganglia form a very considerable portion of the entire brain. M. Baillarger has
shown that the surface and the bulk of the cerebral hemispheres are so far from bearing any
constant proportion to each other in different animals that, notwithstanding the depth of the
convolutions in the human cerebrum, its bulk is two and a half times as great in proportion
to its surface as it is in the rabbit, the surface of whose cerebrum is smooth. The size of
the cerebrum, considered alone, is not, however, a fair test of its intellectual power. This
depends upon the quantity of vesicular matter which it contains, as evinced not only by superficial
area, but by the number and depth of the convolutions and by the thickness of the cortical
layer."--CARPENTER.] Persons in whom it is seriously injured or diseased often become unable
to converse intelligently, both from inability to remember words and from loss of power to
articulate them.

THE CEREBELLUM lies below the cerebrum, and in the back part of the head (Fig. 50). It is about
the size of a small fist. Its structure is similar to that of the brain proper, but instead
of convolutions it has parallel ridges, which, letting the gray matter down deeply into the
white matter within, give it a peculiar appearance, called the arbor vite, or tree of life
(Fig. 55). This part of the brain is the center for the control of the voluntary muscles, [Footnote:
The exact nature of the functions of the cerebellum is one of those problems concerning which
there is no unanimity of opinion amongst physiologists. It may be premised, however, that the
knowledge we at present possess does enable us to come to one very important conclusion with
respect to the functions of the cerebellum,--it enables us to say that this organ has no independent
function either in the province of mind or in the province of motility. And we may perhaps
safely affirm still further, that the cerebellum is much more intimately concerned with the
production of bodily movements than with the evolution of mental phenomena. The anatomical
distinctness of the cerebellum from the larger brain and other parts of the nervous system
is more apparent than real....That there is an habitual community of action between the cerebellum
and the spinal cord is, I believe, doubted by none, and the fact that an intimate functional
relationship exists between the cerebrum and the cerebellum is shown by the circumstance that
atrophy of one cerebral hemisphere entails a corresponding atrophy of the opposite half of
the cerebellum. The subordinate or supplementary nature of the cerebellar function, however,
in this latter relation seems equally well shown by the fact that atrophy of one side of the
cerebellum (when it occurs as the primary event) does not entail any appreciable wasting in
the opposite half of the cerebrum. What other conclusion can be drawn? If the cutting off of
certain cerebral stimuli leads to a wasting of the opposite half of the cerebellum, this would
seem to show that each half of the cerebellum is naturally called into activity in response
to, or conjointly with, the opposite cerebral hemisphere. Whilst conversely, if atrophy of
one half of the cerebellum does not entail a relative diminution in the opposite cerebral hemisphere,
this would go to show that the cerebral hemispheres do not act in response to cerebellar stimuli,
since their nutrition does not suffer when such stimuli are certainly absent. The action of
the cerebrum is therefore shown to be primary, whilst that of the cerebellum is secondary or
subordinate in the performance of those functions in which they are both concerned.--H. CHARLTON
BASTIAN, Paralysis from Brain Disease.] particularly those of locomotion. Persons in whom it
is injured or diseased walk with tottering and uncertain movements as if intoxicated, and can
not perform any orderly work.

THE SPINAL CORD occupies the cavity of the backbone. It is protected by the same membranes
as the brain, but, unlike it, the white matter is on the outside, and the gray matter is within.
Deep fissures separate it into halves (Fig. 50), which are, however, joined by a bridge of
the same substance. Just as it starts from the brain, there is an expansion called the medulla
oblongata (Fig. 55).

THE NERVES are glistening, silvery threads, composed, like the spinal cord, of white matter
without and gray within. They ramify to all parts of the body. Often they are very near each
other, yet are perfectly distinct, each conveying its own impression. [Footnote: Press two
fingers together, and, closing the eyes, let some one pass the point of a pin lightly from
one to the other; you will be able to tell which is touched, yet if the nerves came in contact
with each other anywhere in their long route to the brain, you could not thus distinguish.]
Those which carry the orders of the mind to the different organs are called the motory nerves;
while those which bring back impressions which they receive are styled sensory nerves. If the
sensory nerve leading to any part be cut, all sensation in that spot will be lost, while motion
will remain; if the motory nerve be cut, all motion will be destroyed, while sensation will
exist as before.

TRANSFER OF PAIN.--Strictly speaking, pain is not in any organ, but in the mind, since only
that can feel. When any nerve brings news to the brain of an injury, the mind refers the pain
to the end of the nerve. A familiar illustration is seen in the "funny bone" behind the elbow.
Here the nerve (ulnar) gives sensation to the third and fourth fingers, in which, if this bone
be struck, the pain will seem to be. Long after a limb has been amputated, pain will be felt
in it, as if it still formed a part of the body--any injury in the stump being referred to
the point to which the nerve formerly led. [Footnote: Only about five per cent. of those who
suffer amputation lose the feeling of the part taken away. There is something tragical, almost
ghastly, in the idea of a spirit limb haunting a man through his life, and betraying him in
unguarded moments into some effort, the failure of which suddenly reminds him of his loss.
A gallant fellow, who had left an arm at Shiloh, once, when riding, attempted to use his lost
hand to grasp the reins while with the other he struck his horse. A terrible fall was the result
of his mistake. When the current of a battery is applied to the nerves of an arm stump, the
irritation is carried to the brain, and referred to all the regions of the lost limb. On one
occasion a man's shoulder was thus electrized three inches above the point where the limb was
cut off. For two years he had ceased to be conscious of his limb. As the electric current passed
through, the man, who had been profoundly ignorant of its possible effects, started up, crying,
"Oh, the hand! the hand!" and tried to seize it with the living grasp of the sound fingers.
No resurrection of the dead could have been more startling.--DR. MITCHELL on "Phantom Limbs"
in Lippincott's Magazine.]

The nerves are divided into three general classes--the spinal, the cranial, and the sympathetic.

FIG. 54.

THE SPINAL NERVES, of which there are thirty-one pairs, issue from the spinal cord through
apertures provided for them in the backbone. Each nerve arises by two roots; the anterior is
the motory, and the posterior the sensory one. The posterior alone connects directly with the
gray matter of the cord, and has a small ganglion of gray matter of its own at a little distance
from its origin. These roots soon unite, i. e., are bound up in one sheath, though they preserve
their special functions. When the posterior root of a nerve is cut, the animal loses the power
of feeling, and when the anterior root is cut, that of motion.

THE CRANIAL NERVES, twelve pairs in number, spring from the lower part of the brain and the
medulla oblongata.

1. The olfactory, or first pair of nerves, ramify through the nostrils, and are the nerves
of smell.

2. The optic, or second pair of nerves, pass to the eyeballs, and are the nerves of vision.

3, 4, 6. The motores oculi (eye movers) are three pairs of nerves used to move the eyes.

5. The trifacial, or fifth pair of nerves, divide each into three branches--hence the name--the
first to the upper part of the face, eyes, and nose; the second to the upper jaw and teeth;
the third to the lower jaw and the mouth, where it forms the nerve of taste. These nerves are
implicated when we have the toothache or neuralgia.

7. The facial, or seventh pair of nerves, are distributed over the face, and give it expression.
[Footnote: If it is palsied, on one side there will be a blank, while the other side will laugh
or cry, and the whole face will look funny indeed. There were some cruel people in the middle
ages who used to cut the nerve and deform children's faces in this way, for the purpose of
making money of them at shows. When this nerve was wrongly supposed to be the seat of neuralgia,
or tic douloureux, it was often cut by surgeons. The patient suffered many dangers, and no
relief of pain was gained.--MAPOTHER.]

FIG. 55.

8. The auditory, or eighth pair of nerves, go to the ears, and are the nerves of hearing.

9. The glos-so-pha-ryn'-ge-al, or ninth pair of nerves, are distributed over the mucous membrane
of the pharynx, tonsils, etc.

10. The pneu-mo-gas'-tric, or tenth pair of nerves, preside over the larynx, lungs, liver,
stomach, and one branch extends to the heart. This is the only nerve which goes so far from
the head.

11. The accessory, or eleventh pair of nerves, rise from the spinal cord, run up to the medulla
oblongata, and thence leave the skull at the same opening with the ninth and tenth pairs. They
regulate the vocal movements of the larynx.

12. The hyp-o-glos'-sal, or twelfth pair of nerves, give motion to the tongue.

FIG. 56.

THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM contains the nerves of organic life. It consists of a double chain of
ganglia on either side of the backbone, extending into the chest and abdomen. From, these,
delicate nerves, generally soft and of a grayish color, run to the organs on which life depends--the
heart, lungs, stomach, etc.--to the blood vessels, and to the spinal and cranial nerves over
the body. Thus the entire system is bound together with cords of sympathy, so that, "if one
member suffers, all the members suffer with it."

Here lies the secret of the control exercised by the brain over all the vital operations. Every
organ responds to its changing moods, especially those of respiration, circulation, digestion,
and secretion,--processes intimately linked with this system, and controlled by it. (See p. 330.)

CROSSING OF CORDS.--Each half of the body is presided over, not by its own half of the brain,
but that of the opposite side. The motory nerves, as they descend from the brain, in the medulla
oblongata, cross each other to the opposite side of the spinal cord. So the motor nerves of
the right side of the body are connected with the left side of the brain, and vice versa. Thus
a derangement in one half of the brain may paralyze the opposite half of the body. The nerves
going to the face do not thus cross, and therefore the face may be motionless on one side,
and the limbs on the other. Each of the sensory fibers of the spinal nerves crosses over to
the opposite side of the spinal cord, and so ascends to the brain; an injury to the spinal
cord may, therefore, cause a loss of motion in one leg and of feeling in the other.

REFLEX ACTION.--Since the gray matter generates the nervous force, a ganglion is capable of
receiving an impression, and of sending back or reflecting it so as to excite the muscles to
action. This is done without the consciousness of the mind. [Footnote: Instances of an unconscious
working of the mind are abundant. An illustration, often quoted, is given, as follows, by Dr.
Abercrombie, in his Intellectual Powers:

"A lawyer had been excessively perplexed about a very complicated question. An opinion was
required from him, but the question was one of such difficulty that he felt very uncertain
how he should render it. The decision had to be given at a certain time, and he awoke in the
morning of that day with a feeling of great distress. He said to his wife, 'I had a dream,
and the whole thing was clearly arranged before my mind, and I would give anything to recover
the train of thought.' His wife said to him, 'Go and look on your table.' She had seen him
get up in the night and go to his table and sit down and write. He did so, and found there
the opinion which he had been most earnestly endeavoring to recover, lying in his own handwriting.
There was no doubt about it whatever."

In this case the action of the brain was clearly automatic, i. e., reflex. The lawyer had worried
his brain by his anxiety, and thus prevented his mind from doing its best. But it had received
an impulse in a certain direction, and when left to itself, worked out the result. (See Appendix
for other illustrations.)] Thus we wink involuntarily at a flash of light or a threatened blow.
[Footnote: A very eminent chemist a few years ago was making an experiment upon some extremely
explosive compound which he had discovered. He had a small quantity of this compound in a bottle,
and was holding it up to the light, looking at it intently; and whether it was a shake of the
bottle or the warmth of his hand, I do not know, but it exploded in his hand, and the bottle
was shivered into a million of minute fragments, which were driven in every direction. His
first impression was that they had penetrated his eyes, but to his intense relief he found
presently that they had only struck the outside of his eyelids. You may conceive how infinitesimally
short the interval was between the explosion of the bottle and the particles reaching his eyes;
and yet in that interval the impression had been made upon his sight, the mandate of the reflex
action, so to speak, had gone forth, the muscles of his eyelids had been called into action,
and he had closed his eyelids before the particles had reached them, and in this manner his
eyes were saved. You see what a wonderful proof this is of the way in which the automatic action
of our nervous apparatus enters into the sustenance of our lives, and the protection of our
most important organs from injury.-- DR. CARPENTER.] We start at a sudden sound. We jump back
from a precipice before the mind has time to reason upon the danger. The spinal cord conducts
certain impressions to the brain, but responds to others without troubling that organ. [Footnote:
There is a story told of a man, who, having injured his spinal cord, had lost feeling and motion
in his lower extremities. Dr. John Hunter experimented upon him. Tickling his feet, he asked
him if he felt it; the man, pointing to his limbs, which were kicking vigorously about, answered,
"No, but you see my legs do." Illustrations of this independent action of the spinal cord are
common in animals. A headless wasp will ply its sting energetically. A fowl, after its head
is cut off, will flap its wings and jump about as if in pain, although, of course, all sensation
has ceased. "A water beetle, having had its head removed, remained motionless as long as it
rested on a dry surface, but when cast into water, it executed the usual swimming motions with
great energy and rapidity, striking all its comrades to one side by its violence, and persisting
in these for more than half an hour."] The medulla oblongata carries on the process of respiration.
The great sympathetic system binds together all the organs of the body.

USES OF REFLEX ACTION.--We breathe eighteen times every minute; we stand erect without a consciousness
of effort; [Footnote: In this way we account for the perilous feats performed by the somnambulist.
He is not conscious, as his operations are not directed by the cerebrum, but by the other nervous
centers. Were he to attempt their repetition when awake, the emotion of fear might render it
impossible.] we walk, eat, digest, and at the same time carry on a train of thought. Our brain
is thus emancipated from the petty detail of life. If we were obliged to attend to every breath,
every pulsation of the heart, every wink of the eye, our time would be wasted in keeping alive.
Mere standing would require our entire attention. Thus we play a familiar tune upon an instrument
and carry on a conversation at the same time. All the possibilities of an education and the
power of forming habits are based upon this principle. No act we perform ends with itself.
It leaves behind it in the nervous centers a tendency to do the same thing again. Our physical
being thus conspires to fix upon us the habits of a good or an evil life. Our very thoughts
are written in our muscles, so that the expression of our face and even our features grow into
harmony with the life we live.

BRAIN EXERCISE.--The nervous system demands its life and activity. The mind grows by what it
feeds on. One who reads mainly light literature, who lolls on the sofa or worries through the
platitudes of an idle or fashionable life, decays mentally; his system loses tone, and physical
weakness follows mental poverty. On the other hand, an excessive use of the mind withdraws
force from the body, whose weakness, reacting on the brain, produces gradual decay and serious
diseases. (See p. 331.)

The brain grows by the growth of the body. The body grows through good food, fresh air, and
work and rest in suitable proportion. For the full development and perfect use of a strong
mind, a strong body is essential. Hence, in seeking to expand and store the intellect, we should
be equally thoughtful of the growth and health of the body.

SLEEP [Footnote: Sleep procured by medicine is rarely as beneficial as that secured naturally.
The disturbance to the nervous system is often sufficient to counterbalance all the good results.
The habit of seeking sleep in this way, without the advice of a physician, is to be most earnestly
deprecated. The dose must be constantly increased to produce the effect, and thus great injury
may be caused. Often, too, where laudanum or morphine is used, the person unconsciously comes
into a terrible and fatal bondage. (See p. 342.) Especially should infants never be dosed with
cordials, as is a common family practice. The damage done to helpless childhood by the ignorant
and reckless use of soothing syrups is frightful to contemplate. All the ordinary sleeping
draughts have life-destroying properties, as is proved by the fatal effects of an overdose.
At the best, they paralyze the nerve centers, disorder the digestion, and poison the blood.
Their promiscuous use is therefore full of danger.] is as essential as food. During the day,
the process of tearing down goes on; during the night, the work of building up should make
good the loss. In youth more sleep is needed than in old age, when nature makes few permanent
repairs, and is content with temporary expedients. The number of hours required for sleep must
be decided by each person. Napoleon took only five hours, but most people need from six to
eight hours,--brain workers even more. In general, one should sleep until he naturally wakes.
If one's rest be broken, it should be made up as soon as possible. (See p. 334.)

SUNLIGHT.--The influence of the sun's rays upon the nervous system is very marked. [Footnote:
The necessity of light for young children is not half appreciated. Many of their diseases,
and nearly all the cadaverous looks of those brought up in great cities, are ascribable to
the deficiency of light and air. When we see the glass room of the photographers in every street,
in the topmost story, we grudge them their application to what is often a mere personal vanity.
Why should not a nursery be constructed in the same manner? If parents knew the value of light
to the skin, especially to children of a scrofulous tendency, we should have plenty of these
glass house nurseries, where children might run about in a proper temperature, free from much
of that clothing which at present seals up the skin--that great supplementary lung--against
sunlight and oxygen. They would save many a weakly child who now perishes from lack of these
necessaries of infant life.--DR. WINTER.] It is said also to have the effect of developing
red disks in the blood. All vigor and activity come from the sun. Vegetables grown in subdued
light have a bleached and faded look. An infant kept in absolute darkness would grow into a
shapeless idiot. That room is the healthiest to which the sun has the freest access. Epidemics
frequently attack the inhabitants of the shady side of a street, and exempt those on the sunny
side. If, on a slight indisposition, we should go out into the open air and bright sunlight,
instead of shutting ourselves up in a close, dark chamber, we might often avoid a serious illness.
The sun bath is doubtless a most efficient remedy for many diseases. Our window blinds and
curtains should be thrown back and open, and we should let the blessed air and sun stream in
to invigorate and cheer. No house buried in shade, and no room with darkened windows, is fit
for human habitation. In damp and darkness, lies in wait almost every disease to which flesh
is heir. The sun is their only successful foe. (See p. 336.)

WONDERS OF THE BRAIN.--After having seen the beautiful contrivances and the exquisite delicacy
of the lower organs, it is natural to suppose that when we come to the brain we should find
the most elaborate machinery. How surprising, then, it is to have revealed to us only cells
and fibers! The brain is the least solid and most unsubstantial looking organ in the body.
Eighty per cent of water, seven of albumen, some fat, and a few minor substances constitute
the instrument which rules the world. Strangest of all, the brain, which is the seat of sensation,
is itself without sensation. Every nerve, every part of the spinal cord, is keenly alive to
the slightest touch, yet "the brain may be cut, burned, or electrified without producing pain."

ALCOHOLIC DRINKS AND NARCOTICS.

ALCOHOL (Continued from p. 187).

EFFECT UPON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.--In the progressive influence of alcohol upon the nervous system,
there are, according to the researches of Dr. Richardson, four successive stages.

1. THE STAGE OF EXCITEMENT. [Footnote: The pupil should be careful to note here that alcohol
does not act upon the heart directly, and cause it to contract with more force. The idea that
alcohol gives energy and activity to the muscles is entirely false. It really, as we have seen
(p. 183), weakens muscular contraction. The enfeeblement begins in the first stage, and continues
in the other stages with increased effect. The heart beats quickly merely because the resistance
of the minute controlling vessels is taken off, and it works without being under proper regulation.
Alcohol should be ranked among the narcotics.--RICHARDSON.]-- The first effect of alcohol,
as we have already described on page 144, is to paralyze the nerves that lead to the extreme
and minute blood vessels, and so regulate the passage of the blood through the capillary system.
The vital force, thus drawn into the nervous centers, drives the machinery of life with tremendous
energy. The heart jumps like the mainspring of a watch when the resistance of the wheels is
removed. The blood surges through the body with increased force. Every capillary tube in the
system is swollen and flushed, like the reddened nose and cheek.

In all this there is exhilaration, but no nourishment; there is animation, but no permanent
power conferred on brain or muscle. Alcohol may cheer for the moment. It may set the sluggish
blood in motion, start the flow of thought, and excite a temporary gayety. It may excite muscle
to quick action, but it does nothing at its own cost, fills up nothing it has destroyed, and
itself leads to destruction." Even the mental activity it has excited is an unsafe state of
mind, for that just poise of the faculties so essential to good judgment is disturbed by the
presence of the intruder. Johnson well remarked, "Wine improves conversation by taking the
edge off the understanding."

2. THE STAGE OF MUSCULAR WEAKNESS.--If the action of the alcohol be still continued, the spinal
cord is next affected by this powerful narcotic. The control of some of the muscles is lost.
Those of the lower lip usually fail first, then those of the lower limbs, and the staggering,
uncertain steps betray the result. The muscles themselves, also, become feebler as the power
of contraction diminishes. The temperature, which, for a time, was slightly increased, soon
begins to fall as the heat is radiated; the body is cooled, and the well-known "alcoholic chill"
is felt.

3. THE STAGE OF MENTAL WEAKNESS.--The cerebrum is now implicated. The ideal and emotional faculties
are quickened, while the will is weakened. The center of thought being overpowered, the mind
is a chaos. Ideas flock in thick and fast. The tongue is loosened. The judgment loses its hold
on the acts. The reason giving way, the animal instincts generally assume the mastery of the
man. The hidden nature comes to the surface. All the gloss of education and social restraint
falls off, and the lower nature stands revealed. The coward shows himself more craven, the
braggart more boastful, the bold more daring, and the cruel more brutal. The inebriate is liable
to become the perpetrator of any outrage that the slightest provocation may suggest.

4. THE STAGE OF UNCONSCIOUSNESS.--At last, prostration ensues, and the wild, mad revel of the
drunkard ends with utter senselessness. In common speech, the man is "dead drunk." Brain and
spinal cord are both benumbed. Fortunately, the two nervous centers which supply the heart
and the diaphragm are the slowest to be influenced. So, even in this final stage, the breathing
and the circulation still go on, though the other organs have stopped. Were it not for this,
every person thoroughly intoxicated would die. [Footnote: Cold has a wonderful influence in
hastening this stage, so that a person, previously only in the first stage of excitement, on
going outdoors on a winter night, may rapidly sink into a lethargy (become comatose), fall,
and die. He is then commonly said to have perished with cold. The signs of this coma are of
great practical importance, since so many persons die in police stations and elsewhere who
are really comatose, when they are supposed to be only sound asleep. The pulse is slow, and
almost imperceptible. The face is pale, and the skin cold. "If the arm be pinched, it is not
moved; if the eyeballs are touched, the lids will not sink." The respiration becomes slower
and slower, and, if the person dies, it is because liquid collects in the bronchial tubes,
and stops the passage of the air. The man then actually drowns in his own secretions.]

EFFECT UPON THE BRAIN.--Alcohol seems to have a special affinity for the brain. This organ
absorbs more than any other, and its delicate structure is correspondingly affected. The "Vascular
enlargement" here reaches its height. The tiny vessels become clogged with blood that is unfitted
to nourish, because loaded with carbonic acid, and deprived of the usual quantity of the life-giving
oxygen.--HINTON. The brain is, in the language of the physiologist, malfunctioned. The mind
but slowly rallies from the stupor of the fourth stage, and a sense of dullness and depression
remains to show with what difficulty the fatigued organ recovers its normal condition. So marked
is the effect of the narcotic poison, that some authorities hold that "a once thoroughly intoxicated
brain never fully becomes what it was before."

In time, the free use of liquor hardens and thickens the membrane enveloping the nervous matter;
the nerve corpuscles undergo a "Fatty degeneration"; the blood vessels lose their elasticity;
and the vital fluid, flowing less freely through the obstructed channels, fails to afford the
old-time nourishment. The consequent deterioration of the nervous substance--the organ of thought--shows
itself in the weakened mind [Footnote: The habitual use of fermented liquors, even to an extent
far short of what is necessary to produce intoxication, injures the body, and diminishes the
mental power.--Sir Henry Thompson.] that we so often notice in a person accustomed to drink,
and at last lays the foundation of various nervous disorders--epilepsy, paralysis, and insanity.
[Footnote: Casper, the great statistician of Berlin, says: "So far as that city is concerned,
one third of the insane coming from the poorer classes, were made so by spirit drinking."]
The law of heredity here again asserts itself, and the inebriate's children often inherit the
disease which he has escaped.

Chief among the consequences of this perverted and imperfect nutrition of the brain is that
intermediate state between intoxication and insanity, well known as Delirium Tremens. "It is
characterized by a low, restless activity of the cerebrum, manifesting itself in muttering
delirium, with occasional paroxysms of greater violence. The victim almost always apprehends
some direful calamity; he imagines his bed to be covered with loathsome reptiles; he sees the
walls of his apartment crowded with foul specters; and he imagines his friends and attendants
to be fiends come to drag him down to a fiery abyss beneath."--CARPENTER. (See p. 287.)

INFLUENCE UPON THE MENTAL AND MORAL POWERS.--So intimate is the relation between the body and
the mind, that an injury to one harms the other. The effect of alcoholized blood is to weaken
the will. The one habitually under its influence often shocks us by his indecision and his
readiness to break a promise to reform. The truth is, he has lost, in a measure, his power
of self-control. At last, he becomes physically unable to resist the craving demand of his
morbid appetite.

Other faculties share in this mental wreck. The intellectual vision becomes less penetrating,
the decisions of the mind less reliable, and the grasp of thought less vigorous. The logic
grows muddy. A thriftless, reckless feeling is developed. Ere long, self-respect is lost, and
then ambition ceases to allure, and the high spirit sinks.

Along with this mental deterioration comes also a failure of the moral sense. The fine fiber
of character undergoes a "degeneration" as certain as that of the muscles themselves. Broken
promises tell of a lowered standard of veracity, and a dulled sense of honor, quite as much
as of an impaired will. Under the subtle influence of the ever-present poison, signs of spiritual
weakness multiply fast. Conscience is lulled to rest. Reason is enfeebled. Customary restraints
are easily thrown off. The sensibilities are blunted. There is less ability to appreciate nice
shades of right and wrong. Great moral principles and motives lose their power to influence.
The judgment fools with duty. The future no longer reaches back its hand to guide the present.
The better nature has lost its supremacy.

The wretched victim of appetite will now gratify his tyrannical passion for drink at any expense
of deceit or crime. He becomes the blind instrument of his insane impulses, and commits acts
from which he would once have shrunk with horror. [Footnote: Richardson sums up the various
diseases caused by alcohol, as follows: "(a). Diseases of the brain and nervous system, indicated
by such names as apoplexy, epilepsy, paralysis, vertigo, softening of the brain, delirium tremens,
dipsomania or inordinate craving for drink, loss of memory, and that general failure of the
mental power, called dementia. (b). Diseases of the lungs: one form of consumption, congestion,
and subsequent bronchitis. (c). Diseases of the heart: irregular beat, feebleness of the muscular
walls, dilatation, disease of the valves. (d). Diseases of the blood: scurvy, excess of water
or dropsy, separation of fibrin. (e). Diseases of the stomach: feebleness of the stomach, indigestion,
flatulency, irritation, and sometimes inflammation. (f). Diseases of the bowels: relaxation
or purging, irritation. (g). Diseases of the liver: congestion, hardening and shrinking, cirrhosis.
(h). Diseases of the kidneys: change of structure into fatty or waxy-like condition and other
results leading to dropsy, or sometimes to fatal sleep. (i). Diseases of the muscles: fatty
change in the muscles, by which they lose their power for proper active contraction. (j). Diseases
of the membranes of the body: thickening and loss of elasticity, by which the parts wrapped
up in the membrane are impaired for use, and premature decay is induced."] Sometimes he even
takes a malignant pleasure in injuring those whom Nature has ordained he should protect. [Footnote:
It has been argued that a man should not be punished for any crime he may commit during intoxication,
but rather for knowingly giving up the reins of reason and conscience, and thus subjecting
himself to the rule of his evil passions. Voluntarily to stimulate the mind and put it into
a condition where it may drive one to ruin, is very like the act of an engineer who should
get up steam in his engine, and then, having opened the valves, desert his post, and let the
monster go thundering down the track to sure destruction. Certain persons are thrown into the
stage of mental weakness by a single glass of liquor. How can they be excused when the fact
of their peculiar liability lends additional force to the argument of abstemiousness, and they
know that their only safety lies in total abstinence?--CARPENTER'S Physiology.]

2. TOBACCO.

The Constituents of Tobacco Smoke are numerous, but the prominent ones are carbonic-acid, carbonic-oxide,
and ammonia gases; carbon, or soot; and nicotine. The proportion of these substances varies
with different kinds of tobacco, the pipe used, and the rapidity of the combustion. Carbonic
acid tends to produce sleepiness and headache. Carbonic oxide, in addition, causes a tremulous
movement of the muscles, and so of the heart. Ammonia bites the tongue of the smoker, excites
the salivary glands, and causes dryness of the mouth and throat. Nicotine is a powerful poison.
The amount contained in one or two strong cigars, if thrown directly into the blood, would
cause death. Nicotine itself is complex, yielding a volatile substance that gives the odor
to the breath and clothing; and also a bitter extract which produces the sickening taste of
an old pipe. In smoking, some of the nicotine is decomposed, forming pyridine, picoline, and
other poisonous alkaloids. [Footnote: The analysis of tobacco as given by different authorities
varies greatly. The one stated in the text suffices for the purposes of this chapter. Von Eulenberg
names several other products of the combustion. One hundred pounds of the dry leaf may yield
as high as seven pounds of nicotine. Havana tobacco contains about two per cent, and Virginia
about six per cent.--See JOHNSTON & CHURCH'S Chemistry of Common Life, and MILLER'S Organic
Chemistry.]

PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS.--The poison of tobacco, set free by the process either of chewing or
smoking, when for the first time it is swept through the system by the blood, powerfully affects
the body. Nausea is felt, and the stomach seeks to throw off the offending substance. The brain
is inflamed, and headache follows. The motor nerves becoming irritated, giddiness ensues. Thus
Nature earnestly protests against the formation of this habit. But, after repeated trials,
the system adjusts itself to the new conditions. A "tolerance" of the poison is finally established,
and smoking causes none of the former symptoms. Such powerful substances can not, however,
be constantly inhaled without producing marked changes. The three great eliminating organs--the
lungs, the skin, and the kidneys-- throw off a large part of the products, but much remains
in the system. When the presence of the poison is constant, and especially when the smoking
or chewing is excessive, the disturbance that at first is merely functional, must necessarily,
in many cases at least, lead to a chronic derangement.

Probably in this, as in the case of other deleterious articles of diet, the strong and healthy
will seem to escape entirely, while the weak and those predisposed to disease will be injured
in direct proportion to the extent of the indulgence. Those whose employment leads to active,
outdoor work, will show no sign of nicotine poisoning, while the man of sedentary habits will
sooner or later be the victim of dyspepsia, sleeplessness, nervousness, paralysis, or other
organic difficulties. Even where the user of tobacco himself escapes harm, the law of heredity
asserts itself, and the innocent offspring only too often inherit an impaired constitution,
and a tendency to nervous complaints.

THE VARIOUS DISTURBANCES produced in different individuals and constitutions by smoking have
been summed up by Dr. Richardson as follows: "(a) In the blood, it causes undue fluidity, and
change in the red corpuscles; (b) in the stomach, it gives rise to debility, nausea, and vomiting;
(c) in the mucous membrane of the mouth, it produces enlargement and soreness of the tonsils--smoker's
sore throat--redness, dryness, and occasional peeling of the membrane, and either unnatural
firmness and contraction, or sponginess of the gums; and, where the pipe rests on the lips,
oftentimes 'epithelial cancer'; (d) in the heart, it causes debility of the organ, and irregular
action; (e) in the bronchial surface of the lungs, when that is already irritable, it sustains
irritation, and increases the cough; (f) in the organs of sense, it produces dilation of the
pupils of the eye, confusion of vision, bright lines, luminous or cobweb specks, and long retention
of images on the retina, with analogous symptoms affecting the ear, viz., inability to define
sounds clearly, and the occurrence of a sharp, ringing noise like a whistle; (g) in the brain,
it impairs the activity of the organ, oppressing it if it be nourished, but soothing it if
it be exhausted; (h) it leads to paralysis in the motor and sympathetic nerves, and to over-secretion
from the glands which the sympathetic nerves control."

IS TOBACCO A FOOD?--Here, as in the case of alcohol, the reply is a negative one. Tobacco manifests
no characteristic of a food. It can not impart to the blood an atom of nutritive matter for
building up the body. It does not add to, but rather subtracts from, the total vital force.
It confers no potential power upon muscle or brain. It stimulates by cutting off the nervous
supply from the extremities and concentrating it upon the centers. But stimulation is not nourishment;
it is only a rapid spending of the capital stock. There is no greater error than to mistake
the exciting of an organ for its strengthening.

THE INFLUENCE UPON YOUTH.--Here, too, science utters no doubtful voice. Experience asserts
only one conviction. Tobacco retards the development of mind and body. [Footnote: Cigarettes
are especially injurious from the irritating smoke of the paper covering, taken into the lungs,
and also because the poison fumes of the tobacco are more directly inhaled. In case of the
cheap cigarettes often smoked by boys the ingredients used are harmful, while one revolts at
the thought of the filthy materials, refuse cigar stumps, etc., employed in their manufacture.]
The law of nature is that of steady growth. It can not admit of a daily, even though it be
merely a functional, disturbance that weakens the digestion, that causes the heart to labor
excessively, that prevents the perfect oxidation of the blood, that interferes with the assimilation,
and that deranges the nervous system. [Footnote: There is one influence of tobacco that every
young man should understand. In many cases, like alcohol, it seems to blunt the sensibilities,
and to make its user careless of the rights and feelings of others. This is often noticed in
common life. We meet everywhere "devotees of the weed," who, ignoring the fact that tobacco
is disagreeable to many persons, think only of the gratification of their selfish appetite.
They smoke or chew in any place or company. They permit the cigar fumes to blow into the faces
of passers-by. They sit where the wind carries the smoke of their pipes so that others must
inhale it. They expectorate upon the floor of cars, hotels, and even private homes. They take
no pains to remove the odor that lingers about their person and clothing. They force all who
happen to be near, their companions, their fellow-travelers, to inhale the nauseating odor
of tobacco. Everything must be sacrificed to the one primal necessity of such persons--a smoke.
Now, a young man just beginning life, with his fortune to make, and his success to achieve,
can not afford to burden himself with a habit that is costly, that will make his presence offensive
to many persons, and that may perhaps render him less sensitive to the best influences and
perceptions of manhood.] No one has a right thus to check and disturb continually the regular
processes of his physical and mental progress. Hence, the young man (especially if he be of
a nervous, sensitive organization) who uses tobacco deliberately diminishes the possible energy
with which he might commence the work of life; [Footnote: In the Polytechnic School at Paris,
the pupils were divided into two classes--the smokers, and the non-smokers. The latter not
only excelled on the entrance examinations, but during the entire course of study. Dr. Decaisne
examined thirty-eight boys who smoked, and found twenty-seven of them diseased from nicotine
poisoning. So long ago as 1868, in consequence of these results, the Minister of Public Instruction
forbade the use of tobacco by the pupils.

Dr. Gihon, medical director of the Naval Academy at Annapolis, in his report for 1881, says:
"The most important matter in the health history of the students is that relating to tobacco,
and its interdiction is absolutely essential to their future health and usefulness. In this
view I have been sustained by my colleagues, and by all sanitarians in civil and military life
whose views I have been able to obtain."] while he comes under the bondage of a habit that
may become stronger than his will, and under the influence of a narcotic that may beguile his
faculties and palsy his strength at the very moment when every power should be awake.

Another peril still lies in the wake of this masterful poison habit. Tobacco causes thirst
and depression that only too often and naturally lead to the use of liquor. (See p. 338.)

3. OPIUM.

Opium is the dried juice of the poppy. In Eastern countries, this flower is cultivated in immense
fields for the sake of this product. When a cut is made in the poppy head, a tiny tear of milky
juice exudes, and hardens. These little drops are gathered and prepared for the market, an
acre yielding, it is said, about twenty-five pounds. Throughout the East, opium is generally
smoked; but in Western countries laudanum and paregoric (tinctures of opium), and morphine--a
powerful alkaloid contained in opium, are generally used. The drug itself is also eaten.

PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECT.--Opium, in its various forms, acts directly upon the nerves, a small
dose quieting pain, and a larger one soothing to sleep. It arouses the brain, and fires the
imagination to a wonderful pitch. [Footnote: So far as its effects are concerned, it matters
little in what form opium is taken, whether solid as in pills, liquid as in laudanum, or vaporized,
as when inhaled from a pipe. The opium slave is characterized by trembling steps, a curved
spine, sunken glassy eyes, sallow withered features, and often by contraction of the muscles
of the neck and fingers. In the East, when the drug ceases its influence, the opium eater renews
it with corrosive sublimate till, finally, this also fails of effect, and he gradually sinks
into the grave.] The reaction from this unnatural excitant is correspondingly depressing; and
the melancholy, the "overwhelming horror" that ensues, calls for a renewal of the stimulus.
The dose must be gradually increased to produce the original exhilaration. [Footnote: The victim
of opium is bound to a drug from which he derives no benefits, but which slowly deprives him
of health and happiness, finally to end in idiocy or premature death. Whatever the victim's
condition or surroundings may be, the opium must be taken at certain times with inexorable
regularity. The liquor or tobacco user can, for a time, go without the use of these agents,
and no regular hours are necessary. During sickness, and more especially during the eruptive
fevers, he does not desire tobacco or liquor. The opium eater has no such reprieves; his dose
must be taken, and, in painful complications affecting the stomach, a large increase is demanded
to sustain the system. If, in forming the habit, two doses are taken each day, the victim is
obliged to maintain that number. It is the unceasing, everlasting slavery of regularity that
humiliates opium eaters by a sense of their own weakness.--HUBBARD on The Opium Habit and Alcoholism.]
The seductive nature of the drug leads the unfortunate victim on step by step until he finds
himself fast bound in the fetters of one of the most tyrannical habits known to man.

To go on is to wreck all one's powers--physical and mental. To throw off the habit, requires
a determination that but few possess. Yet even when the custom is broken, the system is long
in recovering from the shock. There seems to be a failure of every organ. The digestion is
weakened, food is no longer relished, the muscles waste, the skin shrivels, the nervous centers
are paralyzed, and a premature old age comes on apace. De Quincey, four months after he had
cast away the opium bonds, wrote, "Think of me as one still agitated, writhing, throbbing,
palpitating, shattered."

No person can be too careful in the use of laudanum, paregoric, and morphine. They may be taken
on a physician's prescription as a sedative from racking pain, [Footnote: Many persons learn
to inject morphine beneath the skin by means of a "hypodermic syringe." The operation is painless,
and seems an innocent one. It throws the narcotic directly into the circulation, and relief
from pain is often almost instantaneous. But the danger of forming the opium habit is not lessened,
and the effect of using the drug in this form for a long time is just as injurious as opium
smoking itself. Opium in one of its forms enters largely into the composition of many of the
painkillers and patent medicines so freely advertised for domestic use in the present day,
and for this reason the greatest care is needed in having recourse to any of them. Taken, perhaps,
in the first instance, to alleviate the torments of neuralgia or toothache, what proves to
be a remedy soon becomes a source of gratification, which the wretchedness that follows on
abstinence renders increasingly difficult to lay aside. The same must be said of bromide of
potassium and hydrate of chloral, frequently resorted to as a remedy for sleeplessness: the
system quickly becomes habituated to their use, and they can then be relinquished only at the
cost of much suffering. Indeed, the last mentioned of these two drugs obtains over the mind
a power which may be compared to that of opium, and is, moreover, liable to occasion the disease
known as chloralism, by which the system ultimately becomes a complete wreck. Looking at the
whole question of the medicinal use of narcotics, it is perhaps not too much to say that they
should never be employed except with the authority of a competent medical adviser.-- Chambers's
Journal.] but if followed up for any length of time, the powerful habit may be formed ere one
is aware. Then comes the opium eater's grave, or the opium eater's struggle for life!

4. CHLORAL HYDRATE.

CHLORAL HYDRATE is a drug frequently used to cause sleep. It leaves behind no headache or lassitude,
as is often the case with morphine. It is, however, a treacherous remedy. It is cumulative
in its effects, i. e., even a small and harmless dose, persisted in for a long period, may
produce a gradual accumulation of evil results that in the end will prove fatal.

THE PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECT of its prolonged use is very marked. The appetite becomes capricious.
The secretions are unnatural. Nausea and flatulency often ensue. Then the nervous system is
involved. The heart is affected. Sleep, instead of responding to the drug, as at first, is
broken and disturbed. The eyesight fails. The circulation is enfeebled, and the pulse becomes
weak, rapid, and irregular. There is a tendency to fainting and to difficult respiration. Sometimes
the impoverished blood induces a disease resembling scurvy, the ends of the fingers ulcerate,
and the face is disfigured by blotches. An excessive dose may result in death.

Prolonged habitual use of chloral hydrate tends to debase the mind and morals of the subject
in the same manner as indulgence in alcohol, ether, or chloroform.

5. CHLOROFORM.

CHLOROFORM is an artificial product generally obtained, by distillation, from a mixture of
chloride of lime, water, and alcohol. It was discovered in 1831 by Samuel Guthrie, of Sackett's
Harbor, New York. It is a colorless, transparent volatile liquid, with a strong ethereal odor.

PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECT.--Chloroform is a powerful anesthetic, which, when inhaled, causes a temporary
paralysis of the nervous system, and thus a complete insensibility to pain. There is great
peril attending its use, even in the hands of the most skillful and experienced practitioners.
It is sometimes prescribed by a physician, and afterward (as in the case of laudanum, morphine,
and chloral) the sufferer, charmed with the release from pain and the peaceful slumber secured,
buys the Lethean liquid for himself. Its use soon becomes an apparent necessity. The craving
for the narcotic at a stated time is almost irresistible. The patient, compelled to give up
the use of chloroform, will demand, entreat, pray for another dose, in a heartrending manner,
never to be forgotten. Paleness and debility, the earliest symptoms, are followed by mental
prostration. Familiarity with this dangerous drug begets carelessness, and its victims are
frequently found dead in their beds, with the handkerchief from which they inhaled the volatile
poison clutched in their lifeless hands.

6. COCAINE.

Cocaine is an alkaloid prepared from the erythroxylon coca, a shrub, five or six feet high,
found wild in the mountainous regions of Ecuador and Peru, where it is also cultivated by the
natives. The South American Indians, for centuries, have chewed coca leaves as a stimulant,
but the highly poisonous principle, now called cocaine, to which the plant owes its peculiar
effects, was not discovered till 1859. Within a few years this drug has come into favor as
an agent to produce local anesthesia, and has proved exceedingly valuable in surgical operations
upon the eye and other sensitive organs. It has already, however, been diverted from its legitimate
use as a benefaction, and to the other evils of the day is now added the "cocaine habit," which
is, perhaps, even more dangerous and difficult to abandon than either the alcohol or the opium
habit.

PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECT.--Applied locally, cocaine greatly lessens and even annihilates pain.
Taken internally, it acts as a powerful stimulant to the nervous system, its physiological
action being similar to that of theine (p. 170), caffeine, and theobromine. Used hypodermically,
its immediate effect, says one to whom it was thus administered, is to cause "great pallor
of countenance, profuse frontal perspiration, sunken eyes, enlarged pupils, lessened sensitiveness
of the cornea and conjunctiva, lowered arterial tension, and a feeble pulse and heart beat.
Under its influence I could not reason. Everything seemed to run through my brain, and in vain
I summoned all my will power to overcome an overwhelming sleepiness." A few doses of this drug
will in some persons produce temporary insanity. Used to excess, it leads to permanent madness
or idiocy. "Cocaine," says a writer in the Medical Review, "is a dangerous therapeutic toy
not to be used as a sensational plaything. If it should come into as general use as the other
intoxicants of its class, it will help to fill the asylums, inebriate and insane."

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.

1. Why is the pain of incipient hip disease frequently felt in the knee?

2. Why does a child require more sleep than an aged person?

3. When you put your finger in the palm of a sleeping child, why will he grasp it?

4. How may we strengthen the brain?

5. What is the object of pain?

6. Why will a blow on the stomach sometimes stop the heart?

7. How long will it take for the brain of a man six feet high to receive news of an injury
to his foot, and to reply?

8. How can we grow beautiful?

9. Why do intestinal worms sometimes affect a child's sight?

10. Is there any indication of character in physiognomy?

11. When one's finger is burned, where is the ache?

12. Is a generally closed parlor a healthful room?

13. Why can an idle scholar read his lesson and at the same time count the marbles in his pocket?

14. In amputating a limb, what part, when divided, will cause the keenest pain?

15. What is the effect of bad air on nervous people?

16. Is there any truth in the proverb that "he who sleeps dines"?

17. What does a high, wide forehead indicate?

18. How does indigestion frequently cause a headache?

19. What is the cause of one's foot being "asleep"? [Footnote: Here the nervous force is prevented
from passing by compression. Just how this is done, or what is kept from passing, we can not
tell. If a current of electricity were moving through a rubber tube full of mercury, a slight
squeeze would interrupt it. These cases may depend on the same general principle, but we can
not assert it.--HUXLEY. The tingling sensation caused by the compression is transferred to
the foot, whence the nerve starts.]

20. When an injury to the nose has been remedied by transplanting skin from the forehead, why
is a touch to the former felt in the latter?

21. Are closely curtained windows healthful?

22. Why, in falling from a height, do the limbs instinctively take a position to defend the
important organs?

23. What causes the pylorus to open and close at the right time?

24. Why is pleasant exercise most beneficial?

25. Why does grief cause one to lose his appetite?

26. Why should we never study directly after dinner?

27. What produces the peristaltic movement of the stomach?

28. Why is a healthy child so restless and full of mischief?

29. Why is a slight blow on the back of a rabbit's neck fatal?

30. Why can one walk and carry on a conversation at the same time?

31. What are the dangers of overstudy?

32. What is the influence of idleness upon the brain?

33. State the close relation which exists between physical and mental health and disease.

34. In what consists the value of the power of habit?

35. How many pairs of nerves supply the eye?

36. Describe the reflex actions in reading aloud.

37. Under what circumstances does paralysis occur?

38. If the eyelids of a profound sleeper were raised, and a candle brought near, would the
iris contract?

39. How does one cough in his sleep?

40. Give illustrations of the unconscious action of the brain.

41. Is chewing tobacco more injurious than smoking?

42. Ought a man to retire from business while his faculties are still unimpaired?

43. Which is the more exhaustive to the brain, worry or severe mental application?

44. Is it a blessing to be placed beyond the necessity for work?

45. Show how anger, hate, and the other degrading passions are destructive to the brain. [Footnote:
"One of the surest means for keeping the body and mind in perfect health consists in learning
to hold the passions in subservience to the reasoning faculties. This rule applies to every
passion. Man, distinguished from all other animals by the peculiarity that his reason is placed
above his passions to be the director of his will, can protect himself from every mere animal
degradation resulting from passionate excitement. The education of the man should be directed
not to suppress such passions as are ennobling, but to bring all under governance, and specially
to subdue those most destructive passions, anger, hate, and fear."]

46. Are not amusements, to repair the waste of the nervous energy, especially needed by persons
whose life is one of care and toil?

47. Is not severe mental labor incompatible with a rapidly growing body?

48. How shall we induce the system to perform all its functions regularly

49. How does alcohol interfere with the action of the nerves?

50. What is the general effect of alcohol upon the character?

51. Does alcohol tend to produce clearness and vigor of thought?

52. What is the general effect of alcohol on the muscles?

53. Does alcohol have any effect on the bones? The skin?

54. What is the cause of the "alcoholic chill"?

55. Show how alcohol tends to develop man's lower, rather than his higher, nature.

56. When we wish really to strengthen the brain, should we use alcohol?

57. Why is alcohol used to preserve anatomical specimens?

58. What is meant by an inherited taste for liquor?

59. Ought a person to be punished for a crime committed during intoxication?

60. Should a boy ever smoke?

61. To what extent are we responsible for the health of our body?

62. Why does alcohol tend to collect in the brain?

63. Does the use of alcohol tend to increase crime and poverty?

VIII.

THE SPECIAL SENSES.

HOLMES.

"Let us remember that if we get a glimpse of the details of natural phenomena, and of those
movements which constitute life, it is not in considering them as a whole, but in analyzing
them as far as our limited means will permit. In the vibrations of the globe of air which surrounds
our planet, as in the undulations of the ether which fills the immensity of space, it is always
by molecules which are intangible for us, put in motion by nature, always by the infinitely
little, that she acts in exciting the organs of sense, and she has modeled these organs in
a proportion which enables them to partake in the movement which she impresses upon the universe.
She can paint with equal facility on a fraction of a line of space on the retina, the grandest
landscape or the nervelets of a rose leaf; the celestial vault on which Sirius is but a luminous
point, or the sparkling dust of a butterfly's wing; the roar of the tempest, the roll of thunder,
the echo of an avalanche, find equal place in the labyrinth whose almost imperceptible cavities
seem destined to receive only the most delicate sounds."

| 1. THE TOUCH...| 1. Description of the Organ. |                |2. Its Uses. |          
| 2. THE TASTE...| 1. Description of the Organ. |                |2. Its Uses. |          
| 3. THE SMELL...| 1. Description of the Organ. |                |2. Its Uses. |          
|                | 1. Description of the   | a. External Ear. |                |     Organ...............|
b. Middle Ear. | 4. THE HEARING.|                         |c. Internal Ear. |             
| 2. How we Hear |                |3. Hygiene of the Ear. |                  |            
| 1. Description of the Organ. |                | 2. Eyelids, and Tears. |                |
3. Structure of the Retina. |5. THE SIGHT...| 4. How we see. | 5. The Use of the Crystalline
Lens. | 6. Near and Far Sight. | 7. Color Blindness. |8. Hygiene of the Eyes.

THE SPECIAL SENSES

1. TOUCH.

DESCRIPTION.--Touch is sometimes called the "common sense," since its nerves are spread over
the whole body. It is most delicate, however, in the point of the tongue and the tips of the
fingers. The surface of the cutis is covered with minute, conical projections called papille
(Fig. 24). [Footnote: In the palm of the hand, where there are at least twelve thousand in
a square inch, we can see the fine ridges along which they are arranged.] Each one of these
papille contains its tiny nerve twigs, which receive the impression and transmit it to the
brain, where the perception is produced.

USES.--Touch is the first of the senses used by a child. By it we obtain our idea of solidity,
and throughout life rectify all other sensations. Thus, when we see anything curious, our first
desire is to handle it.

The sensation of touch is generally relied upon, yet, if we hold a marble in the manner shown
in Fig. 57, it will seem like two marbles; and if we touch the fingers thus crossed to our
tongue, we shall seem to feel two tongues. Again, if we close our eyes and let another person
move one of our fingers over a plane surface, first lightly, then with greater pressure, and
then lightly again, we shall think the surface concave.

FIG. 57.

This organ is capable of wonderful cultivation. The physician acquires by practice the tactus
eruditus, or learned touch, which is often of great service, while the delicacy of touch possessed
by the blind almost compensates the loss of the absent sense. [Footnote: The sympathy between
the different organs shows how they all combine to make a home for the mind. When one sense
fails, the others endeavor to remedy the defect. It is touching to see how the blind man gets
along without eyes, and the deaf without ears. Cuthbert, though blind, was the most efficient
polisher of telescopic mirrors in London. Saunderson, the successor of Newton as professor
of mathematics at Cambridge, could distinguish between real and spurious medals. There is an
instance recorded of a blind man who could recognize colors. The author knew one who could
tell when he was approaching a tree, by what he described as the "different feeling of the
air."] (See p. 346.)

2. TASTE.

DESCRIPTION.--This sense is located in the papille of the tongue and palate. These papillae
start up when tasting, as you can see by placing a drop of vinegar on another person's tongue,
or your own before a mirror. The velvety look of this organ is given by hair-like projections
of the cuticle upon some of the papille. They absorb the liquid to be tasted, and convey it
to the nerves. [Footnote: An insoluble substance is therefore tasteless.] The back of the tongue
is most sensitive to salt and bitter substances, and, as this part is supplied by the ninth
pair of nerves (Fig. 56), in sympathy with the stomach, such flavors, by sympathy, often produce
vomiting. The edges of the tongue are most sensitive to sweet and sour substances, and as this
part is supplied by the fifth pair of nerves, which also goes to the face, an acid, by sympathy,
distorts the countenance.

FIG. 58.

THE USE OF THE TASTE was originally to guide in the selection of food; but this sense has become
so depraved by condiments and the force of habit that it would be a difficult task to tell
what are one's natural tastes.

3. SMELL. [Footnote: The sense of smell is so intimately connected with that of taste that
we often fail to distinguish between them. Garlic, vanilla, coffee and various spices, which
seem to have such distinct taste, have really a powerful odor, but a feeble flavor.]

DESCRIPTION.--The nose, the seat of the sense of smell, is composed of cartilage covered with
muscles and skin, and joined to the skull by small bones. The nostrils open at the back into
the pharynx, and are lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the throat. The olfactory
nerves (first pair, Fig. 55) enter through a sieve-like, bony plate at the roof of the nose,
and are distributed over the inner surface of the two olfactory chambers. (See p. 346.) The
object to be smelled need not touch the nose, but tiny particles borne on the air enter the
nasal passages. [Footnote: Three quarters of a grain of musk placed in a room will cause a
powerful smell for a considerable length of time without any sensible diminution in weight,
and the box in which musk has been placed retains the perfume for almost an indefinite period.
Haller relates that some papers which had been perfumed by a grain of ambergris, were still
very odoriferous after a lapse of forty years. Odors are transported by the air to a considerable
distance. A dog recognizes his master's approach by smell even when he is far away; and we
are assured by navigators that the winds bring the delicious odors of the balmy forests of
Ceylon to a distance of ten leagues from the coast. Even after making due allowance for the
effects of the imagination, it is certain that odors act as an excitant on the brain, which
may be dangerous when long continued. They are especially dreaded by the Roman women. It is
well known that in ancient times the women of Rome indulged in a most immoderate use of baths
and perfumes; but those of our times have nothing in common with them in this respect; and
the words of a lady are quoted, who said on admiring an artificial rose, "It is all the more
beautiful that it has no smell." We are warned by the proverb not to discuss colors or tastes,
and we may add odors also. Men and nations differ singularly in this respect. The Laplander
and the Esquimaux find the smell of fish oil delicious. Wrangel says his compatriots, the Russians,
are very fond of the odor of pickled cabbage, which forms an important part of their food;
and asafoetida, it is said, is used as a condiment in Persia, and, in spite of its name, there
are persons who do not find its odor disagreeable any more than that of valerian.--Wonders
of the Human body.]

FIG. 59.

THE USES of the sense of smell are to guide us in the choice of our food, and to warn us against
bad air, and unhealthy localities. (See p. 348.)

4. HEARING.

DESCRIPTION.--The ear is divided into the external, middle, and internal ear.

1. The External Ear is a sheet of cartilage curiously folded for catching sound. The auditory
canal, B, or tube of this ear trumpet, is about an inch long. Across the lower end is stretched
the membrane of the tympanum or drum, which is kept soft by a fluid wax.

FIG. 60.

2. The Middle Ear is a cavity, at the bottom of which is the Eustachian tube, G, leading to
the mouth. Across this chamber hangs a chain of three singular little bones, C, named from
their shape the hammer, the anvil, and the stirrup. All together these tiny bones weigh only
a few grains, yet they are covered by a periosteum, are supplied with blood vessels, and they
articulate with perfect joints (one a ball-and-socket, the other a hinge), having synovial
membranes, cartilages, ligaments, and muscles.

3. The Internal Ear, or labyrinth, as it is sometimes called from its complex character, is
hollowed out of the solid bone. In front, is the vestibule or antechamber, A, about as large
as a grain of wheat; from it open three semicircular canals, D, and the winding stair of the
cochlea, or snail shell, E. Here expand the delicate fibrils of the auditory nerve. Floating
in the liquid which fills the labyrinth is a little bag containing hair-like bristles, fine
sand, and two ear stones (otoliths). All these knocking against the ends of the nerves, serve
to increase any impulse given to the liquid in which they lie. Finally, to complete this delicate
apparatus, in the cochlea are minute tendrils, named the fibers of Corti, from their discoverer.
These are regularly arranged,--the longest at the bottom, and the shortest at the top. Could
this spiral plate, which coils two and a half times around, be unrolled and made to stand upright,
it would form a beautiful microscopic harp of three thousand strings. If it were possible to
strike these cords as one can the keyboard of a piano, he could produce in the mind of the
person experimented upon every variety of tone which the ear can distinguish.

HOW WE HEAR.--Whenever one body strikes another in the air, waves are produced, just as when
we throw a stone into the water a series of concentric circles surrounds the spot where it
sinks. These waves of air strike upon the membrane. This vibrates, and sends the motion along
the chain of bones in the middle ear to the fluids of the labyrinth. Here bristles, sand, and
stones pound away, and the wondrous harp of the cochlea, catching up the pulsations, [Footnote:
The original motion is constantly modified by the medium through which it passes. The bristles,
otoliths, and Cortian fibers of the ear, and the rods and cones of the eye (p. 239) serve to
convert the vibrations into pulsations which act as stimuli of the appropriate nerve. The molecular
change thus produced in the nerve fibers is propagated to the brain.--See Popluar Physics,
p. 182.] carries them to the fibers of the auditory nerve, which conveys them to the brain,
and gives to the mind the idea of sound.

CARE OF THE EAR.--The delicacy of the ear is such that it needs the greatest care. Cold water
should not be allowed to enter the auditory canal. If the wax accumulate, never remove it with
a hard instrument, lest the delicate membrane be injured, but with a little warm water, after
which turn the head to let the water run out, and wipe the ear dry. The hair around the ears
should never be left wet, as it may chill this sensitive organ. If an insect get in the external
ear, pour in a little oil to kill it, and then remove with tepid water. The object of the Eustachian
tube is to admit air into the ear, and thus equalize the pressure on the membrane. If it become
closed by a cold, or if, from any cause, the pressure be made unequal, so as to produce an
unpleasant feeling in the ear, relief may often be obtained by grasping the nose and forcibly
swallowing. (See p. 350.)

5. SIGHT.

FIG. 61.

DESCRIPTION.--The eye is lodged in a bony cavity, protected by the overhanging brow. It is
a globe, about an inch in diameter. The ball is covered by three coats--(l) the sclerotic,
d, a tough, horny casing, which gives shape to the eye, the convex, transparent part in front
forming a window, the cornea, d; (2) the choroid, e, a black lining, to absorb the superfluous
light [Footnote: Neither white rabbits nor albinos have this black lining, and hence their
sight is confused.] and (3) the retina, b, a membrane in which expand fibers of the optic nerve,
o. The crystalline lens, a, brings the rays of light to a focus on the retina. The lens is
kept in place by the ciliary processes, g, arranged like the rays in the disk of a passion
flower. Between the cornea and the crystalline lens is a limpid fluid termed the aqueous humor;
while the vitreous humor--a transparent, jelly-like liquid fills the space (h) back of the
crystalline lens. The pupil, k, is a hole in the colored, muscular curtain, i, the iris (rainbow).
(See p. 352.)

FIG. 62.

EYELIDS AND TEARS.--The eyelids are close-fitting shutters to screen the eye. The inner side
is lined with a mucous membrane that is exceedingly sensitive, and thus aids in protecting
the eye from any irritating substance. The looseness of the skin favors swelling from inflammation
or the effusion of blood, as in a "black eye." The eyelashes serve as a kind of sieve to exclude
the dust, and, with the lids, to shield against a blinding light. Just within the lashes are
oil glands, which lubricate the edges of the lids, and prevent them from adhering to each other.
The tear or lachrymal gland, G, is an oblong body lodged in the bony wall of the orbit. It
empties by several ducts upon the inner surface, at the outer edge of the upper eyelid. Thence
the tears, washing the eye, run into the lachrymal lake, D, a little basin with a rounded border
fitted for their reception. On each side of this lake two canals, C, C, drain off the overplus
through the duct, B, into the nose. In old age and in disease, these canals fail to conduct
the tears away, and hence the lachrymal lake overflows upon the face.

FIG. 63.

STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA.--In Fig. 63 is shown a section of the retina, greatly magnified, since
this membrane never exceeds 1/80 an inch in thickness. On the inner surface next to the vitreous
humor, is a lining membrane not shown in the cut. Next to the choroid and comprising about
1/4 the entire thickness of the retina, is a multitude of transparent, colorless, microscopic
rods, a, evenly arranged and packed side by side, like the seeds on the disk of a sunflower.
Among them, at regular intervals, are interspersed the cones, b. Delicate nerve fibers pass
from the ends of the rods and cones, each expanding into a granular body, c, thence weaving
a mesh, d, and again expanding into the granules, f. Last is a layer of fine nerve fibers,
g, and gray, ganglionic cells, h, like the gray matter of the brain, whence filaments extend
into i, the fibers of the optic nerve. (See p. 354.)

The layer of rods and cones is to the eye what the bristles, otoliths, and Cortian fibers are
to the ear. Indeed, the nerve itself is insensible to light. At the point where it enters the
eye, there are no rods and cones, and this is called the blind spot. A simple experiment will
illustrate the fact. Hold this book directly before the face, and, closing the left eye, look
steadily with the right at the left-hand circle in Fig. 64. Move the book back and forth, and
a point will be found where the right-hand circle vanishes from sight. At that moment its light
falls upon the spot where the rods and cones are lacking.

FIG. 64.

HOW WE SEE.--There is believed to be a kind of universal atmosphere, termed ether, filling
all space. This substance is infinitely more subtle than the air, and occupies its pores, as
well as those of all other substances. As sound is caused by waves in the atmosphere, so light
is produced by waves in the ether. A lamplight, for example, sets in motion waves of ether,
which pass in through the pupil of the eye, to the retina, where the rods and cones transmit
the vibration through the optic nerve to the brain, and then the mind perceives the light.
(Note, p. 236.)

THE USE OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. [Footnote: The uses of the eye and ear are dependent upon
the principles of Optics and Acoustics. They are therefore best treated in Physics.]--A convex
lens, as a common burning glass, bends the rays of light which pass through it, so that they
meet at a point called the focus. The crystalline lens converges the rays of light which enter
the eye, and brings them to a focus on the retina. [Footnote: The cornea and the humors of
the eye act in the same manner as the crystalline lens, but not so powerfully.] The healthy
lens has a power of changing its convexity so as to adapt [Footnote: The simplest way of experimenting
on the "adjustment of the eye" is to stick two stout needles upright into a straight piece
of wood,--not exactly, but nearly in the same straight line, so that, on applying the eye to
one end of the piece of wood, one needle (A) shall be seen about six inches off, and the other
(B) just on one side of it, at twelve inches distance. If the observer looks at the needle
B he will find that he sees it very distinctly, and without the least sense of effort; but
the image of A is blurred, and more or less double. Now, let him try to make this blurred image
of the needle A distinct. He will find he can do so readily enough, but that the act is accompanied
by a sense of fatigue. And in proportion as A becomes distinct, B will become blurred. Nor
will any effort enable him to see A and B distinctly at the same time.--HUXLEY.] itself to
near and to distant objects. (See Fig. 66.)

FIG. 65.

NEAR AND FAR SIGHT.--If the lens be too convex, it will bring the rays to a focus before they
reach the retina; if too flat, they will reach the retina before coming to a focus. In either
case, the sight will be indistinct. A more common defect, however, is in the shape of the globe
of the eye, which is either flattened or elongated. In the former case (see G, Fig. 67), objects
at a distance can be seen most distinctly-- hence that is called farsightedness. [Footnote:
This should not be confounded with the long sight of old people, which is caused by the stiffness
of the ciliary muscles, whereby the lens can not adapt itself to the varying distances of objects.]
In the latter, objects near by are clearer, and hence this is termed nearsightedness. Farsightedness
is remedied by convex glasses; nearsightedness, by concave. When glasses will improve the sight
they should be worn; [Footnote: Dr. Henry W. Williams, the celebrated ophthalmologist, says
that, in some cases, glasses are more necessary at six or eight years of age than to the majority
of healthy eyes at sixty. Sometimes children find accidentally that they can see better through
grandmother's spectacles. They should then be supplied with their own.] any delay will be liable
to injure the eyes, by straining their already impaired power. Cataract is a disease in which
there is an opacity of the crystalline lens or its capsules, which obscures the vision. The
lens may be caused to be absorbed, or may be removed by a skillful surgeon and the defect remedied
by wearing convex glasses.

FIG. 66.

FIG. 67.

COLOR-BLIND PERSONS receive only two of the three elementary color sensations (green, red,
violet). The spectrum appears to them to consist of two decidedly different colors, with a
band of neutral tint between. The extreme red end is invisible, and a bright scarlet and a
deep green appear alike. They are unable to distinguish between the leaves of a cherry tree
and its fruit by the color of the two, and see no difference between blue and yellow cloth.
Whittier, the poet, it is said, could not tell red from green unless in direct sunlight. Once
he patched some damaged wall paper in his library by matching a green vine in the pattern with
one of a bright autumnal crimson. This defect in the eye is often unnoticed, and many railway
accidents have doubtless happened through an inability to detect the color of signal lights.

CARE OF THE EYES.--The shape of the eye can not be changed by rubbing and pressing it, as many
suppose, but the sight may thus be fatally injured. Children troubled by nearsightedness should
not lean forward at their work, as thereby the vessels of the eye become overcharged with blood.
They should avoid fine print, and try, in every possible way, to spare their eyes. If middle
age be reached without especial difficulty of sight, the person is comparatively safe. Most
cases of squinting are caused by longsightedness, the muscles being strained in the effort
to obtain distinct vision. In childhood, it may be cured by a competent surgeon, who will generally
cut the muscle that draws the eye out of place.

After any severe illness, especially after measles, scarlatina, or typhoid fever, the eyes
should be used with extreme caution, since they share in the general debility of the body,
and recover their strength slowly. Healthy eyes even should never be used to read fine print
or by a dim light. Serious injury may be caused by an imprudence of this kind. Reading upon
the cars is also a fruitful source of harm. The lens, striving to adapt itself to the incessantly
varying distance of the page, soon becomes wearied. Whenever the eyes begin to ache, it is
a warning that they are being overtaxed and need rest.

Objects that get into the eye should be removed before they cause inflammation; rubbing in
the meantime only irritates and increases the sensitiveness. If the eye be shut for a few moments,
so as to let the tears accumulate, and the upper lid be then lifted by taking hold of it at
the center, the cinder or dust is often washed away at once. Trifling objects can be removed
by simply drawing the upper lid as far as possible over the lower one; when the lid flies back
to its place, the friction will detach any light substance. If it becomes necessary, turn the
upper lid over a pencil, and the intruder may then be wiped off with a handkerchief. "Eye-stones"
are a popular delusion. When they seem to take out a cinder, it is only because they raise
the eyelid, and allow the tears to wash it out. No one should ever use an eyewash, except by
medical advice. The eye is too delicate an organ to be trifled with, and when any disease is
suspected, a reliable physician should be consulted. This is especially necessary, since, when
one eye is injured, the other, by sympathy, is liable to become inflamed, and perhaps be destroyed.

When reading or working, the light should be at the left side, or at the rear; never in front.

