To no such flagitious lengths as these can it be shown that Alexander carried the "sale" of
the indulgences he dispensed. He had no lack of precedent for the practice, and, so far as
the actual practice itself is concerned, it would be difficult to show that it was unjustifiable
or simoniacal so long as confined within certain well-defined bounds, and so long as the sums
levied by it were properly employed to the benefit of Christianity. It is a practice comparable
to the mulcting of a civil offender against magisterial laws. Because our magistrates levy
fines, it does not occur to modern critics to say that they sell pardons and immunity from
gaol. It is universally recognized as a wise and commendable measure, serving the two­fold
purpose of punishing the offender and benefiting the temporal State against which he has offended.
Need it be less commendable in the case of spiritual offences against a spiritual State? It
is more useful than the imposition of the pattering of a dozen prayers at bedtime, and since,
no doubt, it falls more heavily upon the offender, it possibly makes to an even greater extent
for his spiritual improvement.

Thus considered, this "sale" of indulgences loses a deal of the heinousness with which it has
been invested. The funds so realized go into the coffers of the Church, which is fit and proper.
What afterwards becomes of them at the hands of Alexander opens up another matter altogether,
one in which we cannot close our eyes to the fact that he was as undutiful as many another
who wore the Ring of the Fisherman before him. Yet this is to be said for him: that, if he
plunged his hands freely into the treasury of the Holy See, at least he had the ability to
contrive that this treasury should be well supplied; and the circumstance that, when he died,
he left the church far wealthier and more powerful than she had been for centuries, with her
dominions which his precursors had wantonly alienated reconsolidated into that powerful State
that was to endure for three hundred years, is an argument to the credit of his pontificate
not lightly to be set aside.

Imola and Forli had, themselves, applied to the Pontiff to appoint Cesare Borgia their ruler
in the place of the deposed Riarii. To these was now added Cesena. In July disturbances occurred
there between Guelphs and Ghibellines. Swords were drawn and blood flowed in the streets, until
the governor was constrained to summon Ercole Bentivogli and his horse from Forli to quell
the rioting. The direct outcome of this was that--the Ghibellines predominating in council--Cesena
sent an embassy to Rome to beg his Holiness to give the lordship of the fief to the Duke of
Valentinois. To this the Pope acceded, and on August 2 Cesare was duly appointed Lord Vicar
of Cesena. He celebrated his investiture by remitting a portion of the taxes, abolishing altogether
the duty on flour, and by bringing about a peace between the two prevailing factions.

By the end of September Cesare's preparations for the resumption of the campaign were completed,
and early in October (his army fortified in spirit by the Pope's blessing) he set out, and
made his first halt at Nepi. Lucrezia was there, with her Court and her child Roderigo, having
withdrawn to this her castle to mourn her dead husband Alfonso; and there she abode until recalled
to Rome by her father some two months later.

Thence Cesare pushed on, as swiftly as the foul weather would allow him, by way of Viterbo,
Assisi, and Nocera to cross the Apennines at Gualdo. Here he paused to demand the release of
certain prisoners in the hill fortress of Fossate, and to be answered by a refusal. Angered
by this resistance of his wishes and determined to discourage others from following the example
of Fossate, he was swift and terrible in his rejoinder. He seized the Citadel, and did by force
what had been refused to his request. Setting at liberty the prisoners in durance there, he
gave the territory over to devastation by fire and pillage.

That done he resumed his march, but the weather retarded him more and more. The heavy and continuous
rains had reduced the roads to such a condition that his artillery fell behind, and he was
compelled to call a halt once more, at Deruta, and wait there four days for his guns to overtake
him.

In Rimini the great House of Malatesta was represented by Pandolfo--Roberto Malatesta's bastard
and successor--a degenerate so detested by his subjects that he was known by the name of Pandolfaccio
(a contumelious augmentative, expressing the evil repute in which he was held).

Among his many malpractices and the many abuses to which he resorted for the purposes of extorting
money from his long-suffering subjects was that of compelling the richer men of Rimini to purchase
from him the estates which he confiscated from the fuorusciti--those who had sought in exile
safety from the anger provoked by their just resentment of his oppressive misrule. He was in
the same case as other Romagna tyrants, and now that Venice had lifted from him her protecting
aegis, he had no illusions as to the fate in store for him. So when once more the tramp of
Cesare Borgia's advancing legions rang through the Romagna, Pandolfaccio disposed himself,
not for battle, but for surrender on the best terms that he might succeed in making.

He was married to Violante, the daughter of Giovanni Bentivogli of Bologna, and in the first
week of October he sent her, with their children, to seek shelter at her father's Court. Himself,
he withdrew into his citadel--the famous fortress of his terrible grandfather Sigismondo. The
move suggested almost that he was preparing to resist the Duke of Valentinois, and it may have
prompted the message sent him by the Council to inquire what might be his intention.

Honour was a thing unknown to this Pandolfaccio--even so much honour as may be required for
a dignified retreat. Since all was lost it but remained--by his lights--to make the best bargain
that he could and get the highest possible price in gold for what he was abandoning. So he
replied that the Council must do whatever it considered to its best advantage, whilst to anticipate
its members in any offer of surrender, and thus seek the favour and deserve good terms at the
hands of this man who came to hurl him from the throne of his family, he dispatched a confidential
servant to Cesare to offer him town and citadel.

In the meantime--as Pandolfo fully expected--the Council also sent proposals of surrender to
Cesare, as well as to his lieutenant-general of Romagna, Bishop Olivieri, at Cesena. The communications
had the effect of bringing Olivieri immediately to Rimini, and there, on October 10, the articles
of capitulation were signed by the bishop, as the duke's representative, and by Pandolfo Malatesta.
It was agreed in these that Malatesta should have safe-conduct for himself and his familiars,
3,000 ducats and the value--to be estimated--of the artillery which he left in the citadel.
Further, for the price of 5,500 ducats he abandoned also the strongholds of Sarsina and Medola
and the castles of the Montagna.

His tyranny thus disposed of, Pandolfaccio took ship to Ravenna, where the price of his dishonour
was to be paid him, and in security for which he took with him Gianbattista Baldassare, the
son of the ducal commissioner.

On the day of his departure, to celebrate the bloodless conquest of Rimini, solemn High Mass
was sung in the Cathedral, and Bishop Olivieri received the city's oath of allegiance to the
Holy See, whither very shortly afterwards Rimini sent her ambassadors to express to the Pope
her gratitude for her release from the thraldom of Pandolfaccio.

