Persons who habitually employ the stylo very frequently develop an unconscious habit of twisting
the pen at certain points so as to form a deep, rounded dot. This occurs principally at the
ends of words and strokes. A magnifying-glass reveals this peculiarity at once, and, when discovered,
notice should be taken of the circumstances under which this twisting is usually done. It will
be found, most probably, that the trick is uniform; that is, certain letters or strokes are
mostly finished with the dot.

There is a well-known public character who for years has employed no other writing instrument
but the stylo. His writing possesses one peculiarity which is so habitual that in four hundred
examples examined it was absent in only five. He forms this twist dot at the end of the last
letter at the end of every line. The inference and explanation is that, in raising the pen
to travel back to the next line, he twists it with a backward motion in harmony with the back
movement. Another trick is to make the same dot in words on which he appears to have halted
or hesitated before writing the next. In every such case there is an extra wide space between
the word ended by a dot and that which follows. It would appear as if the writer mechanically
made the dot while pausing to choose the next word. This is a striking example of the unconscious
hand-gesture.

Something akin to it occurs in the handwriting of a famous lawyer. Here and there in his letters
will be noticed a faint, sloping, vertical stroke, like a figure 1. Those who have seen him
write explain it thus. While hesitating in the choice of a word he moves his pen up and down
over the paper, and unintentionally touches it. It is such slips as these which often supply
the expert with valuable clues to identity. When they occur they should be carefully examined,
for in the majority of cases a reason will be found for their presence.

CHAPTER XIII.

ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND DISGUISED HANDS.

That mischievous and cowardly form of secret attack, the anonymous letter, demands, unfortunately,
a large amount of attention from the handwriting expert. One of the most pleasant rewards that
can attend the conscientious and painstaking student of handwriting lies in the knowledge that
his art may sometimes enable him to bring to deserved punishment the assassin of reputation
and domestic happiness.

It is a moot point, which has been discussed by legal authorities, as to whether the handwriting
expert is justified in tendering evidence and opinions of a kind that may be said to belong
by right to the criminal investigator. By this is meant that the expert should not be allowed
to point out to a jury such pieces of circumstantial evidence as the similarity of the paper
used by the suspected person with other found in his possession; that he ought not to direct
attention to postmarks, coincidence of dates, similarity of ink used, the employment of certain
words and phrases, and other external and indirect clues that point to the authorship. It is
urged that the whole duty of the expert is to say whether in his opinion two or more writings
are by the same hand or not, and any expression of opinion outside this question is ultra vires.

The obvious answer to this objection is that it is impossible to limit the expert in the selection
of those points which appeal to and assist him in forming an opinion. It is impossible to say
what may or may not suggest a valuable clue to a keen observer; and as the expert is often
called upon to give reasons for his opinion he is quite justified in indicating the steps by
which he arrived at it.

These circumstances arise more often in connection with anonymous letters than with ordinary
signature forgeries, for the field of exploration and the material examined are so much larger.
Details become invaluable. The quality and make of the paper used, or a peculiar method of
folding and placing it in the envelope may afford a clue that will put the expert on the high
road to an important discovery. It is impossible to say how or where a clue may lurk. The torn
edge of a postage stamp once supplied a hint that was followed up successfully. A smudge on
the envelope, that matched a similar one on a packet of envelopes in the writing case of a
person quite unsuspected, led to conviction, as did a number of an address that was crossed
out and rewritten, the anonymous writer having, by force of habit, begun with the number he
was in the habit of writing--his own.

In short, the expert has, nolens volens, to assume many of the functions of the crime investigator
in dealing with apparent trifles, and even if they do not always help him in reaching his goal,
they provide material for exercising the useful art of observation. Strictly speaking the expert
should, perhaps, ignore all outside suggestions as to the authorship, and confine himself to
saying whether or not the specimens submitted are in the same handwriting; but in practice
this will be found extremely difficult, if not impossible, for the student cannot shut his
eyes to the accidental clues that invariably arise in the examination of the evidence, and
almost before he realizes it, the most cautious expert finds himself trespassing upon ground
that by right should be the preserve of the detective.

The points raised here may, however, be safely left to be dealt with by the judgment of the
student as they arise. In the early stages of study they will probably not present themselves
with the same force and frequency as later on, when they will be appreciated as providing useful
private pointers for guidance; and though at times they may put the inexperienced student upon
a false scent, he will have no difficulty in detecting his error if, when in doubt, he follows
the principles laid down for the comparison of handwriting.

The first step to the examination of the anonymous letter consists in procuring as many suspects
as possible, which, as before advised, should be lettered or numbered and put aside, until
the original, which in this case is the anonymous letter, has been studied and mastered. The
external evidence of which so much has already been said may or may not be looked for.

Next proceed with the examination and comparison of the writings. It is presumed that the student
has prepared his notes of the peculiarities of the original; he has now to search for them
in the suspects. Suppose he begins with the spurs and beards, having found them well marked
in the original. He will take any one of the suspects and examine it for a repetition of the
same signs. He may follow on with the rest of the suspects, taking advantage of his memory
being fresh on this point, or he may prefer to exhaust one suspect of all its evidences before
proceeding with another; but practice and experience will decide the best course in this matter,
and influence the line of procedure.

Whatever method is pursued, all have the same object--the discovery of the peculiarities of
the original in one or more of the suspects, and the student will be wise if he follow accurately
the course laid down in the chapter on "How to Examine a Writing."

It is generally safe to take it for granted that the writing in an anonymous letter is disguised.
There are occasions when the author persuades another person to write for him, but only rarely;
for the perpetrator of a contemptible act is not usually brazen and indiscreet enough to expose
himself to others. The same reasons lend strength to the presumption that the writing will,
so far as its general appearance goes, be as much the opposite of the author's usual style
as his ingenuity can make it. The extreme back hand occurs very frequently. It seems to be
the first impulse of the anonymous writer to avoid the right slope. Even when the normal hand
is a vertical, with a tendency to back hand, the extreme left slope is often chosen. Fortunately,
the assumed back hand is one of the most transparent of disguises. If the student has practised
it, he will not need to be reminded how difficult it is for a writer to conceal his mannerisms.
By altering the slope he has only stretched and lengthened his outlines, and the expert soon
learns to recognise them in their new form.

Another common disguise is the illiterate hand. This is quite as easy of detection. It is no
easier for the practised and fluent writer to reproduce the shaky, irregular outlines of the
illiterate, than it is for the speaker of pure and cultured English to imitate the coarse accent
of the vulgar. However good the copy it always breaks down early, and the sudden and unconscious
firm, clear and geometrically accurate stroke reveals the practised writer beneath the mask.
Sometimes an accurately placed punctuation mark supplies the necessary clue, for when once
the art of proper punctuation has been acquired it becomes almost automatic. Even experienced
novelists are caught this way occasionally. They will introduce a letter, supposed to be the
work of an illiterate character. The grammar and orthography suggest the idea, but the more
difficult details of punctuation will be attended to, even to the apostrophe that marks the
elided g in such words as "talkin'," "comin'," &c.

Very difficult and troublesome is the letter written throughout in imitation printed characters.
The expert has to rely upon the curved lines, accidental punctuation marks and unpremeditated
flourishes and hand-gestures; but, broadly speaking, such a letter is beyond the skill of the
expert if unaided by accidental betrayal. If, as sometimes happens, the writer is ingenious
enough to adopt an alphabet formed completely of straight lines and angles--an easy task--he
may boast of having produced a detection-proof writing; that is, if characters formed with
the aid of a rule can be called writing, for it defies detection, because there are none of
the signs essential for comparison, and is less easy of identification than an incomplete skeleton.
In the absence of external clues, an expert would refuse to do more than offer a very guarded
opinion, and it would be wiser to decline to offer any comment whatever.

Another trick that has been resorted to by some persons is writing with the hand constricted
by a tight-fitting glove. This produces a very effective disguise; but if the student will
practise with the same impediment, he will discover many useful rules for guiding him on the
road to penetrating this entanglement.

It should be remembered that the less control a writer has over his pen, the more likely is
he unintentionally to revert to those forms to which he is habituated, for, left by itself,
the hand steers the more familiar course. Disguise, alteration and variation on customary forms
are the result of premeditation. When the mind is occupied more with the subject than the formation
of characters, the latter naturally assume that shape to which the force of custom has bent them.

CHAPTER XIV.

FORGED LITERARY AUTOGRAPHS.

The collection of autographs, letters, and documents of literary and historical interest has
for many years been a prominent feature in the collecting world, but at no time was the quest
more keen or conducted on more systematic lines than to-day. The records of the leading sale
rooms often supply matter for surprise, the prices asked and obtained for rare and choice specimens
being such as to excite both wonder and amazement, sometimes tempered with scepticism.

It is, therefore, not surprising that this profitable and growing market should have attracted
the fraudulent, for the prizes when won are generally of a substantial character, and amply
repay the misapplied effort and ingenuity demanded.

The success which has attended too many of these frauds may be largely accounted for by the
fact that in many cases the enthusiasm of the collector has outrun his caution.

Many a man famous for his astuteness in the pursuit of his ordinary business has allowed himself
to fall an easy victim to the forger, thus exemplifying the familiar adage that we are easily
persuaded to believe what we want to believe.

The recorded stories of some of the frauds perpetrated upon ardent and presumably judicious
collectors read like the tales told so often of the triumph of the confidence trickster, and
one marvels how a person of ordinary power of observation, to say nothing of experience, could
fall a victim to a fraud requiring little perception to detect. The explanation doubtless lies
in the direction indicated--the ardour of the pursuit, the pride and joy of possessing something
that is absolutely unique.

The leading case--to use an expressive legal term--is that known as the Vrain-Lucas fraud,
the principal victim of which was Mons. Chasles, probably the greatest of modern French geometricians,
and one of the few foreign savants entitled to append the distinguishing mark of a F.R.S. of
England.

Lucas was a half-educated frequenter, and nominal reading student of the great Parisian library,
and for some years had dealt in autographs in a small way, the specimens he offered being undoubtedly
genuine. Inspired by the collecting ardour and the apparent blind faith placed in him by M.
Chasles, Lucas embarked upon a series of deceptions so impudent, that it is easy to sympathise
with the defence put forward by his advocate at the trial, namely, that the fraud was so transparent
that it could only be regarded as a freak.

In the period between the years 1861 and 1869, Lucas sold to his dupe the enormous number of
27,000 documents, every one a glaring fraud. They comprised letters purporting to have been
written by such improbable authors as Abelard, Alcibiades, Alexander the Great to Aristotle,
Cicero, Cleopatra, Joan of Arc, Sappho, Anacreon, Pliny, Plutarch, St. Jerome, Diocletian,
Juvenal, Socrates, Pompey, and--most stupendous joke of all--Lazarus after his resurrection.

It is hard to believe, and but for the irrefutable records of the Court, few would credit the
fact that every one of these letters was in the French language! And the dupe a highly educated
mathematician of European repute.

In the face of such incredible gullibility one is disposed to regard the sentence of two years'
imprisonment and a fine of 500 francs as extravagantly severe, even despite the fact that Lucas
received in all over 140,000 francs from M. Chasles.

The Chatterton and Ireland forgeries are familiar to all educated persons. These, however,
hardly come under the head of the class of fraud with which the ordinary forger is associated.
In each of these cases the motive of the deception was not so much to make money as a literary
reputation. In both cases presumably competent judges were deceived. But the standard by which
they gauged the genuineness of the productions was not caligraphic, but literary. In neither
instance was there occasion or opportunity for the handwriting expert to exercise his skill,
for the sufficient reason that there existed no material with which the writings could be compared.
What the literary expert had to do was to examine and compare the style of the compositions--a
test in which the idiosyncrasies and predilections of the judge played a leading part.

Probably the greatest, and for a short time the most successful autograph fraud perpetrated
in Great Britain was that known as the case of the Rillbank MSS., the detection and exposure
of which were mainly attributable to one of the authors of this work (Capt. W. W. Caddell).

Just before, and up till 1891, there was in Edinburgh a young man named Alexander Howland Smith,
who claimed to be the son of a reputable Scottish law official, and a descendant of Sir Walter
Scott.

On the strength of his presumed connection with the great novelist, he had no difficulty in
disposing of, to an Edinburgh bookseller, for prices whose smallness alone should have excited
suspicion, letters purporting to be in the handwriting of Sir Walter Scott. Emboldened by success,
he embarked upon a wholesale manufacture of spurious letters bearing the signatures of Burns,
Edmund Burke, Sir Walter Scott, Grattan and Thackeray. His principal victim was an Edinburgh
chemist, Mr. James Mackenzie, who, when the fraud was not only suspected, but proved, distinguished
himself by a stubborn and courageous defence of the genuineness of the documents.

Smith's modus operandi consisted in purchasing large-sized volumes of the period of the subjects
of his forgeries, and using the blank leaves for the purpose of fabricating the letters. In
May, 1891, a number of alleged Burns' letters were put up for sale by public auction at Edinburgh,
fetching the surprising paltry price of from twenty to thirty shillings apiece.

It was a feature of all Smith's productions that the letters were extremely brief--a feature
common to literary forgeries. The circumstance which first gave rise to suspicion was that
the letters attributed to Scott, Burke, Burns, General Abercrombie, Grattan and Thackeray all
began and ended with the same words. Those signed by Sir Walter Scott all began "I have your
letter," and ended "I remain," a form of phraseology the reputed writer never used, but which,
according to Smith, was common to all the distinguished men whose handwriting he had counterfeited
with considerable success.

On the strength of the partial guarantee provided by the sale of some of these documents at
a reputable auction room, Captain Caddell purchased a parcel of alleged Scott letters without
prior inspection. A brief examination disclosed their fraudulent nature, and Smith was arrested.
The Edinburgh police took the matter up, and the impostor was convicted in June, 1893, and
sentenced to eighteen months' imprisonment.

Thackeray and Dickens are favourite subjects with most literary forgers, Washington and Benjamin
Franklin running them very close for favouriteship. American collectors are particularly keen
on procuring specimens of the last two-named, and there is grave reason to believe that many
fall easy victims.

Fortunately the facilities for comparing and testing the genuineness of the autographs of every
distinguished person whose holographs are most in favour with the forger, are numerous. In
addition to the splendid collection of specimens extant at the British Museum Library, there
are many facsimiles available.

The excellent work on Autograph Collecting by Dr. Henry T. Scott (Upcott Gill, London) is indispensable
to the collector. It contains some hundreds of specimens, specially selected for the purposes
of comparison, and gives besides many very valuable rules and hints for detecting the real
from the sham.

Dr. Scott, writing of the autographic letters of his distinguished namesake, says:

"Of Sir Walter Scott's autographs it may be observed (1) the paper is generally letter size,
gilt edged, with a soft, firm feeling to the touch, and an unglazed surface. (2) The date and
residence are placed on the top and right hand, with a good space before the 'My Dear Sir,'
uniform margins on the left side of the paper of a quarter of an inch, but on the right side
no margin at all, the writing being carried close to the edge. The folding is done with the
precision of a man of business, forming the space for the address into a nice oblong almost
in the centre of the sheet, and the first line of the address is written nearly in the centre
of the space with the remainder below.

"The watermarks found on the paper are one of the following: Valleyfield, 1809; C. Wilmott,
1815; J. Dickinson and Co., 1813; J. Dickinson, 1816; J. Dickinson (without date); J. Whatman,
1814; J. Whatman (without date); Turkey Mill, 1819; Turkey Mill (without date); G. C. & Co., 1828."

The paper used by Burns for his correspondence was always large in size, rough in surface,
never glossy, and all four edges had the rough edge that is the peculiarity of a Bank of England
note.

It is worthy of remark that in the case of the A. H. Smith Burns forgeries, suspicion was first
excited by a simple but significant matter. The paper contained several worm holes. These had
been carefully avoided by the writer, he knowing that if his pen touched them the result would
be a spluttering and spreading of the ink.

Now it is safe to assume that these worm holes, being the effect of age, did not exist at the
time the letter--if genuine--was written; as the worm did its work long afterwards, it must
be regarded as a fortunate circumstance that in perforating the paper it refrained from destroying
the writing, carefully selecting the wider spaces that the poet had, with commendable foresight,
left for the insect's depredations.

The letters of Thackeray are in two styles of handwriting, the earlier sloping slightly, the
latter vertical, round, neat and print-like, the capital I being invariably a simple vertical
stroke. His is the most neat and uniformly readable hand of all the great literary characters.
It is somewhat unfortunate that he was not anything like so uniform in his choice of paper.
Letters are in existence on an extraordinary variety of material, from a quarto sheet to a
scrap torn from half a sheet of note paper. On many of these letters is neither address nor
date, but when once the characteristics of the charming handscript have been mastered, they
are never forgotten, and are recognisable amid the closest imitations.

There are extant a number of forged Thackeray's. Their distinguishing features are that they
are invariably very short, as if the forger feared to provide sufficient matter to supply material
for comparison; most are on single half sheets of note paper, many on quarto sheets of varying
texture and quality, and the characteristic vertical I, Thackeray's trade mark, always occurs.
It is shaky and often out of the perpendicular, as the genuine rarely is. In the forgeries
we have seen and suspect to be the work of A. H. Smith, a very significant sign is a sudden
thickening of the downstrokes of tailed letters like y, f, g, producing a tiny diamond-shaped
excrescence in the middle of the letter. The glass reveals that ragged-edged stroke which is
inseparable from the writing of the nervous copyist.

