The usual revels had taken place, and in most parts of the city were succeeded by the usual
pause. A particular degree of care had been taken by the nobility to prevent any renewal of
discord betwixt their followers and the citizens of the town, so that the revels had proceeded
with fewer casualties than usual, embracing only three deaths and certain fractured limbs,
which, occurring to individuals of little note, were not accounted worth inquiring into. The
carnival was closing quietly in general, but in some places the sport was still kept up.

One company of revellers, who had been particularly noticed and applauded, seemed unwilling
to conclude their frolic. The entry, as it was called, consisted of thirteen persons, habited
in the same manner, having doublets of chamois leather sitting close to their bodies, curiously
slashed and laced. They wore green caps with silver tassels, red ribands, and white shoes,
had bells hung at their knees and around their ankles, and naked swords in their hands. This
gallant party, having exhibited a sword dance before the King, with much clashing of weapons
and fantastic interchange of postures, went on gallantly to repeat their exhibition before
the door of Simon Glover, where, having made a fresh exhibition of their agility, they caused
wine to be served round to their own company and the bystanders, and with a loud shout drank
to the health of the Fair Maid of Perth. This summoned old Simon to the door of his habitation,
to acknowledge the courtesy of his countrymen, and in his turn to send the wine around in honour
of the Merry Morrice Dancers of Perth.

"We thank thee, father Simon," said a voice, which strove to drown in an artificial squeak
the pert, conceited tone of Oliver Proudfute. "But a sight of thy lovely daughter had been
more sweet to us young bloods than a whole vintage of Malvoisie."

"I thank thee, neighbours, for your goodwill," replied the glover. "My daughter is ill at ease,
and may not come forth into the cold night air; but if this gay gallant, whose voice methinks
I should know, will go into my poor house, she will charge him with thanks for the rest of you."

"Bring them to us at the hostelrie of the Griffin," cried the rest of the ballet to their favoured
companion; "for there will we ring in Lent, and have another rouse to the health of the lovely
Catharine."

"Have with you in half an hour," said Oliver, "and see who will quaff the largest flagon, or
sing the loudest glee. Nay, I will be merry in what remains of Fastern's Even, should Lent
find me with my mouth closed for ever."

"Farewell, then," cried his mates in the morrice--"fare well, slashing bonnet maker, till we
meet again."

The morrice dancers accordingly set out upon their further progress, dancing and carolling
as they went along to the sound of four musicians, who led the joyous band, while Simon Glover
drew their coryphaeus into his house, and placed him in a chair by his parlour fire.

"But where is your daughter?" said Oliver. "She is the bait for us brave blades."

"Why, truly, she keeps her apartment, neighbour Oliver; and, to speak plainly, she keeps her bed."

"Why, then will I upstairs to see her in her sorrow; you have marred my ramble, Gaffer Glover,
and you owe me amends--a roving blade like me; I will not lose both the lass and the glass.
Keeps her bed, does she?

     "My dog and I we have a trick
     To visit maids when they are sick;
     When they are sick and like to die,
     Oh, thither do come my dog and I.

     "And when I die, as needs must hap,
     Then bury me under the good ale tap;
     With folded arms there let me lie
     Cheek for jowl, my dog and I."

"Canst thou not be serious for a moment, neighbour Proudfute?" said the glover; "I want a word
of conversation with you."

