The subject of the address was Political Liberalism.  The speaker cleared away many misunderstandings.
Liberalism did not mean Catholic Liberalism; it had nothing to do with opinions on religion.
Nor did it mean Liberalism of the type still prevalent on the continent of Europe, revolutionary,
semi-socialist, openly anti-clerical; the type which had been given brief currency by the young
men of twenty who thirty years before had lent the Liberal party an undeserved reputation for
anti-clericalism.  No, the Liberals of Canada found their models and their inspiration in the
Liberalism of England, in the men who had fought the battles of orderly freedom and responsible
self-government against privilege and selfish interest.  As to the Church, no true Liberal
wished to deny its officers the right which every citizen enjoyed of taking a part in his country's
politics; they had opposed, and would continue to oppose, every attempt of politicians in clerical
garb to crush freedom of speech by spiritual terrorism.  The right of ecclesiastical interference
in politics ceased where it encroached upon {50} the elector's independence.  Any attempt to
found a Catholic party was not only a crime against the country but was bound to injure the
Church itself; it would lead inevitably to the formation of a Protestant party among the majority.
On individual freedom alone could a sound national political system be built up, just as on
colonial freedom alone had it been possible to build up a lasting imperial system.

The speech was received with enthusiasm throughout the country.  Its renunciation at once of
anti-clericalism and of ultramontanism, its moderation and its fearlessness, rallied Liberalism
to its true standard and marked out clearly the lines within which party and priest alike should
act in the interests of church and of country.  It was a master-stroke both for freedom and
for harmony.

We are to-day sometimes prone to overlook the services of those who in England or in Canada
fought for us the battles of political freedom. We tend to forget the services of the political
leaders of the thirties and forties who won freedom from class and racial domination, the services
of the leaders of the sixties and seventies who won freedom of thought and speech against heavy
odds.  It has taken a European war to make us realize {51} how precious are those liberties,
how many great peoples are still without them, and the height of our debt of gratitude alike
to those who won them for us in the past, and to those who preserve them for us in the present.

A few months after this historic address Wilfrid Laurier entered the Mackenzie Cabinet as minister
of Inland Revenue.  He had been thought eligible for ministerial rank ever since his first
entry into the House, and might have had a portfolio in 1876 had it not been that he objected
to serve along with Cauchon.  The appointment of Cauchon as lieutenant-governor of Manitoba
now having cleared the way, Mr Laurier accepted the office and appealed to his constituents
for re-election. The tide of opinion had latterly been running strong against the Government,
but the great personal popularity of the new minister was deemed an assurance of victory. 
The Conservatives, however, threw themselves strenuously into the fight, and, much to their
own surprise, won the seat by a majority of twenty-nine.  The result was due in part to the
over-confidence and inactivity of the Liberals, but on the whole it was the handwriting on
the wall--a token of the prevailing {52} sentiment against the Government which was shortly
to sweep all before it.  Another seat was speedily found for the new minister, in Quebec East,
and he entered upon a brief year's tenure of office.  Though under no illusion as to the failing
strength of the Government in the country, he loyally did his best both in the administration
of his department and in the campaigning for the party until the débâcle came in 1878.

{53}

CHAPTER IV

IN OPPOSITION, 1878-1887

The party leadership--Tariff and railway--Dominion and province--The second Riel rebellion

In the general election of September 1878 the Liberal party suffered not merely defeat but
utter and overwhelming rout, as unexpected and disastrous as a tropical earthquake.  Only five
years before, Mackenzie had been swept into power on a wave of moral indignation.  The Conservative
leaders had appeared hopelessly discredited, and the rank and file dispirited.  Now a wave
of economic despair swept the Liberals out of power.  Their majority of two to one in 1873
was reversed by a Conservative majority of over two to one in 1878.  The defeat was not local:
every province except New Brunswick went against Mackenzie. Edward Blake, Richard Cartwright,
Alfred G. Jones, and other stalwarts lost their seats, and though Sir John Macdonald suffered
the same fate in Kingston, and though seats were soon found for the fallen leaders, the blow
greatly damaged the prestige of the Liberal party.

{54}

Mackenzie was stunned.  To the last he had been confident of victory. In spite of the warnings
of Charlton, Cartwright, Laurier, and others, he had underestimated the impression which the
campaign for protection, with its lavish promises of work and prosperity for all, made even
in old Liberal strongholds.  He could not believe that the people of Canada would take up the
heresies and fallacies which the people of Great Britain had discarded a generation earlier.
He would not believe that they were prepared to send back to power men found guilty of corruption
only five years before.  For these illusions he paid the penalty, in bitter regrets, in loss
of touch with the party, in broken health, and at last, in April 1880, in resignation of the
leadership. Alexander Mackenzie had deserved well of Canada and of his party; but, apparently,
both wanted more than the dauntless courage and the unyielding and stainless honour which were
all he had to give them.

There was only one possible successor.  Edward Blake had for many years been the choice of
a large section of the party in Ontario, and he now became leader by unanimous vote.  The new
chief was a man of great intellectual capacity, of constructive {55} vision, of untiring thoroughness
and industry.  He stood easily at the head of the bar in Canada.  His short term of office
as prime minister of Ontario had given proof of political sagacity and administrative power.
He, if any one, it seemed, could retrieve the shattered fortunes of the Liberal party.

Mr Laurier's position as first lieutenant for Quebec was now unquestioned.  It was not a wholly
enviable post.  The Liberal representation from Quebec had fallen to twenty.  There were few
able men in the ranks.  The Dorions were gone.  Soon to go too were Holton and Huntington,
the English leaders who formed the connecting link between the Liberals of Ontario and the
French-speaking Liberals of Quebec.  In the Eastern Townships John Henry Pope, that shrewdest
and most pugnacious of Conservative politicians, was perfecting the organization which later
made him the uncrowned king of several counties.  True, Sir George Cartier, who for nearly
forty years had dominated Quebec politics, was gone, but Langevin, his successor in the Conservative
party, though not a strong man himself, had the clergy behind him; and Chapleau, who entered
federal politics in 1882, brought a fiery eloquence to his party's aid.  It was {56} clear
that the young Liberal leader would have no easy task in winning his province.

Yet he was not content with provincial aims.  Each year saw him more widely recognized as a
man not of Quebec merely but of all Canada.  The issues which arose in these trying years were
such as to test to the utmost men's power to rise above local and sectional prejudices and
see Canada's interest steadily and see it whole.  Mr Laurier did not speak often in these early
years, but when he did speak it was with increasing power and recognition.  And in the councils
of his party the soundness of his judgment became more fully appreciated as each of the great
issues of the eighties developed.

The chief of these issues were: the Tariff, the Pacific Railway, Provincial Rights, and the
troubles which arose out of the second Riel Rebellion.  These may now be summarily reviewed.

Victorious on the issue of protection, the Government more than lived up to its promises in
the first tariffs framed.  'Tell us how much protection you want,' Sir John Macdonald had promised
the manufacturers, 'and we shall give you what you need.'  And whether it {57} was cotton or
sugar or furniture, needs and wants were judged to lie not far apart.  Purely revenue duties
on goods that continued to come in freely, purely protective duties on goods which were practically
shut out, and duties which served both ends in some degree, all were advanced.

The Liberals, ex officio, that is, being out of office, opposed these increases one and all.
Neither Blake nor Laurier, however, was an out-and-out free-trader like Mackenzie.  Mackenzie
had received his point of view from his British upbringing; his colleagues had been brought
up on a continent where protection ruled.  Blake, after a session or two, seemed content to
accept the country's verdict and criticized chiefly the details of the N.P., as the National
Policy of Protection to Native Industries was affectionately called by its supporters.  Laurier,
while admitting that in theory it was possible to aid infant industries by tariff pap, criticized
the indiscriminate and excessive rates of the new tariff, and the unfair burden it imposed
upon the poorer citizens by its high specific rates on cheap goods. But in 1880, after a night
of seven years, prosperity dawned in America.  The revival of business in the United States
{58} proved as contagious in Canada as had been its slackening in the early seventies. The
Canadian people gave the credit for the improvement in health to the well-advertised patent
medicine they had taken just before the change set in; and for some years all criticisms of
the N.P. were fated to fall on deaf ears.

Then came the contract for the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and the tariff question
was shelved.  Both parties were committed to build the road to the coast.  Both had wavered
between public and private construction.  But the Macdonald Government had now decided upon
pushing the road through with all speed, regardless as to whether current revenues sufficed
to build it, while the Opposition advocated a policy of gradual construction within the country's
means, concurrent with a close and steady settlement of the western plains. The Government's
first plan of building the road out of the proceeds of the sale of a hundred million acres
of prairie lands proved a flat failure.  Then in 1880 a contract for its construction and operation
was made with the famous Canadian Pacific Syndicate, in which the leading figures were a group
of Canadians who {59} had just reaped a fortune out of the reconstruction of a bankrupt Minnesota
railway--George Stephen, Richard B. Angus, James J. Hill, and in the background, Donald A.
Smith.[1]

Under Blake's leadership instant and determined attack was made upon the bargain, in parliament,
in the press, and on the platform.  Blake himself moved against it a resolution of over a hundred
clauses, which, as usual, exhausted the subject and left little for his lieutenants to say.
Mr Laurier particularly criticized the large land-grant and the exemption from taxation.  Had
the policy of gradual construction been adopted, he contended, it would not have been necessary
to take a leap in the dark and give the syndicate the power of a monopoly in the western country:
'there might have been fewer millionaires in this country, but there would have been many more
happy and contented homes.'

The Government was, however, committed, and a party majority ratified the contract.  After
events justified both the policy of the Government and, to some extent, the criticism of the
Opposition.  Great national interests were at stake.  Nothing short of an {60} all-Canadian
railway could bind together the far-flung Dominion.  But the building of this railway, and
still more its operation, would be a task to daunt all but the most fearless, and to those
who undertook it generous terms were a necessity.  In their clear understanding and courageous
grasp of the facts, and in their persistent support of the company through all the dark days
until the railway was completed, Macdonald and Tupper and Pope deserved well of their country.
Yet it is equally clear now that in many points the criticism of the Opposition was well founded.
The land-grant was of least value when most needed--in the early years. The freedom of the
company to select land where they pleased gave them a mortgage on the West and power to deter
possible rival roads.  The exemption from taxation of the company's lands for twenty years
after the issue of the patents, and of its capital stock and equipment for ever, threw unfair
burdens upon the straggling settlers.  Still more threatening to national unity was the monopoly
clause, guaranteeing the company for twenty years against the chartering, either by the Dominion
or by any province afterwards established, of any road enabling United States railways to tap
western traffic.

{61}

The issue was decided, as to any immediate effects, by the success of the Conservatives in
the general elections of 1882.  The country wanted the road, and as usual was not disposed
to read too closely the fine print in the contract.  But the matter did not end there.  Each
party had been led by attack and counterattack to take a stronger stand of defence or opposition
than was reasonable.  For another ten years the Canadian Pacific Railway remained, if not an
issue in politics, itself an active participant in politics.  And its great weight thrown against
the Liberal party turned the scales more than once.

In every federal state the adjustment of the powers of the central and of the local authorities
gives occasion for much friction and difference of opinion.  In Canada this adjustment, though
never-ending, perhaps reached its climax in the eighties, when question after question as to
the rights of the provinces came up for discussion.

We are apt to forget how recent a development the modern federal state is.  Save for certain
Latin-American countries, nominally federal, the Dominion of Canada is the third oldest of
such states; the United States and {62} Switzerland alone are of longer standing.  The Austro-Hungarian
Empire and the North German Federation were formed in the same fateful year, 1867.  There were,
therefore, few models before the framers of the constitution of Canada, and the marvel is that
they planned so wisely and so enduringly.

In determining what powers should be assigned to the Dominion and what to the provinces, the
Fathers of Confederation were led, by the object-lesson which the Civil War in the United States
afforded, to give the central government more authority.  To the Dominion they assigned several
fields of legislation which in the Republic fell to the respective states; and the Dominion
was made residuary legatee of powers not specified.  The central government, too, was given
a right of veto over all provincial laws and empowered to appoint the lieutenant-governors
of the provinces.  Had Sir John Macdonald had his way, centralization would have gone much
further, for he would have abolished the provincial governments entirely and set up a single
parliament for the whole country.  Fortunately Cartier and Brown prevented that unwieldy experiment
from being tried.

Experience has shown that the central {63} government should have full authority to deal with
foreign affairs so far as they can be differentiated, and should have a wide measure of control
over commerce and industry, which more and more are nation-wide in scope.  But, this secured,
it has been found equally essential that the provinces should be given wide power and responsibility.
Fortunately Canada has only nine provinces, as against forty-eight states in the United States,
so that authority is less divided here than in the Republic.  In a country covering half a
continent, with great diversity of climate and resources and industrial development, centralization
of all power would mean the neglect of local needs and the disregard of local differences.
Particularly where, as in Canada, thirty per cent of the people differ in race and language
and creed from the majority, and are concentrated mainly in a single province, the need for
local autonomy as the surest means of harmony is abundantly clear.

It was in Quebec that the first issue as to provincial rights arose. The Mackenzie Government
in 1876 had appointed Luc Letellier de St Just, one of their most steadfast supporters, lieutenant-governor
of that province.  It was not long before political and {64} personal antagonism strained to
the breaking point the relations between the Liberal Letellier and his Conservative ministers
at Quebec.  The neglect of the premier, M. de Boucherville, to consult Letellier before introducing
some railway legislation proved the last straw, and in March 1878 Boucherville was dismissed
and Henri Joly de Lotbinière was called upon to form a Cabinet.  This sudden rupture raised
a storm of protest in Quebec, of which the echoes soon reached Ottawa.  Sir John Macdonald,
then leader of the Opposition, moved a vote of censure upon Letellier, which was defeated on
a party vote.  A year later, after the change of government at Ottawa, a Quebec ministerialist
again moved in the House of Commons the resolution of censure.

======================================================================

======================================================================

