Another portion of the same infusion of galls had solution of isinglass added to it until it
no longer produced a precipitate; by employing the sulphate of iron, a black compound was produced,
which, although paler than that formed from the entire fluid, appeared to be a perfect and
durable ink. Lastly, a portion of the infusion of galls was kept for some time at the boiling
temperature, by means of which a part of its contents became insoluble; this was removed by
filtration, when, by the addition of the sulphate of iron, a very perfect and durable ink was
produced. In the above three processes I conceive that a considerable part of the mucilage,
the tan, and the extract, were respectively removed from the infusion, while the greater part
of the gallic acid would be left in solution.

The three causes of deterioration in ink, the moulding, the precipitation of the black matter,
and the loss of colour, as they are distinct operations, so we may presume that they depend
on the operation of different proximate principles. It is probable that the moulding more particularly
depends on the mucilage; and the precipitation on the extract, from the property which extractive
matter possesses of forming insoluble compounds with metallic oxides. As to the operation of
the tan, from its affinity for metallic salts, we may conjecture, that, in the first instance,
it forms a triple compound with the gallic acid and the iron; and that, in consequence of the
decomposition of the tan, this compound is afterwards destroyed. Owing to the difficulty, if
not impossibility, of entirely depriving the infusion of galls of any one of its ingredients,
without, in some degree, affecting the others, I was not able to obtain any results which can
be regarded as decisive; but the general result of my experiments favours the above opinion,
and leads me to conclude, that, in proportion as ink consists merely of the gallate of iron,
it is less liable to decomposition, or to experience any kind of change.

The experiments to which I have alluded above, consisted in forming a standard infusion by
macerating the powder of galls in five times its weight in water, and comparing this with other
infusions, which had either been suffered to mould, from which the tan had been extracted by
gelatine, or which had been kept for some time at the boiling temperature; and by adding to
each of these respectively, both the recent solution of the sulphate of iron, and a solution
of it, which had been exposed for some time to the atmosphere. The nature of the black compound
produced was examined by putting portions of it into cylindrical jars, and observing the changes
which they experienced with respect either to the formation of mould, the deposition of their
contents, or any change of colour. The fluids were also compared by dropping portions of them
upon white tissue paper, in which way both their colour and their consistence might be minutely
ascertained. A third method was, to add together the respective infusions, and the solutions
of the sulphate of iron, in a very diluted state, by which I was enabled to form a more correct
comparison of the quantity, and of the state of the colouring matter, and of the degree of
its solubility.

The practical conclusions that I think myself warranted in drawing from these experiments,
are as follow:--In order to procure an ink which may be little disposed either to mould or
to deposit its contents, and which, at the same time, may possess a deep black colour, not
liable to fade, the galls should be macerated for some hours in hot water, and the fluid be
filtered; it should then be exposed for about fourteen days to a warm atmosphere, when any
mould which may have been produced must be removed. A solution of sulphate of iron is to be
employed, which has also been exposed for some time to the atmosphere, and which, consequently,
contains a certain quantity of the red oxide of iron diffused through it. I should recommend
the infusion of galls to be made of considerably greater strength than is generally directed;
and I believe that an ink, formed in this manner, will not necessarily require the addition
of any mucilaginous substance to render it of a proper consistence.

I have only further to add, that one of the best substances for diluting ink, if it be, in
the first instance, too thick for use, or afterwards become so by evaporation, is a strong
decoction of coffee, which appears in no respect to promote the decomposition of the ink, while
it improves its colour, and gives it an additional lustre.

    [2] Chairman of the Committee of Chemistry, in the Society for
        the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. This
        valuable article is extracted from the 47th Vol. of its
        Transactions.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIRY FAVOURS.--A VISION OF FAIRY LAND.

(For the Mirror.)

Once--whether in a dream, a waking vision, a poetical hallucination, or in sober reality, I
know not--once was I favoured with a distinct and glorious vision of the Faries' Land! I found
myself in a country more enchantingly beautiful than the warm, romantic dream of the poet has
ever yet conceived:--therein bloomed trees, and plants, and flowers, in beauty and luxuriance
never to fade; therein was the soft air strongly imbued with the ambrosial odour of the orient
rose; but ever as a gentle breeze enfolded me, it seemed on its refreshing wings to bear the
heavenly fragrance of unknown flowers. The sky was of an effulgent azure, altogether indescribable--but
under the influence of stealing twilight, insensibly was it darkening, though the yet undimmed
colours of sunset were inexpressibly varied and vivid. Radiant and exquisitely beautiful beings,
fair miniatures of mortals, inhabited this charming region, wherein was assembled all that
had power to inebriate the soul with pure and rapturous felicity, and imbue it with an intense
perception of its immortality and blessedness. Now stole the faint, delicious sound of very
distant bells--clear, silvery, and sweet--upon mine ear, as the tones of a well-touched harp:
sad were they--luxuriously sad; and their unearthly melody infused into my bosom a repose unknown
to mortality. As I listened with awe and rapture to that delicate minstrelsy, I seemed to become
all soul; tears--far indeed from tears of sorrow--suffused my wondering eyes, and my heart,
in the delirium of gratitude, raised itself in solemn thanksgivings to its Creator.

"Favoured mortal!" sighed near me a voice soft as a zephyr-breath. I turned, and beheld a constellation
of the radiant inhabitants of this ethereal country clustered about a portal, whose frame-work
was of shining stones, and whose firm, but slender bars, were of purest gold.--"Favoured mortal!"
(the speaker was beside me)--"favoured beyond even thine own conception, know that thou art
permitted to behold the Elfin Paradise--the true, the veritable Fairy Land. Pollute it not
by the tone of mortal speech; to us are thy thoughts not unknown, and partially are we permitted
to gratify thy desire for information. Thinkest thou--so indeed hath man taught thee--that
this sweet world is but a vain illusion? Know then, that we, the Elfin Band, are, in the order
of the universe, spirits inferior to the angels, but superior to thee. We are the creatures
and servants of the Most High! (be His glorious name by all His infinite creation reverenced
and adored!)--and we, in conjunction with the most exalted hierarchies of Heaven, are spirits,
ministrant to man! Amongst us, alas! are evil and wretched Fays, whose terrible study it is
to subvert our beneficent labours, to prevent our entrance into this ethereal region, and in
their own desolate and accursed country to insult the veritable Fairy Land by employing their
small remnant of celestial power in creating imitations of it, as paltry as absurd. Know also,
O mortal! that whilst with, and for, man, we abide upon earth, we have no land, no home;--like
himself, 'strangers and pilgrims' are we; nor is it until the period when our ministry is accomplished
(and of the finale of that period are none of us informed) that we are wafted on the gentle
breezes of heaven to this celestial planet, which, lighted by the same sun which blesseth your
own, is too small to be visible to the eyes of its inquisitive philosophers. Hark! this day
was a Fairy emancipated from earthly thraldom, and the bells of the Golden City are singing
for joy!"

The voice died away in the breeze; yet still I listened, in the hope of hearing again those
accents, as pure, distinct, and musical, as were the small, sweet harps which, seated on the
greensward at no great distance from me, a group of Fays were tuning, whilst sundry light and
rapid flourishes seemed to prelude an intended song. The bells of the City of the Fairies sunk
one by one into silence; the scented breeze flowed languidly as dropping into slumber; a hush
of nature pervaded the blessed region; and sad was my spirit to think that it could not dwell
in this Elfin Eden for ever! A stream of melody now broke the holy quietness of the land, which
resembled the aspirations of those who know neither sorrow nor sin. The breathing instruments
sighed, rather than distinctly uttered, tones, according well with those fine and delicate
voices which, as they stole in gentle words upon my entranced senses, were sweet and penetrating
as the aroma of unfading flowers:--

THE ELFIN EVENING SONG.

  Farewell! farewell! departing sun!
  Thy disk is dim, thy course is run;
  Long hast thou lit our land of flowers,--
  Now, night must veil our hallow'd bowers.

  Farewell bright sun! farewell sweet day!
  We mourn not that ye glide away,
  Since ev'ry fleeting hour doth bless
  Where days and dreams are numberless.

  Farewell bright sun! thou'lt wander forth
  From hence, to east, and south, and north,
  Till, weary of man's guilt and pain,
  Thoul't turn thee to our land again.

  Farewell sweet day! our songs shall hail
  Thine earliest dawn so pure, and pale,--
  For shadowy night ere long must, cease
  To veil the pleasant Land of Peace.

M.L.B.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAJOR ANDRE.

(Letter in "A Tour in North America," dated Hudson River.)

My dear B.--On my return to the Neptune all was in readiness to set sail. The wind sprang up,
and we were presently wafted into a broad sheet of water, "the Sea of Tappan." The river here
suddenly expands, and for the distance of ten miles will average about four miles in breadth;
in many places the water is so shallow, that the helmsman, his track being already marked out,
steers by the direction of posts, stationed here and there in the river, that he may keep his
vessel free from sand-banks. The shore on each side of us presented a level, agreeably interrupted
in places by the intervention of minor hills, apparently fertile, and in fine cultivation.
The villages of Tappan and Nyack, a few framed houses and huts scattered irregularly on the
western side, and about one mile from the river, claim the attention of the traveller. They
are situated near the foot of a valley, and overlooked by some stupendous and abrupt ridges,
whose frowning and murky heads throw a grand and solemn, but somewhat suitable, aspect upon
the landscape of this memorable place. Old Tappan, which consists of only two or three small
houses, and lies a short distance up this valley, was the place selected for the execution
of the once brave, noble-hearted, patriotic, and accomplished Major André. I was anxious to
make a pilgrimage to the grave of my unfortunate countryman; and, as the wind was scarcely
sufficient to bear us up against a strong ebb-tide, I easily prevailed on the captain to anchor
his charge, and allow the small boat to go on shore.

Major André, you may recollect, was taken prisoner by the Americans during the revolution as
a British spy. The house or hut in which he was kept in confinement had only very lately gone
into ruins. It was then a tavern, and its landlord, now extremely old, still resides close
by, and recites the melancholy tale with much affection and feeling. He witnessed the gentlemanly
manners and equanimity of this heroic soldier, while in his house, under the most trying circumstances,
and from its threshold to the fatal spot. In his room the prisoner could hear the sound of
the axe employed in erecting the scaffold; and on one occasion, in the presence of a friend,
when these sounds, terrible to all but himself, were more than usually distinct, he is said
to have observed, with great composure, "that every sound he heard from that axe was indeed
an important lesson, it taught him how to live and how to die." When conducted to the place
of execution, and on coming near to the scaffold, he made a sudden halt, and momentarily shrunk
at the sight; because he had, to the last, entertained hopes that his life would have been
taken by the musket, and not by the halter. This apparent want of resolution quickly passed
away, and the disappointment he felt told more against the uncompromising spirit of the times
than against himself. Rejecting assistance, he approached and ascended the platform with a
steady pace and lofty demeanour, and submitted to his fate with the pious resignation of a
great and good man. A large concourse of spectators, among whom were several well dressed females,
had assembled on this sorrowful occasion; and it is reported that scarcely a dry cheek could
be found throughout the whole multitude. André was then seen as he always had been, and moved
by that which had through life presided over all his actions, resolved beyond presumption,
and firm without ostentation.

The person and appearance of Major André were prepossessing; he was well proportioned, and
above the common size of men; the lines of his face were regular, well marked, and beautifully
symmetrical, which gave him an expression of countenance at once dignified and commanding.
His address was graceful and easy; in manners he was truly exemplary, and in conversation affable
and instructive. Polite to all ranks and classes of people, he was universally respected; fond
of discipline, and always alive to the just claims and feelings of others, he was beloved in
the army, and generally appealed to as the common arbitrator and conciliator of the contentions
of those around him. In a word, he was a sincere friend, a scholar, and accomplished gentleman,
a patriot, a gallant soldier, an able commander, and a Christian.

General Washington, when called upon to sign his death-warrant, which he did not do without
hesitation, it is said, dropped a tear upon the paper, and spoke at the same time to the following
effect:--"That were it not infringing upon the duty and responsibility of his office, and disregarding
the high prerogative of those who would fill that office after him, the tear, which now lay
upon that paper, should annihilate the confirmation of an act to which his name would for ever
stand as a sanction. He was summoned that day to do a deed at which his heart revolted; but
it was required of him by the justice of his country, the desires and expectations of the people:
he owed it to the cause in which he was solemnly engaged, to the welfare of an infant confederacy,
the safety of a newly organized constitution which he had pledged his honour to protect and
defend, and a right given to him that was acknowledged to be just by the ruling voice of all
nations."

André, after he had heard his condemnation, addressed a letter to Washington; it contained
a feeling appeal to him as a man, a soldier, and a general, on the mode of death he was to
die. It was his wish to be shot. This, however, could not be granted: he had been taken and
condemned as a spy, and the laws of nations had established the manner of his death. But where
were the humanity and feeling of the British on this occasion? Why did they not give up the
dastardly Arnold in exchange for the brave André; as it was generously proposed by the United
States?[3] This they refused on a paltry plea, and suffered, in consequence, the life of one
of their finest officers to be ignominiously lost.

On a green eminence, over which hangs the dark and funereal shade of the willow, is the grave
of this unfortunate soldier; it is a short distance south and west of the village. "No urn
nor animated bust," only a few rough and unshapely stones, without a word of inscription, and
carelessly laid upon a mound of rudely piled earth, are shown to the traveller as the spot
where rest the remains of poor André.[4]

Mag. Nat. Hist.

    [3] Arnold was a General in the American service, and had
        distinguished himself on former occasions like a brave soldier,
        an experienced commander, and a sincere citizen; but, like
        another Judas Iscariot, he afterwards thought fit to turn
        traitor. He deserted to the English as soon as the news reached
        him of the apprehension of André (because he knew then that his
        name and the plans arranged previously between him and the
        British General would be exposed and frustrated,) with the
        expectation of receiving a few pieces of silver for
        betraying his country. Whatever was his recompense in this way
        I know not, but I am certain he was despised as long as he lived,
        and his memory will for ever be pointed at as contemptible and
        degrading by the people of both nations.

    [4] The remains of Major André were lately, by a special request
        from the British government to the United States, brought to
        England, and placed among the worthies of Westminster Abbey.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LETTER-BELL.

By the late William Hazlitt.

