"It would have served them right to run them down, you know," said Shirley, "but you couldn't
do it, and there's no use talking about it. It would have been a cold-blooded piece of business
to run down a small boat with a heavy steamer, and I don't believe you would have been willing
to do it yourself when you got close on to them! But the Captain says if we get to Kingston
in good time, we may be able to get a cable message to London, and set the authorities at every
likely port on the lookout for the Vittorio."

The voyage of the Summer Shelter to Kingston was uneventful, but in many respects a very pleasant
one. There had been a great disappointment, there had been a great loss, and, to the spirits
of some of the party, there had been a great shock, but every one now seemed determined to
forget everything which had been unfortunate, and to remember only that they were all alive,
all safe, all together, and all on their way home.

The clergymen, relieved of their nautical duties, shone out brightly as good-humored and agreeable
companions. Their hardships and their dangers had made them so well acquainted with each other,
and with everybody else on board, and they had found it so easy to become acquainted with Captain
and Mrs. Horn, and they all felt so much relieved from the load of anxiety which had been lifted
from them, that they performed well their parts in making up one of the jolliest companies
which ever sailed over the South Atlantic.

At Kingston the Summer Shelter and the Monterey were both left,--the former to be completely
repaired and brought home by Mr. Portman, and the other to be coaled and sent back to Vera
Cruz, with her officers and her crew,--and our whole party, including Captain Hagar, sailed
in the next mail steamer for New York.

CHAPTER XXXIV

PLAINTON, MAINE

It was late in the summer, and Mrs. Cliff dwelt happy and serene in her native town of Plainton,
Maine. She had been there during the whole warm season, for Plainton was a place to which people
came to be cool and comfortable in summer-time, and if she left her home at all, it would not
be in the months of foliage and flowers. It might well be believed by any one who would look
out of one of the tall windows of her drawing-room that Mrs. Cliff did not need to leave home
for the mere sake of rural beauty. On the other side of the street, where once stretched a
block of poor little houses and shops, now lay a beautiful park, The Grove of the Incas.

The zeal of Mr. Burke and the money of Mrs. Cliff had had a powerful influence upon the minds
of the contractors and landscape-gardeners who had this great work in hand, and the park, which
really covered a very large space in the village, now appeared from certain points of view
to extend for miles, so artfully had been arranged its masses of obstructing foliage, and its
open vistas of uninterrupted view. The surface of the ground, which had been a little rolling,
had been made more unequal and diversified, and over all the little hills and dells, and upon
the wide, smooth stretches there was a covering of bright green turf. It had been a season
of genial rains, and there had been a special corps of workmen to attend to the grass of the
new park.

Great trees were scattered here and there, and many people wondered when they saw them, but
these trees, oaks and chestnuts, tall hickories and bright cheerful maples, had been growing
where they stood since they were little saplings. The people of Plainton had always been fond
of trees, and they had them in their side yards, and in their back yards, and at the front
of their houses; and when, within the limits of the new park, all these yards, and houses,
and sheds, and fences had been cleared away, there stood the trees. Hundreds of other trees,
evergreens and deciduous, many of them of good size, had been brought from the adjacent country
on great wheels, which had excited the amazement of the people in the town, and planted in
the park.

Through the middle of the grounds ran a wide and turbulent brook, whirling around its rocks
and spreading out into its deep and beautiful pools, and where once stood the widow Casey's
little house,--which was built on the side of a bank, so that the Caseys went into the second
story when they entered by the front,--now leaped a beautiful cataract over that very bank,
scattering its spray upon the trunks of the two big chestnuts, one of which used to stand by
the side of Mrs. Casey's house, and the other at the front.

In the shade of the four great oak trees which had stood in William Hamilton's back yard, and
which he intended to cut down as soon as he had money enough to build a long cow-stable,--for
it was his desire to go into the dairy business,--now spread a wide, transparent pool, half
surrounded at its upper end by marble terraces, on the edges of which stood tall statues with
their white reflections stretching far down into the depths beneath. Here were marble benches,
and steps down to the water, and sometimes the bright gleams of sunshine came flittering through
the leaves, and sometimes the leaves themselves came fluttering down and floated on the surface
of the pool. And when the young people had stood upon the terraces, or had sat together upon
the wide marble steps, they could walk away, if they chose, through masses of evergreen shrubbery,
whose quiet paths seemed to shut them out from the world.

On a little hill which had once led up to Parson's barn, but now ended quite abruptly in a
little precipice with a broad railing on its edge and a summer-house a little back, one could
sit and look out over the stretch of bright green lawns, between two clumps of hemlocks, and
over a hedge which concealed the ground beyond, along the whole length of the vista made by
Becker Street, which obligingly descended slightly from the edge of the park so that its houses
were concealed by the hemlocks, and then out upon the country beyond, and to the beautiful
hills against the sky; and such a one might well imagine, should he be a stranger, that all
he saw was in the Grove of the Incas. Upon all the outer edges of this park there were masses
of shrubbery, or little lines of hedge, irregularly disposed, with bits of grass opening upon
the street, and here and there a line of slender iron railing with a group of statuary back
of it, and so the people when they walked that way scarcely knew when they entered the park,
or when they left it.

The home of Mrs. Cliff, itself, had seemed to her to be casting off its newness and ripening
into the matured home. Much of this was due to work which had been done upon the garden and
surrounding grounds, but much more was due to the imperceptible influence of the Misses Thorpedyke.
These ladies had not only taken with them to the house so many of the time-honored objects
which they had saved from their old home, but they had brought to bear upon everything around
them the courtly tastes of the olden time.

Willy Croup had declared, as she stood in the hall gazing up at the staircase, that it often
seemed to her, since she came back, as if her grandfather had been in the habit of coming down
those stairs. "I never saw him," she said, "and I don't know what sort of stairs he used to
come down, but there's something about all this which makes me think of things far back and
grand, and I know from what I've heard of him that he would have liked to come down such stairs."

Mrs. Horn and her husband had made a long visit to Mrs. Cliff, and they had departed early
in the summer for a great property they had bought in the West, which included mountains, valleys,
a cañon, and such far extending groves of golden fruit that Edna already called the Captain
"The Prince of Orange."

Edna's brother, Ralph, had also been in Plainton. He had come there to see his sister and Captain
Horn, and that splendid old woman, Mrs. Cliff, but soon after he reached the town it might
well be supposed it was Mr. Burke whom he came to visit. This worthy mariner and builder still
lived in Plainton. His passion for an inland residence had again grown upon him, and he seemed
to have given up all thoughts of the sea. He and Ralph had royal times together, and if the
boy had not felt that he must go with Captain Horn and his sister to view the wonders of the
far West, he and Burke would have concocted some grand expedition intended for some sort of
an effect upon the civilization of the world.

But although Mrs. Cliff, for many reasons, had no present desire to leave her home, she did
not relinquish the enterprise for which the Summer Shelter had been designed. When Captain
Hagar had gone to London and had reported to his owners the details of his dire and disastrous
misfortune, he had been made the subject of censure and severe criticism; but while no reason
could be found why he should be legally punished for what had happened, he was made to understand
that there was no ship for him in the gift of the house he had so long served.

When Mrs. Cliff heard of this,--and she heard of it very soon, through Captain Horn,--she immediately
offered Captain Hagar the command of the Summer Shelter, assuring him that her designs included
cruises of charity in the North in summer and in tropical waters in the winter-time, and that
of all men she knew of, he was the Captain who should command her yacht. He was, indeed, admirably
adapted to this service, for he was of a kind and gentle nature, and loved children, and he
had such an observing mind that it frequently happened when he had looked over a new set of
passengers, and had observed their physical tendencies, that he did not take a trip to sea
at all, but cruised up the smooth quiet waters of the Hudson.

As soon as it could possibly be done, Captain Horn caused messages to be sent to many ports
on the French and Spanish coast and along the Mediterranean, in order that if the Vittorio
arrived in any of these harbors, her officers and men might be seized and held; but it was
a long time before there was any news of the pirate ship, and then she was heard of at Mogador,
a port on the western coast of Morocco, where she had been sold under very peculiar circumstances
and for a very small price by the men who had come there in her, and who had departed north
at different times on trading-vessels which were bound for Marseilles and Gibraltar.

More definite information was received of the third of the pirate vessels which had been fitted
out to capture the Peruvians' treasure, for, as this vessel approached the West Indies, she
was overhauled by a Spanish cruiser, who, finding her manned by a suspicious crew and well
supplied with firearms, had seized her as a filibuster, and had taken her into a Cuban port,
where she still remained, with her crew in prison awaiting trial or a tardy release, in case
it became inconvenient to detain them longer.

The other pirate vessel, on which Captain Hagar and his men had been placed when they were
forced to leave the Dunkery Beacon, finally reached Georgetown, British Guiana, where, after
a long course of legal action, it was condemned and sold, and as much of the price as was left
after costs had been paid, was handed over to the owners of the Dunkery Beacon.

Among the reasons which made Mrs. Cliff very glad to remain at Plainton was one of paramount
importance. She was now engaged in a great work which satisfied all her aspirations and desires
to make herself able to worthily and conscientiously cope with her income.

