The Assembly, therefore, upon a petition from inhabitants inveighing against this custom enacted
a prohibitory law in 1725. This law provided that no minister, pastor or magistrate or other
person whatsover who according to the laws of that province usually joined people in marriage
should upon any pretence whatever join in marriage any Negro with any white person on the penalty
of one hundred pounds. And it was further enacted that if any white man or woman should cohabit
or dwell with any Negro under pretense of being married, such white man or woman should be
put out of service as above directed until they come to the age of thirty-one years; and if
any free Negro man or woman should intermarry with a white man or woman, such Negro should
become a slave during life to be sold by order of the justice of the quarter sessions of the
respective county; and if any free Negro man or woman should commit fornication or adultery
with any white man or woman, such Negro or Negroes should be sold as a servant for seven years
and the white man or woman should be punished as the law directs in cases of adultery or fornication.[474]

This law seemed to have very little effect on the miscegenation of the races in certain parts.
In Chester County, according to the records of 1780, mulattoes constituted one fifth of the
Negro population.[475] Furthermore, that very year when the State of Pennsylvania had grown
sufficiently liberal to provide for gradual emancipation the law against the mingling of the
races was repealed. Mixed marriages thereafter became common as the white and the blacks in
the light of the American Revolution realized liberty in its full meaning. Thomas Branagan said:

     "There are many, very many blacks who ... begin to feel
     themselves consequential, ... will not be satisfied unless they
     get white women for wives, and are likewise exceedingly
     impertinent to white people in low circumstances.... I solemnly
     swear, I have seen more white women married to, and deluded
     through the arts of seduction by negroes in one year in
     Philadelphia, than for eight years I was visiting (West Indies
     and the Southern States). I know a black man who seduced a young
     white girl ... who soon after married him, and died with a broken
     heart. On her death he said that he would not disgrace himself to
     have a negro wife and acted accordingly, for he soon after
     married a white woman. ... There are perhaps hundreds of white
     women thus fascinated by black men in this city, and there are
     thousands of black children by them at present."[476]

A reaction thereafter set in against this custom during the first decade of the nineteenth
century, when fugitives in the rough were rushing to that State, and culminated in an actual
campaign against it by 1820. That year a petition from Greene County said that many Negroes
had settled in Pennsylvania and had been able to seduce into marriage "the minor children of
the white inhabitants."[477] This county, therefore, asked that these marriages be made an
offence against the laws of the State. Such a marriage was the cause of a riot in Columbia
in 1834 and in 1838 the members of the Constitutional Convention engaged in a heated discussion
of the custom.[478] Petitions were frequently sent to the legislature asking that this admixture
be penalized by law, but no such action was ever taken. Relying upon public opinion, however,
the advocates of racial integrity practically succeeded. Marriages of whites and blacks eventually
became so odious that they led to disturbances as in the case of the riot of 1849, one of the
causes of which was that a white man was living with a Negro wife.[479] This was almost ineffective,
however, in the prevention of race admixture. Clandestine intermingling went on and tended
to increase in enormous proportions. The conclusive proof of this is that in 1860 mulattoes
constituted one third of the Negro population of Pennsylvania.

Persons who professed seriously to consider the future of slavery, therefore, saw that miscegenation
and especially the general connection of white men with their female slaves introduced a mulatto
race whose numbers would become dangerous, if the affections of their white parents were permitted
to render them free.[480] The Americans of the future would thereby become a race of mixed
breeds rather than a white and a black population. As the lust of white persons for those of
color was too strong to prevent this miscegenation, the liberty of emancipating their mulatto
offspring was restricted in the slave States but that of selling them remained.[481]

These laws eventually, therefore, had their desired effect. They were never intended to prevent
the miscegenation of the races but to debase to a still lower status the offspring of the blacks
who in spite of public opinion might intermarry with the poor white women and to leave women
of color without protection against white men, who might use them for convenience, whereas
white women and black men would gradually grow separate and distinct in their social relations.
Although thereafter the offspring of blacks and whites did not diminish, instead of being gradually
assimilated to the type of the Caucasian they tended to constitute a peculiar class commonly
called people of color having a higher social status than that of the blacks but finally classified
with all other persons of African blood as Negroes.

While it later became a capital offence in some of the slave States for a Negro man to cohabit
with a white woman, Abdy who toured this country from 1833 to 1834 doubted that such laws were
enforced. "A man," said he, "was hanged not long ago for this crime at New Orleans. The partner
of his guilt--his master's daughter--endeavored to save his life, by avowing that she alone
was to blame. She died shortly after his execution."[482] With the white man and the Negro
woman the situation was different. A sister of President Madison once said to the Reverend
George Bourne, then a Presbyterian minister in Virginia: "We Southern ladies are complimented
with the name of wives; but we are only the mistresses of seraglios." The masters of the female
slaves, however, were not always the only persons of loose morals. Many women of color were
also prostituted to the purposes of young white men[483] and overseers.[484] Goodell reports
a well-authenticated account of a respectable Christian lady at the South who kept a handsome
mulatto female for the use of her genteel son, as a method of deterring him, as she said, "from
indiscriminate and vulgar indulgences."[485] Harriet Martineau discovered a young white man
who on visiting a southern lady became insanely enamored of her intelligent quadroon maid.
He sought to purchase her but the owner refused to sell the slave because of her unusual worth.
The young white man persisted in trying to effect this purchase and finally informed her owner
that he could not live without this attractive slave. Thereupon the white lady sold the woman
of color to satisfy the lust of her friend.[486]

The accomplishment of this task of reducing the free people of color to the status of the blacks,
however, was not easy. In the first place, so many persons of color had risen to positions
of usefulness among progressive people and had formed connections with them that an abrupt
separation was both inexpedient and undesirable. Exceptions to the hard and fast rules of caste
were often made to relieve the people of color. Moreover, the miscegenation of the races in
the South and especially in large cities like Charleston and New Orleans had gone to the extent
that from these centers eventually went, as they do now, a large number of quadroons and octoroons,[487]
who elsewhere crossed over to the other race.

White men ashamed of the planters who abused helpless black women are now trying to minimize
the prevalence of this custom. Such an effort, however, means little in the face of the facts
that one seventh of the Negroes in the United States had in their veins any amount of Caucasian
blood in 1860 and according to the last census more than one fifth of them have this infusion.
Furthermore the testimony of travelers in this country during the slavery period support the
contention that race admixture was common.[488]

So extensive did it become that the most prominent white men in the country did not escape.
Benjamin Franklin seems to have made no secret of his associations with Negro women.[490] Russell
connects many of these cases with the master class in Virginia.[491] There are now in Washington
Negroes who call themselves the descendants of two Virginians who attained the presidency of
the United States.

The abolitionists made positive statements about the mulatto offspring of Thomas Jefferson.
Goodell lamented the fact that Jefferson in his will had to entreat the legislature of Virginia
to confirm his bequest of freedom to his own reputed enslaved offspring that they might remain
in the State of their nativity, where their families and connections were.[492] Writing in
1845, the editor of the Cleveland American expressed regret that notwithstanding all the services
and sacrifices of Jefferson in the establishment of the freedom of this country, his own son
then living in Ohio was not allowed to vote or bear witness in a court of justice. The editor
of the Ohio Star said: "We are not sure whether this is intended as a statement of actual fact,
or of what might possibly and naturally enough be true." The Cincinnati Herald inquired: "Is
this a fact? If so, it ought to be known. Perhaps 'the Democracy' might be induced to pass
a special act in his favor." The Cleveland American, therefore, added: "We are credibly informed
that a natural son of Jefferson by the celebrated 'Black Sal,' a person of no little renown
in the politics of 1800 and thereafter, is now living in a central county of Ohio.

[443] Report of First Race Congress, 1911, p. 330; MacDonald, Trade, Politics, and Christianity,
p. 235; and Contemporary Review, August, 1911.

[444] Report of First Races Congress, 1911, p. 330.

[445] Johnston, The Negro in the New World, p. 98.

[446] Ibid., p. 78.

[447] Ibid., pp. 98-99.

[448] Authorities consider the Amerindians the most fecund stock in the country, especially
when mixed with an effusion of white or black blood. Agassiz, A Journey in Brazil in 1868.

[449] Johnston, The Negro in the New World, p. 135.

[450] Code Noir.

[451] Brackett, The Negro in Maryland, pp. 32-33.

[452] Benjamin Banneker's mother was a white woman who married one of her own slaves. See Tyson,
Benjamin Banneker, p. 3.

[453] Archives of Maryland, Proceedings of the General Assembly, 1637-1664, pp. 533-534.

[454] Calhoun, A Social History of the American Family, p. 94.

[455] Harris and McHenry Reports, I, pp. 374, 376; II, pp. 26, 38, 214, 233.

[456] Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, VI, pp. 249-250.

[457] McCormac, White Servitude in Maryland, p. 70.

[458] Act of Assembly, Oct., 1727.

[459] Dorsey, The General Public Statutory Law and Public Local Law of State of Maryland, from
1692-1839, p. 79.

[460] Bullagh, White Servitude in the Colony of Virginia, pp. 72, 73.

[461] Hening, The Statutes at Large, I, pp. 146, 532. II, 170; III, pp. 86-88, 252.

[462] Hening, Statutes at Large, VI, pp. 360-362.

[463] Meade, Old Churches and Families of Virginia, I, p. 366.

[464] Russell, Free Negro in Virginia, pp. 138-139.

[465] Bassett, Slavery and Servitude in North Carolina, p. 83.

[466] Ibid., pp. 58-59. See also Natural History of North Carolina, p. 48; and Hawk's History
of North Carolina, II, pp. 126-127.

[467] Potter, Revised Laws of North Carolina, I, p. 130.

[468] Ibid., I, p. 157.

[469] Massachusetts Charters, etc., p. 747; Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, VI, p. 262.

[470] Turner, The Negro in Pennsylvania, pp. 29-30.

[471] Ibid., p. 30.

[472] The American Weekly Mercury (Philadelphia), August 20, 1720.

[473] The Pennsylvania Gazette, June 1, 1749.

[474] Statutes at Large, IV, p. 62.

[475] Turner, The Negro in Pennsylvania, p. 31.

[476] Branagan, Serious Remonstrances, pp. 68, 69, 70, 71, 73, 74, 75, 102; Somerset Whig,
March 12, 1818, and Union Times, August 15, 1834.

[477] Journal of Senate, 1820-1821, p. 213; and American Daily Advertiser, January 23, 1821.

[478] Proceedings and Debates of the Convention of 1838, X, p. 230.

[479] The Spirit of the Times, October 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 19, 1849.

[480] Harriet Martineau, Views of Slavery and Emancipation, p. 10.

[481] Hart, Slavery and Abolition, p. 182; Censuses of the United States.

[482] Abdy, North America, I, p. 160.

[483] Child, Anti-slavery Catechism, p. 17; 2 Howard Mississippi Reports, p. 837.

[484] Kemble, Georgian Plantation, pp. 140, 162, 199, 208-210; Olmstead, Seaboard States, pp.
599-600; Rhodes, United States, I, pp. 341-343.

[485] Goodell, Slave Code, pp. 111-112.

[486] Harriet Martineau, Views of Slavery and Emancipation, p. 13.

[487] Featherstonaugh, Excursion, p. 141; Buckingham, Slave States, I, p. 358.

[488] Writing of conditions in this country prior to the American Revolution, Anne Grant found
only two cases of miscegenation in Albany before this period but saw it well established later
by the British soldiers. Johann Schoepf--witnessed this situation in Charleston in 1784. J.
P. Brissot saw this tendency toward miscegenation as a striking feature of society among the
French in the Ohio Valley in 1788. The Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach was very much impressed
with the numerous quadroons and octoroons of New Orleans in 1825 and Charles Gayarré portrayed
the same conditions there in 1830. Frederika Bremer frequently met with this class while touring
the South in 1850. See Grant, Memoirs of An American Lady, p. 28; Schoepf, Travels in the Confederation,
II, p. 382; Brissot, Travels, II, p. 61; Saxe-Weimar, Travels, II, p. 69; Grace King, New Orleans,
pp. 346-349; Frederika Bremer, Homes of the New World, I, pp. 325, 326, 382, 385.

[489] The American Journal of Sociology, XXII, p. 98.

[490] Ibid., XXII, p. 98.

[491] See Russell, Free Negro in Virginia, p. 127.

[492] Goodell, Slave Code, p. 376.

[493] The Liberator, December 19, 1845.

[494] Swisshelm, Half a Century, p. 129.

GERRIT SMITH'S EFFORT IN BEHALF OF THE NEGROES IN NEW YORK

During the first half of the nineteenth century, the condition of the free Negroes in the Southern
States became more and more critical. The doctrine of the rights of man, which had swept over
the world in the latter part of the eighteenth century had had its effect on the colonists
and resulted in the manumission of many slaves. These freedmen taking advantage of their economic
and educational opportunities became an ever increasing menace to the social institutions that
had no foundation except that of slavery. Ambitious, often aggressive, they were a constant
source of dissatisfaction because of the unhappy comparison of their lot with that of the slaves.
They, moreover, encouraged the slaves to improve their condition and to escape to the North.
This situation was rendered still more critical for the reason that the South, considering
slavery indispensable to its economic life, was already being lashed into a frenzy to gain
new slave territory and to strengthen the institution by every possible method of oppression
of the blacks. Measures inimical to the economic progress of freedmen were enacted.[495] Many
who had been manumitted were seized and again reduced to slavery. Educational opportunities
were restricted or denied. Legally they were without voice and hence could secure no redress
when wronged.[496]

This economic poverty, insecurity of personal liberty, and absolutely negative political status,
impelled the freedmen to find better conditions in the North. The reaction against plantation
life and the glittering attractions of the large city with the prospect of earning money less
arduously no doubt account for their influx into the industrial centers.[497] These free blacks
migrated in great numbers especially to New York and Philadelphia. The Colonization Society
attempted to solve the problem by effecting the colonization of the free Negroes somewhere
either within or without the United States. Many friends of the Negroes and even some of the
Negroes themselves thought favorably of the idea and a few small colonies were formed in the
Western States and in Liberia.[498]

Among the anti-slavery men who at first saw no fault in the aims of the Colonization Society
was Gerrit Smith. The son of a slave owner in the State of New York, he was acquainted with
slavery in the milder form in which it existed in the North. It was just two years before his
birth that the legislature of New York passed its act of emancipation providing that all children
after the year 1799 should be free, the males on reaching the age of twenty-eight years and
the female twenty-five. His father, Peter Smith, was a slaveholder and the owner of extensive
lands in the counties of northern New York; and even before his death the management of these
vast properties devolved upon his son.

He soon became deeply interested in the uplift of the slaves and endeavored to improve their
condition by gradual emancipation looking forward to colonization. As early as 1834, his diary
shows a growing belief in the universal right to liberty. Years ripened this belief and also
developed his anti-land-monopolist principles, both of which reached fruition in his act of
1846, by which he gave away thousands of acres of land. He severed his connection with the
Colonization Society when that body overtly declared that it was not a society for the abolition
of slavery nor for the improvement of the blacks nor for the suppression of the slave trade,
and he threw his energy into the work of abolition as fervently, if not as drastically, as
Garrison.[499]

Anti-land-monopolist as he was, Gerrit Smith believed that the life of the small free farmer
was calculated to develop thrift and self respect in the character of the colored freedmen
that he saw crowded in sections of the large cities. He, therefore, felt that it was safe to
make a beginning in the work of distributing land to individuals. He had theretofore given
tracts of land to public institutions and a few small parcels to individuals, but had not entered
upon the larger task of making large donations of land to the poor.

He then planned to transfer three thousand parcels of land of forty to sixty acres each during
the following three years. To whom among the poor he should make these deeds, was a question
he could not hastily solve. He was sure, however, that, inasmuch as his home and the land were
both in the State of New York, it would be very suitable to select his beneficiaries from among
the people of that State. But for a long time, he was at a loss to decide, whether to take
his beneficiaries generally from the meritorious poor or only from the deserving Negroes. He
said, "I could not put a bounty on color. I shrank from the least appearance of doing so, and
if I know my heart, it was equally compassionate toward such white and black men as are equal
sufferers."[501] In the end, however, he concluded to confine his gifts to Negroes.

He would not have come to this conclusion he said, if the land he had to give away had been
several times as much as it was, nor if the Negroes, the poorest of the poor, had not been
the most deeply wronged class of the citizens. "That they are so," said he, "is evident, if
only from the fact, that the cruel, killing, Heaven-defying prejudice of which they are victims,
has closed against them the avenues to riches and respectability--to happiness and usefulness.
That they are so, is also evident from the fact, that, whilst white men in this State, however
destitute of property, are allowed to vote for Civil Rulers, every colored man in it who does
not own landed estate to the value of two-hundred and fifty dollars, is excluded from the exercise
of this natural and indispensably protective right."[502] He confessed that he was influenced
by the consideration that there was great encouragement to improve the condition of the Negroes,
because every amelioration in it contributed to loosen the bands of the enslaved portion of
their outraged and afflicted race.

He, therefore, requested Reverend Theodore S. Wright, Reverend Charles B. Ray, and Dr. J. McCune
Smith, three representative Negroes of New York City, to make out a list of the Negroes who
should receive from him parcels of land. His only restrictions upon them in making this selection
were that they should choose no person younger than twenty-one and no person older than sixty;
that they accept no person who was in easy circumstances as to property; and no one who was
already the owner of land, and no drunkards.[503] He further promised to pay all taxes as well
as purchase money and interest due to the State of New York hoping that none of the parcels
would be sold for the nonpayment of taxes.[504] The total number of colonists were to be one
thousand nine hundred and eighty-five, to be distributed as follows: in the county of Suffolk,
127; Queens, 215; Kings, 197; New York, 861; Richmond, 832; Rockland, 331; Westchester, 115;
Dutchess, 150; Sullivan, 5; Ulster, 106; Orange, 136; and Putnam, 10.

On September 9, 1846, he wrote again to three gentlemen of color, saying that a thousand of
the deeds were already in the hands of the committee for distribution. He had saved them the
expense of securing the certificate of the County Clerk by having the acknowledgment of the
execution taken by a Supreme Court judge. The only expense left for the beneficiaries to bear
was the recording of the deed. The letter closed with a request that the three gentlemen prepare
and send out a circular among the persons receiving the deeds, making known to them the conditions
and reasons which actuated him in bestowing the land. This was done and the recipients were
exhorted to profit by the chance to become land owners and thereby secure their right to vote.

These lands, as Smith realized and admitted, were not all arable but many of them had considerable
timber. Such property today would be considered valuable, but in those days of plentitude it
passed as undesirable. Some of his enemies accused him of making for himself a reputation for
generosity by giving away useless land.

The failure of the enterprise did not cause this philanthropist to cease his activities in
behalf of freedom and justice to the Negroes. He continued a staunch abolitionist, demanding
unconditional emancipation of the slaves and leaving undone nothing which might effect this
change. He was once intimately associated with John Brown, who at one time left his home and
purchased from Smith a farm in the Negro colony in order to live with the blacks and help them
to improve their economic condition. Smith lived until 1874, long enough to see the Negroes
freed and many of them making elsewhere that economic progress which was the dream of his earlier
years.

[496] Goodell, Slave Code, and Hurd, The Law of Freedom and Bondage, II, pp. 1-218.

[497] Woodson, A Century of Negro Migration, Chapter II.

[498] The JOURNAL OF NEGRO HISTORY, I, p. 276; II, p. 209.

[499] Frothingham, Gerrit Smith, pp. 94-143.

[500] Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, II, p. 56.

[501] Frothingham, Gerrit Smith, p. 103.

[502] Frothingham, Gerrit Smith, 104.

[503] Letter of Gerrit Smith to Theodore S. Wright, Charles B. Ray, and J. McCune Smith.

[504] Ibid.

[505] Special Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Education on the Schools of the District
of Columbia, 1871, p. 367; The African Repository, X. p. 312.

[506] Frothingham, Gerrit Smith, p. 73.

THE BUXTON SETTLEMENT IN CANADA

The Buxton, or Elgin Association Settlement, in Kent county, western Ontario, was in many respects
the most important attempt made before the Civil War to found a Negro refugee colony in Canada.
In population, material wealth and general organization it was outstanding, and the firm foundation
upon which it was established is shown by the fact that today, more than half a century after
emancipation, it is still a prosperous and distinctly Negro settlement.

The western peninsula of Ontario, lying between Lakes Huron and Erie, was long the Mecca of
the fugitive slave. Bounded on the east by the State of New York, on the west by Michigan,
and on the south by Ohio and northwestern Pennsylvania, this was the part of Canada most easily
reached by the fugitive; and Niagara, Cleveland, Detroit and other lake ports saw thousands
of refugees cross narrow strips of water to "shake the lion's paw" and find freedom in the
British queen's dominions. During the forties and fifties there was a constant stream of refugees
into Canada. As many as thirty in a day would cross the Detroit River at Fort Malden alone.
Many of these went to the cities and towns, but others found greater happiness in the separate
Negro communities which grew up here and there.

The history of the Buxton settlement, one of these, is closely linked with the name of Rev.
William King. King was a native of Londonderry, Ireland, a graduate of Glasgow College, who
had emigrated to the United States and become rector of a college in Louisiana. Later he returned
to Scotland, studied theology in the Free Church College, Edinburgh, and in 1846 was sent out
to Canada as a missionary of the Free Church of Scotland. While he was living in Louisiana
he became, through marriage, the owner of fifteen slaves of an estimated value of $9,000. For
a time he placed them on a neighboring plantation and gave them the proceeds of their labor
but that did not satisfy his conscience and in 1848 he brought them to Canada, thereby automatically
giving them their freedom. His effort on their behalf did not end here. Having brought them
to this new country, he felt it a duty to look after them, to educate and make of them useful
citizens. The same thing, he believed, could be done for others in like circumstance.

The first effort to secure a tract of land for the refugees was made by the Rev. Mr. King as
the representative of the Presbyterian Church. This application was before the Executive Council
of the Canadian Government in September, 1848, but was not successful. Steps were at once taken
to organize a non-sectarian body to deal with the government and this new body took the name
of the Elgin Association in honor of the then governor-general of the Canadas who seems to
have been well disposed toward the refugees. The Elgin Association was legally incorporated
"for the settlement and moral improvement of the colored population of Canada, for the purpose
of purchasing crown or clergy reserve lands in the township of Raleigh and settling the same
with colored families resident in Canada of approved moral character."[507] Rev. Dr. Connor
was the first president; Rev. Dr. Willis, of Knox College, Toronto, first vice-president, and
Rev. William King, second vice-president. J. T. Matthews was the secretary, J. S. Howard, treasurer,
while the original directors were E. A. T. McCord, Walter McFarland, Peter Freland, Charles
Bercsy, W. R. Abbott, John Laidlaw, E. F. Whittesend and James Brown. These are the names that
appear upon the petition to the government for lands, the original of which is in the Dominion
Archives.

There were difficulties in securing the land. Decided opposition to the whole project made
itself manifest in Kent county.[508] In Chatham, the county town, a meeting of protest was
held. The plans of the Elgin Association were condemned and a resolution was passed setting
forth objections to selling any of the public domain "to foreigners, the more so when such
persons belong to a different branch of the human family and are black." A vigilance committee
was appointed to watch the operations of the Elgin Association while the various township councils
interested were requested to advance the necessary funds for carrying on the campaign. That
there was some dissent, however, even in Chatham is shown by the fact that one Henry Gouins
was allowed to speak in favor of the Association. The vigilance committee soon issued a small
pamphlet, made up chiefly of the speeches and resolutions of the public meeting. The name of
Edwin Larwill, member of Parliament for the county of Kent, appears as one of those most active
in opposition to the settlement plan. Larwill had a record for hostility to the colored people
though at election times he was accustomed to parade as their friend. In 1856 he introduced
in the House of Assembly a most insulting resolution[509] calling for a report from the government
on "all negro or colored, male or female quadroon, mulatto, samboes, half breeds or mules,
mongrels or conglomerates" in public institutions. Larwill was at once called to account for
his action and a resolution was introduced calling upon him to retract.

The opposition of Larwill and his supporters failed to impede the progress of the Association
and a tract of about 9000 acres, lying to the south of Chatham and within a mile or two of
Lake Erie, was purchased. This was surveyed and divided into small farms of fifty acres each,
roads were cut through the dense forest and the first settlers began the arduous work of clearing.
The colonists were allowed to take up fifty acres each at a price of $2.50 per acre, payable
in ten annual instalments.[510] Each settler was bound within a certain period to build a house
at least as good as the model house set up by the Association, to provide himself with necessary
implements and to proceed with the work of clearing land. The model house after which nearly
all the dwellings were copied was 18 by 24 feet, 12 feet in height and with a stoop running
the length of the front. Some of the settlers were ambitious enough to build larger and better
houses but there were none inferior to the model. The tract of country upon which the settlers
were located was an almost unbroken forest. The ground was level, heavily timbered with oak,
hickory, beech, elm, etc. Part of the soil was a deep rich black loam. Trees two to four feet
in diameter were common and the roads cut through to open up settlement were hardly more than
wide lanes. Rev. Mr. King thought that one reason for the colony's success was the fact that
so many of the settlers were good axe men. Their industry was remarkable and some of the more
industrious paid for their land in five or six years and took up more to clear.[511]

There are several contemporary references to the sobriety and morality of the colonists. The
New York Tribune correspondent in 1857 was able to report that liquor was neither made nor
sold in the colony and that drunkenness was unknown. There was no illegitimacy and there had
been but one arrest for violation of the Canadian laws in the seven years of the colony's history.
Though the Presbyterian church gave special attention to the Buxton colony this did not hinder
the growth of other sects, Methodists and Baptists both being numerous, though the best of
feeling seems to have prevailed and many who retained their own connection were fairly regular
attendants at Mr. King's services.

The Tribune article gives an interesting description of the homes. The cabins, though rough
and rude, were covered with vines and creepers with bright flowers and vegetable gardens round
about. Despite the pioneer conditions there abounded comfort and plenty of plain homemade furniture.
Pork, potatoes and green corn were staple items of the menu. Of King's former slaves the Tribune
reports that three had died, nine were at Buxton, one was married and living in Chatham and
two others in Detroit were about to return. The Tribune reports on one case as typical of what
was being achieved by the colony. A colored man, fourteen years before a slave in Missouri
and who had been at Buxton six years, reported that he had 24 acres out of his plot cleared,
fenced and under cultivation. On six acres more the trees were felled. He had paid four installments
on his farm, owned a yoke of oxen, a wagon and a mare and two colts. His fourteen-year-old
boy was at school and was reading Virgil. In the home, besides bed and bedding, chairs and
tables, there was a rocking chair and a large, new safe. Water was brought to the visitor in
a clean tumbler, set upon a plate. A neighboring cabin had carpet on the floor and some crude
prints on the walls. All the cabins had large brick fireplaces. Rev. Mr. King's own house,
built of logs with high steep roof, dormer windows and a porch the whole length, was somewhat
larger than the others.[512]

What these people actually accomplished at Buxton amid conditions so different from what they
had known in the past is altogether remarkable. Some had known little of farm work before coming
to the colony while all of them must have found the Canadian climate something of a hardship
even in the summer. Outside of the farm work they showed ability as mechanics and tradesmen.
One who visited them in the fifties says:[513]

     "The best country tavern in Kent is kept by Mr. West, at Buxton.
     Mr. T. Stringer is one of the most enterprising tradesmen in the
     county, and he is a Buxtonian, a colored man. I broke my carriage
     near there. The woodwork, as well as the iron, was broken. I
     never had better repairing done to either the woodwork or the
     ironwork of my carriage, I never had better shoeing than was done
     to my horses, in Buxton, in Feb., 1852, by a black man, a native
     of Kentucky--in a word, the work was done after the pattern of
     Charles Peyton Lucas. They are blessed with able mechanics, good
     farmers, enterprising men, and women worthy of them and they are
     training the rising generation to principles such as will give
     them the best places in the esteem and the service of their
     countrymen at some day not far distant."

A few years sufficed to remove most of the prejudice that had shown itself in the opposition
of the Larwill faction at Chatham at the inception of the colony. When Rev. S. R. Ward visited
the colony in the early fifties he found that instead of lowering land values of adjoining
property as some had predicted would result from establishing a Negro colony in Kent county,
the Buxton settlement had actually raised the value of adjoining farms. The Buxton settlers
were spoken of by the white people as good farmers, good customers and good neighbors. There
were white children attending the Buxton school and white people in their Sunday church services.

Perhaps no finer testimony to the success of the whole undertaking is recorded than that of
Dr. Samuel R. Howe who came to Canada for the Freedmen's Inquiry Committee.

     "Buxton is certainly a very interesting place," he wrote.
     "Sixteen years ago it was a wilderness. Now, good highways are
     laid out in all directions through the forest, and by their side,
     standing back 33 feet from the road, are about 200 cottages, all
     built in the same pattern, all looking neat and comfortable;
     around each one is a cleared place of several acres which is well
     cultivated. The fences are in good order, the barns seem well
     filled, and cattle and horses, and pigs and poultry, abound.
     There are signs of industry and thrift and comfort everywhere;
     signs of intemperance, of idleness, of want nowhere. There is no
     tavern and no groggery; but there is a chapel and a schoolhouse.
     Most interesting of all are the inhabitants. Twenty years ago
     most of them were slaves, who owned nothing, not even their
     children. Now they own themselves; they own their houses and
     farms; and they have their wives and children about them. They
     are enfranchised citizens of a government which protects their
     rights.... The present condition of all these colonists as
     compared with their former one is remarkable.... This settlement
     is a perfect success. Here are men who were bred in slavery, who
     came here and purchased land at the government price, cleared it,
     bought their own implements, built their own houses after a model
     and have supported themselves in all material circumstances and
     now support their schools in part.... I consider that this
     settlement has done as well as a white settlement would have
     done under the same circumstances."[514]

The Buxton settlement had its part in the John Brown affair. A letter written by John Brown,
Jr., from Sandusky, Ohio, August 27, 1859, and addressed to "Friend Henrie," (Kagi), speaks
of men in Hamilton, Chatham, Buxton, etc., suitable for the enterprise.

     "At Dr. W's house (presumably in Hamilton) we formed an
     association," he says, "the officers consisting of chairman,
     treasurer and corresponding secretary, the business of which is
     to hunt up good workmen and raise the means among themselves to
     send them forward.... No minutes of the organization nor any of
     its proceedings are or will be preserved in writing. I formed
     similar associations in Chat--and also at B-x-t-n."

John Brown, Jr., also speaks of going to Buxton where he found "the man, the leading spirit
in that affair."

     "On Thursday night last" said he, "I went with him on foot 12
     miles; much of the way through mere paths and sought out in the
     bush some of the choicest. Had a meeting after ten o'clock at
     night in his house. His wife is a heroine and he will be on hand
     as soon as his family can be provided for."[515]

Such is the earlier history of the experiment in Canada of taking bondmen and placing before
them the opportunity not alone to make a living in freedom but also to rise in the social scale.
How well these people took advantage of their opportunity is shown not only by the material
progress they made but by the fact that they gained for themselves the respect of their white
neighbors, a respect that continues today for their many descendants who still comprise the
Buxton community in Kent county, Ontario.

                                   FRED LANDON

PUBLIC LIBRARIAN, LONDON, CANADA, AND LECTURER IN AMERICAN HISTORY IN WESTERN UNIVERSITY, LONDON.

FOOTNOTES:

[507] Drew, A North-Side View of Slavery, 1856, p. 292.

[508] Documents in Canadian Archives Department.

[509] Toronto Weekly Globe, January 1, 1858.

[510] Drew, A North-Side View of Slavery, 1856, pp. 292-293.

