       *       *       *       *       *

    "Among other public buildings in a certain town which for many
    reasons it will be prudent to refrain from mentioning ... on a
    day and date which I need not trouble to repeat...."

No, this is not from our Special Representative behind the Front; it is the opening passage
of Oliver Twist, and shows what a splendid War Correspondent DICKENS would have made.

       *       *       *       *       *

Teuton Anatomy.

    "The clay feet of Germany will be revealed when we take off
    the gloves."--Mr. ARNOLD WHITE in "The Sunday Chronicle."

So that's where they wear them.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Questioned with reference to a letter written by him to
    Steinhauer, in which he said, 'The name of the gentleman in
    Woolwich Arsenal is ----,' the prisoner said that was a false
    name."--Times.

It's a very silly name anyway.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The announcement issued by the Press Bureau that carrier
    pigeons are to be used officially for certain purposes is an
    extremely interesting reversion to what we had regarded as
    almost premature ways of carrying news."--Westminster
    Gazette.

Not so premature as the WOLFF method.

       *       *       *       *       *

More Information for the Enemy.

    "BRITAIN'S SUGAR SUPPLY.
    SUFFICIENT FOR EIGHT MOUTHS."--Aberdeen Evening Gazette.

We insist on providing one of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Now came the drums and fifes, and now the blare of the brass
    instruments, and continuously the singing of the soldiers
    of 'Die Wacht am goose step, while the good lieges of
    Brus-Rhein.'"--Adelaide Advertiser.

A good song, but (so it has always struck us) a clumsy title.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from Army Routine Orders, Expeditionary Force, Nov. 9th:--

    "It is notified for information that shooting in the Forest of
    Clairmarais and certain portions of the adjacent country is
    preserved."

Clever Germans are now disguising themselves as pheasants.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRICE OF PATRIOTISM.

Helen and I are economising; so the other evening we dined at the Rococo.

"That's no economy," you cry; so let me explain.

In common with most other folk who are not engaged in the manufacture of khaki, or rifles,
or Army woollens, or heavy siege-guns (to which I had not the foresight to turn my attention
before the war came along), we have found it necessary to adopt a policy of retrenchment and
reform; and one of our first moves in this direction was to convert Evangeline from a daily
into a half-daily. Evangeline is not a newspaper but a domestic servant, and before the new
order was issued she had been in the habit of arriving at our miniature flat at 7.30 in the
morning (when it wasn't 8.15), and retiring at 9 in the evening.

Now, however, Evangeline goes after lunch, and Helen, who has bought a shilling cookery book,
prepares the dinner herself.

On the day in question Helen suddenly decided to spend the afternoon repairing a week's omissions
on the part of Evangeline. It proved a veritable labour of Hercules, the flat being, as Helen
with near enough accuracy gave me to understand, an "Aegæan stable." Tea-time came, but brought
no tea. Shortly before seven Helen struck, and declared (this time without any classical metaphor)
that she wasn't going to cook any dinner that evening. Not to be outdone, I affirmed in reply
that even if she did cook it I wasn't going to clear it away. So we cleaned and adorned ourselves
and groped our way to the Rococo.

We were both too tired to go to the trouble of choosing our dinner, and it was therefore that
we elected to make our way through the table-d'hôte, to which we felt that our appetite, unimpaired
by tea, could do full justice. Luxuriously we toyed with hors-d'oeuvre, while the orchestra
patriotically intimated that ours is a Land of Hope and Glory; blissfully we consumed our soup,
undeterred by repeated reminders of the distance to Tipperary. It was with the fish that the
trouble started.

At the second mouthful it began to dawn upon me that what the band was playing was the Brabançonne.
I looked around, and gathered that I was not alone in the realisation of that fact; for one
by one my fellow-diners struggled hesitatingly to their feet, and stood in awkward reverence
while the National Anthem of our brave Belgian Allies was in course of execution. I looked
at Helen, and Helen looked at me, and we both tried not to look too regretfully at our plates
as we also adopted the prevailing pose. Not one note of that light-hearted anthem did the orchestra
miss, and when it was over the warmth in our hearts almost compensated for the coldness of
our fish. We decided to jump at once to the entrée.

Whatever else may be said of the Marseillaise, there can be no mistaking its identity. The
first bar sufficed to bring the whole room to attention, and a promising dish of sweetbreads
shared the fate of its predecessor. Before the final crash had ceased to reverberate we sat
down with a thump, resigning ourselves to the prospect of doing double justice to the joint.
But the orchestra was not so lightly to be cheated of its prey. True, we held out as long as
possible while the Russian Hymn began to unfold its majestic length, and Helen actually managed
to convey a considerable piece of saddle of mutton to her mouth while she was in the very act
of rising. That joint, however, was soon but a memory of anticipation, and our hunger was still
keen upon us when the funereal strains of the Japanese Anthem coincided with the arrival of
a wild duck. I had always harboured secret doubts of the advisability of Japan's joining in
the War, and now they were intensified many times. Cold wild duck is an impossibility even
to a hungry man.

Ice-pudding, though scarcely satisfying, seemed to warrant the expectation that it would at
least survive whatever further ordeal the band had in store for us. But that hope too was doomed
to extinction. When God Save the King smote the air the growing lethargy of the company of
diners vanished, and all joined with a will in the recital of all its verses. In the glow of
loyal enthusiasm that filled the room the ice gradually melted, and as we surveyed the fluid
mess upon our plates we knew that our dinner was gone beyond recall.

Weary and unappeased we crept home through the City of Dreadful Night. I found a remnant of
cold beef and some pickles in the kitchen, and on this we went to bed. I slept but little,
and on five occasions watched Helen, who has dreams, get out of bed and stand to attention.

Of course it might have been worse; for the musicians of the Rococo evidently had not learnt
the national airs of Serbia and Montenegro; and Portugal had not then been drawn into the War.
But until the trouble is over I shall avoid restaurants which harbour an orchestra. As you
say, it is no economy.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MR. BERNARD JAW.

  Illustrious Jester, who in happier days
  Amused us with your Prefaces and Plays,
  Acquiring a precarious renown
  By turning laws and morals upside down,
  Sticking perpetual pins in Mrs. Grundy,
  Railing at marriage or the British Sunday,
  And lavishing your acid ridicule
  On the foundations of imperial rule;--
  'Twas well enough in normal times to sit
  And watch the workings of your wayward wit,
  But in these bitter days of storm and stress,
  When souls are shown in all their nakedness,
  Your devastating egotism stands out
  Denuded of the last remaining clout.
  You own our cause is just, yet can't refrain
  From libelling those who made its justice plain;
  You chide the Prussian Junkers, yet proclaim
  Our statesmen beat them at their own vile game.

  Thus, bent on getting back at any cost
  Into the limelight you have lately lost,
  And, high above war's trumpets loudly blown
  On land and sea, eager to sound your own,
  We find you faithful to your ancient plan
  Of disagreeing with the average man,
  And all because you think yourself undone
  Unless in a minority of one.

  Vain to the core, thus in the nation's need
  You carp and cavil while your brothers bleed,
  And while on England vitriol you bestow
  You offer balsam to her deadliest foe.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a commercial traveller's letter to his chief:--

    "DEAR SIR,--On Wednesday next I want you to allow me the day
    off. My wife having lost her mother is being buried on that
    date and I should like to attend the funeral."

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a child's essay on CROMWELL:--

    "In his last years, Cromwell grew very much afraid of plots,
    and it is said that he even wore underclothes to protect
    himself."

We wonder if the KAISER knows of this.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AWAKENING.

  "Here no howitzers speak in stern styles,
    Light and gay is the leathern bomb,
  We pay our sixpences down at the turnstiles,
    And that is our centre, name of Tom;
          Wild thunder rolls
          When he scores his goals,
  And up in the air go Alf and Ern's tiles;
    But what is this rumour of war? Whence cometh it from?"

  So said Bottlesham, best of cities
    Watching the ball from seats above.
  "Belgium ruined? A thousand pities!
    Bother the KAISER'S mailéd glove!"
          But it left no stings
          When they heard these things,
  Though they wept as the brown bird weeps for Itys
    On the day that the Wanderers whacked them two to love.

  Suddenly then the news came flying,
    "English mariners meet the Dutch,
  Tars interned, with the neutrals vieing,
    Beaten at Gröningen." Wild hands clutch
          At the evening sheets
          And the swift pulse beats;
  Is the fame of HAWKE and FROBISHER dying?
    The heart of the town is stirred by the NELSON touch.

  Six--five. It's true. And the tears bedizen
    The smoke-stained cheeks, and there comes a scream,
  "If our English lads in a far-off prison
    Are matched one day with a German team
          And the Germans win,
          They will say in Berlin
  That a brighter than all our stars has risen;
    Will even the Bottlesham Rovers stand supreme?

  "Infantry, cavalry, guard and lancer--
    Who on that day will bear the brunt,
  With twinkling feet like a tip-toe dancer
    Dribbling about while the half-backs grunt?
          There is only one
          Who can vanquish the Hun!"
  And Bottlesham town with a cry made answer,
    "There is only one; we must send our Tom to the front."

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

A RIVAL OF "TIPPERARY."

While much has been written of the songs that inspire our own brave troops on the march, little
is heard of those affected by our Allies.

Happily Mr. Punch's Special Eye-witness with General Headquarters in the Eastern Area has been
enabled to send us the words of a song which, set to an old Slav air, is rendered with immense
élan by the gallant Russians as they go into battle. It is as follows:--

  It's a hard nut is Cracow,
    It's a hard nut to crack,
  But it's not so hard to crack, oh!
    When once you've got the knack.
  Good-bye, Przemysl;
    Farewell, Lemberg (Lwow);
  It's a hard, hard nut to crack is Cracow,
    But we'll soon crack it now.

By the more cultured Russian regiments, i.e., those recruited in the neighbourhood of the German
frontier, the last line is rendered:--

  But we'll crack it right off,

to rhyme with Lvoff--the correct pronunciation of Lwow, according to a contemporary.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

KING HENRY IV., PART I.

I commend Sir HERBERT TREE'S obvious desire to do his duty as an actor-manager and a patriot.
His true intent is all for our good; and he supports his choice of a play in which Falstaff
is the central obsession by a printed quotation from the words of "That Wise Ruler Queen Elizabeth
of England," where she says: "'Tis simple mirth keepeth high courage alive." But yet he does
not convince me that he has chosen wisely here. For in the first place we are not closely interested
in civil war, as we came near to being in the dim Ulster period; and patriotism, which it is
his object to encourage, is like to remain unaffected by a play in which our sympathies are
fairly distributed between rebel and royalist. In the second place I cannot believe that the
glorification of drunkenness and braggadocio in the person of Falstaff can directly assist
the cause (which at this moment needs all the help it can get) of sobriety and self-respect.

Having made this protest I have little but praise for the performance itself, though I think
Sir HERBERT TREE'S own lethargy was not wholly to be excused by the hampering rotundity of
his girth; and that all this deliberate sword-play, where you wait till your enemy has got
his right guard before you arrange a concussion between your weapon and his, fails to impose
itself as an image of War. But it was no fault of the actors if we suffered a further loss
of actuality by the incredible amount of fine poetry and rhetoric thrown off by military men
at junctures calling for immediate action.

I also venture to make my complaint to the author that the Falstaff scenes are given too great
a dominance, diverting us from the main issue so long that at one time we almost lost count
of it; and that the picture of that fat impostor lying supine in a simulation of death within
a few feet of the fallen body of the heroic Hotspur was repellent to one's sense of the proprieties.

Mr. MATHESON LANG was a brave figure as Hotspur; but, after lately seeing that other keen actor,
Mr. OWEN NARES, in the part of a modern intellectual discussing the ethics of War, I could
not quite get myself to believe in him as Prince Hal. He spoke some of his lines with a fine
ardour, but he was too high-browed and slight of body, and it was unthinkable that he could
ever have persuaded Hotspur to die at his hands.

Sir HERBERT TREE affected an almost proprietary interest in the bibulous humours of Falstaff,
presenting them with an easy and leisurely restraint; and Mr. BASIL GILL both in form and manner
made a quite good King. The minor parts upheld the standard of His Majesty's; and a pleasant
rattling of steel and shimmer of mail ran through the scenes of active service. Mr. PERCY MACQUOID
had seen to it that the period was there, and Mr. JOSEPH HARKER had taken good care that the
jewelry of SHAKSPEARE'S verse should have the right setting, though I could easily have mistaken
his Gadshill scene for a section of the Lake Country.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GRIEVANCE.

Nothing is too good for our fighting men. Let my subscription to that axiom be complete; and
yet----

Well, it is like this. A man who is only a year or so too old for active service, but feels
as fit and keen as a boy, has so many opportunities for regretting his enforced civilism and
absence from the arena that it is hard when additional ones are thrust upon him.

He may do his best at home. He may guard gasworks, or organise funds, or campaign as an enlister,
or visit the hospitals; but all the time he is conscious that being here is so different from
being there. It galls him day and night, and the only thing that can help him at all is the
society of lovely women, and now he has lost that!

I hate to grumble, and I have, I believe, shouldered my share of the new taxes like a man,
but I am not made of such stern stuff as to be superior to all human aid, and in my own case
the mortification of non-combating, which now and then becomes depressingly acute, is to be
alleviated only in this way. Nice women must do their part.

But do they? No. They did at first, but no longer.

Let me tell you. The other evening I found myself one of the complacent hosts of a party of
merry chattering young women, who seemed to be quite satisfied with our attention. All of us
were just beginning to be very jolly, and I had actually forgotten my hard destiny of inactivity,
when who should come into the room but an officer on crutches, who happened to be an acquaintance
of each of our guests but was unknown both to me and my other just too elderly male friends.
In an instant we were alone, and alone we remained for certainly half an hour, while every
attention was being paid by our guests to that other. When at last they tore themselves away
and returned, their conversation was wholly confined to their wounded friend's adventures,
and we need not have been there at all, except to pay the bill.

Now it is no fun to me to deceive anyone but myself, and hence I shall not go about with my
arm in a sling and win sympathy and attention to which I am not entitled; but I do appeal to
all the young women to have a little pity on some of us compulsory stay-at-homes. Nothing is
too good for our fighting men. I repeat it. But just a tiny spark of animation might be retained
in the feminine eye when it alights upon an old friend who is debarred from taking arms. Just
a spark, otherwise we shall go into a melancholy decline.

       *       *       *       *       *

Smart Work.

    "Owner gone to the front, friend offers his Wolseley ... £165,
    an extraordinary opportunity."--Advt. in "Autocar."

If we were not confident that we should be wrong in putting upon these words the sinister interpretation
which they invite, we shouldn't envy the advertiser when the owner returns.

       *       *       *       *       *

From verses in Punch, October 21st:--

  "We have made progress near to Berry au Bac,
  And on our right wing there is nothing new."

From the French official report, November 12th:--

    "We have also made some progress around Berry au Bac."

And on the right wing there was nothing new.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FAN.

  Fan, the hunt terrier, runs with the pack,
  A little white bitch with a patch on her back;
  She runs with the pack as her ancestors ran--
  We're an old-fashioned lot here and breed 'em like Fan;
        Round of skull, harsh of coat, game and little and low,
        The same as we bred sixty seasons ago.

  So she's harder than nails, and she's nothing to learn
  From her scarred little snout to her cropped little stern,
  And she hops along gaily, in spite of her size,
  With twenty-four couples of big badger-pyes:
        'Tis slow, but 'tis sure is the old white and grey,
        And 'twill sing to a fox for a whole winter day.

  Last year at Rook's Rough, just as Ben put 'em in,
  'Twas Fan found the rogue who was curled in the whin;
  She pounced at his brush with a drive and a snap,
  "Yip-Yap, boys," she told 'em, "I've found him, Yip-Yap;"
        And they put down their noses and sung to his line
        Away down the valley most tuneful and fine.

  'Twas a point of ten miles and a kill in the dark
  That scared the cock pheasants in Fallowfield Park,
  And into the worry flew Fan like a shot
  And snatched the tit-bit that old Rummage had got;
        Eloop, little Fan with the patch on her back,
        She broke up the fox with the best of the pack.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR THE CHILDREN.

    [The Hospital for Sick Children in Great Ormond Street, where
    many Belgian children are now being cared for, is in very
    urgent need of funds to enable it to maintain its beneficent
    work. The Treasurer will gladly receive and acknowledge any
    subscriptions that may be sent.]

  O generous hearts that freely give,
    Nor heed the lessening of your store,
  So but our well-loved land may live,
    Much have you given--give once more!

  For little children spent with toil,
    For little children worn with pain,
  I ask a gift of healing oil--
    Say, shall I ask for it in vain?

  For, since our days are filled with woe,
    And all the paths are dark and chill,
  This thought may cheer us as we go,
    And bring us light and comfort still;

  This, this may stay our faltering feet,
    And this our mournful minds beguile:--
  We helped some little heart to beat
    And taught some little face to smile.

R. C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MONITORS AT WORK OFF KNOCKE," says The Daily Mail, and by way of reply the Germans knocked
off work.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PATRIOT.

This is a true story. Unless you promise to believe me, it is not much good my going on....
You promise? Very well.

Years ago I bought a pianola. I went into the shop to buy a gramophone record, and I came out
with a pianola--so golden-tongued was the manager. You would think that one could then retire
into private life for a little, but it is only the beginning. There is the music-stool to be
purchased, the library subscription, the tuner's fee (four visits a year, if you please), the
cabinet for the rolls, the man to oil the pedals, the----however, one gets out of the shop
at last. Nor do I regret my venture. It is common talk that my pianola was the chief thing
about me which attracted Celia. "I must marry a man with a pianola," she said ... and there
was I ... and here, in fact, we are. My blessings, then, on the golden tongue of the manager.

Now there is something very charming in a proper modesty about one's attainments, but it is
necessary that the attainments should be generally recognized first. It was admirable in STEPHENSON
to have said (as I am sure he did), when they congratulated him on his first steam-engine,
"Tut-tut, it's nothing;" but he could only say this so long as the others were in a position
to offer the congratulations. In order to place you in that position I must let you know how
extraordinarily well I played the pianola. I brought to my interpretation of different Ops
an élan, a verve, a je ne sais quoi--and several other French words--which were the astonishment
of all who listened to me. But chiefly I was famous for my playing of one piece: "The Charge
of the Uhlans," by KARL BOHM. Others may have seen Venice by moonlight, or heard the Vicar's
daughter recite Little Jim, but the favoured few who have been present when BOHM and I were
collaborating are the ones who have really lived. Indeed, even the coldest professional critic
would have spoken of it as "a noteworthy rendition."

"The Charge of the Uhlans." If you came to see me, you had to hear it. As arranged for the
pianola, it was marked to be played throughout at a lightning pace and with the loudest pedal
on. So one would play it if one wished to annoy the man in the flat below; but a true musician
has, I take it, a higher aim. I disregarded the "FF.'s" and the other sign-posts on the way,
and gave it my own interpretation. As played by me, "The Charge of the Uhlans" became a whole
battle scene. Indeed, it was necessary, before I began, that I should turn to my audience and
describe the scene to them--in the manner, but not in the words, of a Queen's Hall programme:--

"Er--first of all you hear the cavalry galloping past, and then there's a short hymn before
action while they form up, and then comes the charge, and then there's a slow bit while they--er--pick
up the wounded, and then they trot slowly back again. And if you listen carefully to the last
bit you'll actually hear the horses limping."

Something like that I would say; and it might happen that an insufferable guest (who never
got asked again) would object that the hymn part was unusual in real warfare.

"They sang it in this piece anyhow," I would say stiffly, and turn my back on him and begin.

But the war put a stop to music as to many other things. For three months the pianola has not
been played by either of us. There are two reasons for this: first, that we simply haven't
the time now; and secondly, that we are getting all the music we want from the flat below.
The flat below is learning "Tipperary" on one finger. He gets as far as the farewell to Leicester
Square, and then he breaks down; the parting is too much for him.

I was not, then, surprised at the beginning of this month to find Celia looking darkly at the
pianola.

"It's very ugly," she began.

"We can't help our looks," I said in my grandmother's voice.

"A bookcase would be much prettier there."

"But not so tuneful."

"A pianola isn't tuneful if you never play it."

"True," I said.

Celia then became very alluring, and suggested that I might find somebody who would like to
be lent a delightful pianola for a year or so by somebody whose delightful wife had her eye
on a delightful bookcase.

"I might," I said.

"Somebody," said Celia, "who isn't supplied with music from below."

I found John. He was quite pleased about it, and promised to return the pianola when the war
was over.

So on Wednesday it went. I was not sorry, because in its silence it was far from beautiful,
and we wanted another bookcase badly. But on Tuesday evening--its last hours with us--I had
to confess to a certain melancholy. It is sad to part with an old and well-tried friend, particularly
when that friend is almost entirely responsible for your marriage. I looked at the pianola
and then I said to Celia, "I must play it once again."

"Please," said Celia.

"The old masterpiece, I suppose?" I said, as I got it out.

"Do you think you ought to--now? I don't think I want to hear a charge of the Uhlans--beasts;
I want a charge of our own men."

"Art," I said grandly, "knows no frontiers." I suppose this has been said by several people
several times already, but for the moment both Celia and I thought it was rather clever.

So I placed the roll in the pianola, sat down and began to play....

Ah, the dear old tune....

Dash it all!

"What's happened?" said Celia, breaking a silence which had become alarming.

"I must have put it in wrong," I said.

I wound the roll off, put it in again, and tried a second time, pedalling vigorously.

Dead silence....

Hush! A note ... another silence ... and then another note....

I pedalled through to the end. About five notes sounded.

"Celia," I said, "this is wonderful."

It really was wonderful. For the first time in its life my pianola refused to play "The Charge
of the Uhlans." It had played it a hundred times while we were at peace with Germany, but when
we were at war--no!

We had to have a farewell piece. I put in a waltz, and it played it perfectly. Then we said
good-bye to our pianola, feeling a reverence for it which we had never felt before.

       *       *       *       *       *

You don't believe this? Yet you promised you would ... and I still assure you that it is true.
But I admit that the truth is sometimes hard to believe, and the first six persons to whom
I told the story assured me frankly that I was a liar. If one is to be called a liar, one may
as well make an effort to deserve the name.