No. 69.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 22.                                  132

  The Scaligers, by Waldegrave Brewster                       133

  Inedited Ballad on Truth, by K. R. H. Mackenzie             134

  Minor Notes:--Ayot St. Lawrence Church--Johannes
  Secundus--Parnel--Dr. Johnson--The King's
  Messengers, by the Rev. W. Adams--Parallel Passages--Cause
  of Rarity of William IV.'s Copper Coinage--Burnett--Coleridge's
  Opinion of Defoe--Miller's
  "Philosophy of Modern History"--Anticipations of
  Modern Ideas or Inventions--"Sun, stand thou still
  upon Gibeon!"--Langley's Polidore Vergile, &c.              135

  QUERIES:--

  Bibliographical Queries                                     138

  Shakspeare's "Antony and Cleopatra"                         139

  Green's "Groathsworth of Witte," by J. O. Halliwell         140

  Minor Queries:--Fronte Capillatâ--Prayer of Bishop
  of Nantes--Advantage of a Bad Ear--Imputed Letters
  of Sullustius or Sallustius--Rev. W. Adams--Mr.
  Beard, Vicar of Greenwich--Goddard's History
  of Lynn--Sir Andrew Chadwick--Sangaree--King
  John at Lincoln--Canes lesi--Headings of Chapters
  in English Bibles--Abbot Eustacius and Angodus de
  Lindsei--Oration against Demosthenes--Pun--Sonnet
  (query by Milton?)--Medal given to Howard--Withers'
  Devil at Sarum--Election of a Pope--Battle
  in Wilshire--Colonel Fell--Tennyson's "In
  Memoriam"--Magnum Sedile--Ace of Diamonds:
  the Earl of Cork--Closing of Rooms on account of
  Death--Standfast's Cordial Comforts--"Predeceased"
  and "Designed"--Lady Fights at Atherton, &c.                140

  REPLIES:--

  The Episcopal Mitre and Papal Tiara, by A. Rich,
  Jun., &c.                                                   144

  Dryden's Essay upon Satire, by J. Crossley                  146

  Foundation-stone of St. Mark's at Venice                    147

  Histoire des Sévarambes                                     147

  Touching for the Evil, by C. H. Cooper                      148

  Replies to Minor Queries:--Forged Papal Bulls--
  Obeism--Pillgarlick--Hornbooks--Bacon--Lachrymatories
  --Scandal against Queen Elizabeth--Meaning
  of Cefn--Portrait of Archbishop Williams--Sir
  Alexander Cumming--Pater-noster Tackling--Welsh
  Words for Water--Early Culture of the
  Imagination--Venville--Cum Grano Salis--Hoops--Cranmer's
  Descendants--Shakspeare's Use of the
  Word "Captious"--Boiling to Death--Dozen of
  Bread--Friday Weather--Saint Paul's Clock--Lunardi--Outline
  in Painting--Handbell before a Corpse--Brandon
  the Juggler--"Words are Men's Daughters"--"Fine
  by degrees, and beautifully less"--"The
  Soul's dark Cottage"--"Beauty Retire"--Mythology
  of the Stars--Simon Bache--Thesaurarius
  Hospitii--Winifreda--Queries on Costume--Antiquitas
  Sæcula Juventus Mundi--Lady Bingham--Proclamation
  of Langholme Fair, &c.                                      149

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                      158

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                158

  Notices to Correspondents                                   158

  Advertisements                                              159

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

THE ROLLIAD.

(22d Ed., 1812.)

Finding that my copy of The Rolliad ("NOTES AND QUERIES," Vol. ii., p. 373.) contains fuller
information regarding the authors than has yet appeared in your valuable periodical, I forward
you a transcript of the MS. notes, most of which are certified by the initial of Dr Lawrence,
from whose copy all of them were taken by the individual who gave me the volume.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

    Wallington, Morpeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Advertisement. Dr. Lawrence.
  Advertisement to 4th Edition. Do.
  Explanation of Frontispiece and Title. Do.
  Dedication. Do.
  Rollo Family. E. T. and R. "This was the piece first published, and the
      origin of all that followed."
  Extract from Dedication. Fitzpatrick. "The title of these verses gave
      rise to the vehicle of Criticisms on The Rolliad."--L.

Criticisms.

No. 1. Ellis. The passage in p. 2, from "His first exploit" to "what it loses in sublimity,"
"inserted by Dr. L. to preserve the parody of Virgil, and break this number with one more poetical
passage."--L.

No. 2. Ellis. "This vehicle of political satire not proving immediately impressive, was here
abandoned by its original projector, who did not take it up again till the second part."--L.

  No.  3. Dr. Lawrence. Verses on Mr. Dundas by G. Ellis.
       4. Richardson.
       5. Fitzpatrick.
       6. Dr. Lawrence.
       7. Do.
       8. Do.
       9. Fitzpatrick.
      10. Richardson.
      11. Do.
      12. Fitzpatrick.
      13. Dr. Lawrence.
      14. Do.

{130}

The French Inscriptions by Ellis.

PART II.

  No. 1. Ellis
      2. Do.
      3. Richardson.
      4. Do.
      5. Fitzpatrick.
      6. R----d.
      7. Dr. Lawrence.

The passage commencing "The learned Mr. Daniel Barrington," to "drawing a long bow," "inserted
by R----d under the verbal suggestions of Dr. Lawrence."

  The Rose. Dr. Lawrence.
  The Lyars. Fitzpatrick.
  Margaret Nicholson. Lines 2-12, by Dr. Lawrence; the rest by A. (Adair.)
  Charles Jenkinson. Ellis.
  Jekyll. Lines 73. to 100., "inserted by Tickle;" 156. to end, "altered
      and enlarged by Tickle;" the rest by Lord J. Townsend. (At the end of
      Jekyll is the note which I have already sent to the "NOTES AND
      QUERIES," Vol. ii, p. 373.--W. C. T.)

Probationary Odes.

  Preliminary Discourse. G. Ellis or Tickle. Q.
  Thoughts on Ode-writing. Tickle.
  Recommendatory Testimonies. Tickle. "I believe all the Testimonies are
      his, unless the last be by Lord John Townsend."--L.
  Warton's Ascension. Tickle.
  Laureat Election. Richardson. "The first suggestion of the vehicle for
      Probationary Odes for the Laureatship came (as I understood, for I
      was not present) from the Rev. Dudley Bate."--L.
  Irregular Ode. Tickle.
  Ode on New Year. Ellis.
  Ode No.  3. Dudley Bate.
           4. Richardson.
           6. Anonymous, communicated by Tickle.
           7. Anonymous.
           8. "Brummell." "Some slight corrections were made by L., and one
              or two lines supplied by others."--L.
           9. Tickle. "The first draft of this ode was by Stratford
              Canning, a merchant in the city; but of his original
              performance little or nothing remains except five or six
              lines in the third Stanza."--L.
          10. "Pearce, (I believe) Brother-in-law of Dudley Bate."--L.
          11. "Boscawen, (I believe) afterwards of the Victualling Office,
              communicated by Tickle."--L.
          12. Lord John Townsend,--"Three or four lines in the last stanza,
              and perhaps one or two in some of the former, were inserted
              by Tickle."--L.
          13. "Anonymous, sent by the Post."--L.
          14. "The Rev. O'Byrne.
             'This political Parson's a *B'liever! most odd! He b'lieves
                 he's a Poet, but don't b'lieve in God!'--Sheridan.
                  * Dr. O'B. pronounces the word believe in this manner."
          15. Fitzpatrick.
          16. Dr. Lawrence.
          17. Genl. Burgoyne.
          18. R----d.
          19. Richardson.
          20. Ellis.
          21. Address. Dr. Lawrence. For "William York" read "William
              Ebor."
              Pindaric Ode. Dr Lawrence.
          22. The Prose and Proclamation, "by Tickle or Richardson."--L.
  Table of Instructions. Tickle or Richardson.

Political Miscellanies.

  To the Public. R----d.
  Odes to W. Pitt. Fitzpatrick.
  My Own Translation, prefixed to Ode 2nd. Dr.   Lawrence.
  The Statesmen. R----d.
  Rondeau. Dr. Lawrence.
  In the third Rondeau, for "pining in his spleen" read "moving honest
      spleen."--L. All the Rondeaus are by Dr. L.
  The Delavaliad. Richardson.
  Epigrams. Tickle and Richardson.
  Lord Graham's Diary. "Tickle, I believe."--L.
  Lord Mulgrave's Essays. Ellis.
  Anecdotes of Pitt. G. Ellis.
  A Tale. Sheridan.
  Morals. Richardson.
  Dialogue. Lord John Townsend.
  Prettymania.

Epigrams.

  No.  1. Dr. Lawrence.
     "   32. Do.
     "   33. Do.
     "   37. Do.

Foreign Epigrams.

  No.  1. Ellis.
     "    2. Rev. O'Byrne.
     "    3. Do.
     "    4. Do.
     "    5. Do.
     "    6. Dr. Lawrence.
     "    7. Do.
     "    8. Do.
     "    9. Do.
     "   10. Do.
     "   11. Tickle.
     "   12. Do.

"Most of the English Epigrams unmarked are by Tickle, some by Richardson, D. Bate, R----d,
and others."--L.

  Advertisement Extraordinary. Dr. Lawrence.
  Paragraph Office. Do.
  Pitt and Pinetti. "Ellis, I believe."--L.
  The Westminster Guide. Genl. Burgoyne.
  A new Ballad. Lord J. Townsend or Tickle.
  {131}
  Epigrams on Sir Elijah Impey. R----d.
  ---- by Mr. Wilberforce. Ellis.
  Original Letter. A. (Adair.)
  Congratulatory Ode. Courtenay.
  Ode to Sir Elijah Impey. "Anonymous--I believe L. J. Townsend."--L.
  Song, to tune "Let the Sultan Saladin." R----d.
  A new Song, "Billy's Budget." Fitzpatrick.
  Epigrams. R----d.
  Ministerial Facts. "Ld. J. Townsend, I believe."--L.
  Journal of the Right Hon. H. Dundas.
      To end of March 7th. Tierney.
              March 9th and 10th. Dr. Lawrence.
              March 11th. Tierney.
              March 12th and 13th. C. Grey.
              March 14th. Tierney.
     "This came out in numbers, or rather in continuations, in the
         Newspaper."--L.
  Incantation. Fitzpatrick.
  Translations. "Tickle, Richardson, R----d, and others."--L.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Memoranda" &c., respecting The Rolliad, at Vol. ii., p. 439., recalled to my recollection
a "Note" made several years back; but the "Query" was, where to find that Note? However, I
made a mental note, "when found," to forward it to you, and by the merest chance it has turned
up, or rather, out; for it fell from within an old "Common Place Book," when--I must not take
credit for being in search of it, but, in fact, in quest of another note. Should you consider
it likely to interest either your correspondents, contributors, or readers, you are much welcome
to it; and in that case, to have troubled you with this will not be regretted by

C. W.

    Stoke, Bucks.

The Rolliad.--(Memorandum in Sir James Mackintosh's copy of that work.)

"Bombay, 23rd June, 1804.

"Before I left London in February last, I received from my old friend, T. Courtenay, Esq.,
M.P., notes, of which the following is a copy, giving account of the Authors of The Rolliad,
and of the series of Political Satires which followed it:--

  Extract from Dedication. Fitzpatrick.
  Nos. 1. 2. G. Ellis.
  No. 3. Dr. Lawrence.
  No. 4. J. Richardson.
  No. 5. Fitzpatrick.
  Nos. 6. 7. 8. Dr. Lawrence.
  No. 9. Fitzpatrick.
  Nos. 10. 11. J. Richardson.
  No. 12. Fitzpatrick.
  Nos. 13. 14. Dr. Lawrence.

          PART II.

  Nos. 1. 2. G. Ellis
  Nos. 3. 4. J. Richardson.
  No. 5. Fitzpatrick.
  No. 6. Read.
  No. 7. Dr. Lawrence.

  Political Eclogues.

  Rose. Fitzpatrick.
  The Lyars. Do.
  Margaret Nicholson. R. Adair.
  C. Jenkinson. G. Ellis.
  Jekyll, Lord J. Townsend and Tickell.

  Probationary Odes.

  No.  1. Tickell.
       2. G. Ellis.
       3. H. B. Dudley.
       4. J. Richardson.
       5. J. Ellis. ?G.
       6. Unknown.
       7. (Mason's). Do.
       8. Brummell.
       9. Sketched by Canning, the Eton Boy, finished by Tickell.
      10. Pearce. ?
      11. Boscawen.
      12. Lord J. Townsend.
      13. Unknown. Mr. C. believes it to be Mrs. Debbing, wife of Genl. D.
      14. Rev. Mr. O'Byrne. Read.
      19. Richardson.
      20. G. Ellis.
      21. Do.
      22. Do.

"If ever my books should escape this obscure corner, the above memorandum will interest some
curious collector.

"JAMES MACKINTOSH.

"The above list, as far as it relates to Richardson, is confirmed by his printed Life, from
which I took a note at Lord J. Townsend's four days ago.

"J. MACKINTOSH. 18 Nov., 1823."

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE ON PALAMON AND ARCITE.

It has probably often been remarked as somewhat curious, that Chaucer, in describing the arrival
of Palamon and Arcite at Athens, mentions the day of the week on which it takes place:

 "And in this wise, these lordes all and some,
  Ben on the Sonday to the citee come," &c.

Nothing seems to depend on their coming on one day of the week rather than on another. In reality,
however, this apparently insignificant circumstance is astrologically connected with the issue
of the contest. Palamon, who on the morning of the following day makes his prayer to Venus,
succeeds at last in winning Emelie, though Arcite, who commends himself to Mars, conquers him
in the tournament. The prayers of both are granted, because both address themselves to their
tutelary deities at hours over which these deities respectively preside. In order to understand
this, we must call to mind the astrological explanation {132} of the names of the days of the
week. According to Dio Cassius, the Egyptians divided the day into twenty-four hours, and supposed
each of them to be in an especial manner influenced by some one of the planets. The first hour
of the day had the prerogative of giving its name, or rather that of the planet to which it
was subject, to the whole day. Thus, for instance, Saturn presides over the first hour of the
day, which is called by his name; Jupiter over the second, and so on; the Moon, as the lowest
of the planets, presiding over the seventh. Again, the eighth is subject to Saturn, and the
same cycle recommences at the fifteenth and at the twenty-second hours. The twenty-third hour
is therefore subject to Jupiter, and the twenty-fourth to Mars. Consequently, the first hour
of the following day is subject to the sun, and the day itself is accordingly dies Solis, or
Sunday. Precisely in the same way it follows that the next day will be dies Lunæ; and so on
throughout the week. To this explanation it has been objected that the names of the days are
more ancient than the division of the day into twenty-four parts; and Joseph Scaliger has attempted
to derive the names of the days from those of the planets, without reference to this method
of division. His explanation, however, which is altogether geometrical, inasmuch as it depends
on the properties of the heptagon, seems quite unsatisfactory, though Selden appears to have
been inclined to adopt it. At any rate, the account of the matter given by Dio Cassius has
generally been accepted.

To return to Chaucer: Theseus, as we know, had erected in the place where the tournament was
to be held three oratories, dedicated to Mars, to Venus, and to Diana. On the day after their
arrival, namely, on Monday, Palamon and Arcite offered their prayers to Venus and Mars respectively,
and Emelie, in like manner, to Diana. Of Palamon we are told that--

 "He rose, to wenden on his pilgrimage
  Unto the blisful Citherea benigne"

two hours before it was day, and that he repaired to her temple "in hire hour."

In the third hour afterwards,

 "Up rose the sonne, and up rose Emelie
  And to the temple of Diane gan hie."

Her prayer also was favourably heard by the deity to whom it was addressed; the first hour
of Monday (the natural day beginning at sunrise) being subject to Luna or Diana. The orisons
of Palamon were offered two hours earlier, namely, in the twenty-third hour of Sunday, which
is similarly subject to Venus, the twenty-fourth or last hour belonging to Mercury, the planet
intermediate between Venus and the Moon. It is on this account that Palamon is said to have
prayed to Venus in her hour.

Arcite's vows were made later in the day than those of Palamon and Emelie. We are told that

 "The nexte hour of Mars following this,"

(namely after Emelie's return from the temple of Diana)

 "Arcite unto the temple walked is
  Of fierce Mars."

The first hour of Mars is on Monday, the fourth hour of the day; so that as the tournament
took place in April or May, Arcite went to the temple of Mars about eight or nine o'clock.

It may be well to explain the word "inequal" in the lines--

 "The thridde hour inequal that Palamon
  Began to Venus temple for to gon,
  Up rose the sonne, and up rose Emelie."

In astrology, the heavens are divided into twelve houses, corresponding to a division of the
ecliptic into twelve equal parts, the first of which is measured from the point of the ecliptic
which is on the horizon and about to rise above it, at the instant which the astrologer has
to consider, namely, the instant of birth in the case of a nativity, or that in which a journey
or any other enterprise is undertaken.

The hours inequal here spoken of similarly correspond to a division of the ecliptic into twenty-four
parts, so that each house comprehends the portions of the ecliptic belonging to two of these
hours, provided the division into houses is made at sunrise, when the first hour commences.
It is obvious that these astrological hours will be of unequal length, as equal portions of
the ecliptic subtend unequal angles at the pole of the equator.

With regard to the time of year at which the tournament takes place, there seems to be an inconsistency.
Palamon escapes from prison on the 3rd of May, and is discovered by Theseus on the 5th. Theseus
fixes "this day fifty wekes" for the rendezvous at Athens, so that the tournament seems to
fall in April. Chaucer, however, says that--

 "Gret was the feste in Athenes thilke day,
  And eke the lusty seson of that May
  Made every wight to be, in swiche pleasance," &c.

Why the 3rd of May is particularly mentioned as the time of Palamon's escape, I cannot tell:
there is probably some astrological reason. The mixture of astrological notions with mythology
is curious: "the pale Saturnus the colde" is once more a dweller on Olympus, and interposes
to reconcile Mars and Venus. By his influence Arcite is made to perish after having obtained
from Mars the fulfilment of his prayer--

 "Yeve me the victorie, I axe thee no more."

[epsilon].

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

"Snail, Snail, come out of your Hole."--In Surrey, and most probably in other counties where
{133} shell-snails abound, children amuse themselves by charming them with a chant to put forth
their horns, of which I have only heard the following couplet, which is repeated until it has
the desired effect, to the great amusement of the charmer.

 "Snail, snail, come out of your hole,
  Or else I'll beat you as black as a coal."

It is pleasant to find that this charm is not peculiar to English children, but prevails in
places as remote from each other as Naples and Silesia.

The Silesian rhyme is:

 "Schnecke, schnecke, schnürre!
  Zeig mir dein viere,
  Wenn mir dein viere nicht zeigst,
  Schmeisz ich dich in den Graben,
  Fressen dich die Raben;"

which may be thus paraphrased:

 "Snail, snail, slug-slow,
  To me thy four horns show;
  If thou dost not show me thy four,
  I will throw thee out of the door,
  For the crow in the gutter,
  To eat for bread and butter."

In that amusing Folk's-book of Neapolitan childish tales, the Pentamerone of the noble Count-Palatine
Cavalier Giovan-Battista Basile, in the seventeenth tale, entitled "La Palomma," we have a
similar rhyme:

 "Jesce, jesce, corna;
  Ça mammata te scorna,
  Te scorna 'ncoppa lastrico,
  Che fa lo figlio mascolo."

of which the sense may probably be:

 "Peer out! Peer out! Put forth your horns!
  At you your mother mocks and scorns;
  Another son is on the stocks,
  And you she scorns, at you she mocks."

S. W. SINGER.

The Evil Eye.--This superstition is still prevalent in this neighbourhood (Launceston). I have
very recently been informed of the case of a young woman, in the village of Lifton, who is
lying hopelessly ill of consumption, which her neighbours attribute to her having been "overlooked"
(this is the local phrase by which they designate the baleful spell of the evil eye). An old
woman in this town is supposed to have the power of "ill-wishing" or bewitching her neighbours
and their cattle, and is looked on with much awe in consequence.

H. G. T.

"Millery! Millery! Dousty-poll!" &c.--I am told by a neighbour of a cruel custom among the
children in Somersetshire, who, when they have caught a certain kind of large white moth, which
they call a miller, chant over it this uncouth ditty:--

 "Millery! Millery! Dousty-poll!
  How many sacks hast thou stole?"

And then, with boyish recklessness, put the poor creature to death for the imagined misdeeds
of his human namesake.

H. G. T.

"Nettle in, Dock out."--Sometime since, turning over the leaves of Clarke's Chaucer, I stumbled
on the following passage in "Troilus and Cressida," vol. ii. p. 104.:--

 "Thou biddest me that I should love another
  All freshly newe, and let Creseidé go,
  It li'th not in my power levé brother,
  And though I might, yet would I not do so:
  But can'st thou playen racket to and fro,
  Nettle' in Dock out, now this now that, Pandare?
  Now foulé fall her for thy woe that care."

I was delighted to find the charm for a nettle sting, so familiar to my childish ear, was as
old as Chaucer's time, and exceedingly surprised to stumble on the following note:--

    "This appears to be a proverbial expression implying inconstancy; but
    the origin of the phrase is unknown to all the commentators on our
    poet."

If this be the case, Chaucer's commentators may as well be told that children in Northumberland
use friction by a dock-leaf as the approved remedy for the sting of a nettle, or rather the
approved charm; for the patient, while rubbing in the dock-juice, should keep repeating,--

 "Nettle in, dock out,
  Dock in, nettle out,
  Nettle in, dock out,
  Dock rub nettle out."

The meaning is therefore obvious. Troilus is indignant at being recommended to forget this
Cressida for a new love, just as a child cures a nettle-sting by a dock-leaf. I know not whether
you will deem this trifle worth a corner in your valuable and amusing "NOTES."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SCALIGERS.

 "Lo primo tuo rifugio e 'l primo ostello
    Sarà la cortesia del gran Lombardo,
  Che 'n su la Scala porta il santo uccello."
                  Dante, Paradiso, xvii. 70.

The Scaligers are well known, not only as having held the lordship of Verona for some generations,
but also as having been among the friends of Dante in his exile, no mean reputation in itself;
and, at a later period, as taking very high rank among the first scholars of their day. To
which of them the passage above properly belongs--whether to Can Grande, or his brother Bartolommeo,
or even his father Alberto, commentators are by no means agreed. The question is argued more
largely than conclusively, both in the notes to Lombardi's edition, and also in Ugo Foscolo's
Discorso nel testo di Dante.

Perhaps the following may be a contribution to the evidence in favour of Can Grande. After
{134} saying, in a letter, in which he professes to give the history and origin of his family,--

    "Prisca omnium familiarum Scaligeræ stirpis insignia sunt, aut Scala
    singularis, aut Canes utrinque scalæ innitentes."

Joseph Scaliger adds--

    "Denique principium Veronensium progenitores eadem habuerunt insignia:
    donec in eam familiam Alboinus et Canis Magnus Aquilam imperii cum
    Scala primum ab Henrico VII^o, deinde à Ludovico Bavaro acceptam nobis
    reliquerunt."

Alboinus, however, who received this grant upon being made a Lieutenant of the Empire, and
having the Signory of Verona made hereditary in his family, only bore the eagle "in quadrante
scuti."

    "Sed Canis Magnus, cum eidem à Cæsare Ludovico Bavaro idem privilegium
    confirmatum esset, totum scutum Aquilâ occupavit, subjectâ Alitis
    pedibus Scalâ."

Can Grande, then, was surely the first who carried the "santo uccello" in su la Scala; and
his epithet of Grande would also agree best with Dante's words, as neither his father nor brothers
seem to have had the same claim to it.

I would offer a farther remark about this same title or epithet Can Grande, and the origin
of the scala or ladder as a charge upon the shield or coat of this family. Cane would at first
sight appear to be a designation borrowed from the animal of that name. There would be parallels
enough in Italy and elsewhere, as the Ursini, Lewis the Lion (VIII. of France), our own Coeur
de Lion, and Harold Harefoot. Dante, too, refers to him under the name "Il Veltro," Inferno,
canto 1. l. 101. But Joseph Scaliger, in the letter to which I referred before, gives the following
account of it:--

    "Nomen illi fuerat Franscisco, à sacro lavacro, Cani à gentilitate,
    Magno à merito rerum gestarum. Neque enim Canis ab illo latranti
    animali dictus est, ut recte monet Jovius, sed quod linguâ Windorum,
    unde principes Veronenses oriundos vult, Cahan idem est, quod linguâ
    Serviana Kral, id est Rex, aut Princeps. Nam in gente nostrâ multi
    fuerunt Canes, Mastini, Visulphi Guelphi."--P. 17.

This letter consists of about 58 pages, and stands first in the edition of 1627. It is addressed
"ad Janum Dousam," and was written to vindicate his family from certain indignities which he
conceived had been put upon it. Sansovino and Villani, it appears, had referred its origin
to Mastin II., "qui," to use Scaliger's version of the matter,--

    "Qui primus dictator populi Veronensis perpetuus creatus est, quem et
    auctorem nobilitatis Scaligeræ et Scalarum antea fabrum
    impudentissime nugantur hostes virtutis majorum nostrorum."

It was bad enough to ascribe their origin to so recent a date, but to derive it from a mere
mechanic was more than our author's patience could endure. Accordingly he is not sparing of
invective against those who so disparage his race.

Vappa, nebulo, and similar terms, are freely applied to their characters; invidia, [Greek:
kakoêtheia], &c., to their motives. The following is a specimen of the way he handles them:--

    "Dantes Poëta illustrissimum Christianissimorum Regum Franciæ genus à
    laniis Parisiensibus deducit, utique tam vere, quam ille tenebrio
    nostrum à scalarum fabro: quas mirum, ni auctor generis in suspendium
    eorum parabat, quos vaticinabatur illustri nobilitate suæ
    obtrectaturos."

Now the charge of a ladder upon their shield was certainly borne by the several branches of
this family long before any of them became masters of Verona; and I should suggest that it
originated in some brilliant escalade of one of the first members of it. Thus, of course, it
would remind us all of perhaps the earliest thing of the kind--I mean the shield and bearings
of Eteoclus before Thebes:

 "[Greek: Eschêmatistai d' aspis ou smikron tropon;]
  [Greek: Anêr d' hoplitês klimakos prosambaseis]
  [Greek: Steichei pros echthrôn purgon, ekpersai thelôn.]"
                                  Sept. c. Thebas, 461.

WALDEGRAVE BREWSTER.

    H----n, Jan. 28. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

INEDITED BALLAD ON TRUTH.

I send you herewith a copy of an ancient ballad which I found this day while in search of other
matters. I have endeavoured to explain away the strange orthography, and I have conjecturally
supplied the last line. The ballad is unhappily imperfect. I trust that abler antiquaries than
myself will give their attention to this fragmentary poem.

             "A BALADE OF TROUTHE.

          (Harl. MSS. No. 48. folio 92.)

 "What more poyson . than ys venome.
  What more spytefull . than ys troozte.[1]
  Where shall hattred . sonere come.
  Than oone anothyr . that troozte showthe.
  Undoyng dysplesure . no love growthe.                          5
  And to grete[2] men . in especyall.
  Troozte dare speke . lest[3] of all.

 "And troozte . all we be bound to.
  And troozte . most men now dothe fle.[4]
  What be we then . that so do.                                 10
  Be we untrewe . troozte saythe ee.[5]
  But he y^t tellethe troozte . what ys he.
  A besy foole . hys name shalle ronge.[6]
  Or else he hathe an euyle tonge.

  {135}
 "May a tong . be trew and evyle.                               15
  Trootze ys good . and evyle ys navtze.[7]
  God ys trootze . and navzt ys y^e devyle.
  Ego sum veritas . o^r[8] lord tavzt.[9]
  At whyche word . my conceyt lavzt.[10]
  To se[11] our Lorde . yff[12] foly in hym be.                 20
  To use troozt . that few doth but he.

 "To medyle w^t trouthe[13] . no small game.
  For trouthe told . of tyms ys shent.
  And trouthe known . many doth blame.
  When trouthe ys tyrned . from trew intent.                    25
  Yet trouthe ys trouthe . trewly ment.[14]
  But now what call they trouthe . trow ye.
  Trowthe ys called colored honestè.

 "Trouthe . ys honest without coloure.
  Trouthe . shameth not in no condycyon.                        30
  Of hymself . without a trespasowre.
  By myst and knowne . of evyle condycyon.
  But of trouthe thys ys y^e conclusyon.
  Surely good ordre there ys brokyne.
  Where trouthe may not . nor dare be spokyne.[15]              35

 "Trouthe many tyms ys cast.
  Out of credence . by enformacyon.
  Yet trouthe crepthe[16] out at last.
  And ovyr mastrythe cavylacyon.[17]
  That I besech Cryst . every nacyon.                           40
  May use trouthe . to God and man.
  *  *  that he * not * syn *  *  ."
      *    *    *    *    *    *

I would fill up the lacuna--

 "Now that he do not syn . we can."

Perhaps, I repeat, some more able antiquaries will give their attention to this, and satisfy
me on the points of punctuation, date, &c.

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

[Footnote 1: Truth, I presume, is meant, though it does not seem to agree with the context,
which is pure nonsense in its present condition.]

[Footnote 2: Great.]

[Footnote 3: Least.]

[Footnote 4: Flee.]

[Footnote 5: Yea.]

[Footnote 6: Ring, I fancy.]

[Footnote 7: Naught.]

[Footnote 8: Our.]

[Footnote 9: Taught.]

[Footnote 10: Laughed.]

[Footnote 11: See.]

[Footnote 12: If.]

[Footnote 13: Here the orthography changes.]

[Footnote 14: Meant.]

[Footnote 15: I think there must be some allusion here, which can only be arrived at by knowing
the date of its composition.]

[Footnote 16: An elision for creepeth; possibly an intermediate etymological state of creeps.]

[Footnote 17: From "to cavil."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Ayot St. Lawrence Church (Vol. iii., pp. 39. 102.). Ayot St. Lawrence, Herts, is another deserted
church, like that of Landwade,--in fact a ruin, with its monuments disgracefully exposed. I
was so astonished at seeing it in 1850, that I would now ask the reason of its having been
allowed to fall into such distress, and how any one could have had the power to build the present
Greek one, instead of restoring its early Decorated neighbour. I did not observe the 2 ft.
3 in. effigy alluded to in Arch. Journ. iii. 239., but particularly noted the elegant sculpture
on the chancel arch capital.

I would suggest to Mr. Kelke, that the incumbents of parishes should keep a separate register,
recording all monuments, &c. as they are put up, as existing, or as found in MS. church notes,
or published in county histories. In the majority of parishes the trouble of so doing would
be trifling, and to many a pleasant occupation.

I will first extract Parnel's description, and then the passage of Secundus; to which, I suppose,
Dr. Johnson referred.

 "This to my friend--and when a friend inspires,
  My silent harp its master's hand requires,
  Shakes off the dust, and makes these rocks resound,
  For fortune placed me in unfertile ground;
  Far from the joys that with my soul agree,
  From wit, from learning--far, oh far, from thee!
  Here moss-grown trees expand the smallest leaf,
  Here half an acre's corn is half a sheaf.
  Here hills with naked heads the tempest meet,
  Rocks at their side, and torrents at their feet;
  Or lazy lakes, unconscious of a flood,
  Whose dull brown Naiads ever sleep in mud."

Secundus in his first epistle of his first book (edit. Paris, p. 103.), thus writes:--

 "Me retinet salsis infausta Valachria terris,
    Oceanus tumidis quam vagus ambit aquis.
  Nulla ubi vox avium, pelagi strepit undique murmur,
    Coelum etiam largâ desuper urget aquâ.
  Flat Boreas, dubiusque Notus, flat frigidus Eurus,
    Felices Zephyri nil ubi juris habent.
  Proque tuis ubi carminibus, Philomena canora,
    Turpis in obscoenâ rana coaxat aquâ."

VARRO.

The King's Messengers, by the Rev. W. Adams.--Ought it not to be remarked, in future editions
of this charming and highly poetical book (which has lately been translated into Swedish),
that it is grounded on one of the "examples" occurring in Barlaam and Josaphat?"

In the third or fourth century, an Indian prince names Josaphat was converted to Christianity
by a holy hermit called Barlaam. This subject was afterwards treated of by some Alexandrian
priest, probably in the sixth century, in a beautiful tale, legend, or spiritual romance, in
Greek, and in a style of great ease, beauty, warmth, and colouring. The work was afterwards
attributed to Johannes Damascenus, who died in 760. In this half-Asiatic Christian prose epic,
Barlaam employs a number of even then ancient folk-tales and fables, spiritually interpreted,
in Josaphat's conversion. It is on the fifth of these "examples" that Mr. Adams has built his
richly-glittering fairy palace.

Barlaam and Josaphat was translated into almost {136} every European dialect during the Middle
Age, sometimes in verse, but usually in prose, and became an admired folk-book. Among the versions
lately recovered I may mention one into Old-Swedish (a shorter one, published in my Old-Swedish
Legendarium, and a longer one, not yet published); and one in Old-Norwegian, from a vellum
MS. of the thirteenth century, shortly to appear in Christiania.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

    Stockholm.

Parallel Passages.--Under "Parallel Passages" (Vol. ii., p. 263.) there occur in two paragraphs--"There
is an acre sown with royal seed," concluding with "living like gods, to die like men," from
Jeremy Taylor's Holy Dying; and from Francis Beaumont--

 "Here's an acre sown indeed
  With the richest royalest seed.
      .    .    .    .    .    .
  Though gods they were, as men they died."

Which of these twain borrowed the "royal seed" from the other, is a manner of little moment;
but the correspondence of living as gods, and dying as men, both undoubtedly taken from Holy
Scripture; the phrase occurring in either Testament: "I have said, Ye are gods ... But ye shall
die like men" (Psalm lxxxii. 6, 7.); quoted by our Saviour (John, x. 34.): "Jesus answered
them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are Gods?"

J. G. M.

    Hallamshire.

Cause of Rarity of William IV.'s Copper Coinage.--The copper coinage of William IV. is become
so scarce, that possibly a doubt may some day arise, whether any but a very limited issue of
it was ever made; it may be well, therefore, to introduce a note on the cause of its disappearance,
while the subject is comparatively recent.

When the copper coins of the last reign appeared, a slight tinge in the colour of the metal
excited the suspicion of those accustomed to examine such things, that it contained gold, which
proved to be the fact; hence their real value was greater than that for which they passed current,
and they were speedily collected and melted down by manufacturers, principally, I believe,
as an alloy to gold, whereby every particle of that metal which they contained was turned to
account. I have been told that various Birmingham establishments had agents in different parts
of the country, appointed to collect this coinage.

R. C. H.

Burnet.--In the list of conflicting judgments on Burnet, quoted by your correspondents (Vol.
i., pp. 40. 120. 181. 341. 493.), I find no reference to the opinion of his contemporary, Bishop
Nicolson. That writer takes a somewhat partial view of the character and merits of the historian,
and canvasses, by anticipation, much of what has been urged against him by our more modern
critics. But, as the weight of authorities already cited appears to militate against Burnet,
I am induced to send you some of Bishop Nicolson's remarks, for the sake of those readers who
may not have immediate access to them. I quote from his English Historical Library, 2nd edition,
p. 119.:

    "In the months of December and January in the year following (1680),
    the historian (G. Burnet) had the thanks of both Houses of Parliament
    for what he had already done; and was desired to proceed to the
    finishing of the whole work, which was done accordingly. This historian
    gives a punctual account of all the affairs of the Reformation, from
    its first beginning in the reign of Henry VIII., till it was finally
    completed and settled by Queen Elizabeth, A.D. 1559. And the whole is
    penned in such a masculine style as becomes an historian, and such as
    is this author's property in all his writings. The collection of
    records which he gives in the conclusion of each volume are good
    vouchers of the truth of all he delivers (as such) in the body of his
    history; and are much more perfect than could reasonably be expected,
    after the pains taken, in Queen Mary's days, to suppress everything
    that carried the marks of the Reformation upon it. The work has had so
    much justice done it, as to meet with a general acceptance abroad, and
    to be translated into most of the European languages; insomuch that
    even the most piquant of the author's enemies allow it to have a
    reputation firmly and deservedly established. Indeed, some of the
    French writers have cavilled at it; but the most eminent of them (M.
    Varillas and M. Le Grand) have received due correction from the author
    himself."

HENRY H. BREEN.

    St. Lucia, Dec. 1850.

Coleridge's Opinion of Defoe.--Wilson, in his Memoirs of the life and Times of Defoe, vol.
ii. p. 205., having quoted the opinion of the Editor of Cadell's edition of Robinson Crusoe,--"that
Defoe wanted many of those qualities, both of mind and manner, which fitted Steele and Addison
to be the inimitable arbitri elegantiarum of English society, there can be no doubt,"--Coleridge
wrote in the margin of his copy, "I doubt this, particularly in respect to Addison, and think
I could select from Defoe's writings a volume equal in size to Addison's collected papers,
little inferior in wit and humour, and greatly superior in vigor of style and thought."

Ts.

Miller's "Philosophy of Modern History."--In the memoir, chiefly autobiographical, prefixed
to the last edition (published by Mr. Bohn, 1848-9) of this most able and interesting work,
we find the following words, p. xxxv.:

    "In the preceding period of my lecturing, I collected a moderate
    audience [seldom exceeding ten persons] in the Law School [his friend,
    Alexander Knox, being always one], sufficient to encourage me, or at
    least to permit me, to persevere, but not to animate my exertions by
    publicity. But as I was approaching the sixteenth century, the number
    of my hearers {137} increased so much, that I was encouraged to remove
    to the Examination Hall, from which time my lectures attracted a large
    portion of public attention, strangers forming a considerable portion
    of the auditory."

It is worthy of remark, in connexion with this production of a highly-gifted scholar and divine,
whose name does honour to Trinity College, Dublin, that Dr. Sullivan's Lectures on the Constitution
and Laws of England, which have since deservedly acquired so much fame, were delivered in presence
of only three individuals, Dr. Michael Kearney and two others--surely no great encouragement
to Irish genius! In fact, the Irish long seemed unconscious of the merits of two considerable
works by sons of their own university,--Hamilton's Conic Sections and Sullivan's Lectures;
and hesitated to praise, until the incense of fame arose to one from the literary altars of
Cambridge, and an English judge, Sir William Blackstone, authorised the other.

In the memoir to which I have referred, we find a complete list of the many publications which
Dr. Miller, "distinguished for his services in theology and literature," sent forth from the
press. We are likewise informed that there are some unpublished letters from Hannah More, Alexander
Knox, and other distinguished characters, with whom Dr. Miller was in the habit of corresponding.

ABHBA.

Anticipations of Modern Ideas or Inventions.--In Vol. iii., pp. 62. 69., are two interesting
instances of this sort. In Wilson's Life of Defoe, he gives the titles of two works which I
have often sought in vain, and which he classes amongst the writings of that voluminous author.
They run thus:

    "Augusta triumphans, or the way to make London the most flourishing
    city in the universe. I. By establishing a university where gentlemen
    may have an academical education under the eye of their friends [the
    London University anticipated]. II. To prevent much murder, &c., by an
    hospital for foundlings. III. By suppressing pretended madhouses, where
    many of the fair sex are unjustly confin'd while their husbands keep
    mistresses, and many widows are lock'd up for the sake of their
    jointures. IV. To save our youth from destruction by suppressing gaming
    tables, and Sunday debauches. V. To avoid the expensive importation of
    foreign musicians by promoting an academy of our own, [Anticipation of
    the Royal Academy of Music], &c. &c. London: T. Warner. 1728. 8vo."

    "Second Thoughts are Best; or a further Improvement of a late Scheme
    to prevent Street Robberies, by which our Streets will be so strongly
    guarded and so gloriously illuminated, that any Part of London will be
    as safe and pleasant at Midnight as at Noonday; and Burglary totally
    impracticable [a remarkable anticipation of the present state of
    things in the principal thoroughfares]. With some Thoughts for
    suppressing Robberies in all the Public Roads of England [rural police
    anticipated]. Humbly offer'd for the Good of his Country, submitted to
    the Consideration of Parliament, and dedicated to his Sacred Majesty
    Geo. II., by Andrew Moreton, Esq. [supposed to be an assumed name; a
    common practice of De Foe's]. London. W. Meadows, 1729."

R. D. H.

"Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon!"--The above text is often quoted as not being in accordance
with the present state of our astronomical knowledge, and many well-known commentators on the
Bible have adopted the same opinion.

I find Kitto, in the Pictorial Bible, characterising it as "an example of those bold metaphors
and poetical forms of expression with which the Scriptures abound." Scott (edit. 1850) states
that "it would have been improper that he (Joshua) should speak, or that the miracle should
be recorded according to the terms of modern astronomy."

Mant (edit. 1830) says: "It is remarkable that the terms in which this event is recorded do
not agree with what is now known rewarding the motion of the heavenly bodies."

Is it certain that Joshua's words are absolutely at variance and irreconcileable with the present
state of astronomical knowledge? Astronomers allow that the sun is the centre and governing
principle of our system, and that it revolves on its axis. What readier means, then, could
Joshua have found for staying the motion of our planet, than by commanding the revolving centre,
in its inseparable connexion with all planetary motion, to stand still?

I. K.

Langley's Polidore Vergile.--At the back of the title of a copy of Langley's Abridgement of
Polidore Vergile, 8vo., Lond. 1546, seen by Hearne in 1719, was the following MS. note:

    "At Oxforde, the yere 1546, browt down to Seynbury by John Darbye,
    pryse 14d. I prey
    God amende that blyndnes. Wryt by Robert Wyllyams, kepynge shepe uppon
    Seynbury Hill."

At the end of the dedication to Sir Ant. Denny is also written:

    "Robert Wyllyams Boke, bowgyt by John Darby at Oesforth, and brot to
    Seynbury."

The Seynbury here mentioned was doubtless Saintbury in Gloucestershire, on the borders of Worcestershire,
near Chipping Campden, and about four miles distant from Evesham.

P. B.

Luther and Ignatius Loyola.--A parallel or counterpoising view of these two characters has
been quoted in several publications, some of recent date; but in all it is attributed to a
wrong source. Mr. M^cGavin, in his Protestant, Letter CXL., (p. 582, ed. 1846); Mr. Overbury,
in his Jesuits (Lond. 1846), p. 8., and, of course, the authority from which he borrows, Poynder's
History of the Jesuits; and Dr. Dowling's Romanism, p. 473. {138} (ed. New York, 1849)--all
these give, as the authority for the contrasted characters quoted, Damian's Synopsis Societatis
Jesu. Nothing of the kind appears there; but in the Imago primi Sæculi Soc. Jesu, 1640, it
will be found, p. 19.

The misleader of these writers seems to have been Villers, in his Prize Essay on the Reformation,
or his annotator, Mills, p. 374.

NOVUS.

P.S. (Vol. ii., p. 375.).--The lines quoted by Dr. Pusey, I have some notion, belong to a Romish,
not a Socinian, writer.

Winkel.--I thought, some time since, that the places bearing this name in England, were taken
from the like German word, signifying a corner. I find, on examination, that there is a village
in Rhenish Prussia named "Winkel." It seems that Charlemagne had a wine-cellar there; so that
that word is no doubt taken from the German words wein and keller, from the Latin vinum and cella.

AREDJID KOOEZ.

Foreign Renderings.--In addition to those given, I will add the following, which I once came
across at Salzburg:

    "George Nelböck recommande l'hôtel aux Trois Alliés, vis-à-vis de la
    maison paternelle du célèbre Mozart, lequel est nouvellement fourni et
    offre tous les comforts à Mrs. les voyageurs."

Translated as follows:

    "George Nelböck begs leave to recommand his hotel to the Three
    Allied, situated vis-à-vis of the birth house of Mozart, which offers
    all comforts to the meanest charges."

Also the following:

    "M. Reutlinger (of Frankfort on Main) takes leave to recommande his
    well furnished magazine of all kind of travelling-luggage and
    sadle-works."

AREDJID KOOEZ.

Samuel Johnson--Gilbert Wakefield.--Whoever has had much to do with the press will sympathise
with MR. CHARLES KNIGHT in all that he has stated ("NOTES AND QUERIES," Vol. iii., p. 62.)
respecting the accidental--but not at first discovered--substitution of modern for moderate.
If that word modern had not been detected till it was too late for an explanation on authority,
what strange conjectures would have been the consequence! Happily, MR. KNIGHT was at hand to
remove that stumbling-block.

I rather fancy that I can rescue Samuel Johnson from the fangs of Gilbert Wakefield, by the
supposition of an error of the press. In 1786, Wakefield published an edition of Gray's Poems,
with notes; and in the last note on Gray's "Ode on the Death of a Cat," he thus animadverts
on Dr. Johnson:--

    Our critic exposes himself to reproof from the manner in which he has
    conveyed his severe remark: show a rhyme is sometimes made. The
    omission of the relative, a too common practice with our writers, is an
    impropriety of the grossest kind: and which neither gods or men, as
    one expresses himself, nor any language under heaven, can endure."

But Gilbert Wakefield was a critic by profession, and apparently as great in English as he
was in Greek.

VARRO.

Compare Lucretius, lib.

ECHO.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL QUERIES.

(Continued from Vol. iii., p. 87.)

(39.) Does any one now feel inclined to vindicate for Inchofer, Scioppius, Bariac, or Contarini,
the authorship of the Monarchia Solipsorum? Notwithstanding the testimony of the Venice edition
of 1652, as well as the very abundant evidence of successive witnesses, in favour of the first-named
writer, (whose claim has been recognised so lately as the year 1790, by the Indice Ultimo of
Madrid), can there be the smallest doubt that the veritable inventor of this satire upon the
Jesuits was their former associate, JULES-CLEMENT SCOTTI? For the interpretation of his pseudonyme,
"Lucius Cornelius Europæus," see Niceron, Mém. xxxix. 70-1.

(40.) Mr. Cureton (Ant. Syr. vers. of Ep. of S. Ignat. Preface, p. ii., Lond. 1845) has asserted
that--

    "The first Epistles published, bearing the name of St. Ignatius--one to
    the Holy Virgin, and two to the Apostle St. John, in Latin,--were
    printed in the year 1495. Three years later there appeared an edition
    of eleven Epistles, also in Latin, attributed to the same {139} holy
    Martyr. But nearly seventy years more elapsed before any edition of
    these Epistles in Greek was printed. In 1557, Val. Paceus published
    twelve," &c.

Two connected Queries may be founded upon this statement:--(1.) Is not Mr. Cureton undoubtedly
in error with respect to the year 1495? for, if we may believe Orlandi, Maittaire, Fabricius
(B. G.), and Ceillier, the three Latin Epistles above named had been set forth previously at
Cologne, in 1478. (2.) By what mysterious species of arithmetic can it be demonstrated that
"nearly seventy years" elapsed between 1498 and 1557? The process must be a somewhat similar
one to that by which "A.D. 360" is made equivalent to "five-and-twenty years after the Council
of Nice." (Pref., p. xxxiv.) In the former instance "seventy" is hardly a literal translation
of Bishop Pearson's "sexaginta:" but whether these miscalculations have been already adverted
to, and subsequently amended, or not, I cannot tell.

(41.) In the same Preface (p. xxiv.) a very strange argument was put forward, which, as we
may learn from the last Quarterly Review, p. 79., where it is satisfactorily refuted, has been
since repeated by Mr. Cureton. He maintains that the Syriac text of the Ignatian Epistles cannot
be an epitome, because that "we know of no instances of such abridgment in any Christian writer."
To commence with the West,--is not Mr. Cureton acquainted with the manner in which Rufinus
dealt with the History of Eusebius? Have we here no specimens of abbreviation; no allusion
in the prologue to "omissis quæ videbantur superflua?" Has Mr. C. never looked into that memorable
combination of the independent works of three contemporaries, entitled Historia Tripartita?
and, not to wander from the strictest bounds of bibliography, will any one presume to boast
of having a copy of this book printed prior to that now near me, (a spectacle which De Bure
could never get a sight of), "per Iohannem Schüszler regie vrbis Augustensis ciuem," anno 1472?
But let us go to the East in search of compendiums. Did not Theodorus Lector, early in the
sixth century, reduce into a harmony the compositions of Socrates, Sozomen, and Theodoret?
How does Assemani speak of the first two parts of the Ecclesiastical History of Zacharias Rhetor,
supposed to have been written in Syriac, about the year 540? "Prima est epitome Socratis, altera
Theodoreti." (Biblioth. Orient., tom. ii. cap. vii.) On this occasion, manifestly, ancient
records are encountered in an abridged Syriac form; a circumstance which will not strengthen
the Curetonian theory relative to the text of the Ignatian Epistles. Again, bearing in mind
the resemblance that exists between passages in the interpolated Epistles and in the Apostolic
Constitutions, with the latter of which the Didascalia of Ignatius seems to have been commingled,
let us inquire, Did not Dr. Grabe, in his Essay upon the Doctrine of the Apostles, published
in 1711, unanswerably prove that the Syriac copy of this Didascalia was much more contracted
than the Arabic one, or than the Greek Constitutions of the Apostles? Is it not true that extracted
portions of these Constitutions are found in some old MS. collections of Canons? Has not Cotelier
furnished us with an "Epitome," compiled by Metaphrastes from Clementine counterfeits, concerning
the life of S. Peter? And, to descend from the tenth to the sixteenth century, are we not indebted
to Carolus Capellius for an "Epitome Apostolicarum Constitutionum, in Creta insula repertarum,"
4to., Ingolstad. 1546?

(42.) When MR MERRYWEATHER (Vol. iii., p. 60.) was seeking for monastic notices of extreme
longevity, did he always find it feasible to meet with Ingulphus's History of Croyland Abbey
"apud Wharton, Anglia Sacra, 613?" and if it be not enough to have read an account of an ecclesiastic
who is said to have attained to the delectable age of 168 years, is it not questionable that
anything will suffice except it be the narrative of the Seven Sleepers? The third "Lectio"
relating to these Champions of Christendom, as it is given in a Vatican MS., makes the period
of their slumber to have been about 370 years. Who was the author of that finely-printed and
illustrated quarto volume, the Sanctorum Septem Dormientium Historia, ex Ectypis Musei Victorii
expressa, published, with the full approbation of the Censors, Romæ, 1741? "Obscurus esse gestio"
is his declaration about himself (p. 63.). Has he remained incognito?

R. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE'S "ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA."

The first scene of the third act of Shakspeare's play of "Antony and Cleopatra," at first sight,
appears to be totally unconnected with what goes before and what follows. It may be observed
that the dramas founded on the Roman history are much more regular in their construction than
those founded on the English history. Indeed, with respect to the drama in question, I am not
aware of any scene, with the exception of that I have mentioned, which does not bear more or
less on the fortunes of the personages from whom the play derives its name. Hence I am led
to conjecture that the dramatist here alludes to some event of the day, which was well known
to his audience. The speech of Ventidius seems to point to something of the kind:

                     "O Silius, Silius!
  I have done enough: a lower place, note well,
  May make too great an act: for learn this, Silius;
  Better leave undone, than by our deed acquire
  Too high a fame, when him we serve's away," &c.

Some of your numerous readers will doubtless {140} be able to inform me whether there is any
instance in the annals of that age of an inferior officer outshining his superior, and being
cashiered or neglected in consequence.

Malone assigns to the play the date of 1608.

X. Z.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREENE'S "GROATSWORTH OF WITTE."

The interesting article by the HERMIT OF HOLYPORT, on the early German translation of Greene's
Quip for an Upstart Courtier, will, I am sure, be read with attention by all lovers of our
early literature. My object in addressing you on the subject is to draw the attention of your
foreign correspondents, and perhaps the notice of your new contemporary, to the great importance
of discovering whether the Groatsworth of Witte was also translated into German. The earliest
edition I have seen is that of 1617, but it was printed as early as 1592; and I have long been
curious to ascertain whether the remarkable passage respecting Shakspeare has descended to
us in its genuine state. In the absence of the English edition of 1592, this information might
be obtained from a translation published before 1617. Perhaps, however, some of your readers
may be able to point out the existence of an earlier edition. I have sought for that of 1592
for several years without any success.

J. O. HALLIWELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Fronte Capillatâ.--The following lines recurred to my memory after reading in your last number
the translation of the epigram by Pasidippus in the article on "Fronte capillatâ," &c.; it
is many years since I read them, but have forgotten where. Can you or any of your correspondents
inform me who is the author of them?

HENRY M. BURT.

    Gibson Square, Feb. 4. 1851.

Prayer of Bishop of Nantes.--In Allison's History of the French Revolution, ed. 1849, at page
432. vol. i., there occurs the following passage:

    "The Bishop of Nancy commenced, as customary, with the prayer:
    'Receive, O God, the homage of the Clergy, the respects of the
    Noblesse, and the humble supplications of the Tiers Etat.'"

This formula was, the historian tells us, received with a storm of disapprobation by the third
order. Will any of your contributors be so obliging as to inform me where the form of prayer
spoken of as customary is to be found?

J. M.

    Liverpool.

Advantage of a Bad Ear.--Can any of your readers supply the name of the man of mark in English
history, who says "he encouraged in himself a bad ear, because it enabled him to enjoy music
he would not have enjoyed without?"

I have looked through the lives of Lord Herbert of Cherbury, Hampden, Hobbes, Andrew Marvell,
and Fletcher of Saltoun, without finding it; though it is possible it may be in some of these
after all. The list given will point to the kind of personage in question.

TN.

Imputed Letters of Sullustius or Sallustius (Vol. iii., p. 62.).--I am sorry to say that the
printer has completely spoiled my Query, by printing Sullustius instead of Sallustius throughout
the whole article. I subjoin a few more particulars concerning them. In the edition printed
at Cambridge (4to. 1710), and published under the auspices of the learned Wasse, they are included.
They are there entitled Orationes ad C. Cæsarem, de Republica Ordinanda. Cortius rejects them,
and De Brosses accepts them. Douza, Crispinus, Perizonius, Clericus, &c., all speak in favour
of their authenticity. Allen does not mention them, and Anthon rejects them entirely. With
these additional hints I doubt not but that some of your obliging correspondents will be able
to give me a reply.

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

Rev. W. Adams.--When did Mr. Adams, the accomplished author of the Sacred Allegories, die?
This is unaccountably omitted in the "Memoir" prefixed to the collected edition of his Allegories
(London, Rivingtons, 1849). Can any characteristic anecdote be related of him, suitable for
giving point to a sketch of his life for foreign readers?

GEORGE STEPHENS.

    Stockholm.

Mr. Beard, Vicar of Greenwich.--Any information relating to "Mr. Beard, Vicar of Greenwich,"
who, in the year 1563, was recommended by Loftus, Archbishop of Armagh, and Brady, Bishop of
Meath, as a proper person to be preferred to the bishopric of Kildare, will be very acceptable to--

SPES.

Goddard's History of Lynn.--It has been always understood that Mr. Guybon Goddard (who was
Recorder of this borough in 1651 or thereabouts) collected a quantity of materials for a history
of Lynn, and that in 1677 or 1678 an offer to purchase them was made by the corporation to
his son, Thomas Goddard, but it seems without success. The fact of such materials having been
{141} collected is recognised by Goddard's brother-in-law, Sir Wm. Dugdale (who refers to it
in some part of his works), as also by Parkin, in his History of Freebridge and King's Lynn,
p. 293., where he is called a curious collector of antiquities. My Query is, Can any of your
correspondents inform me where this collection can be met with?

JOHN NURSE CHADWICK.

Sir Andrew Chadwick.--It is stated that on the 18th Jan. 1709-10, Sir Andrew Chadwick, of St.
James's, Westminster, was knighted by Queen Anne for some service done to her, it is supposed
for rescuing her when thrown from her horse. Can any of your correspondents inform me if such
was the fact, and from what source they derive their information?

JOHN NURSE CHADWICK.

    King's Lynn.

Sangaree.--Your periodical having been the means of eliciting some interesting particulars
respecting the origin of the word grog, perhaps you will allow me to claim a similar distinction
for the word sangaree. You are aware that this word is applied, in the West Indies, to a beverage
composed of Madeira wine, syrup, water, and nutmeg. The French call it sangris, in allusion,
it is supposed, to the colour of the beverage, which when mixed has the appearance, as it were,
of grey blood (sang gris): but as there is reason to believe that the English were the first
to introduce the use of the thing, they having been the first to introduce its principal ingredient,
Madeira wine, I am disposed to look upon sangaree as the original word, and sangris as nothing
more than a corruption of it. Can any of your readers (among whom I trust there are many retired
West India planters) give the etymology of this word?

HENRY H. BREEN.

    St. Lucia, Dec. 1850.

King John at Lincoln.--Matthew Paris, under the year 1200, gives an account of King John's
visiting Lincoln to meet William, king of Scots, and to receive his homage:

    "Ubi Rex Johannes, [he says] contra consilium multorum, intravit
    civitatem intrepidus, quod nullus antecessorum suorum attentare ausus
    fuerat."

My Query is, What were they afraid of?

C. W. B.

Canes lesi.--May I also put a question with respect to an ancient tenure in Dorsetshire, recorded
by Blount, edit. 1679, p. 46.:

    "Juliana, &c., tenuit dimidiam hidam terræ, &c., per serjantiam
    custodiendi Canes Domini Regis lesos, si qui fuerint, quotiescunque
    Dominus Rex fugaverit in Forestâ suâ de Blakemore: et ad dandum unum
    denarium ad clancturam Parci Domini Regis de Gillingham."

Blount's explanation of Canes lesos, is "leash hounds or park hounds, such as draw after a
hurt deer in a leash, or liam;" but is there any reason why we should not adopt the more simple
rendering of "hurt hounds;" and suppose that Dame Juliana was matron of the Royal Dorset Dog
Hospital?

Ducange gives no such word as lesus; neither does he nor any authority, to which I have access,
help me to understand the word clanctura. I trust, however, that some of your correspondents will.

C. W. B.

Headings of Chapters in English Bibles.--The arguments or contents which are prefixed to each
chapter of our English Bibles seem occasionally to vary; some being more full and comprehensive
than others. When and by whom were they compiled? what authority do they possess? and where
can we meet with any account of them?

LITURGICUS.

Abbot Eustacius and Angodus de Lindsei.--Can any of your learned readers inform me in what
reign an Abbot Eustacius flourished? He is witness to a charter of Ricardus de Lindsei, on
his granting twelve denarii to St. Mary of Greenfeld, in Lincolnshire: there being no date,
I am anxious to ascertain its antiquity. He is there designated "Eustacius Abbe Flamoei." Also
witnessed by Willo' decano de Hoggestap, Roberto de Wells, Eudene de Bavent, Radulpho de Neuilla,
&c. The latter appears in the Doomsday Book. The charter is to be found among Ascough's Col., B. M.

I should also be glad to know whether the Christian name Angodus be German, Norman, or Saxon.
Angodus de Lindsei grants a carrucate of land in Hedreshille to St. Albans, in the time of
the Conqueror. If this person assumed the name of Lindsei previous to the Doomsday inquisition,
ought not his name to have appeared in the Doomsday Book,--he who could afford to make a grant
of 100 acres of land to the Abbey of St. Albans?

J. L.

Oration against Demosthenes.--Mr. Harris of Alexandria made a discovery, some years ago, of
a fragment of an oration against Demosthenes. Can you, or any of your kind correspondents,
favour me with an account of it? I cannot recall the particulars of the discovery, but I believe
the oration, with a fac-simile, was privately printed.

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

Pun.--C. H. KENYON (Vol. iii., p. 37.) asks if Milton could have seriously perpetrated the
pun "each tome a tomb." I doubt whether he intended it for a pun. But his Query induces me
to put another. Whence and when did the aversion to, and contempt for, a pun arise? Is it an
offshoot from the Reformation? Our Catholic fellow-countrymen surely felt no such aversion;
for the claim which they make of supremacy for {142} their church is based upon a pun, and
that a very sorry one.

A. R.

Sonnet (query by Milton?) (Vol. iii., p. 37.).--May I inquire from your correspondent whether
he possesses the book, A Collection of Recente and Witty Pieces by Several Eminente Hands,
London, 1628, from which this sonnet is stated to be extracted. The lines look suspiciously
modern, and I should, before making any further observations upon them, be glad to be assured
of their authenticity through the medium of your pages.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Medal given to Howard.--Hepworth Dixon, in his Life of Howard, mentions a Russian General Bulgarhow,
who was presented by his countrymen with a gold medal, as "one who had deserved well of his
country." The General's reply stated that his services to mankind reached his own country only;
but there was a man whose extraordinary philanthropy took in all the world,--who had already,
with infinite toil and peril, extended his humanity to all nations,--and who was therefore
alone worthy of such a distinction; to him, his master in benevolence, he should send the medal!
And he did so. Can any of your readers inform me who now possesses this medal, and where it
is to be found?

W. A.

Withers' Devil at Sarum.--Where is Withers' Devil at Sarum, mentioned in Hudibras, to be met
with? It is not in any of his collected works that I have seen.

JAMES WAYLEN.

Election of a Pope.--I have read somewhere that some cardinals assembled in a water-closet
in order to elect a pope. Can any of your readers refer me to any book where such a fact is
mentioned?

T.

Battle in Wiltshire.--A pamphlet dated (in MS.) Dec. 12. 1642, describes an engagement as taking
place in Wiltshire between Rupert and Skippon. If this be so, how comes it to pass that not
only the general histories are silent as to the event, but that even the newspapers omit it?
We know that Rupert was at the sack of Cirencester, in February, 1642-3; and Cirencester is
on the borders of Wiltshire: but is there any authority for the first-mentioned visit to this
county, during the period from the affair at Brentford to the taking of Cirencester?

JAMES WAYLEN.

Colonel Fell.--Can you inform me who are the representatives or descendants of Lieut.-Colonel
Robert Edward Fell, of St. Martin's in the Fields, London, where he was living in the year
1770? He was the great-grandson of Thomas Fell, of Swarthmore Hall, co. Lancaster, Esq., Chancellor
of the Duchy of Lancaster during the Commonwealth, whose widow married George Fox, founder
of the Quakers.

The following stanza, also in the poem numbered 87., much needs interpretation:

 "Or cooled within the glooming wave,--
  And last, returning from afar,
  Before the crimson-circled star
  Had fallen into her father's grave."

W. B. H.

    Manchester.

Magnum Sedile.--Can any of your correspondents throw light on the singular arched recesses,
sometimes (though rarely) to be found on the south side of chancels, west of the sedilia. The
name of magnum sedile has been given to them, I know not on what authority; but if they were
intended to be used as stalls of dignity for special occasions, they would hardly have been
made so wide and low as they are generally found. A good example occurs at Fulbourn, Cambridgeshire,--certainly
not monumental; and another (but more like a tomb) at Merton, near Oxford, engraved in the
Glossary of Architecture. Why should they not have been intended for the holy sepulchre at
Easter? as I am not aware that these were necessarily restricted to the north side. Is there
any instance of a recess of this kind on the south side, and an Easter sepulchre on the north,
in the same church?

C. R. M.

Ace of Diamonds--the Earl of Cork.--In addition to the soubriquets bestowed upon the nine of
diamonds of "the Curse of Scotland," and that of "the Grace Card," given to the six of hearts
(Vol. i., pp. 90. 119.), there is yet another, attached to the ace of diamonds, which is everywhere
in Ireland denominated "the Earl of Cork," the origin of which I should be glad to know.

The practice of shutting up rooms in which members of the family had died was retained up to
the end of the last century. I learn from a friend that, in a country house in the south of
England, his mother's apartment, consisting of a sitting-room, bed-room, and dressing-room,
was closed at her death in 1775. The room in which his grandfather had died in 1760 was likewise
closed. These four rooms were kept locked up, with the shutters shut, till the year 1793, when
the next owner came into possession, who opened them, and caused them to be again used. Probably
other cases of the same sort may be known to your correspondents, as having occurred in the
last century; but the custom appears to be now extinct.

L.

Standfast's Cordial Comforts.--I have lately procured a copy of an interesting book, entitled

    "A Little Handful of Cordial Comforts: scattered throughout several
    Answers to Sixteen Questions and Objections following. By Richard
    Standfast, M.A., Rector of Christ Church in Bristol, and Chaplain in
    Ordinary to King Charles II. Sixth Edition. Bristol, 1764. 18mo. pp.
    94."

Can any of your readers give me further particulars of Mr. Standfast, or tell me where to find
them? In what year was the work first published? It was reprinted in Bristol in 1764, "for
Mr. Standfast Smith, apothecary, great-grandson of the author." Has any later edition appeared?

ABHBA.

"Predeceased" and "Designed."--J. Dennistoun, in his Memoirs of the Dukes of Urbino, ii. p.
239., says--

    "His friend the cardinal had lately predeceased him."

Can any of your readers give me an instance from any one of our standard classical authors
of a verb active "to decease"?

The same author uses the word designed several times in the sense of designated. I should be
glad of a few authorities for the use of the word in this sense.

W. A.

Lady Fights at Atherton.--A poem, published in 1643, in honour of the King's successes in the
West, has the following reference to a circumstance connected with Fairfax's retreat at Atherton
Moor:

 "When none but lady staid to fight."

I should be glad to learn to what this refers, and whether or not the real story formed the
basis of De Foe's account of the fighting lady at Thame, laid about the same period, viz. the
early part of the year 1643.

JAMES WAYLEN

Sketches of Civil War Garrisons, &c.--During the civil war, sketches and drawings were, no
doubt, made of the lines drawn about divers garrisons. Some few of these have from time to
time appeared as woodcuts: but I have a suspicion that several remain only in MS. still. If
any of your readers can direct me to any collection of them in the British Museum or Oxford,
they would shorten a search that has long been made in vain.

JAMES WAYLEN.

"Jurat? crede minus:" Epigram.--Can any of your learned readers inform me by whom the following
epigram was written? I lately heard it applied, in conversation, to the Jesuits, but I think
it is of some antiquity:--

 "Jurat? crede minus: non jurat? credere noli:
  Jurat, non jurat? hostis ab hoste cave."

F. R. R.

Meaning of Gulls.--What is the origin of the word "gulls," as applied in Wensleydale (North
York) to hasty-pudding, which is a mixture of oatmeal and milk or water boiled?

D. 2.

The Family of Don.--Can any of your correspondents furnish me with information regarding the
family of Don, of Pitfichie, near Monymusk, Aberdeenshire; or trace how they were connected
with the Dons of Newton Don, Roxburghshire?

A. A.

    Abridge.

Wages in the last Century.--I should like to have any particulars of the price of labour at
various periods in the last century, especially the wages of domestic servants. May I be permitted
to mention that I am collecting anecdotes of the manners and customs, social and domestic,
of our grandfathers, and should be much obliged for any curious particulars of their ways of
living, their modes of travelling, or any peculiarities of their daily life? I am anxious to
form a museum of the characteristic curiosities of the century; its superstitions, its habits,
and its diversions.

A. A.

    Abridge.

Woman, Lines on.--Can any of your correspondents inform me who was the author of the following
lines:--

                     "She was ----
  But words would fail to tell her worth: think
  What a woman ought to be,
  And she was that."

They are to be found on several tombstones throughout the country.

SCRUTATOR.

{144}

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

THE EPISCOPAL MITRE AND PAPAL TIARA.

(Vol. iii., p. 62.)

In answer to the question of an "INQUIRER" respecting the origin of the peculiar form and first
use of the episcopal mitre, I take the liberty of suggesting that it will be found to be of
Oriental extraction, and to have descended from that country, either directly, or through the
medium of other nations, to the ecclesiastics of Christian Rome. The writers of the Romish,
as well as Reformed Churches, now admit, that most, if not all, of the external symbols, whether
of dress or ceremonial pageantry, exhibited by the Roman Catholic priesthood, were adopted
from the Pagans, under the plea of being "indifferent in themselves, and applicable as symbolical
in their own rites and usages" (Marangoni, Delle cose gentili e profane trasportate nel uso
ed ornamento delle chiesi); in the same manner as many Romish customs were retained at the
Reformation for the purpose of inducing the Papists to "come in," and conform to the other
changes then made (Southey, History of the Church). Thus, while the disciples of Dr. Pusey
extract their forms and symbols from the practices of Papal Rome, the disciples of the Pope
deduce theirs from the practices of Pagan Rome.

With this preface I proceed to show that the episcopal mitre and the papal tiara are respectively
the copies each of a distinct head-dress originally worn by the kings of Persia and the conterminous
countries, and by the chiefs of their priesthood, the Magi. The nomenclature alone indicates
a foreign extraction. It comes to us through the Romans from the Greeks; both of which nations
employed the terms [Greek: mitra], Lat. mitra, and [Greek: tiara], Lat. tiara, to designate
two different kinds of covering for the head in use amongst the Oriental races, each one of
a distinct and peculiar form, though as being foreigners, and consequently not possessing the
technical accuracy of a native, they not unfrequently confound the two words, and apply them
indiscriminately to both objects. Strictly speaking, the Greek [Greek: mitra], in its primitive
notion, means a long scarf, whence it came to signify, in a secondary sense, various articles
of attire composed with a scarf, and amongst others the Oriental turban (Herod. vii. 62.).
But as we descend in time, and remove in distance from the country where this object was worn,
we find that the Romans affixed another notion to the word, which they used very commonly to
designate the Asiatic or Phrygian cap (Virg. Æn. iv. 216.; Servius, l.c.); and this sense has
likewise been adopted in our own language:

 "That Paris now with his unmanly sort,
  With mitred hat."--Surrey, Virgil, Æn. iv.

Thus the word mitra in its later usage came to signify a cap or bonnet, instead of a turban;
and it is needless to observe that the priests of a religion comparatively modern, when they
adopted the term, would have taken it in the sense which was current at their own day. Now,
though the common people were not permitted to wear high bonnets, nor of any other than a soft
and flexible material, the kings and personages of distinction had theirs of a lofty form,
and stiffened for the express purpose of making them stand up at an imposing elevation above
the crown of the head. In the national collection at Paris there is preserved an antique gem,
engraved by Caylus (Recueil d'Antiq., vol. ii. p. 124.), on which is engraved the head of some
Oriental personage, probably a king of Parthia, Persia, or Armenia, who wears a tall upstanding
bonnet, mitred at the top exactly like a bishop's, with the exception that it has three incisions
at the side instead of a single one. These separate incisions had no doubt a symbolical meaning
amongst the native races, although their allusive properties are unknown to us; but it is not
an unwarrantable inference, nor inconsistent with the customs of these nations as enduring
at this day, to conclude that the numbers of one, two, or three, were appropriated as distinctions
of different degrees in rank; and that their priests, the Magi, like those of other countries
where the sovereign did not invest himself with priestly dignities, imitated the habiliments
as they assumed the powers of the sovereign, and wore a bonnet closely resembling his in form
and dignity, with the difference of one large mitre at each side, in place of the three smaller
ones.

If this account be true respecting the origin of the mitre, it will lead us by an easy step
to determine the place where it was first used--at Antioch, the "Queen of the East," where,
as we are told in the Acts of the Apostles, the followers of Christ were first called "Christians;"
thus indicating that they were sufficiently numerous and influential to be distinguished as
a separate class in that city, while those in Rome yet remained despised and unknown. Antioch
was the imperial residence of the Macedonian dynasty, which succeeded Alexander, who himself
assumed the upright bonnet of the Persian king (Arrian. iv. 7.), and transmitted it to his
successors, who ruled over Syria for several hundred years, where its form would be ready at
hand as a model emblematic of authority for the bishop who ruled over the primitive church
in those parts.

The tiara of the popes has, in like manner, an Eastern origin; but instead of being adopted
by them directly from its native birth-place, it descended through Etruria to the Pagan priesthood
of ancient Rome, and thence to the head of the Roman Catholic Church. The [Greek: tiara] of
the Greeks, and tiara of the Latins, expresses the cloth cap or fez of the Parthians, Persians,
Armenians, &c., {145} which was a low scull-cap amongst the commonalty, but a stiff and elevated
covering for the kings and personages of distinction (Xen. Anab. ii. 5, 23.). This imposing
tiara is frequently represented on ancient monuments, where it varies in some details, though
always preserving the characteristic peculiarity of a tall upright head-dress. It is sometimes
truncated at its upper extremity, at others a genuine round-topped bonnet, like the Phrygian
cap when pulled out to its full length, and stiffened so as to stand erect--each a variety
of form peculiar to certain classes or degrees of rank, which at this period we are not able
to decide and distinguish with certainty. But on a bas-relief from Persepolis, supposed to
have belonged to the palace of Cyrus, and engraved by Ferrario (Costume dell' Asia, vol. iii.
tav. 47.), may be seen a bonnet shaped very much like a beehive, the exact type of the papal
tiara, with three bands (the triregno) round its sides, and only wanting the cross at the summit,
and the strawberry-leaved decoration, to distinguish it from the one worn by Pio Nono: and
on a medal of Augustus, engraved on a larger scale in Rich's Companion to the Latin Dictionary,
art. Tutulus, we find this identical form, with an unknown ornament of the top, for which the
popes substituted a cross, reappearing on the skull of a pagan priest. I may add that the upright
tiaras represented on works of ancient art, which can be proved, or are known to be worn by
royal personages, are truncated at the summit; whence it does not seem an improper inference
to conclude that the round and conical ones belonged to persons inferior to the kings alone
in rank and influence, the Magi; which is the more probable, since it is clear that they were
adopted by the highest priests of two other religions, those of Pagan and of Christian Rome.

If space admits, I would also add that the official insignia and costume of a cardinal are
likewise derived from the pagan usages of Greece. Amongst his co-religionists he is supposed
to symbolize one of the Apostles of Christ, who went forth ill clothed and coarsely shod to
preach the Gospel; whereas, in truth, his comfortable hat, warm cloak, and showy stockings,
are but borrowed plumage from the ordinary travelling costume of a Greek messenger ([Greek:
apostolos]). The sentiment of travelling is always conveyed in the ancient bas-reliefs and
vase paintings by certain conventional signs or accessories bestowed upon the figure represented,
viz., a broad-brimmed and low-crowned hat ([Greek: petasos], Lat. petasus), with long ties
(redimicula) hanging from its sides, which served to fasten it under the chin, or sling it
behind at the nape of the neck when not worn upon the head; a wrapping cloak ([Greek: himation],
Lat. pallium) made of coarse material instead of fine lamb's wool; and a pair of stout travelling
boots laced round the legs with leathern thongs ([Greek: endromides]), more serviceable for
bad roads and rough weather than their representatives, red silk stockings. All these peculiarities
may be seen in the following engravings (Winhelm. Mon. Ined. Tratt., Prelim., p. xxxv.; Id.,
tav. 85.; Rich's Companion, art. "Ceryx" and "Pallium").

I regret that the nature of your publication does not admit the introduction of woodcuts, which
would have enabled me to present your readers with the best of all demonstrations for what
I advance. In default of that I have endeavoured to point out the most compendious and accessible
sources where the figures I refer to may be seen in engravings. But if any reader of "NOTES
AND QUERIES" should not have an opportunity of consulting the books cited, and is desirous
of pursuing the investigation to satisfy himself, I would willingly transmit to him a drawing
of the objects mentioned through Mr. Bell, or any other channel deemed more convenient.

A. RICH, JUNR.

The Episcopal Mitre (Vol. iii., p. 62.)--Godwyn, in his Moses and Aaron, London, 1631, b. i.,
c. 5., says that--

    "A miter of fine linnen sixteene cubits long, wrapped about his head,
    and a plate of purple gold, or holy crowne, two fingers broad, whereon
    was graven Holinesse to the Lord, which was tied with a blew lace upon
    the forefront of the miter,"

was that "which shadowed and signified the kingly office of our Saviour Christ," in the apparel
of the Jewish high priest, and ordered (Lev. xvi. 4.): and again, in his Romanæ Historiæ Anthologia,
Oxford, 1631, lib. iii. sec. 1. cap. 8., he says that the

    "Mitra did signifie a certaine attire for women's heads, as a coife
    or such like."

For further illustration see Virgil's Æneid, lib. iv. l. 216.:

 "Mæoniâ mentum mitrâ crinemque madentem."

Again, lib. ix. l. 616.:

 "Et tunicæ manicas et habent redimicula mitræ."

During the ennobling of the clergy by the Roman emperors, in the seventh and eighth centuries,
a crown was found necessary, and anciently cardinals wore mitres; but, at the council of Lyons,
in 1245, they were appointed to wear hats.

BLOWEN.

The Episcopal Mitre (Vol. iii., p. 62.).--AN INQUIRER will find much curious matter respecting
the mitre, collected both from classical writers and antiquaries, in Explications de plusieurs
Textes difficiles de l'Ecriture par le R. P. Dom. [Martin], 4to., à Paris, 1730. To any one
ambitious of learnedly occupying some six or seven columns of "NOTES AND QUERIES" the ample
foot references are very tempting; I content myself with transcribing two or three of the entries
in the index:

    "Mitre des anciens, leur nature, et leur forme; était la {146} marque
    du Sacerdoce; se portait ordinairement à la tête, et quelquefois aux
    mains. Forme des mitres dans leur origine, et dans les tems
    postérieurs," &c.

This dissertation, which is illustrated by several plates, will repay for the time spent in
reading it. I presume INQUIRER is acquainted with Godwyn's Moses and Aaron, where he will find
something.

W. DN.

Episcopal Mitre.--The origin of the peculiar form of the episcopal mitre is the cloven tongues
which descended on the Apostles on the day of Pentecost, with the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Of this the mitre is an emblem.

L. M. M. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRYDEN'S ESSAY UPON SATIRE.

(Vol. ii., pp. 422. 462.)

The Query proposed by your correspondent, as to the authorship of the Essay on Satire, is a
very interesting one, and I am rather surprised that it has not yet been replied to. In favour
of your correspondent's view, and I think it is perhaps the strongest argument which can be
alleged, is Dean Lockier's remark:--

    "Could anything be more impudent than his (Sheffield's) publishing that
    satire, for writing which Dryden was beaten in Rose Alley (and which
    was so remarkably known by the name of the 'Rose Alley Satire') as his
    own? Indeed he made a few alterations in it, but these were only
    verbal, and generally for the worse."--Spence's Anecdotes, edit.
    Singer, p. 64.

Dean Lockier, it must be observed, was well acquainted with Dryden from 1685 to the time of
his death; and appears to speak so positively that he would seem to have acquired his knowledge
from Dryden's own information. His first introduction to that great poet arose from an observation
made in Dryden's hearing about his Mac Fleckno; and it is therefore the more likely that he
would be correctly informed as to the author's other satires. Dean Lockier was, it may be added,
a good critic; and his opinions on literary subjects are so just, that it is to be regretted
we have only very few of them.

I confess I do not attach much weight to the argument arising from the lines on the Earl of
Mulgrave himself contained in the poem. To transfer suspicion from himself, in so general a
satire, it was necessary to include his own name amongst the rest; but, though the lines are
somewhat obscure, it is, after all, as respects him, compared with the other persons mentioned,
a very gentle flagellation, and something like what children call a make-believe. Indeed Rochester,
in a letter to his friend Henry Saville (21st Nov. 1679), speaks of it as a panegyric.

On the other hand, Mulgrave expressly denied Dryden's being the author, in the lines in his
Essay on Poetry,--

    "Tho' praised and punished for another's rhymes."

and by inference claimed the poem, or at least the lines on Rochester, as his own. Dryden,
in the Preface to his Virgil, praises the Essay on Poetry in the highest terms; but says not
a word to dispute Mulgrave's statement, though he might then have safely claimed the Essay
on Satire, if his own; and though he must have been aware that, by his silence, he was virtually
resigning his sole claim to its authorship. It was subsequently included in Mulgrave's works,
and has ever since gone under the joint names of himself and Dryden.

On the question of internal evidence critics differ. Your correspondent can see in it no hand
but Dryden's; while Malone will scarcely allow that Dryden made even a few verbal alterations
in it (Life, p. 130.); and Sir Walter Scott is not inclined to admit any further participation
on the part of the great poet than "a few hints for revision," and denies its merit altogether--a
position in which I think very few, who carefully peruse it, will agree with him.

I am disposed to take a middle course between your correspondent and Dryden's two biographers,
and submit that there is quite sufficient internal evidence of joint ownership. I cannot think
such lines as--

 "I, who so wise and humble seem to be,
  Now my own vanity and pride can't see;"

or,--

 "I, who have all this while been finding fault,
  E'en with my master who first satire taught,
  And did by that describe the task so hard,
  It seems stupendious, and above reward."

or,--

 "To tell men freely of their foulest faults,
  To laugh at their vain deeds and vainer thoughts:"

would proceed from Dryden, while it is to be noticed that the inharmonious rhymes "faults"
and "thoughts" were favourites of Mulgrave, and occur twice in his Essay on Poetry.

Neither can I doubt that the verses on Shaftesbury,--the four "will any dog;" the four "For
words and wit did anciently agree," the four "Mean in each action;" the two "Each pleasure
has its price"--are Dryden's additions, with many others, which a careful reader will instantly
appropriate.

I can find no sufficient authority for the statement of Malone and Sir W. Scott, that Pope
revised the Essay on Satire. It is well known he corrected that on Poetry.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

    Manchester, Feb. 10. 1851.

{147}

       *       *       *       *       *

FOUNDATION-STONE OF ST. MARK'S AT VENICE.

(Vol. iii., p. 88.)

I recollect having seen the stone in question in the collection of the late Mr. Douce, in whose
possession it had been for some years before his communication of it to the Society of Antiquaries.
It is quite evident that he was satisfied of its authenticity, and it was most probably an
accidental purchase from some dealer in antiquities, who knew nothing about it. I happen to
know that it remained in the hands of Sir Henry Ellis at the time of Mr. Douce's death, and
your correspondent H. C. R. will most probably find it among the other collections of Mr. Douce
now in the museum at Goodrich Castle.

The doubt expressed by your correspondent is evidently founded upon the engraving and accompanying
paper in the 26th volume of the Archæologia; and as it conveys such a grave censure of the
judgment of the director of the council and secretaries of the Antiquarian Society, it appears
to me that it is incumbent upon him to satisfy his doubts by seeing the stone itself, and,
if he should be convinced of his error, to make the amende honorable.

It is to be regretted that he did not state "the points which have suggested this notion of
its being a hoax." For my own part, I cannot see the motive for such a falsification; and if
it is one, it is the contrivance of some one who had more epigraphic skill than is usually
found on such occasions.

There is nothing in the objection of your correspondent as to the size and form of the stone
which would have any weight, and it is not necessary to suppose that it "must have been loose
in the world for 858 years." On pulling down the old church, the foundation-stone in which
this was imbedded may have been buried with the rubbish, and exhumed in comparatively recent
times. It had evidently fallen into rude and ignorant hands, and suffered by being violently
detached from the stone in which it was imbedded.

Every one who knew the late Mr. Douce must have full confidence in his intimate knowledge of
mediæval antiquity, and would not easily be led to imagine that he could be deceived on a point
like this; but are we to presume, from a vague idea of your correspondent's, that the executive
body of the Society of Antiquaries would fail to detect a forgery of this nature? I believe
that nothing can now be ascertained regarding the history of this stone, or how it came into
the possession of Mr. Douce. Sir Samuel enumerates it amongst "Miscellaneous Antiquities,"
No. 2., in his interesting Inventory of this Collection, given in the Gentleman's Magazine,
Feb., 1835, p. 198. The Doucean Museum comprises, probably, the finest series of specimens
of sculpture in ivory existing in any collection in England. The Limoges enamels are also highly
deserving of notice.

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTOIRE DES SÉVARAMBES.

(Vol. iii., pp. 4. and 72.)

I am not sufficiently familiar with Vossius or his works to form any opinion as to the accuracy
of the conclusion which MR. CROSSLEY has arrived at. There is at least much obscurity in the
matter, to which I have long paid some little attention.

My Copy is entitled,--

    "The History of the Sevarambians: A People of the South continent. In
    Five Parts. Containing an Account of the Government, &c. Translated
    from the Memoirs of Capt. Siden, who lived fifteen years amongst
    them. Lond. 1738." (8vo. pp. xxiii. and 412.)

I have given this to show how it differs from that spoken of by MR. C. as being in two parts,
by Capt. Thos. Liden, and not a reprint, but a translation from the French, which Lowndes says
was "considerably altered and enlarged."

If this be so, we can hardly ascribe to Vossius the edition of 1738. The preface intimates
that the papers were written in Latin, French, Italian, and Dutch, and placed in the editor's
hands in England, on his promising to methodise them and put them all into one language; but
I do not observe the slightest allusion to the work having previously appeared either in English
or French, although we find that Barbier, in his Dict. des Anon., gives the French edit. 1
pt. Paris, 1677; 2 pt. Paris, 1678 et 1679, 2 vols. 12mo.; Nouvelle edit. Amsterdam, 1716,
2 vols. 12mo.; and ascribes it to Denis Vairasse d'Alais.

There is a long account of this work in Dict. Historique, par Marchand: à la Haye, 1758, fo.
sub. nom., Allais, as the author, observing--

    "Il y a diversité d'opinions touchant la langue en laquelle il a été
    écrit ou composé."

The earliest he mentions is the English one of 1675, and an edition in the French, "à Paris,
1677;" which states on the title, Traduit de l'Anglois, whereas the second part is "imprimée
à Paris chez l'Auteur, 1678," from which Marchand concludes that Allais was the writer, adding,--

    "On n'a peut-être jamais vu de Fiction composée avec plus d'art et plus
    d'industrie, et il faut avouer {148} qu'il y en a peu où le
    vraisemblable soit aussi ingénieusement et aussi adroitement conservé."

Wm. Taylor, of Norwich, writes to Southey, asking,--

    "Can you tell me who wrote the History of the Sevarambians? The book
    is to me curious. Wieland steals from it so often, that it must have
    been a favourite in his library; if I had to impute the book by guess,
    I would fix on Maurice Ashby, the translator of Xenophon's Cyropædia,
    as the author."

to which Southey replies,--

    "Of the Sevarambians I know nothing!" (See Gent. Mag. N.S. xxi. p.
    355.)

Sir W. Scott, in his Memoirs of Swift, p. 304. (edit. 1834), speaking of Gulliver's Travels, says--

    "A third volume was published by an unblushing forger, as early as
    1727, without printer's name, a great part of which is unacknowledged
    plunder from a work entitled Hist. des Sévarambes, ascribed to Mons.
    Alletz, suppressed in France and other Catholic kingdoms on account of
    its deistical opinions."

It would seem from this, that Sir Walter was not aware of the English work, or knew much of
its origin or the author.

F. R. A.

Histoire des Sévarambes.--The second edition of Gulliver's Travels, entitled Travels into several
Remote Nations of the World, by Lemuel Gulliver, 2 vols. 8vo., London, 1727, is accompanied
with a spurious third volume, printed at London in the same year, with a similar title-page,
but not professing to be a second edition. This third volume is divided into two parts: the
first part consists, first, of an Introduction in pp. 20; next, of two chapters, containing
a second voyage to Brobdingnag, which are followed by four chapters, containing a voyage to
Sporunda. The second part consists of six chapters, containing a voyage to Sevarambia, a voyage
to Monatamia, a voyage to Batavia, a voyage to the Cape, and a voyage to England. The whole
of the third volume, with the exception of the introduction and the two chapters relating to
Brobdingnag, is derived from the Histoire des Sévarambes, either in its English or French version.

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOUCHING FOR THE EVIL.

(Vol. iii., pp. 42. 93.)

There is ample evidence that the French monarchs performed the ceremony of touching for the evil.

In a MS. in the University Library, Cambridge[18], is this memorandum:--

    "The Kings of England and Fraunce by a peculiar guift cure the King's
    evill by touching them with their handes, and so doth the seaventh
    sonne."--Ant. Miraldus, p. 384.

Fuller intimates that St. Louis was the first king of France who healed the evil. "So witnesseth
Andrew Chasne, a French author, and others."[19]

Speaking of the illness of Louis XI., "at Forges neere to Chinon," in March, 1480, Philip de
Commines says:

    "After two daies he recovered his speech and his memory after a sort:
    and because he thought no man understood him so wel as my selfe, his
    pleasure was that I should alwaies be by him, and he confessed himselfe
    to the officiall in my presence, otherwise they would never have
    understood one another. He had not much to say, for he was shriven not
    long before, because the Kings of Fraunce use alwaies to confesse
    themselves when they touch those that be sick of the King's evill,
    which he never failed to do once a weeke. If other Princes do not the
    like, they are to blame, for continuall a great number are troubled
    with that disease."[20]

Pierre Desrey, in his Great Chronicles of Charles VIII., has the following passage relating
to that monarch's proceedings at Rome in January, 1494-5:--

    "Tuesday the 20th, the king heard mass in the French chapel, and
    afterwards touched and cured many afflicted with the king's evil, to
    the great astonishment of the Italians who witnessed the miracle."[21]

And speaking of the king at Naples, in April, 1495, the same chronicler says:--

    "The 15th of April, the king, after hearing mass in the church of the
    Annonciada, was confessed, and then touched and cured great numbers
    that were afflicted with the evil--a disorder that abounded much all
    over Italy--when the spectators were greatly edified at the powers of
    such an extraordinary gift.

    *   *   *   *   *

    "On Easter day, the 19th of April, the king was confessed in the church
    of St. Peter, adjoining to his lodgings, and then touched for the evil
    a second time."[22]

Fuller, in remarking upon the cure of the king's evil by the touch of our English monarchs,
observes:--

    "The kings of France share also with those of England in this
    miraculous cure. And Laurentius reports, that when Francis I., king of
    France, was kept prisoner in Spain, he, notwithstanding his exile and
    restraint, daily cured infinite multitudes of people of that disease;
    according to this epigram:

      'Hispanos inter sanat rex chæradas, estque
        Captivus Superis gratus, ut antè fuit.'

     'The captive king the evil cures in Spain:
      Dear, as before, he doth to God remain.'

    "So it seemeth his medicinal quality is affixed not {149} to his
    prosperity, but person; so that during his durance, he was fully free
    to exercise the same."[23]

Cavendish, relating what took place on Cardinal Wolsey's embassy to Francis I., in 1527, has
the following passage:--

    "And at his [the king's] coming in to the bishop's palace [at Amiens],
    where he intended to dine with my Lord Cardinal, there sat within a
    cloister about two hundred persons diseased with the king's evil, upon
    their knees. And the king, or ever he went to dinner, provised every of
    them with rubbing them and blessing them with his bare hands, being
    bareheaded all the while; after whom followed his almoner distributing
    of money unto the persons diseased. And that done, he said certain
    prayers over them, and then washed his hands, and so came up into his
    chamber to dinner, where as my lord dined with him."[24]

Laurentius, cited by Fuller in the page already given, was, it seems, physician in ordinary
to King Henry IV. of France. In a treatise entitled De Mirabili Strumarum Curatione, he stated
that the kings of England never cured the evil. "To cry quits with him," Dr. W. Tucker, chaplain
to Queen Elizabeth, in his Charismate, denied that the kings of France ever originally cured
the evil

    "but per aliquam propaginem, 'by a sprig of right,' derived from the
    primitive power of our English kings, under whose jurisdiction most of
    the French provinces were once subjected."[25]

Louis XVI., immediately after his coronation at Rheims, in 1775, went to the Abbey of St. Remi
to pay his devotions, and to touch for the evil. The ceremony took place in the Abbey Park,
and is thus described in a paper entitled Coronation of the Kings of France prior to the Revolution,
by Charles White, Esq.:--

    "Two thousand four hundred individuals suffering under this affliction,
    having been assembled in rows in the park, his majesty, attended by the
    household physicians, approached the first on the right. The
    physician-in-chief then placed his hand upon the patient's head, whilst
    a captain of the guards held the hands of the latter joined before his
    bosom. The king, with his head uncovered, then touched the patient by
    making the sign of the cross upon his face, exclaiming, 'May God heal
    thee! The king touches thee.' The whole two thousand four hundred
    having been healed in a similar manner, and the grand almoner having
    distributed alms to each in succession, three attendants, called chefs
    de goblet, presented themselves with golden salvers, on which were
    three embroidered napkins. The first, steeped in vinegar, was then
    offered to the king by Monsieur; the second, dipped in plain water, was
    presented by the Count d'Artois; and the third, moistened with orange
    water, was banded by the Duke of Orleans."[26]

The power of the seventh son to heal the evil (mentioned in the MS. I have cited) is humourously
alluded to in the Tatler (No. 11.). I subjoin the passage, which occurs in a letter signed
"D. Distaff."

I imagine that by the seventh son is meant the seventh son of a seventh son.

C. H. COOPER.

    Cambridge, Feb. 4. 1851.

P.S. Since the above was written, I have observed the following notice of the work of Laurentius
in Southey's Common Place Book, 4th Series, 478. (apparently from a bookseller's catalogue):

    "Laurentius (And.) De Mirabili Strumas Sanandi VI. Solis Galliæ Regibus
    Christianissimis divinitas concessa, (fine copy,) 12s. Paris, 1609.

    "This copy possesses the large folded engraving of Henry IV., assisted
    by his courtiers in the ceremony of curing the king's evil."

[Footnote 18: Dd. 2. 41. fo. 38 b.]

[Footnote 19: Fuller, Church History, edit. 1837, i. 228.]

[Footnote 20: Danett's Translation. edit. 1614, p. 203.]

[Footnote 21: Monstrelet edit. 1845, ii. 471.]

[Footnote 22: Ibid. 476.]

[Footnote 23: Fuller, Church History, edit. 1837, i. 227.]

[Footnote 24: Cavendish, Life of Wolsey, edit. Singer, 1825, vol. i. p. 104.]

[Footnote 25: Fuller, Church History, edit. 1837, i. pp. 227, 228.]

[Footnote 26: New Monthly Magazine, vol. liii. p. 160.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Forged Papal Bulls (Vol. ii., p. 491.).--In your Number, 20th Dec., J. E. inquires where is
the instrument for counterfeiting the seal of the Pope's Bulls, which was dredged up from the
ruins of old London Bridge. It is in my possession, and your correspondent will find an account
of it, with woodcuts of the instrument itself and the seal, in the Proceedings of the Archæological
Association, 11th Feb. 1846.

GEO. R. CORNER.

    Eltham.

Obeism.--As your correspondent T. H. (Vol. iii., p. 59.) desires "any information" on the subject
of Obeism, in the absence of more and better, I offer my mite: that in the early part of this
century it was very common among the slave-population in the West Indies, especially on the
remoter estates--of course of African origin--not as either a "religion" or a "rite," but rather
as a superstition; a power claimed by its professors, and assented to by the patients, of causing
good or evil to, or averting it from them; which was of course always for a "consideration"
of some sort, to the profit, whether honorary, pecuniary, or other, of the dispenser. It is
by the pretended influence of certain spells, charms, ceremonies, amulets worn, or other such
incantations, as practised with more or less diversity by the adepts, the magicians and conjurers,
the "false prophets" of all ages and countries.

{150}

On this matter, a curious phenomenon to investigate would be, the process by which the untonsured
neophyte is converted into the bonneted doctor; the progress and stages of his mind in the
different phases of the practice; how he begins by deceiving himself, to end in deceiving others;
the first uninquiring ignorance; the gradual admission of ideas, what he is taught or left
to imagine; the faith, of what is fancied to be so, the mechanical belief; then the confusion
of thought from the intrusion of doubt and uncertainty; the adoption of some undefined notions;
and, finally, actual unbelief; followed by designed and systematic injustice in the practice
of what first was taken up in sincerity, though even this now perhaps is not unmixed with some
fancy of its reality. For this must be the gradation more or less gone through in all such
things, whether Obeism, Fetichism, the Evil Eye, or any sort of sorcery or witchcraft, in whatever
variousness of form practised; cheats on the one hand, and dupes on the other the primum mobile
in every case being, some shape or other of gain to the practitioner.

It seems, however, hardly likely that Obeism should now be "rapidly gaining ground again" there,
from the greater spread of Christianity and diffusion of enlightenment and information in general
since the slave-emancipation; as also from the absence of its feeding that formerly accompanied
every fresh importation from the coast: as, like mists before the mounting sun, all such impostures
must fade away before common sense, truth, and facts, whenever these are allowed their free
influence.

The conclusion, then, would rather be, that Obeism is on the decline only more apparent, when
now seen, than formerly, from its attracting greater notice.

M.

Obeahism.--In answer to T. H.'s Query regarding Obeahism, though I cannot answer his question
fully, as to its origin, &c., yet I have thought that what I can communicate may serve to piece
out the more valuable information of your better informed correspondents. I was for a short
time in the island of Jamaica, and from what I could learn there of Obeahism, the power seemed
to be obtained by the Obeah-man or woman, by working upon the fears of their fellow-negroes,
who are notoriously superstitious. The principal charm seemed to be, a collection of feathers,
coffin furniture, and one or two other things which I have forgotten. A small bundle of this,
hung over the victim's door, or placed in his path, is supposed to have the power of bringing
ill luck to the unfortunate individual. And if any accident, or loss, or sickness should happen
to him about the time, it is immediately imputed to the dreaded influence of Obeah! But I have
heard of cases where the unfortunate victim has gradually wasted away, and died under this
powerful spell, which, I have been informed by old residents in the island, is to be attributed
to a more natural cause, namely, the influence of poison. The Obeah-man causes a quantity of
ground glass to be mixed with the food of the person who has incurred his displeasure; and
the result is said to be a slow but sure and wasting death! Perhaps some of your medical readers
can say whether an infusion of powdered glass would have this effect. I merely relate what
I have been told by others.

While speaking of the superstition of the negroes, I may mention a very curious one, very generally
received and universally believed among them, called the rolling calf, which, if you wish,
I will give you an account of in my next.

D. P. W.

Pillgarlick (Vol. ii., p. 393.; Vol. iii., pp. 42. 74.).--It seems to me that the passage quoted
from Skelton by F. S. Q. completely elucidates the meaning of this word. Let us premise that,
according to all principles of English etymology, pill-garlick is as likely to mean "the pillar
of garlick" as to be a syncopated form of "pill'd garlick." Now we see from Skelton's verse
that in his time the peeling of garlick was proverbially a degraded employment--one which was
probably thrust off upon the lowest inmate of the servants' hall, in an age when garlick entered
largely into the composition of all made dishes. The disagreeable nature of the occupation
is sufficient to account for this. Accordingly we may well suppose that the epithet "a poor
pill-garlick" would be applied to any person, in miserable circumstances, who might be ready
to undertake mean employment for a trifling gratuity.

This, I think, satisfactorily answers the original question, "Whence comes the expression?"
The verse quoted by F. S. Q. satisfactorily establishes the orthography, viz., pill garlick.
A Query of some interest still remains--In what author do we first find the compound word?

R. D. H.

Pillgarlick (Vol. iii., p. 74.).--That to pill is merely another form of the word to peel,
appears from the book of Genesis, c. xxx., v. 37, 38: "And Jacob took him rods of green poplar,
and of the hazel and chesnut tree: and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear
which was in the rods. And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks," &c.

On first seeing your correspondent's Query, it occurred to me that perhaps "poor Pillgarlick"
was in some way akin to "Pillicock," of whom Edgar, in King Lear, records that "Pillicock sat
on Pillicock's hill;" but the connexion between these two worthies, if any, I confess myself
quite unable to trace.

I conceive that Pillgarlick means "peeler of garlick," i.e. scullion; or, to borrow a phrase
from a witness in a late case at the Middlesex sessions, {151} which has attracted some attention,
"a person in a low way of life."

The passage from Skelton, cited by your correspondent F. S. Q., may, I think, be explained
thus: the will is so powerful in man's moral constitution, that the reason must content itself
with an inferior place (as that of a scullion compared with that of the master of the house);
or if it attempts to assert its proper place, it will find it a hopeless endeavour--as hopeless
as that of "rosting a stone."

X. Z.

Hornbooks (Vol. ii., pp. 167. 236.).--In answer to MR. TIMBS, I send you the following particulars
of a Hornbook in the British Museum, which I have this morning examined.

It is marked in the new catalogue (Press Mark 828, a. 55.). It contains on one side the "Old
English Alphabet"--the capitals in two lines, the small letters in one. The fourth line contains
the vowels twice repeated (perhaps to doubly impress upon the pupil the necessity of learning
them). Next follow, in two columns, our ancient companions, "ab, eb, ib," &c., and "ba, be,
bi," &c. After the formula of exorcism comes the "Lord's Prayer" (which is given somewhat differently
to our present version), winding up with "i. ii. iii. iiii. v. vi. vii. viii. ix. x." On the
other side is the following whimsical piece of composition:--

    "What more could be wished for, even by a literary gourmand under the
    Tudors, than to be able to Read and Spell; To repeat that holy charm
    before which fled all unholy Ghosts, Goblins, or even the old Gentleman
    himself to the very bottom of the Red Sea, and to say that immortal
    prayer, which secures heaven to all who ex animo use it, and those
    mathematical powers, by knowing units, from which spring countless
    myriads."

Now for my "Query." Can any of your correspondents oblige me with the probable date of this
literally literary treasure, or refer me to any source of information on the subject?

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

Bacon (Vol. iii., p. 41.).--The explanation given in a former number from old Verstegan, of
the original meaning of the family name of Bacon, and the application of the word to the unclean
beast, with the corroboration from the pages of Collins's Baronetage, is very interesting.
The word, as applied to the salted flesh of the dead animal, is another instance of the introduction
of a foreign term for a dead animal, in opposition to the Anglo-Saxon name of the living animal.
It was used in this sense in France at a very early period; and Ampère, in his Histoire Littéraire
de la France avant le 12ième Siècle, iii. 482., mentions the word among other instances of
Gallicisms in the Latin of the Carolingian diplomas and capitularies, and quotes the capitularies
of Charles the Fat. Bacco, porc salé, from the vulgar word bacon, jambon. The word was in use
as late as the seventeenth century in Dauphiné, and the bordering cantons of Switzerland, and
is cited in the Moyen de Parvenir, ch. 38. The passage is curious, as it would seem to intimate
that Lord Bacon was one of the personages introduced in that very extraordinary production
of the Rabelaisian school.

I have frequently heard the word employed by the country people in the markets of Geneva.

J. B. D.

Lachrymatories (Vol. ii., pp. 326. 448.).--In illustration of the question as to the probable
use of those small vases so commonly found in sepulchral monuments, I extract the following
from Wayfaring Sketches among the Greeks and Turks. 2d edit. Introduction, pp. 6, 7. London:
Chapman, 1849.

    "The poorest of the sepulchres is certain to contain (in Greece) at
    least a few of these beautiful vases, the lachrymatories, &c.

    *   *   *   *   *

    When found in the graves of females, their form would generally seem to
    indicate that they had been used for containing scents, and other
    requisites of the toilet; in one that was found not long since, there
    was a preparation evidently (?) of rouge or some such paint for the
    face, &c., the mark left by the pressure of two fingers of a small
    hand was distinctly visible (?)."

To me, ignorant as I am of antiquarian matters, this sounds very curious; and I send it you
in case you may find it worthy of insertion, as provocative of discussion, and with the utilitarian
idea that I may gain some information on the subject.

C. D. HAMONT.

    Greenock, Jan. 16. 1851.

Scandal against Queen Elizabeth (Vol. iii., p. 11.).--An intercepted letter, apparently from
a popish priest, preserved among the Venetian correspondence in the State Paper Office, gives
the following account of the death-bed of the Queen; which, as illustrative of the observations
of your correspondent CUDYN GYWN, may not be uninteresting:--

    "London, 9 Martii, 1603.

    "About 10 dayes synce dyed the Countess of Notingham. The Queene loved
    the Countess very much, and hath seemed to take her death very
    heavelye, remayning euer synce in a deepe melancholye, w^{th} conceipte
    of her own death, and complayneth of many infirmyties, sodainlye to
    haue ouertaken her, as impost[=u]mecoñ in her head, aches in her bones,
    and continuall cold in her legges, besides notable decay in iudgem^t
    and memory, insomuch as she cannot attend to any discourses of
    governm^t and state, but delighteth to heare some of the 100 merry
    tales, and such like, and to such is uery attentiue; at other tymes
    uery impatient, and testye, so as none of the Counsayle, but the
    secretary, dare come in her presence."

May we not class this story of her majesty's {152} predilection for the hundred merry tales
among the "black relations of the Jesuits?"

SPES.

Meaning of Cefn.--What is the meaning of the Welsh word "Cefn" used as prefix?

JOSEPHUS.

1. The first meaning of the word "Cefn" is, "the back;" e.g. "Cefn dyn," "the back of a man."

2. It also signifies "the upper part of the ridge of some elevated and exposed land." As a
prefix, its meaning depends upon the fact whether the word attached to it be an adjective or
a substantive. If an adjective be attached, it has the second signification; i.e. it is the
upper part of some exposed land, having the particular quality involved in the adjective, such
as, "Cefndu," "Cefngwyn," "Cefncoch," the black, white, or red headland.

When a substantive is attached, it has the first signification; i.e. it is the back of the
thing signified by the substantive; such as, "Cefnllys," the back of the court.

E. L.

Portrait of Archbishop Williams (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--There is a portrait of this prelate in
the library of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, in the Cloisters. The greater part of the
archbishop's library was given to this library, but only one volume of it seems to have been
preserved. It is of this library the remark is made in J. Beeverell, Délices de la Grande Bretagne,
p. 847., 12mo., 1707:

    "Il se trouve dans le cloistre une bibliothèque publique, qui s'ouvre
    soir et matin pendant les séances des Cours de Justice dans
    Westminstre."

[mu].

Sir Alexander Cumming (Vol. iii., p. 39.).--In answer to an inquiry relative to Sir Alexander
Cumming, of Culter, I may refer to the Scottish Journal (Menzies, Edin. 1848) of Topography,
Antiquities, Traditions, &c., vol. ii. p. 254., where an extract from a MS. autobiography of
the baronet is given. The work in which this occurs is little known; but, as a repertory of
much curious and interesting information, deserved a more extensive circulation than it obtained.
It stopped with the second volume, and is now somewhat scarce, as the unsold copies were disposed
of for waste paper.

Pater-noster Tackling (Vol. iii., p. 89.).--Pater-noster fishing-tackle, so called in the shops,
is used to catch fish (perch, for instance) which take the bait at various distances between
the surface and the bottom of the water. Accordingly, hooks are attached to a line at given
intervals throughout its length, with leaden shots, likewise regularly distributed, in order
to sink it, and keep it extended perpendicularly in the water.

This regularity of arrangement, and the resemblance of the shots to beads, seems to have caused
the contrivance to have been, somewhat fancifully, likened to a chaplet or rosary. In a rosary
there is a bead longer than the rest, for distinction's sake called the Pater-noster; from
whence that name applies to a rosary; and, therefore, to anything likened to it; and, therefore,
to the article of fishing-tackle in question.

The word pater-noster, i.e. pater-noster-wise, is an heraldic term (vide Ash's Dictionary),
applied to beads disposed in the form of a cross.

ROBERT SNOW.

Welsh Words for Water (Vol. iii., p. 30.).--

    "It is quite surprising," says Sharon Turner (Trans. of the Royal
    Society of Literature, vol. i. pt. i. p. 97.), "to observe that, in
    all the four quarters of the world, many nations signify this liquid by
    a vocable of one or more syllables, from the letter M."

He mentions the Hebrew word for it, mim; in Africa he finds twenty-eight examples, in Asia
sixteen, in South America five, in North America three, in Europe three; and elsewhere, in
Canary Islands one, in New Zealand one. He adds--

    "We trace the same radical in the Welsh more, the sea, and in the
    Latin mare, humor, humidus.[27]

    "All these people cannot be supposed to have derived their sound from
    each other. It must have descended to them from some primitive source,
    common to all."

From the expression used by J. W. H., "the connexion of the Welsh dwr with the Greek [Greek:
hudôr] is remarkable," he appears not to have known that Vezron found so many resemblances
in the Doric or Laconic dialect, and the Celtic, that he thereupon raised the theory that the
Lacedæmonians and the Celts were of the same--the Titanic--stock.

T. J.

[Footnote 27: He may have added the Armoric or Breton mor, mar; and the Irish muir, mara.]

Early Culture of the Imagination (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--The germ of the thought alluded to by
MR. GATTY is as ancient as the time of Plato, and may be found in the Republic, book ii. c.
17. If this will aid MR. GATTY in his research, it is gladly placed at his disposal by

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

    January 20. 1851.

Venville (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--R. E. G. inquires respecting the origin of this word, as applied
to certain tenants round Dartmoor Forest. The name is peculiar to that district, and is applied
chiefly to certain vills or villages (for the most part also parishes), and to certain tenements
within them, which pay fines to the Lord of Lidford and Dartmoor, viz. the Prince of Wales,
as Duke of Cornwall. The fines are supposed to be due in respect either of rights of common
on the forest, or of trespasses committed by cattle on it; for the point is a vexata quæstio
between the lord and tenants of Dartmoor and the tenants of the Venville lands, which lie along
the boundaries of it. {153} In the accounts rendered to the lord of these fines, there was
a distinct title, headed "Fines Villarum" when these accounts were in Latin; and I think it
cannot be doubted that the lands and tenures under this title came to be currently called Finevill
lands from this circumstance. Hence Fenvill, Fengfield, or Venvill; the last being now the
usual spelling and pronunciation. R. E. G. may see a specimen of these accounts, and further
observations on them, in Mr. Rowe's very instructive Perambulation of Dartmoor, published a
year or two ago at Plymouth.

E. S.

Cum Grano Salis (Vol. iii., p. 88.) simply means, with a grain of allowance; spoken of propositions
which require qualification. The Cambridge man's explanation, therefore, does not suit the
meaning. I have always supposed that salis was added to denote a small grain. I find in Forcellini
that the Romans called a small flaw in crystals sal.

C. B.

Hoops (Vol. iii., p. 88.).--The examples given in Johnson's article Farthingale will sufficiently
answer the question. Farthingales are mentioned in Latimer with much indignant eloquence:

    "I trow Mary had never a verdingale."

If the question had been, not whether they were in use as early as 1651, but whether they were
in use in 1651, perhaps there would have been more difficulty, for they do not appear in Hollar's
dresses, 1640.

C. B.

Cranmer's Descendants (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--It may be of some interest to C. D. F. to be informed,
that the newspapers of the time recorded the death of Mr. Bishop Cranmer of Wivelescombe, co.
Somerset, on the 8th April, 1831, at the age of eighty-eight. He is said to have been a direct
descendant of the martyred archbishop, to whose portraits he bore a strong personal resemblance.

J. D. S.

Shakspeare's Use of the Word "Captious" (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--Why may not the word have the
same meaning as it has now? A captious person is not primarily a deceitful person, but either
one who catches at any argument to uphold his own cause, or, more generally, one who catches
or cavils at arguments or expressions used by another, and fastens a frivolous objection on
them; one who takes exception to a point on paltry and insufficient grounds:

 "Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
  I still pour in the waters of my love."

i.e. yet into this sieve, which catches at, and yet never holds them, I still pour the waters
of my love.

There seems to me a double meaning of the word captious, indicating an under-current of thought
in the author; first, the literal sense, then the inferential: "this sieve catches at and seems
as if it would intercept the waters of my love, but takes me in, and disappoints me, because
it will not uphold them." The objection to explaining captious by simply fallacious, is that
the word means this by inference or consequence, rather than primarily. Because one who is
eager to controvert, i.e. who is captious, generally, but not always, acts for a sophistical
purpose and means to deceive. Cicero, I believe, uses fallax and captiosus as distinct, not
as synonymous, terms.

E. A. D.

Boiling to Death (Vol. ii., p. 519.).--

    "Impoysonments, so ordinary in Italy, are so abominable among English,
    as 21 Hen. 8. it was made high treason, though since repealed; after
    which the punishment for it was to be put alive in a caldron of water,
    and there boiled to death: at present it is felony without benefit of
    clergy."--Chamberlayne's State of England,--an old copy, without a
    title-page.

Judging from the list of bishops and maids of honour, I believe the date to be 1669.

WEDSECNARF.

Dozen of Bread (Vol. ii., p. 49.).--The Duchess of Newcastle says of her Nature's Picture:

    "In this volume there are several feigned stories, &c. Also there are
    some morals and some dialogues; but they are as the advantage loaf of
    bread to the baker's dozen." 1656.

WEDSECNARF.

Friday Weather (Vol. iii., p. 7.).--A very old friend of mine, a Shropshire lady, tells me
that her mother (who was born before 1760) used to say that Friday was always the fairest,
or the foulest, day of the week.

WEDSECNARF.

Saint Paul's Clock (Vol. iii., p. 40.).--In reply to MR. CAMPKIN'S Query, I send you the following
extract from Easton's Human Longevity (London, 1799):

    "James Hatfield died in 1770, aged 105. Was formerly a soldier: when on
    duty as a centinel at Windsor, one night, at the expiration of his
    guard, he heard St. Paul's clock, London, strike thirteen strokes
    instead of twelve, and not being relieved as he expected he fell
    asleep; in which situation he was found by the succeeding guard, who
    soon after came to relieve him; for such neglect he was tried by a
    court-martial, but pleading that he was on duty his legal time, and
    asserting, as a proof, the singular circumstance of hearing St. Paul's
    clock strike thirteen strokes, which, upon inquiry, proved true--he was
    in consequence acquitted."

J. B. COLMAN.

Lunardi (Vol. ii., p. 469.).--I remember seeing Lunardi's balloon pass over the town of Ware,
previous to its fall at Standon. I have seen the moonstone described by your correspondent
C. J. F., but all that I can remember of an old song on the occasion is. "They thought it had
been the man in the moon," alluding to the men in the fields, who ran away frightened. But
a servant girl had {154} the courage to take the rope thrown out by Lunardi, and was well rewarded.
It caused a great sensation, and many of the principal inhabitants of Ware and Wadesmill assembled
with Lunardi at the Feathers Inn, at the latter place.

J. TAYLOR.

    Newick, Sussex.

Outline in Painting.--J. O. W. H. (Vol. i., p. 318.) and H. C. K. (Vol. iii., p. 63.) are earnestly
referred, for resolution of their doubts, to the work by Mr. Ruskin, in 2 vols. large 8vo.,
entitled Modern Painters, by a Graduate of Oxford, published by Smith and Elder, 1846.

ROBERT SNOW.

Handbell before a Corpse (vol. iii., p. 68.).--Your correspondent [Hebrew: B]. has too inconsiderately
dismissed the Query which he has undertaken to answer touching the custom of ringing a handbell
in advance of a funeral procession. He says, "I have never considered it as anything but a
cast of the bell-man's office, to add more solemnity to the occasion."

The custom is invariably observed throughout Italy, and is common in France and Spain. I have
witnessed at least some hundreds of funerals in various cities and villages of Piedmont, Sardinia,
Tuscany, the Roman States, Naples, Elba, and Sicily; and in Malta; yet never knew I one without
the handbell.

Its object, as first explained to me in Florence, is to clear the way for the procession; to
remind passengers and loiterers to take off their hats; and to call the pious to their doors
and windows to gaze upon the emblems of mortality, and to say a prayer for the repose of the
departed soul.

NOCAB.

Brandon the Juggler (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--Your correspondent T. CR. is referred to Scot's Discoverie
of Witchcraft, p. 308. (edit. 1584) for a notice of this person and his pigeon.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

"Words are Men's Daughters" (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--This line is taken from Dr. Madden's Boulter's
Monument (Dublin, 1745, 8vo.), a poem which was revised by Dr. Johnson, but to which little
attention has been paid by his biographers. Mr. Croker observes (edit. of Boswell, 1848, p.
107. note)--

    "Dr. Madden wrote very bad verses. The few lines in Boulter's monument
    which rise above mediocrity may be attributed to Johnson."

Those who take the trouble to refer to the poem itself, will, notwithstanding Mr. Croker's
hasty criticism, find a great many fine and vigorous passages, in which the hand of Johnson
is clearly distinguishable, and which ought not to be allowed to remain unnoticed. Perhaps
on a future occasion I may, in support of this opinion, give some specimens from the poem.
The line as to which T. J. inquires,--

    "Words are men's daughters, but God's Sons are things,"--

and which is in allusion to Genesis vi. 2. 4., is, I entertain no doubt, one of Dr. Johnson's
insertions.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

"Fine by degrees, and beautifully less" (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--This line is from Prior's "Henry
and Emma," a poem, upon the model of the "Nut-brown Maid." I copy part of the passage in which
it occurs, for the sake of any of your readers who may be lovers of context, and may not have
the poem at hand to refer to.

     "Henry [addressing Emma].
 "Vainly thou tell'st me what the woman's care
  Shall in the wildness of the woods prepare;                  420
  Thou, ere thou goest, unhappiest of thy kind,
  Must leave the habit and the sex behind.
  No longer shall thy comely tresses break
  In flowing ringlets on thy snowy neck;
  Or sit behind thy head, an ample round,
  In graceful braids with various ribbon bound:
  No longer shall the bodice aptly lac'd
  From thy full bosom to thy slender waist,
  That air and harmony of shape express,
  Fine by degrees, and beautifully less:                       430
  Nor shall thy lower garments' artful plait,
  From thy fair side dependent to thy feet,
  Arm their chaste beauties with a modest pride,
  And double every charm they seek to hide."

C. FORBES.

    Temple, Feb. 10.

    [We are also indebted for replies to this Query to Robert Snow, Fras.
    Crossley, A. M., J. J. M., A. H., S. T., E. S. T. T., V., W. K., R. B.,
    and other correspondents.

    And J. H. M. tells us, "The late Lord Ellenborough applied the line
    somewhat ignobly, when speaking of bristles, in a dispute between two
    brushmakers."]

"The Soul's dark Cottage" (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--The couplet "EFFARESS"
inquires for, is to be found in Waller's poems.
  Leaving the old, both worlds at once they view,
  That stand upon the threshold of the new."

{155}

There is another couplet worth citing--

 "The seas are quiet, when the winds give o'er;
  So calm are we, when passions are no more."

How different were the effusions of Waller's earlier muse! In the year 1645, Humphrey Mosley
published "Poems, &c., written by Mr. Ed. Waller, of Beaconsfield, Esquire, lately a Member
of the Honourable House of Commons." The title-page also states that--

    "All the Lyrick Poems in this Booke were set by Mr. Henry Lawes of the
    King's Chappell, and one of his Majesties Private Musick."

Had Humphrey Mosley any presentiment of the deathless fame of Milton?

S. W. SINGER.

"The Soul's dark Cottage," &c. (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--This admired couplet can never escape
recollection. It was written by Waller. From the tenor of some preceding lines, and the place
which the verses occupy in the edition of 1693, they must be among the latest of his compositions.

BOLTON CORNEY.

    [A. H. H., R. B., C. J. R., H. G. T., and other friends have replied to
    this Query.

    The Rev. J. Sansom points out a kindred passage in his poem of Divine
    Love, canto vi. p. 249.:

     "The soul contending to that light to fly
      From her dark cell," &c.

    H. G. sends a beautiful parallel passage from Fuller (Holy State Life
    of Monica): "Drawing near her death, she sent most pious thoughts as
    harbingers to heaven, and her soul saw a glimpse of happiness through
    the chinks of her sickness-broken body." And J. H. M. informs us that
    amongst Duke's Poems is a most flattering one addressed to Waller,
    evidently allusive to the lines in question.]

"Beauty Retire" (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--The lines beginning "Beauty Retire," which Pepys set
to music, taken from the second part of the Siege of Rhodes, act iv. scene 2., are printed
in the 5th volume of the Memoirs, p. 250., 3rd edition.

I believe the music exists in the Pepysian Library, but any of the Fellows of Magdalene College
could ascertain the fact.

BRAYBROOKE.

Mythology of the Stars (Vol. iii., p. 70.).--I would here add to my recommendation of Captain
Smyth's Celestial Cycle (antè, p. 70.), that soon after it appeared it obtained for its author
the annual gold medal of the Royal Astronomical Society; and that it is a book adapted to the
exigencies of astronomers of all degrees, from the experienced astronomer, furnished with every
modern refinement of appliances and means of observation, to the humbler, but perhaps no less
zealous beginner, furnished only with a good pair of natural eyes, aided, on occasion, by the
common opera-glass. Such an observer, if he goes the right way to work, will make sure of a
high degree of entertainment and instruction, and may reasonably hope to light on a discovery
or two, worthy, even in the present day, of being recorded.

ROBERT SNOW.

Simon Bache (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--Thesaurarius Hospitii.--The office of "Thesaurarius Hospitii,"
about which A. W. H. inquires, means, I believe, "Treasurer of the Household." In Chauncy's
Hertfordshire, vol. ii. p. 102., the inscription on Simon Bache is given in the same terms
as by your correspondent. The learned author then gives, at p. 103., the epitaph on another
monument also in Knebworth Church, erected to the memory of John Hotoft, in which occur these
two lines:

 "Hospitii regis qui Thesaurarius olim
  Henrici sexti merito pollebat honore."

At p. 93. of the same volume, Sir Henry Chauncy speaks of the same John Hotoft as an eminent
man, and sheriff of the county, and adds:

    "He was also Treasurer of the King's Household afterwards; he dyed and
    was buried in the chancel of this church, where his monument remains at
    this day."

Who Simon Bache was, or how he came to be buried at Knebworth, I cannot tell. The name of "Bach"
occurs in Chauncy several times, as that of mayors and assistants, at Hertford, between 1672
and 1689.

J. H. L.

Winifreda (Vol. iii., p. 108.).--It may perhaps interest LORD BRAYBROOKE and J. H. M. to know,
that I have in my possession the copy of Dodsley's Minor Poems, which belonged to John Gilbert
Cooper, and which was bought at the sale of his grandson, the late Colonel John Gilbert-Cooper-Gardiner.
The song of "Winifreda" is at page 282. of the 4th volume; and a manuscript note, in the handwriting
of the son of the author of Letters concerning Taste, states it to have been written "by John
Gilbert Cooper." The praise bestowed by Cooper on the poem, and which J. H. M. conceives to
militate against his claim to the composition, is obviously intended to apply to the original,
and not to Cooper's elegant translation.

A.

    Newark.

Queries on Costume (Vol. iii., p. 88.).--Addison's paper in the Spectator, No. 127., seems
to be {156} conclusive that hooped petticoats were not in use so early as the year 1651. The
anecdote in connection with the subject related in Wilson's Life of De Foe, has always appeared
to me very questionable, not only on that consideration, but because Charles was at the time
a fine tall young man of more than twenty-one years of age, and at the only period that he
could have been in the neighbourhood referred to, he was on horseback and attended by at least
two persons, who were also mounted. Neither can the circumstances related be at all reconciled
with the particulars given by Clarendon and subsequent writers, who have professed to correct
the statements of that historian by authority.

J. D. S.

Antiquitas Sæculi Juventus Mundi (Vol. ii., p. 218.; Vol. iii., p. 125.).--Permit me again
to express my opinion, with due deference to the eminent authorities cited in your pages, that
the comprehensive words of Lord Bacon, "Antiquitas sæculi juventus mundi," were not borrowed
from any author, ancient or modern. But it would be a compliment which that great genius would
have been the first to ridicule, were we to affirm that no anterior writer had adopted analogous
language in expressing the benefits of "the philosophy of time." On the contrary, he would
have called our attention to the expressions of the Egyptian priest addressed to Solon, (see
a few pages beyond the one referred to in his Advancement of Learning):

    "Ye Grecians are ever children, ye have no knowledge of antiquity nor
    antiquity of knowledge."

The words of Bacon to me appear to be a condensation of the well-known dialogue in Plato's
Timæus, above quoted, as will, I hope, appear in the following paraphrase:

    "Apud vos propter inundationes ineunte modò sæculo nihil scientiarum
    est augmentationis. Quoad nos juventus mundi ac terræ Aegyptiacæ, quâ
    nulla hominum exitia fuerunt, progrediente tempore, antiquitas fit
    sæculi, et antiquissimarum rerum apud nos momumenta servantur."

T. J.

Lady Bingham (Vol. iii., p. 61.).--Lady Bingham, whose daughter, afterwards Lady Crewe, was
unsuccessfully courted by Sir Symonds D'Ewes (for which see his autobiography), was Sarah,
the daughter of John Heigham, Esq., of Gifford's Hall in Urekham Brook, Suffolk, of the same
family with Sir Clement Heigham, Knt., of Barrow, Suffolk, Speaker of the House of Commons.
She was married by banns at St. Olave's, Hart Street, Jan. 11, 1588, to Sir Richard Bingham,
Knt., of co. Dorset. She married, secondly, Edward Waldegrave, Esq., of Lawford, Essex, to
whom she was second wife, and by him had Jemima, afterwards Lady Crewe. Edward Waldegrave,
married to his first wife, Elizabeth, daughter of Bartholomew Averell, of Southminster, Essex,
had by her an only daughter, Anne, who married Drew, afterwards Sir Drew Drury, Bart., of Riddlesworth,
Norfolk. He, Edward Waldegrave, was descended from a younger branch of the family of Waldegrave,
of Smallbridge, in the parish of Bures, Suffolk, from whence descends the present Earl Waldegrave.

Lady Bingham lies buried in the chancel of Lawford church, where a stone in the floor states
her age to have been sixty-nine, and that she was buried Sept. 9. 1634. There is also another
stone in the floor for Edward Waldegrave, Esq., who married Dame Sarah Bingham, by whom he
had one daughter, Jemima, who was married to John Stearne (a mistake evidently for Stene, the
seat of James Lord Crewe). Edward Waldegrave was buried Feb. 13, 1621, aged about sixty-eight.

The large monument in Lawford church is for the father of this Edward Waldegrave, who died in 1584.

D. A. Y.

Proclamation of Langholme Fair (Vol. iii., p. 56.).--MONKBARNS wishes the meaning of the choice
expressions in the proclamation. They may be explained as follows:--Hustrin, hustling, or riotously
inclined, being so consonanted to make it alliterate with custrin, spelt by Jamieson, custroun,
and signifying a pitiful fellow. Chaucer has the word truston in this sense.

Land-louper, one who runs over the country, a vagabond.

Dukes-couper I take to be a petty dealer in ducks or poultry, and to be used in a reproachful
sense, as we find "pedlar," "jockey," &c.

Gang-y-gate swinger, a fighting man, who goes swaggering in the road (or gate); a roisterer
who takes the wall of every one. Swing is an old word for a stroke or blow.

Durdam is an old word meaning an uproar, and akin to the Welsh word dowrd. Urdam may be a corruption
of whoredom, but is more probably prefixed to the genuine word as a co-sounding expletive.

Brabblement seems to be a derivative from the Scotch verb "bra," to make a loud and disagreeable
noise (see Jamieson); and squabblement explains itself.

Lugs, ears; tacked, nailed; trone, an old word, properly signifying the public weighing-machine,
and sometimes used for the pillory.

A nail o' twal-a-penny is, of course, a nail of that size and sort of which twelve are bought
for a penny.

Until he down of his hobshanks, and up with his muckle doubs, evidently means, until he goes
down on his knees and raises his hands. Hobshanks is, I think, still in common use. Of doubs
I can give no explanation.

W. T. M.

    Edinburgh, Jan. 29th.

Burying in Church Walls (Vol. iii., p. 37.).--To {157} the examples mentioned by N. of tombs
in church walls, may be added the remarkable ones at Bottisham, Cambridgeshire. There are several
of these in the south aisle, with arches internally and externally: the wall between resting
on the coffin lid. They are, of course, coeval with the church, which is fine early Decorated.
They are considered, I believe, to be memorials of the priors of Anglesey, a neighbouring religious
house. They will, no doubt, be fully elucidated in the memoir of Bottisham and Anglesey, which
is understood to be in preparation by members of the Cambridge Antiquarian Society. At Trumpington,
in the same county, is a recessed tomb of Decorated date, in the south wall of the chancel,
externally.

C. R. M.

Defender of the Faith (Vol. ii., pp. 442. 481.; Vol. iii., pp. 9. 94.).--Should not King Edward
the Confessor's claim to defend the church as God's Vicar be added to the several valuable
notices in relation to the title Defender of the Faith, with which some of your learned contributors
have favoured us through your pages?

According to Hoveden, one of the laws adopted from the Anglo-Saxons by William was:

    "Rex autem atque vicarius Ejus ad hoc est constitutus, ut regnum
    terrenum, populum Dei, et super omnia sanctam ecclesiam, revereatur
    et ab injuriatoribus defendat," &c.

Which duty of princes was further enforced by the words--

    "Illos decet vocari reges, qui vigilant, defendunt, et regunt
    Ecclesiam Dei et populum Ejus, imitantes regem psalmographum,"
    &c.--Vid. Rogeri de Hoveden Annal., par. post., §. Regis Officium;
    ap. Rerum Anglicarum Scriptores post Bedam, ed. Francof. 1601, p. 604.
    Conf. Prynne's Chronol. Records, ed. Lond. 1666, tom i. p. 310.

This law appears always to have been received as of authority after the Conquest; and it may,
perhaps, be considered as the first seed of that constitutional church supremacy vested in
our sovereigns, which several of our kings before the Reformation had occasion to vindicate
against Papal claims, and which Henry VIII. strove to carry in the other direction, to an unconstitutional
excess.

J. SANSOM.

Sauenap, Meaning of (Vol. ii., p. 479.).--The word probably means a napkin or pinafore; the
two often, in old times, the same thing. The Cornish name for pinafore is save-all. (See Halliwell's
Arch. Dict.) I need not add that nap, napery, was a common word for linen.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

    Stockholm.

Sir Thomas Herbert's Memoirs (Vol. ii., p. 476.).--The memoirs of Charles
I. by Sir Thomas Herbert were published in 1702. Coke, and Mr. Hen. Firebrace, etc. London, Rob.
    Clavell, 1702, 8vo."

The volume, for a publication of that period, is of uncommon occurrence. It was printed, as
far as above described, "from a manuscript of the Right Reverend the Bishop of Ely, lately
deceased." The remainder of the volume consists of reprinted articles.

BOLTON CORNEY.

Robert Burton (Vol. iii., p. 106.).--The supposition that the author of the Anatomy of Melancholy
was born at Fald, Staffordshire, instead of Lindley, Leicestershire, seems probable from the
fact, that in an edition of the History of Leicestershire, by his brother William, I find that
the latter dates his preface "From Falde, neere Tutbury, Staff., Oct. 30. 1622." In this work,
also, under the head "Lindley," is given the pedigree of his family, commencing with "James
de Burton, Squier of the body to King Richard the First;" down to "Rafe Burton, of Lindley,
borne 1547; died 17 March, 1619;" leaving "Robert Burton, bachelor of divinity and student
of Christ Church, Oxon; author of the Anatomy of Melancholy; borne 8 of Febr. 1578;" and "William
Burton, author of this work (History of Leicestershire), borne 24 of Aug. 1575, now dwelling
at Falde, ann. 1622."

T. T.

    Leicester.

Drachmarus (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--If your correspondents (Nos. 66 and 67.) who have inquired
for a book called Jartuare, and for a writer named "Drachmarus," would add a little to the
length of their questions, so as not by extra-briefness to deaden the dexterity of conjecturers,
perhaps they might be nearer to the reception of replies. Many stranger things have happened
than that Drachmarus should be renovated by the context into Christian Druthmar.

Averia (Vol. iii., p. 42.).--I have long desired to know the exact meaning of averia, but I
have not met with a good explanation until lately. It is clear, however, from the following
legal expression, "Nullus distringatur per averia carucæ." Caruca is the French charrue, and
therefore averia must mean either cart-horses or oxen which draw the plough.

P.

Dragons (Vol. iii., p. 40.).--I think the Draco of the Crusaders' times must have been the
Boa constrictor. If you will look into St. Jerome's Vitas Patrum, you will find that he mentions
the trail of a "draco" seen in the sand in the Desert, which appeared as if a great beam had
been dragged along. I think it not likely that a crocodile would have {158} ventured so far
from the banks of the Nile as to be seen in the Desert.

P.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The members of the Percy Society have just received the third and concluding volume of The
Canterbury Tales of Geoffrey Chaucer, a new Text, with Illustrative Notes, edited by Thomas
Wright, Esq. It is urged as an objection to Tyrwhitt's excellent edition of the Canterbury
Tales, that one does not know his authority for any particular reading, inasmuch as he has
given what he considered the best among the different MSS. he consulted. Mr. Wright has gone
on an entirely different principle. Considering the Harleian MS. (No. 7334.) as both "the oldest
and best manuscript he has yet met with," he has "reproduced it with literal accuracy," and
for the adoption of this course Mr. Wright may plead the good example of German scholars when
editing the Nibelungen Lied. That the members of the Society approve the principle of giving
complete editions of works like the present, has been shown by the anxiety with which they
have looked for the completion of Mr. Wright's labours; and we doubt not that, if the Council
follow up this edition of the Canterbury Tales with some other of the collected works which
they have announced--such as those of Hoccleve, Taylor the Water Poet, &c.--they will readily
fill up any vacancies which may now exist in their list of members.

Mr. Parker has just issued another handsome, and handsomely illustrated volume to gladden the
hearts of all ecclesiologists and architectural antiquaries. We allude to Mr. Freeman's Essay
on the Origin and Development of Window Tracery in England, which consists of an improved and
extended form of several papers on the subject of Tracery read before the Oxford Architectural
Society at intervals during the years 1846 and 1848. To those of our readers who know what
are Mr. Freeman's abilities for the task he has undertaken, the present announcement will be
a sufficient inducement to make them turn to the volume itself; while those who have not yet
paid any attention to this interesting chapter in the history of Architectural progress, will
find no better introduction to the study of it than Mr. Freeman's able volume with its four
hundred illustrations.

Mr. Foss has, we hear, gone to press with two additional volumes of his Judges of England,
which will carry his subject down to the end of the reign of Richard III. The correspondence
will form about four volumes, and will be ready to appear among our next winter's novelties.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson (191. Piccadilly) will sell, on Monday and Tuesday next, a collection
of Choice Books, mostly in beautiful condition. Among the more curious lots are, an unpublished
work of Archbishop Laud, on Church Government, said to have been presented to Charles I. for
the instruction of Prince Henry; and an unique Series of Illustrations for Scotland, consisting
of several thousand engravings, and many interesting drawings and autographs. Fleet Street)
Catalogue of Autograph Letters and Manuscripts, English and Foreign, containing many rare and
interesting Documents.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

  CONDER'S PROVINCIAL COINS. Publisher's name I cannot recollect.
  HISTORICAL REGISTER for 1st February, 1845, price 6d. No. 5.; also for
      22d February, 1845, price 6d. No. 8., and subsequent Numbers till
      its discontinuation. Published by Wallbridge, 7. Catherine Street,
      Strand.
  LULLII (RAYMONDI) OPERA, Mogunt, 10 Vols. fol., 1721-42.
  LICETI (FORTUNII) DE QUÆSITIS PER EPISTOLAS, Bonon. 7 tom. 4to., 1640-50.
  SCALICHII SIVE SCALIGERI (PAULI) OPERA, Basil, 1559, 4to.
  ---- OCCULTA OCCULTORUM, Vienn. 1556, 4to.
  ---- SATIRÆ PHILOSOPHICÆ, Regiom. 1563, 8vo.
  ---- MISCELLANEORUM, Colon. 1570, 4to.
  ---- DE VITA EJUS ET SCRIPTIS, 4to., Ulmæ, 1803.
  RESPONSA JURIS CONSULTORUM DE ORIGINE GENTE ET NOMINE PAULI SCALIGERI,
      Colon. 1567, 4to.
  SCALIGERONUM ANNALES, Colon. sine anno in 12mo.
  SCALIGERI (JOS.) MESOLABIUM, Ludg. Bat. 1594. fol.
  GRUBINII (OPORINI) AMPHOTIDES SCIOPPIANÆ, Paris, 1611, 8vo.
  CARDANI (HIERON) OPUSCULA MEDICA ET PHILOSOPHICA, Basil, 1566, 2 Vols.
      8vo.
  ---- CONTRADICENTIUM MEDICORUM, Lugd. 1584, 4to.
  ---- THEONOSTON, Rom. 1617, 4to.
  ---- DE IMMORTALITATE ANIMORUM, Ludg. 1545, 12mo.
  ---- DE MALO MEDENDI USU, Venet. 1536, 12mo.
  CAMPANELLÆ (THOMÆ) PHILOSOPHIA SENSIBUS DEMONSTRATA, Neap., 1591, 4to.
  GASSENDI (PETRI) EPISTOLICA EXERCITATIO, IN QUÂ PRINCIPIA ROB. FLUDDI
      MEDICI DETEGUNTUR, Paris, 1630, 8vo.
  SCIOPPII (GASP.) ELOGIA SCIOPPIANA, Papiæ, 1617, 4to.
  ---- DE AUGUSTÂ DOM^S AUSTRIÆ ORIGINE, Const., 1651, 12mo.
  ---- OBSERVATIONES LINGUÆ LATINÆ, Francof., 1609, 8vo.
  NAUDÆI (GAB.) GRATIARUM ACTIO IN COLLEGIO PATAV., Venet., 1633, 8vo.

J. E., The price of "NOTES AND QUERIES" is 3d. per Number. There was an extra charge for the
Index; and No. 65. was a double Number, price 6d. The taking of the Index was, as Lubin Log
says, "quite optional." {159}

PHILO-STEVENS. We do not know of any Memoir of the late Mr. Price, the Editor of Warton's History
of English Poetry. There is not certainly one prefixed to any edition of Warton. Mr. Price
was a thorough scholar, and well deserving of such a memorial.

E. S. T. Only waiting for an opportunity of using them.

MARTIN FAMILY (of Wivenhoe). CLERICUS, who sought for information respecting this Family, may,
by application to our publisher, learn the address of a gentleman who has collected evidence
of their pedigree.

DE NAVORSCHER. Mr. Nutt, of 270. Strand, is the London Agent for this interesting work, of
which we have received the January and February Numbers.

Our MONTHLY PART for FEBRUARY, price 1s. 3d., will be ready on Wednesday next.

REPLIES RECEIVED. Salisbury Craigs--Shaking Hands--Robert Burton--Ulm MS.--Metrical Psalms--Booty's
Case--Language given to Man--Eisel--Lammer Beads--Tradescant--Munchausen--Sixes and Sevens--Under
the Rose, &c. (from Ache)--Waste Book--Cracowe Pike--Gloves--Descent of Henry IV.--Lord Howard
of Effingham--Lincoln Missal--Prayer at the Healing--Hats of Cardinals--Aver--St. Paul's Clock.

Erratum.--No. 67. p. 101. l. 4., for a read an.

Catalogues will be sent on application.

Catalogues will be sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

Valuable Library, late the Property of the Rev. GEORGE INNES, Head Master of the King's School,
Warwick, deceased.

Catalogues will be sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOWERBY'S ENGLISH BOTANY. Now ready, Vol. IV. price 1l. 16s. cloth boards.

Vols. I. II. and III., price 1l. 19s. 6d. each, and cases for binding the Vols. always on hand.

*** Subscribers who may desire to complete their copies can do so from the stock of the second
edition, at Re-issue price.

To be had of Mr. SOWERBY, 3. Mead Place, Lambeth; and of all Booksellers.

{160}

       *       *       *       *       *

Now Ready, in 200 pages, Demy 18mo.,

WITH A PICTORIAL VIEW AND GROUND PLAN OF THE GREAT EXHIBITION BUILDING,

AND VIEW OF THE BIRMINGHAM EXPOSITION.

Price, in Fancy Binding, 2s. 6d., or Post Free, 3s.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLISHED BY JAMES GILBERT, 49. PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. Orders Received by all Booksellers,
Stationers, and Newsvendors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, No. 5., price 2s. 6d.,

DETAILS OF GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE, Measured and Drawn from existing Examples. By JAMES K. COLLING,
Architect.

          CONTENTS:
  Archway from Bishop Burton Church and Corbel from Wawn   Church,
      Yorkshire.
  Font from Bradfield Church, Norfolk.
  Nave Arches, St. Mary's Church, Beverley.
  Clerestory Windows from ditto.
  One compartment of Nave and Label Terminations from ditto.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHÆOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.--The Volume of Transactions of the LINCOLN MEETING, to which Subscribers
for the year 1848 are entitled, is ready for delivery, and may be obtained, on application
at the Office of the Society, 26. Suffolk Street, Pall Mall. Directions regarding transmission
of copies to Country Members should be addressed to GEORGE VULLIAMY, Esq., Secretary. The Norwich
Volume is also completed, and will be forthwith delivered.

It is requested that all arrears of subscription may be remitted without delay to the Treasurer,
EDWARD HAWKINS, Esq. The Journal, No. 29., commencing Vol. VIII., will be published at the
close of March, and forwarded, Postage Free, to all Members not in arrear of their contributions.

The SALISBURY VOLUME is nearly ready for delivery. Subscribers' names received by the Publisher,

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEVOTIONAL LIBRARY, Edited by WALTER FARQUHAR HOOK, D.D., Vicar of Leeds. Just Published.

THE HISTORY OF OUR LORD AND SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST. With suitable Meditations and Prayers. By
WILLIAM READING, M.A. (Reprinted from the Edition of 1737.) 32mo. cloth, price 2s.

Also,

DEVOUT MUSINGS ON THE BOOK OF PSALMS, Part 3. Psalms LXXVI. to CX. Price 1s. cloth; and Vol.
I., containing Parts 1. and 2., price 2s. 6d. cloth.

Leeds: RICHARD SLOCOMBE. London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOREIGN LITERATURE.

D. NUTT begs to call the Attention of the Public to his Establishment for the SALE of FOREIGN
BOOKS, both Old and New, in various Languages, and in every Department of Literature. His Stock
is one of the largest of its kind in London, and is being continually augmented by Weekly Importations
from the Continent. He has recently published the following Catalogues, either of which may
be had Gratis, and forwarded anywhere by Post upon receipt of Four Stamps:--Classical and Philological
Books; Miscellaneous German Books and Elementary Works; Theological, Philosophical, and Oriental
Books.

270. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

Contents, "Groatsworth of Witte": 'Groathsworth' in original ('Groatsworth' twice in article).

pages 130 & 131, "The Lyars": 'Lyan' in original.

page 130, "Margaret Nicholson": 'Magaret' in original.

page 132, "which is similarly subject to Venus": 'smilary' in original.

page 139, "the first two parts of the Ecclesiastical History": 'patts' in original.

