A peremptory requisition was now sent on shore for the immediate surrender of the town; but
the answer of the Sultan was still evasive, and, as the troops had only a few days' water on
board, an immediate landing was decided upon. On the morning of the 19th, accordingly, the
Coote, Cruiser, Volage, and the Company's armed schooner Mahi, weighed and stood in shore,
opening a heavy fire on the island of Seerah and the batteries on the mainland, to cover the
disembarkation. The Arabs at first stood to their guns with great determination, but their
artillery was, of course, speedily silenced or dismounted by the superior weight and rapidity
of the English fire; and though the troops were galled while in the boats by matchlocks from
the shore, both the town and the island of Seerah were carried by storm without much difficulty.
The loss of the assailants was no more than fifteen killed and wounded--that of the Arabs more
than ten times that number, including a nephew of the Sultan and a chief of the Houshibee tribe,
who fought gallantly, and received a mortal wound; considerable bloodshed was also occasioned
by the desperate resistance made by the prisoners taken on Seerah in the attempt to disarm
them, during which the greater part of them cut their way through their captors and got clear
off. Most of the inhabitants fled into the interior during the assault, but speedily returned
on hearing of the discipline and good order preserved by the conquerors; and the old Sultan,
on being informed of the capture of the place, sent an apologetic letter (Jan. 21) to Captain
Haines, in which he threw all the blame on his son Hamed, and expressed an earnest wish for
a reconciliation. Little difficulty was now experienced in conducting the negotiations, and
during the first days of February articles of pacification were signed both with the Abdallis
and the other tribes in the neighbourhood. To secure the good-will of the Futhali chief, the
annual payment which he had received from Aden of 360 dollars, was still guaranteed to him,
as were the 8700 dollars per annum to the Sultan of Lahedj, whose bond for 4191 dollars was
further remitted as a token of good-will.

Such were the circumstances under which Aden became part of the colonial empire of Great Britain--and
the details of which we have taken, almost entirely, from the official accounts published by
order of Government. In whatever point of view we consider the transaction, we think it can
scarcely be denied that it reflects little credit on the national character for even-handed
justice and fair dealing. Even if the tact and savoir faire, which Captain Haines must be admitted
to have displayed in an eminent degree in the execution of his instructions, had succeeded
in intimidating the Arabs into surrendering the place without resistance, such a proceeding
would have amounted to nothing more or less than the appropriation of the territory of a tribe
not strong enough to defend themselves, simply because it was situated conveniently for the
purposes of our own navigation: and the open force by which the scheme was ultimately carried
into effect, imparts to this act of usurpation a character of violence still more to be regretted.
The originally-alleged provocation, the affair of the Derya-Dowlut, is not for a moment tenable
as warranting such extreme measures:--since not only was the participation of the parties on
whom the whole responsibility was thrown, at all events extremely venial; but satisfaction
had been given, and had been admitted to have been given, before the subject of the cession
of the place was broached:--and the Sultan constantly denied that his alleged consent to the
transfer, on which the subsequent hostilities were grounded, had ever been intended to be so
construed. It is evident, moreover, that the Arabs would gladly have yielded to any amicable
arrangement short of the absolute cession of the town, which they regarded as disgraceful:
--the erection of a factory, which might have been fortified so as to give us the virtual command
of the place and the harbour, would probably have met with no opposition:--and even if Aden
had fallen, as it seemed on the point of doing, into the hands of the Pasha of Egypt, there
can be little doubt that the Viceroy would have shown himself equally ready to facilitate our
intercourse with India, in his Arabian as in his Egyptian harbours. At all events, it is evident
that the desired object of obtaining a station and coal depot for the Indian steamers, might
easily have been secured in various ways, without running even the risk of bringing on the
British name the imputation of unnecessary violence and oppression.

Aden, however, was now, whether for right or wrong, under the British flag; but the hostile
dispositions of the Arabs, notwithstanding the treaties entered into, were still far from subdued;
and the cupidity of these semi-barbarous tribes was still further excited by the lavish expenditure
of the new garrison, and by the exaggerated reports of vast treasures said to be brought from
India for the repairs of the works. Among the advantages anticipated by Captain Haines in his
official report from the possession of the town, especial stress is laid on its vicinity to
the coffee and gum districts, and the certainty, that when it was under the settled rule of
British law, the traffic in these rich products, as well as in the gold-dust, ivory, and frankincense
of the African coast, would once more centre in its long-neglected harbour. But it was speedily
found that the insecurity of communication with the interior opposed a serious obstacle to
the realization of these prospects--the European residents and the troops were confined within
the Turkish wall--and though the extreme heat of the climate (which during summer averaged
90° of Fahrenheit in the shade within a stone house) did not prove so injurious as had been
expected to European constitutions, it was found, singularly enough, to exercise a most pernicious
influence on the sepoys, who sickened and died in alarming numbers. Aden at this period is
compared, in a letter quoted in the Asiatic Journal, to "the crater of Etna enlarged, and covered
with gravestones and the remains of stone huts;" provisions were scarce, and vegetables scarcely
procurable. By degrees, however, some symptoms of reviving trade appeared and by the end of
1839 the population had increased to 1500 souls.

The smouldering rancour with which the Arabs had all along regarded the Frank intruders upon
their soil, had by this time broken out into open hostility; and, after some minor acts of
violence, an attack was made on the night of November 9th on the Turkish wall across the isthmus,
(which had been additionally strengthened by redoubts and some guns,) by a body of 4000 men,
collected from the Abdallis, the Futhalis, and the other tribes in the neighbourhood. The assailants
were of course repulsed, but not without a severe conflict, in which the Arabs engaged the
defenders hand to hand with the most determined valour--so highly had their hopes of plunder
been stimulated by the rumours of English wealth. This daring attempt (which the Pasha of Egypt
was by some suspected to have had some share in instigating) at once placed the occupants of
Aden in a state of open warfare with all their Arab neighbours; and the subsidies hitherto
paid to the Futhali chief and the old Sultan of Lahedj were consequently stopped--while L.100,000
were voted by the Bombay government for repairing the fortifications, and engineers were sent
from India to put the place in an efficient state of defence. These regular ramparts, however,
even when completed, can never be relied on as a security against the guerilla attacks of these
daring marauders, who can wade through the sea at low water round the flanks of the Turkish
wall, and scramble over precipices to get in the rear of the outposts--and accordingly, during
1840, the garrison had to withstand two more desperate attempts (May 20, and July 4,) to surprise
the place, both of which were beaten off after some hard fighting, though in one instance the
attacking party succeeded in carrying off a considerable amount of plunder from the encampment
near the Turkish wall. Since that period, it has been found necessary gradually to raise the
strength of the garrison from 800 to 4000 men, one-fourth of whom are always European soldiers--and
though no attack in force has lately been made by the Arabs, the necessity of being constantly
on the alert against their covert approaches, renders the duties of the garrison harassing
to the last degree. Though a considerable trade now exists with the African coast, scarcely
any commercial intercourse has yet been established with the interior of Arabia, (notwithstanding
the friendly dispositions evinced by the Iman of Sana,) the road being barred by the hostile
tribes--and a further impediment to improvement is found in the dissensions of the civil and
military authorities of the place itself, who, pent up in a narrow space under a broiling sun,
seem to employ their energies in endless squabbles with each other. Whatever may be the ultimate
fate of this colony, it must be allowed, to quote the candid admission of a writer in the United
Service Journal, that "at present we are not occupying a very proud position in Arabia"--though
considering the means by which we obtained our footing in that peninsula, our position is perhaps
as good as we deserve.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET

  BY THE AUTHOR OP THE LIFE OF BURKE, OF GOLDSMITH, &C.,

  ON VIEWING MY MOTHER'S PICTURE.

  How warms the heart when dwelling on that face,
    Those lips that mine a thousand times have prest,
  The swelling source that nurture gav'st her race,
    Where found my infant head its downiest rest!
  How in those features aim to trace my own,
    Cast in a softer mould my being see;
  Recall the voice that sooth'd my helpless moan,
    The thoughts that sprang for scarcely aught save me;
  That shaped and formed me; gave me to the day,
    Bade in her breast absorbing love arise;
  O'er me a ceaseless tender care display,
    For weak all else to thee maternal ties!
  This debt of love but One may claim; no other
  Such self-devotion boasts, save thee, my Mother!

       *       *       *       *       *

CALEB STUKELY.

  PART XIII.

  THE FUGITIVE.

The tongue has nothing to say when the soul hath spoken all! What need of words in the passionate
and early intercourse of love! There is no oral language that can satisfy or meet the requisitions
of the stricken heart. Speech, the worldling and the false--oftener the dark veil than the
bright mirror of man's thoughts--is banished from the spot consecrated to purity, unselfishness,
and truth. The lovely and beloved Ellen learnt, before a syllable escaped my lips, the secret
which those lips would never have disclosed. Her innocent and conscious cheek acknowledged
instantly her quick perception, and with maiden modesty she turned aside--not angrily, but
timorous as a bird, upon whose leafy covert the heavy fowler's foot has trod too harshly and
too suddenly. I thought of nothing then but the pain I had inflicted, and was sensible of no
feeling but that of shame and sorrow for my fault. We walked on in silence. Our road brought
us to the point in the village at which I had met Miss Fairman and her father, when, for the
first time, we became companions in our evening walk. We retraced the path which then we took,
and the hallowed spot grew lovelier as we followed it. I could not choose but tell how deeply
and indelibly the scene of beauty had become imprinted on my heart.

"To you, Miss Fairman," I began, "and to others who were born and nurtured in this valley,
this is a common sight. To me it is a land of enchantment, and the impression that it brings
must affect my future being. I am sure, whatever may be my lot, that I shall be a happier man
for what I now behold."

"It is well," said my companion, "that you did not make the acquaintance of our hills during
the bleak winter, when their charms were hidden in the snow, and they had nothing better to
offer their worshipper than rain and sleet and nipping winds. They would have lost your praise
then."

"Do you think so? Imprisoned as I have been, and kept a stranger to the noblest works of Providence,
my enjoyment is excessive, and I dare scarcely trust myself to feel it as I would. I could
gaze on yonder sweet hillock, with its wild-flowers and its own blue patch of sky, until I wept."

"Yes, this is a lovely scene in truth!" exclaimed Miss Fairman pensively.

"Do you remember, Miss Fairman, our first spring walk? For an hour we went on, and that little
green clump, as it appears from here, was not for a moment out of my sight. My eyes were riveted
upon it, and I watched the clouds shifting across it, changing its hue, now darkening, now
lighting it up, until it became fixed in my remembrance, never to depart from it. We have many
fair visions around us, but that is to me the fairest. It is connected with our evening walk.
Neither can be forgotten whilst I live."

It was well that we reached the parsonage gate before another word was spoken. In spite of
the firmest of resolutions, the smallest self-indulgence brought me to the very verge of transgression.

In the evening I sat alone, and began a letter to the minister. I wrote a few lines expressive
of my gratitude and deep sense of obligation. They did not read well, and I destroyed them.
I recommenced. I reproached myself for presumption and temerity, and confessed that I had taken
advantage of his confidence by attempting to gain the affections of his only child. I regretted
the fault, and desired to be dismissed. The terms which I employed, on reperusal, looked too
harsh, and did not certainly do justice to the motives by which throughout I had been actuated;
for, however violent had been my passion, principle had still protected and restrained me.
I had not coldly and deliberately betrayed myself. The second writing, not more satisfactory
than the first, was, in its turn, expunged. I attempted a third epistle, and failed. Then I
put down the pen and considered. I pondered until I concluded that I had ever been too hasty
and too violent. Miss Fairman would certainly take no notice of what had happened, and if I
were guarded--silent--and determined for the future, all would still be well. It was madness
to indulge a passion which could only lead to my expulsion from the parsonage, and end in misery.
Had I found it so easy to obtain a home and quiet, that both were to be so recklessly and shamefully
abandoned? Surely it was time to dwell soberly and seriously upon the affairs of life. I had
numbered years and undergone trial sufficient to be acquainted with true policy and the line
of duty. Both bade me instantly reject the new solicitation, and pursue, with singleness of
purpose, the occupation which fortune had mercifully vouchsafed to me. All this was specious
and most just, and sounded well to the understanding that was not less able to look temperately
and calmly upon the argument in consequence of the previous overflow of feeling. Reason is
never so plausible and prevailing as when it takes the place of gratified passion. Never are
we so firmly resolved upon good, as in the moment that follows instantly the doing of evil.
Never is conscience louder in her complaints than when she rises from a temporary overthrow.
I had discovered every thing to Miss Fairman. I had fatally committed myself. There was no
doubt of this; and nothing was left for present consolation but sapient resolutions for the
future. Virtuous and fixed they looked in my silent chamber and in the silent hour of night.
Morning had yet to dawn, and they had yet to contend with the thousand incitements which our
desires are ever setting up to battle with our better judgment. I did not write to Mr. Fairman,
but I rose from my seat much comforted, and softened my midnight pillow with the best intentions.

Fancy might have suggested to me, on the following morning, that the eyes of Miss Fairnan had
been visited but little by sleep, and that her face was far more pallid than usual, if her
parent had not remarked, with much anxiety, when she took her place amongst us, that she was
looking most weary and unwell. Like the sudden emanation that crimsons all the east, the beautiful
and earliest blush of morning, came the driven blood into the maiden's cheek, telling of discovery
and shame. Nothing she said in answer, but diligently pursued her occupation. I could perceive
that the fair hand trembled, and that the gentle bosom was disquieted. I could tell why downwards
bent the head, and with what new emotions the artless spirit had become acquainted. Instantly
I saw the mischief which my rashness had occasioned, and felt how deeply had fallen the first
accents of love into the poor heart of the secluded one. What had I done by the short, indistinct,
most inconsiderate avowal, and how was it possible now to avert its consequences? Every tender
and uneasy glance that Mr. Fairman cast upon his cherished daughter, passed like a sting to
me, and roused the bitterest self-reproach. I could have calmed his groundless fears, had I
been bold enough to risk his righteous indignation. The frankness and cordiality which had
ever marked my intercourse with Miss Fairman, were from this hour suspended. Could it be otherwise
with one so innocent, so truthful, and so meek! Anger she had none, but apprehension and conceptions
strange, such as disturb the awakened soul of woman, ere the storm of passion comes to overcharge
it.

I slunk from the apartment and the first meal of the day, like a man guilty of a heinous fault.
I pleaded illness, and did not rejoin my friends. I knew not what to do, and I passed a day
in long and feverish doubt. Evening arrived. My pupils were dismissed, and once more I sat
in my own silent room lost in anxious meditation. Suddenly an unusual knock at the door roused
me, and brought me to my feet. I requested the visitor to enter, and Mr. Fairman himself walked
slowly in. He was pale and care-worn and he looked, as I imagined, sternly upon me. "All is
known!" was my first thought, and my throat swelled with agitation. I presented a chair to
the incumbent; and when he sat down and turned his wan face upon me, I felt that my own cheek
was no less blanched than his. I awaited his rebuke in breathless suspense.

"You are indeed ill, Stukely," commenced Mr. Fairman, gazing earnestly. "I was not aware of
this, or I would have seen you before. You have overworked yourself with the boys. You shall
be relieved to-morrow. I will take charge of them myself. You should not have persevered when
you found your strength unequal to the task. A little repose will, I trust, restore you."

With every animating syllable, the affrighted blood returned again, and I gained confidence.
His tones assured me that he was still in ignorance. A load was taken from me.

"I shall be better in the morning, sir," I answered. "Do not think seriously of the slightest
indisposition. I am better now."

"I am rejoiced to hear it," answered the incumbent. "I am full of alarm and wretchedness to-day.
Did you observe my daughter this morning, Stukely?"

"Yes, sir," I faltered.

"You did at breakfast, but you have not seen her since. I wish you had. I am sick at heart."

"Is she unwell, sir?"

"Do you know what consumption is? Have you ever watched its fearful progress?"

"Never."

"I thought you might have done so. It is a fearful disease, and leaves hardly a family untouched.
Did she not look ill?--you can tell me that, at least."

"Not quite so well, perhaps, as I have seen her, sir; but I should hope"--

"Eh--what, not very ill, then? Well, that is strange, for I was frightened by her. What can
it be? I wish that Mayhew had called in. Every ailment fills me with terror. I always think
of her dear mother. Three months before her death, she sat with me, as we do here together,
well and strong, and thanking Providence for health and strength. She withered, as it might
be from that hour, and, as I tell you, three short months of havoc brought her to the grave."

"Was she young, sir?"

"A few years older than my child--but that is nothing. Did you say you did not think her looks
this morning indicated any symptoms? Oh--no! I recollect. You never saw the malady at work.
Well, certainly she does not cough as her poor mother did. Did it look like languor, think you?"

"The loss of rest might"--

"Yes, it might, and perhaps it is nothing worse. I know Mayhew thinks lightly of these temporary
shadows; but I do not believe he has ever seen her so thoroughly feeble and depressed as she
appears to-day. She is very pale, but I was glad to find her face free from all flush whatever.
That is comforting. Let us hope the best. How do the boys advance? What opinion have you formed
of the lad Charlton?"

"He is a dull, good-hearted boy, sir. Willing to learn, with little ability to help him on.
Most difficult of treatment. His tears lie near the surface. At times it seems that the simplest
terms are beyond his understanding, and then the gentlest reproof opens the flood-gate, and
submerges his faculties for the day."

"Be tender and cautious, Stukely, with that child. He is a sapling that will not bear the rough
wind. Let him learn what he will--rest assured, it is all he can. His eagerness to learn will
never fall short of your's to teach. He must be kindly encouraged, not frowned upon in his
reverses; for who fights so hard against them, or deplores them more deeply than himself? Poor,
weak child, he is his own chastiser."

"I will take care, sir."

"Have you seen this coming on, Stukely?"

"With Charlton, sir?"

"No. Miss Fairman's indisposition. For many weeks she has certainly improved in health. I have
remarked it, and I was taken by surprise this morning. I should be easier had Mayhew seen her."

"Let me fetch him in the morning, sir. His presence will relieve you. I will start early--and
bring him with me."

"Well, if you are better, but certainly not otherwise. I confess I should be pleased to talk
with him. But do not rise too early. Get your breakfast first. I will take the boys until you
come back."

This had been the object of the anxious father's visit. As soon as I had undertaken to meet
his wish, he became more tranquil. My mission was to be kept a secret. The reason why a servant
had not been employed, was the fear of causing alarm in the beloved patient. Before Mr. Fairman
left me, I was more than half persuaded that I myself had mistaken the cause of his daughter's
suffering; so agreeable is it, even against conviction, to discharge ourselves of blame.

The residence of Dr. Mayhew was about four miles distant from our village. It was a fine brick
house, as old as the oaks which stood before it, conferring upon a few acres of grass land
the right to be regarded as a park. The interior of the house was as substantial as the outside;
both were as solid as the good doctor himself. He was a man of independent property, a member
of the University of Oxford, and a great stickler for old observances. He received a fee from
every man who was able to pay him for his services; and the poor might always receive at his
door, at the cost of application only, medical advice and physic, and a few commodities much
more acceptable than either. He kept a good establishment, in the most interesting portion
of which dwelt three decaying creatures, the youngest fourscore years of age and more. They
were an entail from his grandfather, and had faithfully served that ancestor for many years
as coachman, housekeeper, and butler. The father of Dr. Mayhew had availed himself of their
integrity and experience until Time robbed them of the latter, and rendered the former a useless
ornament; and dying, he bequeathed them, with the house and lands, to their present friend
and patron. There they sat in their own hall, royal servants every one, hanging to life by
one small thread, which when it breaks for one must break for all. They had little interest
in the present world, to which the daily visit of the doctor, and that alone, connected them.
He never failed to pay it. Unconscious of all else, they never failed to look for it.

The village clock struck eleven as I walked up the avenue that conducted to the house. The
day was intensely hot, and at that early hour the fierce fire of the sun had rendered the atmosphere
sweltry and oppressive. I knocked many times before I could obtain admittance, and, at last,
the door was opened by a ragged urchin about twelve years of age, looking more like the son
of a thief or a gypsy than a juvenile member of the decent household.

"Is Dr. Mayhew at home?" I asked.

"Oh, I don't know!" he answered surlily; "you had better come and see;" and therewith he turned
upon his heel, and tramped heavily down the kitchen stairs. For a few seconds I remained where
I was. At length, hearing no voices in the house, and finding that no one was likely to come
to me, I followed him. At the bottom of the stairs was a long passage leading to the offices.
It was very dark, or it was rendered so to me who had just left the glare of noonday. At the
end of it, however, a small lamp glimmered, and under its feeble help I advanced. Arriving
at its extremity, I was stopped by the hum of many voices that proceeded from a chamber on
the right. Here I knocked immediately. The voice of Dr. Mayhew desired me to enter. The door
was opened the moment afterwards, and then I beheld the doctor himself and every servant of
the house assembled in a crowd. The little boy who had given me admission was in the group;
and in the very centre of all, sitting upright in a chair, was the strangest apparition of
a man that I have ever gazed upon, before or since. The object that attracted, and at the same
time repelled, my notice, was a creature whose age no living man could possibly determine.
He was at least six feet high, with raven hair, and a complexion sallow as the sear leaf. Look
at his figure, then mark the absence of a single wrinkle, and you judge him for a youth. Observe
again: look at the emaciated face; note the jet-black eye, deeply-sunken, and void of all fire
and life; the crushed, the vacant, and forlorn expression; the aquiline nose, prominent as
an eagle's, from which the parchment skin is drawn as rigidly as though it were a dead man's
skin, bloodless and inert. The wear and tear, the buffeting and misery of seventy years are
there. Seventy!--yea, twice seventy years of mortal agony and suffering could hardly leave
a deeper impress. He is strangely clad. He is in rags. The remnants of fine clothes are dropping
from his shrunken body. His hand is white and small. Upon the largest finger he wears a ring--once,
no doubt, before his hand had shrivelled up--the property and ornament of the smallest. It
is a sparkling diamond, and it glistens as his own black eye should, if it be true that he
is old only in mental misery and pain. There is no sign of thought or feeling in his look.
His eye falls on no one, but seems to pass beyond the lookers-on, and to rest on space. The
company are far more agitated. A few minutes before my arrival the strange object had been
found, with the boy whom I had first seen, wandering in the garden. He was apprehended for
a thief, brought into the house, and not until Dr. Mayhew had been summoned, had it been suspected
that the poor creature was an idiot. Commiseration then took the place of anger quickly, and
all was anxiety and desire to know whence he had come, who he might be, and what his business
was. He could not speak for himself, and the answers of the boy had been unsatisfactory and
vague. When I entered the room, the doctor gave me a slight recognition, and proceeded at once
to a further examination of the stripling.

"Where did you pick him up, Sir?" enquired the Doctor.

"Mother sent me out a-begging with him," answered the gypsy boy.

"Who is your mother?"

"Mabel."

"Mabel what?"

"Mabel nothing."

"Where does she live, then?"

"She doesn't live nowhere. She's a tramper."

"Where is she now?"

"How can I tell? We shall pick up somewhere. Let me go, and take Silly Billy with me. I shall
get such a licking if I don't."

"Is his name Billy?"

"No, Silly Billy, all then chaps as is fools are called Silly Billy. You know that, don't you?
Oh, I say, do let's go now, there's good fellows!"

"Wait a moment, boy--not so fast. How long have you been acquainted with this unfortunate?"

"What, Silly Billy? Oh, we ain't very old friends! I only see'd him yesterday. He came up quite
unawares to our camp whilst we were grubbing. He seemed very hungry, so mother gave him summut,
and made him up a bed--and she means to have him. So she sent me out this morning a-begging
with him, and told me she'd break every gallows bone I'd got, if I did not bring him back safe.
I say, now I have told all, let us go--there's a good gentleman! I'm quite glad he is going
to live with us. It's so lucky to have a Silly Billy."

"How is it, you young rascal, you didn't tell me all this before? What do you mean by it?

"Why, it isn't no business of your'n. Let us go, will you?"

"Strange," said Doctor Mayhew, turning to his butler--"Strange, that they should leave that
ring upon his finger--valuable as it looks."

"Oh, you try it on, that's all! Catch mother leaving that there, if she could get it off. She
tried hard enough, I can tell you and I thought he'd just have bitten her hand off. Wasn't
he savage neither, oh cry! She won't try at it again in a hurry. She says it serves her right,
for no luck comes of robbing a Silly Billy."

The servants, who betrayed a few minutes before great anxiety and apprehension, were perfectly
overcome by this humorous sally, and burst, with on accord, into the loudest laughter. The
generally jocose doctor, however, looked particularly serious, and kept his eye upon the poor
idiot with an expression of deep pity. "Will he not speak?" he asked, still marking his unhappy
countenance bereft of every sign of sensibility.

"He won't say not nuffin," said the boy, in a tone which he hoped would settle the business;
"You have no right to keep us. Let us go."

"Leave me with these persons," said the Doctor, turning to the servants. "We will see if the
tongue of this wretched be really tied. Go, all of you."

In an instant the room was left to Doctor Mayhew and myself--the idiot and his keeper.

"What is your name, my man?" enquired the physician in a soothing tone. "Do not be frightened.
Nobody will hurt you here. We are all your very good friends. Tell me now, what is your name?"

The questioner took the poor fellow at the same time by the hand, and pressed it kindly. The
latter then looked round the room with a vacant stare, and sighed profoundly.

"Tell me your name," continued the Doctor, encouraged by the movement. The lips of the afflicted
man unclosed. His brick-red tongue attempted to moisten them. Fixing his expressionless eyes
upon the doctor, he answered, in a hollow voice, "Belton."

"Well, I never!" exclaimed the boy. "Them Silly Billies is the deceitfulest chaps as is. He
made out to mother that he couldn't speak a word."

"Take care what you are about, boy," said Doctor Mayhew sternly. "I tell you that I suspect
you." Turning to the idiot, he proceeded. "And where do you come from?"

The lips opened again, and the same hollow voice again answered, "Belton."

"Yes, I understand--that is your name--but whither do you wish to go?"

"Belton," said the man.

"Strange!" ejaculated the Doctor. "How old are you?"

"Belton," repeated the simple creature, more earnestly than ever.

"I am puzzled," exclaimed Mr. Mayhew, releasing the hand of the idiot, and standing for a few
seconds in suspense. "However," he continued, "upon one thing I am resolved. The man shall
be left here, and in my care. I will be responsible for his safety until something is done
for him. We shall certainly get intelligence. He has escaped from an asylum--I have not the
slightest doubt of it--and we shall be able, after a few days, to restore him. As for you,
sir," he added, addressing the young gypsy, "make the best of your way to your mother, and
be thankful that you have come so well off--fly."

The boy began to remonstrate, upon which the doctor began to talk of the cage and the horsepond.
The former then evinced his good sense by listening to reason, and by selecting, as many a
wiser man has done before him--the smaller of two necessary evils. He departed, not expressing
himself in the most elegant terms that might have been applied to a leave-taking.

The benevolent physician soon made arrangements for the comfort of his charge. He was immediately
placed in a bath, supplied with food, and dressed in decent clothing. He submitted at once
to his treatment, and permitted his attendant to do what he would with him, taking, all the
while, especial care to feel the diamond ring safe and secure under the palm of his own hand.
A room was given to him and Robin, the gardener's son, who was forthwith installed his guardian,
with strict directions not to leave the patient for an instant by himself. When Dr. Mayhew
had seen every thing that could be done properly executed, he turned cheerfully to me, and
bade me follow him to his library.

"His clothes have been good," muttered the doctor to himself, as he sat down. "Diamond ring!
He is a gentleman, or has been one. Curious business! Well, we shall have him advertised all
round the country in a day or two. Meanwhile here he is, and will be safe. That trouble is
over. Now, Stukely, what brings you so early? Any thing wrong at home? Fairman in the dumps
again; fidgety and restless, eh?"

I told my errand.

"Ah, I thought so! There's nothing the matter there, sir. She is well enough now, and will
continue so, if her father doesn't frighten her into sickness, which he may do. I tell you
what, I must get little puss a husband, and take her from him. That will save her. I have my
eye upon a handsome fellow--Hollo, sir, what's the matter with you! Just look at your face
in that glass. It is as red as fire."

"The weather, sir, is"--

"Oh, is it? You mean to say, then, that you are acquainted with the influences of the weather.
That is just the thing, for you can help me to a few facts for the little treatise on climate
which I have got now in hand. Well, go on, my friend. You were saying that the weather is--is
what?"

"It is very hot, sir," I answered, dreadfully annoyed.

