After a time old buildings undergo no perceptible change, any more than old trees; and after
they have begun to feel the touch of decay, it is long before they look melancholy; for while
they continue to be used, they cannot help looking cheerful, and even dilapidation is painful
only when felt to be lifeless. The house now in ruins, that we passed a few hundred yards ago
without your seeing it--we saw it with a sigh--among some dark firs, just before we began to
ascend the hill, was many years ago inhabited by Miles Mackareth, a man of some substance,
and universally esteemed for his honest and pious character. His integrity, however, wanted
the grace of courteousness, and his religion was somewhat gloomy and austere, while all the
habits of his life were sad, secluded, and solitary. His fireside was always decent, but never
cheerful--there the passing traveller partook of an ungrudging, but a grave hospitality; and
although neighbours dropping in unasked were always treated as neighbours, yet seldom were
they invited to pass an evening below his roof, except upon the stated festivals of the seasons,
or some domestic event demanding sociality, according to the country custom. Year after year
the gloom deepened on his strong-marked intellectual countenance; and his hair, once black
as jet, became untimely grey. Indeed, although little more than fifty years old, when you saw
his head uncovered, you would have taken him for a man approaching to threescore and ten. His
wife and only daughter, both naturally of a cheerful disposition, grew every year more retired,
till at last they shunned society altogether, and were seldom seen but at church. And now a
vague rumour ran through the hamlets of the neighbouring valleys, that he was scarcely in his
right mind--that he had been heard by shepherds on the hills talking to himself wild words,
and pacing up and down in a state of distraction. The family ceased to attend divine worship,
and as for some time the Sabbath had been the only day they were visible, few or none now knew
how they fared, and by many they were nearly forgotten. Meanwhile, during the whole summer,
the miserable man haunted the loneliest places; and, to the terror of his wife and daughter,
who had lost all power over him, and durst not speak, frequently passed whole days they knew
not where, and came home, silent, haggard, and ghastly, about midnight. His widow afterwards
told that he seldom slept, and never without dreadful dreams--that often he would sit up all
night in his bed, with his eyes fixed and staring on nothing, and uttering ejaculations for
mercy for all his sins.

What these sins were he never confessed--nor, as far as man may judge of man, had he ever committed
any act that needed to lie heavy on his conscience. But his whole being, he said, was one black
sin--and a spirit had been sent to tell him, that his doom was to be with the wicked through
all the ages of eternity. That spirit, without form or shadow--only a voice--seldom left his
side day or night, go where he would; but its most dreadful haunt was under a steep rock called
Blakerigg-scaur; and thither, in whatever direction he turned his face on leaving his own door,
he was led by an irresistible impulse, even as a child is led by the hand. Tenderly and truly
had he once loved his wife and daughter, nor less because that love had been of few words,
and with a shade of sorrow. But now he looked on them almost as if they had been strangers--except
at times, when he started up, kissed them, and wept. His whole soul was possessed by horrid
fantasies, of which it was itself object and victim; and it is probable that had he seen them
both lying dead, he would have left their corpses in the house, and taken his way to the mountains.
At last one night passed away and he came not. His wife and daughter, who had not gone to bed,
went to the nearest house and told their tale. In an hour a hundred feet were traversing all
the loneliest places--till a hat was seen floating on Loughrigg-tarn, and then all knew that
the search was near an end. Drags were soon got from the fishermen on Windermere, and a boat
crossed and recrossed the tarn on its miserable quest, till in an hour, during which wife and
daughter sat without speaking on a stone by the water-edge, the body came floating to the surface,
with its long silver hair. One single shriek only, it is said, was heard, and from that shriek
till three years afterwards, his widow knew not that her husband was with the dead. On the
brink of that small sandy bay the body was laid down and cleansed of the muddy weeds--his daughter's
own hands assisting in the rueful work--and she walked among the mourners, the day before the
Sabbath, when the funeral entered the little burial-ground of Langdale chapel, and the congregation
sung a Christian psalm over the grave of the forgiven suicide.

We cannot patronise the practice of walking in large parties of ten or a score, ram-stam and
helter-skelter, on to the front-green or gravel-walk of any private nobleman's or gentleman's
house, to enjoy, from a commanding station, an extensive or picturesque view of the circumjacent
country. It is too much in the style of the Free and Easy. The family within, sitting perhaps
at dinner with the windows open, or sewing and reading in a cool dishabille, cannot like to
be stared in upon by so many curious and inquisitive pupils all a-hunt for prospects; nor were
these rose-bushes planted there for public use, nor that cherry-tree in vain netted against
the blackbirds. Not but that a party may now and then excusably enough pretend to lose their
way in a strange country; and looking around them in well-assumed bewilderment, bow hesitatingly
and respectfully to maid or matron at door or window, and, with a thousand apologies, lingeringly
offer to retire by the avenue gate, on the other side of the spacious lawn, that terrace-like
hangs over vale, lake, and river. But to avoid all possible imputation of impertinence, follow
you our example, and make all such incursions by break of day. We hold that, for a couple of
hours before and after sunrise, all the earth is common property. Nobody surely would think
for a moment of looking black on any number of freebooting lakers coming full sail up the avenue,
right against the front, at four o'clock in the morning? At that hour, even the poet would
grant them the privilege of the arbour where he sits when inspired, and writing for immortality.
He feels conscious that he ought to have been in bed; and hastens, on such occasions, to apologise
for his intrusion on strangers availing themselves of the rights and privileges of the Dawn.

Leaving Ivy-cottage, then, and its yet unbreathing chimneys, turn in at the first gate to your
right (if it be not built up, in which case leap the wall), and find your way the best you
can through among old pollarded and ivied ash-trees, intermingled with yews, and over knolly
ground, brier-woven, and here and there whitened with the jagged thorn, till you reach, through
a slate-stile, a wide gravel walk, shaded by pine-trees, and open on the one side to an orchard.
Proceed--and little more than a hundred steps will land you on the front of Rydal-mount, the
house of the great Poet of the Lakes. Mr Wordsworth is not at home, but away to cloudland in
his little boat so like the crescent moon. But do not by too much eloquence awaken the family,
or scare the silence, or frighten "the innocent brightness of the new-born day." We hate all
sentimentalism; but we bid you, in his own words,

                "With gentle hand
    Touch, for there is a spirit in the leaves."

