"My hope was altogether disappointed by this unhappy accident; and I shuddered at the prospect
of losing Serafina for ever, either by this mysterious malady, or by her marriage with Mendoza,
which I now despaired of being able to defeat.  The major-domo having waited several hours
for his lord's return, without seeing him appear, thought proper to despatch a messenger to
Don Manuel, with an account of what had happened; and that nobleman arriving in the morning,
took possession of the house.  About four o'clock in the afternoon, Serafina began to stir,
and, at five, she and her mother were perfectly awake.

"They no sooner recovered the use of reflection, than they gave signs of equal sorrow and amazement,
and earnestly called for Isabella, who was privy to our design, and who, after a very minute
inquiry, was found in a lone and solitary chamber, where she had been confined.  Such was the
confusion of the house, that no person ever dreamed of asking how I entered, each domestic,
in all probability, supposing I had been introduced by his fellow; so that I tarried unquestioned,
on pretence of concern for the distress of a family in which I had been so generously entertained,
and, by Isabella, sent my respects and duty to her ladies. She was, therefore, not a little
surprised, when, after every other servant had withdrawn, she heard the lovely Serafina exclaim,
with all the violence of grief, 'Ah! Isabella, Orlando is no more!'  But their astonishment
was still greater, when she assured them of my being alive, and in the house.  They recounted
to her the adventure of last night, which she explained, by informing them of the letters which
Don Diego had intercepted.  And they immediately concluded, that he had, in the precipitation
of his wrath, killed, by mistake, the person who was found dead in the court-yard.  This conjecture
alarmed them on my account; they, by the medium of Isabella, conjured me to leave the house,
lest Don Diego should return, and accomplish his resentment; and I was persuaded to withdraw,
after I had settled the channel of a correspondence with the confidant.

"Being now obliged to alter our measures, because our former intention was discovered by Don
Diego, I secured a retreat for Serafina and her mother, at the house of the English consul
in Seville, who was my particular friend; and, next day, understanding from Isabella that her
lord had not yet reappeared, and that Don Manuel was very urgent in his addresses, we concerted
an assignation in the garden, and that same evening I was fortunate enough to convey my prize
to the asylum I had prepared for their reception.  Inexpressible was the rage of Mendoza, when
he heard of their elopement.  He raved like one deprived of reason-- swore he would put all
the servants of the family to the rack--and, in consequence of the intelligence he obtained
by threats and promises, set on foot a very strict inquiry, in order to apprehend the fugitives
and Orlando, who had by some means or other incurred his suspicion.

"We eluded his search by the vigilance and caution of our kind host; and, while we remained
in concealment, were extremely astonished to hear that the unfortunate Don Diego was proclaimed
a traitor, and a price set upon his head.  This information overwhelmed us all with the utmost
affliction.  Antonia lamented, without ceasing, the disgrace of her beloved lord, from whom
she never would have withdrawn herself, but with the lively hope of a reconciliation, after
the first transports of his ire should have subsided, and the real character of Orlando should
have appeared.  It was not long before we had reason to believe that Mendoza was the accuser
of Don Diego--

"Nay, start not, Signior; Manuel was actually that traitor!  This was the turn of his revenge!
when he found himself disappointed in the hope of possessing the incomparable Serafina, he
took a base advantage of your absence and retreat.  He posted to Madrid, impeached you to the
secretary of state of having maintained a criminal correspondence with the enemies of Spain,
included me in his accusation, as a spy for the house of Austria, and framed such a plausible
tale, from the circumstances of your distress, that Don Diego was outlawed, and Mendoza gratified
with a grant of his estate.

"These melancholy incidents made a deep impression upon the mind of the virtuous Antonia, who
waiving every other consideration, would have personally appeared for the vindication of her
husband's honour, had not we dissuaded her from such a rash undertaking, by demonstrating her
inability to contend with such a powerful antagonist; and representing that her appearance
would be infallibly attended with the ruin of Serafina, who would certainly fall into the hands
of the villain to whom she had been contracted.  We exhorted her to wait patiently for some
happy revolution of fortune, and encouraged her with the hope of Don Diego's exerting himself
effectually in his own defence.

"Meanwhile our worthy landlord was suddenly cut off by death; and his widow being resolved
to retire into her own country, we secretly embarked in the same ship, and arrived in England
about eighteen months ago. Antonia still continued to pine over the ruin of her house; as she
could hear no tidings of Don Diego, she concluded he was dead, and mourned with unabating sorrow.
In vain I assured her, that, soon as my own affairs should be adjusted, I would exert my whole
endeavours to find and succour him.  She could not imagine that a man of his spirit and disposition
would live so long in obscurity.  And her affliction derived new force from the death of the
consul's widow, with whom she had lived in the most unbounded intimacy and friendship.  From
that day, her health evidently declined.  She foresaw her dissolution, and comforted herself
with the hope of seeing her husband and her friend in a place where no treachery is felt, and
no sorrow is known; confident of my integrity, and the purity of my love, she, in the most
pathetic terms, recommended Serafina to my care.

"Ha! weepest thou, fair excellence, at the remembrance of that tender scene, when the good
Antonia, on the bed of death, joined thy soft hand to mine, and said, 'Renaldo, I bequeath
this orphan to your love; it is a sacred pledge, which, if you cherish with due honour and
regard, internal peace and happiness will ever smile within your bosom; but if you treat it
with indifference, dishonour, or neglect, just Heaven will punish your breach of trust with
everlasting disappointments and disquiet.'

"Signior Don Diego, I see you are moved, and therefore will not dwell on such distressful circumstances.
The excellent Antonia exchanged this life for a more happy state; and so exquisite was the
sorrow of the tender-hearted Serafina, as to torture me with the apprehension that she would
not long survive her pious mother.  How I obeyed the injunctions of that departing saint, Monimia
(for that name she now assumed) can testify, until that artful serpent Fathom glided into our
mutual confidence, abused our ears, poisoned our unsuspected faith, and effected that fatal
breach, productive of all the misery and vexation which we have suffered, and which is now
so happily expelled."

"Heaven," said the Castilian, "hath visited me for the sins and errors of my youth; yet, such
mercy hath been mingled with its chastisements, I dare not murmur or repine.  The tears of
penitence and sorrow shall water my Antonia's grave; as for Mendoza, I rejoice at his treachery,
by which the obligation of my promise is cancelled, and my honour fully acquitted. He shall
not triumph in his guilt.  My services, my character, and innocence shall soon confront his
perfidy, and, I hope, defeat his interest.  The King is just and gracious, nor is my family
and name unknown."

Here the Jew interposing, presented to him a letter from a person of consequence at Madrid,
whom Joshua had interested in the cause of Don Diego; that nobleman had already found means
to represent the case of Zelos to his Majesty, who had actually ordered Don Manuel to be confined,
until the injured person should appear to justify himself, and prosecute his accuser according
to the terms of law.  At the same time Don Diego was summoned to present himself before the
King within a limited time, to answer to the charge which Mendoza had brought against him.

The Spaniard's heart overflowed with gratitude and joy, when he read this intimation; he embraced
the Jew, who, before Zelos could give utterance to his thoughts, told him that the Spanish
Ambassador at London, having been prepossessed in his favour, craved the honour of seeing Don
Diego; and that he, Joshua, was ready to conduct him to the house.

"Then is my heart at rest!" cried the Castilian; "the house of Zelos once more shall lift up
its head.  I shall again revisit my native country with honour, and abase the villain who hath
soiled my fame!  O my children! this day is replete with such joy and satisfaction, as I did
not think had been in the power of Heaven to grant, without the interposition of a miracle!
To you, Renaldo, to you illustrious lady, and to these worthy gentlemen, am I indebted for
the restoration of that for which alone I wish to live; and when my heart ceases to retain
the obligation, may I forfeit the name of a Castilian, and scorn and dishonour be my portion."

Perhaps all Europe could not produce another company so happy as that which now sat down to
dinner in the house of Madam Clement, whose own benevolent heart was peculiarly adapted for
such enjoyment.  The lovers feasted their eyes more than their appetite, by a tender intercourse
of glances, which needed not the slow interpretation of speech; while the Spaniard regarded
them alternately with looks of wonder and paternal joy, and every individual surveyed the all-deserving
pair with admiration and esteem.

Serafina taking the advantage of this general satisfaction, when the heart, softened into complacency,
deposits every violent thought: "I must now," said she, "try my interest with Renaldo.  The
good company shall bear witness to my triumph or repulse.  I do not ask you to forgive, but
to withhold your vengeance from the wretched Fathom.  His fraud, ingratitude, and villany are,
I believe, unrivalled; yet his base designs have been defeated; and Heaven perhaps hath made
him the involuntary instrument for bringing our constancy and virtue to the test; besides,
his perfidy is already punished with the last degree of human misery and disgrace.  The doctor,
who has traced him in all his conduct and vicissitudes of fortune, will draw a picture of his
present wretchedness, which, I doubt not, will move your compassion, as it hath already excited
mine."

The generous hostess was ready to enforce this charitable proposal with all her eloquence,
when Melvil, with a look that well expressed his magnanimity of love, replied, "Such a boon
becomes the gentle Serafina! O! every moment furnishes me with fresh matter to admire the virtues
of thy soul.  If thou, whose tender heart hath been so rent with misery and anguish, canst
intercede for thy tormentor, who now suffers in his turn, shall I refuse to pardon the miserable
wretch!  No, let me glory in imitating the great example, and solicit Don Diego in behalf of
the same miscreant whose perfidious barbarity cost him such intolerable woe." "Enough," cried
the Castilian, "I have disclaimed the vindictive principles of a Spaniard; and leave the miserable
object to the sting of his own conscience, which, soon or late, will not fail to avenge the
wrongs we have sustained from his deceit."

CHAPTER SIXTY-SIX

THE HISTORY DRAWS NEAR A PERIOD.

Universal was the applause which they acquired by this noble sacrifice of their resentment.
The afternoon was spent in the utmost harmony and good-humour; and at the earnest solicitation
of Renaldo, whose fancy still harboured the apprehensions of another separation, Don Diego
consented that the indissoluble knot should be tied between that young gentleman and Serafina
in two days, and the place appointed for the ceremony was the very church where they had been
restored to the arms of each other.

The lovely bride, with a silent blush that set her lover's heart on fire, submitted to this
determination, in consequence of which the company was bespoke for that auspicious hour, and
the evening being pretty far advanced, they took leave of the ladies, and retired to their
respective homes; Don Diego and his future son-in-law being reconducted to their lodgings,
in the coach of the Jew, who, taking an opportunity of being alone with Melvil, observed that
it would be necessary on this occasion to supply the Castilian with a sum of money, in order
to support his dignity and independence, in furnishing Serafina with everything suitable to
her rank and merit; and that he would willingly accommodate him, provided he knew how to propose
it so as to give no offence to his punctilious disposition.

Renaldo, thanking him for this generous anticipation, advised him to solicit the Spaniard's
correspondence in the way of business, and to put the whole on the footing of his own interest;
by which means Don Diego's delicacy could sustain no affront.  Fraught with this instruction,
the Israelite desired a private audience of the Castilian, in which, after an apology for the
freedom of his demand, "Signior Don Diego," said he, "as your fortune hath been so long embezzled
by your adversary in Spain, and your correspondence with that country entirely cut off, it
is not to be supposed that your finances are at present in such a condition as to maintain
the splendour of your family.  Count de Melvil's whole fortune is at your command; and had
not he been afraid of giving umbrage to the peculiar delicacy of your sentiments, he would
have pressed you to use it for your convenience.  For my own part, over and above the inclination
I have to serve Don Diego, I consult my own private advantage in desiring you to accept my
service on this occasion.  Money is the chief commodity in which I deal, and, if you honour
me with your commands, I shall be a gainer by my obedience."

Don Diego replied, with a smile that denoted how well he understood the meaning of this address,
"Surely, Signior, I am bound by the strongest ties to exert my utmost endeavours for your advantage;
and I pray God this your proposal may have that issue.  I am well acquainted with the Count's
generosity and refined notions of honour; and too much obliged by him already, to hesitate
with punctilious reserve in accepting his future assistance.  Nevertheless, since you have
contrived a scheme for removing all scruples of that sort, I shall execute it with pleasure;
and, in the form of business, you shall have all the security I can give for what shall be
necessary to answer my present occasions."

The preliminaries being thus settled, Joshua advanced for his use a thousand pounds, for which
he would take neither bond, note, nor receipt, desiring only that the Castilian would mark
it in his own pocket-book, that the debt might appear, in case any accident should befall the
borrower.  Although the Spaniard had been accustomed to the uncommon generosity of Melvil,
he could not help wondering at this nobleness of behaviour, so little to be expected from any
merchant, much less from a Jewish broker.

While this affair was on the anvil, Renaldo, who could no longer withhold the communication
of his happiness from his sister and relations in Germany, took up the pen, and, in a letter
to his brother-in-law, recounted all the circumstances of the surprising turn of fate which
he had experienced since his arrival in England.  He likewise related the story of Don Diego,
informed them of the day appointed for his nuptials, and entreated the Major to make a journey
to London with his wife; or, if that should be impracticable, to come as far as Brussels, where
they should be met by him and his Serafina.  There was now but one day between him and the
accomplishment of his dearest wish, and that was spent in procuring a licence, and adjusting
the preparations for the grand festival.  Don Diego in the forenoon visited Madam Clement,
to whom he repeated his warm acknowledgments of her bounty and maternal affection to his daughter,
and presented to Serafina bank notes to the amount of five hundred pounds, to defray the necessary
expense for her wedding ornaments.

All the previous steps being taken for the solemnisation of this interesting event, and the
hour of appointment arrived, the bridegroom, accompanied by his father-in-law, hastened to
the place of rendezvous, which was the vestry-room of the church we have already described;
where they were received by the good clergyman in his canonicals; and here they had not waited
many minutes, when they were joined by Madam Clement and the amiable bride, escorted by the
friendly physician, who had all along borne such a share in their concerns.  Serafina was dressed
in a sack of white satin, and the ornaments of her head were adjusted in the Spanish fashion,
which gave a peculiar air to her appearance, and an additional spirit to those attractions
which engaged the heart of each beholder. There was nothing remarkable in the habit of Renaldo,
who had copied the plainness and elegance of his mistress; but, when she entered the place,
his features were animated with a double proportion of vivacity, and their eyes meeting, seemed
to kindle a blaze which diffused warmth and joy through the countenances of all present.

After a short pause, her father led her to the altar, and gave her away to the transported
Renaldo, before the priest who performed the ceremony, and bestowed the nuptial benediction
on this enraptured pair.  The sanction of the church being thus obtained, they withdrew into
the vestry, where Melvil sealed his title on her rosy lips, and presented his wife to the company,
who embraced her in their turns, with fervent wishes for their mutual happiness.

Though the scene of this transaction was remote from any inhabited neighbourhood, the church
was surrounded by a crowd of people, who, with uncommon demonstration of surprise and admiration,
petitioned Heaven to bless so fair a couple.  Such indeed was their eagerness to see them,
that some lives were endangered by the pressure of the crowd, which attended them with loud
acclamations to the coach, after the bridegroom had deposited in the hands of the minister
one hundred pounds for the benefit of the poor of that parish, and thrown several handfuls
of money among the multitude.  Serafina re-embarked in Madam Clement's convenience, with that
good lady and Don Diego, while Renaldo, with the clergyman and doctor, followed in Joshua's
coach, to a pleasant country-house upon the Thames, at a distance of a few miles from London.
This the Jew had borrowed from the owner for a few days, and there they were received by that
honest Hebrew, who had provided a very elegant entertainment for the occasion.  He had also
bespoke a small but excellent band of music, which regaled their ears while they sat at dinner;
and the afternoon being calm and serene, he prevailed on them to take the air on the river,
in a barge which he had prepared for the purpose.

But, notwithstanding this diversity of amusement, Renaldo would have found it the longest day
he had ever passed, had not his imagination been diverted by an incident which employed his
attention during the remaining part of the evening.  They had drunk tea, and engaged in a party
at whist, when they were surprised with a noise of contention from a public-house, that fronted
the windows of the apartment in which they sat.  Alarmed at this uproar, they forsook their
cards, and, throwing up the casement, beheld a hearse surrounded by four men on horseback,
who had stopped the carriage, and violently pulled the driver from his seat. This uncommon
arrest had engaged the curiosity of the publican's family, who stood at the door to observe
the consequence, when all of a sudden appeared a person in canonicals, well mounted, who, riding
up to those who maltreated the driver, bestowed upon one of them such a blow with the butt-end
of his whip, as laid him sprawling on the ground; and, springing from his saddle upon the box,
took the reins into his own hand, swearing with great vehemence, that he would murder every
man who should attempt to obstruct the hearse.

The good priest who had married Renaldo was not a little scandalised at this ferocious behaviour
in a clergyman, and could not help saying aloud, he was a disgrace to the cloth when the horseman
looking up to the window, replied, "Sir, may I be d--n'd, if any man in England has a greater
respect for the cloth than I have; but at present I am quite distracted."  So saying, he whipped
up the horses, and had actually disentangled the hearse from those who surrounded it, when
he was opposed by another troop, one of whom alighted with great expedition, and cut the harness
so as that he could not possibly proceed.  Finding himself thus driven to bay, he leaped upon
the ground, and exercised his weapon with such amazing strength and agility, that several of
his antagonists were left motionless on the field, before he was overpowered and disarmed by
dint of numbers, who assailed him on all sides.

The mad parson being thus taken prisoner, an elderly person, of a very prepossessing appearance,
went up to the hearse, and, unbolting the door, a young lady sprung out, and shrieking, ran
directly to the public-house, to the infinite astonishment and affright of the whole family,
who believed it was the spirit of the deceased person, whose body lay in the carriage.  Renaldo,
who was with difficulty restrained from interposing in behalf of the clergyman against such
odds, no sooner perceived this apparition, than, supposing her to be some distressed damsel,
his Quixotism awoke, he descended in an instant, and rushed into the house, among those that
pursued the fair phantom.  Don Diego and the physician took the same road, while the real clergyman
and Joshua tarried with the ladies, who were, by this time, very much interested in the event.

Melvil found the young lady in the hands of the old gentleman, who had released her from the
hearse, and who now bitterly upbraided her for her folly and disobedience; while she protested
with great vivacity, that whatever she might suffer from his severity, she would never submit
to the hateful match he had proposed, nor break the promise she had already made to the gentleman
who now attempted to rescue her from the tyranny of a cruel father.  This declaration was followed
by a plentiful shower of tears, which the father could not behold with unmoistened eyes, although
he reviled her with marks of uncommon displeasure; and turning to the Count, "I appeal to you,
sir," said he, "whether I have not reason to curse the undutiful obstinacy of that pert baggage,
and renounce her for ever as an alien to my blood.  She has, for some months, been solicited
in marriage by an honest citizen, a thirty thousand pound man; and instead of listening to
such an advantageous proposal, she hath bestowed her heart upon a young fellow not worth a
groat.  Ah! you degenerate hussy, this comes of your plays and romances.  If thy mother were
not a woman of an unexceptionable life and conversation, I should verily believe thou art no
child of mine.  Run away with a beggar! for shame!"

"I suppose," replied Renaldo, "the person to whom your daughter's affection inclines, is that
clergyman who exerted himself so manfully at the door?"  "Clergyman!" cried the other, "adad!
he has more of the devil than the church about him.  A ruffian! he has, for aught I know, murdered
the worthy gentleman whom I intended for my son-in-law; and the rogue, if I had not kept out
of his way, would, I suppose, have served me with the same sauce.  Me! who have been his master
for many years, and had resolved to make a man of him.  Sir, he was my own clerk, and this
is the return I have met with from the serpent which I cherished in my bosom."

Here he was interrupted by the arrival of the citizen for whom he had expressed such concern;
that gentleman had received a contusion upon one eye, by which the sight was altogether obstructed,
so that he concluded he should never retrieve the use of that organ, and with great clamour
took all the spectators to witness the injury he had sustained; he entered the room with manifest
perturbation, demanded satisfaction of the father, and peremptorily declared it should not
be a lost eye to him if there was law in England.  This unseasonable demand, and the boisterous
manner in which it was made, did not at all suit the present humour of the old gentleman, who
told him peevishly he owed him no eye, and bade him go and ask reparation of the person who
had done him wrong.

The young lady snatching this favourable occasion, earnestly entreated Melvil and his company
to intercede with her father in behalf of her lover, who, she assured them, was a young gentleman
of a good family, and uncommon merit; and in compliance with her request they invited him and
his daughter to the house in which they lodged, where they would be disencumbered of the crowd
which this dispute had gathered together, and more at leisure to consult about the measures
necessary to be taken.  The old gentleman thanked them for their courtesy, which he did not
think proper to refuse, and while he led, or rather hauled Mademoiselle over the way, under
the auspices of the Castilian, Renaldo set the lover at liberty, made him a tender of his good
offices, and advised him to wait at the public-house for an happy issue of their negotiation.

The pseudo-parson was very much affected by this generous proffer, for which he made suitable
acknowledgments, and protested before God he would die a thousand deaths rather than part with
his dear Charlotte.  Her father no sooner entered the apartment, than he was known by Joshua
to be a considerable trader in the city of London, and the merchant was glad to find himself
among his acquaintance.  He was so full of the story which had brought him thither, that he
had scarce sat down when he began to complain of his hard fate, in having an only child who
was so mean, stubborn, and contumacious; and every sentence was concluded with an apostrophe
of reproaches to the delinquent.

The Jew having allowed him to ring out his alarm, condoled his misfortune, and gravely counselled
the young lady to wean her affections from such an unworthy object, for he supposed her favourite
was a man of no principle, or liberal endowments, otherwise her father would not exclaim so
bitterly against her conduct.  Charlotte, who wanted neither beauty nor understanding, assured
him that her lover's character was, in all respects, unblemished, for the truth of which assertion
she appealed to her papa, who owned, with reluctance, that the young man was a gentleman by
birth, that he had served him with remarkable diligence and integrity, and that his accomplishments
were far superior to his station in life.  "But then," said he, "the fellow has not a shilling
of his own, and would you have me give away my daughter to a beggar?"

"God forbid!" cried the Jew, "I always understood you possessed an ample fortune, and am sorry
to find it otherwise."  "Otherwise!" cried the citizen, with some acrimony, "take care what
you say, sir; a merchant's credit is not to be tampered with."  "I beg your pardon," answered
the Hebrew, "I concluded that your circumstances were bad, because you objected to the poverty
of the young man after you had owned he was possessed of every other qualification to make
your daughter happy; for it is not to be imagined that you would thwart her inclinations, or
seek to render an only child miserable on account of an obstacle which you yourself could easily
remove.  Let us suppose you can afford to give with your daughter ten thousand pounds, which
would enable this young man to live with credit and reputation, and engage advantageously in
trade, for which you say he is well qualified, the alternative then will be, whether you would
rather see her in the arms of a deserving youth whom she loves, enjoying all the comforts of
life with a moderate fortune, which it will always be in your own power to improve, or tied
for life to a monied man whom she detests, cursing her hard fate, and despising that superfluity
of wealth, in spite of which she finds herself so truly wretched."

The old gentleman seemed to be startled at this observation, which was reinforced by Renaldo's
saying, that he would, moreover, enjoy the unutterable pleasure of giving happiness to a worthy
man, whose gratitude would co-operate with his love, in approving himself a dutiful son, as
well as an affectionate husband.  He then represented the family disquiets and dismal tragedies
produced from such mercenary and compulsive matches, and, in conclusion related the story of
Don Diego and his daughter, which when the merchant heard, he started up with marks of terror
in his countenance, and, throwing up the casement, called upon Valentine with great vociferation.
This was the name of his daughter's admirer, who no sooner heard the summons than he flew to
the spot from whence it came, and the merchant, without any further preamble, seizing his hand,
joined it with that of Charlotte, saying, with great trepidation, "Here, take her, in the name
of God, and thank this honourable company for your good fortune."

The lovers were transported with exquisite joy at this sudden determination in their favour.
Valentine, having kissed the hand of his mistress with all the eagerness of rapture, and acknowledged
the merchant's generosity, paid his respects to the ladies with a very polite address, and
with demonstrations of uncommon gratitude and sensibility, thanked the gentlemen, and the Count
in particular, for their good offices, to which he attributed the happiness he now enjoyed.
While Serafina and Madam Clement caressed the amiable Charlotte, the rest of the company congratulated
her admirer upon his choice and success, though the clergyman could not help reprehending him
for profaning the sacerdotal habit.

Valentine heartily asked pardon for having given such cause of offence, and hoped he should
be forgiven, as it was a disguise which he thought absolutely necessary for the execution of
a scheme upon which his happiness depended.  He then, at the request of Renaldo, unfolded the
mystery of the hearse, by giving them to understand that Charlotte's father having got inkling
of their mutual passion, had dismissed his clerk, and conveyed his daughter to a country-house
in the neighbourhood of London, in order to cut off their correspondence; notwithstanding these
precautions they had found means to communicate with each other by letters, which were managed
by a third person; and his rival being very importunate in his solicitations, they had concerted
the expedient of the hearse, which he provided and conducted through a road contiguous to the
end of the merchant's garden, where Charlotte, being apprised of the design, waited for its
approach, and embarked in it without hesitation. Valentine thought himself sufficiently screened
from discovery by his disguise, but he was unfortunately met by a servant of the family, who
recollected his features, and immediately gave the alarm, upon which the father and his friends
took horse, and pursued them by two different roads, until they were overtaken at this place.

He had scarce finished this short relation, when his rival, bluntly entering the apartment,
with an handkerchief tied round his eye, committed Valentine to the charge of a constable,
who attended him, by a warrant from a justice of the peace in that neighbourhood, and threatened
to prosecute the merchant on an action of damages for the loss of an eye, which he said he
had sustained in his service.  The company endeavoured to appease this citizen, by representing
that his misfortune was no other than a common inflammation, nor was it owing to malice aforethought,
but entirely to the precipitate passion of an incensed young man, who, by the bye, acted in
his own defence.  At the same time the merchant promised to make any reasonable satisfaction,
upon which the other demanded an obligation, importing that he would, in ten days from the
date, bestow upon him his daughter in marriage, with a portion of fifteen thousand pounds,
or, in case of failure, pay him double the sum.

The merchant, exasperated at this extravagant demand, told him flatly he had already disposed
of his daughter to Valentine, who, he believed, was a much more deserving man, and that he
was ready to wait upon the magistrate who had granted the warrant, in order to give bail for
his future son-in-law.  This was a mortifying declaration to the plaintiff, though he condoled
himself with the hope of being a gainer by the loss of his eye, and now the pain was over would
have been very sorry to find his sight retrieved.  The old gentleman, Joshua, and Renaldo accompanied
the prisoner to the house of the justice, where he was immediately admitted to bail.  Upon
their return Valentine shifted his dress, and they supped together with great cordiality and
mirth, maintained at the expense of the discarded lover.

After supper Don Diego walked a minuet with Madam Clement; for whom, by this time, he had contracted
an extraordinary degree of affection. Valentine had the honour to dance with the incomparable
Serafina, whose beauty and attractions dazzled the eyes of the new-comers, and struck her bashful
partner with awe and confusion; and Melvil presented his hand to the agreeable Charlotte, who
performed so much to the satisfaction of her father, that he could not help expressing his
joy and pride.  He praised God for throwing him in the way of our company, and engaged the
clergyman to unite the young couple, after having appointed a day for the ceremony, and invited
all present to the wedding.  The evening having been insensibly consumed in these avocations,
and the night pretty far advanced, the ladies withdrew without ceremony; and the retreat of
Serafina filled Renaldo's breast with tumult and emotion; his blood began to flow in impetuous
tides, his heart to beat with redoubled vigour and velocity, while his eyes seemed to flash
with more than human splendour. Now his imagination began to anticipate with the enthusiastic
rage of an inspired sibyl; he was instantaneously transported from the conversation, and every
nerve was braced to such a degree of impatience, that human nature could not long endure the
tension.

He, therefore, having withstood the impulse about a quarter of an hour, at length gave way
to his impetuosity, and, springing from his friends, found himself in a dark passage, at the
farther end of which he perceived Madam Clement coming out of a chamber with a light, which,
at sight of him, she set down, and vanished in a moment.  This was the star that pointed to
his paradise; he hailed the signal, entered the apartment, and, like a lion, rushing on his
prey, approached the nuptial bed, where Serafina, surrounded by all the graces of beauty, softness,
sentiment, and truth, lay trembling as a victim at the altar, and strove to hide her blushes
from his view--the door was shut, the light extinguished--he owned his lot was more than mortal
man could claim.

Here let me draw the decent veil that ought to shade the secret mysteries of Hymen.  Away,
unhallowed scoffers, who profane, with idle pleasantry or immodest hint, these holy rites;
and leave those happy lovers to enjoy, in one another's arms, unutterable bliss, the well-earned
palm of virtue and of constancy, which had undergone the most severe refinement. A more deserving
pair night's curtain shrouds not in its dark extent.

The thoughts of Renaldo's felicity threw a damp on the spirits of Valentine, who saw the term
of his probation protracted a few days longer, and could not help wishing in his heart that
he had achieved the adventure which would have abridged his expectation, though at the expense
of the old gentleman's displeasure.  He filled a bumper to the health of the bride and bridegroom,
and throwing up his eyes with marks of admiration, exclaimed, "How happy is the Count! alas!
five days longer must I rein my impatience!"  "It is but reasonable, you rogue, that your betters
should have the start of you," said the merchant, who did him justice in the glass, and counselled
him to drown his impatience with good claret.  The youth followed his advice, and it was late
before the company retired to rest.

These citizens, however, resolved to seize an opportunity of rallying the new-married couple,
according to custom, and with that view arose early in the morning, on the supposition of finding
them still asleep; but they were not a little surprised, when they entered the breakfasting
room, to see Renaldo, and his amiable bed-fellow, already dressed, and awaiting to do the honours
of the house.  The old gentleman would fain have cracked a joke upon their extraordinary despatch,
but he was so much overawed by the dignity and tamed by the sweetness of Serafina's carriage,
that he durst not give utterance to his conception; and Valentine stood silent and abashed,
as in the presence of a superior being.  After breakfast these gentlemen and Charlotte again
expressed their sense of the obligations they owed to this happy family, repeated their invitation,
and, taking leave, returned to London in a coach that was provided overnight.

Our friends being thus left to themselves, Don Diego turned towards Melvil: "Now," said he,
"that I have yielded to the impatience of your love, as well as to the eagerness of my own
desire to make you happy, I must beg leave to interrupt, for a little while, the stream of
your mutual pleasure, and propose a melancholy excursion, which, however, will not be wholly
void of enjoyment.  I have too long delayed the performance of my duty at Antonia's grave--let
us spend the forenoon in that pious pilgrimage--I will drop a few tears to the memory of that
excellent woman, and never afterwards shall my friends be troubled with my grief."

The proposal being universally approved, they set out for the place, which had oft been visited
by the gentle Serafina, who conducted her father to a black marble stone, which Renaldo had
ordered to be laid over the grave; and, as he kneeled to kiss the monument, he perceived this
plain inscription in the Spanish tongue:--Antonia de Zelos primera en todo lo que es ser bueno,
y sin segundo en todo lo que fue ser desdichado, quedad con Dios! that is, Antonia de Zelos,
unmatched in virtue, and unequalled in misfortune, adieu!  "O faithful record!" cried the Castilian,
smiting his breast, while his tears distilled upon the marble, "thy goodness was the gift of
Heaven, but thy misfortunes were derived from the guilt of Don Diego; yet his sorrow shall
expiate his offence, and his penitence find favour in the sight of Heaven!  Rest, rest, ill-fated
virtue!--eternal peace shall guard thy tomb, and angels minister to thy unspotted shade; nor
shall thine ashes lie in dark obscurity here will I raise a monument, more suited to thy excellence
and name."  Serafina melted with filial tenderness; nor were the rest unmoved at this affecting
scene, which Don Diego did not quit without reluctance.

CHAPTER SIXTY-SEVEN

THE LONGEST AND THE LAST.

The nature of this visit had softened every heart, and saddened every countenance; and they
walked in solemn silence to the other side of the church-yard, in order to regain their carriages;
when, at the turning of the stile, they saw a young woman, in wretched attire, running out
of a poor habitation, wringing her hands in all the agony of despair. Notwithstanding the distraction
in her countenance, and the meanness of her apparel, she discovered a regularity of features,
and a delicacy of air, which did not at all correspond with the misery of her equipage. These
exhibitions of extreme distress soon attracted the notice and compassion of our company, and
Melvil's beauteous help-mate, accosting this forlorn damsel with a pity-breathing aspect, asked
the cause of her disorder.

"Alas! dear lady," cried the other, with all the emphasis of woe, "an unhappy gentleman now
breathes his last within this inhospitable hovel, amidst such excess of misery as would melt
the most flinty bosom.  What then must I feel, who am connected with him by the strongest ties
of love and conjugal affection?"  "Who is the unfortunate object?" said the physician.  "He
was once well known in the gay world," replied the young woman; "his name is Fathom."  Every
individual of the company started at mention of that detested name.  Serafina began to tremble
with emotion; and Renaldo, after a short pause, declared he would go in, not with a view to
exult over his misery, but in order to contemplate the catastrophe of such a wicked life, that
the moral might be the more deeply engraved on his remembrance.  The young Countess, whose
tender heart could not bear the shock of such a spectacle, retired to the coach with Madam
Clement and the Jew, while Renaldo, accompanied by the rest, entered a dismal apartment, altogether
void of furniture and convenience, where they beheld the wretched hero of these memoirs stretched
almost naked upon straw, insensible, convulsed, and seemingly in the grasp of death.  He was
worn to the bone either by famine or distemper; his face was overshadowed with hair and filth;
his eyes were sunk, glazed, and distorted; his nostrils dilated; his lips covered with a black
slough; and his complexion faded into a pale clay-colour, tending to a yellow hue.  In a word,
the extremity of indigence, squalor, and distress could not be more feelingly represented.

While Melvil perused this melancholy lesson, and groaning, cried, "Behold the fate of man!"
he perceived a letter in the right hand of the unfortunate Fathom, which lay fast clenched
across his breast.  Curious to know the contents of this paper, which the young woman said
he had kept in that position for several days, he drew nearer the wretched couch, and was not
a little surprised to see it addressed to the Right Honourable Renaldo Count de Melvil, to
the care of Mr. Joshua Manesseh, merchant in London.  When he attempted to disengage this billet
from the author's hand, the sorrowing female fell upon her knees, entreating him to desist,
and telling him, she had promised, upon oath, to communicate the contents to no person upon
earth, but to carry the letter, upon her husband's decease, to the gentleman to whose care
it was directed.

Renaldo assured her, upon his honour, that he was the very Renaldo Count de Melvil, for whom
it was intended; and the young creature was so much confounded at this information, that, before
she could recollect herself, Melvil had opened the billet, and read these words: "If this paper
should fall into the hands of the noble Renaldo, he will understand, that Fathom was the most
execrable traitor that ever imposed upon unsuspecting benevolence, or attempted to betray a
generous benefactor.  His whole life was a series of fraud, perfidy, and the most abominable
ingratitude. But, of all the crimes that lay heavy upon his soul, his being accessory to the
death of the incomparable Serafina, whose father he had also robbed, was that for which he
despaired of Heaven's forgiveness, notwithstanding the dreadful compunction and remorse which
have long preyed upon his heart, together with the incredible misery and deplorable death which
by this time he hath undergone.  Though these sufferings and sorrows cannot atone for his enormous
guilt, perhaps they will excite the compassion of the humane Count de Melvil; at least, this
confession, which my conscience dictates under all the terrors of death and futurity, may be
a warning for him to avoid henceforth a smiling villain, like the execrable Fathom, upon whose
miserable soul Almighty God have mercy."

Renaldo was deeply affected with the contents of this scroll, which denoted such horror and
despair.  He saw there could be no dissimulation or sinister design in this profession of penitence.
He beheld the condition of the writer, which put all his humane passions in commotion; so that
he remembered nothing of Fathom but his present distress.  He could scarce maintain those indications
which might have been justly deemed the effect of weakness and infirmity; and having desired
the physician and clergyman to contribute their assistance for the benefit of that wretch's
soul and body, he ran to the coach, and communicated the letter to the ladies; at the same
time drawing a picture of the object he had seen, which brought tears into the eyes of the
gentle Serafina, who earnestly entreated her lord to use his endeavours for the relief and
recovery of the unhappy man, that he might, if possible, live to enjoy the benefit of mature
repentance, and not die in that dreadful despair which he manifested in the letter.

Renaldo, returning to the house, found the pious clergyman reading prayers with great fervency,
while Don Diego stood with his right hand upon his breast, looking steadfastly upon the agonising
Fathom, and the young woman kneeled, with her streaming eyes lifted up to heaven, in an ecstasy
of grief and devotion.  The physician had run to an apothecary's shop in the neighbourhood,
from whence he soon returned with an assistant, who applied a large blister to the back of
the miserable patient, while the female, by the doctor's direction, moistened his mouth with
a cordial which he had prescribed.

These charitable steps being taken, Count de Melvil entreated the apothecary's servant to procure
a tent-bed for the accommodation of the sick person with all imaginable despatch; and, in less
than an hour, one was actually pitched, and Fathom lifted into it, after he had been shifted,
and in some measure purified from the dregs of his indigence. During this transaction the ladies
were conducted to a tavern not far off, where dinner was bespoke, that they might be at hand
to see the effect of their charity, which was not confined to what we have already described,
but extended so far, that, in a little time, the apartment was comfortably furnished, and the
young creature provided with change of apparel, and money to procure the necessaries of subsistence.

Notwithstanding all their care, the wretched Fathom still remained insensible, and the doctor
pronounced a very unfavourable prognostic, while he ordered a pair of additional vesicatories
to be laid upon his arms, and other proper medicines to be administered.  After dinner, the
ladies ventured to visit the place, and when Serafina crossed the threshold, the weeping female
fell at her feet, and, kissing her robe, exclaimed, "Sure you are an angel from heaven."

The alteration in her dress had made a very agreeable change in her appearance, so that the
Countess could now look upon her without shuddering at her distress.  And, as Fathom was not
in a condition to be disturbed, she took this opportunity of inquiring by what steps that unfortunate
wretch was conveyed from the prison, in which she knew he had been confined, to the place where
he now lay in such extremity; and by what occurrence he had found a wife in such an abyss of
misfortune.  Here the other's tears began to flow afresh.  "I am ashamed," said she, "to reveal
my own folly; yet I dare not refuse a satisfaction of this kind to a person who has laid me
under such signal obligations."

She then proceeded to relate her story, by which it appeared, she was no other than the fair
and unhappy Elenor, whom the artful Fathom had debauched upon his first arrival in town, in
the manner already described in these memoirs.  "Heaven," continued she, "was pleased to restore
the use of my reason, which I had lost when I found myself abandoned by the Count; but, all
my connexion with my own family being entirely cut off, and every door shut against a poor
creature who could procure no recommendation, except the certificate signed by the physician
of Bedlam, which, instead of introducing me to service, was an insurmountable objection to
my character, I found myself destitute of all means of subsisting, unless I would condescend
to live the infamous and wretched life of a courtezan, an expedient rendered palatable by the
terrors of want, cooperating with the reflection of the irretrievable loss I had already sustained.
I ask pardon for offending your chaste ears with this impure confession of my guilt, which,
Heaven knows, I then did, and now do look upon with abhorrence and detestation.  I had already
forfeited my innocence, and wanted resolution to encounter misery and death. Nevertheless,
before I could determine to embrace the condition of a prostitute, I was one day accosted in
the Park by an elderly gentleman who sat down by me upon a bench, and, taking notice of the
despondence which was evident in my countenance, pressed me to make him acquainted with the
nature of my misfortune.  So much sympathy and good sense appeared in his deportment and conversation,
that I gratified his request, and he, in return for my confidence, saved me from the most horrible
part of my prospect, by taking me into his protection, and reserving me for his own appetite.
In this situation I lived a whole year, until I was deprived of my keeper by an apoplectic
fit, and turned out of doors by his relations, who did not, however, strip me of the clothes
and moveables which I owed to his bounty.  Far from being as yet reconciled to a vicious life,
I resolved to renounce the paths of shame, and, converting my effects into ready money, hired
a small shop, and furnished it with haberdashery ware, intending to earn an honest livelihood
by the sale of these commodities, together with the plain work in which I hoped to be employed
so soon as my talents should be known. But this scheme did not answer my expectation.  The
goods spoiled upon my hands, and, as I was a stranger in the neighbourhood, nobody would intrust
me with any other business.  So that, notwithstanding the most parsimonious economy, I ran
in debt to my landlord, who seized my effects; and an hosier, from whom I had received some
parcels upon credit, took out a writ against me, by virtue of which I was arrested and imprisoned
in the Marshalsea, where I found my first seducer.  Good Heaven! what did I feel at this unexpected
meeting, overwhelmed as I was before with my own distress!  I with a loud scream fainted away,
and, when I recovered, found myself in the arms of Mr. Fathom, who wept over me with great
affliction.  All his prospects of gaiety had now vanished, and his heart was softened by his
own misfortunes, to a feeling of another's woe, as well as to a due sense of his own guilt.
He expressed the deepest sorrow for having been the occasion of my ruin, endeavoured to comfort
me with a promise of assistance, and indeed, by practising medicine among the prisoners, made
shift to keep us both from starving. But surely no sinner underwent such severe remorse as
that which he suffered during his imprisonment.  From the day of our meeting, I never once
saw him smile; a melancholy cloud continually overhung his countenance.  He numbered the minutes
by his groans, he used to start with horror from his sleep, and, striking his breast, would
exclaim, 'O Elenor!  I am the worst of villains!'  Sometimes he seemed disordered in his brain,
and raved about Renaldo and Monimia.  In a word, his mind was in a dreadful situation, and
all his agonies were communicated to me, whom by this time he had married, in order to make
some atonement for my wrongs.  Wretched as he then was, I remembered the accomplished youth
who had captivated my virgin heart, the old impressions still remained, I saw his penitence,
pitied his misfortune, and his wife being dead, consented to join his fate, the ceremony having
been performed by a fellow-prisoner, who was in orders.  Though his hard-hearted creditor had
no other chance of being paid, than that of setting him at liberty, he lent a deaf ear to all
our supplications; and this cruelty conspiring with the anguish of my husband's own reflection,
affected his health and spirits to such a degree, that he could no longer earn the miserable
pittance which had hitherto supported our lives.  Then our calamities began to multiply.  Indigence
and famine stared us in the face; and it was with the utmost difficulty that we resisted their
attacks, by selling or pledging our wearing apparel, until we were left almost quite naked,
when we found ourselves discharged by an act passed for the relief of insolvent debtors.  This
charitable law, which was intended for a consolation to the wretched, proved to us the most
severe disaster; for we were turned out into the streets, utterly destitute of food, raiment,
and lodging, at a time when Mr. Fathom was so weakened by his distemper, that he could not
stand alone.  I supported him from door to door, imploring the compassion of charitable Christians,
and was at length permitted to shelter him in this miserable place, where his disease gaining
ground, he lay three days in that deplorable condition, from which he hath now been rescued,
though I fear too late, by your humanity and benevolence."

She shed a flood of tears at the conclusion of this mournful tale, which did not fail to affect
the whole audience, especially Serafina, who assured her, that, whatever should happen to her
husband, she might depend upon finding favour and protection, provided her conduct should correspond
with her professions.  While this grateful creature kissed the hand of her kind benefactress,
Fathom uttered a groan, began to stir in the bed, and with a languid voice called upon Elenor,
who, instantly withdrawing the curtain, presented the whole company to his view.  He had now
retrieved the use of his perception by the operation of the blisters, which began to torture
him severely; he looked around him with amazement and affright, and distinguishing the three
persons against whom the chief arrows of his fraud and treachery had been levelled, he concluded
that he was now arrived at the land of departed souls, and that the shades of those whom he
had so grievously injured were come to see him tormented according to his demerits.

Fraught with this notion, which was confirmed by the bodily pain which he felt, and the appearance
of the clergyman and Joshua, whom he mistook for the ministers of vengeance, he cried in a
tone replete with horror, "Is there no mercy then for penitence?  Is there no pity due to the
miseries I suffered upon earth?  Save me, O bountiful Heaven! from the terrors of everlasting
woe; hide me from these dreadful executioners, whose looks are torture.  Forgive me, generous
Castilian.  O Renaldo! thou hadst once a tender heart.  I dare not lift my eyes to Serafina!
that pattern of human excellence, who fell a victim to my atrocious guilt; yet her aspect is
all mildness and compassion.  Hah! are not these the drops of pity? Yes, they are the tears
of mercy.  They fall like refreshing showers upon my drooping soul!  Ah, murdered innocence!
wilt thou not intercede for thy betrayer at the throne of grace!"

Here he was interrupted by Melvil, who with a grave and solemn air pronounced, "Great hath
been thy guilt, unhappy Ferdinand, and great have been thy sufferings.  Yet we come not to
insult, but to alleviate thy distress.  Providence hath kindly defeated thy dire intentions,
which we therefore now forgive and transmit to oblivion, whether it be thy lot to yield up
thy spirit immediately, or to survive the dangerous malady with which thou art at present overwhelmed.
Suffer not thyself to despair; for the mercy of Heaven is infinite; and submit to the directions
of this worthy gentleman, who will employ his skill for thy recovery, while we shall take care
to furnish thee with necessary attendance.  As too much speaking may be prejudicial to thy
health, I dispense with thy reply, and exhort thee to compose thyself to rest."  So saying,
he drew the curtain, and the company retired, leaving Fathom entranced with wonder.

The next step which Renaldo took for the benefit of this wretched penitent, was to send for
the apothecary, with whom he left a sum of money to be expended for the convenience of Fathom
and his wife; then he laid injunctions upon the physician to repeat his visits; and that gentleman,
together with the clergyman and Joshua, taking leave of the others till next day, the Count
set out with the ladies and his father-in-law to the house where they had lodged the preceding
night.

The reader may well imagine the conversation of the evening turned wholly upon the strange
occurrence of the day, which seemed to have been concerted by supernatural prescience, in order
to satisfy the vengeance, and afford matter of triumph to the generosity of those who had been
so grievously injured by the guilty Fathom.  Though not one of them would say that such a miscreant
ought to live, yet all concurred in approving the offices of humanity which had been performed,
and even endeavoured to find specious pretext for vindicating their compassion.  Don Diego
said, it would ill become a transgressor like him to withhold his forgiveness from a sinner
who had wronged him.  Madam Clement appealed to the approbation of Heaven, which had undoubtedly
directed them that way, for the purpose they had fulfilled.  Serafina observed, that the crimes
of the delinquent were obliterated by his sorrow, misery, and repentance. Renaldo honestly
owned, that, exclusive of other reasons, he could not deny himself the luxurious enjoyment
of communicating happiness to his fellow-creatures in distress; and each fervently prayed,
that their charity might not be disappointed by the death of the object.

While they amused themselves in these discussions, Fathom, after having lain some hours silent,
in consequence of Renaldo's advice, could no longer suppress the astonishment of his mind,
but, addressing himself to his wife, "O Elenor!" said he, "my delirium is now past; though
I still remember the phantasies of my distempered brain.  Among other reveries, my imagination
was regaled with a vision so perfect and distinct, as to emulate truth and reality.  Methought
Count de Melvil, Don Diego de Zelos, and the divine Serafina, the very persons who are now
crying before the throne of Heaven for vengeance against the guilty Fathom, stood by my bedside,
with looks of pity and forgiveness; and that Renaldo spoke peace to my despairing soul.  I
heard the words distinctly.  I retain them in my memory.  I saw the tears trickle from Serafina's
eyes. I heard her father utter a compassionate sigh; and should actually believe that they
were personally present, had not I long ago seen with my own eyes the funeral procession of
that young lady, whose wrongs God pardon; and were I not convinced that such a meeting could
not be effected without the immediate and miraculous interposition of Heaven. Yet everything
I now see corresponds with the words of Renaldo, which still sound in my ears.  When my perception
forsook me, I lay in the most abject misery, among straw; and thou, poor injured innocence,
wast naked and forlorn.  Now, I find myself reposed in a warm, easy, comfortable bed.  I see
around me the marks of human charity and care, and the favourable change in thy appearance
glads my poor dejected heart.  Say, whence this happy alteration?  Do I really awake from that
dream of misery in which we have continued so long? or do I still utter the extravagant ravings
of a distempered brain?"

Elenor was afraid of imparting at once all the particulars of the happy change he had undergone,
lest they might leave a dangerous impression upon his fancy, which was not yet duly composed.
She contented herself, therefore, with telling him, that he had been obliged to the humanity
of a gentleman and lady, who chanced to pass that way by accident, and who, understanding his
deplorable case, had furnished him with the conveniences which he now enjoyed.  She then presented
to him what the doctor had directed her to administer, and, admonishing him to commit his head
to the pillow, he was favoured with a breathing sweat, fell fast asleep, and in a few hours
waked again altogether cool and undisturbed.

It was upon this occasion that his wife explained the circumstances of that visit which had
redeemed him from extremity of wretchedness and the jaws of death; upon which he started up,
and throwing himself upon his knees, exclaimed, "All-gracious Power! this was the work of thy
own bounteous hand; the voice of my sorrow and repentance hath been heard. Thou hast inspired
my benefactors with more than mortal goodness in my behalf; how shall I praise thy name! how
shall I requite their generosity!  Oh, I am bankrupt to both! yet let me not perish until I
shall have convinced them of my reformation, and seen them enjoying that felicity which ought
to be reserved for such consummate virtue."

Next day, in the forenoon, he was visited by the physician, whom he now recollected to have
seen at the house of Madam Clement; and, after having thanked that gentleman for his humanity
and care, he earnestly begged to know by what means Serafina had been preserved.  When he was
satisfied in this particular, and given to understand that she was now happy in the arms of
Renaldo, "Blessed be God!" he cried, "for having defeated the villany of him who sought to
part such lovers.  Dear sir, will you add one circumstance to your charity, and bear to that
happy couple, and the noble Don Diego, the respects and the remorse of a sincere penitent,
whom their compassion hath raised to life?  I have been such a traitor to them, that my words
deserve no regard.  I will not therefore use professions.  I dare not hope to be admitted into
their presence.  I am indeed ashamed to see the light of the sun.  How then could I bear the
looks of that injured family? ah, no! let me hide myself in some obscure retreat, where I may
work out my salvation with fear and trembling, and pray incessantly to Heaven for their prosperity."

The physician promised to represent his contrition to the Count and his lady, and accordingly
proceeded to their habitation, where he repeated these expressions, and pronounced his patient
out of danger.  So that their thoughts were now employed in concerting a scheme for his future
subsistence, that he might not be exposed by indigence to a relapse in point of morals.  Renaldo
being still averse to any personal intercourse with such a wretch, until he should give some
undoubted proofs of amendment, and, as yet afraid of intrusting him with any office that required
integrity, resolved, with the approbation of all present, to settle him in a cheap county in
the north of England, where he and his wife could live comfortably on an annuity of sixty pounds,
until his behaviour should entitle him to a better provision.

This resolution was just taken, when Joshua arrived with a gentleman whom he introduced to
Don Diego as the secretary of the Spanish ambassador. After the first compliments, the stranger
told the Castilian, that he waited upon him at the desire of his Excellency, who would have
come in person, had he not been confined by the gout.  Then he put into his hand a letter from
the court of Madrid, written by a nobleman of Diego's acquaintance, who informed him, that
Don Manuel de Mendoza having made away with himself by poison, in order to avoid the disgrace
of a legal conviction, his Catholic Majesty was now convinced of Don Diego's innocence, and
granted him leave to return and take possession of his honours and estate.  This information
was confirmed by the secretary, who assured him that the ambassador had orders to make him
acquainted with this favourable decision of the King.  The Castilian having first acquitted
himself in the most polite terms to the secretary and the Jew, who, he said, had always been
a messenger of glad tidings, communicated his happiness to the company; and this evening concluded
the third day of their rejoicing.

Next morning Don Diego went to visit the ambassador, accompanied by Joshua and the secretary;
while the physician, repairing to the habitation of Fathom, signified, by Renaldo's direction,
the resolution which had been taken in his behalf; and the patient no sooner heard his doom,
than, lifting up his hands, he cried, "I am unworthy of such tenderness and benevolence." 
While Elenor shed a flood of tears in silence, unable to give utterance to her grateful thought;
Melvil's bounty having so far transcended her most sanguine hope.

The Spaniard having paid his devoirs to his Excellency, returned before dinner; and, in the
afternoon, desiring a private conference with Serafina, they retired into another apartment,
and he expressed himself to this effect: "You have contracted, my dear child, an habit of calling
Madam Clement your mother, and doubtless, by her maternal tenderness and regard, she hath acquired
a just title to the appellation.  Yet I own I would fain strengthen it by a legal claim.  I
no sooner retrieved my daughter than I gave her away to the most deserving youth that ever
sighed with love.--I rejoice in the gift which secured your happiness. But I left myself in
a solitary situation, which even the return of my good fortune cannot render easy and supportable.
When I revisit the Castle of Zelos, every well-known object will recall the memory of my Antonia,
and I shall want a companion to fill her place, and to sympathise with me in that sorrow which
will be derived from my remembrance.  Who is there so worthy to succeed your mother in the
affection of Don Diego, as she who interests her love for Serafina, and resembles her so strongly
in every virtue of the sex?  Similar attractions will produce similar effects.  My heart is
already attached to that good lady; and, provided Serafina shall approve of my choice, I will
lay myself and fortune at her feet."

The fair Countess replied, with an enchanting smile, that, before this declaration, she had
with pleasure perceived the progress which Madam Clement had made in his heart; and that she
did not believe there was a person upon earth better qualified to repair the loss he had sustained;
though she foresaw one obstacle to his happiness, which she was afraid would not be easily
surmounted.  "You mean," answered the Castilian, "the difference of religion, which I am resolved
to remove by adopting the Protestant faith; though I am fully satisfied that real goodness
is of no particular persuasion, and that salvation cannot depend upon belief, over which the
will has no influence.  I invest you, therefore, with the charge of declaring my passion and
proposal, and empower you to satisfy her scruples with regard to the religion which I now profess,
and which I shall not openly relinquish, until I shall have secured, in this country, effects
sufficient to screen me from the ill consequences of my King's displeasure."

Serafina undertook this office with pleasure, because she had reason to think his addresses
would not be disagreeable to Madam Clement; and that same night made the Count acquainted with
the nature of her commission. Nor was her expectation disappointed.  The French lady, with
that frankness which is peculiar to virtue and good breeding, confessed that Don Diego was
not indifferent to her choice, and did not hesitate in receiving him upon the footing of a
lover.--As we have already dwelt circumstantially on the passion of love, so as perhaps even
to have tired our readers, we shall not repeat the dialogue that passed, when the Spaniard
was indulged with an opportunity to explain his sentiments. Suffice it to observe, that the
lady's days of coquetry were now over, and that she was too wise to trifle with the time, which
every moment became more and more precious.  It was agreed then, that Don Diego should settle
his affairs in Spain, and return to England, in order to espouse Madam Clement, with a view
to fix his residence in this island, where Renaldo likewise proposed to enjoy the sweets of
his fortune, provided he could draw hither his interests and connexions.

Meanwhile, having for some days enjoyed his bliss with all the fulness of rapture amidst this
small but agreeable society, he shifted the scene, and conducted his dear partner to a ready-furnished
house in town, which, together with an occasional equipage, his friend Joshua had hired for
the accommodation of him and his father-in-law, who, during his stay in England, failed not
to cultivate the mistress of his heart with the most punctual assiduity.  Hitherto Serafina
had been as a precious jewel locked up in a casket, which the owner alone had an opportunity
to contemplate.  But now the Count, who was proud of such a prize, resolved to let her shine
forth to the admiration of the whole world.  With this view he bespoke such ornaments as befitted
her quality, and, while the mantua-makers were employed in her service, made a tour among his
former acquaintance, and discharged the obligations under which he lay to some who had assisted
him in his distress.  He did not, however, introduce them to his charming Serafina; because
not one of them had formerly treated her with that delicacy of regard which he thought her
due; and some of them were much mortified at their neglect, when they saw what a dazzling figure
she made in the beau monde.

She was visited by the Spanish and Imperial ambassadors, and divers other foreigners of distinction,
to whom Melvil had letters of recommendation. But her first public appearance was in a box
at the opera, accompanied by Madam Clement, the Count, and Don Diego.  The entertainment was
already begun, so that her entrance had the greater effect upon the audience, whose attention
was soon detached from the performance, and riveted upon this amiable apparition, which seemed
to be some bright being of another world dropped from the clouds among them.  Then did the
spirit of curiosity play its part.  A thousand whispers circulated; as many glasses were exalted
to reconnoitre this box of foreigners; for such they concluded them to be from their appearance.
Every male spectator acknowledged Serafina to be the paragon of beauty; and every female confessed,
that Melvil was the model of a fine gentleman.  The charms of the young Countess did not escape
the eye and approbation of royalty itself; and when her rank was known, from the information
of the ambassadors and other people of condition who were seen saluting her at a distance,
that same evening a thousand bumpers were swallowed in honour of the Countess de Melvil.  The
fame of her beauty was immediately extended over this immense metropolis, and different schemes
were concerted for bringing her into life.  These, however, she resisted with unwearied obstinacy.
Her happiness centred in Renaldo, and the cultivation of a few friends within the shade of
domestic quiet.  She did not even forget the concerns of the wretched Fathom and his faithful
Elenor, who daily enjoyed fresh instances of her humanity and care.  When his fever forsook
him, he was supplied with nourishing food for the recovery of his health; and as soon as he
found himself in a condition to travel, he gave notice to his benefactor, who desired Joshua
to settle with him the manner in which he was to receive his allowance, and to pay the first
half-year's salary per advance.

This affair being adjusted, and the place of his retreat signified, the Jew told Elenor, that
she might wait upon the Countess before their departure; and she did not fail to make use of
this permission.  After they had made the necessary preparations for their journey, and taken
places in the York stage-coach, Mrs. Fathom, clothing herself in decent apparel, went to the
house of Count Melvil, and was immediately admitted to the presence of Serafina, who received
her with her usual complacency, enriched her with salutary advice, comforted her with the hope
of better things, provided her conduct and that of her husband should henceforth be found irreproachable;
and, wishing her peace and happiness, presented her with a box of linen, and twenty guineas
in a purse.  Such excessive goodness overpowered this sensible young woman to such a degree,
that she stood before her in speechless awe and veneration; and the Countess, in order to relieve
her from the confusion under which she suffered, quitted the room, leaving her to the care
of her woman.  It was not long, however, before her gratitude broke out in loud exclamations
and a violent passion of tears, which all her efforts could not, for a while, overcome.  By
this time the coach was brought up to the gate for the reception of Serafina, who took an airing
every day at the same hour; when Renaldo, leading her to the vehicle, beheld a man plainly
dressed standing within the court, with his head and body bent towards the earth, so that his
countenance could not be perceived.

Melvil, who supposed him to be some unfortunate man come to implore his charity, turned towards
him, and asked with a humane accent, if he wanted to speak with any person in the house?  To
this interrogation the stranger replied, without lifting up his head, "Overwhelmed as I am
with Count Melvil's generosity, together with a consciousness of my own unworthiness, it ill
becomes a wretch like me to importune him for further favour; yet I could not bear the thought
of withdrawing, perhaps for ever, from the presence of my benefactor, without soliciting his
permission to see his face in mercy, to acknowledge my atrocious crimes, to hear my pardon
confirmed by his voice, and that of his accomplished Countess, whom I dare not even at a distance
behold; and to express my fervent wish for their prosperity."

Melvil, whose heart was but too tender, could not hear this address without emotion.  He recognised
the companion of his infancy and youth; he remembered the happy scenes he had enjoyed with
Fathom, whose voice had always such an effect upon his ear, as to excite the ideas of friendship
and esteem; and he was disturbed by this unexpected meeting, which also discomposed the beauteous
Serafina.  Renaldo having paused a little, "It is with pain," said he, "I recollect anything
to the prejudice of Fathom, whose future behaviour will, I hope, erase the memory of his offences,
and justify what other steps I may take in his favour.  Meanwhile, I heartily forgive what
is past; and, in token of my sincerity, present my hand;" which our adventurer bathed with
his tears. The Countess, whose mind was in unison with her husband, repeated her assurances
of pardon and protection; at which the penitent rejoiced in silence, while he raised his head
and took a parting view of those charms which had formerly enslaved his heart.

Having thus obeyed the dictates of his duty and inclination, he next morning embarked in the
stage-coach, with his faithful Elenor, and in six days arrived at the place of his retreat,
which he found extremely well adapted to the circumstances of his mind and fortune.  For all
his vice and ambition was now quite mortified within him, and his whole attention engrossed
in atoning for his former crimes, by a sober and penitent life, by which alone he could deserve
the uncommon generosity of his patrons.

While he thus accommodated himself to his new system, Renaldo received letters of congratulation
from his sister, who with the Major had come to Brussels, in order to meet her brother and
Serafina, according to his proposal.  This intimation being communicated to Don Diego, he resolved
to accompany them to Flanders, on his way to Spain.  Preparations were made for their departure;
the clergyman and physician were honoured with valuable marks of friendship and esteem from
the Countess, Renaldo, and the Castilian, who were convoyed to Deal by Madam Clement, to whom,
at parting, Don Diego presented a diamond ring, as a pledge of his inviolable love.

Here the travellers hired a vessel for Ostend, which they reached in a few hours; in two days
more they arrived at Brussels, where Mrs. Farrel and her husband were struck with admiration
at the surprising beauty and accomplishment of their sister-in-law, whom they caressed with
equal tenderness and joy.--In a word, all parties were as happy as good fortune could make
them; and Don Diego set out for Spain, after they had agreed to reside in the Low Countries
till his return.

THE END.