'The reasoning by which our inventor arrives at the seemingly paradoxical conclusion, that
the air is destined to be the high-road par excellence, and to serve as the medium of transportation
for the heaviest loads, is certainly very ingenious; of its conclusiveness, we must leave our
readers to judge for themselves.

'Progression from the simple to the composite, says M. Pétin, is the universal law. In the
works of nature, the action of this law is everywhere visible; and man, in his works, follows
the path thus consecrated by the footsteps of the Creator. Thus we find, he continues, that
the point multiplied by itself produces the line; the line, in like manner, produces the plane;
and the plane, the cube; an ascending series, which he conceives to have its exact analogy
in that furnished by the earth, the water, and the air, considered as media of locomotion.
In other words, the point, or primary germ of extension, corresponds, according to the theory
of M. Pétin, with the fulcrum, or primary condition of locomotion; the line, first and simplest
form of extension, corresponds with locomotion on the surface of the earth, where, owing to
topographic inequalities, and other obstacles, locomotion can take place only in its first
and simplest mode--namely, in a linear direction; the plane, produced by the movement of the
line, and constituting a higher term of superficial development, corresponds with locomotion
upon the water, whose unencumbered surface, which can be traversed in every direction, presents
a locomotive medium, the facilities of which, compared with those offered by the surface of
the earth, increase in the ratio of the difference of extension between the line and the plane.

'The cube, product of the plane multiplied by itself, corresponds with locomotion in the air,
where the aëronaut, being surrounded on every side by fulcra furnished by the various strata
of the atmosphere, moves at will in every direction; pressing on the higher strata in ascending,
on the lower in descending, on the lateral in turning to the right or to the left, and thus
commanding a sphere of locomotion whose extent and facilities, compared with those afforded
by the water, are as the cube to the plane.

'Aërial navigation being thus, according to his theory, the highest form of locomotion, M.
Pétin considers himself as justified in assuming, a priori, that this mode of transportation
will offer facilities superior to those of every other in point of safety, speed, power, and
cheapness; but on condition of its being carried into effect upon a scale commensurate with
the vastness of its field and the importance of its results.

'To convince ourselves that such is really the intention of Providence, and that balloons are
destined to transport the heaviest loads, we have only, continues M. Pétin, to examine the
law which presides over the development of spheric bodies; the surface of a sphere being represented
by the square of the radius, while its contenance, or containing power, is represented by the
cube of the radius. In other words, if we increase the diameter of a sphere three times, although
we increase its surface only nine times, we increase its containing power twenty-seven times.
Therefore, by constructing balloons on a very large scale, as the extent of surface, and consequent
resistance of the air, increases in an immensely smaller proportion than the containing power,
we may obtain an almost fabulous amount of ascensional force. For instance: a balloon of one
hundred yards in diameter would suffice to raise only ten millions of pounds; but ten such
balloons ranged one behind the other, or, better still, a cigar-shaped balloon, which would
be equivalent to these ten balloons united in one (an arrangement which, as the law of development
is similar for spheric and for cylindric bodies, would greatly diminish the resistance of the
air, without occasioning any loss of containing power), would suffice to raise one hundred
millions of pounds; and allowing some four or five millions of pounds for the weight of the
vessel and its machinery, which, for a ship of this size--supposing it were possible to make
its various parts hold together--should be, M. Pétin computes, of twelve hundred horse-power,
we should still have at command a surplus ascensional force of upwards of ninety millions of
pounds; a force sufficient to sustain a body of fifty thousand men!

'In the construction of these enormous balloons, M. Pétin proposes to substitute, in place
of the silken bag hitherto used to contain the gas, a rigid envelope of a cylindro-conical
form, composed of a series of metallic tubes, laid one above the other, and supplied with gas--obtainable
to any amount and almost instantaneously--from the decomposition of water by a powerful electric
battery; and with these resources at command, M. Pétin conceives that balloons might be constructed
on a scale even larger than that just given!

'In fact, this assumption of the possibility of obtaining command of an unlimited ascensional
force has suggested, to certain enthusiastic partisans of M. Pétin's theory and plans, a long
perspective of astounding visions, from which sober-minded Englishmen would, in all probability,
turn away with derision. These enthusiasts have evidently adopted the language of Archimedes,
and are ready to exclaim: "Give us a fulcrum, and," with hydrogen gas as our lever, "we will
move the world!"

'For ourselves, we have already stated the facts from which we derive our conviction that the
conquest of the air, if achieved, is to be brought about through the agency of new and powerful
mechanical combinations, rather than by means of the balloon; and though, as before remarked,
the experiments of M. Pétin and others may probably not be without useful results, we dismiss
these brilliant phantasmagoria with the charitable reflection, that the extravagance of overweening
hopefulness is, at least in an age which has witnessed the advent of steam and electricity,
more natural and more pardonable than the scepticism of confirmed despondency; and that "he
who shoots at the stars," though missing his aim, will at all events shoot higher than he who
aims at the mud beneath his feet.

'Meantime, the science of meteorology--a subject intimately connected with that of aëro-locomotion--though
yet in its infancy, already furnishes many indications of great importance, as establishing
a very strong presumption in favour of the existence of permanent atmospheric currents, blowing
continuously in various directions at different degrees of elevation.

'We know that air, when rarefied by heat, becomes lighter and rises, cold air immediately rushing
in to supply its place; and it is evident, therefore, that if two neighbouring regions of the
atmosphere are unequally heated, this inequality of temperature will give rise to two currents
of air--a warm one, in the upper region of the atmosphere, blowing from the warmer to the colder
region; and a cold one, near the surface of the earth, blowing from the colder to the warmer
region. It can, therefore, hardly be matter of doubt, that great permanent currents, caused
by the unequal heating of the equatorial and polar regions, do exist in the higher strata of
the atmosphere--an inference which is supported not only by the occurrence of the trade-winds
and the monsoon, but by a variety of other facts and observations.

