The object of the present book is therefore to carry further the enquiry I began in World Revolution,
by tracing the course of revolutionary ideas through secret societies from the earliest times,
indicating the rôle of the Jews only where it is to be clearly detected, but not seeking to
implicate them where good evidence is not forthcoming. For this reason I shall not base assertions
on merely "anti-Semite" works, but principally on the writings of the Jews themselves. In the
same way with regard to secret societies I shall rely as far as possible on the documents and
admissions of their members, on which point I have been able to collect a great deal of fresh
data entirely corroborating my former thesis. It should be understood that I do not propose
to give a complete history of secret societies, but only of secret societies in their relation
to the revolutionary movement. I shall therefore not attempt to describe the theories of occultism
nor to enquire into the secrets of Freemasonry, but simply to relate the history of these systems
in order to show the manner in which they have been utilized for a subversive purpose. If I
then fail to convince the incredulous that secret forces of revolution exist, it will not be
for want of evidence.

Nesta H. Webster.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

PART I THE PAST

   I. THE ANCIENT SECRET TRADITION
  II. THE REVOLT AGAINST ISLAM
 III. THE TEMPLARS
  IV. THREE CENTURIES OF OCCULTISM
   V. THE ORIGINS OF FREEMASONRY
  VI. THE GRAND LODGE ERA
 VII. GERMAN TEMPLARISM AND FRENCH ILLUMINISM
VIII. THE JEWISH CABALISTS
  IX. THE BAVARIAN ILLUMINATI
   X. THE CLIMAX

PART II THE PRESENT

  XI. MODERN FREEMASONRY
 XII. SECRET SOCIETIES IN ENGLAND
XIII. OPEN SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENTS
 XIV. PAN-GERMANISM
  XV. THE REAL JEWISH PERIL

CONCLUSION

APPENDIX:
   I. JEWISH EVIDENCE ON THE TALMUD
  II. THE "PROTOCOLS" OF THE ELDERS OF ZION

INDEX

PART I

THE PAST

1

THE ANCIENT SECRET TRADITION

The East is the cradle of secret societies. For whatever end they may have been employed, the
inspiration and methods of most of those mysterious associations which have played so important
a part behind the scenes of the world's history will be found to have emanated from the lands
where the first recorded acts of the great human drama were played out--Egypt, Babylon, Syria,
and Persia. On the one hand Eastern mysticism, on the other Oriental love of intrigue, framed
the systems later on to be transported to the West with results so tremendous and far-reaching.

In the study of secret societies we have then a double line to follow--the course of associations
enveloping themselves in secrecy for the pursuit of esoteric knowledge, and those using mystery
and secrecy for an ulterior and, usually, a political purpose.

But esotericism again presents a dual aspect. Here, as in every phase of earthly life, there
is the revers de la médaille--white and black, light and darkness, the Heaven and Hell of the
human mind. The quest for hidden knowledge may end with initiation into divine truths or into
dark and abominable cults. Who knows with what forces he may be brought in contact beyond the
veil? Initiation which leads to making use of spiritual forces, whether good or evil, is therefore
capable of raising man to greater heights or of degrading him to lower depths than he could
ever have reached by remaining on the purely physical plane. And when men thus unite themselves
in associations, a collective force is generated which may exercise immense influence over
the world around. Hence the importance of secret societies.

Let it be said once and for all, secret societies have not always been formed for evil purposes.
On the contrary, many have arisen from the highest aspirations of the human mind--the desire
for a knowledge of eternal verities. The evil arising from such systems has usually consisted
in the perversion of principles that once were pure and holy. If I do not insist further on
this point, it is because a vast literature has already been devoted to the subject, so that
it need only be touched on briefly here.

Now, from the earliest times groups of Initiates or "Wise Men" have existed, claiming to be
in possession of esoteric doctrines known as the "Mysteries," incapable of apprehension by
the vulgar, and relating to the origin and end of man, the life of the soul after death, and
the nature of God or the gods. It is this exclusive attitude which constitutes the essential
difference between the Initiates of the ancient world and the great Teachers of religion with
whom modern occultists seek to confound them. For whilst religious leaders such as Buddha and
Mohammed sought for divine knowledge in order that they might impart it to the world, the Initiates
believed that sacred mysteries should not be revealed to the profane but should remain exclusively
in their own keeping, although the desire for initiation might spring from the highest aspiration,
the gratification, whether real or imaginary, of this desire often led to spiritual arrogance
and abominable tyranny, resulting in the fearful trials, the tortures physical and mental,
ending even at times in death, to which the neophyte was subjected by his superiors.

The Mysteries

According to a theory current in occult and masonic circles, certain ideas were common to all
the more important "Mysteries," thus forming a continuous tradition handed down through succeeding
groups of Initiates of different ages and countries. Amongst these ideas is said to have been
the conception of the unity of God. Whilst to the multitude it was deemed advisable to preach
polytheism, since only in this manner could the plural aspects of the Divine be apprehended
by the multitude, the Initiates themselves believed in the existence of one Supreme Being,
the Creator of the Universe, pervading and governing all things, Le Plongeon, whose object
is to show an affinity between the sacred Mysteries of the Mayas and of the Egyptians, Chaldeans,
and Greeks, asserts that "The idea of a sole and omnipotent Deity, who created all things,
seems to have been the universal belief in early ages, amongst all the nations that had reached
a high degree of civilization. This was the doctrine of the Egyptian priests."[11] The same
writer goes on to say that the "doctrine of a Supreme Deity composed of three parts distinct
from each other, yet forming one, was universally prevalent among the civilized nations of
America, Asia, and the Egyptians," and that the priests and learned men of Egypt, Chaldea,
India, or China "...kept it a profound secret and imparted it only to a few select among those
initiated in the sacred mysteries."[12] This view has been expressed by many other writers,
yet lacks historical proof.

That monotheism existed in Egypt before the days of Moses is, however, certain. Adolf Erman
asserts that "even in early times the educated class" believed all the deities of the Egyptian
religion to be identical and that "the priests did not shut their eyes to this doctrine, but
strove to grasp the idea of the one God, divided into different persons by poesy and myth....
The priesthood, however, had not the courage to take the final step, to do away with those
distinctions which they declared to be immaterial, and to adore the one God under the one name."[13]
It was left to Amenhotep IV, later known as Ikhnaton, to proclaim this doctrine openly to the
people. Professor Breasted has described the hymns of praise to the Sun God which Ikhnaton
himself wrote on the walls of the Amarna tomb-chapels:

     They show us the simplicity and beauty of the young king's faith in
     the sole God. He had gained the belief that one God created not
     only all the lower creatures but also all races of men, both
     Egyptians and foreigners. Moreover, the king saw in his God a
     kindly Father, who maintained all his creatures by his goodness....
     In all the progress of men which we have followed through thousands
     of years, no one had ever before caught such a vision of the great
     Father of all.[14]

May not the reason why Ikhnaton was later described as a "heretic" be that he violated the
code of the priestly hierarchy by revealing this secret doctrine to the profane? Hence, too,
perhaps the necessity in which the King found himself of suppressing the priesthood, which
by persisting in its exclusive attitude kept what he perceived to be the truth from the minds
of the people.

The earliest European centre of the Mysteries appears to have been Greece, where the Eleusinian
Mysteries existed at a very early date. Pythagoras, who was born in Samos about 582 B.C., spent
some years in Egypt, where he was initiated into the Mysteries of Isis. After his return to
Greece, Pythagoras is said to have been initiated into the Eleusinian Mysteries and attempted
to found a secret society in Samos; but this proving unsuccessful, he journeyed on to Crotona
in Italy, where he collected around him a great number of disciples and finally established
his sect. This was divided into two classes of Initiates--the first admitted only into the
exoteric doctrines of the master, with whom they were not allowed to speak until after a period
of five years' probation; the second consisting of the real Initiates, to whom all the mysteries
of the esoteric doctrines of Pythagoras were unfolded. This course of instruction, given, after
the manner of the Egyptians, by means of images and symbols, began with geometrical science,
in which Pythagoras during his stay in Egypt had become an adept, and led up finally to abstruse
speculations concerning the transmigration of the soul and the nature of God, who was represented
under the conception of a Universal Mind diffused through all things. It is, however, as the
precursor of secret societies formed later in the West of Europe that the sect of Pythagoras
enters into the scope of this book. Early masonic tradition traces Freemasonry partly to Pythagoras,
who is said to have travelled in England, and there is certainly some reason to believe that
his geometrical ideas entered into the system of the operative guilds of masons.

The Jewish Cabala[15]

According to Fabre d'Olivet, Moses, who "was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians," drew
from the Egyptian Mysteries a part of the oral tradition which was handed down through the
leaders of the Israelites.[16] That such an oral tradition, distinct from the written word
embodied in the Pentateuch, did descend from Moses and that it was later committed to writing
in the Talmud and the Cabala is the opinion of many Jewish writers.[17]

The first form of the Talmud, called the Mischna, appeared in about the second or third century
A.D.; a little later a commentary was added under the name of the Gemara. These two works compose
the Jerusalem Talmud, which was revised in the third to the fifth centry[A]. This later edition
was named the Babylonian Talmud and is the one now in use.

The Talmud relates mainly to the affairs of everyday life--the laws of buying and selling,
of making contracts--also to external religious observances, on all of which the most meticulous
details are given. As a Jewish writer has expressed it:

     ... the oddest rabbinical conceits are elaborated through many
     volumes with the finest dialectic, and the most absurd questions
     are discussed with the highest efforts of intellectual power; for
     example, how many white hairs may a red cow have, and yet remain a
     red cow; what sort of scabs require this or that purification;
     whether a louse or a flea may be killed on the Sabbath--the first
     being allowed, while the second is a deadly sin; whether the
     slaughter of an animal ought to be executed at the neck or the
     tail; whether the high priest put on his shirt or his hose first;
     whether the Jabam, that is, the brother of a man who died
     childless, being required by law to marry the widow, is relieved
     from his obligation if he falls off a roof and sticks in the
     mire.[18]

But it is in the Cabala, a Hebrew word signifying "reception," that is to say "a doctrine orally
received," that the speculative and philosophical or rather the theosophical doctrines of Israel
are to be found. These are contained in two books, the Sepher Yetzirah and the Zohar.

The Sepher Yetzirah, or Book of the Creation, is described by Edersheim as "a monologue on
the part of Abraham, in which, by the contemplation of all that is around him, he ultimately
arrives at the conclusion of the unity of God"[19]; but since this process is accomplished
by an arrangement of the Divine Emanations under the name of the Ten Sephiroths, and in the
permutation of numerals and of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet, it would certainly convey
no such idea--nor probably indeed any idea at all--to the mind uninitiated into Cabalistic
systems. The Sepher Yetzirah is in fact admittedly a work of extraordinary obscurity[20] and
almost certainly of extreme antiquity. Monsieur Paul Vulliaud, in his exhaustive work on the
Cabala recently published,[21] says that its date has been placed as early as the sixth century
before Christ and as late as the tenth century A.D., but that it is at any rate older than
the Talmud is shown by the fact that in the Talmud the Rabbis are described as studying it
for magical purposes.[22] The Sepher Yetzirah is also said to be the work referred to in the
Koran under the name of the "Book of Abraham."[23]

The immense compilation known as the Sepher-Ha-Zohar, or Book of Light, is, however, of greater
importance to the study of Cabalistic philosophy. According to the Zohar itself, the "Mysteries
of Wisdom" were imparted to Adam by God whilst he was still in the Garden of Eden, in the form
of a book delivered by the angel Razael. From Adam the book passed on to Seth, then to Enoch,
to Noah, to Abraham, and later to Moses, one of its principal exponents.[24] Other Jewish writers
declare, however, that Moses received it for the first time on Mount Sinai and communicated
it to the Seventy Elders, by whom it was handed down to David and Solomon, then to Ezra and
Nehemiah, and finally to the Rabbis of the early Christian era.[25]

Until this date the Zohar had remained a purely oral tradition, but now for the first time
it is said to have been written down by the disciples of Simon ben Jochai. The Talmud relates
that for twelve years the Rabbi Simon and his son Eliezer concealed themselves in a cavern,
where, sitting in the sand up to their necks, they meditated on the sacred law and were frequently
visited by the prophet Elias.[26] In this way, Jewish legend adds, the great book of the Zohar
was composed and committed to writing by the Rabbi's son Eliezer and his secretary the Rabbi
Abba.[27]

The first date at which the Zohar is definitely known to have appeared is the end of the thirteenth
century, when it was committed to writing by a Spanish Jew, Moses de Leon, who, according to
Dr. Ginsburg, said he had discovered and reproduced the original document of Simon ben Jochai;
his wife and daughter, however, declared that he had composed it all himself.[28] Which is
the truth? Jewish opinion is strongly divided on this question, one body maintaining that the
Zohar is the comparatively modern work of Moses de Leon, the other declaring it to be of extreme
antiquity. M. Vulliaud, who has collated all these views in the course of some fifty pages,
shows that although the name Zohar might have originated with Moses de Leon, the ideas it embodied
were far older than the thirteenth century. How, he asks pertinently, would it have been possible
for the Rabbis of the Middle Ages to have been deceived into accepting as an ancient document
a work that was of completely modern origin?[29] Obviously the Zohar was not the composition
of Moses de Leon, but a compilation made by him from various documents dating from very early
times. Moreover, as M. Vulliaud goes on to explain, those who deny its antiquity are the anti-Cabalists,
headed by Graetz, whose object is to prove the Cabala to be at variance with orthodox Judaism.
Theodore Reinach goes so far as to declare the Cabala to be "a subtle poison which enters into
the veins of Judaism and wholly infests it"; Salomon Reinach calls it "one of the worst aberrations
of the human mind."[30] This view, many a student of the Cabala will hardly dispute, but to
say that it is foreign to Judaism is another matter. The fact is that the main ideas of the
Zohar find confirmation in the Talmud. As the Jewish Encyclopædia observes, "the Cabala is
not really in opposition to the Talmud," and "many Talmudic Jews have supported and contributed
to it."[31] Adolphe Franck does not hesitate to describe it as "the heart and life of Judaism."[32]
"The greater number of the most eminent Rabbis of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries
believed firmly in the sacredness of the Zohar and the infallibility of its teaching."[33]

The question of the antiquity of the Cabala is therefore in reality largely a matter of names.
That a mystical tradition existed amongst the Jews from remote antiquity will hardly be denied
by anyone[34]; it is therefore, as M. Vulliaud observes, "only a matter of knowing at what
moment Jewish mysticism took the name of Cabala."[35] Edersheim asserts that--

     It is undeniable that, already at the time of Jesus Christ, there
     existed an assemblage of doctrines and speculations that were
     carefully concealed from the multitude. They were not even revealed
     to ordinary scholars, for fear of leading them towards heretical
     ideas. This kind bore the name of Kabbalah, and as the term (of
     Kabbalah, to receive, transmit) indicates, it represented the
     spiritual traditions transmitted from the earliest ages, although
     mingled in the course of time with impure or foreign elements.[36]

Is the Cabala, then, as Gougenot des Mousseaux asserts, older than the Jewish race, a legacy
handed down from the first patriarchs of the world?[37] We must admit this hypothesis to be
incapable of proof, yet it is one that has found so much favour with students of occult traditions
that it cannot be ignored. The Jewish Cabala itself supports it by tracing its descent from
the patriarchs--Adam, Noah, Enoch, and Abraham--who lived before the Jews as a separate race
came into existence. Eliphas Lévi accepts this genealogy, and relates that "the Holy Cabala"
was the tradition of the children of Seth carried out of Chaldea by Abraham, who was "the inheritor
of the secrets of Enoch and the father of initiation in Israel."[38]

According to this theory, which we find again propounded by the American Freemason, Dr. Mackey,[39]
there was, besides the divine Cabala of the children of Seth, the magical Cabala of the children
of Cain, which descended to the Sabeists, or star-worshippers, of Chaldea, adepts in astrology
and necromancy. Sorcery, as we know, had been practised by the Canaanites before the occupation
of Palestine by the Israelites; Egypt India, and Greece also had their soothsayers and diviners.
In spite of the imprecations against sorcery contained in the law of Moses, the Jews, disregarding
these warnings, caught the contagion and mingled the sacred tradition they had inherited with
magical ideas partly borrowed from other races and partly of their own devising. At the same
time the speculative side of the Jewish Cabala borrowed from the philosophy of the Persian
Magi, of the Neo-Platonists,[40] and of the Neo-Pythagoreans. There is, then, some justification
for the anti-Cabalists' contention that what we know to-day as the Cabala is not of purely
Jewish origin.

Gougenot des Mousseaux, who had made a profound study of occultism, asserts that there were
therefore two Cabalas: the ancient sacred tradition handed down from the first patriarchs of
the human race; and the evil Cabala, wherein this sacred tradition was mingled by the Rabbis
with barbaric superstitions, combined with their own imaginings and henceforth marked with
their seal.[41] This view also finds expression in the remarkable work of the converted Jew
Drach, who refers to--

     The ancient and true Cabala, which ... we distinguish from the
     modern Cabala, false, condemnable, and condemned by the Holy See,
     the work of the Rabbis, who have also falsified and perverted the
     Talmudic tradition. The doctors of the Synagogue trace it back to
     Moses, whilst at the same time admitting that the principal truths
     it contains were those known by revelation to the first patriarchs
     of the world.[42]

Further on Drach quotes the statement of Sixtus of Sienna, another converted Jew and a Dominican,
protected by Pius V:

     Since by the decree of the Holy Roman Inquisition all books
     appertaining to the Cabala have lately been condemned, one must
     know that the Cabala is double; that one is true, the other false.
     The true and pious one is that which ... elucidates the secret
     mysteries of the holy law according to the principle of anagogy
     (i.e. figurative interpretation). This Cabala therefore the Church
     has never condemned. The false and impious Cabala is a certain
     mendacious kind of Jewish tradition, full of innumerable vanities
     and falsehoods, differing but little from necromancy. This kind of
     superstition, therefore, improperly called Cabala, the Church
     within the last few years has deservedly condemned.[43]

The modern Jewish Cabala presents a dual aspect--theoretical and practical; the former concerned
with theosophical speculations, the latter with magical practices. It would be impossible here
to give an idea of Cabalistic theosophy with its extraordinary imaginings on the Sephiroths,
the attributes and functions of good and bad angels, dissertations on the nature of demons,
and minute details on the appearance of God under the name of the Ancient of Ancients, from
whose head 400,000 worlds receive the light. "The length of this face from the top of the head
is three hundred and seventy times ten thousand worlds. It is called the 'Long Face,' for such
is the name of the Ancient of Ancients."[44] The description of the hair and beard alone belonging
to this gigantic countenance occupies a large place in the Zoharic treatise, Idra Raba.[45]

According to the Cabala, every letter in the Scriptures contains a mystery only to be solved
by the initiated.[46] By means of this system of interpretation passages of the Old Testament
are shown to bear meanings totally unapparent to the ordinary reader. Thus the Zohar explains
that Noah was lamed for life by the bite of a lion whilst he was in the ark,[47] the adventures
of Jonah inside the whale are related with an extraordinary wealth of imagination,[48] whilst
the beautiful story of Elisha and the Shunnamite woman is travestied in the most grotesque
manner.[49]

