Little in the restricted space here available can be, though much might be in a larger, said
about the remaining attempts in English fiction before the middle of the sixteenth century.
The later romances, down to those of Lord Berners, show the character of the older with a certain
addition of the "conjuror's supernatural" of the Amadis school. But the short verse-tales,
especially those of the Robin Hood cycle, and some of the purely comic kind, introduce an important
variation of interest: and even some of the longer, such as that Tale of Beryn, which used
to be included in Chaucer's works, vary the chivalrous model in a useful way. Still more important
is the influence of the short prose tale:--first Latin, as in the Gesta Romanorum (which of
course had older and positively mediæval forerunners), then Italian and French. The prose saved
the writer from verbiage and stock phrase; the shortness from the tendency to "watering out"
which is the curse of the long verse or prose romance. Moreover, to get point and appeal, it
was especially necessary to throw up the subject--incident, emotion, or whatever it was--to
bring it out; not merely to meander and palaver about it. But language and literature were
both too much in a state of transition to admit of anything capital being done at this time.
It was the great good fortune of England, corresponding to that experienced with Chaucer in
poetry three quarters of a century earlier, that Malory came to give the sum and substance
of what mediæval fiction could do in prose. For more, the times and the men had to come.

CHAPTER II

FROM LYLY TO SWIFT

During the dying-off of romance proper, or its transference from verse to prose in the late
fifteenth and earlier sixteenth century, there is not very much to note about prose fiction
in England. But, as the conditions of modern literature fashioned themselves, a very great
influence in this as in other departments was no doubt exercised with us by Italian, as well
as some by Spanish in a way which may be postponed for a little. The Italian prose tale had
begun to exercise that influence as early as Chaucer's time: but circumstances and atmosphere
were as yet unfavourable for its growth. It is a hackneyed truism that Italian society was
very much more modern than any other in Europe at this time--in fact it would not be a mere
paradox to say that it was, and continued to be till the later sixteenth, much more modern
than it has ever been since--or till very recently. By "modern" is here meant the kind of society
which is fairly cultivated, fairly comfortable, fairly complicated with classes not very sharply
separated from each other, not dominated by any very high ideals, tolerably corrupt, and sufficiently
business-like. The Italian novella, of course, admits wild passions and extravagant crimes:
but the general tone of it is bourgeois--at any rate domestic. With its great number of situations
and motives, presented in miniature, careful work is necessary to bring out the effect: and,
above all, there is abundant room for study of manners, for proverbial and popular wisdom and
witticism, for "furniture"--to use that word in a wide sense. Above all, the Italian mind,
like the Greek, had an ethical twist--twist in more senses than one, some would say, but that
does not matter. Manners, morals, motives--these three could not but displace, to some extent,
mere incident: though there was generally incident of a poignant or piquant kind as well. In
other words the novella was actually (though still in miniature) a novel in nature as well
as in name. And these novelle became, as is generally known, common in English translations
after the middle of the sixteenth century. Painter's huge Palace of Pleasure (1566) is only
the largest and best known of many translations, single and collected, of the Italian novellieri
and the French tale-tellers, contemporary, or of times more or less earlier.

For some time, as almost everybody knows, these collections of translated matter served a purpose--great
indeed, but somewhat outside their proper department--by furnishing the Elizabethan dramatists
with a large part--perhaps the larger part--of their subjects. But they very soon began to
exercise it directly by suggesting the fictitious part of the prose pamphlet--a department
which, though infinitely less well known than the plays, and still not very easy to know, holds
almost the second position as representing the popular literature of the Elizabethan time.
And they also had--in one case certainly, in the other probably--no little influence upon the
two great Elizabethan works which in a manner founded the modern novel and the modern romance
in English--the Euphues of Lyly and the Arcadia of Sir Philip Sidney.

The pamphlet stories (which are themselves often play-connected, as in the case of Lodge's
Rosalynde and Greene's Pandosto) do not require much notice, with one exception--Nash's Jack
Wilton or the Unfortunate Traveller, to which some have assigned a position equal, or perhaps
superior in our particular subject, to that of the Arcadia or that of Euphues. This seems to
the present writer a mistake: but as to appear important is (in a not wholly unreal sense)
to be so, the piece shall be separately considered. The rest are mostly marred by a superabundance
of rather rudimentary art, and a very poor allowance of matter. There is hardly any character,
and except in a few pieces, such as Lodge's Margarite of America, there is little attempt to
utilise new scenes and conditions. But the whole class has special interest for us in one peculiarity
which makes it perhaps unreadable to any but students, and that is its saturation with the
Elizabethan conceit and word-play which is sometimes called Euphuism. Nor is this wonderful,
considering that more than one of these "pamphlets" is directly connected with the matter and
the personages of Euphues itself. To this famous book, therefore, we had better turn.

Some people, it is believed, have denied that Euphues is a novel at all; and some of these
some have been almost indignant at its being called one. It is certainly, with Rasselas, the
most remarkable example, in English, of a novel which is to a great extent deprived of the
agrémens to which we have for some two centuries been accustomed in the kind, and, to a still
greater, loaded with others which do not appeal to us. To put aside altogether its extraordinary
and in a way epoch-making style, which gives it its main actual place in the history of English
literature, it is further loaded with didactic digressions which, though certain later novelists
have been somewhat peccant in the kind, have never been quite equalled--no, not in Rasselas
itself or the Fool of Quality. But if anybody, who has the necessary knowledge to understand,
and therefore the necessary patience to tolerate, these knotty knarry envelopes, insertions,
and excrescences, will for the moment pay no attention to them, but merely strip them off,
he will find the carcass of a very tolerable novel left behind. The first plot of Philautus--Euphues--Lucilla,
and the successive jilting of the two friends for each other and for Curio, is no mean novel-substance.
Not Balzac himself, certainly no one of his successors, need disdain it: and more than one
of them has taken up something like it. The journey from Naples to London, and the episode
of Fidus and Iffida, could have been worked up, in the good old three-volume days, to a most
effective second volume. And the picture of the court, with the further loves of Philautus,
Camilla, and the "violet" Frances, would supply a third of themselves even if Euphues were
left out, though some livelier presentation of his character (which Lyly himself was obviously
too much personally interested to make at all clear) would improve the whole immensely. But
it was still too early: the thing was not yet to be done. Only, I do not know any book in which
the possibilities, and even the outlines, of this thing were indicated and vaguely sketched
earlier in any European language, unless it be the Lucretia and Euryalus of Æneas Silvius,
which is much more confined in its scope.

The fact is that the very confusedness, the many undeveloped sides, of Euphues, make it much
more of an ancestor of the modern novel than if it were more of a piece. The quicquid agunt
homines is as much the province of the novel as of the satire; and there is more than something
of this as it affected Elizabethan times in Euphues. Men's interest in morals, politics, and
education; their development of the modern idea of society; their taste for letters; their
conceits and fancies--all these appear in it.

The Arcadia stands in a different compartment. Euphues is very much sui generis: failure as
it may be from some points of view, it deserves the highest respect for this, and like most
other things sui generis it was destined to propagate the genus, if only after many days. The
Arcadia was in intention certainly, and to great extent in actual fact, merely a carrying out
of the attempt, common all over Europe (as a result of the critical searchings of heart of
the Italians), to practise a new kind--the Heroic Romance of the sub-variety called pastoral.
The "heroic" idea generally was (as ought to be, but perhaps is not, well known) to blend,
after a fashion, classical and romantic characteristics--to substitute something like the classic
unity of fable or plot for the mere "meandering" of romantic story, and to pay at least as
much attention to character as the classics had paid, instead of neglecting it altogether,
as had recently though not always been the case in Romance. But the scheme retained on the
other hand the variety of incident and appeal of this latter: and especially assigned to Love
the high place which Romance had given it. As for the Pastoral--that is almost a story to itself,
and a story which has been only once (by Mr. W.W. Greg) satisfactorily, and then not quite
completely, told. It is enough to say here, and as affecting our own subject, that it supplied
a new opportunity of gratifying the passion of the Renaissance for imitating antiquity, at
the same time permitting to no small extent the introduction of things that were really romantic,
and above all providing a convention. The Heroic romance generally and the Pastoral in particular
went directly back to the Greek romances of Heliodorus and Longus: but they admitted many new
and foreign elements.

At the same time, bastard as the heroic romance was, it could not but exercise an important
influence on the future of fiction, inasmuch as it combined, or attempted to combine, with
classical unity and mediæval variety the more modern interest of manners and (sometimes) personality.
Sidney's attempt (which, it must be remembered, is not certainly known to be wholly his as
it stands, and is certainly known not to have been revised by him for publication) exercised
a very great influence in English. For its popularity was enormous, and it doubtless served
as shoehorn to draw on that of the English translations of French and Spanish romance which
supplied, during the greater part of the seventeenth century, the want of original composition
of the kind. The unconscionable amount of talk and of writing "about it and about it" which
Euphues and the minor Euphuist romances display is at least as prominent in the Arcadia: and
this talk rarely takes a form congenial to the modern novel reader's demands. Moreover, though
there really is a plot, and a sufficient amount of incident, this reader undoubtedly, and to
no small extent justly, demands that both incident and plot shall be more disengaged from their
framework--that they should be brought into higher relief, should stand out more than is the
case. Yet further, the pure character-interest is small--is almost nonexistent: and the rococo-mosaic
of manners and sentiment which was to prove the curse of the heroic romance generally prevents
much interest being felt in that direction.[1] It would also be impossible to devise a style
less suited to prose narrative, except of a very peculiar kind and on a small scale, than that
either of Euphues or of the Arcadia, which, though an uncritical tradition credits it with
driving out Lyly's, is practically only a whelp of the same litter. Embarrassed, heavy, rhetorical,
it has its place in the general evolution of English prose, and a proper and valuable place
too. But it is bad even for pure romance purposes: and nearly hopeless for the panoramic and
kaleidoscopic variety which should characterise the novel. To the actual successors of the
Arcadia in English we shall come presently.

    [1] As a work of general literature, the attraction of the
    Arcadia is of course much enhanced by, if it does not chiefly
    depend upon, its abundant, varied, and sometimes charming
    verse-insets. But, as a novel, it cannot count these.

The Unfortunate Traveller is of much less importance than the other two. It has obtained such
reputation as it possesses, partly because of its invention or improvement of the fable of
"Surrey and Geraldine"; more, and more justly, because it does work up a certain amount of
historical material--the wars of Henry VIII. in French Flanders--into something premonitory
(with a little kindness on the part of the premonished) of the great and long missed historical
novel; still more for something else. Nash, with his quick wit, seems to have been really the
first to perceive the capabilities of that foreign travel and observation of manners which
was becoming common, stripped of the special atmosphere of pilgrimage which had formerly enveloped
it. Even here, he had had the "notion of the notion" supplied to him by Lyly in Euphues: and
a tolerably skilful advocate would not have so very much difficulty in claiming the book as
one of the tribe of Euphuist pamphlets. But Jack Wilton the "traveller" is a little more of
a person than the pedagogic Euphues and the shadowy Philautus. At any rate he has a very strong
anticipation of Defoe, whose "Cavalier" was not improbably suggested by him. But Nash has neither
the patience of Defoe, nor that singular originality, which accompanies in the author of Moll
Flanders a certain inability to make the most of it. The Unfortunate Traveller is a sort of
compilation or congeries of current fabliaux, novelle, and facetiæ, with the introduction of
famous actual persons of the time, from the crowned heads of the period, through Luther and
Aretine downwards, to give bait and attraction. Sometimes it reminds one of a working up of
the Colloquies of Erasmus: three centuries earlier than The Cloister and the Hearth, with much
less genius than Charles Reade's, and still more without his illegitimate advantage of actual
novels behind him for nearly half the time. But it gives us "disjectæ membra novellæ" rather
than a novel itself: and the oftener one reads it the more clear one is that the time for writing
novels had not yet come. The materials are there; the desire to utilise--and even a faint vague
idea of how to utilise--them is there; but the art is almost completely absent. Even regarded
as an early attempt in the "picaresque" manner, it is abortive and only half organised.

The subject of the English "Heroic" Romance, in the wide sense, is one which has been very
little dealt with. Dunlop neglected it rather surprisingly, and until Professor Raleigh's chapter
on the subject there was little of a satisfactory kind to be found about it anywhere. It must,
however, be admitted that the abstainers from it have been to some extent justified in their
abstention. The subject is a curious one: and it has an important place in the history of the
Novel, because it shows at once how strong was the nisus towards prose fiction and how surprisingly
difficult writers seem, nevertheless, to have found it to hit upon anything really good, much
more anything really original in kind. For it is hardly too much to say that this century of
attempt--we cannot call it a century of invention--from Ford to Congreve, does not add a single
piece of any considerable merit to the roll of English books. As for a masterpiece, there is
nothing in respect of which the use of such a word would not be purely ridiculous. And yet
the attempts are interesting to the historian, and should not be uninteresting to the historical
student of literature. One or two of them have a sort of shadowy name and place in literary
history already.

In tracing their progress and character, we must allow for two native models: and for three
foreign sources, one ancient, two modern, of influence. The Arcadia and Euphues, the former
continuously, the latter by revival after an interval, exercised very great effect in the first
half of the seventeenth century, during at least the earlier part of which the vogue of Amadis
and its successors, as Englished by Anthony Munday and others, likewise continued. The Greek
romances also had much to do with the matter: for the Elizabethan translators had introduced
them to the vulgar, and the seventeenth century paid a good deal of attention to Greek. Then,
when that century itself was on its way, the pastoral romance of D'Urfé first, and the Calprenède-Scudéry
productions in the second place, came to give a fresh impulse, and something of a new turn.
The actual translations of French and Spanish romance, shorter and longer, good, bad, and indifferent,
are of immense bulk and doubtless excited imitation: but we cannot possibly deal with them
here. A bare list would fill a chapter. But some work of more or less (generally less) originality,
in at least adaptation, calls for a little individual notice: and some general characterisation
may be added.

It may be desirable to prelude the story by a reminder to the reader that the general characteristics
of these various sources were "harlequin" in their diversity of apparent colour. The Amadis
romances and, indeed, all the later examples of that great kind, such as Arthur of Little Britain,
which Berners translated, were distinguished on the one side by a curious convention of unsmooth
running of the course of love, on the other sometimes by a much greater licence of morality
than their predecessors, and always by a prodigality of the "conjuror's supernatural"--witches
and giants and magic black and white. The Spanish "picaresque" story was pretty real but even
less decent: and its French imitations (though not usually reaching the licence of the short
tale, which clung to fabliau ways in this respect) imitated it here also. The French heroic
romance, on the other hand, observed the most scrupulous propriety in language and situation:
but aggravated the Amadisian troubling of the course of true love, and complicated everything,
very frequently if not invariably, by an insinuated "key" interest of identification of the
ancient personages selected as heroes and heroines with modern personages of quality and distinction.

Emanuel Ford (whom the British Museum catalogue insists on spelling Forde and of whom very
little seems to be known) published Parismus, Prince of Bohemia, as early as 1598. In less
than a hundred years (1696) it had reached its fourteenth edition, and it continued to be popular
in abridged and chap-booked form[2] far into the eighteenth century. (It is sometimes called
Parismus and Parismenus: the second part being, as very commonly in romances of the class after
the Amadis pattern, occupied largely with the adventures of the son of the hero of the first.)
On the whole, Parismus, though it has few pretensions to elegance of style, and though some
delicate tastes have been shocked at certain licences of incident, description, and phrase
in it, is quite the best of our bunch in this kind. It is, in general conception, pure Amadis
of the later and slightly degraded type. Laurana, the heroine (of whom a peculiarly hideous
portrait adorns the black-letter editions side by side with Parismus himself, who is rather
a "jolly gentleman") is won with much less difficulty and in much less time than Oriana--but
separations and difficulties duly follow in "desolate isles" and the like. And though Parismus
himself is less of an Amadis than Amadis, the "contrast of friends," founded by that hero and
Galaor, is kept up by his association with a certain Pollipus--"a man of his hands" if ever
there was one, for with them he literally wrings the neck of the enchantress Bellona, who has
enticed him to embrace her. There is plenty of the book, as there always should be in its kind
(between 400 and 500 very closely printed quarto pages), and its bulk is composed of proportionately
plentiful fighting and love-making and of a very much smaller proportion of what schoolboys
irreverently call "jaw" than is usual in the class. If it were not for the black letter (which
is trying to the eyes) I should not myself object to have no other reading than Parismus for
some holiday evenings, or even after pretty tough days of literary and professional work. The
Famous History of Montelion, the Knight of the Oracle (1633?) proclaims its Amadisian type
even more clearly: but I have only read it in an abridged edition of the close of the century.
I should imagine that in extenso it was a good deal duller than Parismus. And of course the
comparative praise which has been given to that book must be subject to the reminder that it
is what it is--a romance of disorderly and what some people call childish adventure, and of
the above-ticketed "conjuror's supernatural." If anybody cannot read Amadis itself, he certainly
will not read Parismus: and perhaps not everybody who can manage the original--perhaps not
even everybody who can manage Palmerin--could put up with Ford's copy. I can take this Ford
as I find him: but I am not sure that I would go much lower.

    [2] It is pleasant to remember that one of the chief publishers
    of these things in the late seventeenth century was W.
    Thackeray.

Ornatus and Artesia (1607?), on the other hand--his second or third book--strikes me as owing
more to Heliodorus than to Montalvo, or Lobeira, or whoever was the author of the great romance
of the last chivalric type. There are more intricacies in it; the heroine plays a rather more
important part; there is even something of a nearer approach to modern novel-ways in this production,
which reappeared at "Grub Street near the Upper Pump" in the year 1650. Ornatus sees his mistress
asleep and in a kind of deshabille, employs a noble go-between, Adellena (a queer spelling
of "Adelina" which may be intentional), is rejected with apparent indignation, of course; writes
elaborate letters in vain, but overhears Artesia soliloquising confession of her love for him
and disguises himself as a girl, Silvia. Then the villain of the piece, Floretus, to obtain
the love of this supposed Silvia, murders a person of distinction and plots to poison Artesia
herself. Ornatus-Silvia is banished: and all sorts of adventures and disguises follow, entirely
in the Greek style. The book is not very long, extending only to signature R in a very small
quarto. Except that it is much less lively and considerably less "free," it reminds one rather
in type of Kynaston's verse Leoline and Sydanis. In fact the verse and prose romances of the
time are very closely connected: and Chamberlayne's Pharonnida--far the finest production of
the English "heroic" school in prose, verse, or drama--was, when the fancy for abridging set
in, condensed into a tiny prose Eromena. But Ornatus and Artesia, if more modern, more decent,
and less extravagant than Parismus, is nothing like so interesting to read. It is indeed quite
possible that there is, if not in it, in its popularity, a set-back to the Arcadia itself,
which had been directly followed in Lady Mary Wroth's Urania (1621), and to which (by the time
of the edition noted) Charles I.'s admiration--so indecently and ignobly referred to by Milton--had
given a fresh attraction for all good anti-Puritans. That an anti-Puritan should be a romance-lover
was almost a necessity.

When the French "heroics" began to appear it was only natural that they should be translated,
and scarcely less so that they should be imitated in England. For they were not far off the
Arcadia pattern: and they were a distinct and considerable effort to supply the appetite for
fiction which has been dwelt upon. But except for this, and for fashion's sake, they did not
contain much that would appeal to an English taste: and it is a little significant that one
great reader of them who is known to us--Mrs. Pepys--was a Frenchwoman. Indeed, save for the
very considerable "pastime" of a kind that they gave to a time, much of which required passing,
it is difficult to understand their attraction for English readers. Their interminable talk
never (till perhaps very recently) was a thing to suit our nation: and the "key" interest strikes
us at any rate as of the most languid kind. But they were imitated as well as translated: and
the three most famous of the imitations are the work of men of mark in their different ways.
These are the Parthenissa (1654) of Roger Boyle, Lord Broghill and Earl of Orrery; the Aretina
(1661) of Sir George Mackenzie; and the Pandion and Amphigeneia (1665) of "starch Johnny" Crowne.

Boyle was a strong Francophile in literature, and his not inconsiderable influence on the development
of the heroic play showed it only less decidedly than his imitation of the Scudéry romance.
I cannot say that I have read Parthenissa through: and I can say that I do not intend to do
so. It is enough to have read Sainte Madeleine of the Ink-Desert herself, without reading bad
imitations of her. But I have read enough to know that Parthenissa would never give me anything
like the modified satisfaction that is given by Parismus: and after all, if a man will not
take the trouble to finish writing his book (which Orrery never did) why should his readers
take the trouble even to finish reading what he has written? The scene is Parthia, with alternation
to Syria, and diversions and episodes elsewhere: and though there is a certain amount of fighting,
the staple is quite decorous but exceedingly dull love-making, conducted partly in the endless
dialogue (or rather automatic monologue) already referred to, and partly in letters more "handsome"
even than Mr. Frank Churchill's, and probably a good deal more sincere in their conventional
way, but pretty certainly less amusing. The original attraction indeed of this class of novel
consisted, and, in so far as it still exists, may be said to consist, in noble sentiment, elegantly
expressed. It deserved, and in a manner deserves, the commendatory part of Aramis's rebuke
to Porthos for expressing impatience with the compliments between Athos and D'Artagnan at their
first and hostile rencounter.[3] Otherwise there is not much to be said for it. It does not
indeed deserve Johnson's often quoted remark as to Richardson (on whom when we come to him
we shall have something more to say in connection with these heroic romances), if any one were
to read Parthenissa for the story he would not, unless he were a very impulsive person, "hang
himself." He would simply, after a number of pages varying with the individual, cease to read it.

    [3] "Quant à moi, je trouve les choses que ces messieurs se
    disent fort bien dites et tout à fait dignes de deux
    gentilhommes."

The work of the great Lord Advocate who was traduced by Covenanting malice is in a certain
sense more interesting: and that not merely because it is much shorter. Aretina or The Serious
Romance, opens with an "apology for Romances" generally, which goes far to justify Dryden's
high opinion of Mackenzie as a critic. But it cannot be said to be much--it is a little--more
interesting as a story than Parthenissa, and it is written in a most singular lingo--not displaying
the racy quaintness of Mackenzie's elder contemporary and fellow-loyalist Urquhart, but a sort
of Scotified and modernised Euphuism rather terrible to peruse. A library is "a bibliotheck
richly tapestried with books." Somebody possesses, or is compared to "a cacochymick stomach,
which transubstantiates the best of meats in its own malignant humour." And when the hero meets
a pair of cannibal ruffians he confronts one and "pulling out a pistol, sends from its barrel
two balls clothed in Death's livery, and by them opens a sallyport to his soul to fly out of
that nasty prison." A certain zest may be given by these oddities, but it hardly lasts out
more than 400 pages: and though the lives of Aretina and Philaretes are more simply and straightforwardly
told than might be thought likely--though there are ingenious disguises of contemporary politics,
and though Mackenzie was both a wise man and a wit--it is more certain than ever, when we close
his book, that this is not the way of the world, nor the man to walk in that way.

Pandion and Amphigeneia is the inferior in importance of both these books. Crowne had perhaps
rather more talent than it is usual to credit him with, but he does not show it here. I think
Sir Walter Raleigh is quite right in regarding the book as more or less traced over the Arcadia:
and it may be said to have all the defects of Sidney's scheme--which, it is fair once more
to observe, we do not possess in any form definitely settled by its author--with none of the
merits of his ornament, his execution, and his atmosphere of poetic fancy.

The fact is that this heroic romance was foredoomed to inefficiency. It was not a genuine kind
at all: but a sort of patchwork of imitations of imitations--a mule which, unlike the natural
animal, was itself bred, and bred in and in, of mules for generations back. It was true to
no time, to no country, to no system of manners, life, or thought. Its oldest ancestor in one
sense, though not in another--the Greek romance--was itself the growth of the latest and most
artificial period of the literature to which it belonged. The pure mediæval romance of chivalry
was another, but of this it had practically nothing left. The Amadis class, the late Renaissance
pastorals, the immediately preceding or accompanying French romances of the Scudéry type, were,
in increasing degree, hybrid, artificial, and dead-alive. Impotence and sterility in every
sense could but be its portion. Of the two great qualities of the novel--Variety and Life--it
had never succeeded in attaining any considerable share, and it had now the merest show of
variety and no life at all. There is hardly anything to be said in its favour, except that
its vogue, as has been observed, testified to the craving for prose fiction, and kept at least
a simulacrum of that fiction before the public. How far there may be any real, though metaphysical,
connection between the great dramatic output of this seventeenth century in England and its
small production in novel is a question not to be discussed here. But undoubtedly the fact
of the contrast is a "document in the case," and one of the most important in its own direction;
completing the testimony of the mediæval period in the other (that as romance dwindled, drama
grew) and leading up to that of the eighteenth century when drama dwindled and the novel grew.
The practice of Afra Behn in both, and the fact that Congreve, the greatest English dramatist
of the close of the century, began with a novel and deserted the style for drama, are also
interesting, and combine themselves very apparently with the considerations just glanced at.
But Congreve and Afra must be postponed for a moment.

The two last discussed books, with Eromena and some others, are posterior to the Restoration
in date, but somewhat earlier in type. The reign of Charles II., besides the "heroic" romances
and Bunyan, and one most curious little production to be noticed presently, is properly represented
in fiction by two writers, to whom, by those who like to make discoveries, considerable importance
has sometimes been assigned in the history of the English Novel. These are Richard Head and
Afra Behn, otherwise "the divine Astræa." It is, however, something of an injustice to class
them together: for Afra was a woman of very great ability, with a suspicion of genius, while
Head was at the very best a bookmaker of not quite the lowest order, though pretty near it.
Of The English Rogue (1665-1680), which earns him his place here, only the first part, and
a certain section of the fourth, are even attributed to him by Francis Kirkman, the Curll of
his generation, who published the thing at intervals and admittedly wrote parts of it himself.
It is quite openly a picaresque novel: and imitated not merely from the Spanish originals but
from Sorel's Francion, which had appeared in France some forty years before. Yet, if we compare
this latter curious book with Head's we shall see how very far behind, even with forty years'
advantage in time, was the country which, in the next century, was practically to create the
modern novel. Francion is not a work of genius: and it does not pretend to much more than the
usual picaresque farrago of adventure, unmoral and sometimes rather cruel, but comic of a kind,
strung together with little art in fable, and less in character. But the author is to some
extent "cumbered about serving." He names his characters, tries to give them some vague personality,
furnishes them with some roughly and sketchily painted scenery, and gives us not merely told
tales, but occasionally something distantly resembling conversation. Head takes no trouble
of this kind: and Kirkman does not seem to think that any such thing is required of him. Very
few of the characters of The English Rogue have so much as a name to their backs: they are
"a prentice," "a master," "a mistress," "a servant," "a daughter," "a tapster," etc. They are
invested with hardly the slightest individuality: the very hero is a scoundrel as characterless
as he is nameless:[4] he is the mere thread which keeps the beads of the story together after
a fashion. These beads themselves, moreover, are only the old anecdotes of "coney-catching,"
over-reaching, and worse, which had separately filled a thousand fabliaux, novelle, "jests,"
and so forth: and which are now flung together in gross, chiefly by the excessively clumsy
and unimaginative expedient of making the personages tell long strings of them as their own
experience. When anything more is wanted, accounts of the manners of foreign countries, taken
from "voyage-and-travel" books; of the tricks of particular trades (as here of piratical book-selling);
of anything and everything that the writer's dull fancy can think of, are foisted in. The thing
is in four volumes, and it seems that a fifth was intended as a close: but there is no particular
reason why it should not have extended to forty or fifty, nay to four or five hundred. It could
have had no real end, just as it has no real beginning or middle.

    [4] He has a name, Meriton Latroon, but it is practically
    never used in the actual story.

One other point deserves notice. The tone of the Spanish and French picaresque novel had never
been high: but it is curiously degraded in this English example. Furetière honestly called
his book Roman Bourgeois. Head might have called his, if he had written in French, Roman Canaille.
Not merely the sentiments but the very outward trappings and accidents of gentility are banished
from the book. Yet we do not get any real reality in compensation. Head is no Defoe: he can
give us the company that Colonel Jack kept in his youth and Moll Flanders in her middle age:
but he makes not the slightest attempt to give us Moll or Jack, or even Moll's or Jack's habit,
environment, novel-furniture of any kind whatsoever. The receipt to make The English Rogue
is simply this: "Take from two to three dozen Elizabethan pamphlets of different kinds, but
principally of the 'coney-catching' variety, and string them together by making a batch of
shadowy personages tell them to each other when they are not acting in them." Except in a dim
sort of idea that a novel should have some bulk and substance, it is difficult to see any advance
whatever in this muck-heap--which the present writer, having had to read it a second time for
the present purpose, most heartily hopes to be able to leave henceforth undisturbed on his shelves.

