But in none of Shakespeare's figures is his, I will not say incapacity to give, but utter indifference
to giving, his personages a typical character so strikingly manifest as in Hamlet; and in connection
with none of Shakespeare's works do we see so strikingly displayed that blind worship of Shakespeare,
that unreasoning state of hypnotism owing to which the mere thought even is not admitted that
any of Shakespeare's productions can be wanting in genius, or that any of the principal personages
in his dramas can fail to be the expression of a new and deeply conceived character.

Shakespeare takes an old story, not bad in its way, relating:

"Avec quelle ruse Amlette qui depuis fut Roy de Dannemarch, vengea la mort de son père Horwendille,
occis par Fengon son frère, et autre occurrence de son histoire," or a drama which was written
on this theme fifteen years before him. On this subject he writes his own drama, introducing
quite inappropriately (as indeed he always does) into the mouth of the principal person all
those thoughts of his own which appeared to him worthy of attention. And putting into the mouth
of his hero these thoughts: about life (the grave-digger), about death (To be or not to be)--the
same which are expressed in his sixty-sixth sonnet--about the theater, about women. He is utterly
unconcerned as to the circumstances under which these words are said, and it naturally turns
out that the person expressing all these thoughts is a mere phonograph of Shakespeare, without
character, whose actions and words do not agree.

In the old legend, Hamlet's personality is quite comprehensible: he is indignant at his mother's
and his uncle's deeds, and wishes to revenge himself upon them, but is afraid his uncle may
kill him as he had killed his father. Therefore he simulates insanity, desiring to bide his
time and observe all that goes on in the palace. Meanwhile, his uncle and mother, being afraid
of him, wish to test whether he is feigning or is really mad, and send to him a girl whom he
loves. He persists, then sees his mother in private, kills a courtier who was eavesdropping,
and convicts his mother of her sin. Afterward he is sent to England, but intercepts letters
and, returning from England, takes revenge of his enemies, burning them all.

All this is comprehensible and flows from Hamlet's character and position. But Shakespeare,
putting into Hamlet's mouth speeches which he himself wishes to express, and making him commit
actions which are necessary to the author in order to produce scenic effects, destroys all
that constitutes the character of Hamlet and of the legend. During the whole of the drama,
Hamlet is doing, not what he would really wish to do, but what is necessary for the author's
plan. One moment he is awe-struck at his father's ghost, another moment he begins to chaff
it, calling it "old mole"; one moment he loves Ophelia, another moment he teases her, and so
forth. There is no possibility of finding any explanation whatever of Hamlet's actions or words,
and therefore no possibility of attributing any character to him.

