G. A. Approbation from Sir HUBERT. (Bows and leaves quotation unfinished). But I've always
played it like that, I think.

    [Supper is announced. The Guests troop in to the
    supper-room.

Tiffington (to JARP, as they walk in). He's wrong there. Never did it like that before; and,
after all, I'm not sure it is such an improvement. But if you don't praise these fellows they
never forgive you.

Jarp. Didn't he say anything about our show at Blankbury? I thought you wrote to him about it.

Tiffington. So I did; wrote specially to tell him how well things had gone off. But you might
just as well try to pump wine out of a pillar-box, as expect a word of sympathy or encouragement
from a professional. They're all the same.

    [They take their seats, TIFFINGTON and JARP on one
    side of the table, the other three opposite them. The
    supper begins.

Friend of the G. A. (on TIFFINGTON's right). Splendid performance, was it not? I never saw
him in finer form in my life. It's quite impossible to imagine anything more dignified and
pathetic than his death-scene.

Tiffington (dubiously). Hum! Yes. I'm not sure I should do it like that quite. What do you
say, GUSHBY?

Gushby. It's not my idea at all. He spins it out far too long. I should like to see you act
that, TIFF.

Tiffington (complacently). Ah, well, so you might if things were managed with common fairness.
But (bitterly) you know well enough there's a regular conspiracy against me. (To Friend of
G. A.) Now, of course, you've read the notices of our performance of Heads or Tails? Yes. I
thought you had. Well, you must have observed, that I don't get more than two lines in any
one of them, not a word more than two lines upon my soul, and yet any fool knows that my part
was the chief one. But there you are. The beggars daren't abuse me. They know the public won't
stand that, so, just to spite me, they try to leave me out. But they're very much mistaken
if they think I care. Pooh! I snap my fingers at them and their wretched conspiracy.

    [Snaps them, and drinks moodily. The supper proceeds.
    Conversation everywhere ranges over all kinds of
    topics,--literature, art, the drama, the political
    situation, the last Divorce Case. The Amateurs continue
    to discuss themselves.

Jarp (to BOLDERO). Did you see that infamous notice in The Moonbeam? Just like that rascal
PENFOLD. He can't help showing his jealousy, because we never asked him to join the Perambulators.

Boldero. Yes. There you have it in a nutshell. I tell you what it is, we shall have to exclude
all critics from our show in future.

Tiffington. Ah! that would punish them--and serve them right, too. Are you going to sing to-night,
HALL?

Hall (with a sigh of resignation). I suppose I shall have to. I told BATTERDOWN I should be
ready, if wanted.

Jarp. Have you got anything new?

Hall. Rather. Something particularly neat, I think. I call it "The Super at Supper." It goes
like this:--

    [Hums to his friends, who listen with rapt attention,
    occasionally interchanging glances expressive of
    enthusiastic admiration.

  I once knew a Super, a festive soul,
  Who quaffed champagne from a brimming bowl,
  And all night long as he quaffed he sang,
  "The Dukes may swing, and the Earls go hang,
  And the Duchesses, 'drat 'em, may go and be blowed;
  They've all been there, and they know the road--
  They're slaves, but the Super who sups is free--
  Oh! the Super's life is the life for me!

  Chorus.

  With a hey-diddle-diddle and fiddle-di-dee,
  Oh! the supping Super's the man for me!"

Spinks, Boldero, Gushby, Jarp (with enthusiasm). My dear fellow, that's immense.

Hill. Yes, it's not bad. There are six verses, some of them even better than that.

