Florence: Uffizi, 93                                      86

    ANDREA DEL SARTO
        The Last Supper
            Florence: S. Salvi                                        88

    ANDREA DEL SARTO
        The Arrival of the Magi
            Florence: SS. Annunziata                                  90

    ANDREA DEL SARTO
        Charity
            Paris: Louvre, 1514                                       98

    ANDREA DEL SARTO
        Cæsar receiving the Tribute of Egypt
            Florence: Poggio a Caiano                                104

    ANDREA DEL SARTO
        Portrait of the Artist
            Florence: Uffizi, 280                                    112

    MADONNA PROPERZIA DE' ROSSI
        Two Angels (with The Assumption of the Virgin, after TRIBOLO)
            Bologna: S. Petronio                                     126

    ALFONSO LOMBARDI
        The Death of the Virgin
            Bologna: S. Maria della Vita                             134

    MICHELAGNOLO DA SIENA
        Tomb of Adrian VI
            Rome: S. Maria dell' Anima                               136

    GIROLAMO SANTA CROCE
        Madonna and Child, with SS. Peter and John
            Naples: Monte Oliveto                                    138

    DOSSO DOSSI
        Madonna and Child, with SS. George and Michael
            Modena: Pinacoteca, 437                                  140

    GIOVANNI ANTONIO LICINIO OF PORDENONE
        The Disputation of S. Catharine
            Piacenza: S. Maria di Campagna                           150

    GIOVANNI ANTONIO LICINIO OF PORDENONE
        The Adoration of the Magi
            Treviso: Duomo                                           152

    GIOVANNI ANTONIO SOGLIANI
        The Legend of S. Dominic
            Florence: S. Marco                                       162

    IL ROSSO
        Madonna and Child, with Saints
            Florence: Uffizi, 47                                     190

    IL ROSSO
        The Transfiguration
            Città di Castello: Duomo                                 198

    BARTOLOMMEO DA BAGNACAVALLO
        The Holy Family, with Saints
            Bologna: Accademia, 133                                  208

    AMICO OF BOLOGNA (AMICO ASPERTINI)
        The Adoration
            Bologna: Pinacoteca, 297                                 210

    INNOCENZIO DA IMOLA
        The Marriage of S. Catharine
            Bologna: S. Giacomo Maggiore                             214

    FRANCIABIGIO (FRANCIA)
        The Marriage of the Virgin
            Florence: SS. Annunziata                                 218

    FRANCESCO MAZZUOLI (PARMIGIANO)
        The Marriage of S. Catharine
            Parma: Gallery, 192                                      246

    FRANCESCO MAZZUOLI (PARMIGIANO)
        Madonna and Child, with Saints
            Bologna: Accademia, 116                                  250

    JACOPO PALMA (PALMA VECCHIO)
        S. Sebastian
            Venice: S. Maria Formosa                                 260

    LORENZO LOTTO
        The Glorification of S. Nicholas
            Venice: S. Maria del Carmine                             262

    LORENZO LOTTO
        Andrea Odoni
            Hampton Court Palace                                     262

    RONDINELLO (NICCOLÒ RONDINELLI)
        Madonna and Child, with Saints
            Ravenna: Accademia                                       264

    FRANCESCO DA COTIGNOLA
        The Adoration of the Shepherds
            Ravenna: Accademia                                       266

CORRIGENDUM

P. 151, l. 13, Vicenza is an error of the Italian text for Piacenza, the church referred to
being in the latter town

ANDREA DA FIESOLE

LIVES OF ANDREA DA FIESOLE

[ANDREA FERRUCCI]

SCULPTOR

AND OF OTHER CRAFTSMEN OF FIESOLE

Seeing that it is no less necessary for sculptors to have mastery over their carving-tools
than it is for him who practises painting to be able to handle colours, it therefore happens
that many who work very well in clay prove to be unable to carry their labours to any sort
of perfection in marble; and some, on the contrary, work very well in marble, without having
any more knowledge of design than a certain instinct for a good manner, I know not what, that
they have in their minds, derived from the imitation of certain things which please their judgment,
and which their imagination absorbs and proceeds to use for its own purposes. And it is almost
a marvel to see the manner in which some sculptors, without in any way knowing how to draw
on paper, nevertheless bring their works to a fine and praiseworthy completion with their chisels.
This was seen in Andrea, a sculptor of Fiesole, the son of Piero di Marco Ferrucci, who learnt
the rudiments of sculpture in his earliest boyhood from Francesco di Simone Ferrucci, another
sculptor of Fiesole. And although at the beginning he learnt only to carve foliage, yet little
by little he became so well practised in his work that it was not long before he set himself
to making figures; insomuch that, having a swift and resolute hand, he executed his works in
marble rather with a certain judgment and skill derived from nature than with any knowledge
of design. Nevertheless, he afterwards gave a little more attention to art, when, in the flower
of his youth, he followed Michele Maini, likewise a sculptor of Fiesole; which Michele made
the S. Sebastian of marble in the Minerva at Rome, which was so much praised in those days.

Andrea, then, having been summoned to work at Imola, built a chapel of grey-stone, which was
much extolled, in the Innocenti in that city. After that work, he went to Naples at the invitation
of Antonio di Giorgio of Settignano, a very eminent engineer, and architect to King Ferrante,
with whom Antonio was in such credit, that he had charge not only of all the buildings in that
kingdom, but also of all the most important affairs of State. On arriving in Naples, Andrea
was set to work, and he executed many things for that King in the Castello di San Martino and
in other parts of that city. Now Antonio died; and after the King had caused him to be buried
with obsequies suited rather to a royal person than to an architect, and with twenty pairs
of mourners following him to the grave, Andrea, recognizing that this was no country for him,
departed from Naples and made his way back to Rome, where he stayed for some time, attending
to the studies of his art, and also to some work.

Afterwards, having returned to Tuscany, he built the marble chapel containing the baptismal
font in the Church of S. Jacopo at Pistoia, and with much diligence executed the basin of that
font, with all its ornamentation. And on the main wall of the chapel he made two lifesize figures
in half-relief--namely, S. John baptizing Christ, a work executed very well and with a beautiful
manner. At the same time he made some other little works, of which there is no need to make
mention. I must say, indeed, that although these things were wrought by Andrea rather with
the skill of his hand than with art, yet there may be perceived in them a boldness and an excellence
of taste worthy of great praise. And, in truth, if such craftsmen had a thorough knowledge
of design united to their practised skill and judgment, they would vanquish in excellence those
who, drawing perfectly, only hack the marble when they set themselves to work it, and toil
at it painfully with a sorry result, through not having practice and not knowing how to handle
the tools with the skill that is necessary.

After these works, Andrea executed a marble panel that was placed exactly between the two flights
of steps that ascend to the upper choir in the Church of the Vescovado at Fiesole; in which
panel he made three figures in the round and some scenes in low-relief. And for S. Girolamo,
at Fiesole, he made the little marble panel that is built into the middle of the church. Having
come into repute by reason of the fame of these works, Andrea was commissioned by the Wardens
of Works of S. Maria del Fiore, at the time when Cardinal Giulio de' Medici was governing Florence,
to make a statue of an Apostle four braccia in height; at that time, I mean, when four other
similar statues were allotted at one and the same moment to four other masters--one to Benedetto
da Maiano, another to Jacopo Sansovino, a third to Baccio Bandinelli, and the fourth to Michelagnolo
Buonarroti; which statues were eventually to be twelve in number, and were to be placed in
that part of that magnificent temple where there are the Apostles painted by the hand of Lorenzo
di Bicci. Andrea, then, executed his rather with fine skill and judgment than with design;
and he acquired thereby, if not as much praise as the others, at least the name of a good and
practised master. Wherefore he was almost continually employed ever afterwards by the Wardens
of Works of that church; and he made the head of Marsilius Ficinus that is to be seen therein,
within the door that leads to the chapter-house. He made, also, a marble fountain that was
sent to the King of Hungary, which brought him great honour; and by his hand was a marble tomb
that was sent, likewise, to Strigonia, a city of Hungary. In this tomb was a Madonna, very
well executed, with other figures; and in it was afterwards laid to rest the body of the Cardinal
of Strigonia. To Volterra Andrea sent two Angels of marble in the round; and for Marco del
Nero, a Florentine, he made a lifesize Crucifix of wood, which is now in the Church of S. Felicita
at Florence. He made a smaller one for the Company of the Assumption in Fiesole. Andrea also
delighted in architecture, and he was the master of Mangone, the stonecutter and architect,
who afterwards erected many palaces and other buildings in Rome in a passing good manner.

In the end, having grown old, Andrea gave his attention only to mason's work, like one who,
being a modest and worthy person, loved a quiet life more than anything else. He received from
Madonna Antonia Vespucci the commission for a tomb for her husband, Messer Antonio Strozzi;
but since he could not work much himself, the two Angels were made for him by Maso Boscoli
of Fiesole, his disciple, who afterwards executed many works in Rome and elsewhere, and the
Madonna was made by Silvio Cosini of Fiesole, although it was not set into place immediately
after it was finished, which was in the year 1522, because Andrea died, and was buried by the
Company of the Scalzo in the Church of the Servi.

. Pistoia: Duomo)

Brogi]

Silvio, when the said Madonna was set into place and the tomb of the Strozzi completely finished,
pursued the art of sculpture with extraordinary zeal; wherefore he afterwards executed many
works in a graceful and beautiful manner, and surpassed a host of other masters, above all
in the bizarre fancy of his grotesques, as may be seen in the sacristy of Michelagnolo Buonarroti,
from some carved marble capitals over the pilasters of the tombs, with some little masks so
well hollowed out that there is nothing better to be seen. In the same place he made some friezes
with very beautiful masks in the act of crying out; wherefore Buonarroti, seeing the genius
and skill of Silvio, caused him to begin certain trophies to complete those tombs, but they
remained unfinished, with other things, by reason of the siege of Florence. Silvio executed
a tomb for the Minerbetti in their chapel in the tramezzo[1] of the Church of S. Maria Novella,
as well as any man could, since, in addition to the beautiful shape of the sarcophagus, there
are carved upon it various shields, helmet-crests, and other fanciful things, and all with
as much design as could be desired in such a work. Being at Pisa in the year 1528, Silvio made
there an Angel that was wanting over a column on the high-altar of the Duomo, to face the one
by Tribolo; and he made it so like the other that it could not be more like even if it were
by the same hand. In the Church of Monte Nero, near Livorno, he made a little panel of marble
with two figures, for the Frati Ingesuati; and at Volterra he made a tomb for Messer Raffaello
da Volterra, a man of great learning, wherein he portrayed him from nature on a sarcophagus
of marble, with some ornaments and figures. Afterwards, while the siege of Florence was going
on, Niccolò Capponi, a most honourable citizen, died at Castel Nuovo della Garfagnana on his
return from Genoa, where he had been as Ambassador from his Republic to the Emperor; and Silvio
was sent in great haste to make a cast of his head, to the end that he might afterwards make
one in marble, having already executed a very beautiful one in wax.

Now Silvio lived for some time with all his family in Pisa; and since he belonged to the Company
of the Misericordia, which in that city accompanies those condemned to death to the place of
execution, there once came into his head, being sacristan at that time, the strangest caprice
in the world. One night he took out of the grave the body of one who had been hanged the day
before; and, after having dissected it for the purposes of his art, being a whimsical fellow,
and perhaps a wizard, and ready to believe in enchantments and suchlike follies, he flayed
it completely, and with the skin, prepared after a method that he had been taught, he made
a jerkin, which he wore for some time over his shirt, believing that it had some great virtue,
without anyone ever knowing of it. But having once been upbraided by a good Father to whom
he had confessed the matter, he pulled off the jerkin and laid it to rest in a grave, as the
monk had urged him to do. Many other similar stories could be told of this man, but, since
they have nothing to do with our history, I will pass them over in silence.

After the death of his first wife in Pisa, Silvio went off to Carrara. There he remained to
execute some works, and took another wife, with whom, no long time after, he went to Genoa,
where, entering the service of Prince Doria, he made a most beautiful escutcheon of marble
over the door of his palace, and many ornaments in stucco all over that palace, after the directions
given to him by the painter Perino del Vaga. He made, also, a very beautiful portrait in marble
of the Emperor Charles V. But since it was Silvio's habit never to stay long in one place--for
he was a wayward person--he grew weary of his prosperity in Genoa, and set out to make his
way to France. He departed, therefore, but before arriving at Monsanese he turned back, and,
stopping at Milan, he executed in the Duomo some scenes and figures and many ornaments, with
much credit for himself. And there, finally, he died at the age of forty-five. He was a man
of fine genius, capricious, very dexterous in any kind of work, and a person who could execute
with great diligence anything to which he turned his hand. He delighted in composing sonnets
and improvising songs, and in his early youth he gave his attention to arms. If he had concentrated
his mind on sculpture and design, he would have had no equal; and, even as he surpassed his
master Andrea Ferrucci, so, had he lived, he would have surpassed many others who have enjoyed
the name of excellent masters.

There flourished at the same time as Andrea and Silvio another sculptor of Fiesole, called
Il Cicilia, who was a person of much skill; and a work by his hand may be seen in the Church
of S. Jacopo, in the Campo Corbolini at Florence--namely, the tomb of the Chevalier Messer
Luigi Tornabuoni, which is much extolled, particularly because he made therein the escutcheon
of that Chevalier, in the form of a horse's head, as if to show, according to the ancient belief,
that the shape of shields was originally taken from the head of a horse.

About the same time, also, Antonio da Carrara, a very rare sculptor, made three statues in
Palermo for the Duke of Monteleone, a Neapolitan of the house of Pignatella, and Viceroy of
Sicily--namely, three figures of Our Lady in different attitudes and manners, which were placed
over three altars in the Duomo of Monteleone in Calabria. For the same patron he made some
scenes in marble, which are in Palermo. He left behind him a son who is also a sculptor at
the present day, and no less excellent than was his father.

. Volterra: S. Lino)

Alinari]

FOOTNOTE:

[1] See note on p. 57, Vol. I.

VINCENZIO DA SAN GIMIGNANO AND TIMOTEO DA URBINO

LIVES OF VINCENZIO DA SAN GIMIGNANO AND TIMOTEO DA URBINO

[TIMOTEO DELLA VITE]

PAINTERS

Having now to write, after the Life of the sculptor Andrea da Fiesole, the Lives of two excellent
painters, Vincenzio da San Gimignano of Tuscany, and Timoteo da Urbino, I propose to speak
first of Vincenzio, as the man whose portrait is above,[2] and immediately afterwards of Timoteo,
since they lived almost at one and the same time, and were both disciples and friends of Raffaello.

Vincenzio, then, working in company with many others in the Papal Loggie for the gracious Raffaello
da Urbino, acquitted himself in such a manner that he was much extolled by Raffaello and by
all the others. Having therefore been set to work in the Borgo, opposite to the Palace of Messer
Giovanni Battista dall' Aquila, with great credit to himself he painted on a façade a frieze
in terretta, in which he depicted the Nine Muses, with Apollo in the centre, and above them
some lions, the device of the Pope, which are held to be very beautiful. Vincenzio showed great
diligence in his manner and softness in his colouring, and his figures were very pleasing in
aspect; in short, he always strove to imitate the manner of Raffaello da Urbino, as may also
be seen in the same Borgo, opposite to the Palace of the Cardinal of Ancona, from the façade
of a house that was built by Messer Giovanni Antonio Battiferro of Urbino, who, in consequence
of the strait friendship that he had with Raffaello, received from him the design for that
façade, and also, through his good offices, many benefits and rich revenues at the Court. In
this design, then, which was afterwards carried into execution by Vincenzio, Raffaello drew,
in allusion to the name of the Battiferri, the Cyclopes forging thunderbolts for Jove, and
in another part Vulcan making arrows for Cupid, with some most beautiful nudes and other very
lovely scenes and statues. The same Vincenzio painted a great number of scenes on a façade
in the Piazza di S. Luigi de' Francesi at Rome, such as the Death of Cæsar, a Triumph of Justice,
and a battle of horsemen in a frieze, executed with spirit and much diligence; and in this
work, close to the roof, between the windows, he painted some Virtues that are very well wrought.
In like manner, on the façade of the Epifani, behind the Curia di Pompeo, and near the Campo
di Fiore, he painted the Magi following the Star; with an endless number of other works throughout
that city, the air and position of which seem to be in great measure the reason that men are
inspired to produce marvellous works there. Experience teaches us, indeed, that very often
the same man has not the same manner and does not produce work of equal excellence in every
place, but makes it better or worse according to the nature of the place.

=. San Gimignano: S. Agostino)

Brogi]

Vincenzio being in very good repute in Rome, there took place in the year 1527 the ruin and
sack of that unhappy city, which had been the mistress of the nations. Whereupon, grieved beyond
measure, he returned to his native city of San Gimignano; and there, by reason of the sufferings
that he had undergone, and the weakening of his love for art, now that he was away from the
air which nourishes men of fine genius and makes them bring forth works of the rarest merit,
he painted some things that I will pass over in silence, in order not to veil with them the
renown and the great name that he had honourably acquired in Rome. It is enough to point out
clearly that violence turns the most lofty intellects roughly aside from their chief goal,
and makes them direct their steps into the opposite path; which may also be seen in a companion
of Vincenzio, called Schizzone, who executed some works in the Borgo that were highly extolled,
and also in the Campo Santo of Rome and in S. Stefano degl' Indiani, and who was likewise caused
by the senseless soldiery to turn aside from art and in a short time to lose his life. Vincenzio
died in his native city of San Gimignano, having had but little gladness in his life after
his departure from Rome.

=. Milan: Brera, 508)

Brogi]

Timoteo, a painter of Urbino, was the son of Bartolommeo della Vite, a citizen of good position,
and Calliope, the daughter of Maestro Antonio Alberto of Ferrara, a passing good painter in
his day, as is shown by his works at Urbino and elsewhere. While Timoteo was still a child,
his father dying, he was left to the care of his mother Calliope, with good and happy augury,
from the circumstance that Calliope is one of the Nine Muses, and the conformity that exists
between poetry and painting. Then, after he had been brought discreetly through his boyhood
by his wise mother, and initiated by her into the studies of the simpler arts and likewise
of drawing, the young man came into his first knowledge of the world at the very time when
the divine Raffaello Sanzio was flourishing. Applying himself in his earliest years to the
goldsmith's art, he was summoned by Messer Pier Antonio, his elder brother, who was then studying
at Bologna, to that most noble city, to the end that he might follow that art, to which he
seemed to be inclined by nature, under the discipline of some good master. While living, then,
in Bologna, in which city he stayed no little time, and was much honoured and received by the
noble and magnificent Messer Francesco Gombruti into his house with every sort of courtesy,
Timoteo associated continually with men of culture and lofty intellect. Wherefore, having become
known in a few months as a young man of judgment, and inclined much more to the painter's than
to the goldsmith's art, of which he had given proofs in some very well-executed portraits of
his friends and of others, it seemed good to his brother, wishing to encourage the young man's
natural genius, and also persuaded to this by his friends, to take him away from his files
and chisels, and to make him devote himself entirely to the study of drawing. At which he was
very content, and applied himself straightway to drawing and to the labours of art, copying
and drawing all the best works in that city; and establishing a close intimacy with painters,
he set out to such purpose on his new road, that it was a marvel to see the progress that he
made from one day to another, and all the more because he learnt with facility the most difficult
things without any particular teaching from any appointed master. And so, becoming enamoured
of his profession, and learning many secrets of painting merely by sometimes seeing certain
painters of no account making their mixtures and using their brushes, and guided by himself
and by the hand of nature, he set himself boldly to colouring, and acquired a very pleasing
manner, very similar to that of the new Apelles, his compatriot, although he had seen nothing
by his hand save a few works at Bologna. Thereupon, after executing some works on panel and
on walls with very good results, guided by his own good intellect and judgment, and believing
that in comparison with other painters he had succeeded very well in everything, he pursued
the studies of painting with great ardour, and to such purpose, that in course of time he found
that he had gained a firm footing in his art, and was held in good repute and vast expectation
by all the world.

Having then returned to his own country, now a man twenty-six years of age, he stayed there
for some months, giving excellent proofs of his knowledge. Thus he executed, to begin with,
the altar-piece of the Madonna for the altar of S. Croce in the Duomo, containing, besides
the Virgin, S. Crescenzio and S. Vitale; and there is a little Angel seated on the ground,
playing on a viola with a grace truly angelic and a childlike simplicity expressed with art
and judgment. Afterwards he painted another altar-piece for the high-altar of the Church of
the Trinità, together with a S. Apollonia on the left hand of that altar.

By means of these works and certain others, of which there is no need to make mention, the
name and fame of Timoteo spread abroad, and he was invited with great insistence by Raffaello
to Rome; whither having gone with the greatest willingness, he was received with that loving
kindness that was as peculiar to Raffaello as was his excellence in art. Working, then, with
Raffaello, in little more than a year he made a great advance, not only in art, but also in
prosperity, for in that time he sent home a good sum of money. While working with his master
in the Church of S. Maria della Pace, he made with his own hand and invention the Sibyls that
are in the lunettes on the right hand, so much esteemed by all painters. That they are his
is maintained by some who still remember having seen them painted; and we have also testimony
in the cartoons which are still to be found in the possession of his successors. On his own
account, likewise, he afterwards painted the bier and the dead body contained therein, with
the other things, so highly extolled, that are around it, in the Scuola of S. Caterina da Siena;
and although certain men of Siena, carried away by love of their own country, attribute these
works to others, it may easily be recognized that they are the handiwork of Timoteo, both from
the grace and sweetness of the colouring, and from other memorials of himself that he left
in that most noble school of excellent painters.

Now, although Timoteo was well and honourably placed in Rome, yet, not being able to endure,
as many do, the separation from his own country, and also being invited and urged every moment
to come home by the counsels of his friends and by the prayers of his mother, now an old woman,
he returned to Urbino, much to the displeasure of Raffaello, who loved him dearly for his good
qualities. And not long after, having taken a wife in Urbino at the suggestion of his family,
and having become enamoured of his country, in which he saw that he was highly honoured, besides
the circumstance, even more important, that he had begun to have children, Timoteo made up
his mind firmly never again to consent to go abroad, notwithstanding, as may still be seen
from some letters, that he was invited back to Rome by Raffaello. But he did not therefore
cease to work, and he made many works in Urbino and in the neighbouring cities. At Forlì he
painted a chapel in company with Girolamo Genga, his friend and compatriot; and afterwards
he painted entirely with his own hand a panel that was sent to Città di Castello, and likewise
another for the people of Cagli. At Castel Durante, also, he executed some works in fresco,
which are truly worthy of praise, as are all the other works by his hand, which bear witness
that he was a graceful painter in figures, landscapes, and every other field of painting. In
Urbino, at the instance of Bishop Arrivabene of Mantua, he painted the Chapel of S. Martino
in the Duomo, in company with the same Genga; but the altar-panel and the middle of the chapel
are entirely by the hand of Timoteo. For the same church, also, he painted a Magdalene standing,
clothed in a short mantle, and covered below this by her own tresses, which reach to the ground
and are so beautiful and natural, that the wind appears to move them; not to mention the divine
beauty of the expression of her countenance, which reveals clearly the love that she bore to
her Master.

In S. Agata there is another panel by the hand of the same man, with some very good figures.
And for S. Bernardino, without that city, he made that work so greatly renowned that is at
the right hand upon the altar of the Buonaventuri, gentlemen of Urbino; wherein the Virgin
is represented with most beautiful grace as having received the Annunciation, standing with
her hands clasped and her face and eyes uplifted to Heaven. Above, in the sky, in the centre
of a great circle of light, stands a little Child, with His foot on the Holy Spirit in the
form of a Dove, and holding in His left hand a globe symbolizing the dominion of the world,
while, with the other hand raised, He gives the benediction; and on the right of the Child
is an angel, who is pointing Him out with his finger to the Madonna. Below--that is, on the
level of the Madonna, to her right--is the Baptist, clothed in a camel's skin, which is torn
on purpose that the nude figure may be seen; and on her left is a S. Sebastian, wholly naked,
and bound in a beautiful attitude to a tree, and wrought with such diligence that the figure
could not have stronger relief nor be in any part more beautiful.

At the Court of the most illustrious Dukes of Urbino, in a little private study, may be seen
an Apollo and two half-nude Muses by his hand, beautiful to a marvel. For the same patrons
he executed many pictures, and made some decorations for apartments, which are very beautiful.
And afterwards, in company with Genga, he painted some caparisons for horses, which were sent
to the King of France, with such beautiful figures of various animals that they appeared to
all who beheld them to have life and movement. He made, also, some triumphal arches similar
to those of the ancients, on the occasion of the marriage of the most illustrious Duchess Leonora
to the Lord Duke Francesco Maria, to whom they gave vast satisfaction, as they did to the whole
Court; on which account he was received for many years into the household of that Duke, with
an honourable salary.

=. Bologna: Accademia, 204)

Anderson]

Timoteo was a bold draughtsman, and even more notable for the sweetness and charm of his colouring,
insomuch that his works could not have been executed with more delicacy or greater diligence.
He was a merry fellow, gay and festive by nature, and most acute and witty in his sayings and
discourses. He delighted in playing every sort of instrument, and particularly the lyre, to
which he sang, improvising upon it with extraordinary grace. He died in the year of our salvation
1524, the fifty-fourth of his life, leaving his native country as much enriched by his name
and his fine qualities as it was grieved by his loss. He left in Urbino some unfinished works,
which were finished afterwards by others and show by comparison how great were the worth and
ability of Timoteo.

In our book are some drawings by his hand, very beautiful and truly worthy of praise, which
I received from the most excellent and gentle Messer Giovanni Maria, his son--namely, a pen-sketch
for the portrait of the Magnificent Giuliano de' Medici, which Timoteo made when Giuliano was
frequenting the Court of Urbino and that most famous academy, a "Noli me tangere," and a S.
John the Evangelist sleeping while Christ is praying in the Garden, all very beautiful.

FOOTNOTE:

[2] In the original edition of 1568.

ANDREA DAL MONTE SANSOVINO

LIFE OF ANDREA DAL MONTE SANSOVINO

[ANDREA CONTUCCI]

SCULPTOR AND ARCHITECT

Although Andrea, the son of Domenico Contucci of Monte Sansovino, was born from a poor father,
a tiller of the earth, and rose from the condition of shepherd, nevertheless his conceptions
were so lofty, his genius so rare, and his mind so ready, both in his works and in his discourses
on the difficulties of architecture and perspective, that there was not in his day a better,
rarer, or more subtle intellect than his, nor one that was more able than he was to render
the greatest doubts clear and lucid; wherefore he well deserved to be held in his own times,
by all who were qualified to judge, to be supreme in those professions. Andrea was born, so
it is said, in the year 1460; and in his childhood, while looking after his flocks, he would
draw on the sand the livelong day, as is also told of Giotto, and copy in clay some of the
animals that he was guarding. So one day it happened that a Florentine citizen, who is said
to have been Simone Vespucci, at that time Podestà of the Monte, passing by the place where
Andrea was looking after his little charges, saw the boy standing all intent on drawing or
modelling in clay. Whereupon he called to him, and, having seen what was the boy's bent, and
heard whose son he was, he asked for him from Domenico Contucci, who graciously granted his
request; and Simone promised to place him in the way of learning design, in order to see what
virtue there might be in that inclination of nature, if assisted by continual study.

Having returned to Florence, then, Simone placed him to learn art with Antonio del Pollaiuolo,
under whom Andrea made such proficience, that in a few years he became a very good master.
In the house of that Simone, on the Ponte Vecchio, there may still be seen a cartoon executed
by him at that time, of Christ being scourged at the Column, drawn with much diligence; and,
in addition, two marvellous heads in terra-cotta, copied from ancient medals, one of the Emperor
Nero, and the other of the Emperor Galba, which heads served to adorn a chimney-piece; but
the Galba is now at Arezzo, in the house of Giorgio Vasari. Afterwards, while still living
in Florence, he made an altar-piece in terra-cotta for the Church of S. Agata at Monte Sansovino,
with a S. Laurence and some other saints, and little scenes most beautifully executed. And
no long time after this he made another like it, containing a very beautiful Assumption of
Our Lady, S. Agata, S. Lucia, and S. Romualdo; which altar-piece was afterwards glazed by the
Della Robbia family.

. Florence: S. Spirito)

Alinari]

Then, pursuing the art of sculpture, he made in his youth for Simone del Pollaiuolo, otherwise
called Il Cronaca, two capitals for pilasters in the Sacristy of S. Spirito, which brought
him very great fame, and led to his receiving a commission to execute the antechamber that
is between the said sacristy and the church; and since the space was very small, Andrea was
forced to use great ingenuity. He made, therefore, a structure of grey-stone in the Corinthian
Order, with twelve round columns, six on either side; and having laid architrave, frieze, and
cornice over these columns, he then raised a barrel-shaped vault, all of the same stone, with
a coffer-work surface full of carvings, which was something novel, rich and varied, and much
extolled. It is true, indeed, that if the mouldings of that coffer-work ceiling, which serve
to divide the square and round panels by which it is adorned, had been contrived so as to fall
in a straight line with the columns, with truer proportion and harmony, this work would be
wholly perfect in every part; and it would have been an easy thing to do this. But, according
to what I once heard from certain old friends of Andrea, he used to defend himself by saying
that he had adhered in his vault to the method of the coffering in the Ritonda at Rome, wherein
the ribs that radiate from the round window in the centre above, from which that temple gets
its light, serve to enclose the square sunk panels containing the rosettes, which diminish
little by little, as likewise do the ribs; and for that reason they do not fall in a straight
line with the columns. Andrea used to add that if he who built the Temple of the Ritonda, which
is the best designed and proportioned that there is, and made with more harmony than any other,
paid no attention to this in a vault of such size and importance, much less should he do so
in a coffered ceiling with far smaller panels. Nevertheless many craftsmen, and Michelagnolo
in particular, have been of the opinion that the Ritonda was built by three architects, of
whom the first carried it as far as the cornice that is above the columns, and the second from
the cornice upwards, the part, namely, that contains those windows of more graceful workmanship,
for in truth this second part is very different in manner from the part below, since the vaulting
was carried out without any relation between the coffering and the straight lines of what is
below. The third is believed to have made the portico, which was a very rare work. And for
these reasons the masters who practise this art at the present day should not fall into such
an error and then make excuses, as did Andrea.

After that work, having received from the family of the Corbinelli the commission for the Chapel
of the Sacrament in the same church, he carried it out with much diligence, imitating in the
low-reliefs Donato and other excellent craftsmen, and sparing no labour in his desire to do
himself credit, as, indeed, he did. In two niches, one on either side of a very beautiful tabernacle,
he placed two saints somewhat more than one braccio in height, S. James and S. Matthew, executed
with such spirit and excellence, that every sort of merit is revealed in them and not one fault.
Equally good, also, are two Angels in the round that are the crowning glory of this work, with
the most beautiful draperies--for they are in the act of flying--that are anywhere to be seen;
and in the centre is a little naked Christ full of grace. There are also some scenes with little
figures in the predella and over the tabernacle, all so well executed that the point of a brush
could scarcely do what Andrea did with his chisel. But whosoever wishes to be amazed by the
diligence of this extraordinary man should look at the architecture of this work as a whole,
for it is so well executed and joined together in its small proportions that it appears to
have been chiselled out of one single stone. Much extolled, also, is a large Pietà of marble
that he made in half-relief on the front of the altar, with the Madonna and S. John weeping.
Nor could one imagine any more beautiful pieces of casting than are the bronze gratings that
enclose that chapel, with their ornaments of marble, and with stags, the device, or rather
the arms, of the Corbinelli, which serve as adornments for the bronze candelabra. In short,
this work was executed without any sparing of labour, and with all the best considerations
that could possibly be imagined.

By these and by other works the name of Andrea spread far and wide, and he was sought for from
the elder Lorenzo de' Medici, the Magnificent, in whose garden, as has been related, he had
pursued the studies of design, by the King of Portugal; and, being therefore sent to him by
Lorenzo, he executed for that King many works of sculpture and of architecture, and in particular
a very beautiful palace with four towers, and many other buildings. Part of the palace was
painted after designs and cartoons by the hand of Andrea, who drew very well, as may be seen
from some drawings by his own hand in our book, finished with a charcoal-point, and some other
architectural drawings, showing excellent design. He also made for that King a carved altar
of wood, containing some Prophets; and likewise a very beautiful battle-piece in clay, to be
afterwards carved in marble, representing the wars that the King waged with the Moors, who
were vanquished by him; and no work by the hand of Andrea was ever seen that was more spirited
or more terrible than this, what with the movements and various attitudes of the horses, the
heaps of dead, and the vehement fury of the soldiers in combat. And he made a figure of S.
Mark in marble, which was a very rare work. While in the service of that King, Andrea also
gave his attention to some difficult and fantastic architectural works, according to the custom
of that country, in order to please the King; of which things I once saw a book at Monte Sansovino
in the possession of his heirs, which is now in the hands of Maestro Girolamo Lombardo, who
was his disciple, and to whom it fell, as will be related, to finish some works begun by Andrea.

. Rome: S. Maria del Popolo)

Alinari]

Having been nine years in Portugal, and growing weary of that service, and desirous of seeing
his relatives and friends in Tuscany again, Andrea determined, now that he had put together
a good sum of money, to obtain leave from the King and return home. And so, having been granted
permission, although not willingly, he returned to Florence, leaving behind him one who should
complete such of his works as remained unfinished. After arriving in Florence, he began in
the year 1500 a marble group of S. John baptizing Christ, which was to be placed over that
door of the Temple of S. Giovanni that faces the Misericordia; but he did not finish it, because
he was almost forced to go to Genoa, where he made two figures of marble, Christ, or rather
S. John, and a Madonna, which are truly worthy of the highest praise. And those at Florence
remained unfinished, and are still to be found at the present day in the Office of Works of
the said S. Giovanni.

He was then summoned to Rome by Pope Julius II, and received the commission for two tombs of
marble, which were erected in S. Maria del Popolo--one for Cardinal Ascanio Sforza, and the
other for the Cardinal of Recanati, a very near relative of the Pope--and these works were
wrought so perfectly by Andrea that nothing more could be desired, since they were so well
executed and finished, and with such purity, beauty, and grace, that they reveal the true consideration
and proportion of art. There may be seen there, also, a Temperance with an hourglass in her
hand, which is held to be a thing divine; and, indeed, it does not appear to be a modern work,
but ancient and wholly perfect. And although there are other figures there similar to it, yet
on account of its attitude and grace it is much the best; not to mention that nothing could
be more pleasing and beautiful than the veil that she has around her, which is executed with
such delicacy that it is a miracle to behold.

In S. Agostino at Rome, on a pilaster in the middle of the church, he made in marble a S. Anne
embracing a Madonna with the Child, a little less than lifesize. This work may be counted as
one of the best of modern times, since, even as a lively and wholly natural gladness is seen
in the old woman, and a divine beauty in the Madonna, so the figure of the Infant Christ is
so well wrought, that no other was ever executed with such delicacy and perfection. Wherefore
it well deserved that for many years a succession of sonnets and various other learned compositions
should be attached to it, of which the friars of that place have a book full, which I myself
have seen, to my no little marvel. And in truth the world was right in doing this, for the
reason that the work can never be praised enough.

. Rome: S. Agostino)

Alinari]

The fame of Andrea having thereby grown greater, Leo X, who had resolved that the adornment
with wrought marble of the Chamber of the Madonna in S. Maria at Loreto should be carried out,
according to the beginning made by Bramante, ordained that Andrea should bring that work to
completion. The ornamentation of that Chamber, which Bramante had begun, had at the corners
four double projections, which, adorned by pillars with bases and carved capitals, rested on
a socle rich with carvings, and two braccia and a half in height; over which socle, between
the two aforesaid pillars, he had made a large niche to contain seated figures, and, above
each of these niches, a smaller one, which, reaching to the collarino of the capitals of those
pillars, left a frieze of the same height as the capitals. Above these were afterwards laid
architrave, frieze, and richly carved cornice, which, going right round all the four walls,
project over the four corners; and in the middle of each of the larger walls--for the Chamber
is greater in length than in breadth--were left two spaces, since there was the same projection
in the centre of those walls as there was at the corners; whence the larger niche below, with
the smaller one above it, came to be enclosed by a space of five braccia on either side. In
this space were two doors, one on either side, through which one entered into the chapel; and
above the doors was a space of five braccia between one niche and another, wherein were to
be carved scenes in marble. The front wall was the same, but without niches in the centre,
and the height of the socle, with the projection, formed an altar, which was set off by the
pillars and the niches at the corners. In the same front wall, in the centre, was a space of
the same breadth as the spaces at the sides, to contain some scenes in the upper part, while
below, the same in height as the spaces of the sides, but beginning immediately above the altar,
was a bronze grating opposite to the inner altar, through which it was possible to hear the
Mass and to see the inside of the Chamber and the aforesaid altar of the Madonna. Altogether,
then, the spaces and compartments for the scenes were seven: one in front, above the grating,
two on each of the longer sides, and two on the upper part--that is to say, behind the altar
of the Madonna; and, in addition, there were eight large and eight small niches, with other
smaller spaces for the arms and devices of the Pope and of the Church.

Andrea, then, having found the work in this condition, distributed over these spaces, with
a rich and beautiful arrangement, scenes from the life of the Madonna. In one of the two side-walls,
he began in one part the Nativity of the Madonna, and executed half of it; and it was completely
finished afterwards by Baccio Bandinelli. In the other part he began the Marriage of the Virgin,
but this also remained unfinished, and after the death of Andrea it was completed as we see
it by Raffaello da Montelupo. On the front wall he arranged that there should be made, in two
small squares which are on either side of the bronze grating, in one the Visitation and in
the other the scene of the Virgin and Joseph going to have themselves enrolled for taxes; which
scenes were afterwards executed by Francesco da San Gallo, then a young man. Then, in that
part where the greatest space is, Andrea made the Angel Gabriel bringing the Annunciation to
the Virgin--which happened in that very chamber which these marbles enclose--with such grace
and beauty that there is nothing better to be seen, for he made the Virgin wholly intent on
that Salutation, and the Angel, kneeling, appears to be not of marble, but truly celestial,
with "Ave Maria" issuing from his mouth. In company with Gabriel are two other Angels, in full-relief
and detached from the marble, one of whom is walking after him and the other appears to be
flying. Behind a building stand two other Angels, carved out by the chisel in such a way that
they seem to be alive. In the air, on a cloud much undercut--nay, almost entirely detached
from the marble--are many little boys upholding a God the Father, who is sending down the Holy
Spirit by means of a ray of marble, which, descending from Him completely detached, appears
quite real; as, likewise, is the Dove upon it, which represents the Holy Spirit. Nor can one
describe how great is the beauty and how delicate the carving of a vase filled with flowers,
which was made in this work by the gracious hand of Andrea, who lavished so much excellence
on the plumes of the Angels, the hair, the grace of their features and draperies, and, in short,
on every other thing, that this divine work cannot be extolled enough. And, in truth, that
most holy place, which was the very house and habitation of the Mother of the Son of God, could
not obtain from the resources of the world a greater, richer, or more beautiful adornment than
that which it received from the architecture of Bramante and the sculpture of Andrea Sansovino;
although, even if it were entirely of the most precious gems of the East, it would be little
more than nothing in comparison with such merits.

Andrea spent an almost incredible amount of time over this work, and therefore had no time
to finish the others that he had begun; for, in addition to those mentioned above, he began
in a space on one of the side-walls the Nativity of Jesus Christ, with the Shepherds and four
Angels singing; and all these he finished so well that they seem to be wholly alive. But the
story of the Magi, which he began above that one, was afterwards finished by Girolamo Lombardo,
his disciple, and by others. On the back wall he arranged that two large scenes should be made,
one above the other; in one, the Death of Our Lady, with the Apostles bearing her to her burial,
four Angels in the air, and many Jews seeking to steal that most holy corpse; and this was
finished after Andrea's lifetime by the sculptor Bologna. Below this one, then, he arranged
that there should be made a scene of the Miracle of Loreto, showing in what manner that chapel,
which was the Chamber of Our Lady, wherein she was born, brought up, and saluted by the Angel,
and in which she reared her Son up to the age of twelve and lived ever after His Death, was
finally carried by the Angels, first into Sclavonia, afterwards to a forest in the territory
of Recanati, and in the end to the place where it is now held in such veneration and continually
visited in solemn throng by all the Christian people. This scene, I say, was executed in marble
on that wall, according to the arrangement made by Andrea, by the Florentine sculptor Tribolo,
as will be related in due place. Andrea likewise blocked out the Prophets for the niches, but
did not finish them completely, save one alone, and the others were afterwards finished by
the aforesaid Girolamo Lombardo and by other sculptors, as will be seen in the Lives that are
to follow. But with regard to all the works wrought by Andrea in this undertaking, they are
the most beautiful and best executed works of sculpture that had ever been made up to that time.

In like manner, the Palace of the Canons of the same church was also carried on by Andrea,
after the arrangements made by Bramante at the commission of Pope Leo. But this, also, remained
unfinished after the death of Andrea, and the building was continued under Clement VII by Antonio
da San Gallo, and then by the architect Giovanni Boccalino, under the patronage of the very
reverend Cardinal da Carpi, up to the year 1563. While Andrea was at work on the aforesaid
Chapel of the Virgin, there were built the fortifications of Loreto and other works, which
were highly extolled by the all-conquering Signor Giovanni de' Medici, with whom Andrea had
a very strait friendship, having become first acquainted with him in Rome.

Having four months of holiday in the year for repose while he was working at Loreto, he used
to spend that time in agriculture at his native place of Monte Sansovino, enjoying meanwhile
a most tranquil rest with his relatives and friends. Living thus at the Monte during the summer,
he built there a commodious house for himself and bought much property; and for the Friars
of S. Agostino in that place he had a cloister made, which, although small, is very well designed,
but also out of the square, since those Fathers insisted on having it built over the old walls.
Andrea, however, made the interior rectangular by increasing the thickness of the pilasters
at the corners, in order to change it from an ill-proportioned structure into one with good
and true measurements. He designed, also, for a Company that had its seat in that cloister,
under the title of S. Antonio, a very beautiful door of the Doric Order; and likewise the tramezzo[3]
and pulpit of the Church of S. Agostino. He also caused a little chapel to be built for the
friars half-way down the hill on the descent to the fountain, without the door that leads to
the old Pieve, although they had no wish for it. He made the design for the house of Messer
Pietro, a most skilful astrologer, at Arezzo; and a large figure of terra-cotta for Montepulciano,
of King Porsena, which was a rare work, although I have never seen it again since the first
time, so that I fear that it may have come to an evil end. And for a German priest, who was
his friend, he made a lifesize S. Rocco of terra-cotta, very beautiful; which priest had it
placed in the Church of Battifolle, in the district of Arezzo. This was the last piece of sculpture
that Andrea executed.

He gave the design, also, for the steps ascending to the Vescovado of Arezzo; and for the Madonna
delle Lagrime, in the same city, he made the design of a very beautiful ornament that was to
be executed in marble, with four figures, each four braccia high; but this work was carried
no farther, on account of the death of our Andrea. For he, having reached the age of sixty-eight,
and being a man who would never stay idle, set to work to move some stakes from one place to
another at his villa, whereby he caught a chill; and in a few days, worn out by a continuous
fever, he died, in the year 1529.

The death of Andrea grieved his native place by reason of the honour that he had brought it,
and his sons and the women of his household, who lost both their dearest one and their support.
And not long ago Muzio Camillo, one of the three aforesaid sons, who was displaying a most
beautiful intellect in the studies of learning and letters, followed him, to the great loss
of his family and displeasure of his friends.

Andrea, in addition to his profession of art, was truly a person of much distinction, for he
was wise in his discourse, and reasoned most beautifully on every subject. He was prudent and
regular in his every action, much the friend of learned men, and a philosopher of great natural
gifts. He gave much attention to the study of cosmography, and left to his family a number
of drawings and writings on the subject of distances and measurements. He was somewhat small
in stature, but robust and beautifully made. His hair was soft and long, his eyes light in
colour, his nose aquiline, and his skin pink and white; but he had a slight impediment in his
speech.

His disciples were the aforesaid Girolamo Lombardo, the Florentine Simone Cioli, Domenico dal
Monte Sansovino (who died soon after him), and the Florentine Leonardo del Tasso, who made
the S. Sebastian of wood over his own tomb in S. Ambrogio at Florence, and the marble panel
of the Nuns of S. Chiara. A disciple of Andrea, likewise, was the Florentine Jacopo Sansovino--so
called after his master--of whom there will be a long account in the proper place.

Architecture and sculpture, then, are much indebted to Andrea, in that he enriched the one
with many rules of measurement and devices for drawing weights, and with a degree of diligence
that had not been employed before, and in the other he brought his marble to perfection with
marvellous judgment, care, and mastery.

FOOTNOTE:

[3] See note on p. 57, Vol. I.

BENEDETTO DA ROVEZZANO

LIFE OF BENEDETTO DA ROVEZZANO

SCULPTOR

Great, I think, must be the displeasure of those who, having executed some work of genius,
yet, when they hope to enjoy the fruits of this in their old age, and to see the beautiful
results achieved by other intellects in works similar to their own, and to be able to perceive
what perfection there may be in that field of art that they themselves have practised, find
themselves robbed by adverse fortune, by time, by a bad habit of body, or by some other cause,
of the sight of their eyes; whence they are not able, as they were before, to perceive either
the deficiencies or the perfection of men whom they hear of as living and practising their
own professions. And even more are they grieved to hear the praises of the new masters, not
through envy, but because they are not able to judge, like others, whether that fame be well-deserved
or not.

This misfortune happened to Benedetto da Rovezzano, a sculptor of Florence, of whom we are
now about to write the Life, to the end that the world may know how able and practised a sculptor
he was, and with what diligence he carved marble in strong relief against its ground in the
marvellous works that he made. Among the first of many labours that this master executed in
Florence, may be numbered a chimney-piece of grey-stone that is in the house of Pier Francesco
Borgherini, wherein are capitals, friezes, and many other ornaments, carved by his hand in
open-work with great diligence. In the house of Messer Bindo Altoviti, likewise, is a chimney-piece
by the same hand, with a lavatory of marble, and some other things executed with much delicacy;
but everything in these that has to do with architecture was designed by Jacopo Sansovino,
then a young man.

Next, in the year 1512, Benedetto received the commission for a tomb of marble, with rich ornaments,
in the principal chapel of the Carmine in Florence, for Piero Soderini, who had been Gonfalonier
in that city; and that work was executed by him with incredible diligence, seeing that, besides
foliage, carved emblems of death, and figures, he made therein with basanite, in low-relief,
a canopy in imitation of black cloth, with so much grace and such beautiful finish and lustre,
that the stone appears to be exquisite black satin rather than basanite. And, to put it in
a few words, for all that the hand of Benedetto did in this work there is no praise that would
not seem too little.

And since he also gave his attention to architecture, there was restored from the design of
Benedetto a house near S. Apostolo in Florence, belonging to Messer Oddo Altoviti, Patron and
Prior of that church. There Benedetto made the principal door in marble, and, over the door
of the house, the arms of the Altoviti in grey-stone, with the wolf, lean, excoriated, and
carved in such strong relief, that it seems to be almost separate from the shield; and some
pendant ornaments carved in open-work with such delicacy, that they appear to be not of stone,
but of the finest paper. In the same church, above the two chapels of Messer Bindo Altoviti,
for which Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo painted the panel-picture of the Conception in oils, Benedetto
made a marble tomb for the said Messer Oddo, surrounded by an ornament full of most masterly
foliage, with a sarcophagus, likewise very beautiful.

Benedetto also executed, in competition with Jacopo Sansovino and Baccio Bandinelli, as has
been related, one of the Apostles, four and a half braccia in height, for S. Maria del Fiore--namely,
a S. John the Evangelist, which is a passing good figure, wrought with fine design and skill.
This figure is in the Office of Works, in company with the others.

Next, in the year 1515, the chiefs and heads of the Order of Vallombrosa, wishing to transfer
the body of S. Giovanni Gualberto from the Abbey of Passignano to the Church of S. Trinità,
an abbey of the same Order, in Florence, commissioned Benedetto to make a design, upon which
he was to set to work, for a chapel and tomb combined, with a vast number of lifesize figures
in the round, which were to be suitably distributed over that work in some niches separated
by pilasters filled with ornaments and friezes and with delicately carved grotesques. And below
this whole work there was to be a base one braccio and a half in height, wherein were to be
scenes from the life of the said S. Giovanni Gualberto; while endless numbers of other ornaments
were to be round the sarcophagus, and as a crown to the work. On this tomb, then, Benedetto,
assisted by many carvers, laboured continually for ten years, with vast expense to that Congregation;
and he brought the work to completion in their house of Guarlondo, a place near San Salvi,
without the Porta alla Croce, where the General of the Order that was having the work executed
almost always lived. Benedetto, then, carried out the making of that chapel and tomb in such
a manner as amazed Florence; but, as Fate would have it--for even marbles and the finest works
of men of excellence are subject to the whims of fortune--after much discord among those monks,
their government was changed, and the work remained unfinished in the same place until the
year 1530. At which time, war raging round Florence, all those labours were ruined by soldiers,
the heads wrought with such diligence were impiously struck off from the little figures, and
the whole work was so completely destroyed and broken to pieces, that the monks afterwards
sold what was left for a mere song. If any one wishes to see a part of it, let him go to the
Office of Works of S. Maria del Fiore, where there are a few pieces, bought as broken marble
not many years ago by the officials of that place. And, in truth, even as everything is brought
to fine completion in those monasteries and other places where peace and concord reign, so,
on the contrary, nothing ever reaches perfection or an end worthy of praise in places where
there is naught save rivalry and discord, because what takes a good and wise man a hundred
years to build up can be destroyed by an ignorant and crazy boor in one day. And it seems as
if fortune wishes that those who know the least and delight in nothing that is excellent, should
always be the men who govern and command, or rather, ruin, everything: as was also said of
secular Princes, with no less learning than truth, by Ariosto, at the beginning of his seventeenth
canto. But returning to Benedetto: it was a sad pity that all his labours and all the money
spent by that Order should have come to such a miserable end.

By the same architect were designed the door and vestibule of the Badia of Florence, and likewise
some chapels, among them that of S. Stefano, erected by the family of the Pandolfini. Finally,
Benedetto was summoned to England into the service of the King, for whom he executed many works
in marble and in bronze, and, in particular, his tomb; from which works, through the liberality
of that King, he gained enough to be able to live in comfort for the rest of his life. Thereupon
he returned to Florence; but, after he had finished some little things, a sort of giddiness,
which even in England had begun to affect his eyes, and other troubles caused, so it was said,
by standing too long over the fire in the founding of metals, or by some other reasons, in
a short time robbed him completely of the sight of his eyes; wherefore he ceased to work about
the year 1550, and to live a few years after that. Benedetto endured that blindness during
the last years of his life with the patience of a good Christian, thanking God that He had
first enabled him, by means of his labours, to live an honourable life.

Benedetto was a courteous gentleman, and he always delighted in the society of men of culture.
His portrait was copied from one made, when he was a young man, by Agnolo di Donnino. This
original is in our book of drawings, wherein there are also some drawings very well executed
by the hand of Benedetto, who deserves, on account of all those works, to be numbered among
our most excellent craftsmen.

BACCIO DA MONTELUPO AND RAFFAELLO, HIS SON

LIVES OF BACCIO DA MONTELUPO

SCULPTOR

AND OF RAFFAELLO, HIS SON

So strong is the belief of mankind that those who are negligent in the arts which they profess
to practise can never arrive at any perfection in them, that it was in the face of the judgment
of many that Baccio da Montelupo learnt the art of sculpture; and this happened to him because
in his youth, led astray by pleasures, he would scarcely ever study, and, although he was exhorted
and upbraided by many, he thought little or nothing of art. But having come to years of discretion,
which bring sense with them, he was forced straightway to learn how far he was from the good
way. Whereupon, seeing with shame that others were going ahead of him in that art, he resolved
with a stout heart to follow and practise with all possible zeal that which in his idleness
he had hitherto shunned. This resolution was the reason that he produced in sculpture such
fruits as the opinions of many no longer expected from him.

Having thus devoted himself with all his powers to his art, and practising it continually,
he became a rare and excellent master. And of this he gave a proof in a work in hard-stone,
wrought with the chisel, on the corner of the garden attached to the Palace of the Pucci in
Florence; which was the escutcheon of Pope Leo X, with two children supporting it, executed
in a beautiful and masterly manner. He made a Hercules for Pier Francesco de' Medici; and from
the Guild of Porta Santa Maria he received the commission for a statue of S. John the Evangelist,
to be executed in bronze, in securing which he had many difficulties, since a number of masters
made models in competition with him. This figure was afterwards placed on the corner of S.
Michele in Orto, opposite to the Ufficio; and the work was finished by him with supreme diligence.
It is said that when he had made the figure in clay, all who saw the arrangement of the armatures,
and the moulds laid upon them, held it to be a beautiful piece of work, recognizing the rare
ingenuity of Baccio in such an enterprise; and when they had seen it cast with the utmost facility,
they gave Baccio credit for having shown supreme mastery, and having made a solid and beautiful
casting. These labours endured in that profession, brought him the name of a good and even
excellent master; and that figure is esteemed more than ever at the present day by all craftsmen,
who hold it to be most beautiful.

Setting himself also to work in wood, he carved lifesize Crucifixes, of which he made an endless
number for all parts of Italy, and among them one that is over the door of the choir of the
Monks of S. Marco at Florence. These are all excellent and full of grace, but there are some
that are much more perfect than the rest, such as the one of the Murate in Florence, and another,
no less famous than the first, in S. Pietro Maggiore; and for the Monks of SS. Fiora e Lucilla
he made a similar one, which they placed over the high-altar of their abbey at Arezzo, and
which is held to be much the most beautiful of them all. For the visit of Pope Leo X to Florence,
Baccio erected between the Palace of the Podestà and the Badia a very beautiful triumphal arch
of wood and clay; with many little works, which have either disappeared or been dispersed among
the houses of citizens.

Having grown weary, however, of living in Florence, he went off to Lucca, where he executed
some works in sculpture, and even more in architecture, in the service of that city, and, in
particular, the beautiful and well-designed Temple of S. Paulino, the Patron Saint of the people
of Lucca, built with proofs of a fine and well-trained intelligence both within and without,
and richly adorned. Living in that city, then, up to the eighty-eighth year of his life, he
ended his days there, and received honourable burial in the aforesaid S. Paulino from those
whom he had honoured when alive.

A contemporary of Baccio was Agostino, a very famous sculptor and carver of Milan, who began
in S. Maria, at Milan, the tomb of Monsignore de Foix, which remains unfinished even now; and
in it may still be seen many large figures, some finished, some half completed, and others
only blocked out, with a number of scenes in half-relief, in pieces and not built in, and a
great quantity of foliage and trophies. For the Biraghi, also, he made another tomb, which
is finished and erected in S. Francesco, with six large figures, the base wrought with scenes,
and other very beautiful ornaments, which bear witness to the masterly skill of that valiant
craftsman.

Baccio left at his death, among other sons, Raffaello, who applied himself to sculpture, and
not merely equalled his father, but surpassed him by a great measure. This Raffaello, beginning
in his youth to work in clay, in wax, and in bronze, acquired the name of an excellent sculptor,
and was therefore taken by Antonio da San Gallo to Loreto, together with many others, in order
to finish the ornamentation of that Chamber, according to the directions left by Andrea Sansovino;
where Raffaello completely finished the Marriage of Our Lady, begun by the said Sansovino,
executing many things in a beautiful and perfect manner, partly over the beginnings of Andrea,
and partly from his own invention. Wherefore he was deservedly esteemed to be one of the best
craftsmen who worked there in his time.

He had finished this work, when Michelagnolo, by order of Pope Clement VII, proceeded to finish
the new sacristy and the library of S. Lorenzo in Florence; and that master, having recognized
the talent of Raffaello, made use of him in that work, and caused him to execute, among other
things, after the model that he himself had made, the S. Damiano of marble which is now in
that sacristy--a very beautiful statue, very highly extolled by all men. After the death of
Clement, Raffaello attached himself to Duke Alessandro de' Medici, who was then having the
fortress of Prato built; and he made for him in grey-stone, on one of the extremities of the
chief bastion of that fortress--namely, on the outer side--the escutcheon of the Emperor Charles
V, upheld by two nude and lifesize Victories, which were much extolled, as they still are.
And for the extremity of another bastion, in the direction of the city, on the southern side,
he made the arms of Duke Alessandro in the same kind of stone, with two figures. Not long after,
he executed a large Crucifix of wood for the Nuns of S. Apollonia; and for Alessandro Antinori,
a very rich and noble merchant of Florence at that time, he prepared a most magnificent festival
for the marriage of his daughter, with statues, scenes, and many other most beautiful ornaments.

Having then gone to Rome, he received from Buonarroti a commission to make two figures of marble,
each five braccia high, for the tomb of Julius II, which was finished and erected at that time
by Michelagnolo in S. Pietro in Vincula. But Raffaello, falling ill while he was executing
this work, was not able to put into it his usual zeal and diligence, on which account he lost
credit thereby, and gave little satisfaction to Michelagnolo. At the visit of the Emperor Charles
V to Rome, for which Pope Paul III prepared a festival worthy of that all-conquering Prince,
Raffaello made with clay and stucco, on the Ponte S. Angelo, fourteen statues so beautiful,
that they were judged to be the best that had been made for that festival. And, what is more,
he executed them with such rapidity that he was in time to come to Florence, where the Emperor
was likewise expected, to make within the space of five days and no more, on the abutment of
the Ponte a S. Trinità two Rivers of clay, each five braccia high, the Rhine to stand for Germany
and the Danube for Hungary.

After this, having been summoned to Orvieto, he made in marble, in a chapel wherein the excellent
sculptor Mosca had previously executed many most beautiful ornaments, the story of the Magi
in half-relief, which proved to be a very fine work, on account of the great variety of figures
and the good manner with which he executed them.

. Milan: Brera)

Alinari]

Then, having returned to Rome, he was appointed by Tiberio Crispo, at that time Castellan of
the Castello di S. Angelo, as architect of that great structure; whereupon he set in order
many rooms there, adorning them with carvings in many kinds of stone and various sorts of variegated
marbles on the chimney-pieces, windows, and doors. In addition to this, he made a marble statue,
five braccia high, of the Angel of that Castle, which is on the summit of the great square
tower in the centre, where the standard flies, after the likeness of that Angel that appeared
to S. Gregory, who, having prayed that the people should be delivered from a most grievous
pestilence, saw him sheathing his sword in the scabbard. Later, when the said Crispo had been
made a Cardinal, he sent Raffaello several times to Bolsena, where he was building a palace.
Nor was it long before the very reverend Cardinal Salviati and Messer Baldassarre Turini da
Pescia commissioned Raffaello, who had already left the service of the Castle and of Cardinal
Crispo, to make the statue of Pope Leo that is now over his tomb in the Minerva at Rome. That
work finished, Raffaello made a tomb for the same Messer Baldassarre in the Church of Pescia,
where that gentleman had built a chapel of marble. And for a chapel in the Consolazione, at
Rome, he made three figures of marble in half-relief. But afterwards, having given himself
up to the sort of life fit rather for a philosopher than for a sculptor, and wishing to live
in peace, he retired to Orvieto, where he undertook the charge of the building of S. Maria,
in which he made many improvements; and with this he occupied himself for many years, growing
old before his time.

I believe that Raffaello, if he had undertaken great works, as he might have done, would have
executed more things in art, and better, than he did. But he was too kindly and considerate,
avoiding all conflict, and contenting himself with that wherewith fortune had provided him;
and thus he neglected many opportunities of making works of distinction. Raffaello was a very
masterly draughtsman, and he had a much better knowledge of all matters of art than had been
shown by his father Baccio. In our book are some drawings by the hand both of the one and of
the other; but those of Raffaello are much the finer and more graceful, and executed with better
art. In his architectural decorations Raffaello followed in great measure the manner of Michelagnolo,
as is proved by the chimney-pieces, doors, and windows that he made in the aforesaid Castello
di S. Angelo, and by some chapels built under his direction, in a rare and beautiful manner,
at Orvieto.

But returning to Baccio: his death was a great grief to the people of Lucca, who had known
him as a good and upright man, courteous to all, and very loving. Baccio's works date about
the year of our Lord 1533. His dearest friend, who learnt many things from him, was Zaccaria
da Volterra, who executed many works in terra-cotta at Bologna, some of which are in the Church
of S. Giuseppe.

LORENZO DI CREDI

LIFE OF LORENZO DI CREDI

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

The while that Maestro Credi, an excellent goldsmith in his day, was working in Florence with
very good credit and repute, Andrea Sciarpelloni placed with him, to the end that he might
learn that craft, his son Lorenzo, a young man of beautiful intellect and excellent character.
And since the ability and willingness of the master to teach were not greater than the zeal
and readiness with which the disciple absorbed whatever was shown to him, no long time passed
before Lorenzo became not only a good and diligent designer, but also so able and finished
a goldsmith, that no young man of that time was his equal; and this brought such honour to
Credi, that from that day onward Lorenzo was always called by everyone, not Lorenzo Sciarpelloni,
but Lorenzo di Credi.

Growing in courage, then, Lorenzo attached himself to Andrea Verrocchio, who at that time had
taken it into his head to devote himself to painting; and under him, having Pietro Perugino
and Leonardo da Vinci as his companions and friends, although they were rivals, he set himself
with all diligence to learn to paint. And since Lorenzo took an extraordinary pleasure in the
manner of Leonardo, he contrived to imitate it so well that there was no one who came nearer
to it than he did in the high finish and thorough perfection of his works, as may be seen from
many drawings that are in our book, executed with the style, with the pen, or in water-colours,
among which are some drawings made from models of clay covered with waxed linen cloths and
with liquid clay, imitated with such diligence, and finished with such patience, as it is scarcely
possible to conceive, much less to equal.

For these reasons, then, Lorenzo was so beloved by his master, that, when Andrea went to Venice
to cast in bronze the horse and the statue of Bartolommeo da Bergamo, he left to Lorenzo the
whole management and administration of his revenues and affairs, and likewise all his drawings,
reliefs, statues, and art materials. And Lorenzo, on his part, loved his master Andrea so dearly,
that, besides occupying himself with incredible zeal with his interests in Florence, he also
went more than once to Venice to see him and to render him an account of his good administration,
which was so much to the satisfaction of his master, that, if Lorenzo had consented, Andrea
would have made him his heir. Nor did Lorenzo prove in any way ungrateful for this good-will,
for, after the death of Andrea, he went to Venice and brought his body to Florence; and then
he handed over to his heirs everything that was found to belong to Andrea, except his drawings,
pictures, sculptures, and all other things connected with art.

The first paintings of Lorenzo were a round picture of Our Lady, which was sent to the King
of Spain (the design of which picture he copied from one by his master Andrea), and a picture,
much better than the other, which was likewise copied by Lorenzo from one by Leonardo da Vinci,
and also sent to Spain; and so similar was it to that by Leonardo, that no difference could
be seen between the one and the other. By the hand of Lorenzo is a Madonna in a very well executed
panel, which is beside the great Church of S. Jacopo at Pistoia; and another, also, which is
in the Hospital of the Ceppo, and is one of the best pictures in that city. Lorenzo painted
many portraits, and when he was a young man he made that one of himself which is now in the
possession of his disciple, Gian Jacopo, a painter in Florence, together with many other things
left to him by Lorenzo, among which are the portrait of Pietro Perugino and that of Lorenzo's
master, Andrea Verrocchio. He also made a portrait of Girolamo Benivieni, a man of great learning,
and much his friend.

For the Company of S. Sebastiano, behind the Church of the Servi in Florence, he executed a
panel-picture of Our Lady, S. Sebastian, and other saints; and for the altar of S. Giuseppe,
in S. Maria del Fiore, he painted the first-named saint. To Montepulciano he sent a panel that
is now in the Church of S. Agostino, containing a Crucifix, Our Lady, and S. John, painted
with much diligence. But the best work that Lorenzo ever executed, and that to which he devoted
the greatest care and zeal, in order to surpass himself, was the one that is in a chapel at
Cestello, a panel containing Our Lady, S. Julian, and S. Nicholas; and whoever wishes to know
how necessary it is for a painter to work with a high finish in oils if he desires that his
pictures should remain fresh, must look at this panel, which is painted with such a finish
as could not be excelled.

While still a young man, Lorenzo painted a S. Bartholomew on a pilaster in Orsanmichele, and
for the Nuns of S. Chiara, in Florence, a panel-picture of the Nativity of Christ, with some
shepherds and angels; in which picture, besides other things, he took great pains with the
imitation of some herbage, painting it so well that it appears to be real. For the same place
he made a picture of S. Mary Magdalene in Penitence; and in a round picture that is in the
house of Messer Ottaviano de' Medici he painted a Madonna. For S. Friano he painted a panel;
and he executed some figures in S. Matteo at the Hospital of Lelmo. For S. Reparata he painted
a picture with the Angel Michael, and for the Company of the Scalzo he made a panel-picture,
executed with much diligence. And, in addition to these works, he made many pictures of Our
Lady and others, which are dispersed among the houses of citizens in Florence.

Having thus got together a certain sum of money by means of these labours, and being a man
who loved quiet more than riches, Lorenzo retired to S. Maria Nuova in Florence, where he lived
and had a comfortable lodging until his death. Lorenzo was much inclined to the sect of Fra
Girolamo of Ferrara, and always lived like an upright and orderly man, showing a friendly courtesy
whenever the occasion arose. Finally, having come to the seventy-eighth year of his life, he
died of old age, and was buried in S. Pietro Maggiore, in the year 1530.

He showed such a perfection of finish in his works, that any other painting, in comparison
with his, must always seem merely sketched and dirty. He left many disciples, and among them
Giovanni Antonio Sogliani and Tommaso di Stefano. Of Sogliani there will be an account in another
place; and as for Tommaso, he imitated his master closely in his high finish, and made many
works in Florence and abroad, including a panel-picture for Marco del Nero at his villa of
Arcetri, of the Nativity of Christ, executed with great perfection of finish. But ultimately
it became Tommaso's principal profession to paint on cloth, insomuch that he painted church-hangings
better than any other man. Now Stefano, the father of Tommaso, had been an illuminator, and
had also done something in architecture; and Tommaso, after his father's death, in order to
follow in his steps, rebuilt the bridge of Sieve, which had been destroyed by a flood about
that time, at a distance of ten miles from Florence, and likewise that of S. Piero a Ponte
on the River Bisenzio, which is a beautiful work; and afterwards he erected many buildings
for monasteries and other places. Then, being architect to the Guild of Wool, he made the model
for the new buildings which were constructed by that Guild behind the Nunziata; and, finally,
having reached the age of seventy or more, he died in the year 1564, and was buried in S. Marco,
to which he was followed by an honourable train of the Academy of Design.

But returning to Lorenzo: he left many works unfinished at his death, and, in particular, a
very beautiful picture of the Passion of Christ, which came into the hands of Antonio da Ricasoli,
and a panel painted for M. Francesco da Castiglioni, Canon of S. Maria del Fiore, who sent
it to Castiglioni. Lorenzo had no wish to make many large works, because he took great pains
in executing his pictures, and devoted an incredible amount of labour to them, for the reason,
above all, that the colours which he used were ground too fine; besides which, he was always
purifying and distilling his nut-oils, and he made mixtures of colours on his palette in such
numbers, that from the first of the light tints to the last of the darks there was a gradual
succession involving an over-careful and truly excessive elaboration, so that at times he had
twenty-five or thirty of them on his palette. For each tint he kept a separate brush; and where
he was working he would never allow any movement that might raise dust. Such excessive care
is perhaps no more worthy of praise than the other extreme of negligence, for in all things
one should observe a certain mean and avoid extremes, which are generally harmful.

LORENZETTO AND BOCCACCINO

LIVES OF LORENZETTO

SCULPTOR AND ARCHITECT OF FLORENCE

AND OF BOCCACCINO

PAINTER OF CREMONA

It happens at times, after Fortune has kept the talent of some fine intellect subjected for
a period by poverty, that she thinks better of it, and at an unexpected moment provides all
sorts of benefits for one who has hitherto been the object of her hatred, so as to atone in
one year for the affronts and discomforts of many. This was seen in Lorenzo, the son of Lodovico
the bell-founder, a Florentine, who was engaged in the work both of architecture and of sculpture,
and was loved so dearly by Raffaello da Urbino, that he not only was assisted by him and employed
in many enterprises, but also received from the same master a wife in the person of a sister
of Giulio Romano, a disciple of Raffaello.

Lorenzetto[4]--for thus he was always called--finished in his youth the tomb of Cardinal Forteguerra,
formerly begun by Andrea Verrocchio, which was erected in S. Jacopo at Pistoia; and there,
among other things, is a Charity by the hand of Lorenzetto, which is not otherwise than passing
good. And a little afterwards he made a figure for Giovanni Bartolini, to adorn his garden;
which finished, he went to Rome, where in his first years he executed many works, of which
there is no need to make any further record. Then, receiving from Agostino Chigi, at the instance
of Raffaello da Urbino, the commission to make a tomb for him in S. Maria del Popolo, where
Agostino had built a chapel, Lorenzo set himself to work on this with all the zeal, diligence,
and labour in his power, in order to come out of it with credit and to give satisfaction to
Raffaello, from whom he had reason to expect much favour and assistance, and also in the hope
of being richly rewarded by the liberality of Agostino, a man of great wealth. Nor were these
labours expended without an excellent result, for, assisted by Raffaello, he executed the figures
to perfection: a nude Jonah delivered from the belly of the whale, as a symbol of the resurrection
from the dead, and an Elijah, living by grace, with his cruse of water and his bread baked
in the ashes, under the juniper-tree. These statues, then, were brought to the most beautiful
completion by Lorenzetto with all the art and diligence at his command, but he did not by any
means obtain for them that reward which his great labours and the needs of his family called
for, since, death having closed the eyes of Agostino, and almost at the same time those of
Raffaello, the heirs of Agostino, with scant respect, allowed these figures to remain in Lorenzetto's
workshop, where they stood for many years. In our own day, indeed, they have been set into
place on that tomb in the aforesaid Church of S. Maria del Popolo; but Lorenzo, robbed for
those reasons of all hope, found for the present that he had thrown away his time and labour.

Next, by way of executing the testament of Raffaello, Lorenzo was commissioned to make a marble
statue of Our Lady, four braccia high, for the tomb of Raffaello in the Temple of S. Maria
Ritonda, where the tabernacle was restored by order of that master. The same Lorenzo made a
tomb with two children in half-relief, for a merchant of the Perini family, in the Trinità
at Rome. And in architecture he made the designs for many houses; in particular, that of the
Palace of Messer Bernardino Caffarelli, and in the Valle, for Cardinal Andrea della Valle,
the inner façade, and also the design of the stables and of the upper garden. In the composition
of that work he included ancient columns, bases, and capitals, and around the whole, to serve
as base, he distributed ancient sarcophagi covered with carved scenes. Higher up, below some
large niches, he made another frieze with fragments of ancient works, and above this, in those
niches, he placed some statues, likewise ancient and of marble, which, although they were not
entire--some being without the head, some without arms, others without legs, and every one,
in short, with something missing--nevertheless he arranged to the best advantage, having caused
all that was lacking to be restored by good sculptors. This was the reason that other lords
have since done the same thing and have restored many ancient works; as, for example, Cardinals
Cesis, Ferrara, and Farnese, and, in a word, all Rome. And, in truth, antiquities restored
in this way have more grace than those mutilated trunks, members without heads, or figures
in any other way maimed and defective. But to return to the aforesaid garden: over the niches
was placed the frieze that is still seen there, of supremely beautiful ancient scenes in half-relief;
and this invention of Lorenzo's stood him in very good stead, since, after the troubles of
Pope Clement had abated, he was employed by him with much honour and profit to himself. For
the Pope had seen, when the fight for the Castello di S. Angelo was raging, that two little
chapels of marble, which were at the head of the bridge, had been a source of mischief, in
that some harquebusiers, standing in them, shot down all who exposed themselves at the walls,
and, themselves in safety, inflicted great losses and baulked the defence; and his Holiness
resolved to remove those chapels and to set up in place of them two marble statues on pedestals.
And so, after the S. Paul of Paolo Romano, of which there has been an account in another Life,
had been set in place, the commission for the other, a S. Peter, was given to Lorenzetto, who
acquitted himself passing well, but did not surpass the work of Paolo Romano. These two statues
were set up, and are to be seen at the present day at the head of the bridge.

After Pope Clement was dead, Baccio Bandinelli was given the commissions for the tombs of that
Pope and of Leo X, and Lorenzo was entrusted with the marble masonry that was to be executed
for them; whereupon the latter spent no little time over that work. Finally, at the election
of Paul III as Pontiff, when Lorenzo was in sorry straits and almost worn out, having nothing
but a house which he had built for himself in the Macello de' Corbi, and being weighed down
by his five children and by other expenses, Fortune changed and began to raise him and to set
him back on a better path; for Pope Paul wishing to have the building of S. Pietro continued,
and neither Baldassarre of Siena nor any of the others who had been employed in that work being
now alive, Antonio da San Gallo appointed Lorenzo as architect for that structure, wherein
the walls were being built at a fixed price of so much for every four braccia. Thereupon Lorenzo,
without exerting himself, in a few years became more famous and prosperous than he had been
after many years of endless labour, through having found God, mankind, and Fortune all propitious
at that one moment. And if he had lived longer, he would have done even more towards wiping
out those injuries that a cruel fate had unjustly brought upon him during his best period of
work. But after reaching the age of forty-seven, he died of fever in the year 1541.

The death of this master caused great grief to his many friends, who had always known him as
a loving and reasonable man. And since he had always lived like an upright and orderly citizen,
the Deputati of S. Pietro gave him honourable burial in a tomb, on which they placed the following
epitaph:

  SCULPTORI LAURENTIO FLORENTINO

  ROMA MIHI TRIBUIT TUMULUM, FLORENTIA VITAM:
  NEMO ALIO VELLET NASCI ET OBIRE LOCO.
  MDXLI
  VIX. ANN. XLVII, MEN. II, D. XV.

Boccaccino of Cremona, who lived about the same time, had acquired the name of a rare and excellent
painter in his native place and throughout all Lombardy, and his works were very highly extolled,
when he went to Rome to see the works, so much renowned, of Michelagnolo; but no sooner had
he seen them than he sought to the best of his power to disparage and revile them, believing
that he could exalt himself almost exactly in proportion as he vilified a man who truly was
in the matters of design, and indeed in all others without exception, supremely excellent.
This master, then, was commissioned to paint the Chapel of S. Maria Traspontina; but when he
had finished it and thrown it open to view, it was a revelation to all those who thought that
he would soar above the heavens, for they saw that he could not reach even to the level of
the lowest floor of a house. And so the painters of Rome, on seeing the Coronation of Our Lady
that he had painted in that work, with some children flying around her, changed from marvel
to laughter.

From this it may be seen that when people begin to exalt with their praise men who are more
excellent in name than in deeds, it is a difficult thing to contrive to bring such men down
to their true level with words, however reasonable, before their own works, wholly contrary
to their reputation, reveal what the masters so celebrated really are. And it is a very certain
fact that the worst harm that one man can do to another is the giving of praise too early to
any intellect engaged in work, since such praise, swelling him with premature pride, prevents
him from going any farther, and a man so greatly extolled, on finding that his works have not
that excellence which was expected, takes the censure too much to heart, and despairs completely
of ever being able to do good work. Wise men, therefore, should fear praise much more than
censure, for the first flatters and deceives, and the second, revealing the truth, gives instruction.

Boccaccino, then, departing from Rome, where he felt himself wounded and torn to pieces, returned
to Cremona, and there continued to practise painting to the best of his power and knowledge.
In the Duomo, over the arches in the middle, he painted all the stories of the Madonna; and
this work is much esteemed in that city. He also made other works throughout that city and
in the neighbourhood, of which there is no need to make mention.

He taught his art to a son of his own, called Camillo, who, applying himself to the art with
more study, strove to make amends for the shortcomings of the boastful Boccaccino. By the hand
of this Camillo are some works in S. Gismondo, which is a mile distant from Cremona; and these
are esteemed by the people of Cremona as the best paintings that they have. He also painted
the façade of a house on their Piazza, all the compartments of the vaulting and some panels
in S. Agata, and the façade of S. Antonio, together with other works, which made him known
as a practised master. If death had not snatched him from the world before his time, he would
have achieved a most honourable success, for he was advancing on the good way; and even for
those works that he has left to us, he deserves to have record made of him.

But returning to Boccaccino; without having ever made any improvement in his art, he passed
from this life at the age of fifty-eight. In his time there lived in Milan a passing good illuminator,
called Girolamo, whose works may be seen in good numbers both in that city and throughout all
Lombardy. A Milanese, likewise, living about the same time, was Bernardino del Lupino,[5] a
very delicate and pleasing painter, as may be seen from many works by his hand that are in
that city, and from a Marriage of Our Lady at Sarone, a place twelve miles distant from Milan,
and other scenes that are in the Church of S. Maria, executed most perfectly in fresco. He
also worked with a very high finish in oils, and he was a courteous person, and very liberal
with his possessions; wherefore he deserves all the praise that is due to any craftsman who
makes the works and ways of his daily life shine by the adornment of courtesy no less than
do his works of art on account of their excellence.

=. Saronno: Santuario della Beata Vergine)

Anderson]

FOOTNOTE:

[4] Diminutive of Lorenzo.

[5] Luini.

BALDASSARRE PERUZZI

LIFE OF BALDASSARRE PERUZZI

PAINTER AND ARCHITECT OF SIENA

Among all the gifts that Heaven distributes to mortals, none, in truth, can or should be held
in more account than talent, with calmness and peace of soul, for the first makes us for ever
immortal, and the second blessed. He, then, who is endowed with these gifts, in addition to
the deep gratitude that he should feel towards God, must make himself known among other men
almost as a light amid darkness. And even so, in our own times, did Baldassarre Peruzzi, a
painter and architect of Siena, of whom we can say with certainty that the modesty and goodness
which were revealed in him were no mean offshoots of that supreme serenity for which the minds
of all who are born in this world are ever sighing, and that the works which he left to us
are most honourable fruits of that true excellence which was infused in him by Heaven.

Now, although I have called him above, Baldassarre of Siena, because he was always known as
a Sienese, I will not withhold that even as seven cities contended for Homer, each claiming
that he was her citizen, so three most noble cities of Tuscany--Florence, Volterra, and Siena--have
each held that Baldassarre was her son. But, to tell the truth, each of them has a share in
him, seeing that Antonio Peruzzi, a noble citizen of Florence, that city being harassed by
civil war, went off, in the hope of a quieter life, to Volterra; and after living some time
there, in the year 1482 he took a wife in that city, and in a few years had two children, one
a boy, called Baldassarre, and the other a girl, who received the name of Virginia. Now it
happened that war pursued this man who sought nothing but peace and quiet, and that no long
time afterwards Volterra was sacked; whence Antonio was forced to fly to Siena, and to live
there in great poverty, having lost almost all that he had.

Meanwhile Baldassarre, having grown up, was for ever associating with persons of ability, and
particularly with goldsmiths and draughtsmen; and thus, beginning to take pleasure in the arts,
he devoted himself heart and soul to drawing. And not long after, his father being now dead,
he applied himself to painting with such zeal, that in a very short time he made marvellous
progress therein, imitating living and natural things as well as the works of the best masters.
In this way, executing what work he could find, he was able to maintain himself, his mother,
and his sister with his art, and to pursue the studies of painting.

His first work--apart from some things at Siena, not worthy of mention--was in a little chapel
near the Porta Fiorentina at Volterra, wherein he executed some figures with such grace, that
they led to his forming a friendship with a painter of Volterra, called Piero, who lived most
of his time in Rome, and going off with that master to that city, where he was doing some work
in the Palace for Alexander VI. But after the death of Alexander, Maestro Piero working no
more in that place, Baldassarre entered the workshop of the father of Maturino, a painter of
no great excellence, who at that time had always plenty of work to do in the form of commonplace
commissions. That painter, then, placing a panel primed with gesso before Baldassarre, but
giving him no scrap of drawing or cartoon, told him to make a Madonna upon it. Baldassarre
took a piece of charcoal, and in a moment, with great mastery, he had drawn what he wished
to paint in the picture; and then, setting his hand to the colouring, in a few days he painted
a picture so beautiful and so well finished, that it amazed not only the master of the workshop,
but also many painters who saw it; and they, recognizing his ability, contrived to obtain for
him the commission to paint the Chapel of the High-Altar in the Church of S. Onofrio, which
he executed in fresco with much grace and in a very beautiful manner. After this, he painted
two other little chapels in fresco in the Church of S. Rocco a Ripa. Having thus begun to be
in good repute, he was summoned to Ostia, where he painted most beautiful scenes in chiaroscuro
in some apartments of the great tower of the fortress; in particular, a hand-to-hand battle
after the manner in which the ancient Romans used to fight, and beside this a company of soldiers
delivering an assault on a fortress, wherein the attackers, covered by their shields, are seen
making a beautiful and spirited onslaught and planting their ladders against the walls, while
the men within are hurling them back with the utmost fury. In this scene, also, he painted
many antique instruments of war, and likewise various kinds of arms; with many other scenes
in another hall, which are held to be among the best works that he ever made, although it is
true that he was assisted in this work by Cesare da Milano.

After these labours, having returned to Rome, Baldassarre formed a very strait friendship with
Agostino Chigi of Siena, both because Agostino had a natural love for every man of talent,
and because Baldassarre called himself a Sienese. And thus, with the help of so great a man,
he was able to maintain himself while studying the antiquities of Rome, and particularly those
in architecture, wherein, out of rivalry with Bramante, in a short time he made marvellous
proficience, which afterwards brought him, as will be related, very great honour and profit.
He also gave attention to perspective, and became such a master of that science, that we have
seen few in our own times who have worked in it as well as he. Pope Julius II having meanwhile
built a corridor in his Palace, with an aviary near the roof, Baldassarre painted there, in
chiaroscuro, all the months of the year and the pursuits that are practised in each of them.
In this work may be seen an endless number of buildings, theatres, amphitheatres, palaces,
and other edifices, all distributed with beautiful invention in that place. He then painted,
in company with other painters, some apartments in the Palace of S. Giorgio for Cardinal Raffaello
Riario, Bishop of Ostia; and he painted a façade opposite to the house of Messer Ulisse da
Fano, and also that of the same Messer Ulisse, wherein he executed stories of Ulysses that
brought him very great renown and fame.

Even greater was the fame that came to him from the model of the Palace of Agostino Chigi,
executed with such beautiful grace that it seems not to have been built, but rather to have
sprung into life; and with his own hand he decorated the exterior with most beautiful scenes
in terretta. The hall, likewise, is adorned with rows of columns executed in perspective, which,
with the depth of the intercolumniation, cause it to appear much larger. But what is the greatest
marvel of all is a loggia that may be seen over the garden, painted by Baldassarre with scenes
of the Medusa turning men into stone, such that nothing more beautiful can be imagined; and
then there is Perseus cutting off her head, with many other scenes in the spandrels of that
vaulting, while the ornamentation, drawn in perspective with colours, in imitation of stucco,
is so natural and lifelike, that even to excellent craftsmen it appears to be in relief. And
I remember that when I took the Chevalier Tiziano, a most excellent and honoured painter, to
see that work, he would by no means believe that it was painted, until he had changed his point
of view, when he was struck with amazement. In that place are some works executed by Fra Sebastiano
Viniziano, in his first manner; and by the hand of the divine Raffaello, as has been related,
there is a Galatea being carried off by sea-gods.

Baldassarre also painted, beyond the Campo di Fiore, on the way to the Piazza Giudea, a most
beautiful façade in terretta with marvellous perspectives, for which he received the commission
from a Groom of the Chamber to the Pope; and it is now in the possession of Jacopo Strozzi,
the Florentine. In like manner, he wrought for Messer Ferrando Ponzetti, who afterwards became
a Cardinal, a chapel at the entrance of the Church of the Pace, on the left hand, with little
scenes from the Old Testament, and also with some figures of considerable size; and for a work
in fresco this is executed with much diligence. But even more did he prove his worth in painting
and perspective near the high-altar of the same church, where he painted a scene for Messer
Filippo da Siena, Clerk of the Chamber, of Our Lady going into the Temple, ascending the steps,
with many figures worthy of praise, such as a gentleman in antique dress, who, having dismounted
from his horse, with his servants waiting, is giving alms to a beggar, quite naked and very
wretched, who may be seen asking him for it with pitiful humility. In this place, also, are
various buildings and most beautiful ornaments; and right round the whole work, executed likewise
in fresco, are counterfeited decorations of stucco, which have the appearance of being attached
to the wall with large rings, as if it were a panel painted in oils.

And in the magnificent festival that the Roman people prepared on the Campidoglio when the
baton of Holy Church was given to Duke Giuliano de' Medici, out of six painted scenes which
were executed by six different painters of eminence, that by the hand of Baldassarre, twenty-eight
braccia high and fourteen broad, showing the betrayal of the Romans by Julia Tarpeia, was judged
to be without a doubt better than any of the others. But what amazed everyone most was the
perspective-view or scenery for a play, which was so beautiful that it would be impossible
to imagine anything finer, seeing that the variety and beautiful manner of the buildings, the
various loggie, the extravagance of the doors and windows, and the other architectural details
that were seen in it, were so well conceived and so extraordinary in invention, that one is
not able to describe the thousandth part.

For the house of Messer Francesco di Norcia, on the Piazza de' Farnesi, he made a very graceful
door of the Doric Order; and for Messer Francesco Buzio he executed, near the Piazza degl'
Altieri, a very beautiful façade, in the frieze of which he painted portraits from life of
all the Roman Cardinals who were then alive, while on the wall itself he depicted the scenes
of Cæsar receiving tribute from all the world, and above he painted the twelve Emperors, who
are standing upon certain corbels, being foreshortened with a view to being seen from below,
and wrought with extraordinary art. For this whole work he rightly obtained vast commendation.
In the Banchi he executed the escutcheon of Pope Leo, with three children, that seemed to be
alive, so tender was their flesh. For Fra Mariano Fetti, Friar of the Piombo, he made a very
beautiful S. Bernard in terretta in his garden at Montecavallo. And for the Company of S. Catherine
of Siena, on the Strada Giulia, in addition to a bier for carrying the dead to burial, he executed
many other things, all worthy of praise. In Siena, also, he gave the design for the organ of
the Carmine; and he made some other works in that city, but none of much importance.

Later, having been summoned to Bologna by the Wardens of Works of S. Petronio, to the end that
he might make the model for the façade of that church, he made for this two large ground-plans
and two elevations, one in the modern manner and the other in the German; and the latter is
still preserved in the Sacristy of the same S. Petronio, as a truly extraordinary work, since
he drew that building in such sharply-detailed perspective that it appears to be in relief.
In the house of Count Giovan Battista Bentivogli, in the same city, he made several drawings
for the aforesaid structure, which were so beautiful, that it is not possible to praise enough
the wonderful expedients sought out by this man in order not to destroy the old masonry, but
to join it in beautiful proportion with the new. For the Count Giovan Battista mentioned above
he made the design of a Nativity with the Magi, in chiaroscuro, wherein it is a marvellous
thing to see the horses, the equipage, and the courts of the three Kings, executed with supreme
beauty and grace, as are also the walls of the temples and some buildings round the hut. This
work was afterwards given to be coloured by the Count to Girolamo Trevigi, who brought it to
fine completion. Baldassarre also made the design for the door of the Church of S. Michele
in Bosco, a most beautiful monastery of the Monks of Monte Oliveto, without Bologna; and the
design and model of the Duomo of Carpi, which was very beautiful, and was built under his direction
according to the rules of Vitruvius. And in the same place he made a beginning with the Church
of S. Niccola, but it was not finished at that time, because Baldassarre was almost forced
to return to Siena in order to make designs for the fortifications of that city, which were
afterwards carried into execution under his supervision.

He then returned to Rome, where, after building the house that is opposite to the Farnese Palace,
with some others within that city, he was employed in many works by Pope Leo X. That Pontiff
wished to finish the building of S. Pietro, begun by Julius II after the design of Bramante,
but it appeared to him that the edifice was too large and lacking in cohesion; and Baldassarre
made a new model, magnificent and truly ingenious, and revealing such good judgment, that some
parts of it have since been used by other architects. So diligent, indeed, was this craftsman,
so rare and so beautiful his judgment, and such the method with which his buildings were always
designed, that he has never had an equal in works of architecture, seeing that, in addition
to his other gifts, he combined that profession with a good and beautiful manner of painting.
He made the design of the tomb of Adrian VI, and all that is painted round it is by his hand;
and Michelagnolo, a sculptor of Siena, executed that tomb in marble, with the help of our Baldassarre.

When the Calandra, a play by Cardinal Bibbiena, was performed before the same Pope Leo, Baldassarre
made the scenic setting, which was no less beautiful--much more so, indeed--than that which
he had made on another occasion, as has been related above. In such works he deserved all the
greater praise, because dramatic performances, and consequently the scenery for them, had been
out of fashion for a long time, festivals and sacred representations taking their place. And
either before or after (it matters little which) the performance of the aforesaid Calandra,
which was one of the first plays in the vulgar tongue to be seen or performed, in the time
of Leo X, Baldassarre made two such scenes, which were marvellous, and opened the way to those
who have since made them in our own day. Nor is it possible to imagine how he found room, in
a space so limited, for so many streets, so many palaces, and so many bizarre temples, loggie,
and various kinds of cornices, all so well executed that it seemed that they were not counterfeited,
but absolutely real, and that the piazza was not a little thing, and merely painted, but real
and very large. He designed, also, the chandeliers and the lights within that illuminated the
scene, and all the other things that were necessary, with much judgment, although, as has been
related, the drama had fallen almost completely out of fashion. This kind of spectacle, in
my belief, when it has all its accessories, surpasses any other kind, however sumptuous and
magnificent.

Afterwards, at the election of Pope Clement VII in the year 1524, he prepared the festivities
for his coronation. He finished with peperino-stone the front of the principal chapel, formerly
begun by Bramante, in S. Pietro; and in the chapel wherein is the bronze tomb of Pope Sixtus,
he painted in chiaroscuro the Apostles that are in the niches behind the altar, besides making
the design of the Tabernacle of the Sacrament, which is very graceful.

Then in the year 1527, when the cruel sack of Rome took place, our poor Baldassarre was taken
prisoner by the Spaniards, and not only lost all his possessions, but was also much maltreated
and outraged, because he was grave, noble, and gracious of aspect, and they believed him to
be some great prelate in disguise, or some other man able to pay a fat ransom. Finally, however,
those impious barbarians having found that he was a painter, one of them, who had borne a great
affection to Bourbon, caused him to make a portrait of that most rascally captain, the enemy
of God and man, either letting Baldassarre see him as he lay dead, or giving him his likeness
in some other way, with drawings or with words. After this, having slipped from their hands,
Baldassarre took ship to go to Porto Ercole, and thence to Siena; but on the way he was robbed
of everything and stripped to such purpose, that he went to Siena in his shirt. However, he
was received with honour and reclothed by his friends, and a little time afterwards he was
given a provision and a salary by the Commonwealth, to the end that he might give his attention
to the fortification of that city. Living there, he had two children; and, besides what he
did for the public service, he made many designs of houses for his fellow-citizens, and the
design for the ornament of the organ, which is very beautiful, in the Church of the Carmine.

Meanwhile, the armies of the Emperor and the Pope had advanced to the siege of Florence, and
his Holiness sent Baldassarre to the camp to Baccio Valori, the Military Commissary, to the
end that Baccio might avail himself of his services for the purposes of his operations and
for the capture of the city. But Baldassarre, loving the liberty of his former country more
than the favour of the Pope, and in no way fearing the indignation of so great a Pontiff, would
never lend his aid in any matter of importance. The Pope, hearing of this, for a short time
bore him no little ill-will; but when the war was finished, Baldassarre desiring to return
to Rome, Cardinals Salviati, Trivulzi, and Cesarino, to all of whom he had given faithful service
in many works, restored him to the favour of the Pope and to his former appointments. He was
thus able to return without hindrance to Rome, where, not many days after, he made for the
Signori Orsini the designs of two very beautiful palaces, which were built on the way to Viterbo,
and of some other edifices for Apuglia. But meanwhile he did not neglect the studies of astrology,
nor those of mathematics and the others in which he much delighted, and he began a book on
the antiquities of Rome, with a commentary on Vitruvius, making little by little illustrative
drawings beside the writings of that author, some of which are still to be seen in the possession
of Francesco da Siena, who was his disciple, and among them some papers with drawings of ancient
edifices and of the modern manner of building.

While living in Rome, also, he made the design for the house of the Massimi, drawn in an oval
form, with a new and beautiful manner of building; and for the façade he made a vestibule of
Doric columns showing great art and good proportion, with a beautiful distribution of detail
in the court and in the disposition of the stairs; but he was not able to see this work finished,
for he was overtaken by death.

And yet, although the talents and labours of this noble craftsman were so great, they brought
much more benefit to others than to himself; for, while he was employed by Popes, Cardinals,
and other great and rich persons, not one of them ever gave him any remarkable reward. That
this should have happened is not surprising, not so much through want of liberality in such
patrons, although for the most part they are least liberal where they should be the very opposite,
as through the timidity and excessive modesty, or rather, to be more exact in this case, the
lack of shrewdness of Baldassarre. To tell the truth, in proportion as one should be discreet
with magnanimous and liberal Princes, so should one always be pressing and importunate with
such as are miserly, unthankful, and discourteous, for the reason that, even as in the case
of the generous importunate asking would always be a vice, so with the miserly it is a virtue,
and with such men it is discretion that would be the vice.

In the last years of his life, then, Baldassarre found himself poor and weighed down by his
family. Finally, having always lived a life without reproach, he fell grievously ill, and took
to his bed; and Pope Paul III, hearing this, and recognizing too late the harm that he was
like to suffer in the loss of so great a man, sent Jacopo Melighi, the accountant of S. Pietro,
to give him a present of one hundred crowns, and to make him most friendly offers. However,
his sickness increased, either because it was so ordained, or, as many believe, because his
death was hastened with poison by some rival who desired his place, from which he drew two
hundred and fifty crowns of salary; and, the physicians discovering this too late, he died,
very unwilling to give up his life, more on account of his poor family than for his own sake,
as he thought in what sore straits he was leaving them. He was much lamented by his children
and his friends, and he received honourable burial, next to Raffaello da Urbino, in the Ritonda,
whither he was followed by all the painters, sculptors, and architects of Rome, doing him honour
and bewailing him; with the following epitaph:

  BALTHASARI PERUTIO SENENSI, VIRO ET PICTURA ET ARCHITECTURA
  ALIISQUE INGENIORUM ARTIBUS ADEO EXCELLENTI, UT SI PRISCORUM
  OCCUBUISSET TEMPORIBUS, NOSTRA ILLUM FELICIUS LEGERENT. VIX.
  ANN. LV, MENS. XI, DIES XX.
  LUCRETIA ET JO. SALUSTIUS OPTIMO CONJUGI ET PARENTI, NON SINE LACRIMIS
  SIMONIS, HONORII, CLAUDII, ÆMILIÆ, AC SULPITIÆ, MINORUM FILIORUM,
  DOLENTES POSUERUNT, DIE IIII JANUARII, MDXXXVI.

The name and fame of Baldassarre became greater after his death than they had been during his
lifetime; and then, above all, was his talent missed, when Pope Paul III resolved to have S.
Pietro finished, because men recognized how great a help he would have been to Antonio da San
Gallo. For, although Antonio had to his credit all that is to be seen executed by him, yet
it is believed that in company with Baldassarre he would have done more towards solving some
of the difficulties of that work. The heir to many of the possessions of Baldassarre was Sebastiano
Serlio of Bologna, who wrote the third book on architecture and the fourth on the antiquities
of Rome with their measurements; in which works the above-mentioned labours of Baldassarre
were partly inserted in the margins, and partly turned to great advantage by the author. Most
of these writings of Baldassarre came into the hands of Jacomo Melighino of Ferrara, who was
afterwards chosen by Pope Paul as architect for his buildings, and of the aforesaid Francesco
da Siena, his former assistant and disciple, by whose hand is the highly renowned escutcheon
of Cardinal Trani in Piazza Navona, with some other works. From this Francesco we received
the portrait of Baldassarre, and information about some matters which I was not able to ascertain
when this book was published for the first time. Another disciple of Baldassarre was Virgilio
Romano, who executed a façade with some prisoners in sgraffito-work in the centre of the Borgo
Nuovo in his native city, and many other beautiful works. From the same master, also, Antonio
del Rozzo, a citizen of Siena and a very excellent engineer, learnt the first principles of
architecture; and Baldassarre was followed, in like manner, by Riccio, a painter of Siena,
who, however, afterwards imitated to no small extent the manner of Giovanni Antonio Sodoma
of Vercelli. And another of his pupils was Giovan Battista Peloro, an architect of Siena, who
gave much attention to mathematics and cosmography, and made with his own hand mariner's compasses,
quadrants, many irons and instruments for measuring, and likewise the ground-plans of many
fortifications, most of which are in the possession of Maestro Giuliano, a goldsmith of Siena,
who was very much his friend. This Giovan Battista made for Duke Cosimo de' Medici a plan of
Siena, all in relief and altogether marvellous, with the valleys and the surroundings for a
mile and a half round--the walls, the streets, the forts, and, in a word, a most beautiful
model of the whole place. But, since he was unstable by nature, he left Duke Cosimo, although
he had a good allowance from that Prince; and, thinking to do better, he made his way into
France, where he followed the Court without any success for a long time, and finally died at
Avignon. And although he was an able and well-practised architect, yet in no place are there
to be seen any buildings erected by him or after his design, for he always stayed such a short
time in any one place, that he could never bring anything to completion; wherefore he consumed
all his time with designs, measurements, models, and caprices. Nevertheless, as a follower
of our arts, he has deserved to have record made of him.

Baldassarre drew very well in every manner, with great judgment and diligence, but more with
the pen, in water-colours, and in chiaroscuro, than in any other way, as may be seen from many
drawings by his hand that belong to different craftsmen. Our book, in particular, contains
various drawings; and in one of these is a scene full of invention and caprice, showing a piazza
filled with arches, colossal figures, theatres, obelisks, pyramids, temples of various kinds,
porticoes, and other things, all after the antique, while on a pedestal stands a Mercury, round
whom are all sorts of alchemists with bellows large and small, retorts, and other instruments
for distilling, hurrying about and giving him a clyster in order to purge his body--an invention
as ludicrous as it is beautiful and bizarre.

Friends and intimate companions of Baldassarre, who was always courteous, modest, and gentle
with every man, were Domenico Beccafumi of Siena, an excellent painter, and Il Capanna, who,
in addition to many other works that he painted in Siena, executed the façade of the house
of the Turchi and another that is on the Piazza.

GIOVAN FRANCESCO PENNI OF FLORENCE AND PELLEGRINO DA MODENA

LIVES OF GIOVAN FRANCESCO PENNI OF FLORENCE

[CALLED IL FATTORE]

AND OF PELLEGRINO DA MODENA

PAINTERS

Giovan Francesco Penni, called Il Fattore, a painter of Florence, was no less indebted to Fortune
than he was to the goodness of his own nature, in that his ways of life, his inclination for
painting, and his other qualities brought it about that Raffaello da Urbino took him into his
house and educated him together with Giulio Romano, looking on both of them ever afterwards
as his children, and proving at his death how much he thought both of the one and of the other
by leaving them heirs to his art and to his property alike. Now Giovan Francesco, who began
from his boyhood, when he first entered the house of Raffaello, to be called Il Fattore, and
always retained that name, imitated in his drawings the manner of Raffaello, and never ceased
to follow it, as may be perceived from some drawings by his hand that are in our book. And
it is nothing wonderful that there should be many of these to be seen, all finished with great
diligence, because he delighted much more in drawing than in colouring.

The first works of Giovan Francesco were executed by him in the Papal Loggie at Rome, in company
with Giovanni da Udine, Perino del Vaga, and other excellent masters; and in these may be seen
a marvellous grace, worthy of a master striving at perfection of workmanship. He was very versatile,
and he delighted much in making landscapes and buildings. He was a good colourist in oils,
in fresco, and in distemper, and made excellent portraits from life; and he was much assisted
in every respect by nature, so that he gained great mastery over all the secrets of art without
much study. He was a great help to Raffaello, therefore, in painting a large part of the cartoons
for the tapestries of the Pope's Chapel and of the Consistory, and particularly the ornamental
borders. He also executed many other things from the cartoons and directions of Raffaello,
such as the ceiling for Agostino Chigi in the Trastevere, with many pictures, panels, and various
other works, in which he acquitted himself so well, that every day he won greater affection
from Raffaello. On the Monte Giordano, in Rome, he painted a façade in chiaroscuro, and in
S. Maria de Anima, by the side-door that leads to the Pace, a S. Christopher in fresco, eight
braccia high, which is a very good figure; and in this work is a hermit with a lantern in his
hand, in a grotto, executed with good draughtsmanship, harmony, and grace.

Giovan Francesco then came to Florence, and painted for Lodovico Capponi at Montughi, a place
without the Porta a San Gallo, a shrine with a Madonna, which is much extolled.

Raffaello having meanwhile been overtaken by death, Giulio Romano and Giovan Francesco, who
had been his disciples, remained together for a long time, and finished in company such of
Raffaello's works as had been left unfinished, and in particular those that he had begun in
the Vigna of the Pope, and likewise those of the Great Hall in the Palace, wherein are painted
by the hands of these two masters the stories of Constantine, with excellent figures, executed
in an able and beautiful manner, although the invention and the sketches of these stories came
in part from Raffaello. While these works were in progress, Perino del Vaga, a very excellent
painter, took to wife a sister of Giovan Francesco; on which account they executed many works
in company. And afterwards Giulio and Giovan Francesco, continuing to work together, painted
a panel in two parts, containing the Assumption of Our Lady, which went to Monteluci, near
Perugia; and also other works and pictures for various places.

=. Rome: The Vatican)

Anderson]

Then, receiving a commission from Pope Clement to paint a panel-picture like the one by Raffaello
(which is in S. Pietro a Montorio), which was to be sent to France, whither Raffaello had meant
to send the first, they began it; but soon afterwards, having fallen out with each other, they
divided their inheritance of drawings and everything else left to them by Raffaello, and Giulio
went off to Mantua, where he executed an endless number of works for the Marquis. Thither,
not long afterwards, Giovan Francesco also made his way, drawn either by love of Giulio or
by the hope of finding work; but he received so cold a welcome from Giulio that he soon departed,
and, after travelling round Lombardy, he returned to Rome. And from Rome he went to Naples
by ship in the train of the Marchese del Vasto, taking with him the now finished copy of the
panel-picture of S. Pietro a Montorio, with other works, which he left in Ischia, an island
belonging to the Marquis, while the panel was placed where it is at the present day, in the
Church of S. Spirito degli Incurabili at Naples. Having thus settled in Naples, where he occupied
himself with drawing and painting, Giovan Francesco was entertained and treated with great
kindness by Tommaso Cambi, a Florentine merchant, who managed the affairs of that nobleman.
But he did not live there long, because, being of a sickly habit of body, he fell ill and died,
to the great grief of the noble Marquis and of all who knew him.

He had a brother called Luca, likewise a painter, who worked in Genoa with his brother-in-law
Perino, as well as at Lucca and many other places in Italy. In the end he went to England,
where, after executing certain works for the King and for some merchants, he finally devoted
himself to making designs for copper-plates for sending abroad, which he had engraved by Flemings.
Of such he sent abroad a great number, which are known by his name as well as by the manner;
and by his hand, among others, is a print wherein are some women in a bath, the original of
which, by the hand of Luca himself, is in our book.

A disciple of Giovan Francesco was Leonardo, called Il Pistoia because he came from that city,
who executed some works at Lucca, and made many portraits from life in Rome. At Naples, for
Diomede Caraffa, Bishop of Ariano, and now a Cardinal, he painted a panel-picture of the Stoning
of S. Stephen for his chapel in S. Domenico. And for Monte Oliveto he painted another, which
was placed on the high-altar, although it was afterwards removed to make room for a new one,
similar in subject, by the hand of Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo. Leonardo earned large sums from
these Neapolitan nobles, but he accumulated little, for he squandered it all as it came to
his hand; and finally he died in Naples, leaving behind him the reputation of having been a
good colourist, but not of having shown much excellence in draughtsmanship.

Giovan Francesco lived forty years, and his works date about 1528.

A friend of Giovan Francesco, and likewise a disciple of Raffaello, was Pellegrino da Modena,
who, having acquired in his native city the name of a man of fine genius for painting, and
having heard of the marvels of Raffaello da Urbino, determined, in order to justify by means
of labour the hopes already conceived of him, to go to Rome. Arriving there, he placed himself
under Raffaello, who never refused anything to men of ability. There were then in Rome very
many young men who were working at painting and seeking in mutual rivalry to surpass one another
in draughtsmanship, in order to win the favour of Raffaello and to gain a name among men; and
thus Pellegrino, giving unceasing attention to his studies, became not only a good draughtsman,
but also a well-practised master of the whole of his art. And when Leo X commissioned Raffaello
to paint the Loggie, Pellegrino also worked there, in company with the other young men; and
so well did he succeed, that Raffaello afterwards made use of him in many other things.

He executed three figures in fresco in S. Eustachio at Rome, over an altar near the entrance
into the church; and in the Church of the Portuguese, near the Scrofa, he painted in fresco
the Chapel of the High-Altar, as well as the altar-piece. Afterwards, Cardinal Alborense having
caused a chapel richly adorned with marbles to be erected in S. Jacopo, the Church of the Spanish
people, with a S. James of marble by Jacopo Sansovino, four braccia and a half in height, and
much extolled, Pellegrino painted there in fresco the stories of that Apostle, giving an air
of great sweetness to his figures in imitation of his master Raffaello, and designing the whole
composition so well, that the work made him known as an able man with a fine and beautiful
genius for painting. This work finished, he made many others in Rome, both by himself and in
company with others.

=. Milan: S. Maria della Passione)

Anderson]

But finally, when death had come upon Raffaello, Pellegrino returned to Modena, where he executed
many works; among others, he painted for a Confraternity of Flagellants a panel-picture in
oils of S. John baptizing Christ, and another panel for the Church of the Servi, containing
S. Cosimo and S. Damiano, with other figures. Afterwards, having taken a wife, he had a son,
who was the cause of his death. For this son, having come to words with some companions, young
men of Modena, killed one of them; the news of which being carried to Pellegrino, he, in order
to help his son from falling into the hands of justice, set out to smuggle him away. But he
had not gone far from his house, when he stumbled against the relatives of the dead youth,
who were going about searching for the murderer; and they, confronting Pellegrino, who had
no time to escape, and full of fury because they had not been able to catch his son, gave him
so many wounds that they left him dead on the ground. This event was a great grief to the people
of Modena, who knew that by the death of Pellegrino they had been robbed of a spirit truly
excellent and rare.

A contemporary of this craftsman was the Milanese Gaudenzio, a resolute, well-practised, and
excellent painter, who made many works in fresco at Milan; and in particular, for the Frati
della Passione, a most beautiful Last Supper, which remained unfinished by reason of his death.
He also painted very well in oils, and there are many highly-esteemed works by his hand at
Vercelli and Veralla.

ANDREA DEL SARTO

LIFE OF ANDREA DEL SARTO

A MOST EXCELLENT PAINTER OF FLORENCE

At length, after the Lives of many craftsmen who have been excellent, some in colouring, some
in drawing, and others in invention, we have come to the most excellent Andrea del Sarto, in
whose single person nature and art demonstrated all that painting can achieve by means of draughtsmanship,
colouring, and invention, insomuch that, if Andrea had possessed a little more fire and boldness
of spirit, to correspond to his profound genius and judgment in his art, without a doubt he
would have had no equal. But a certain timidity of spirit and a sort of humility and simplicity
in his nature made it impossible that there should be seen in him that glowing ardour and that
boldness which, added to his other qualities, would have made him truly divine in painting;
for which reason he lacked those adornments and that grandeur and abundance of manners which
have been seen in many other painters. His figures, however, for all their simplicity and purity,
are well conceived, free from errors, and absolutely perfect in every respect. The expressions
of his heads, both in children and in women, are gracious and natural, and those of men, both
young and old, admirable in their vivacity and animation; his draperies are beautiful to a
marvel, and his nudes very well conceived. And although his drawing is simple, all that he
coloured is rare and truly divine.

Andrea was born in Florence, in the year 1478, to a father who was all his life a tailor; whence
he was always called Andrea del Sarto by everyone. Having come to the age of seven, he was
taken away from his reading and writing school and apprenticed to the goldsmith's craft. But
in this he was always much more willing to practise his hand in drawing, to which he was drawn
by a natural inclination, than in using the tools for working in silver or gold; whence it
came to pass that Gian Barile, a painter of Florence, but one of gross and vulgar taste, having
seen the boy's good manner of drawing, took him under his protection, and, making him abandon
his work as goldsmith, directed him to the art of painting. Andrea, beginning with much delight
to practise it, recognized that nature had created him for that profession; and in a very short
space of time, therefore, he was doing such things with colours as filled Gian Barile and the
other craftsmen in the city with marvel. Now after three years, through continual study, he
had acquired an excellent mastery over his work, and Gian Barile saw that by persisting in
his studies the boy was likely to achieve an extraordinary success. Having therefore spoken
of him to Piero di Cosimo, who was held at that time to be one of the best painters in Florence,
he placed Andrea with Piero. And Andrea, as one full of desire to learn, laboured and studied
without ceasing; while nature, which had created him to be a painter, so wrought in him, that
he handled and managed his colours with as much grace as if he had been working for fifty years.
Wherefore Piero conceived an extraordinary love for him, feeling marvellous pleasure in hearing
that when Andrea had any time to himself, particularly on feast-days, he would spend the whole
day in company with other young men, drawing in the Sala del Papa, wherein were the cartoons
of Michelagnolo and Leonardo da Vinci, and that, young as he was, he surpassed all the other
draughtsmen, both native and foreign, who were always competing there with one another.

Among these young men, there was one who pleased Andrea more than any other with his nature
and conversation, namely, the painter Franciabigio; and Franciabigio, likewise, was attracted
by Andrea. Having become friends, therefore, Andrea said to Franciabigio that he could no longer
endure the caprices of Piero, who was now old, and that for this reason he wished to take a
room for himself. Hearing this, Franciabigio, who was obliged to do the same thing because
his master Mariotto Albertinelli had abandoned the art of painting, said to his companion Andrea
that he also was in need of a room, and that it would be to the advantage of both of them if
they were to join forces. Having therefore taken a room on the Piazza del Grano, they executed
many works in company; among others, the curtains that cover the panel-pictures on the high-altar
of the Servi; for which they received the commission from a sacristan very closely related
to Franciabigio. On one of those curtains, that which faces the choir, they painted the Annunciation
of the Virgin; and on the other, which is in front, a Deposition of Christ from the Cross,
like that of the panel-picture which was there, painted by Filippo and Pietro Perugino.

The men of that company in Florence which is called the Company of the Scalzo used to assemble
at the head of the Via Larga, above the houses of the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici, and
opposite to the garden of S. Marco, in a building dedicated to S. John the Baptist, which had
been built in those days by a number of Florentine craftsmen, who had made there, among other
things, an entrance-court of masonry with a loggia which rested on some columns of no great
size. And some of them, perceiving that Andrea was on the way to becoming known as an excellent
painter, and being richer in spirit than in pocket, determined that he should paint round that
cloister twelve pictures in chiaroscuro--that is to say, in fresco with terretta--containing
twelve scenes from the life of S. John the Baptist. Whereupon, setting his hand to this, he
painted in the first the scene of S. John baptizing Christ, with much diligence and great excellence
of manner, whereby he gained credit, honour, and fame to such an extent, that many persons
turned to him with commissions for works, as to one whom they thought to be destined in time
to reach that honourable goal which was foreshadowed by his extraordinary beginnings in his
profession.

Among other works that he made in that first manner, he painted a picture which is now in the
house of Filippo Spini, held in great veneration in memory of so able a craftsman. And not
long after this he was commissioned to paint for a chapel in S. Gallo, the Church of the Eremite
Observantines of the Order of S. Augustine, without the Porta a S. Gallo, a panel-picture of
Christ appearing in the garden to Mary Magdalene in the form of a gardener; which work, what
with the colouring and a certain quality of softness and harmony, is sweetness itself, and
so well executed, that it led to his painting two others not long afterwards for the same church,
as will be related below. This panel is now in S. Jacopo tra Fossi, on the Canto degli Alberti,
together with the two others.

After these works, Andrea and Franciabigio, leaving the Piazza del Grano, took new rooms in
the Sapienza, near the Convent of the Nunziata; whence it came about that Andrea and Jacopo
Sansovino, who was then a young man and was working at sculpture in the same place under his
master Andrea Contucci, formed so warm and so strait a friendship together, that neither by
day nor by night were they ever separated one from another. Their discussions were for the
most part on the difficulties of art, so that it is no marvel that both of them should have
afterwards become most excellent, as is now being shown of Andrea and as will be related in
the proper place of Jacopo.

There was at this same time in the Convent of the Servi, selling the candles at the counter,
a friar called Fra Mariano dal Canto alla Macine, who was also sacristan; and he heard everyone
extolling Andrea mightily and saying that he was by way of making marvellous proficience in
painting. Whereupon he planned to fulfil a desire of his own without much expense; and so,
approaching Andrea, who was a mild and guileless fellow, on the side of his honour, he began
to persuade him under the cloak of friendship that he wished to help him in a matter which
would bring him honour and profit and would make him known in such a manner, that he would
never be poor any more. Now many years before, as has been related above, Alesso Baldovinetti
had painted a Nativity of Christ in the first cloister of the Servi, on the wall that has the
Annunciation behind it; and in the same cloister, on the other side, Cosimo Rosselli had begun
a scene of S. Filippo, the founder of that Servite Order, assuming the habit. But Cosimo had
not carried that scene to completion, because death came upon him at the very moment when he
was working at it. The friar, then, being very eager to see the rest finished, thought of serving
his own ends by making Andrea and Franciabigio, who, from being friends, had become rivals
in art, compete with one another, each doing part of the work. This, besides effecting his
purpose very well, would make the expense less and their efforts greater. Thereupon, revealing
his mind to Andrea, he persuaded him to undertake that enterprise, by pointing out to him that
since it was a public and much frequented place, he would become known on account of such a
work no less by foreigners than by the Florentines; that he should not look for any payment
in return, or even for an invitation to undertake it, but should rather pray to be allowed
to do it; and that if he were not willing to set to work, there was Franciabigio, who, in order
to make himself known, had offered to accept it and to leave the matter of payment to him.
These incitements did much to make Andrea resolve to undertake the work, and the rather as
he was a man of little spirit; and the last reference to Franciabigio induced him to make up
his mind completely and to come to an agreement, in the form of a written contract, with regard
to the whole work, on the terms that no one else should have a hand in it. The friar, then,
having thus pledged him and given him money, demanded that he should begin by continuing the
life of S. Filippo, without receiving more than ten ducats from him in payment of each scene;
and he told Andrea that he was giving him even that out of his own pocket, and was doing it
more for the benefit and advantage of the painter than through any want or need of the convent.

Andrea, therefore, pursuing that work with the utmost diligence, like one who thought more
of honour than of profit, after no long time completely finished the first three scenes and
unveiled them. One was the scene of S. Filippo, now a friar, clothing the naked. In another
he is shown rebuking certain gamesters, who blasphemed God and laughed at S. Filippo, mocking
at his admonition, when suddenly there comes a lightning-flash from Heaven, which, striking
a tree under the shade of which they were sheltering, kills two of them and throws the rest
into an incredible panic. Some, with their hands to their heads, cast themselves forward in
dismay; others, crying aloud in their terror, turn to flight; a woman, beside herself with
fear at the sound of the thunder, is running away so naturally that she appears to be truly
alive; and a horse, breaking loose amid this uproar and confusion, reveals with his leaps and
fearsome movements what fear and terror are caused by things so sudden and so unexpected. In
all this one can see how carefully Andrea looked to variety of incident in the representation
of such events, with a forethought truly beautiful and most necessary for one who practises
painting. In the third he painted the scene of S. Filippo delivering a woman from evil spirits,
with all the most characteristic considerations that could be imagined in such an action. All
these scenes brought extraordinary fame and honour to Andrea; and thus encouraged, he went
on to paint two other scenes in the same cloister. On one wall is S. Filippo lying dead, with
his friars about him making lamentation; and in addition there is a dead child, who, touching
the bier on which S. Filippo lies, comes to life again, so that he is first seen dead, and
then revived and restored to life, and all with a very beautiful, natural, and appropriate
effect. In the last picture on that side he represented the friars placing the garments of
S. Filippo on the heads of certain children; and there he made a portrait of Andrea della Robbia,
the sculptor, in an old man clothed in red, who comes forward, stooping, with a staff in his
hand. There, too, he portrayed Luca, his son; even as in the other scene mentioned above, in
which S. Filippo lies dead, he made a portrait of another son of Andrea, named Girolamo, a
sculptor and very much his friend, who died not long since in France.

Having thus finished that side of the cloister, and considering that if the honour was great,
the payment was small, Andrea resolved to give up the rest of the work, however much the friar
might complain. But the latter would not release him from his bond without Andrea first promising
that he would paint two other scenes, at his own leisure and convenience, however, and with
an increase of payment; and thus they came to terms.

Having come into greater repute by reason of these works, Andrea received commissions for many
pictures and works of importance; among others, one from the General of the Monks of Vallombrosa,
for painting an arch of the vaulting, with a Last Supper on the front wall, in the Refectory
of the Monastery of S. Salvi, without the Porta alla Croce. In four medallions on that vault
he painted four figures, S. Benedict, S. Giovanni Gualberto, S. Salvi the Bishop, and S. Bernardo
degli Uberti of Florence, a friar of that Order and a Cardinal; and in the centre he made a
medallion containing three faces, which are one and the same, to represent the Trinity. All
this was very well executed for a work in fresco, and Andrea, therefore, came to be valued
at his true worth in the art of painting. Whereupon he was commissioned at the instance of
Baccio d' Agnolo to paint in fresco, in a close on the steep path of Orsanmichele, which leads
to the Mercato Nuovo, the Annunciation still to be seen there, executed on a minute scale,
which brought him but little praise; and this may have been because Andrea, who worked well
without over-exerting himself or forcing his powers, is believed to have tried in this work
to force himself and to paint with too much care.

As for the many pictures that he executed after this for Florence, it would take too long to
try to speak of them all; and I will only say that among the most distinguished may be numbered
the one that is now in the apartment of Baccio Barbadori, containing a full-length Madonna
with a Child in her arms, S. Anne, and S. Joseph, all painted in a beautiful manner and held
very dear by Baccio. He made one, likewise well worthy of praise, which is now in the possession
of Lorenzo di Domenico Borghini, and another of Our Lady for Leonardo del Giocondo, which at
the present day is in the hands of Piero, the son of Leonardo. For Carlo Ginori he painted
two of no great size, which were bought afterwards by the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici;
and one of these is now in his most beautiful villa of Campi, while the other, together with
many other modern pictures executed by the most excellent masters, is in the apartment of the
worthy son of so great a father, Signor Bernardetto, who not only esteems and honours the works
of famous craftsmen, but is also in his every action a truly generous and magnificent nobleman.

Meanwhile the Servite friar had allotted to Franciabigio one of the scenes in the above-mentioned
cloister; but that master had not yet finished making the screen, when Andrea, becoming apprehensive,
since it seemed to him that Franciabigio was an abler and more dexterous master than himself
in the handling of colours in fresco, executed, as it were out of rivalry, the cartoons for
his two scenes, which he intended to paint on the angle between the side-door of S. Bastiano
and the smaller door that leads from the cloister into the Nunziata. Having made the cartoons,
he set to work in fresco; and in the first scene he painted the Nativity of Our Lady, a composition
of figures beautifully proportioned and grouped with great grace in a room, wherein some women
who are friends and relatives of the newly delivered mother, having come to visit her, are
standing about her, all clothed in such garments as were customary at that time, and other
women of lower degree, gathered around the fire, are washing the newborn babe, while others
are preparing the swathing-bands and doing other similar services. Among them is a little boy,
full of life, who is warming himself at the fire, with an old man resting in a very natural
attitude on a couch, and likewise some women carrying food to the mother who is in bed, with
movements truly lifelike and appropriate. And all these figures, together with some little
boys who are hovering in the air and scattering flowers, are most carefully considered in their
expressions, their draperies, and every other respect, and so soft in colour, that the figures
appear to be of flesh and everything else rather real than painted.

In the other scene Andrea painted the three Magi from the East, who, guided by the Star, went
to adore the Infant Jesus Christ. He represented them dismounted, as though they were near
their destination; and that because there was only the space embracing the two doors to separate
them from the Nativity of Christ which may be seen there, by the hand of Alesso Baldovinetti.
In this scene Andrea painted the Court of those three Kings coming behind them, with baggage,
much equipment, and many people following in their train, among whom, in a corner, are three
persons portrayed from life and wearing the Florentine dress, one being Jacopo Sansovino, a
full-length figure looking straight at the spectator, while another, with an arm in foreshortening,
who is leaning against him and making a sign, is Andrea, the master of the work, and a third
head, seen in profile behind Jacopo, is that of Ajolle, the musician. There are, in addition,
some little boys who are climbing on the walls, in order to be able to see the magnificent
procession and the fantastic animals that those three Kings have brought with them. This scene
is quite equal in excellence to that mentioned above; nay, in both the one and the other he
surpassed himself, not to speak of Franciabigio, who also finished his.

At this same time Andrea painted for the Abbey of S. Godenzo, a benefice belonging to the same
friars, a panel which was held to be very well executed. And for the Friars of S. Gallo he
made a panel-picture of Our Lady receiving the Annunciation from the Angel, wherein may be
seen a very pleasing harmony of colouring, while the heads of some Angels accompanying Gabriel
show a sweet gradation of tints and a perfectly executed beauty of expression in their features;
and the predella below this picture was painted by Jacopo da Pontormo, who was a disciple of
Andrea at that time, and gave proofs at that early age that he was destined to produce afterwards
those beautiful works which he actually did execute in Florence with his own hand, although
in the end he became one might say another painter, as will be related in his Life.

Andrea then painted for Zanobi Girolami a picture with figures of no great size, wherein was
a story of Joseph, the son of Jacob, which was finished by him with unremitting diligence,
and therefore held to be a very beautiful painting. Not long after this, he undertook to execute
for the men of the Company of S. Maria della Neve, situated behind the Nunnery of S. Ambrogio,
a little panel with three figures--Our Lady, S. John the Baptist, and S. Ambrogio; which work,
when finished, was placed in due time on the altar of that Company.

Meanwhile, thanks to his talent, Andrea had become intimate with Giovanni Gaddi, afterwards
appointed Clerk of the Chamber, who, always delighting in the arts of design, was then keeping
Jacopo Sansovino continually at work. Being pleased, therefore, with the manner of Andrea,
he caused him to paint a picture of Our Lady for himself, which was very beautiful, for Andrea
painted various patterns and other ingenious devices round it, so that it was considered to
be the most beautiful work that he had executed up to that time. After this he made for Giovanni
di Paolo, the mercer, another picture of Our Lady, which, being truly lovely, gave infinite
pleasure to all who saw it. And for Andrea Santini he executed another, containing Our Lady,
Christ, S. John, and S. Joseph, all wrought with such diligence that the painting has always
been esteemed in Florence as worthy of great praise.

All these works acquired such a name for Andrea in his city, that among the many, both young
and old, who were painting at that time, he was considered one of the most excellent who were
handling brushes and colours. Wherefore he found himself not only honoured, but even, although
he exacted the most paltry prices for his labours, in a condition to do something to help and
support his family, and also to shelter himself from the annoyances and anxieties which afflict
those of us who live in poverty. But he became enamoured of a young woman, and a little time
afterwards, when she had been left a widow, he took her for his wife; and then he had more
than enough to do for the rest of his life, and much more trouble than he had suffered in the
past, for the reason that, in addition to the labours and annoyances that such entanglements
generally involve, he undertook others into the bargain, such as that of letting himself be
harassed now by jealousy, now by one thing, and now by another.

But to return to the works of his hand, which were as rare as they were numerous: after those
of which mention has been made above, he painted for a friar of S. Croce, of the Order of Minorites,
who was then Governor of the Nunnery of S. Francesco in Via Pentolini, and delighted much in
paintings, a panel-picture destined for the Church of those Nuns, of Our Lady standing on high
upon an octagonal pedestal, at the corners of which are seated some Harpies, as it were in
adoration of the Virgin; and she, using one hand to uphold her Son, who is clasping her most
tenderly round the neck with His arms, in a very beautiful attitude, is holding a closed book
in the other hand and gazing on two little naked boys, who, while helping her to stand upright,
serve as ornaments about her person. This Madonna has on her right a beautifully painted S.
Francis, in whose face may be seen the goodness and simplicity that truly belonged to that
saintly man; besides which, the feet are marvellous, and so are the draperies, because Andrea
always rounded off his figures with a very rich flow of folds and with certain most delicate
curves, in such a way as to reveal the nude below. On her left hand she has a S. John the Evangelist,
represented as a young man and in the act of writing his Gospel, in a very beautiful manner.
In this work, moreover, over the building and the figures, is a film of transparent clouds,
which appear to be really moving. This picture, among all Andrea's works, is held at the present
day to be one of singular and truly rare beauty. For the joiner Nizza, also, he made a picture
of Our Lady, which was considered to be no less beautiful than any of his other works.

After this, the Guild of Merchants determined to have some triumphal chariots made of wood
after the manner of those of the ancient Romans, to the end that these might be drawn in procession
on the morning of S. John's day, in place of certain altar-cloths and wax tapers which the
cities and townships carry in token of tribute, passing before the Duke and the chief magistrates;
and out of ten that were made at that time, Andrea painted some with scenes in oils and in
chiaroscuro, which were much extolled. But although it was proposed that some should be made
every year, until such time as every city and district had one of its own, which would have
produced a show of extraordinary magnificence, nevertheless this custom was abandoned in the
year 1527.

Now, while Andrea was adorning his city with these and other works, and his name was growing
greater every day, the men of the Company of the Scalzo resolved that he should finish the
work in their cloister, which he had formerly begun by painting the scene of the Baptism of
Christ. Having resumed that work, therefore, more willingly, he executed two scenes there,
with two very beautiful figures of Charity and Justice to adorn the door that leads into the
building of the Company. In one of these scenes he represented S. John preaching to the multitude
in a spirited attitude, lean in person, as befitted the life that he was leading, and with
an expression of countenance filled with inspiration and thoughtfulness. Marvellous, likewise,
are the variety and the vivacity of his hearers, some being shown in admiration, and all in
astonishment, at hearing that new message and a doctrine so singular and never heard before.
Even more did Andrea exert his genius in painting the same John baptizing with water a vast
number of people, some of whom are stripping off their clothes, some receiving the baptism,
and others, naked, waiting for him to finish baptizing those who are before them. In all of
them Andrea showed a vivid emotion, with a burning desire in the gestures of those who are
eager to be purified of their sins; not to mention that all the figures are so well executed
in that chiaroscuro, that the whole has the appearance of a real and most lifelike scene in marble.

I will not refrain from saying that while Andrea was employed on these and other pictures,
there appeared certain copper engravings by Albrecht Dürer, and Andrea made use of them, taking
some of the figures and transforming them into his manner. And this has caused some people,
while not saying that it is a bad thing for a man to make adroit use of the good work of others,
to believe that Andrea had not much invention.

At that time there came to Baccio Bandinelli, then a draughtsman of great repute, a desire
to learn to paint in oils. Whereupon, knowing that no man in Florence knew how to do that better
than our Andrea, he commissioned him to paint his portrait, which was a good likeness of him
at that age, as may be seen even yet; and thus, by watching him paint that work and others,
he saw his method of colouring, although afterwards, either by reason of the difficulty or
from lack of inclination, he did not pursue the use of colours, finding more satisfaction in
sculpture.

Andrea executed for Alessandro Corsini a picture of a Madonna seated on the ground with a Child
in her arms, surrounded by many little boys, which was finished with beautiful art and with
very pleasing colour; and for a mercer, much his friend, who kept a shop in Rome, he made a
most beautiful head. Giovan Battista Puccini of Florence, likewise, taking extraordinary pleasure
in the manner of Andrea, commissioned him to paint a picture of Our Lady for sending into France;
but it proved to be so fine that he kept it for himself, and would by no means send it. However,
having been asked, while transacting the affairs of his business in France, to undertake to
send choice paintings to that country, he caused Andrea to paint a picture of a Dead Christ
surrounded by some Angels, who were supporting Him and contemplating with gestures of sorrow
and compassion their Maker sunk to such a pass through the sins of the world. This work, when
finished, gave such universal satisfaction, that Andrea, urged by many entreaties, had it engraved
in Rome by the Venetian Agostino; but it did not succeed very well, and he would never again
give any of his works to be engraved. But to return to the picture: it gave no less satisfaction
in France, whither it was sent, than it had done in Florence, insomuch that the King, kindled
with even greater desire to have works by Andrea, gave orders that he should execute others;
which was the reason that Andrea, encouraged by his friends, resolved to go in a short time
to France.

But meanwhile the Florentines, hearing in the year 1515 that Pope Leo X wished to grace his
native city with his presence, ordained for his reception extraordinary festivities and a sumptuous
and magnificent spectacle, with so many arches, façades, temples, colossal figures, and other
statues and ornaments, that there had never been seen up to that time anything richer, more
gorgeous, or more beautiful; for there was then flourishing in that city a greater abundance
of fine and exalted intellects than had ever been known at any other period. At the entrance
of the Porta di S. Piero Gattolini, Jacopo di Sandro, in company with Baccio da Montelupo,
made an arch covered with historical scenes. Giuliano del Tasso made another at S. Felice in
Piazza, with some statues and the obelisk of Romulus at S. Trinità, and Trajan's Column in
the Mercato Nuovo. In the Piazza de' Signori, Antonio, the brother of Giuliano da San Gallo,
erected an octagonal temple, and Baccio Bandinelli made a Giant for the Loggia. Between the
Badia and the Palace of the Podestà there was an arch erected by Granaccio and Aristotele da
San Gallo, and Il Rosso made another on the Canto de' Bischeri with a very beautiful design
and a variety of figures. But what was admired more than everything else was the façade of
S. Maria del Fiore, made of wood, and so well decorated with various scenes in chiaroscuro
by our Andrea, that nothing more could have been desired. The architecture of this work was
by Jacopo Sansovino, as were some scenes in low-relief and many figures carved in the round;
and it was declared by the Pope that this structure--which was designed by Lorenzo de' Medici,
father of that Pontiff, when he was alive--could not have been more beautiful, even if it had
been of marble. The same Jacopo made a horse similar to the one in Rome, which was held to
be a miracle of beauty, on the Piazza di S. Maria Novella. An endless number of ornaments,
also, were executed for the Sala del Papa in the Via della Scala, and that street was half
filled with most beautiful scenes wrought by the hands of many craftsmen, but designed for
the most part by Baccio Bandinelli. Wherefore, when Leo entered Florence, on the third day
of September in the same year, this spectacle was pronounced to be the grandest that had ever
been devised, and the most beautiful.

But to return now to Andrea: being again requested to make another picture for the King of
France, in a short time he finished one wherein he painted a very beautiful Madonna, which
was sent off immediately, the merchants receiving for it four times as much as they had paid.
Now at that very time Pier Francesco Borgherini had caused to be made by Baccio d' Agnolo some
panelling, chests, chairs, and a bed, all carved in walnut-wood, for the furnishing of an apartment;
wherefore, to the end that the paintings therein might be equal in excellence to the rest of
the work, he commissioned Andrea to paint part of the scenes on these with figures of no great
size, representing the acts of Joseph the son of Jacob, in competition with some of great beauty
that had been executed by Granaccio and Jacopo da Pontormo. Andrea, then, devoting an extraordinary
amount of time and diligence to the work, strove to bring it about that they should prove to
be more perfect than those of the others mentioned above; in which he succeeded to a marvel,
for in the variety of events happening in the stories he showed how great was his worth in
the art of painting. So excellent were those scenes, that an attempt was made by Giovan Battista
della Palla, on account of the siege of Florence, to remove them from the places where they
were fixed, in order to send them to the King of France; but, since they were fixed in such
a way that it would have meant spoiling the whole work, they were left where they were, together
with a picture of Our Lady, which is held to be a very choice work.

After this Andrea executed a head of Christ, now kept by the Servite Friars on the altar of
the Nunziata, of such beauty, that I for my part do not know whether any more beautiful image
of the head of Christ could be conceived by the intellect of man. For the chapels in the Church
of S. Gallo, without the Porta S. Gallo, there had been painted, in addition to the two panel-pictures
by Andrea, a number of others, which were not equal to his; wherefore, since there was a commission
to be given for another, those friars contrived to persuade the owner of the chapel to give
it to Andrea; and he, beginning it immediately, made therein four figures standing, engaged
in a disputation about the Trinity. One of these is S. Augustine, who, robed as a Bishop and
truly African in aspect, is moving impetuously towards S. Peter Martyr, who is holding up an
open book in a proud and sublime attitude: and the head and figure of the latter are much extolled.
Beside him is a S. Francis holding a book in one hand and pressing the other against his breast;
and he appears to be expressing with his lips a glowing ardour that makes him almost melt away
in the heat of the discussion. There is also a S. Laurence, who, being young, is listening,
and seems to be yielding to the authority of the others. Below them are two figures kneeling,
one a Magdalene with most beautiful draperies, whose countenance is a portrait of Andrea's
wife; for in no place did he paint a woman's features without copying them from her, and if
perchance it happened at times that he took them from other women, yet, from his being used
to see her continually, and from the circumstance that he had drawn her so often, and, what
is more, had her impressed on his mind, it came about that almost all the heads of women that
he made resembled her. The other kneeling figure is a S. Sebastian, who, being naked, shows
his back, which appears to all who see it to be not painted, but of living flesh. And indeed,
among so many works in oils, this was held by craftsmen to be the best, for the reason that
there may be seen in it signs of careful consideration in the proportions of the figures, and
much order in the method, with a sense of fitness in the expressions of the faces, the heads
of the young showing sweetness of expression, those of the old hardness, and those of middle
age a kind of blend that inclines both to the first and to the second. In a word, this panel
is most beautiful in all its parts; and it is now to be found in S. Jacopo tra Fossi on the
Canto degli Alberti, together with others by the hand of the same master.

While Andrea was living poorly enough in Florence, engaged in these works, but without bettering
himself a whit, the two pictures that he had sent to France had been duly considered in that
country by King Francis I; and among many others which had been sent from Rome, from Venice,
and from Lombardy, they had been judged to be by far the best. The King therefore praising
them mightily, it was remarked to him that it would be an easy matter to persuade Andrea to
come to France to serve his Majesty; which news was so agreeable to the King, that he gave
orders that all that was necessary should be done, and that money for the journey should be
paid to Andrea in Florence. Andrea then set out for France with a glad heart, taking with him
his assistant Andrea Sguazzella; and, having arrived at last at the Court, they were received
by the King with great kindness and rejoicing. Before the very day of his arrival had passed
by, Andrea proved for himself how great were the courtesy and the liberality of that magnanimous
King, receiving presents of money and rich and honourable garments. Beginning to work soon
afterwards, he became so dear to the King and to all the Court, that he was treated lovingly
by everyone, and it appeared to him that his departure from his country had brought him from
one extreme of wretchedness to the other extreme of bliss. Among his first works was a portrait
from life of the Dauphin, the son of the King, born only a few months before, and still in
swaddling-clothes; and when he took this to the King, he received a present of three hundred
gold crowns. Then, continuing to work, he painted for the King a figure of Charity, which was
considered a very rare work and was held by that Sovereign in the estimation that it deserved.
After that, his Majesty granted him a liberal allowance and did all that he could to induce
Andrea to stay willingly with him, promising him that he should never want for anything; and
this because he liked Andrea's resoluteness in his work, and also the character of the man,
who was contented with everything. Moreover, giving great satisfaction to the whole Court,
he executed many pictures and various other works; and if he had kept in mind the condition
from which he had escaped and the place to which fortune had brought him, there is no doubt
that he would have risen--to say nothing of riches--to a most honourable rank. But one day,
when he was at work on a S. Jerome in Penitence for the mother of the King, there came to him
some letters from Florence, written by his wife; and he began, whatever may have been the reason,
to think of departing. He sought leave, therefore, from the King, saying that he wished to
go to Florence, but would return without fail to his Majesty after settling some affairs; and
he would bring his wife with him, in order to live more at his ease in France, and would come
back laden with pictures and sculptures of value. The King, trusting in him, gave him money
for that purpose; and Andrea swore on the Testament to return to him in a few months.

Thus, then, he arrived in Florence, and for several months blissfully took his joy of his fair
lady, his friends, and the city. And finally, the time at which he was to return having passed
by, he found in the end that what with building, taking his pleasure, and doing no work, he
had squandered all his money and likewise that of the King. Even so he wished to return, but
he was more influenced by the sighs and prayers of his wife than by his own necessities and
the pledge given to the King, so that, in order to please his wife, he did not go back; at
which the King fell into such disdain, that for a long time he would never again look with
a favourable eye on any painter from Florence, and he swore that if Andrea ever came into his
hands he would give him a very different kind of welcome, with no regard whatever for his abilities.
And thus Andrea, remaining in Florence, and sinking from the highest rung of the ladder to
the very lowest, lived and passed the time as best he could.

After Andrea's departure to France, the men of the Scalzo, thinking that he would never return,
had entrusted all the rest of the work in their cloister to Franciabigio, who had already executed
two scenes there, when, seeing Andrea back in Florence, they persuaded him to set his hand
to the work once more; and he, continuing it, painted four scenes, one beside another. In the
first is S. John taken before Herod. In the second are the Feast and the Dance of Herodias,
with figures very well grouped and appropriate. In the third is the Beheading of S. John, wherein
the minister of justice, a half-nude figure, is beautifully drawn, as are all the others. In
the fourth Herodias is presenting the head; and here there are figures expressing their astonishment,
which are wrought with most beautiful thought and care. These scenes have been for some time
the study and school of many young men who are now excellent in our arts.

In a shrine without the Porta a Pinti, at a corner where the road turns towards the Ingesuati,
he painted in fresco a Madonna seated with a Child in her arms, and a little S. John who is
smiling, a figure wrought with extraordinary art and with such perfect execution, that it is
much extolled for its beauty and vivacity; and the head of the Madonna is a portrait of his
wife from nature. This shrine, on account of the incredible beauty of the painting, which is
truly marvellous, was left standing in 1530, when, because of the siege of Florence, the aforesaid
Convent of the Ingesuati was pulled down, together with many other very beautiful buildings.

About the same time the elder Bartolommeo Panciatichi, who was carrying on a great mercantile
business in France, desiring to leave a memorial of himself in Lyons, ordered Baccio d' Agnolo
to have a panel painted for him by Andrea, and to send it to him there; saying that he wanted
the subject to be the Assumption of Our Lady, with the Apostles about the tomb. This work,
then, Andrea carried almost to completion; but since the wood of the panel split apart several
times, he would sometimes work at it, and sometimes leave it alone, so that at his death it
remained not quite finished. Afterwards it was placed by the younger Bartolommeo Panciatichi
in his house, as a work truly worthy of praise on account of the beautiful figures of the Apostles;
not to speak of the Madonna, who is surrounded by a choir of little boys standing, while certain
others are supporting her and bearing her upwards with extraordinary grace. And in the foreground
of the panel, among the Apostles, is a portrait of Andrea, so natural that it seems to be alive.
It is now at the villa of the Baroncelli, a little distance from Florence, in a small church
built by Piero Salviati near his villa to do honour to the picture.

At the head of the garden of the Servi, in two angles, Andrea painted two scenes of Christ's
Vineyard, one showing the planting, staking, and binding of the vines, and then the husbandman
summoning to the labour those who were standing idle, among whom is one who, being asked whether
he wishes to join the work, sits rubbing his hands and pondering whether he will go among the
other labourers, exactly as those idle fellows do who have but little mind to work. Even more
beautiful is the other scene, wherein the same husbandman is causing them to be paid, while
they murmur and complain, and one among them, who is counting over his money by himself, wholly
intent on examining his share, seems absolutely alive, as also does the steward who is paying
out the wages. These scenes are in chiaroscuro, and executed with extraordinary mastery in
fresco. After them he painted a Pietà, coloured in fresco, which is very beautiful, in a niche
at the head of a staircase in the noviciate of the same convent. He also painted another Pietà
in a little picture in oils, in addition to a Nativity, for the room in that convent wherein
the General, Angelo Aretino, once lived.

The same master painted for Zanobi Bracci, who much desired to have some work by his hand,
for one of his apartments, a picture of Our Lady, in which she is on her knees, leaning against
a rock, and contemplating Christ, who lies on a heap of drapery and looks up at her, smiling;
while a S. John, who stands there, is making a sign to the Madonna, as if to say that her Child
is the true Son of God. Behind these figures is a S. Joseph with his head resting on his hands,
which are lying on a rock; and he appears to be filled with joy at seeing the human race become
divine through that Birth.

Cardinal Giulio de' Medici having been commissioned by Pope Leo to see to the adorning with
stucco and paintings of the ceiling in the Great Hall of Poggio a Caiano, a palatial villa
of the Medici family, situated between Pistoia and Florence, the charge of arranging for that
work and of paying out the money was given to the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici, as to a
person who, not falling short of the standard of his ancestors, was well informed in such matters
and a loving friend to all the masters of our arts, and delighted more than any other man to
have his dwellings adorned with the works of the most excellent. Ottaviano ordained, therefore,
although the commission for the whole work had already been given to Franciabigio, that he
should have only a third, Andrea another, and Jacopo da Pontormo the last. But it was found
impossible, for all the efforts that the Magnificent Ottaviano made to urge them on, and for
all the money that he offered and even paid to them, to get the work brought to completion;
and Andrea alone finished with great diligence a scene on one wall, representing Cæsar being
presented with tribute of all kinds of animals. The drawing for this work is in our book, with
many others by his hand; it is in chiaroscuro, and is the most finished that he ever made.
In this picture Andrea, in order to surpass Franciabigio and Jacopo, subjected himself to unexampled
labour, drawing in it a magnificent perspective-view and a very masterly flight of steps, which
formed the ascent to the throne of Cæsar. And these steps he adorned with very well-designed
statues, not being content with having proved the beauty of his genius in the variety of figures
that are carrying on their backs all those different animals, such as the figure of an Indian
who is wearing a yellow coat, and carrying on his shoulders a cage drawn in perspective with
some parrots both within it and without, the whole being rarely beautiful; and such, also,
as some who are leading Indian goats, lions, giraffes, panthers, lynxes, and apes, with Moors
and other lovely things of fancy, all grouped in a beautiful manner and executed divinely well
in fresco. On these steps, also, he made a dwarf seated and holding a box containing a chameleon,
which is so well executed in all the deformity of its fantastic shape, that it is impossible
to imagine more beautiful proportions than those that he gave it. But, as has been said, this
work remained unfinished, on account of the death of Pope Leo; and although Duke Alessandro
de' Medici had a great desire that Jacopo da Pontormo should finish it, he was not able to
prevail on him to put his hand to it. And in truth it suffered a very grievous wrong in the
failure to complete it, seeing that the hall, for one in a villa, is the most beautiful in
the world.

After returning to Florence, Andrea painted a picture with a nude half-length figure of S.
John the Baptist, a very beautiful thing, which he executed at the commission of Giovan Maria
Benintendi, who presented it afterwards to the Lord Duke Cosimo.

While affairs were proceeding in this manner, Andrea, remembering sometimes his connection
with France, sighed from his heart: and if he had hoped to find pardon for the fault he had
committed, there is no doubt that he would have gone back. Indeed, to try his fortune, he sought
to see whether his talents might be helpful to him in the matter. Thus he painted a picture
of a half-naked S. John the Baptist, meaning to send it to the Grand Master of France, to the
end that he might occupy himself with restoring the painter to the favour of the King. However,
whatever may have been the reason, he never sent it after all, but sold it to the Magnificent
Ottaviano de' Medici, who always valued it much as long as he lived, even as he did two pictures
of Our Lady executed for him by Andrea in one and the same manner, which are in his house at
the present day.

Not long afterwards he was commissioned by Zanobi Bracci to paint a picture for Monsignore
di San Biause,[6] which he executed with all possible diligence, hoping that it might enable
him to regain the favour of King Francis, to whose service he desired to return. He also executed
for Lorenzo Jacopi a picture of much greater size than was usual, containing a Madonna seated
with the Child in her arms, accompanied by two other figures that are seated on some steps;
and the whole, both in drawing and in colouring, is similar to his other works. He painted
for Giovanni d' Agostino Dini, likewise, a picture of Our Lady, which is now much esteemed
for its beauty; and he made so good a portrait from life of Cosimo Lapi, that it seems absolutely
alive.

Afterwards, in the year 1523, the plague came to Florence and also to some places in the surrounding
country; and Andrea, in order to avoid that pestilence and also to do some work, went at the
instance of Antonio Brancacci to the Mugello to paint a panel for the Nuns of S. Piero a Luco,
of the Order of Camaldoli, taking with him his wife and a stepdaughter, together with his wife's
sister and an assistant. Living quietly there, then, he set his hand to the work. And since
those venerable ladies showed more and more kindness and courtesy every day to his wife, to
himself, and to the whole party, he applied himself with the greatest possible willingness
to executing that panel, in which he painted a Dead Christ mourned by Our Lady, S. John the
Evangelist, and the Magdalene, figures so lifelike, that they appear truly to have spirit and
breath. In S. John may be seen the loving tenderness of that Apostle, with affection in the
tears of the Magdalene, and bitter sorrow in the face and whole attitude of the Madonna, whose
aspect, as she gazes on Christ, who seems to be truly a real corpse and in relief, is so pitiful,
that she fills with helpless awe and bewilderment the minds of S. Peter and S. Paul, who are
contemplating the Dead Saviour of the World in the lap of His mother. From these marvellous
conceptions it is clear how much Andrea delighted in finish and perfection of art; and to tell
the truth, this panel has given more fame to that convent than all the buildings and all the
other costly works, however magnificent and extraordinary, that have been executed there.

This picture finished, Andrea, seeing that the danger of the plague was not yet past, stayed
some weeks more in the same place, where he was so well received and treated with such kindness.
During that time, in order not to be idle, he painted not only a Visitation of Our Lady to
S. Elizabeth, which is in the church, on the right hand above the Manger, serving as a crown
to a little ancient panel, but also, on a canvas of no great size, a most beautiful head of
Christ, somewhat similar to that on the altar of the Nunziata, but not so finished. This head,
which may in truth be numbered among the better works that issued from the hands of Andrea,
is now in the Monastery of the Monks of the Angeli at Florence, in the possession of that very
reverend father, Don Antonio da Pisa, who loves not only the men of excellence in our arts,
but every man of talent without exception. From this picture several copies have been taken,
for Don Silvano Razzi entrusted it to the painter Zanobi Poggini, to the end that he might
make a copy for Bartolommeo Gondi, who had asked him for one, and some others were made, which
are held in vast veneration in Florence.

In this manner, then, Andrea passed without danger the time of the plague, and those nuns received
from the genius of that great man such a work as can bear comparison with the most excellent
pictures that have been painted in our day; wherefore it is no marvel that Ramazzotto, the
captain of mercenaries of Scaricalasino, sought to obtain it on several occasions during the
siege of Florence, in order to send it to his chapel in S. Michele in Bosco at Bologna.

On his return to Florence, Andrea executed for Beccuccio da Gambassi, the glass-blower, who
was very much his friend, a panel-picture of Our Lady in the sky with the Child in her arms,
and four figures below, S. John the Baptist, S. Mary Magdalene, S. Sebastian, and S. Rocco;
and in the predella he made portraits from nature, which are most lifelike, of Beccuccio and
his wife. This panel is now at Gambassi, a township in Valdelsa, between Volterra and Florence.
For a chapel in the villa of Zanobi Bracci at Rovezzano, he painted a most beautiful picture
of Our Lady suckling a Child, with a Joseph, all executed with such diligence that they stand
out from the panel, so strong is the relief; and this picture is now in the house of M. Antonio
Bracci, the son of that Zanobi. About the same time, also, and in the above-mentioned cloister
of the Scalzo, Andrea painted two other scenes, in one of which he depicted Zacharias offering
sacrifice and being made dumb by the Angel appearing to him, while in the other is the Visitation
of Our Lady, beautiful to a marvel. And so, when he was in Rome and the moment seemed to him
to have come, he asked for it as a present from Pope Clement, who courteously granted his request.
Thereupon orders were sent to Florence to Ottaviano de' Medici, under whose care and government
were Ippolito and Alessandro, that he should have it packed up and taken to Mantua. This matter
was very displeasing to the Magnificent Ottaviano, who would never have consented to deprive
Florence of such a picture, and he marvelled that the Pope should have given it up so readily.
However, he answered that he would not fail to satisfy the Duke; but that, since the frame
was bad, he was having a new one made, and when it had been gilt he would send the picture
with every possible precaution to Mantua. This done, Messer Ottaviano, in order to "save both
the goat and the cabbage," as the saying goes, sent privately for Andrea and told him how the
matter stood, and how there was no way out of it but to make an exact copy of the picture with
the greatest care and send it to the Duke, secretly retaining the one by the hand of Raffaello.
Andrea, then, having promised to do all in his power and knowledge, caused a panel to be made
similar in size and in every respect, and painted it secretly in the house of Messer Ottaviano.
And to such purpose did he labour, that when it was finished even Messer Ottaviano, for all
his understanding in matters of art, could not tell the one from the other, nor distinguish
the real and true picture from the copy; especially as Andrea had counterfeited even the spots
of dirt, exactly as they were in the original. And so, after they had hidden the picture of
Raffaello, they sent the one by the hand of Andrea, in a similar frame, to Mantua; at which
the Duke was completely satisfied, and above all because the painter Giulio Romano, a disciple
of Raffaello, had praised it, failing to detect the trick. This Giulio would always have been
of the same opinion, and would have believed it to be by the hand of Raffaello, but for the
arrival in Mantua of Giorgio Vasari, who, having been as it were the adoptive child of Messer
Ottaviano, and having seen Andrea at work on that picture, revealed the truth. For Giulio making
much of Vasari, and showing him, after many antiquities and paintings, that picture of Raffaello's,
as the best work that was there, Giorgio said to him, "A beautiful work it is, but in no way
by the hand of Raffaello." "What?" answered Giulio. "Should I not know it, when I recognize
the very strokes that I made with my own brush?" "You have forgotten them," said Giorgio, "for
this picture is by the hand of Andrea del Sarto; and to prove it, there is a sign (to which
he pointed) that was made in Florence, because when the two were together they could not be
distinguished." Hearing this, Giulio had the picture turned round, and saw the mark; at which
he shrugged his shoulders and said these words, "I value it no less than if it were by the
hand of Raffaello--nay, even more, for it is something out of the course of nature that a man
of excellence should imitate the manner of another so well, and should make a copy so like.
It is enough that it should be known that Andrea's genius was as valiant in double harness
as in single." Thus, then, by the wise judgment of Messer Ottaviano, satisfaction was given
to the Duke without depriving Florence of so choice a work, which, having been presented to
him afterwards by Duke Alessandro, he kept in his possession for many years; and finally he
gave it to Duke Cosimo, who has it in his guardaroba together with many other famous pictures.

While Andrea was making this copy, he also painted for the same Messer Ottaviano a picture
with only the head of Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, who afterwards became Pope Clement; and this
head, which was similar to that by Raffaello, and very beautiful, was presented eventually
by Messer Ottaviano to old Bishop de' Marzi.

Not long after, Messer Baldo Magini of Prato desiring to have a most beautiful panel-picture
painted for the Madonna delle Carcere in his native city, for which he had already caused a
very handsome ornament of marble to be made, one of the many painters proposed to him was Andrea.
Wherefore Messer Baldo, having more inclination for him than for any of the others, although
he had no great understanding in such a matter, had almost given him to believe that he and
no other should do the work, when a certain Niccolò Soggi of Sansovino, who had some interest
at Prato, was suggested to Messer Baldo for the undertaking, and assisted to such purpose by
the assertion that there was not a better master to be found, that the work was given to him.
Meanwhile, Andrea's supporters sending for him, he, holding it as settled that the work was
to be his, went off to Prato with Domenico Puligo and other painters who were his friends.
Arriving there, he found that Niccolò not only had persuaded Messer Baldo to change his mind,
but also was bold and shameless enough to say to him in the presence of Messer Baldo that he
would compete with Andrea for a bet of any sum of money in painting something, the winner to
take the whole. Andrea, who knew what Niccolò was worth, answered, although he was generally
a man of little spirit, "Here is my assistant, who has not been long in our art. If you will
bet with him, I will put down the money for him; but with me you shall have no bet for any
money in the world, seeing that, if I were to beat you, it would do me no honour, and if I
were to lose, it would be the greatest possible disgrace." And, saying to Messer Baldo that
he should give the work to Niccolò, because he would execute it in such a manner as would please
the folk that went to market, he returned to Florence.

There he was commissioned to paint a panel for Pisa, divided into five pictures, which were
afterwards placed round the Madonna of S. Agnese, beside the walls of that city, between the
old Citadel and the Duomo. Making one figure, then, in each picture, he painted in two of them
S. John the Baptist and S. Peter, one on either side of the Madonna that works miracles; and
in the others are S. Catharine the Martyr, S. Agnese, and S. Margaret, each a figure by itself,
and all so beautiful as to fill with marvel anyone who beholds them, and considered to be the
most gracious and lovely women that he ever painted.

M. Jacopo, a Servite friar, in releasing and absolving a woman from a vow, had told her that
she must have a figure of Our Lady painted over the outer side of that lateral door of the
Nunziata which leads into the cloister; and therefore, finding Andrea, he said to him that
he had this money to spend, and that although it was not much it seemed to him right, since
the other works executed by Andrea in that place had brought him such fame, that he and no
other should paint this one as well. Andrea, who was nothing if not an amiable man, moved by
the persuasions of the friar and by his own desire for profit and glory, answered that he would
do it willingly; and shortly afterwards, putting his hand to the work, he painted in fresco
a most beautiful Madonna seated with her Son in her arms, and S. Joseph leaning on a sack,
with his eyes fixed upon an open book. And of such a kind was this work, in draughtsmanship,
grace, and beauty of colouring, as well as in vivacity and relief, that it proved that he outstripped
and surpassed by a great measure all the painters who had worked up to that time. Such, indeed,
is this picture, that by its own merit and without praise from any other quarter it makes itself
clearly known as amazing and most rare.

There was wanting only one scene in the cloister of the Scalzo for it to be completely finished;
wherefore Andrea, who had added grandeur to his manner after having seen the figures that Michelagnolo
had begun and partly finished for the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo, set his hand to executing this
last scene. In this, giving the final proof of his improvement, he painted the Birth of S.
John the Baptist, with figures that were very beautiful and much better and stronger in relief
than the others made by him before in the same place. Most beautiful, among others in this
work, are a woman who is carrying the newborn babe to the bed on which lies S. Elizabeth, who
is likewise a most lovely figure, and Zacharias, who is writing on a paper that he has placed
on his knee, holding it with one hand and with the other writing the name of his son, and all
with such vivacity, that he lacks nothing save the breath of life. Most beautiful, also, is
an old woman who is seated on a stool, smiling with gladness at the delivery of the other aged
woman, and revealing in her attitude and expression all that would be seen in a living person
after such an event.

Having finished that work, which is certainly well worthy of all praise, he painted for the
General of Vallombrosa a panel-picture with four very lovely figures, S. John the Baptist,
S. Giovanni Gualberto, founder of that Order, S. Michelagnolo, and S. Bernardo, a Cardinal
and a monk of the Order, with some little boys in the centre that could not be more vivacious
or more beautiful. This panel is at Vallombrosa, on the summit of a rocky height, where certain
monks live in some rooms called "the cells," separated from the others, and leading as it were
the lives of hermits.

After this he was commissioned by Giuliano Scala to paint a panel-picture, which was to be
sent to Serrazzana, of a Madonna seated with the Child in her arms, and two half-length figures
from the knees upwards, S. Celso and S. Julia, with S. Onofrio, S. Catharine, S. Benedict,
S. Anthony of Padua, S. Peter, and S. Mark; which panel was held to be equal to the other works
of Andrea. And in the hands of Giuliano Scala, in place of the balance due to him of a sum
of money that he had paid for the owners of that work, there remained a lunette containing
an Annunciation, which was to go above the panel, to complete it; and it is now in his chapel
in the great tribune round the choir of the Church of the Servi.

The Monks of S. Salvi had let many years pass by without thinking of having a beginning made
with their Last Supper, which they had commissioned Andrea to execute at the time when he painted
the arch with the four figures; but finally an Abbot, who was a man of judgment and breeding,
determined that he should finish that work. Thereupon Andrea, who had already pledged himself
to it on a previous occasion, far from making any demur, put his hand to the task, and, working
at it one piece at a time when he felt so inclined, finished it in a few months, and that in
such a manner, that the work was held to be, as it certainly is, the most spontaneous and the
most vivacious in colouring and drawing that he ever made, or that ever could be made. For,
among other things, he gave infinite grandeur, majesty, and grace to all the figures, insomuch
that I know not what to say of this Last Supper that would not be too little, it being such
that whoever sees it is struck with amazement. Wherefore it is no marvel that on account of
its excellence it was left standing amid the havoc of the siege of Florence, in the year 1529,
at which time the soldiers and destroyers, by command of those in authority, pulled down all
the suburbs without the city, and all the monasteries, hospitals, and other buildings. These
men, I say, having destroyed the Church and Campanile of S. Salvi, and beginning to throw down
part of the convent, had come to the refectory where this Last Supper is, when their leader,
seeing so marvellous a painting, of which he may have heard speak, abandoned the undertaking
and would not let any more of that place be destroyed, reserving the task until such time as
there should be no alternative.

Andrea then painted for the Company of S. Jacopo, called the Nicchio, on a banner for carrying
in processions, a S. James fondling a little boy dressed as a Flagellant by stroking him under
the chin, with another boy who has a book in his hand, executed with beautiful grace and naturalness.
He made a portrait from life of a steward of the Monks of Vallombrosa, who lived almost always
in the country on the affairs of his monastery; and this portrait was placed under a sort of
bower, in which he had made pergole and contrivances of his own in various fanciful designs,
so that it was buffeted by wind and rain, according to the pleasure of that steward, who was
the friend of Andrea. And because, when the work was finished, there were some colours and
lime left over, Andrea, taking a tile, called to his wife Lucrezia and said to her: "Come here,
for these colours are left over, and I wish to make your portrait, so that all may see how
well you have preserved your beauty even at your time of life, and yet may know how your appearance
has changed, which will make this one different from your early portraits." But the woman,
who may have had something else in her mind, would not stand still; and Andrea, as it were
from a feeling that he was near his end, took a mirror and made a portrait of himself on that
tile, of such perfection, that it seems alive and as real as nature; and that portrait is in
the possession of the same Madonna Lucrezia, who is still living.

He also portrayed a Canon of Pisa, very much his friend; and the portrait, which is lifelike
and very beautiful, is still in Pisa. He then began for the Signoria the cartoons for the paintings
to be executed on the balustrades of the Ringhiera in the Piazza, with many beautiful things
of fancy to represent the quarters of the city, and with the banners of the Consuls of the
chief Guilds supported by some little boys, and also ornaments in the form of images of all
the virtues, and likewise the most famous mountains and rivers of the dominion of Florence.
But this work, thus begun, remained unfinished on account of Andrea's death, as was also the
case with a panel--although it was all but finished--which he painted for the Abbey of the
Monks of Vallombrosa at Poppi in the Casentino. In that panel he painted an Assumption of Our
Lady, who is surrounded by many little boys, with S. Giovanni Gualberto, S. Bernardo the Cardinal
(a monk of their Order, as has been related), S. Catharine, and S. Fedele; and, unfinished
as it is, the picture is now in that Abbey of Poppi. The same happened to a panel of no great
size, which, when finished, was to have gone to Pisa. But he left completely finished a very
beautiful picture which is now in the house of Filippo Salviati, and some others.

About the same time Giovan Battista della Palla, having bought all the sculptures and pictures
of note that he could obtain, and causing copies to be made of those that he could not buy,
had despoiled Florence of a vast number of choice works, without the least scruple, in order
to furnish a suite of rooms for the King of France, which was to be richer in suchlike ornaments
than any other in the world. And this man, desiring that Andrea should return to the service
and favour of the King, commissioned him to paint two pictures. In one of these Andrea painted
Abraham in the act of trying to sacrifice his son; and that with such diligence, that it was
judged that up to that time he had never done anything better. Beautifully expressed in the
figure of the patriarch was seen that living and steadfast faith which made him ready without
a moment of dismay or hesitation to slay his own son. The same Abraham, likewise, could be
seen turning his head towards a very beautiful little angel, who appeared to be bidding him
stay his hand. I will not describe the attitude, the dress, the foot-wear, and other details
in the painting of that old man, because it is not possible to say enough of them; but this
I must say, that the boy Isaac, tender and most beautiful, was to be seen all naked, trembling
with the fear of death, and almost dead without having been struck. The same boy had only the
neck browned by the heat of the sun, and white as snow those parts that his draperies had covered
during the three days' journey. In like manner, the ram among the thorns seemed to be alive,
and Isaac's draperies on the ground rather real and natural than painted. And in addition there
were some naked servants guarding an ass that was browsing, and a landscape so well represented
that the real scene of the event could not have been more beautiful or in any way different.
This picture, having been bought by Filippo Strozzi after the death of Andrea and the capture
of Battista, was presented by him to Signor Alfonso Davalos, Marchese del Vasto, who had it
carried to the island of Ischia, near Naples, and placed in one of his apartments in company
with other most noble paintings.

In the other picture Andrea painted a very beautiful Charity, with three little boys; and this
was afterwards bought from the wife of Andrea, after his death, by the painter Domenico Conti,
who sold it later to Niccolò Antinori, who treasures it as a rare work, as indeed it is.

During this time there came to the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici, seeing from that last
picture how much Andrea had improved his manner, a desire to have a picture by his hand. Whereupon
Andrea, who was eager to serve that lord, to whom he was much indebted, because he had always
shown favour to men of lofty intellect, and particularly to painters, executed for him a picture
of Our Lady seated on the ground with the Child riding astride on her knees, while He turns
His head towards a little S. John supported by an old S. Elizabeth, a figure so natural and
so well painted that she appears to be alive, even as every other thing is wrought with incredible
diligence, draughtsmanship, and art. Having finished this picture, Andrea carried it to Messer
Ottaviano; but since that lord had something else to think about, Florence being then besieged,
he told Andrea, while thanking him profoundly and making his excuses, to dispose of it as he
thought best. To which Andrea made no reply but this: "The labour was endured for you, and
yours the work shall always be." "Sell it," answered Messer Ottaviano, "and use the money,
for I know what I am talking about." Andrea then departed and returned to his house, nor would
he ever give the picture to anyone, for all the offers that were made to him; but when the
siege was raised and the Medici back in Florence, he took it once more to Messer Ottaviano,
who accepted it right willingly, thanking him and paying him double. The work is now in the
apartment of his wife, Madonna Francesca, sister to the very reverend Salviati, who holds the
beautiful pictures left to her by her magnificent consort in no less account than she does
the duty of retaining and honouring his friends.

For Giovanni Borgherini Andrea painted another picture almost exactly like the one of Charity
mentioned above, containing a Madonna, a little S. John offering to Christ a globe that represents
the world, and a very beautiful head of S. Joseph.

There came to Paolo da Terrarossa, a friend to the whole body of painters, who had seen the
sketch for the aforesaid Abraham, a wish to have some work by the hand of Andrea. Having therefore
asked him for a copy of that Abraham, Andrea willingly obliged him and made a copy of such
a kind, that in its minuteness it was by no means inferior to the large original. Wherefore
Paolo, well satisfied with it and wishing to pay him, asked him the price, thinking that it
would cost him what it was certainly worth; but Andrea asked a mere song, and Paolo, almost
ashamed, shrugged his shoulders and gave him all that he claimed. The picture was afterwards
sent by him to Naples ...[7] and it is the most beautiful and the most highly honoured painting
in that place.

During the siege of Florence some captains had fled the city with the pay-chests; on which
account Andrea was asked to paint on the façade of the Palace of the Podestà and in the Piazza
not only those captains, but also some citizens who had fled and had been proclaimed outlaws.
He said that he would do it; but in order not to acquire, like Andrea dal Castagno, the name
of Andrea degl' Impiccati, he gave it out that he was entrusting the work to one of his assistants,
called Bernardo del Buda. However, having made a great enclosure, which he himself entered
and left by night, he executed those figures in such a manner that they appeared to be the
men themselves, real and alive. The soldiers, who were painted on the façade of the old Mercatanzia
in the Piazza, near the Condotta, were covered with whitewash many years ago, that they might
be seen no longer; and the citizens, whom he painted entirely with his own hand on the Palace
of the Podestà, were destroyed in like manner.

After this, being very intimate in these last years of his life with certain men who governed
the Company of S. Sebastiano, which is behind the Servite Convent, Andrea made for them with
his own hand a S. Sebastian from the navel upwards, so beautiful that it might well have seemed
that these were the last strokes of the brush which he was to make.

The siege being finished, Andrea was waiting for matters to mend, although with little hope
that his French project would succeed, since Giovan Battista della Palla had been taken prisoner,
when Florence became filled with soldiers and stores from the camp. Among those soldiers were
some lansquenets sick of the plague, who brought no little terror into the city and shortly
afterwards left it infected. Thereupon, either through this apprehension or through some imprudence
in eating after having suffered much privation in the siege, one day Andrea fell grievously
ill and took to his bed with death on his brow; and finding no remedy for his illness, and
being without much attention--for his wife, from fear of the plague, kept as far away from
him as she could--he died, so it is said, almost without a soul being aware of it; and he was
buried by the men of the Scalzo with scant ceremony in the Church of the Servi, near his own
house, in the place where the members of that Company are always buried.

The death of Andrea was a very great loss to the city and to art, because up to the age of
forty-two, which he attained, he went on always improving from one work to another in such
wise that, if he had lived longer, he would have continued to confer benefits on art; for the
reason that it is better to go on making progress little by little, advancing with a firm and
steady foot through the difficulties of art, than to seek to force one's intellect and nature
in a single effort. Nor is there any doubt that if Andrea had stayed in Rome when he went there
to see the works of Raffaello and Michelagnolo, and also the statues and ruins of that city,
he would have enriched his manner greatly in the composition of scenes, and would one day have
given more delicacy and greater force to his figures; which has never been thoroughly achieved
save by one who has been some time in Rome, to study those works in detail and grow familiar
with them. Having then from nature a sweet and gracious manner of drawing and great facility
and vivacity of colouring, both in fresco-work and in oils, it is believed without a doubt
that if he had stayed in Rome, he would have surpassed all the craftsmen of his time. But some
believe that he was deterred from this by the abundance of works of sculpture and painting,
both ancient and modern, that he saw in that city, and by observing the many young men, disciples
of Raffaello and of others, resolute in draughtsmanship and working confidently and without
effort, whom, like the timid fellow that he was, he did not feel it in him to excel. And so,
not trusting himself, he resolved, as the best course for him, to return to Florence; where,
reflecting little by little on what he had seen, he made such proficience that his works have
been admired and held in price, and, what is more, imitated more often after his death than
during his lifetime. Whoever has some holds them dear, and whoever has consented to sell them
has received three times as much as was paid to him, for the reason that he never received
anything but small prices for his works, both because he was timid by nature, as has been related,
and also because certain master-joiners, who were executing the best works at that time in
the houses of citizens, would never allow any commission to be given to Andrea (so as to oblige
their friends), save when they knew that he was in great straits, for at such times he would
accept any price. But this does not prevent his works from being most rare, or from being held
in very great account, and that rightly, since he was one of the best and greatest masters
who have lived even to our own day. In our book are many drawings by his hand, all good; but
in particular there is one that is altogether beautiful, of the scene that he painted at Poggio,
showing the tribute of all the animals from the East being presented to Cæsar. This drawing,
which is executed in chiaroscuro, is a rare thing, and the most finished that Andrea ever made;
for when he drew natural objects for reproduction in his works, he made mere sketches dashed
off on the spot, contenting himself with marking the character of the reality; and afterwards,
when reproducing them in his works, he brought them to perfection. His drawings, therefore,
served him rather as memoranda of what he had seen than as models from which to make exact
copies in his pictures.

The disciples of Andrea were innumerable, but they did not all pursue the same course of study
under his discipline, for some stayed with him a long time, and some but little; which was
the fault, not of Andrea, but of his wife, who, tyrannizing arrogantly over them all, and showing
no respect to a single one of them, made all their lives a burden. Among his disciples, then,
were Jacopo da Pontormo; Andrea Sguazzella, who adhered to the manner of Andrea and decorated
a palace, a work which is much extolled, without the city of Paris in France; Solosmeo; Pier
Francesco di Jacopo di Sandro, who has painted three panels that are in S. Spirito; Francesco
Salviati; Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo, who was the companion of the aforesaid Salviati, although
he did not stay long with Andrea; Jacopo del Conte of Florence; and Nannoccio, who is now in
France with Cardinal de Tournon, in the highest credit. In like manner, Jacopo, called Jacone,
was a disciple of Andrea and much his friend, and an imitator of his manner. This Jacone, while
Andrea was alive, received no little help from him, as is evident in all his works, and particularly
in the façade executed for the Chevalier Buondelmonti on the Piazza di S. Trinita.

The heir to Andrea's drawings and other art-possessions, after his death, was Domenico Conti,
who made little proficience in painting; but one night he was robbed--by some men of the same
profession, so it is thought--of all the drawings, cartoons, and other things that he had from
Andrea, nor was it ever discovered who these men were. Now Domenico, as one not ungrateful
for the benefits received from his master, and desiring to render to him after his death the
honours that he deserved, prevailed upon Raffaello da Montelupo to make for him out of courtesy
a very handsome tablet of marble, which was built into a pilaster in the Church of the Servi,
with the following epitaph, written for him by the most learned Messer Piero Vettori, then
a young man:

  ANDREÆ SARTIO
  ADMIRABILIS INGENII PICTORI, AC VETERIBUS ILLIS OMNIUM JUDICIO
  COMPARANDO,
  DOMINICUS CONTES DISCIPULUS, PRO LABORIBUS IN SE INSTITUENDO SUSCEPTIS,
  GRATO ANIMO POSUIT.
  VIXIT ANN. XLII, OB. ANN. MDXXX.

After no long time, certain citizens, Wardens of Works of that church, rather ignorant than
hostile to honoured memories, so went to work out of anger that the tablet should have been
set up in that place without their leave, that they had it removed; nor has it yet been re-erected
in any other place. Thus, perchance, Fortune sought to show that the power of the Fates prevails
not only during our lives, but also over our memorials after death. In spite of them, however,
the works and the name of Andrea are likely to live a long time, as are these my writings,
I hope, to preserve their memory for many ages.

We must conclude, then, that if Andrea showed poor spirit in the actions of his life, contenting
himself with little, this does not mean that in art he was otherwise than exalted in genius,
most resolute, and masterly in every sort of labour; and with his works, in addition to the
adornment that they confer on the places where they are, he rendered a most valuable service
to his fellow-craftsmen with regard to manner, drawing, and colouring, and that with fewer
errors than any other painter of Florence, for the reason that, as has been said above, he
understood very well the management of light and shade and how to make things recede in the
darks, and painted his pictures with a sweetness full of vivacity; not to mention that he showed
us the method of working in fresco with perfect unity and without doing much retouching on
the dry, which makes his every work appear to have been painted in a single day. Wherefore
he should serve in every place as an example to Tuscan craftsmen, and receive supreme praise
and a palm of honour among the number of their most celebrated champions.

FOOTNOTE:

[6] Jacques de Beaune.

[7] There is here a gap in the text.

MADONNA PROPERZIA DE' ROSSI

LIFE OF MADONNA PROPERZIA DE' ROSSI

SCULPTOR[8] OF BOLOGNA

It is an extraordinary thing that in all those arts and all those exercises wherein at any
time women have thought fit to play a part in real earnest, they have always become most excellent
and famous in no common way, as one might easily demonstrate by an endless number of examples.
Everyone, indeed, knows what they are all, without exception, worth in household matters; besides
which, in connection with war, likewise, it is known who were Camilla, Harpalice, Valasca,
Tomyris, Penthesilea, Molpadia, Orizia, Antiope, Hippolyta, Semiramis, Zenobia, and, finally,
Mark Antony's Fulvia, who so often took up arms, as the historian Dion tells us, to defend
her husband and herself. But in poetry, also, they have been truly marvellous, as Pausanias
relates. Corinna was very celebrated as a writer of verse, and Eustathius makes mention in
his "Catalogue of the Ships of Homer"--as does Eusebius in his book of "Chronicles"--of Sappho,
a young woman of great renown, who, in truth, although she was a woman, was yet such that she
surpassed by a great measure all the eminent writers of that age. And Varro, on his part, gives
extraordinary but well-deserved praise to Erinna, who, with her three hundred verses, challenged
the fame of the brightest light of Greece, and counterbalanced with her one small volume, called
the "Elecate," the ponderous "Iliad" of the great Homer. Aristophanes celebrates Carissena,
a votary of the same profession, as a woman of great excellence and learning; and the same
may be said for Teano, Merone, Polla, Elpe, Cornificia, and Telesilla, to the last of whom,
in honour of her marvellous talents, a most beautiful statue was set up in the Temple of Venus.

Passing by the numberless other writers of verse, do we not read that Arete was the teacher
of the learned Aristippus in the difficulties of philosophy, and that Lastheneia and Assiotea
were disciples of the divine Plato? In the art of oratory, Sempronia and Hortensia, women of
Rome, were very famous. In grammar, so Athenæus relates, Agallis was without an equal. And
as for the prediction of the future, whether we class this with astrology or with magic, it
is enough to say that Themis, Cassandra, and Manto had an extraordinary renown in their times;
as did Isis and Ceres in matters of agriculture, and the Thespiades in the whole field of the
sciences.

But in no other age, for certain, has it been possible to see this better than in our own,
wherein women have won the highest fame not only in the study of letters--as has been done
by Signora Vittoria del Vasto, Signora Veronica Gambara, Signora Caterina Anguisciuola, Schioppa,
Nugarola, Madonna Laura Battiferri, and a hundred others, all most learned as well in the vulgar
tongue as in the Latin and the Greek--but also in every other faculty. Nor have they been too
proud to set themselves with their little hands, so tender and so white, as if to wrest from
us the palm of supremacy, to manual labours, braving the roughness of marble and the unkindly
chisels, in order to attain to their desire and thereby win fame; as did, in our own day, Properzia
de' Rossi of Bologna, a young woman excellent not only in household matters, like the rest
of them, but also in sciences without number, so that all the men, to say nothing of the women,
were envious of her.

This Properzia was very beautiful in person, and played and sang in her day better than any
other woman of her city. And because she had an intellect both capricious and very ready, she
set herself to carve peach-stones, which she executed so well and with such patience, that
they were singular and marvellous to behold, not only for the subtlety of the work, but also
for the grace of the little figures that she made in them and the delicacy with which they
were distributed. And it was certainly a miracle to see on so small a thing as a peach-stone
the whole Passion of Christ, wrought in most beautiful carving, with a vast number of figures
in addition to the Apostles and the ministers of the Crucifixion. This encouraged her, since
there were decorations to be made for the three doors of the first façade of S. Petronio all
in figures of marble, to ask the Wardens of Works, by means of her husband, for a part of that
work; at which they were quite content, on the condition that she should let them see some
work in marble executed by her own hand. Whereupon she straightway made for Count Alessandro
de' Peppoli a portrait from life in the finest marble, representing his father, Count Guido,
which gave infinite pleasure not only to them, but also to the whole city; and the Wardens
of Works, therefore, did not fail to allot a part of the work to her. In this, to the vast
delight of all Bologna, she made an exquisite scene, wherein--because at that time the poor
woman was madly enamoured of a handsome young man, who seemed to care but little for her--she
represented the wife of Pharaoh's Chamberlain, who, burning with love for Joseph, and almost
in despair after so much persuasion, finally strips his garment from him with a womanly grace
that defies description. This work was esteemed by all to be most beautiful, and it was a great
satisfaction to herself, thinking that with this illustration from the Old Testament she had
partly quenched the raging fire of her own passion. Nor would she ever do any more work in
connection with that building, although there was no person who did not beseech her that she
should go on with it, save only Maestro Amico, who out of envy always dissuaded her and went
so far with his malignity, ever speaking ill of her to the Wardens, that she was paid a most
beggarly price for her work.

She also made two angels in very strong relief and beautiful proportions, which may now be
seen, although against her wish, in the same building. In the end she devoted herself to copper-plate
engraving, which she did without reproach, gaining the highest praise. And so the poor love-stricken
young woman came to succeed most perfectly in everything, save in her unhappy passion.

The fame of an intellect so noble and so exalted spread throughout all Italy, and finally came
to the ears of Pope Clement VII, who, immediately after he had crowned the Emperor in Bologna,
made inquiries after her; but he found that the poor woman had died that very week, and had
been buried in the Della Morte Hospital, as she had directed in her last testament. At which
the Pope, who was eager to see her, felt much sorrow at her death; but more bitter even was
it for her fellow-citizens, who regarded her during her lifetime as one of the greatest miracles
produced by nature in our days.

In our book are some very good drawings by the hand of this Properzia, done with the pen and
copied from the works of Raffaello da Urbino; and her portrait was given to me by certain painters
who were very much her friends.

But, although Properzia drew very well, there have not been wanting women not only to equal
her in drawing, but also to do as good work in painting as she did in sculpture. Of these the
first is Sister Plautilla, a nun and now Prioress in the Convent of S. Caterina da Siena, on
the Piazza di S. Marco in Florence. She, beginning little by little to draw and to imitate
in colours pictures and paintings by excellent masters, has executed some works with such diligence,
that she has caused the craftsmen to marvel. By her hand are two panels in the Church of that
Convent of S. Caterina, of which the one with the Magi adoring Jesus is much extolled. In the
choir of the Convent of S. Lucia, at Pistoia, there is a large panel, containing Our Lady with
the Child in her arms, S. Thomas, S. Augustine, S. Mary Magdalene, S. Catherine of Siena, S.
Agnese, S. Catherine the Martyr, and S. Lucia; and another large panel by the same hand was
sent abroad by the Director of the Hospital of Lelmo. In the refectory of the aforesaid Convent
of S. Caterina there is a great Last Supper, with a panel in the work-room, both by the hand
of the same nun. And in the houses of gentlemen throughout Florence there are so many pictures,
that it would be tedious to attempt to speak of them all. A large picture of the Annunciation
belongs to the wife of the Spaniard, Signor Mondragone, and Madonna Marietta de' Fedini has
another like it. There is a little picture of Our Lady in S. Giovannino, at Florence; and an
altar-predella in S. Maria del Fiore, containing very beautiful scenes from the life of S.
Zanobi. And because this venerable and talented sister, before executing panels and works of
importance, gave attention to painting in miniature, there are in the possession of various
people many wonderfully beautiful little pictures by her hand, of which there is no need to
make mention. The best works from her hand are those that she has copied from others, wherein
she shows that she would have done marvellous things if she had enjoyed, as men do, advantages
for studying, devoting herself to drawing, and copying living and natural objects. And that
this is true is seen clearly from a picture of the Nativity of Christ, copied from one which
Bronzino once painted for Filippo Salviati. In like manner, the truth of such an opinion is
proved by this, that in her works the faces and features of women, whom she has been able to
see as much as she pleased, are no little better than the heads of the men, and much nearer
to the reality. In the faces of women in some of her works she has portrayed Madonna Costanza
de' Doni, who has been in our time an unexampled pattern of beauty and dignity; painting her
so well, that it is impossible to expect more from a woman who, for the reasons mentioned above,
has had no great practice in her art.

With much credit to herself, likewise, has Madonna Lucrezia, the daughter of Messer Alfonso
Quistelli della Mirandola, and now the wife of Count Clemente Pietra, occupied herself with
drawing and painting, as she still does, after having been taught by Alessandro Allori, the
pupil of Bronzino; as may be seen from many pictures and portraits executed by her hand, which
are worthy to be praised by all. But Sofonisba of Cremona, the daughter of Messer Amilcaro
Anguisciuola, has laboured at the difficulties of design with greater study and better grace
than any other woman of our time, and she has not only succeeded in drawing, colouring, and
copying from nature, and in making excellent copies of works by other hands, but has also executed
by herself alone some very choice and beautiful works of painting. Wherefore she well deserved
that King Philip of Spain, having heard of her merits and abilities from the Lord Duke of Alba,
should have sent for her and caused her to be escorted in great honour to Spain, where he keeps
her with a rich allowance about the person of the Queen, to the admiration of all that Court,
which reveres the excellence of Sofonisba as a miracle. And it is no long time since Messer
Tommaso Cavalieri, a Roman gentleman, sent to the Lord Duke Cosimo (in addition to a drawing
by the hand of the divine Michelagnolo, wherein is a Cleopatra) another drawing by the hand
of Sofonisba, containing a little girl laughing at a boy who is weeping because one of the
cray-fish out of a basket full of them, which she has placed in front of him, is biting his
finger; and there is nothing more graceful to be seen than that drawing, or more true to nature.
Wherefore, in memory of the talent of Sofonisba, who lives in Spain, so that Italy has no abundance
of her works, I have placed it in my book of drawings.

And let this be the end of the Life of Properzia, sculptor of Bologna.

FOOTNOTE:

[8] The translator is unwilling to use the somewhat ugly word "sculptress." Some of these are
still to be seen, white in colour and made of wax or stucco, and bear witness to the fine intellect
and judgment that he possessed; such as those of Prince Doria, of Duke Alfonso of Ferrara,
of Clement VII, of the Emperor Charles V, of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici, of Bembo, of Ariosto,
and of other suchlike personages. Finding himself in Bologna at the coronation of Charles V,
he executed the decorations of the door of S. Petronio as a part of the preparations for that
festival; and he had come into such repute through being the first to introduce the good method
of making portraits from life in the form of medals, as has been related, that there was not
a single man of distinction in those Courts for whom he did not execute some work, to his own
great profit and honour. But, not being content with the gain and the glory that came to him
from making works in clay, in wax, and in stucco, he set himself to work in marble; and such
was the proficience that he showed in some things that he made, although these were of little
importance, that he was commissioned to execute the tomb of Ramazzotto, which brought him very
great fame and honour, in S. Michele in Bosco, without Bologna. After that work he made some
little scenes of marble in half-relief on the predella of the altar at the tomb of S. Dominic,
in the same city. And for the door of S. Petronio, also, on the left hand of the entrance into
the church, he executed some little scenes in marble, containing a very beautiful Resurrection
of Christ. But what pleased the people of Bologna most of all was the Death of Our Lady, wrought
with a very hard mixture of clay and stucco, with figures in full-relief, in an upper room
of the Della Vita Hospital; and marvellous, among other things in that work, is the Jew who
leaves his hands fixed to the bier of the Madonna. With the same mixture, also, he made a large
Hercules with the dead Hydra under his feet, for the upper room of the Governor in the Palazzo
Pubblico of that city; which statue was executed in competition with Zaccaria da Volterra,
who was greatly surpassed by the ability and excellence of Alfonso. For the Madonna del Baracane
the same master made two Angels in stucco, who are upholding a canopy in half-relief; and in
some medallions in the middle aisle of S. Giuseppe, between one arch and another, he made the
twelve Apostles from the waist upwards, of terra-cotta and in full-relief. In terra-cotta,
likewise, for the corners of the vaulting of the Madonna del Popolo in the same city, he executed
four figures larger than life; namely, S. Petronio, S. Procolo, S. Francis, and S. Dominic,
figures which are all very beautiful and grand in manner. And by the hand of the same man are
some works in stucco at Castel Bolognese, and some others in the Company of S. Giovanni at Cesena.

Let no one marvel that hitherto our account of this master has dealt with scarcely any work
save in clay, wax, and stucco, and very little in marble, because--besides the fact that Alfonso
was always inclined to that sort of work--after passing a certain age, being very handsome
in person and youthful in appearance, he practised art more for pleasure and to satisfy his
own vanity than with any desire to set himself to chisel stone. He used always to wear on his
arms, on his neck, and in his clothing, ornaments of gold and suchlike fripperies, which showed
him to be rather a courtier, vain and wanton, than a craftsman desirous of glory. Of a truth,
just as such ornaments enhance the splendour of those to whom, on account of their wealth,
high estate, and noble blood, they are becoming, so are they worthy of reproach in craftsmen
and others, who should not measure themselves, some for one reason and some for another, with
the rich, seeing that such persons, in place of being praised, are held in less esteem by men
of judgment, and often laughed to scorn. Now Alfonso, charmed with himself and indulging in
expressions and wanton excesses little worthy of a good craftsman, on one occasion robbed himself
through this behaviour of all the glory that he had won by labouring at his profession. For
one evening, chancing to be at a wedding in the house of a Count in Bologna, and having made
love for some time to a lady of quality, he had the luck to be invited by her to dance the
torch-dance; whereupon, whirling round with her, and overcome by the frenzy of his passion,
he said with a trembling voice, sighing deeply, and gazing at his lady with eyes full of tenderness:
"S'amor non è, che dunque è quel ch' io sento?"[9] Hearing this, the lady, who had a shrewd
wit, answered, in order to show him his error: "A louse, perhaps." Which answer was heard by
many, so that the saying ran through all Bologna, and he was held to scorn ever afterwards.
Truly, if Alfonso had given his attention not to the vanities of the world, but to the labours
of art, without a doubt he would have produced marvellous works; for if he achieved this in
part without exerting himself much, what would he have done if he had faced the dust and heat?

The aforesaid Emperor Charles V being in Bologna, and the most excellent Tiziano da Cadore
having come to make a portrait of his Majesty, Alfonso likewise was seized with a desire to
execute a portrait of that Sovereign. And having no other means of contriving to do that, he
besought Tiziano, without revealing to him what he had in mind, that he should do him the favour
of introducing him, in the place of one of those who used to carry his colours, into the presence
of his Majesty. Wherefore Tiziano, who loved him much, like the truly courteous man that he
has always been, took Alfonso with him into the apartments of the Emperor. Alfonso, as soon
as Tiziano had settled down to work, took up a position behind him, in such a way that he could
not be seen by the other, who was wholly intent on his portrait; and, taking up a little box
in the shape of a medallion, he made therein a portrait of the Emperor in stucco, and had it
finished at the very moment when Tiziano had likewise brought his picture to completion. The
Emperor then rising, Alfonso closed the box and had already hidden it in his sleeve, to the
end that Tiziano might not see it, when his Majesty said to him: "Show me what you have done."
He was thus forced to give his portrait humbly into the hand of the Emperor, who, having examined
it and praised it highly, said to him: "Would you have the courage to do it in marble?" "Yes,
your sacred Majesty," answered Alfonso. "Do it, then," added the Emperor, "and bring it to
me in Genoa." How unusual this proceeding must have seemed to Tiziano every man may imagine
for himself. For my part, I believe that it must have appeared to him that he had compromised
his credit. But what must have seemed to him most strange was this, that when his Majesty sent
a present of a thousand crowns to Tiziano, he bade him give the half, or five hundred crowns,
to Alfonso, keeping the other five hundred for himself, at which it is likely enough that Tiziano
felt aggrieved. Alfonso, then, setting to work with the greatest zeal in his power, brought
the marble head to completion with such diligence, that it was pronounced to be a very fine
thing: which was the reason that, when he had taken it to the Emperor, his Majesty ordered
that three hundred crowns more should be given to him.

Alfonso having come into great repute through the gifts and praises bestowed on him by the
Emperor, Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici took him to Rome, where he kept many sculptors and painters
about his person, in addition to a vast number of other men of ability; and he commissioned
him to make a copy in marble of a very famous antique head of the Emperor Vitellius. In that
work Alfonso justified the opinion held of him by the Cardinal and by all Rome, and he was
charged by the same patron to make a portrait-bust in marble of Pope Clement VII, after the
life, and shortly afterwards one of Giuliano de' Medici, father of the Cardinal; but the latter
was left not quite finished. These heads were afterwards sold in Rome, and bought by me at
the request of the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici, together with some pictures; and in our
own day they have been placed by the Lord Duke Cosimo de' Medici in that hall of the new apartments
of his palace wherein I have painted, on the ceiling and the walls, all the stories of Pope
Leo X; they have been placed, I say, in that hall, over the doors made of that red veined marble
which is found near Florence, in company with the heads of other illustrious men of the house
of Medici.

But returning to Alfonso; he then went on to execute many works in sculpture for the same Cardinal,
but these, being small things, have disappeared. After the death of Clement, when a tomb had
to be made for him and also for Leo, the work was allotted by Cardinal de' Medici to Alfonso;
whereupon he made a model with figures of wax, which was held to be very beautiful, after some
sketches by Michelagnolo Buonarroti, and went off to Carrara with money to have the marble
quarried. But not long afterwards the Cardinal, having departed from Rome on his way to Africa,
died at Itri, and the work slipped out of the hands of Alfonso, because he was dismissed by
its executors, Cardinals Salviati, Ridolfi, Pucci, Cibo, and Gaddi, and it was entrusted by
the favour of Madonna Lucrezia Salviati, daughter of the great Lorenzo de' Medici, the elder,
and sister of Leo, to Baccio Bandinelli, a sculptor of Florence, who had made models for it
during the lifetime of Clement.

For this reason Alfonso, thus knocked off his high horse and almost beside himself, determined
to return to Bologna; and, having arrived in Florence, he presented to Duke Alessandro a most
beautiful head in marble of the Emperor Charles V, which is now in Carrara, whither it was
sent by Cardinal Cibo, who removed it after the death of Duke Alessandro from the guardaroba
of that Prince. The Duke, when Alfonso arrived in Florence, was in the humour to have his portrait
taken; for it had already been done on medals by Domenico di Polo, a gem-engraver, and by Francesco
di Girolamo dal Prato, for the coinage by Benvenuto Cellini, and in painting by Giorgio Vasari
of Arezzo and Jacopo da Pontormo, and he wished that Alfonso should likewise portray him. Wherefore
he made a very beautiful portrait of him in relief, much better than the one executed by Danese
da Carrara, and then, since he was wholly set on going to Bologna, he was given the means to
make one there in marble, after the model. And so, having received many gifts and favours from
Duke Alessandro, Alfonso returned to Bologna, where, being still far from content on account
of the death of the Cardinal, and sorely vexed by the loss of the tombs, there came upon him
a pestilent and incurable disease of the skin, which wasted him away little by little, until,
having reached the age of forty-nine, he passed to a better life, never ceasing to rail at
Fortune, which had robbed him of a patron to whom he might have looked for all the blessings
which could make him happy in this life, and saying that she should have closed his own eyes,
since she had reduced him to such misery, rather than those of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici.
Alfonso died in the year 1536.

Michelagnolo, a sculptor of Siena, after he had spent the best years of his life in Sclavonia
with other excellent sculptors, made his way to Rome on the following occasion. After the death
of Pope Adrian, Cardinal Hincfort, who had been the friend and favourite of that Pontiff, determined,
as one not ungrateful for the benefits received from him, to erect to him a tomb of marble;
and he gave the charge of this to Baldassarre Peruzzi, the painter of Siena. And that master,
having made the model, desired that the sculptor Michelagnolo, his friend and compatriot, should
undertake the work on his own account. Michelagnolo, therefore, made on that tomb a lifesize
figure of Pope Adrian, lying upon the sarcophagus and portrayed from nature, with a scene,
also in marble, below him, showing his arrival in Rome and the Roman people going to meet him
and to do him homage. Around the tomb, moreover, in four niches, are four Virtues in marble,
Justice, Fortitude, Peace, and Prudence, all executed with much diligence by the hand of Michelagnolo
after the counsel of Baldassarre. It is true, indeed, that some of the things that are in this
work were wrought by the Florentine sculptor, Tribolo, then a very young man, and these were
considered the best of all; but Michelagnolo executed the minor details of the work with supreme
diligence and subtlety, and the little figures that are in it deserve to be extolled more than
all the rest. Among other things, there are some variegated marbles wrought with a high finish,
and put together so well that nothing more could be desired. For these labours Michelagnolo
received a just and honourable reward from the aforesaid Cardinal, and was treated with much
favour by him for the rest of his life; and, in truth, with right good reason, seeing that
this tomb and the Cardinal's gratitude have done as much to bring fame to him as did the work
to give a name to Michelagnolo in his lifetime and renown after his death. This work finished,
no long time elapsed before Michelagnolo passed from this life to the next, at about the age
of fifty.

Girolamo Santa Croce of Naples, although he was snatched from us by death in the very prime
of life, at a time when greater things were looked for from him, yet showed in the works of
sculpture that he made at Naples during his few years, what he would have done if he had lived
longer; for the works that he executed in sculpture at Naples were wrought and finished with
all the lovingness that could be desired in a young man who wishes to surpass by a great measure
those who for many years before his day have held the sovereignty in some noble profession.
In S. Giovanni Carbonaro at Naples he built the Chapel of the Marchese di Vico, which is a
round temple, partitioned by columns and niches, with some tombs carved with much diligence.
And because the altar-piece of this chapel, made of marble in half-relief and representing
the Magi bringing their offerings to Christ, is by the hand of a Spaniard, Girolamo executed
in emulation of this work a S. John in a niche, so beautifully wrought in full-relief, that
it showed that he was not inferior to the Spaniard either in courage or in judgment; on which
account he won such a name, that, although Giovanni da Nola was held in Naples to be a marvellous
sculptor and better than any other, nevertheless Girolamo worked in competition with him as
long as he lived, notwithstanding that his rival was now old and had executed a vast number
of works in that city, where it is much the custom to make chapels and altar-pieces of marble.
Competing with Giovanni, then, Girolamo undertook to execute a chapel in Monte Oliveto at Naples,
just within the door of the church, on the left hand, while Giovanni executed another opposite
to his, on the other side, in the same style. In his chapel Girolamo made a lifesize Madonna
in the round, which is held to be a very beautiful figure; and since he took infinite pains
in executing the draperies and the hands, and in giving bold relief to the marble by undercutting,
he brought it to such perfection that it was the general opinion that he had surpassed all
those who had handled tools for working marble at Naples in his time. This Madonna he placed
between a S. John and a S. Peter, figures very well conceived and executed, and finished in
a beautiful manner, as are also some children which are placed above them.

In addition to these, he made two large and most beautiful statues in full-relief for the Church
of Capella, a seat of the Monks of Monte Oliveto. He then began a statue of the Emperor Charles
V, at the time of his return from Tunis; but after he had blocked it and carved it with the
pointed chisel, and even in some places with the broad-toothed chisel, it remained unfinished,
because fortune and death, envying the world such excellence, snatched him from us at the age
of thirty-five. It was confidently expected that Girolamo, if he had lived, even as he had
outstripped all his compatriots in his profession, would also have surpassed all the craftsmen
of his time. Wherefore his death was a grievous blow to the Neapolitans, and all the more because
he had been endowed by nature not only with a most beautiful genius, but also with as much
modesty, sweetness, and gentleness as could be looked for in mortal man; so that it is no marvel
if all those who knew him are not able to restrain their tears when they speak of him. His
last sculptures were executed in 1537, in which year he was buried at Naples with most honourable
obsequies.

Old as he was, Giovanni da Nola, who was a well-practised sculptor, as may be seen from many
works made by him at Naples with good skill of hand, but not with much design, still remained
alive. Him Don Pedro di Toledo, Marquis of Villafranca, and at that time Viceroy of Naples,
commissioned to execute a tomb of marble for himself and his wife; and therein Giovanni made
a great number of scenes of the victories obtained by that lord over the Turks, with many statues
for the same work, which stands quite by itself, and was executed with much diligence. This
tomb was to have been taken to Spain; but, since that nobleman did not do this while he was
alive, it remained in Naples. Giovanni died at the age of seventy, and was buried in Naples,
in the year 1558.

About the same time that Heaven presented to Ferrara, or rather, to the world, the divine Lodovico
Ariosto, there was born in the same city the painter Dosso, who, although he was not as rare
among painters as Ariosto among poets, nevertheless acquitted himself in his art in such a
manner, that, besides the great esteem wherein his works were held in Ferrara, his merits caused
the learned poet, his intimate friend, to honour his memory by mentioning him in his most celebrated
writings; so that the pen of Messer Lodovico has given more renown to the name of Dosso than
did all the brushes and colours that he used in the whole of his life. Wherefore I, for my
part, declare that there could be no greater good-fortune than that of those who are celebrated
by such great men, since the might of the pen forces most of mankind to accept their fame,
even though they may not wholly deserve it.

Dosso was much beloved by Duke Alfonso of Ferrara: first for his good abilities in the art
of painting, and then because he was a very pleasant and amiable person--a manner of man in
whom the Duke greatly delighted. Dosso had the reputation in Lombardy of executing landscapes
better than any other painter engaged in that branch of the profession, whether in mural painting,
in oils, or in gouache; and all the more after the German manner became known. In Ferrara,
for the Cathedral Church, he executed a panel-picture with figures in oils, which was held
to be passing beautiful; and in the Duke's Palace he painted many rooms, in company with a
brother of his, called Battista. These two were always enemies, one against the other, although
they worked together by the wish of the Duke. In the court of the said palace they executed
stories of Hercules in chiaroscuro, with an endless number of nudes on those walls; and in
like manner they painted many works on panel and in fresco throughout all Ferrara. By their
hands is a panel in the Duomo of Modena; and they painted many things in the Cardinal's Palace
at Trento, in company with other painters.

At this same time the painter and architect, Girolamo Genga, was executing various decorations
in the Imperiale Palace, above Pesaro, as will be related in the proper place, for Duke Francesco
Maria of Urbino; and among the number of painters who were summoned to that work by order of
the same Signor Francesco Maria, invitations were sent to Dosso and Battista of Ferrara, principally
for the painting of landscapes; many paintings having been executed long before in that palace
by Francesco di Mirozzo[10] of Forlì, Raffaello dal Colle of Borgo a San Sepolcro, and many
others. Now, having arrived at the Imperiale, Dosso and Battista, according to the custom of
men of their kidney, found fault with most of the paintings that they saw, and promised the
Duke that they would do much better work; and Genga, who was a shrewd person, seeing how the
matter was likely to end, gave them an apartment to paint by themselves. Thereupon, setting
to work, they strove with all labour and diligence to display their worth; but, whatever may
have been the reason, never in all the course of their lives did they do any work less worthy
of praise, or rather, worse, than that one. It seems often to happen, indeed, that in their
greatest emergencies, when most is expected of them, men become blinded and bewildered in judgment,
and do worse work than at any other time; which may result, perchance, from their own malign
and evil disposition to be always finding fault with the works of others, or from their seeking
to force their genius overmuch, seeing that to proceed step by step according to the ruling
of nature, yet without neglecting diligence and study, appears to be a better method than seeking
to wrest from the brain, as it were by force, things that are not there; and it is a fact that
in the other arts as well, but above all in that of writing, lack of spontaneity is only too
easily recognized, and also, so to speak, over-elaboration in everything.

Now, when the work of the Dossi was unveiled, it proved to be so ridiculous that they left
the service of the Duke in disgrace; and he was forced to throw to the ground all that they
had executed, and to have it repainted by others after the designs of Genga.

Finally, they painted a very beautiful panel-picture in the Duomo of Faenza for the Chevalier,
M. Giovan Battista de' Buosi, of Christ disputing in the Temple; in which work they surpassed
themselves, by reason of the new manner that they used, and particularly in the portraits of
that Chevalier and of others. That picture was set up in that place in the year 1536. Ultimately
Dosso, having grown old, spent his last years without working, being pensioned until the close
of his life by Duke Alfonso. And in the end Battista survived him, executing many works by
himself, and maintaining himself in a good condition. Dosso was buried in his native city of
Ferrara.

There lived in the same times the Milanese Bernazzano, a very excellent painter of landscapes,
herbage, animals, and other things of earth, air, and water. And since, as one who knew himself
to have little aptitude for figures, he did not give much attention to them, he associated
himself with Cesare da Sesto, who painted them very well and in a beautiful manner. It is said
that Bernazzano executed in a courtyard some very beautiful landscapes in fresco, in which
he painted a strawberry-bed full of strawberries, ripe, green, and in blossom, and so well
imitated, that some peacocks, deceived by their natural appearance, were so persistent in picking
at them as to make holes in the plaster.

FOOTNOTE:

[9] "What is it that I feel, if it is not love?"

[10] This seems to be an error for Melozzo.

GIOVANNI ANTONIO LICINIO OF PORDENONE, AND OTHER PAINTERS OF FRIULI

LIVES OF GIOVANNI ANTONIO LICINIO OF PORDENONE, AND OF OTHER PAINTERS OF FRIULI

It would seem, as has been remarked already in the same connection, that Nature, the kindly
mother of the universe, sometimes presents the rarest things to certain places that never had
any knowledge of such gifts, and that at times she creates in some country men so much inclined
to design and to painting, that, without masters, but only by imitating living and natural
objects, they become most excellent. And it also happens very often that when one man has begun,
many set themselves to work in competition with him, and labour to such purpose, without seeing
Rome, Florence, or any other place full of notable pictures, but merely through rivalry one
with another, that marvellous works are seen to issue from their hands. All this may be seen
to have happened more particularly in Friuli, where, in our own day, in consequence of such
a beginning, there has been a vast number of excellent painters--a thing which had not occurred
in those parts for many centuries.

While Giovanni Bellini was working in Venice and teaching his art to many, as has been related,
he had two disciples who were rivals one with another--Pellegrino da Udine, who, as will be
told, was afterwards called Da San Daniele, and Giovanni Martini of Udine. Let us begin, then,
by speaking of Giovanni. He always imitated the manner of Bellini, which was somewhat crude,
hard, and dry; nor was he ever able to give it sweetness or softness, although he was a diligent
and finished painter. This may have happened because he was always making trial of certain
reflections, half-lights, and shadows, with which, cutting the relief in the middle, he contrived
to define light and shade very abruptly, in such a way that the colouring of all his works
was always crude and unpleasant, although he strove laboriously with his art to imitate Nature.
By the hand of this master are numerous works in many places in Friuli, particularly in the
city of Udine, in the Duomo of which there is a panel-picture executed in oils, of S. Mark
seated with many figures round him, which is held to be the best of all that he ever painted.
There is another on the altar of S. Ursula in the Church of the Friars of S. Pietro Martire,
wherein the first-mentioned Saint is standing with some of her virgins round her, all painted
with much grace and beautiful expressions of countenance. This Giovanni, besides being a passing
good painter, was endowed by Nature with beauty and grace of features and an excellent character,
and, what is most desirable, with such foresight and power of management, that, after his death,
in default of heirs male, he left an inheritance of much property to his wife. And she, being,
so I have heard, a lady as shrewd as she was beautiful, knew so well how to manage her life
after the death of her husband, that she married two very beautiful daughters into the richest
and most noble houses of Udine.

Pellegrino da San Daniele, who was a rival of Giovanni, as has been related, and a man of greater
excellence in painting, received at baptism the name of Martino. But Giovanni Bellini, judging
that he was destined to become, as he afterwards did, a truly rare master of art, changed his
name from Martino to Pellegrino.[11] And even as his name was changed, so he may be said by
chance to have changed his country, since, living by preference at San Daniele, a township
ten miles distant from Udine, and spending most of his time in that place, where he had taken
a wife, he was called ever afterwards not Martino da Udine, but Pellegrino da San Daniele.
He painted many pictures in Udine, and some may still be seen on the doors of the old organ,
on the outer side of which is painted a sunken arch in perspective, containing a S. Peter seated
among a multitude of figures and handing a pastoral staff to S. Ermacora the Bishop. On the
inner side of the same doors, likewise, in some niches, he painted the four Doctors of the
Church in the act of studying. For the Chapel of S. Giuseppe he executed a panel-picture in
oils, drawn and coloured with much diligence, in the middle of which is S. Joseph standing
in a beautiful attitude, with an air of dignity, and beside him is Our Lord as a little Child,
while S. John the Baptist is below in the garb of a little shepherd-boy, gazing intently on
his Master. And since this picture is much extolled, we may believe what is said of it--namely,
that he painted it in competition with the aforesaid Giovanni, and that he put forward every
effort to make it, as it proved to be, more beautiful than that which Giovanni painted of S.
Mark, as has been related above. Pellegrino also painted at Udine, for the house of Messer
Pre Giovanni, intendant to the illustrious Signori della Torre, a picture of Judith from the
waist upwards, with the head of Holofernes in one hand, which is a very beautiful work. By
the hand of the same man is a large panel in oils, divided into several pictures, which may
be seen on the high-altar of the Church of S. Maria in the town of Civitale, at a distance
of eight miles from Udine; and in it are some heads of virgins and other figures with great
beauty of expression. And in his township of San Daniele, in a chapel of S. Antonio, he painted
in fresco scenes of the Passion of Jesus Christ, and that so finely that he well deserved to
be paid more than a thousand crowns for the work. He was much beloved for his talents by the
Dukes of Ferrara, and, in addition to other favours and many gifts, he obtained through their
good offices two Canonicates in the Duomo of Udine for two of his relatives.

Among his pupils, of whom he had many, making much use of them and rewarding them liberally,
was one of Greek nationality, a man of no little ability, who had a very beautiful manner and
imitated Pellegrino closely. But Luca Monverde of Udine, who was much beloved by Pellegrino,
would have been superior to the Greek, if he had not been snatched from the world prematurely
when still a mere lad; although one work by his hand was left on the high-altar of S. Maria
delle Grazie in Udine, a panel-picture in oils, his first and last, in which, in a recess in
perspective, there is a Madonna seated on high with the Child in her arms, painted by him with
a soft gradation of shadow, while on the level surface below there are two figures on either
side, so beautiful that they show that if he had lived longer he would have become truly excellent.

Another disciple of the same Pellegrino was Bastianello Florigorio, who painted a panel-picture
that is over the high-altar of S. Giorgio in Udine, of a Madonna in the sky surrounded by an
endless number of little angels in various attitudes, all adoring the Child that she holds
in her arms; while below there is a very well executed landscape. There is also a very beautiful
S. John, and a S. George in armour and on horseback, who, foreshortened in a spirited attitude,
is slaying the Dragon with his lance; while the Maiden, who is there on one side, appears to
be thanking God and the glorious Virgin for the succour sent to her. In the head of the S.
George Bastianello is said to have made his own portrait. He also painted two pictures in fresco
in the Refectory of the Friars of S. Pietro Martire: in one is Christ seated at table with
the two disciples at Emmaus, and breaking the bread with a benediction, and in the other is
the death of S. Peter Martyr. The same master painted in fresco in a niche on a corner of the
Palace of M. Marguando, an excellent physician, a nude man in foreshortening, representing
a S. John, which is held to be a good painting. Finally, he was forced through some dispute
to depart from Udine, for the sake of peace, and to live like an exile in Civitale.

Bastianello had a crude and hard manner, because he much delighted in drawing works in relief
and objects of Nature by candle-light. He had much beauty of invention, and he took great pleasure
in executing portraits from life, making them truly beautiful and very like; and at Udine,
among others, he made one of Messer Raffaello Belgrado, and one of the father of M. Giovan
Battista Grassi, an excellent painter and architect, from whose loving courtesy we have received
much particular information touching our present subject of Friuli. Bastianello lived about
forty years.

Another disciple of Pellegrino was Francesco Floriani of Udine, who is still alive and is a
very good painter and architect, like his younger brother, Antonio Floriani, who, thanks to
his rare abilities in his profession, is now in the service of his glorious Majesty the Emperor
Maximilian. Some of the pictures of that same Francesco were to be seen two years ago in the
possession of the Emperor, who was then a King; one of these being a Judith who has cut off
the head of Holofernes, painted with admirable judgment and diligence. And in the collection
of that monarch there is a book of pen-drawings by the same master, full of lovely inventions,
buildings, theatres, arches, porticoes, bridges, palaces, and many other works of architecture,
all useful and very beautiful.

Gensio Liberale was also a disciple of Pellegrino, and in his pictures, among other things,
he imitated every sort of fish excellently well. This master is now in the service of the Archduke
Ferdinand of Austria, a splendid position, which he deserves, for he is a very good painter.

