He spent the winter in organizing and drilling his forces on the bank of the Ohio where Cincinnati
now stands, but which was then merely a fort and huddle of houses. He made the most careful
preparations for the expedition, and early in the spring, he commenced his march northward
into the Indian country. The savages gathered to repulse him at a spot on the Maumee where,
years before, a tornado had cut a wide swath through the forest, rendering it all but impenetrable.
Here, on the twentieth of August, 1794, he advanced against the enemy, and, throwing his troops
into the "Fallen Timbers," in which the Indians were ambushed, routed them out, cut them down,
and administered a defeat so crushing that they could not rally from it, and their whole country
was laid waste with fire and sword. Wayne did his work well, burning their villages, and destroying
their crops, so that they would have no means of sustenance during the coming winter. Thoroughly
cowed by this treatment, the Indians sued for peace, and at Greenville, nearly a year later,
Wayne made a treaty in which twelve tribes took part. It marked the beginning of a lasting
peace, which opened the "Old Northwest" to the white settler.

       *       *       *       *       *

No soldier of the Revolution, with the exception of Washington, was elevated to the presidency,
nor did any of them attain an exalted place in the councils of the Nation. Statecraft and military
genius rarely go hand in hand, and it was not until 1828 that a man whose reputation had been
made chiefly on the battlefield was sent to the White House. Andrew Jackson was the only soldier,
with one exception, who came out of the War of 1812 with any great reputation, and it is only
fair to add that his victory at New Orleans was due more to the rashness of the British in
advancing to a frontal attack against a force of entrenched sharpshooters than to any remarkable
generalship on the American side.

The war with Mexico found two able generals ready to hand, and laid the foundations of the
reputations of many more. "Old Rough and Ready" Zachary Taylor, who commanded during the campaign
which ended with the brilliant victory at Buena Vista, had been tested in the fire of frontier
warfare, and won the presidency in 1848; and Franklin Pierce, who commanded one of the divisions
which captured the City of Mexico, won the same prize four years later. It was in this war
that Grant, Lee, Johnston, Davis, Meade, Hooker, Thomas, Sherman, and a score of others who
were to win fame fifteen years later, got their baptism of fire. Their history belongs to the
period of the Civil War and will be told there; but the chief military glory of the war with
Mexico centres about a man who divided the honors of the War of 1812 with Andrew Jackson but
who failed to achieve the presidency, and whose usefulness had ended before the Civil War began--Winfield
Scott.

A Virginian, born in 1786, Scott entered the army at an early age, and had reached the rank
of lieutenant-colonel at the opening of the second war with England. Two years later, he was
made a brigadier-general, and commanded at the fierce and successful battles of Chippewa and
Lundy's Lane. At the close of the war, he was made a major-general, and received the thanks
of Congress for his services. In 1841, he became commander-in-chief of the armies of the United
States; but, at the opening of the war with Mexico, President Polk, actuated by partisan jealousy,
kept Scott in Washington and assigned Zachary Taylor to the command of the armies in the field.
Scott had already an enviable reputation, and had been an aspirant for the presidency, and
Polk feared that a few victories would make him an invincible candidate. Perhaps he was afraid
that Scott would develop into another Andrew Jackson.

However, it was impossible to keep the commander-in-chief of the army inactive while a great
war was in progress, and early in 1847, he was sent to the front, and on March 9 began one
of the most successful and brilliant military campaigns in history. Landing before Vera Cruz,
he captured that city after a bombardment of twenty days, and, gathering his army together,
started on an overland march for the capital of Mexico. Santa Anna, with a great force, awaited
him in a strong position at Cerro Gordo, but Scott seized the key of it in a lofty height commanding
the Mexican position, and soon won a decisive victory. The American army swept on like a tidal
wave, and city after city fell before it, until, on the twentieth of August, it reached the
city of the Montezumas. An armistice delayed the advance until September 7, but on that day
offensive operations were begun. Great fortifications strongly manned guarded the town, but
they were carried one after another by assault, and on September 14, General Scott marched
at the head of his army through the city gates. The war was ended--a war in which the Americans
had not lost a single battle, and had gained a vast empire.

General Scott came out of the war with a tremendous reputation; but he lacked personal magnetism.
A certain stateliness and dignity kept people at a distance, and, together with an exacting
discipline, won him the sobriquet of "Old Fuss and Feathers." In 1852, he was the candidate
of the Whig party for President; but the party was falling to pieces, he himself had no great
personal following, and he was defeated by the Democratic candidate, one of his own generals,
Franklin Pierce. He remained in command of the army until the outbreak of the Civil War. Age
and infirmities prevented his taking the field, and after the disastrous defeat at Bull Run,
he resigned the command. General Scott was renowned for his striking physique, more majestic,
perhaps, even than that of Washington. He has, indeed, been called the most imposing general
in history.

       *       *       *       *       *

With General Scott ends another era of our history, and we come to a consideration of the soldiers
made famous by the greatest war of the nineteenth century--the civil conflict which threatened,
for a time, to disrupt the Union. It was a war waged on both sides with desperate courage and
tenacity, and it developed a number of commanders not, perhaps, of the very first rank, but
standing high in the second.

The first real success of the war was won by George B. McClellan. A graduate of West Point,
veteran of the war with Mexico, and military observer of the war in the Crimea, he had resigned
from the army in 1857 to engage in the railroad business, with headquarters at Cincinnati.
At the opening of the war, he was commissioned major-general, and put in command of the Department
of Ohio. His first work was to clear western Virginia of Confederates, which he did in a series
of successful skirmishes, lasting but a few weeks. He lost only eight men, while the Confederates
lost sixteen hundred, besides over a thousand taken prisoners. The achievement was of the first
importance, since it saved for the Union the western section of Virginia which, a year later,
was admitted as a separate state. It is worth remembering that in this campaign, McClellan's
opponent was no less a personage than Robert E. Lee.

The success was the greater as contrasted with the disaster at Bull Run, and in August, 1861,
McClellan was placed in command of the Army of the Potomac, gathered about Washington and still
discouraged and disorganized from that defeat and rout. His military training had been of the
most thorough description, especially upon the technical side, and no better man could have
been found for the task of whipping that great army into shape. He soon proved his fitness
for the work, and four months later, he had under him a trained and disciplined force, the
equal of any that ever trod American soil. He forged the instrument which, in the end, a stronger
man than he was to use. Let that always be remembered to his credit.

He had become a sort of popular hero, idolized by his soldiers, for he possessed in greater
degree than any other commander at the North that personal magnetism which wins men. But it
was soon evident that he lacked those qualities of aggressiveness, energy, and initiative essential
to a great commander; that he was unduly cautious. He seems to have habitually over-estimated
the strength of the enemy and under-estimated his own. With this habit of mind, it was certain
that he would never suffer a great defeat; but it was also probable that he would never win
a great victory, and a great victory was just what the North hungered for to wipe out the disgrace
of Bull Run. Not for eight months was he ready to begin the campaign against Richmond, and
it ended in heavy loss and final retreat, partly because of McClellan's incapacity and partly
because of ignorant interference with his plans on the part of politicians at Washington. For
it must be remembered that McClellan was a Democrat, and soon became the natural leader of
that party at the North--a fact which seemed little less than treason to many of the political
managers at the Capital.

One great and successful battle he fought, however, at Antietam, checking Lee's attempt to
invade the North and sending him in full retreat back to Virginia, but his failure to pursue
the retreating army exasperated the President, and he was removed from command of the army
on November 7, 1862. This closed his career as a soldier. In the light of succeeding events,
it cannot be doubted that his removal was a serious mistake. All in all, he was the ablest
commander the Army of the Potomac ever had; he was a growing man; a little more experience
in the field would probably have cured him of over-timidity, and made him a great soldier.
General Grant summed the matter up admirably when he said, "The test applied to him would be
terrible to any man, being made a major-general at the beginning of the war. If he did not
succeed, it was because the conditions of success were so trying. If he had fought his way
along and up, I have no reason to suppose that he would not have won as high distinction as
any of us." In 1864, McClellan was the nominee of the Democratic party for the presidency,
but received only twenty-one electoral votes.

The command of the Army of the Potomac passed to Ambrose E. Burnside, who had won some successes
early in the war, but who had protested his unfitness for a great command, and who was soon
to prove it. He led the army after Lee, found him entrenched on the heights back of Fredericksburg,
and hurled division after division against an impregnable position, until twelve thousand men
lay dead and wounded on the field. Burnside, half-crazed with anguish at his fatal mistake,
offered his resignation, which was at once accepted.

"Fighting Joe" Hooker succeeded him, and was soon to demonstrate that he, too, was unfitted
for the great task. Early in May, believing Lee's army to be in retreat, he attacked it at
Chancellorsville, only to be defeated with a loss of seventeen thousand men. At the beginning
of the battle, Hooker had enjoyed every advantage of position, and his army outnumbered Lee's;
but he sacrificed his position, with unaccountable stupidity, moving from a high position to
a lower one, provoking the protest from Meade that, if the army could not hold the top of a
hill, it certainly could not hold the bottom of it; and he seemed unable to use his men to
advantage, holding one division in idleness while another was being cut to pieces.

It is, perhaps, sufficient comment upon the folly of dismissing McClellan to point out that
within seven months of his retirement, the Army of the Potomac, which had been the finest fighting-machine
in existence on the continent, had lost thirty thousand men on the field and thousands more
by desertion, and had been converted from a confident and well-disciplined force into a discouraged
and disorganized rabble.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile a new star had arisen in the West in the person of U.S. Grant--"Unconditional Surrender"
Grant, as he was called, after his capture of Fort Donelson--the event which riveted the eyes
of the Nation upon him and which marked the beginning of his meteor-like advancement. We have
already spoken of Grant as President, and of his unfitness for that high office. There are
also many who dispute his ability as a commander, who point out that his army always outnumbered
that opposed to him, and who claim that his victories were won by brute force and not by military
skill. That there is some truth in this nobody can deny, and yet his campaign against Vicksburg
was one of the most brilliant in this or any other war. It might be added, too, that it takes
something more than preponderance of numbers to win a battle--as Hooker showed at Chancellorsville--and
that Grant did win a great many.

The truth about Grant is that he was utterly lacking in that personal magnetism which made
McClellan, Sheridan and "Stonewall" Jackson idolized by their men, and which is essential to
a great commander. He was cold, reserved, and silent, repelled rather than attracted. He succeeded
mainly because he was determined to succeed, and hung on with bull-dog tenacity until he had
worn his opponent out. Not till then did he stop to take stock of his own injuries. "I propose
to fight it out on this line, if it takes all summer," was a characteristic utterance.

The honors of Union victories were fairly divided with Grant by William Tecumseh Sherman, a
man who, as a general, was greater in some respects than his chief. Sherman was an Ohioan,
and, after graduating from West Point and serving in California during the war with Mexico,
resigned from the army to seek more lucrative employment. He was given a regiment when the
war opened, and his advance was rapid. He first showed his real worth at the battle of Shiloh,
where he commanded a division and by superb fighting, saved Grant's reputation.

Grant had collected an army of forty thousand men at Pittsburg Landing, an obscure stopping-place
in southern Tennessee for Mississippi boats, and though he knew that the Confederates were
gathering at Corinth, twenty miles away, he left his army entirely exposed, throwing up not
a single breastwork, never dreaming that the enemy would dare attack him. Nevertheless, they
did attack, while Grant himself was miles away from his army, and by the end of the first day's
fighting, had succeeded in pushing the Union forces back upon the river, in a cramped and dangerous
position. The action was resumed next day, and the Confederates forced to retire, which they
did in good order. That the Union army was not disastrously defeated was due largely to the
superb leadership of Sherman, who had three horses shot under him and was twice wounded, but
whose demeanor was so cool and inspiring that his raw troops, not realizing their peril, were
filled with confidence and fought like veterans.

Sherman's fame increased rapidly after that. When Grant departed for the East to take command
of the Army of the Potomac, he planned for Sherman a campaign against Atlanta, Georgia--a campaign
which Sherman carried out in the most masterly manner, marching into Atlanta in triumph on
September 2, 1864. The campaign had cost him thirty-two thousand men, but the Confederate loss
had been much heavier, and in Atlanta the Confederacy lost one of its citadels. It was especially
valuable because of the great machine shops located there, and these Sherman proceeded to destroy
before starting on his famous "march to the sea."

This, the most spectacular movement of the whole war, was planned by Sherman, who secured Grant's
permission to carry it out, and the start was made on the fifteenth of November. The army marched
by four roads, as nearly parallel as could be found, starting at seven o'clock every morning
and covering fifteen miles every day. All railroads and other property that might aid the Confederates
were destroyed, the soldiers were allowed to forage freely, and in consequence a swath of destruction
sixty miles wide and three hundred miles long was cut right across the Confederacy. A locust
would have had difficulty in finding anything to eat after the army had passed. It encountered
no effective resistance, and by the middle of December, came within sight of the sea.

On December 21, Sherman entered Savannah, and wired Lincoln that he presented him the city
as a Christmas gift. Then he turned northward to join Grant, taking Columbia, Fayetteville,
Goldsboro and Raleigh, and destroying Confederate arsenals, foundries, railroads and public
works of all descriptions. Lee had surrendered four days before Sherman marched into Raleigh,
and the next day a flag of truce from General Joseph E. Johnston opened negotiations for the
surrender of his army.

This, the virtual close of the Civil War, ended Sherman's career in the field. In 1866, he
was made lieutenant-general, and three years later succeeded Grant as commander-in-chief of
the army, retiring from the service in 1884, at the age of sixty-four.

Whatever may have been the relative merits of Grant and Sherman as commanders, there can be
no question as to the greatest cavalry leader in the Union armies, and one of the greatest
in any army, Philip Henry Sheridan. Above any cavalry leader, North or South, except "Stonewall"
Jackson, Sheridan possessed the power of rousing his men to the utmost pitch of enthusiastic
devotion; young, dashing and intrepid himself, his men were ready to follow him anywhere--and
it was usually to victory that he led them.

Sheridan was a West Pointer, graduating in 1853, and was appointed captain at the outbreak
of the war. It was not until May of 1862 that he found his real place as colonel of cavalry,
and not until the first days of the following year that he had the opportunity to distinguish
himself. Then, at the battle of Murfreesboro, he broke through the advancing Confederate line
which was crumpling up the right of the Union army, and turned the tide of battle from defeat
to victory. As a reward, he was appointed major-general of volunteers. In April, 1864, he became
commander of the cavalry corps of the Army of the Potomac, and three months later made his
famous raid along the valley of the Shenandoah.

Entering the valley with an army of forty thousand men, Sheridan swept Early and a Confederate
force out of it, and then, to render impossible any Confederate raids thereafter with the valley
as a base, rode from end to end of it, destroying everything that would support an army. Early,
meanwhile, had been reinforced, and, one misty morning, fell upon the Federals while they lay
encamped at Cedar Creek. The surprise was complete, and in a short time the Union army was
in full flight. Sheridan had been called to Washington, and on the morning of the battle was
at Winchester, some twenty miles away. In the early dawn, he heard the rumble of the cannonade,
and, springing to horse, galloped to the battlefield, to meet his men retreating.

"Face about, boys! face about!" he shouted, riding up and down the lines; and his men saw him,
and burst into a cheer, and reformed their lines, and, catching his spirit of victory, led
by their loved commander, fell upon Early, routed him and practically destroyed his army. Perhaps
nowhere else in history is there an instance such as this--of a general meeting his army in
full retreat, stopping the panic, facing them about, and leading them to victory.

In the last campaign against Richmond, Sheridan's services were of inestimable value; it was
he who defeated a great Confederate force at the brilliant battle of Five Forks; it was he
who got in front of Lee's retreating army and cornered it at Appomattox. He had his full share
of honors, succeeding Sherman as general-in-chief of the army in 1883, and receiving the rank
of general from Congress, just before his death five years later. Grant, Sherman and Sheridan
are the only men in the country's history who have held this highest of military titles.

       *       *       *       *       *

After these three men, George H. Thomas was the most prominent commander on the Union side;
notable, too, from the fact that he was a Virginian, and was considered a traitor by his native
state for his adherence to the Union cause, just as poor old Winfield Scott had been. He had
made something of a name for himself before the Civil War opened, distinguishing himself in
the war with Mexico and winning brevets for gallantry at the battles of Monterey and Buena
Vista. He won a decisive victory at Mill Springs early in 1862, and saved the army from rout
at Murfreesboro by his heroic holding of the centre. But his most famous exploit was the defence
of Horseshoe ridge, against overwhelming odds, at the battle of Chickamauga.

The Union right wing had been routed, and the Confederates, certain of a great victory, turned
against the left wing, twenty-five thousand strong, under command of Thomas. They swarmed up
the slope on which Thomas had taken his position, only to be hurled back with heavy loss. Again
and again they charged, sixty thousand of them, but Thomas stood like a rock against which
the Confederates dashed themselves in vain. For six hours that terrific fighting continued,
until nearly half of Thomas's men lay dead or wounded, but night found him still master of
the position, saving the Union army from destruction. Ever afterwards Thomas was known as "The
Rock of Chickamauga."

In the following year, he again distinguished himself by defeating Hood at Nashville, in one
of the most brilliant battles of the war. The defeat was the most decisive by either side in
a general engagement, the Confederate army losing half its numbers, and being so routed and
demoralized that it could not rally and was practically destroyed. Thomas's plan of battle
is studied to this day in the military schools of Europe, and has been compared with that of
Napoleon at Austerlitz.

After Grant, Sherman, Sheridan and Thomas, there is a wide gap. No other commanders on the
Union side measured up to them, although there were many of great ability. McPherson, Buell,
Sumner, Hancock, Meade, Rosecrans, Kilpatrick, Pope--all had their hours of triumph, but none
of them developed into what could be called a great commander. Whether from inherent weakness,
or from lack of opportunity for development, all stopped short of greatness. It is worth noting
that every famous general, Union or Confederate, and most of the merely prominent ones, were
graduates of West Point and had received their baptism of fire in Mexico, the only exception
being Sheridan, who did not graduate from West Point until after the war with Mexico was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turning now to the Confederate side, we find here, too, four supremely able commanders, the
first of whom, Robert E. Lee, is believed by many to be the greatest in our country's history.
No doubt some of the renown which attaches to Lee's name is due to his desperate championship
of a lost cause, and to the love which the people of the South bore, and still bear, him because
of his singularly sweet and unselfish character. But, sentiment aside, and looking at him only
as a soldier, he must be given a place in the front rank of our greatest captains. There are
not more than two or three to rank with him--certainly there is none to rank ahead of him.

Robert Edward Lee was a son of that famous "Light Horse Harry" Lee to whose exploits during
the Revolution we have already referred. He was born in Westmoreland County, Virginia, in 1807,
entered West Point at the age of eighteen, and graduated four years later, second in his class.
His father had died ten years before, and his mother lived only long enough to welcome him
home from the Academy. He was at once assigned to the engineer corps of the army, distinguished
himself in the war with Mexico and served as superintendent of West Point from 1852 to 1855.

Meanwhile, at the age of twenty-four, he had married Mary Randolph, daughter of Washington
Parke Custis, of Arlington, and great-grand-daughter of George Washington's wife. Miss Custis
was a great heiress, and in time the estate of Arlington, situated on the heights across the
Potomac from Washington, became hers and her husband's, but he nevertheless continued in the
service. The marriage was a happy and fortunate one in every way, and Lee's home life was throughout
a source of help and inspiration to him.

In the autumn of 1859, while home on leave, he was ordered to assist in capturing John Brown,
who had taken Harper's Ferry. At the head of a company of marines, he took Brown prisoner and,
protecting him from a mob which would have lynched him, handed him over to the authorities.
Two years later came the great trial of his life, when he was called upon to decide between
North and South, between Virginia and the Union.

Lee was not a believer in slavery; he had never owned slaves, and when Custis died in 1859,
Lee had carried out the dead man's desire that all the slaves at Arlington should be freed.
Neither was he a believer in secession; but, on the other hand, he questioned the North's right
to invade and coerce the seceding states, and when Virginia joined them, and made him commander-in-chief
of her army, he accepted the trust.

Curiously enough, the southern press, which was to end by idolizing him, began by abusing him.
His first campaign was in western Virginia and was a woeful failure, due partly to the splendid
way in which McClellan, on the Union side, managed it, and partly to blunders on the Confederate
side for which Lee was in no way responsible; but the result was that that section of the state
was lost to the Confederacy forever, and Lee got the blame. Even his friends feared that he
had been over-rated, and he was sent away from the field of active hostilities to the far South,
where he was assigned to command Florida, Georgia and South Carolina. He accepted the assignment
without comment, and went to work immediately fortifying the coast, to such good purpose that
his reputation was soon again firmly established. Early in 1862, he was recalled to Richmond
to assist in its defense. He found his beautiful estate on the heights opposite Washington
confiscated, his family exiled, his fortune gone.

General Joseph E. Johnston was in command of the forces at Richmond, and was preparing to meet
McClellan, who was slowly advancing up the peninsula. But Johnston was wounded at the battle
of Seven Pines, on May 31, and on the following day, Lee assumed command of the army. He got
it well in hand at once, sent Stuart on a raid around McClellan's lines, and gradually forced
the Union army away from Richmond, until the capital of the Confederacy was no longer in danger.
Flushed with success, Lee threw his army to the northeast against Pope, routed him, crossed
the Potomac into Maryland, threatened Washington, and carried the war with a vengeance into
the enemy's country. A more complete reversal of conditions could not be imagined; a month
before, he had been engaged in a seemingly desperate effort to save Richmond; now he had started
upon an invasion of the North which promised serious results.

But things did not turn out as he expected. The inhabitants of Maryland did not rally to him,
McClellan was soon after him with a great army, and on September 17, overtook him at Antietam,
and fought a desperate battle; from which Lee, overwhelmed by an army half again as large as
his own, was forced to withdraw defeated, though in good order, and recross the Potomac into
Virginia. Three months later, he got his revenge in full measure at Fredericksburg, routing
Burnside with fearful loss, and early in May of the following year scored heavily again by
defeating Hooker at Chancellorsville. The last victory was a dearly-bought one, for it cost
the life of that most famous of all American cavalry leaders, "Stonewall" Jackson, of whom
we shall speak hereafter.

That was the culmination of Lee's career, for two months after Chancellorsville, having started
on another great invasion of the North, on the fourth day of July, 1863, he was forced to retire
from the fierce battle of Gettysburg with his army seriously crippled and with all hope of
invading the North at an end. He was on the defensive, after that, with Grant's great army
gradually closing in upon him and drawing nearer and nearer to Richmond. That he was able to
prolong this struggle for nearly two years, especially considering the exhausted state of the
South, was remarkable to the last degree, eloquent testimony to the high order of his leadership.
Toward the last, his men were in rags and practically starving, but there was no murmuring
so long as their beloved "Marse Robert" was with them.

On the ninth day of April, 1865, six days after the fall of Richmond, Lee found himself surrounded
at Appomattox Courthouse by a vastly superior force under General Grant. To have fought would
have meant a useless waste of human life. Lee chose the braver and harder course, and surrendered.
He knew that there could be but one end to the struggle, and he was brave enough to admit defeat.
On that occasion, Grant rose to the full stature of a hero. He treated his conquered foe with
every courtesy; granted terms whose liberality was afterwards sharply criticised by the clique
in control of Congress, but which Grant insisted should be carried out to the letter; sent
the rations of his own army to the starving Confederates, and permitted them to retain their
horses in order that they might get home, and have some means of earning a livelihood.

When Lee rode back to his army, it was to be surrounded by his ragged soldiers, who could not
believe that the end had come, who were ready to keep on fighting, and who broke down and sobbed
like children when they learned the truth. The next day, he issued an address to his army,
a dignified and worthy composition, which is still treasured in many a southern home; and then,
mounting his faithful horse, Traveller, which had carried him through the war, he rode slowly
away to Richmond. He was greeted everywhere with the wildest enthusiasm, and found himself
then, as he has ever since remained, the idol and chosen hero of the southern people, who saw
in him a unique and splendid embodiment of valor and virtue, second only to the first and greatest
of all Virginians, and even surpassing him in the subtle qualities of the heart.

As has been said, his fortune was gone, and it was necessary for him to earn a living. The
opportunity soon came in the offer of the presidency of Washington College, at Lexington, where
the remainder of his days were spent in honored quiet. Those five years of warfare, with their
hardships and exposures, had brought on rheumatism of the heart, and the end came on October
12, 1870. He died dreaming of battle, and his last words were, "Tell Hill he must come up!"

Next to Lee in the hearts of the Southern soldiers was Thomas Jonathan Jackson, better known
by the sobriquet of "Stonewall," which General Bee gave him during the first battle of Bull
Run. Driven back by the Union onset, the Confederate left had retreated a mile or more, when
it reached the plateau where Jackson and his brigade were stationed. The brigade never wavered,
but stood fast and held the position.

"See there!" shouted General Bee, "Jackson is standing like a stone wall. Rally on the Virginians!"

Rally they did, and Jackson was ever thereafter known as "Stonewall."

It was a good name, as representing not only his qualities of physical courage, but also his
qualities of moral courage. There was something rock-like and immovable about him, even in
his everyday affairs, and so "Stonewall" he remained.

In some respects Stonewall Jackson was the most remarkable man whom the war made famous. A
graduate of West Point, he had served through the Mexican war, and then, finding the army not
to his liking, had resigned from the service to accept a professorship at the Virginia Military
Institute. He made few friends, for he was of a silent and reserved disposition, and besides,
he conducted a Sunday school for colored children. It is a fact worth noting that neither of
the two great leaders of the Confederate armies believed in slavery, the one thing which they
were fighting to defend. So Jackson's neighbors merely thought him queer, and left him to himself;
certainly, none suspected that he was a genius.

Yet a genius he was, and proved it. Enlisting as soon as the war began, and distinguishing
himself, as we have seen, by holding back the Union charge at Bull Run, he was made a major-general
after that battle, and a year later probably saved Richmond from capture by preventing the
armies of Banks and McDowell from operating with McClellan, making one of the most brilliant
campaigns of the war, overwhelming both his antagonists, and, leaving them stunned behind him,
hastening to Richmond to assist Lee, arriving just in time to turn the tide of battle at Gaines
Mills.

As soon as McClellan had been beaten back from Richmond, Jackson returned to the Shenandoah
valley, defeated Banks at Cedar Run, seized Pope's depot at Manassas, and held him on the ground
until Lee came up, when Pope was defeated at the second battle of Bull Run. Two weeks later,
Jackson captured Harper's Ferry, with thirteen thousand prisoners, seventy cannon, and a great
quantity of stores; commanded the left wing of the Confederate army at Antietam, against which
the corps of Hooker, Mansfield and Sumner hurled themselves in vain; and at Fredericksburg
commanded the right wing, which repelled the attack of Franklin's division.

These remarkable successes had established Jackson's reputation as a commander of unusual merit;
he was promoted to lieutenant-general, and Lee came to rely upon him more and more. He had,
too, by a certain high courage and charm of character, won the complete devotion of his men;
to say that they loved him, that any one of them would have laid down his life for him, is
but the simple truth. No other leader in the whole war, with the exception of Lee, who dwelt
in a region high and apart, was idolized as he was. But his career was nearly ended, and, by
the bitter irony of fate, he was to be killed by the very men who loved him.

On the second day of May, 1863, Lee sent him on a long flanking movement around Hooker's army
at Chancellorsville. Emerging from the woods towards evening, he surprised and routed Howard's
corps, and between eight and nine o'clock rode forward with a small party beyond his own lines
to reconnoitre the enemy's position. As he turned to ride back, his party was mistaken for
Federal cavalrymen and a volley poured into it by a Confederate outpost. Several of the party
were killed, and Jackson received three wounds. They were not in themselves fatal, but pneumonia
followed, and death came eight days later.

There was none to fill his place--it was as though Lee had lost his right arm. The result of
the war would have been in no way different had he lived, but his death was an incalculable
loss to the Confederacy. It was Lee's opinion that he would have won the battle of Gettysburg
had he had Jackson with him, and this is more than probable, so evenly did victory and defeat
hang in the balance there. But, even then, the North would have been far from conquered, and
its superior resources and larger armies must have won in the end. Perhaps, after all, Jackson's
death was, in a way, a blessing, since it shortened a struggle which, in any event, could have
had but one result.

Another heavy loss which the Confederacy suffered even earlier in the war was that of Albert
Sidney Johnston, killed at the battle of Shiloh. Jefferson Davis said the cause of the South
was lost when Johnston fell, but this was, of course, only a manner of speaking, for Johnston
could not have saved it. Johnston had an adventurous career and saw a great deal of fighting
before the Civil War began. Graduating at West Point in 1826, he served as chief of staff to
General Atkinson during the Black Hawk war, and then, joining the Texan revolutionists, served
first as a private and then as commander of the Texan army. He commanded a regiment in the
war with Mexico, and in 1857, led a successful expedition against the rebellious Mormons in Utah.

His training, then, and an experience greater than any other commander in the Civil War started
out with, fitted him for brilliant work from the very first. At the outbreak of the war, he
was put by the Confederate government in command of the departments of Kentucky and Tennessee,
and on April 6, 1862, swept down upon Grant's unprotected army at Shiloh. That battle might
have ended in a disastrous defeat for the North but for the accident which deprived the Confederates
of their commander. About the middle of the afternoon, while leading his men forward to the
attack which was pressing the Federals back upon the river, he was struck by a bullet which
severed an artery in the thigh. The wound was not a fatal, nor even a very serious one, and
his life could have been saved had it been given immediate attention. But Johnston, carried
away by the prospect of impending victory and the excitement of the fight, continued in the
saddle cheering on his men, his life-blood pulsing away unheeded, until he sank unconscious
into the arms of one of his officers. He was lifted to the ground and a surgeon hastily summoned.
But it was too late.

Johnston's death left the command of the army to General Pierre Beauregard, who had had the
somewhat dubious honor of firing the first shot of the war against Fort Sumter and of capturing
the little garrison which defended it. Beauregard was a West Point man, standing high in his
class, and his work, previous to the war, was largely in the engineer corps. When the war began,
he was superintendent of the academy at West Point, but resigned at once to join the South.
After the capture of Sumter, he was ordered to Virginia and was in practical command at the
first battle of Bull Run, which resulted in the rout of the Union forces. After that, he was
sent to Tennessee, as second in command to Albert Sidney Johnston, and he succeeded to the
command of the army on Johnston's death at Shiloh.

The first day's fighting at Shiloh had resulted in a Confederate victory, but Beauregard was
not able to maintain this advantage on the second day, and was finally compelled to draw off
his forces. Grant pursued him, and Beauregard was forced to retreat far to the south before
he was safe from capture. Two years later, he attempted to stop Sherman on his march to the
sea, but was unable to do so, and, joining forces with Joseph E. Johnston, surrendered, to
Sherman a few days after Appomattox.

Joseph E. Johnston had been a classmate of Lee at West Point, and had seen much service before
the Civil War began. He was aide-de-camp to General Scott in the Black Hawk war; and in the
war with the Florida Indians, was brevetted for gallantry in rescuing the force he commanded
from an ambush into which it had been lured, the fight being so desperate that, besides being
wounded, no less than thirty bullets penetrated his clothes. In the war with Mexico he was
thrice brevetted for gallantry, and was seriously wounded at Cerro Gordo and again at Chapultepec.
At the beginning of the Civil War, he was quartermaster-general of the United States army,
resigning that position to take service with the South.

When McDowell advanced against Beauregard at Bull Run, Johnston, who was at Winchester, hastened
with his army to the scene of battle, and this reinforcement, which McDowell had endeavored
vainly to prevent, won the day for the Confederates. He remained in command at Richmond, opposing
McClellan's advance up the peninsula, but was badly wounded at the battle of Seven Pines, and
was incapacitated for duty for several months, Lee succeeding him in command of the army.

Johnston was never again to gain any great victories, for he had in some way incurred the ill-will
of Jefferson Davis, and was placed in one impossible position after another, sent to meet an
enemy which always outnumbered him, and refused the assistance which he should have had. The
last of these tasks was that of stopping Sherman's march to the sea, but Sherman had sixty
thousand men to his seventeen thousand, and a battle was out of the question.

After Lee's surrender, Davis fled south to Greensboro, where Johnston found him and advised
that, since the war had been decided against them, it was their duty to end it without delay,
as its further continuance could accomplish nothing and would be mere murder. To this Davis
reluctantly agreed, and Johnston thereupon sought Sherman and made terms of surrender for his
army and Beauregard's. The terms which Sherman granted were rejected by Congress as too liberal,
and another agreement was drawn up, similar to the one which had been signed between Grant
and Lee. It is worth remarking that the Union generals in the field were disposed to treat
their fallen foes with greater charity and kindness than the politicians in Congress, who had
never seen a battlefield, and who were concerned, not with succoring a needy brother, but with
wringing every possible advantage from the situation.

To two other southern commanders we must give passing mention before turning from this period
of our history. First of these is James Longstreet, who had the reputation of being the hardest
fighter in the Confederate service, whose men were devoted to him, and called him affectionately
"Old Pete." The army always felt secure when "Old Pete" was with it; and, indeed, he did not
seem to know how to retreat. He held the Confederate right at Bull Run, and the left at Fredericksburg;
he saved Jackson from defeat by Pope, at the second battle of Bull Run; he was on the right
at Gettysburg, and tried to dissuade Lee from the disastrous charge of the third day which
resulted in Confederate defeat; he held the left at Chickamauga, did brilliant service in the
Wilderness, and was included in the surrender at Appomattox. A sturdy and indomitable man,
the Confederacy had good reason to be proud of him.

The second is J.E.B. Stuart, as a cavalry leader second only to Jackson, and Sheridan, but
with his reputation shadowed by a fatal mistake. He was a past master of the sudden and daring
raid, and on more than one occasion carried consternation into the enemy's camp by a brilliant
dash through it. One of his most successful raids was made around McClellan's army on the peninsula,
shaking its sense of security and threatening its communications. On another occasion, he dashed
into Pope's camp, captured his official correspondence and personal effects and made prisoners
of several officers of his staff, Pope himself escaping only because he happened to be away
from headquarters. The one shadow upon his military career, referred to above, was his absence
from the field of Gettysburg.

He was directed to take a position on the right of the Confederate army, but started away on
a raid in the rear of the Federals, not expecting a battle to be fought at once, and he did
not get back to the main army until the battle of Gettysburg had been lost. The absence of
cavalry was a severe handicap to the Confederate army, and Lee always attributed his defeat
to Stuart's absence; but Stuart maintained that he had acted under orders, and that the mistake
was not his. He was killed in a fight with Sheridan's cavalry at Yellow Tavern, Virginia, a
short time later.

And here we must end the story of the great soldiers of the Confederacy. There were many others
who fought well and bravely--Bragg, A.P. Hill, Magruder, Pemberton--but none of them attained
the dimensions of a national figure. Weighing the merits of the leaders of the two armies,
they would seem to be pretty evenly balanced. This was natural enough, since all of them had
had practically the same training and experience, and, during the war, the same opportunities.
Lee, Jackson and Johnston were fairly matched by Grant, Sheridan and Sherman.

The Southern leaders, perhaps, showed more dash and vim than the Northern ones, for they waged
a more desperate fight; but both sides fought with the highest valor, and if the war did not
have for the North the poignant meaning it had for the South, it was because practically all
of its battles were fought on southern soil, and the southern people saw their fair land devastated.
In no instance did the North suffer any such burning humiliation as that inflicted on the South
by Sherman in his march to the sea; at the close of the war, despite its sacrifice of blood
and treasure, the North was more prosperous than it had been at the beginning, while the South
lay prostrate and ruined. So to the North the war has receded into the vista of memory, while
to the South it is a wound not yet wholly healed.

       *       *       *       *       *

There have been no great American soldiers since the Civil War--at least, there has been no
chance for them to prove their greatness, for there is only one test of a soldier and that
is the battlefield. When George A. Custer was ambushed and his command wiped out by the Sioux
in 1876, a wave of sorrow went over the land for the dashing, fair-haired leader and his devoted
men; yet the very fact that he had led his men into a trap clouded such military reputation
as he had gained during the last years of the war.

The war with Spain was too brief to make any reputations, though it was long enough to ruin
several. The man who gained most glory in that conflict was "Fighting Joe" Wheeler, veteran
of Shiloh, of Murfreesboro, of Chickamauga, dashing like a gnat against Sherman's flanks, and
annoying him mightily on that march to the sea; a southerner of the southerners, and yet with
a great patriotism which sent him to the front in 1898, and a hard experience which enabled
him to save the day at Santiago, when the general in command lay in a hammock far to the rear.

Let us pause, too, for mention of Nelson A. Miles, who had volunteered at the opening of the
Civil War, fought in every battle of the Army of the Potomac up to the surrender at Appomattox,
been thrice wounded and as many times brevetted for gallantry; the conqueror of the Cheyenne,
Comanche and Sioux Indians in the years following the war; and finally attaining the rank of
commander-in-chief of the army of the United States; to find himself, as Winfield Scott had
done, at odds politically with the head of the War Department and with the President, and kept
at home when a war was raging. For the same reason as Scott had been, perhaps, since some of
his admirers had talked of him for the presidency. He was released, at last, to command the
expedition against Porto Rico, which resulted in the complete and speedy subjugation of that
island. A careful and intelligent, if not a brilliant soldier, he is, perhaps, the most eminent
figure which the years since the great rebellion have developed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Looking back over the military history of the country since its beginning, it is evident that
America has produced no soldier of commanding genius--no soldier, for instance, to rank with
Napoleon, who, at his prime, seemed able to compel victory; or with Frederick the Great, that
past master of the art of war. Yet it should be remembered that both these men were soldiers
all their lives, and that they stand practically unmatched in modern history. Of the next rank--the
rank of Wellington and Von Moltke--we have, at least, three, Washington, Lee, and Grant; while
to match such impetuous and fiery leaders as Ney, and Lannes, and Soult, we have Harry Lee,
Marion, Sheridan, Jackson, and Albert Sidney Johnston. So America has no reason to blush for
her military achievements--more especially since her history has been one of peace, save for
fifteen years out of the one hundred and thirty-three of her existence.

SUMMARY

PUTNAM ISRAEL. Born at Salem, Massachusetts, January 7, 1718; served in French and Indian war,
1755-62; in Pontiac's war, 1764; one of the commanding officers at battle of Bunker Hill, June
17, 1775; major-general in Continental army, 1775; took part in siege of Boston, 1775-76; commanded
at defeat on Long Island, August 27, 1776; commanded in high-lands of the Hudson, 1777; served
in Connecticut, 1778-79; disabled by a stroke of paralysis, 1779; died at Brooklyn, Connecticut,
May 19, 1790.

GATES, HORATIO. Born at Maldon, England, in. 1728; served as captain under Braddock, 1755;
settled in Berkeley County, Virginia; adjutant-general in Continental army, 1775; succeeded
Schuyler as commander in the North, 1777; received Burgoyne's surrender, October 17, 1777;
President of the Board of War and Ordnance, November, 1777; appointed to command in the South,
1780; totally defeated by Cornwallis at Camden, South Carolina, August 16, 1780; succeeded
by General Greene; died at New York City, April 10, 1806.

ARNOLD, BENEDICT. Born at Norwich, Connecticut, January 14, 1741; commissioned colonel, 1775;
took part in capture of Ticonderoga, 1775; commanded expedition against Quebec, 1775; made
brigadier-general and commanded at a naval battle on Lake Champlain, 1776; decided the second
battle of Saratoga, 1777; appointed commander of Philadelphia, 1778; tried by court-martial
and reprimanded by Washington, 1780; appointed commander of West Point, 1780; treason discovered
by Washington, September 23, 1780; conducted British expeditions against Virginia and Connecticut,
1781; died at London, June 14, 1801.

GREENE, NATHANAEL. Born at Warwick, Rhode Island, May 24, 1742; distinguished himself at Trenton,
Princeton, Brandywine and Germantown, and succeeded Gates in command of the southern army,
1780; conducted retreat from the Catawba to the Dan, 1781; won victories of Guildford Court
House and Eutaw Springs, 1781; died near Savannah, Georgia, June 19, 1786.

MARION, FRANCIS. Born at Winyaw, South Carolina, 1732; a partisan leader in South Carolina,
1780-82; served at Eutaw Springs, 1781; died near Eutaw, South Carolina, February 27, 1795.

SUMTER, THOMAS. Born in Virginia in 1734; in Braddock campaign, 1755; lieutenant-colonel of
regiment of South Carolina riflemen, 1776; defeated Tories at Hanging Rock, August 6, 1780;
defeated by Tarleton at Fishing Creek, August 18, 1780; defeated Tarleton at Blackstock Hill,
November 20, 1780; member of Congress from South Carolina, 1789-93; senator, 1801-09; minister
to Brazil, 1809-11; died near Camden, South Carolina, June 1, 1832.

LEE, HENRY. Born in Westmoreland County, Virginia, January 29, 1756; distinguished in Revolution
as commander of "Lee's Legion"; governor of Virginia, 1792-95; member of Congress, 1799-1801;
died at Cumberland Island, Georgia, March 25, 1818.

ST. CLAIR, ARTHUR. Born at Thurso, Scotland, 1734; served at Louisburg and at Quebec, 1758;
resigned from British army and settled in Ligonier valley, Pennsylvania, 1764; appointed colonel,
January 3, 1776; brigadier-general, August 9, 1776; organized New Jersey militia and participated
in battles of Trenton and Princeton; major-general, February 19, 1777; succeeded Gates in command
at Ticonderoga, and abandoned fort at approach of Burgoyne's army, July, 1777; court-martialed
in consequence, 1778, and acquitted "with the highest honor"; succeeded Arnold in command of
West Point, 1780; before Yorktown at surrender of Cornwallis, and in South till close of war;
delegate to Continental Congress, 1785-87; governor of Northwest Territory, 1789-1802; defeated
by Indians near Miami villages, November 4, 1791; died at Greensburg, Pennsylvania, August
31, 1818.

WAYNE, ANTHONY. Born in Chester County, Pennsylvania, January 1, 1745; member of Pennsylvania
legislature, 1774; colonel of Pennsylvania troops in Canada, 1776; brigadier-general, 1777;
served at Brandywine, Germantown, and Monmouth; stormed Stony Point, July 15, 1779; commanded
at Green Spring, 1781; served at Yorktown; member of Congress from Georgia, 1791-92; appointed
major-general and commander-in-chief of the army, 1792; won the battle of Fallen Timbers, 1794;
negotiated treaty of Greenville, 1795; died at Erie, Pennsylvania, December 15, 1796.

SCOTT, WINFIELD.

MCLELLAN, GEORGE BRINTON. Born at Philadelphia, December 3, 1826; graduated at West Point,
1846; served in Mexican war, 1846-47; sent to Europe to observe Crimean war, 1855-56; in railroad
business, 1857-61; major-general of volunteers, April, 1861; cleared West Virginia of Confederates,
June and July, 1861; commander Department of the Potomac, August, 1861; organized Army of the
Potomac and conducted Peninsula campaign, 1861-62; superseded by Burnside, November 7, 1862;
Democratic candidate for President, 1864; governor of New Jersey, 1878-81; died at Orange,
New Jersey, October 29, 1885.

BURNSIDE, AMBROSE EVERETT. Born at Liberty, Indiana, May 23, 1824; captured Roanoke Island
and Newbern, February-March, 1862; fought at Antietam, September 17, 1862; commanded Army of
the Potomac, November 7, 1862-January 26, 1863; defeated at Fredericksburg, December, 1862;
governor of Rhode Island, 1867-69; senator, 1875-81; died at Bristol, Rhode Island, September
13, 1881.

HOOKER, JOSEPH. Born at Hadley, Massachusetts, November 13, 1814; graduated at West Point,
1837; served as captain in Mexican war; brigadier-general, 1861; corps commander at South Mountain,
Antietam, and Fredericksburg; commander of Army of the Potomac, January 25, 1863; defeated
by Lee at Chancellorsville, May 2-3, 1863; relieved of command, June 27, 1863; served in Chattanooga
campaign and with Sherman; died at Garden City, New York, October 31, 1879.

SHERMAN, WILLIAM TECUMSEH. Born at Lancaster, Ohio, February 8, 1820; graduated at West Point,
1840; served in California during Mexican war; colonel in Union army, 1861; brigadier-general,
1861; was at Bull Run and Shiloh, and made major-general of volunteers, May 1, 1862; served
at Chattanooga and Vicksburg, won battles of Dalton, Resaca, Kenesaw Mountain, and Peachtree
Creek; made major-general in regular army, August 12, 1864; occupied Atlanta, September 2,
1864; started on march to the sea, November 12, 1864; entered Savannah, December 21, 1864;
received surrender of Johnston's army, April 26, 1865; lieutenant-general, 1866; general and
commander of the army, 1869; retired, 1884; died at New York City, February 14, 1891.

SHERIDAN, PHILIP HENRY. Born at Albany, New York, March 6, 1831; graduated at West Point, 1853;
captain, 1861; colonel of cavalry, 1862; at Perryville, Murfreesboro, Chickamauga and Missionary
Ridge; commander of cavalry corps of Army of the Potomac, April, 1864; at Wilderness, Hawe's
Shop and Trevellian; won victories of Winchester, Fisher's Hill, Cedar Creek, and devastated
Shenandoah Valley, 1864; major-general, November 8, 1864; commanded at Five Forks, March 31,
April 1, 1865; took leading part in pursuit of Lee; lieutenant-general, 1867; succeeded Sherman
as Commander-in-chief, 1883; general, 1888; died at Nonquith, Massachusetts, August 5, 1888.

THOMAS, GEORGE HENRY. Born in Southampton County, Virginia, July 31, 1816; graduated at West
Point, 1840; served in Seminole and Mexican wars; brigadier-general of volunteers, August,
1861; at Mill Springs, Perryville and Murfreesboro; became famous for his defense of Union
position at Chickamauga, September 19-20, 1863; with Sherman in Georgia, 1864; defeated Hood
at Nashville, December 15-16, 1864; died at San Francisco, March 28, 1870.

LEE, ROBERT EDWARD. Born in Westmoreland County, Virginia, January 19, 1807; graduated at West
Point, 1829; served with distinction in Mexican war; superintendent of West Point Academy,
1852-55; commanded forces which captured John Brown, 1859; resigned commission in United States
Army, April, 1861; appointed major-general of Virginia forces, April, 1861; commander of the
Army of Northern Virginia, June 3, 1862; commanded in Seven Days' Battles, Manassas campaign,
at Antietam and Fredericksburg, 1862; Chancellorsville and Gettysburg, 1863; against Grant
at Wilderness, Spottsylvania, Cold Harbor and Petersburg, 1864-65; surrendered to Grant at
Appomattox, April 9, 1865; president of Washington College, Lexington, Virginia, 1865-70; died
at Lexington, Virginia, October 12, 1870.

JACKSON, THOMAS JONATHAN. Born at Clarksburg, West Virginia, January 21, 1824; graduated at
West Point, 1846; served through Mexican war and resigned from army, 1851; professor of philosophy
and artillery tactics Virginia Military Institute, 1851-61; joined Confederate army at opening
of Civil War; brigadier-general at Bull Run, July 21, 1861; major-general, November, 1861;
at Winchester, Cross Keys, Gaines's Mill, Malvern Hill, Cedar Mountain, Harper's Ferry, Antietam
and Fredericksburg, 1862; mortally wounded by his own men at Chancellorsville, May 2, 1863;
died at Chancellorsville, Virginia, May 10, 1863.

JOHNSTON, ALBERT SIDNEY. Born at Washington, Mason County, Kentucky, February 3, 1803; graduated
at West Point, 1826; served in Black Hawk war, 1832; resigned from army, 1834; enlisted as
private in Texan army, 1836; succeeded Felix Houston as commander of Texan army, 1837; secretary
of war for Republic of Texas, 1838-40; served in Mexican war, 1846-47; commanded successful
expedition against revolted Mormons in Utah, 1857; appointed commander of Department of Kentucky
and Tennessee in Confederate service, 1861; attacked Grant's army at Shiloh, April 6, 1862,
and killed there while leading his men.

BEAUREGARD, PIERRE GUSTAVE TOUTANT.

JOHNSTON, JOSEPH ECCLESTON. Born near Farmville, Virginia, February 3, 1807; graduated at West
Point, 1829; served in Mexican war, 1846-47; entered Confederate service as brigadier-general,
1861; took part in battle of Bull Run, opposed McClellan in Peninsular campaign, fought battles
of Resaca and Dallas against Sherman, and surrendered to Sherman at Durham Station, North Carolina,
April 26, 1865; member of Congress, 1876-78; United States Commissioner of Railways, 1885-89;
died at Washington, D.C., March 21, 1891.

LONGSTREET, JAMES.

STUART, JAMES EWELL BROWN. Born in Patrick County, Virginia, February 6, 1833; graduated at
West Point, 1854; entered Confederate service, 1861, and became leading cavalry officer in
Army of Northern Virginia; at Bull Run, Peninsula, Manassas Junction, Antietam, Fredericksburg
and Chancellorsville; mortally wounded at battle of Yellow Tavern, and died at Richmond, May
12, 1864.

WHEELER, JOSEPH. Born in Augusta, Georgia, September 10, 1836; graduated at West Point, 1859;
entered Confederate army as colonel; at Shiloh, Green River, Perryville; brigadier-general,
1862; major-general, 1863; at Murfreesboro, commanded cavalry at Chickamauga, fought Sherman
almost daily on the march to the sea; included in Johnston's surrender, April 26, 1865; member
of Congress, from Alabama, 1881-99; appointed major-general of volunteers, U.S.A., May 4, 1898;
in command of cavalry at Las Guasimas and before Santiago; in Philippine Islands, 1899-1900;
died at Brooklyn, New York, January 25, 1906.

MILES, NELSON APPLETON. Born at Westminster, Massachusetts, August 8, 1839; entered Union army
as volunteer, 1861, attaining rank of major-general of volunteers; enlisted in regular army
at close of war, rising grade by grade to major-general, and commander-in-chief, 1895-1903;
conducted campaigns against Geronimo and Natchez, 1886; in command of United States troops
at Chicago strike, 1884; lieutenant-general, June 6, 1900; retired, August 8, 1903.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VIII

GREAT SAILORS

We have said that America has produced no soldier of commanding genius, but her sailors outrank
the world. Even Great Britain, mighty seafaring nation as she has been, cannot, in the last
hundred and fifty years, show any brighter galaxy of stars. Just why it would be difficult
to say. Perhaps America inherited from England the traditions of that race of heroes who made
the age of Elizabeth, so memorable on the ocean, and who started their country on her career
as mistress of the seas--Raleigh, Drake, Hawkins, Frobisher, Gilbert, and Howard of Effingham.

Surely in direct descent from these daring adventurers was that earliest of America's naval
commanders, John Paul Jones, well called the "Founder of the American Navy." He it was who
first carried the Stars and Stripes into foreign waters, and who made Europe to see that a
new nation had arisen, in the west. He it was who first scouted the tradition of England's
invincibility on the sea, and carried the war into her very ports. He it was who proved that
American valor yielded no whit to British valor--who, when Captain Pearson, of the Serapis,
asked if he had struck his colors, shouted back that he had not yet begun to fight, although
his ship had been shot to pieces and was sinking; but who thereupon did begin, and to such
good purpose that he captured his adversary and got his crew aboard her as his own ship sank.
Truly a remarkable man and one worth looking at closely.

In the middle of the eighteenth century, there lived in the county of Kirkcudbright, Scotland,
a poor gardener named John Paul. He had a large family, and finding it no small task to feed
so many mouths, accepted the offer of a distant relative named William Jones to adopt his oldest
son, William, named in honor of that same relative. Jones owned a plantation in Virginia, and
thither the boy accompanied him, being known thereafter as William Paul Jones. None of John
Paul's numerous children, however, would have figured on the pages of history but for the youngest
son, born in 1747, and named after his father, John Paul.

Little John Paul had a short childhood, for as soon as he could handle a line, he was put to
work with the fishermen on Solway Firth to help earn a living for the family. By the time that
he was twelve years old, he was a first-class sailor, and had developed a love for the sea
and a disregard of its perils which never left him. Securing his father's consent, he shipped
as apprentice for a voyage to Virginia, and visited his brother, who was managing his adopted
father's estate near Fredericksburg. The old planter took a great fancy to the boy, and offered
to adopt him also, but young John Paul preferred the adventurous life of the ocean to humdrum
existence on a Virginia plantation. For the next fifteen years, he followed the sea, studying
navigation and naval history, French and Spanish, and fitting himself in every way for high
rank in his profession.

On the seventeenth of April, 1773, John Paul anchored his brig, the Two Friends, in the Rappahannock
just below his brother's plantation, and rowed to shore to pay him a visit. He found him breathing
his last. He died childless, and John Paul found himself heir to the estate, which was a considerable
one. Resigning command of his vessel, he settled down to the life of a Virginia planter, adding
to his name the last name of his family's benefactor, and being known thereafter as John Paul
Jones.

Events were at this time hurrying forward toward war with Great Britain; Virginia was in a
ferment, and Paul Jones was soon caught up by this tide of patriotism. When, in 1775, the Congress
decided to "equip a navy for the defence of American liberty," Jones at once offered his services,
and was made a senior first lieutenant. It is amusing to run over the names of those first
officers of the American navy. As was the case with the first generals, out of the whole list
only two names live with any lustre--Paul Jones and Nicholas Biddle.

Paul Jones was the first of these officers to receive his commission, John Hancock handing
it to him in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, shortly after noon on December 22, 1775. Immediately
afterwards, the new lieutenant, accompanied by a distinguished party, including Hancock and
Thomas Jefferson, proceeded to the Chestnut street wharf, where the Alfred, the first American
man-of-war was lying moored. Captain Saltonstall, who was to command the ship, had not yet
arrived from Boston, and at Hancock's direction, Lieutenant Jones took command, and ran up
the first American flag ever shown from the masthead of a man-of-war. It was not the Stars
and Stripes, which had not yet been adopted as the flag of the United States, but a flag showing
a rattlesnake coiled at the foot of a pine-tree, with the words, "Don't tread on me."

Three other small vessels were soon placed in commission, and the squadron started out on its
first cruise on February 17, 1776. Through the inexperience and incompetency of the officers,
the cruise was a complete failure, and resulted in the dismissal of "Commander-in-Chief" Ezekial
Hopkins, and the retirement of Jones's immediate superior, Captain Dudley Saltonstall. It was
a striking example of how the first blast of battle winnows the wheat from the chaff, and its
best result was to give Paul Jones a command of his own. Never thereafter was he forced to
serve under an imbecile superior, but was always, to the end of his career, the ranking officer
on his station.

His first command was a small one, the sloop-of-war Providence, with fourteen guns and 107
men, but in six weeks he had captured sixteen prizes, of which eight were manned and sent to
port, and eight destroyed at sea; was twice chased by frigates, escaping capture only by the
most brilliant manoeuvring; and made two descents on the coast of Nova Scotia, releasing some
American prisoners, capturing arms and ammunition, dispersing a force of Tories, and destroying
a number of fishing smacks; and finally reached port again with a crew of forty-seven, all
the rest having been told off to man his prizes.

Work of so brilliant a description won instant recognition, especially as contrasted with the
failure of the first cruise, and Jones was promoted to a captaincy, and the Alfred, a ship
mounting twenty-eight guns, added to his command. A cruise of thirty-three days in these two
vessels resulted in seven prizes, two of them armed transports loaded with supplies for the
British army.

Fired by these successes, Jones's great ambition was for a cruise along the coast of England.
He argued that the time had come when the American flag should be shown in European waters,
and that the moral effect of a descent upon the English coast would be tremendous. It would
have this further advantage, that England was expecting no such attack, that her ports would
be found unprepared for it, and that great damage to her shipping could probably be done.

That these two acts should have been joined in one resolution seems a remarkable coincidence.
"The flag and I are twins," Jones used to say; "we cannot be parted in life or death"; and
it was this flag he carried with him when he sailed from Portsmouth in the dawn of the first
day of November, 1777. Something else he carried, too--dispatches which had been placed in
his hands only a few hours before, telling of Burgoyne's surrender. "I will spread the news
in France in thirty days," Jones promised, as his ship cast loose, and he actually did land
at Nantes thirty-one days later. The news he brought decided France in favor of an alliance
with the United States, and the Treaty of Alliance was signed two months later.

Jones, meanwhile, had overhauled and refitted his ship, and on the tenth of April, set sail
from Brest, intending to make a complete circuit of the British Isles. Entering the Irish Sea,
he spread terror along its shores, where his coming was like a bolt from the blue, engaged
and captured the British ship-of-war Drake, took a number of prizes, and sailed into Brest
again after an absence of twenty-eight days.

It has been the fashion in some quarters to call Jones a pirate, but it is difficult to see
any argument for such a characterization of him. He sailed under the flag of the United States,
held a commission from the United States, and attacked an enemy with whom the United States
was at war. There is no hint of piracy about that; but Jones came to be a sort of bogeyman
to the coast towns of the British Isles, who never knew when to expect an attack from him,
and no name was too hard for their frightened inhabitants to apply to him.

But it was some time before Jones was able to strike another blow. He realized that he must
have a more effective squadron for his second cruise, and more than a year was spent in getting
it together. Finally, on August 14, 1779, he got to sea again with a squadron of four vessels--not
a very effective one, but the best that could be had. The flagship was an unwieldy old Indiaman
which Jones had named the Bon Homme Richard, in honor of his good friend, Benjamin Franklin,
whose Poor Richard was almost as famous in France as in America. The other three ships were
commanded by Frenchmen, and all the crews were of the most motley description. On September
23, the squadron sighted a great fleet of English merchantmen, under convoy of the Serapis,
a powerful frigate mounting forty-four guns, and the Countess of Scarborough, mounting twenty-eight.
Jones signalled his squadron to give chase and himself closed with the Serapis.

Captain Pearson, of the Serapis, was very willing for the contest, since his ship was greatly
superior to Jones's old boat in fighting qualities; but Jones succeeded in depriving the Serapis
of some of this advantage by running his vessel into her and lashing fast. So close did they
lie that their yardarms interlocked, and their rigging was soon so fouled that Jones could
not have got away, even had he wished to do so. For three hours the ships lay there, side by
side, pouring broadsides into each other; their decks were soon covered with dead and wounded;
two of the Richard's guns burst and her main battery was silenced, but Jones kept fighting
on, for a time with so few guns that the captain of the Serapis thought he had surrendered.

"Have you struck?" he shouted, through his trumpet.

"No," Jones shouted back, "I have not yet begun to fight!"

The Serapis was on fire and the Richard was sinking, but at this juncture, one of the men of
the Richard crept out along a yardarm, and dropped a hand grenade down a hatchway of the Serapis.
It wrought fearful havoc, and Pearson struck his flag.

It was time, for the Richard was on fire in two places, all her main-deck guns were dismounted,
and she was sinking fast. She was kept afloat with great difficulty until morning, giving Jones
time to place his wounded on the Serapis, and to save such of her fittings as could be removed.
The Pallas, another of Jones's ships, had captured the Scarborough, and with these prizes,
Jones put back to France. He was welcomed with great enthusiasm there, received the thanks
of the Congress, and was designated to command the ship-of-the-line then building. But he fought
no more battles under the Stars and Stripes. After a brief service with Russia, he returned
to Paris, broken in health, and died there in 1792. His body was only recently brought to this
country and interred with national honors at Annapolis.

We have said that there was only one other naval commander of the Revolution whose name shines
with any lustre to-day--Nicholas Biddle. His career was a brief and brilliant one. Born in
Philadelphia, he had gone to sea at the age of thirteen, was cast away on a desert island,
was rescued, and enlisted in the English navy, but returned to America as soon as revolution
threatened. He was given command of a little brig called the Andrea Doria, took a number of
prizes, and made so good a record that in 1776 he was appointed to command the new frigate,
Randolph. Using Charleston, South Carolina, as his base, he captured four prizes within a few
days, but on his second cruise, fell in with a British sixty-four, the Yarmouth. After a sharp
action of twenty minutes, fire got into the magazine of the Randolph, in some way, and she
blew up, only four of her crew of 310 escaping. The blow was a heavy one to the American navy,
for Biddle was its best commander, next to Jones, and the Randolph was its best ship. Luckily
the French alliance placed the French fleet at the disposal of the colonies--or Cornwallis
would never have been captured at Yorktown.

It is one of our polite fictions that the United States has always been victorious in war;
but, as a matter of fact, we were not victorious in the second war with England, and, when
the treaty of peace came to be signed, abandoned practically all the contentions which war
had been declared to maintain. On land, the war was, for the most part, a series of costly
blunders, beginning with the surrender of Detroit, and closing with the sack of Washington,
and had England had her hands free of Napoleon, the result for us might have been very serious.
The only considerable and decisive victory won by American arms was that of Andrew Jackson
at New Orleans--a battle fought after the treaty of peace had been signed.

But on the ocean there was a different story--a series of brilliant victories which, while
they did not seriously cripple the great English navy, caused Canning to declare in Parliament
that "the sacred spell of the invincibility of the British navy is broken." The heaviest blow
was struck to British commerce, no less than sixteen hundred English merchantmen falling victims
to privateers and ships-of-war.

The group of men who commanded the American vessels was a most remarkable one, and their fighting
qualities were worthy in every way of John Paul Jones. First blood was drawn by David Porter,
illustrious scion of a family which gave five generations to brilliant service in the navy.
On August 13, 1812, Porter, with the Essex, engaged in a sharp battle with the British ship
Alert, which, after an action of eight minutes, surrendered in a sinking condition. He had
seen hard service before that, had been twice impressed by British vessels and twice escaped,
had fought French and pirates, and spent some time in a prison in Tripoli.

After his capture of the Alert, he went on a cruise in the Pacific, destroying the English
whale fisheries there, capturing booty valued at two and a half million dollars, and taking
four hundred prisoners. So great was the damage he inflicted, that a British squadron was fitted
out and sent to the Pacific to capture him, found him in a partially disabled condition in
the harbor of Valparaiso, and, disregarding the neutrality of the port, sailed in and attacked
him. The engagement lasted two hours and a half, the Essex finally surrendering when reduced
to a helpless wreck. On the Essex at the time was a midshipman aged twelve years, who got his
first taste of fighting there, and whose name was destined to become, after that of Paul Jones,
the most famous in American naval history--David Glasgow Farragut.

Less than a week after Porter's victory over the Alert, another and much more important one
was won by Captain Isaac Hull in the frigate Constitution--"Old Ironsides"--the most famous
ship-of-war the navy has ever possessed. Isaac Hull was a nephew of General William Hull, who,
on August 16, 1812, surrendered Detroit and his entire army to the British without striking
a blow. Three days later, Isaac Hull, having sailed from Boston without orders, in his anxiety
to meet the enemy and for fear the command of the Constitution would be given to some one else--a
breach of discipline for which he would probably have been court-martialled and shot, had the
cruise ended disastrously--fell in with the powerful British frigate Guerrière. Inscribed across
the Guerrière's mainsail in huge red letters were the words:

    All who meet me have a care,
    I am England's Guerrière.

She was a powerful vessel, but neither the vessel nor the menace frightened Hull, and he sailed
straight for her, holding his fire until he was within fifty yards, when he let fly a broadside
and then another, which sent two of her masts by the board, and the third soon followed, leaving
her unmanageable. Within a very few minutes, under Hull's raking fire, she was reduced to a
"perfect wreck"--so perfect, in fact, that she had to be blown up and sunk, as there was no
chance of getting her back to port. The Constitution was practically uninjured, and Hull sailed
back to Boston, with his ship crowded with British prisoners. He was welcomed with the wildest
enthusiasm, banquets were given in his honor, swords voted him by state legislatures, New York
ordered a portrait painted of him, and Congress gave him a gold medal. The War Department discreetly
permitted his disobedience of orders to drop out of sight.

Hull's victory was not the result of accident, but of long and careful training. He had begun
his sea career in the merchant service at the age of fourteen, was a captain at the age of
twenty, and entered the navy in 1798. He soon gained a high reputation for seamanship, and
his genius for handling a ship under all conditions was one of the most important factors in
his success. He saved his ship on one occasion, when she was becalmed and practically surrounded
by a powerful British fleet, by "kedging"--in other words, sending a row-boat out with an anchor,
which was dropped as far ahead as the boat could take it, and the ship pulled up to it by means
of the windlass. As soon as the British saw him doing this, they tried it too, but Hull managed
to get away from them by almost superhuman exertions. He served in the navy for many years
after his memorable victory over the Guerrière, but never achieved another so notable.

The second capture of a British frigate in the war of 1812 was made by Stephen Decatur, who
had distinguished himself years before by an exploit which Lord Nelson called "the most daring
act of the age." Decatur, who possessed in unusual degree the dash and brilliance so valuable
in a naval commander, came naturally by his love of the sea, for his grandfather had been an
officer in the French navy, and his father was a captain in the navy of the United States.

Entering the service at the age of eighteen, his first cruise was in the frigate, United States,
which he was afterwards to command. He rose steadily in the service and got his first command
six years later, being given the sixteen-gun brig Argus, and sent with Commodore Preble to
assist in subduing the Barbary corsairs.

It is difficult to-day to realize that there was a time when the United States paid tribute
to anybody, more especially to a power so insignificant as the Barbary States. Yet such was
the fact. Lying along the north coast of Africa were the half-civilized states of Morocco,
Tunis, Tripoli, and Algiers, and most of their income was from piracy. All merchantmen were
their prey; they divided the loot and sold the crews into slavery. Many nations, to secure
immunity from these outrages, paid a stated sum yearly to these powers, and the United States
was one of them.

Why the nations did not join together and wipe the pirates out of existence is difficult to
understand, but so it was. On one occasion, Congress actually revoked an order for some new
ships for the navy, and used the appropriation to buy off the Barbary powers. The fund was
known as the "Mediterranean Fund," and was intrusted to the secretary of state to expend as
might be necessary. But after a while, the Barbary powers became so outrageous in their demands,
that it occurred to the State Department that there might be another way of dealing with them,
and a squadron under Commodore Preble was sent to the Mediterranean for the purpose.

Shortly before he reached there, the U.S. frigate Philadelphia, commanded by Captain Bainbridge,
had gone upon a reef just outside the harbor of Tripoli and had been surrounded and captured,
with all her crew, by the Tripolitan gunboats. The Tripolitans got her off the rocks, towed
her into the harbor, and anchored her close under the guns of their forts. They also strengthened
her batteries, and prepared her for a cruise, which could not but have been disastrous to our
shipping. It was evident that she must be destroyed before she got out of the harbor, and Stephen
Decatur volunteered to lead a party into the harbor on this desperate mission. Commodore Preble
hesitated to accept Decatur's offer, for he knew how greatly against success the odds were,
but finally, in January, 1804, he told him to go ahead.

A small vessel known as a ketch had recently been captured from the Tripolitans, and Decatur
selected this in which to make the venture. He took seventy men from his own vessel, and, on
the night of February 15, sailed boldly into the harbor of Tripoli. Let us pause for a minute
to consider the odds against him. First there was the Philadelphia with her forty guns double-shotted
and ready to fire; half a gunshot away was the Bashaw's castle, the mole and crown batteries,
while within range were ten other batteries, mounting, all told, a hundred and fifteen guns.
Between the Philadelphia and the shore lay a number of Tripolitan cruisers, galleys and gunboats.
Into this hornet's nest, Decatur steered his little vessel of sixty tons, carrying four small
guns, and having a crew of only seventy men.

The Tripolitans saw the vessel entering the harbor, but supposed it to be one of their own
until it was alongside the Philadelphia. Then there was a cry of "Americanos!" and a rush to
quarters, but it was too late, for Decatur and his men swarmed up the side and over the rail
of the Philadelphia, and charged the dismayed and panic-stricken Tripolitans. There was a short
and desperate struggle, and five minutes later, the ship was cleared of the enemy.

It was manifestly impossible to get the Philadelphia out of the harbor, so Decatur gave the
order to burn her. Combustibles had been prepared in advance, and in a moment, flames began
to break out in all parts of the ship. Then the order was given to return to the ketch, the
cable was cut, the sweeps got out, and the ketch drew rapidly away from the burning vessel.
The sounds of the mêlée had awakened the troops on shore, and, as the harbor was lighted by
the flames from the Philadelphia, the shore batteries opened upon the little vessel, but without
doing her any serious damage, and Decatur got safely out of the harbor and back to the fleet
without losing a man.

Shortly afterwards his life was saved by one of those acts of heroism which stir the blood.
In a general attack upon the Tripolitan gunboats, Decatur laid his ship alongside one of the
enemy, grappled with her and boarded. Decatur was the first over the side and a desperate hand-to-hand
combat followed. The pirate captain, a gigantic fellow, soon met Decatur face to face, and
stood on tiptoe to deal him a tremendous blow with his scimitar. Decatur rushed in under the
swinging sword, grappled with him, and they fell to the deck together, when another Tripolitan
raised his scimitar to deal the American a fatal blow. A young sailor named Reuben James, himself
with both arms disabled from sword cuts, seeing his beloved captain's peril, interposed his
own head beneath the descending sword and received a wound which marked him for life. An instant
later, Decatur's crew rallied to him, killed the pirate captain and drove the remainder of
his crew over the side into the sea.

At the outbreak of the war of 1812, Decatur was given command of the United States, and on
the morning of October 25, overhauled the British frigate Macedonian near the Canary Islands.
Seventeen minutes later, the Macedonian, with a third of her crew dead, hauled down her colors.
Decatur had lost only twelve men killed and wounded, and placing a crew aboard his prize, got
her safely to New York. This victory was soon followed by disaster, for, securing command of
the President, a frigate mounting forty-four guns, he attempted to get past the British blockade
of New York harbor, but ran into a squadron of the enemy, and, after a running fight lasting
thirty hours, was overhauled by a superior force and compelled to surrender. Decatur was taken
captive to Bermuda, but was soon parolled, and, after commanding a squadron in the Mediterranean,
built himself a house at Washington, expecting to spend the remainder of his days there in
honorable retirement.

But it was not to be. In 1816, Decatur, while a member of the board of navy commissioners,
had occasion to censure Commodore James Barron. Barron considered himself insulted, and a long
correspondence followed, which finally resulted in Barron challenging Decatur to fight a duel.
Under the code of honor then in vogue, Decatur could do nothing but accept, and the meeting
took place at Bladensburg, Maryland, March 22, 1820. At the word "fire," Barron fell wounded
in the hip, where Decatur had said he would shoot him, while Decatur himself received a wound
in the abdomen from which he died that night. He was, all in all, one of the most brilliant
and efficient men the navy ever boasted; and he will be remembered, too, for his immortal toast:
"My country: may she be always right; but, right or wrong, my country!"

Closely associated with Decatur in some of his exploits was William Bainbridge, as handsome,
impetuous and daring a sailor as ever trod a deck. Bainbridge, who was five years younger than
Decatur, began his seafaring career at the age of sixteen, and three years later was in command
of a merchantman. He entered the navy at its reorganization in 1798, and two years later was
appointed to command the George Washington, a ship of twenty-eight guns.

Bainbridge's first duty was to carry a tribute of half a million dollars to the Dey of Algiers,
according to the arrangement made by the Secretary of State which we have already mentioned.
The errand was a hateful one to Bainbridge, as it would have been to any American sailorman;
but he was in the navy to obey orders, and in September, 1800, he reached Algiers and anchored
in the harbor and delivered the tribute. But when he had done this, the Dey sent word that
he had a cargo of slaves and wild beasts for the Sultan of Turkey at Constantinople, and that
Bainbridge must take them, or his ship would be taken from him and he and his crew sold into
slavery.

There was nothing to do but consent, since the ship was wholly in the Dey's power, so to Constantinople
Bainbridge sailed her. When a boat was sent ashore there to announce her arrival, the Turks
were greatly astonished, for they had never heard of a nation called the United States, and
did not know that there was a great continent on the other side of the world. It makes us feel
less self-important, sometimes, when we stop to consider that about one half the human race,
even at the present day, have no idea of our existence.

Well, Bainbridge delivered his cargo, and then sailed back to Algiers with orders from the
Sultan to the Dey. He delivered these to the Dey, and in accordance with them, the Dey immediately
declared war on France, and notified all the French in Algiers that if they had not left his
dominions within forty-eight hours, they would be sold into slavery. There was no French ship
in the harbor, and it looked, for a time, as though, the French would not be able to get away,
but as soon as he learned of their predicament, Bainbridge gathered them together and took
them over to Spain--an act for which he received the personal thanks of Napoleon Bonaparte.

Bainbridge was, of course, glad to get away from Algiers, but he had by no means seen the last
of the Barbary pirates. Returning to the United States, he was given command of the Philadelphia,
and sent back to the Mediterranean with Commodore Preble's squadron to give the pirates a lesson.
The Philadelphia went on ahead to Tripoli and began a vigorous blockade of that port, but,
in chasing a Tripolitan vessel which was trying to enter the harbor, ran hard and fast on an
uncharted reef, and keeled over so far that her guns were useless. The Tripolitans were not
long in discovering her predicament, swarmed out of the harbor in their gunboats, and soon
had the American vessel at their mercy.

With what bitterness of spirit Bainbridge hauled down his flag may be imagined. He and his
men were taken ashore and imprisoned and their vessel was got off the reef and towed into the
harbor. From the window of their prison, the Americans could see her riding at anchor, flying
the flag of Tripoli, and the sight did not render their imprisonment more pleasant. But one
night, they heard shots in the harbor, and, looking out, beheld the Philadelphia in flames,
and the little ketch bearing Decatur and his men fading rapidly away through the darkness toward
the harbor mouth. Six months later, they watched the American assault upon the harbor, but
their hearts fell when the American squadron finally gave up the attempt and withdrew. It was
not until the following year that peace was made, and Bainbridge and his men released, after
a captivity of nineteen months. Never since that time has the United States paid tribute to
any nation.

When the second war with England began, President Madison and his advisers thought it foolhardy
to attempt to oppose Great Britain on the ocean, for she had the strongest fleet of any nation
in the world, and so decided to confine the war entirely to land. It was Bainbridge who brought
about a change of this unwise policy by impassioned pleading, to the everlasting glory of the
American navy. Hull resigned the Constitution to him, after his victory over the Guerrière--it
was really for fear that Bainbridge would get command of the ship that Hull had sailed from
Boston without orders--and Bainbridge sailed for the South Atlantic, and captured the British
frigate Java, after a terrific fight, in which he was himself seriously wounded. This was his
last fight, though the years which followed saw him in many important commands. For sheer romance
and adventure, his career has seldom been excelled.

Another hero of the war of 1812, whose name is associated with a deed of imperishable gallantry,
was James Lawrence. He had entered the navy as midshipman in 1798, at the age of eighteen,
and served in the war against Tripoli, first under Hull and then under Decatur, and accompanied
the latter on the expedition which destroyed the Philadelphia. But the deed by which he is
best remembered is his fight with the British frigate Shannon. In the spring of 1813, he was
assigned to the command of the frigate Chesapeake, a vessel hated by the whole navy because
of the bad luck which seemed to pursue her. Lawrence accepted the command reluctantly, and
proceeded to Boston, where she was lying, to prepare her for a voyage.

A crew was secured with great difficulty, most of them being foreigners, and his officers were
all young and inexperienced. What the crew and officers alike needed was a practice cruise
to put them in shape to meet the enemy, and Lawrence knew this better than anybody, but when
the British frigate Shannon appeared outside the harbor with a challenge for a battle, Lawrence,
feeling that to refuse would be dishonorable, hoisted anchor and sailed out to meet her.

The Shannon was one of the finest frigates in the English navy, manned by an experienced crew,
and commanded by Philip Broke, one of the best officers serving under the Union Jack. The ships
ranged up together and broadsides were delivered with terrible effect. Lawrence was wounded
in the leg, but kept the deck. Then the ships fouled, and Lawrence called for boarders, but
his crew, frightened at the desperate nature of the conflict, did not respond, and a moment
later he fell, shot through the body. As he was borne below, he kept shouting, "Don't give
up the ship! Fight her till she strikes or sinks! Don't give up the ship!" his voice growing
weaker and weaker as his life ebbed away.

The battle was soon over, after that, for the British boarded, the Chesapeake's foreign crew
threw down their arms, and the triumphant enemy hauled down the Chesapeake's flag. A few days
later, the two ships sailed into the harbor of Halifax, Lawrence's body, wrapped in his ship's
flag, lying in state on the quarter-deck. He was buried with military honors, first at Halifax,
and then at New York, where Hull, Stewart and Bainbridge were among those who carried the pall.
His cry, "Don't give up the ship!" was to be the motto of another battle, far to the west,
where Great Britain experienced the greatest defeat of the war.

Before describing it, however, let us speak briefly of four other valiant men, whose deeds
redounded to the honor of their country--Edward Preble, Charles Stewart, Johnston Blakeley,
and Thomas Macdonough. It was said of Preble that he had the worst temper and the best heart
in the world. At sixteen years of age he ran away to sea, and two years later, he actually
saw a sea-serpent, a hundred and fifty feet in length and as big around as a barrel, and got
close enough to fire at it. He saw service in the Revolution, and in 1803, was appointed to
command the expedition against the Barbary corsairs, of which we have already spoken, and which
resulted in bringing those pirates to their knees. The trials of that expedition ruined his
health, and he survived it but a few years.

To Charles Stewart belongs the remarkable exploit of engaging and capturing two British ships
at the same time. Enlisting in 1798, he was with Preble at Tripoli, and was given command of
the Constitution, after Bainbridge's successful cruise in her, and started out in search of
adventure on December 17, 1814. Two months later, off the Madeira Islands he sighted two British
ships-of-war and at once gave chase. He overhauled them at nightfall, and, running between
them, gave them broadside after broadside, until both struck their colors. They were the Cyane
and the Levant. Stewart got back to New York the middle of May to find out that peace had been
declared over a month before his encounter with the British ships.

He was received with enthusiasm, and "Old Ironsides" got the reputation of being invincible.
Her career had, indeed, been remarkable. She had done splendid work before Tripoli, escaped
twice from British squadrons and seven times run the blockade through strong British fleets;
she had captured three frigates and a sloop-of-war, besides many merchantmen, and had taken
more than eleven hundred prisoners. From all of these engagements she had emerged practically
unscathed, and in none of them had she lost more than nine men. Stewart was the last survivor
of the great captains of 1812, living until 1869, having been carried on the navy list for
seventy-one years.

Johnston Blakeley was a South Carolinian, and won renown by a remarkable cruise in the Wasp.
The Wasp was a stout and speedy sloop, carrying twenty-two guns and a crew of one hundred and
seventy men, and in 1814 she sailed from the United States, and headed for the English Channel,
to carry the war into the enemy's country, after the fashion of Paul Jones. The Channel, of
course, was traversed constantly by English fleets and squadrons and single ships-of-war, and
here the Wasp sailed up and down, capturing and destroying merchantmen, and, by the skill and
vigilance of her crew and commander, escaping an encounter with any frigate or ship-of-the-line.

But one June morning, while chasing two merchantmen, she sighted the British brig Reindeer,
and at once prepared for action. The Reindeer accepted the challenge, and after some broadsides
had been exchanged, the ships fouled and the British boarded. A desperate struggle followed,
in which the English commander was killed. Then the boarders were driven back, and the Americans
boarded in their turn, and in a minute had the Reindeer in their possession. Her colors were
hauled down, she was set afire, and the Wasp continued her cruise.

Late one September afternoon, British ships of war appeared all around her, and selecting one
which seemed isolated from the others, Captain Blakeley decided to try to run alongside and
sink her after nightfall. She was the eighteen-gun brig Avon, a bigger ship than the Wasp,
but Blakeley ran alongside, discharged his broadsides, and soon had the Avon in a sinking condition.
She struck her flag, but before Blakeley could secure his prize, two other British ships came
up and he was forced to flee.

Soon afterwards, he encountered a convoy of ships bearing arms and munitions to Wellington's
army, under the care of a great three-decker. Blakeley sailed boldly in, and, evading the three-decker's
movements, actually cut out and captured one of the transports and made his escape. Then she
sailed for home, and that was the last ever heard of the Wasp. She never again appeared, and
her fate has never been determined. But when she sank, if sink she did, there went to the bottom
one of the gallantest ships and bravest captains in the American navy.

All of the battles which we have thus far described were fought on salt water, but two great
victories were won on inland waters, and of one of these Thomas Macdonough was the hero. He
had entered the navy in 1800, at the age of seventeen, served before Tripoli, and accompanied
Decatur on the expedition which burned the Philadelphia. At the outbreak of the second war
with England, he was sent to Lake Champlain, and set about the building of a fleet to repel
the expected British invasion from Canada. The British were also busy at the other end of the
lake, and on September 9, 1814, Macdonough sailed his fleet of fourteen boats, ten of which
were small gunboats, and the largest of which, the Saratoga, was merely a corvette, into Plattsburg
Bay, and anchored there.

The abdication of Napoleon had enabled England to turn her undivided attention to America,
and one great force was sent against New Orleans, while another was concentrated in Canada,
for the purpose of invading New York by way of Lake Champlain. On this latter enterprise, a
force of twelve thousand regulars started from Montreal early in August, while the British
naval force on the lake was augmented to nineteen vessels. On September 11, this fleet got
under way, and, certain of victory, sailed into Plattsburg Bay and attacked Macdonough. A terrific
battle followed, in which the Saratoga had every gun on one side disabled and had to wear around
under fire in order to use those on the other side. But three hours later, every British flag
had been struck, and the land force, seeing their navy defeated, retreated hastily to Canada.
So riddled were both squadrons that in neither of them did a mast remain upon which sail could
be made.

But the greatest victory of the war, the one which had the most important and far-reaching
consequences, had been won a year before, far to the west, on the blue waters of Lake Erie,
by Oliver Hazard Perry, at that time only twenty-eight years of age. Perry came of a seafaring
stock, for his father was a captain in the navy, and the boy's first voyage was made with him
in 1799. At the outbreak of the war of 1812, he was in command of a division of gunboats at
Newport, but finding that, owing to the British blockade, there was little chance of his seeing
active service in that position, he asked to be sent to the Great Lakes, whose possession we
were preparing to dispute with England.

The importance of this mission can hardly be overestimated. To Perry was assigned the task
of stopping this project, and of regaining control of the lake.

He arrived at Lake Erie in the spring of 1813, and proceeded at once to build the fleet which
was to sail under the Stars and Stripes. He showed the utmost skill and energy in doing this,
and by the middle of July, in spite of many difficulties, had nine vessels ready to meet the
enemy--two brigs and two gunboats which he had built, and five small boats which were brought
up from the Niagara river. On the third of August, he sailed out to meet the British, his ships
being manned by a motley crew of "blacks, soldiers, and boys."

The flagship had been named the Lawrence, after the heroic commander of the Chesapeake. Luckily
the English were not ready for battle, and Perry had a month in which to drill his men before
the enemy sailed out to meet him. At last, on the morning of Saturday, September 10, 1813,
the British fleet was seen approaching, and Perry formed his ships in line of battle.

The British squadron consisted of six vessels, mounting 63 guns, and manned by 502 men. The
American ships mounted 54 guns, with 490 men. Although of smaller total weight than the American
guns, the British guns were longer and would carry farther, and so were much more effective.
The British crews, too, were better disciplined, a large number of the men being from the royal
navy, and the squadron was commanded by Robert Heriot, a man of much experience, who had fought
under Nelson at Trafalgar.

The American shore was lined with an anxious crowd, who appreciated the great issues which
hung upon the battle. Perry, calling his men aft, produced a blue banner bearing in white letters
the last words of the man after whom the Lawrence was named: "Don't give up the ship!"

"Shall I hoist it, boys?" he asked.

"Aye, aye, sir!" they shouted, and the bunting was run up to the main-royal masthead. Then
a hush fell upon the water as the two fleets drew together. A few minutes before noon the engagement
began, Perry heading straight for the flagship of the enemy, and drawing the fire of practically
the whole British squadron by running ahead of the other ships, which, owing to the light breeze,
could not get within range. For two hours, he fought against these hopeless odds, and almost
without support, until his ship was reduced to a wreck and only one of her guns could be worked,
while of her crew of 103, only twenty were left on their feet. Every nook and corner of the
brig was occupied by some wounded and dying wretch seeking vainly to find shelter from the
British fire. Even the cockpit, where the wounded were carried for treatment, was not safe,
for some of the men were killed while under the surgeon's hands. No fewer than six cannon balls
passed through the cockpit, while two went through the magazine, which, by some miracle, did
not explode. The ship was so disabled, at last, that it drifted out of action, and Perry, taking
his pennant and the blue flag bearing the words "Don't give up the ship!" under his arm, got
into a boat with four seamen, and started for the Niagara, his other brig.

The British saw the little boat dancing over the waves, and after a moment of dazed astonishment
at a manoeuvre unheard of in naval warfare and daring almost to madness, concentrated their
fire on it. One cannon ball penetrated the boat, but Perry, stripping off his coat, stuffed
it into the hole and so kept the boat afloat until the Niagara was reached. Clambering on board,
Perry ran up his flags, reformed his line, closed with the enemy, raked them, engaged them
at close quarters, where their long guns gave them no advantage, and conducted an onslaught
so terrific that, twenty minutes later, the entire British squadron had hauled down their flags.

Perry at once rowed back to the Lawrence, and upon her splintered and bloodstained deck, received
the surrender of the British officers. Then, using his cap for a desk, he wrote with a pencil
on the back of an old letter the famous message announcing the victory: "We have met the enemy
and they are ours--two ships, two brigs, two schooners and one sloop." More than that was ours,
for the victory, and the prompt advance of General Harrison which followed it, compelled the
British to evacuate Detroit and Michigan, and to abandon forever the attempt to annex the West
to Canada. Half a century later, when the great Erie canal was opened, the guns of Perry's
fleet, placed at ten-mile intervals along its banks, announced the departure of the first fleet
of boats from Buffalo, carrying the news to New York City, a distance of 360 miles, in an hour
and twenty minutes.

Perry lived only six years longer, dying while still a young man, in the saddest possible manner.
In June, 1819, he was given command of a squadron designed to protect American trade in South
American waters, and while ascending the Orinoco, contracted the yellow fever, and died a few
days later. He was buried at Trinidad, but some years afterwards, a ship-of-war brought him
home, and he sleeps at Newport, Rhode Island, near the spot where he was born.

So ends the story of that group of naval commanders, who dealt so surprising and terrific a
blow at the tradition of English supremacy on the ocean.

       *       *       *       *       *

The brother of the victor of Lake Erie, Matthew Calbraith Perry, must also be mentioned here,
for his was a unique achievement--the peaceful conquest of a great Eastern empire. Born in
1794, and educated in the best traditions of the navy, he was selected to command the expedition
which, in 1853, was ordered to visit Japan, that strange nation of the Orient which, up to
that time, had kept her ports closed to foreign commerce. Perry's conduct of this delicate
mission was notable in the extreme, and its result was the signing of a treaty between Japan
and the United States which has long been regarded as one of the greatest diplomatic triumphs
of the age.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the spring of 1861, a captain of the United States navy was living at Norfolk, Va., his
home, the home of his wife's family, and the home of his closest friends. Excitement ran high,
for it was as yet an open question whether or not the great state of Virginia would join her
sisters farther south and renounce her allegiance to the Union. It was a time of searching
of hearts, and this man of sixty years was brought face to face with the bitterest moment of
his life. He must choose between his country and his state; between his flag and the love and
respect of his relatives and friends.

In the end, the flag won. It was the flag he had taken his boyish oath to honor; on more than
one occasion, he had seen the haughtiest colors on the ocean bow with respect before it; he
had seen men, writhing in the agony of death, expend their last breath to defend it. It had
wrapped itself about his heart, and meant more to him than home or friends or kindred. So the
flag won.

On the seventeenth day of April, 1861, Virginia seceded from the Union. The day following,
our gray-haired captain, expressing the opinion that secession was not the will of the majority
of the people, but that the state had been dragooned out of the Union by a coterie of politicians,
was told that he could no longer live in Norfolk.

"Very well," he answered, "I can live somewhere else."

He went home and told his wife that the time had come when she must choose whether she would
remain with her own kinsfolk or follow him. Her choice was made on the instant, and within
two hours, David Glasgow Farragut, his wife and their only son, were on a steamer headed for
the North. A few days later, he offered his services to the Union.

Before going forward with him upon his great career, let us cast a glance over his boyhood--such
a boyhood as falls to the lot of not one in a million. Born in 1801, of a father who had served
in the Revolution and who was afterwards to become a friend and companion of Andrew Jackson,
his childhood was passed amid the dangers and alarms of the Tennessee frontier. In 1808 occurred
the incident which paved the way for his entrance into the navy. While fishing on Lake Pontchartrain,
his father fell in with a boat in which was lying an old man prostrated by the heat of the
sun. Farragut took him at once to his own home, where he was tenderly cared for, but he died
a few days later. The sufferer was David Porter, father of Captain Porter of the Essex, at
that time in charge of the naval station at New Orleans.

Captain Porter was informed of the accident to his father, and hastened to the home of the
Farraguts. He felt deeply their kindness, and as some slight return, offered to adopt one of
the Farragut children, take him North with him, and do what he could for his advancement. Young
David promptly said that he would go, the arrangements were concluded, and the boy of seven
accompanied his new protector to Washington. He spent two years at school there, and then,
on December 17, 1810, at the age of nine, received an appointment as midshipman in the United
States navy. Two years later, he accompanied Porter in the Essex on that memorable trip around
Cape Horn.

Porter took so many prizes in the South Pacific that his supply of older officers ran out,
and twelve-year old David Farragut was appointed prize-master of one of them, with orders to
take her to Valparaiso. When Farragut gave his first order, her skipper, a hot-tempered old
sea-dog, flew into a rage, and declaring that he had "no idea of trusting himself with a blamed
nutshell," rushed below for his pistols. The twelve-year-old commander shouted after him that,
if he came on deck again, he would be thrown overboard, and thenceforth was master of the ship.
He was back on the Essex again when she was attacked in Valparaiso harbor by a British squadron,
and got his baptism of fire in one of the hardest-fought naval battles in history.

From that time until the outbreak of the Civil War, his life was spent in the most active service,
and he rose to the rank of captain. As has been seen, he cast in his lot with the North, and
asked for active duty at once, but it was not until eight months later that the summons came.
When it did come, it was of a nature to fill him with the most unbounded enthusiasm. The national
government had determined to attempt to send a fleet past the formidable forts at the mouth
of the Mississippi, for the purpose of capturing New Orleans. Farragut was sent for, shown
the list of vessels which were preparing for the expedition, and asked if he thought it could
succeed. He answered that he would undertake to do it with two-thirds the number, and when
he was told that he was to command the expedition, his delight knew no bounds. He felt that
his chance had come. On the second of February, 1862, he sailed out of Hampton Roads with a
squadron of seventeen vessels, and turned his prow to the south.

The task which had been set him was one to give the stoutest heart pause. Twenty miles above
the mouth of the Mississippi were two formidable forts and a number of water batteries, with
combined armaments greatly superior to those of Farragut's fleet. A great barrier of logs stretched
across the river, while farther up lay a Confederate fleet of fifteen vessels, one of which
was an ironclad ram. A strong force of Confederate sharpshooters was stationed along either
bank, and a number of fire-rafts were ready to be lighted and sent down against the Union fleet.
It was against these obstacles that Farragut, after a week of preliminary attack, started up
the river in his wooden vessels at three o'clock in the morning of April 24, 1862.

As soon as the Confederates descried the advancing fleet, they lighted great fires along the
banks and opened a terrific cannonade. Blazing fire-rafts threw a lurid glare against the sky.
The fleet, pausing a few minutes to discharge their broadsides into the forts, steamed on up
the river; Farragut's flagship grounded under the guns of Fort St. Philip, and a fireship,
blazing a hundred feet in the air, floated against her and set her on fire, but the flames
were extinguished, the flagship backed off, and headed again up the stream. Before the coming
of dawn, the entire fleet, with the exception of three small boats, had passed the forts and
were grappling with the Confederate squadron above. Of this, short work was made. Some of the
enemy's vessels were driven ashore, some were run down, others were riddled with shot--and
the proudest city of the South lay at Farragut's mercy.

On the first day of May, the United States troops under General Butler, marched into the city,
and Farragut, glad to be relieved of an unpleasant task, proceeded up the river, ran by the
batteries at Vicksburg, assisted at the reduction of Port Hudson, and finally sailed for New
York in his flagship, the Hartford, arriving there in August, 1863. He had already been commissioned
rear-admiral, and he was given a most enthusiastic reception, for his passage of the Mississippi
was recognized as an extraordinary feat. An examination of his ship showed that she had been
struck 240 times by shot and shell in her nineteen months of service.

Immediately after the surrender of New Orleans, Farragut had desired to proceed against the
port of Mobile, Alabama, which was so strongly fortified that all attempts to close it had
been in vain, and which was the only important port left open to the Confederates. But the
government decided that Mobile could wait a while, and sent him, instead, to open the Mississippi.
That task accomplished, the time had come for him to attempt the greatest of his career--greater,
even, than his capture of New Orleans, and much more hazardous. In the spring of 1864, he was
in the Gulf, preparing for the great enterprise.

Mobile harbor was defended by works so strong and well-placed that it was considered well-nigh
impregnable. The Confederates had realized the importance of keeping this, their last port,
open, so that they could communicate with the outer world, and had spared no pains to render
it so strong that they believed no attack could subdue it. Two great forts, armed with heavy
and effective artillery, guarded the entrance; the winding channel was filled with torpedoes,
and in the inner harbor was a fleet of gunboats, and, most powerful of all, the big, ironclad
ram, Tennessee. In charge of the Tennessee was the same man who had guided the Merrimac on
her fatal visit to Hampton Roads, Franklin Buchanan, but the Tennessee was a much more powerful
vessel than the Merrimac had ever been, and it was thought that nothing afloat could stand
against her.

It was this position, then, which, at daybreak of August 5, 1864, Farragut sailed in to assault.
His fleet consisted of four ironclad monitors, and fourteen wooden vessels, and his preparations
were made most carefully, for he fully realized the gravity of the task before him. He himself
was in his old flagship, the Hartford, and mounting into the rigging to be above the smoke,
he was lashed fast there, so that he would not fall to the deck, in case a bullet struck him.
The thought of that brave old leader taking that exposed position so that he might handle his
fleet more ably will always be a thrilling one--and the event proved how wise he was in choosing
it.

The word was given, and, at half past six in the morning, the monitors took their stations,
while the wooden ships formed in column, the plan being for the monitors, with their iron sides,
to steam in between the wooden ships and the forts, and so protect them as much as possible.
The light vessels were lashed each to the left of one of the heavier ones, so that each pair
of ships was given a double chance to escape, should one be rendered helpless by a shot in
the boiler, or in some other vital portion of her machinery. The Brooklyn was at the head of
the column, while the Hartford came second, and the others followed. In this order, the fleet
advanced to the attack.

There was an unwonted stillness on the ships as they swung in towards the harbor mouth, for
every man felt within him a vague unrest caused by one awful and mysterious peril, the torpedoes.
For the forts, the gunboats, even the great ironclad, the men cared nothing--they had met such
perils before--but lurking beneath the water was a horror not to be guarded against. They knew
that these deadly mines were scattered along the channel through which they must make their
way, and that any moment might be the end of some proud vessel.

The ships were all in fighting trim, with spars housed and canvas furled, and decks spread
with sawdust so that they would not grow slippery with the blood which was soon to flow. As
the fleet came within range of the forts, a terrific cannonade began, in which the Confederate
ships, stationed just inside the harbor, soon joined. One of them was the great ram, Tennessee,
and the commander of the leading monitor, the Tecumseh, noted her and determined to give her
battle. So he swung his ship toward her and ordered full steam ahead; but an instant later,
there came a sudden dull roar, an uplifting of the water, the boat quivered from stem to stern,
and then plunged, bow first, beneath the waves.

Farragut, from his lofty station, saw the Tecumseh disappear, and then saw the Brooklyn, the
ship ahead of him in the battle line, stop and begin to back. It was an awful moment--the crisis
of the fight and of Farragut's career as well. The ships were halted in a narrow channel, right
beneath the forts; a few moments' delay meant that they would be blown out of the water.

"What's the matter there?" he roared.

"Torpedoes!" came the cry from the Brooklyn's deck, for her captain had perceived a line of
little buoys stretching right across her path.

"Damn the torpedoes!" shouted the admiral. "Go ahead, Captain Drayton," he continued, addressing
his own captain. "Four bells!" and the Hartford, swinging aside, cleared the Brooklyn and took
the lead.

On went the flagship across the line of torpedoes, which could be heard knocking against her
bottom as she passed, but not one of them exploded, and a moment later, one of the most daring
feats in naval history had been accomplished. Farragut had seen, instantly, that the risk must
be taken, and so he took it.

The remainder of the fleet followed the flagship, the forts were passed, and the battle virtually
won. The Confederate fleet, and especially the great ram, was still to be reckoned with, but
before proceeding to that portion of the task, Farragut steamed up the harbor and served breakfast
to his men. Just as this was finished, the Tennessee attacked, and put up a desperate fight,
but finally became unmanageable and was forced to surrender.

So ended the battle of Mobile Bay. It left Farragut's fame secure as one of the greatest sea-captains
of all time; great in daring, in skill, in foresight, and with a coolness and presence of mind
which no peril could shake. Congress created for him the grade of admiral, before unknown in
the United States navy, and the whole country joined in honoring him.

Swinging to and fro with the ebb and flow of the tide at the entrance of Mobile Bay, is a buoy
which marks the spot of a deed of purest heroism. A few fathoms below that buoy lies the monitor
Tecumseh, sunk by a torpedo at the beginning of the battle, as we have seen, and the buoy commemorates,
not the sinking of the ship, but the self-sacrifice of her commander, Tunis Augustus Craven.

Craven had entered the navy at the age of sixteen and had seen much service and distinguished
himself in many ways before he was given command of the Tecumseh and ordered to join Farragut's
squadron. On the morning of the attack, he was given the post of honor at the head of the column,
and determined to come to close quarters with the Tennessee, if he could. But fate intervened,
when his quarry was almost within reach. Craven had stationed himself in the little pilot-house
beside the pilot, the better to direct the movements of his ship, and when he and the pilot
felt that sudden shock and saw the Tecumseh sinking, both of them sprang for the narrow opening
leading from the pilot-house to the turret chamber below. They reached the opening at the same
instant; it was so small that only one could pass at a time, and Craven, with a greatness of
soul found only in heroes, drew back, saying quietly, "After you, pilot."

"There was nothing after me," said the pilot afterwards, "for when I reached the last round
of the ladder, the vessel seemed to drop from under me."

       *       *       *       *       *

At the outbreak of the Civil War, the commerce of the United States was the next to the largest
in the world. The North destroyed southern commerce by capturing or blockading southern ports,
while the South retaliated by fitting out a large number of commerce-destroyers, to range the
seas and take what prizes they could--a plan which had been adopted by America in both wars
with England, and which is the only resource of a power whose navy is greatly inferior to that
of its antagonist.

The bright particular star of the Confederate service was Raphael Semmes, who had been trained
in the United States navy, and who, first in the Sumter and afterwards in the Alabama, captured
a total of seventy-seven prizes, nearly all of which he destroyed. To his capture, the United
States devoted some of its best ships, but it was not until the summer of 1864, that he was
finally cornered.

On Sunday, June 12, 1864, the United States sloop-of-war Kearsarge lay at anchor off the sleepy
town of Flushing, Holland. Her commander, John Ancrum Winslow, had served in the navy of the
United States for thirty-seven years, and had done good work off Vera Cruz in the war with
Mexico, but the crowning achievement of his life was at hand. As his ship lay swinging idly
at her anchor, a boat put off to her, a messenger jumped aboard, and three minutes later a
gun was fired, recalling instantly every member of the ship's company ashore. The message was
from our minister to France and stated that the long-sought Alabama had arrived at Cherbourg.
For nearly two years, Winslow had been searching for that scourge of American shipping, but
Semmes had always eluded him, so it may well be believed that Winslow lost no time in getting
under way. On Tuesday morning, he reached Cherbourg, and breathed a great sigh of relief as
he saw, beyond the breakwater, the flag of the Alabama. He took his station off the port, and
kept a close lookout for fear his enemy would again elude him. But the precaution was unnecessary,
for Semmes had decided to offer battle.

Four days passed, however, with the Kearsarge keeping grim guard. Then, on Sunday morning,
June 19, as the crew of the Kearsarge was at divine service, the officer of the deck reported
a steamer at the harbor-mouth. A moment later, the lookout shouted, "She's coming, and heading
straight for us!" Captain Winslow, putting aside his prayer-book, seized the trumpet, ordered
the decks cleared for action, and put his ship about and bore down on the Alabama.

The two vessels were remarkably well-matched, but the engagement was decisive evidence of the
superior qualities of northern marksmanship. It was, in fact, an exhibition of that magnificent
gunnery which was so evident in the war of 1812, and which was to be shown again in the war
with Spain. Nearly all of the 173 shots fired by the Kearsarge took effect, while of the 370
fired by the Alabama, only 28 reached their target. As a result, at the end of an hour and
a half, the Alabama was sinking, while the Kearsarge was practically uninjured and had lost
only three men. Hauling down her flag, the Alabama tried to run in shore, but suddenly, settling
by the stern, lifted her bow high in the air and plunged to the bottom of the sea. So ended
the career of the Alabama. Winslow received the usual rewards of promotion and the thanks of
Congress, and passed the remainder of his life unadventurously in the navy service.

One other battle remains to be recorded--in some respects the most important in history, because
it revolutionized the construction of battleships, and suddenly rendered all the existing navies
of the world practically useless.

On the eighth day of March, 1862, a powerful squadron of Union vessels lay at anchor in Hampton
Roads, consisting of the Congress, the Cumberland, the St. Lawrence, the Roanoke, and the Minnesota.
It was a beautiful spring morning, and the tall ships rocked lazily at their anchors, while
their crews occupied themselves with routine duties. Shortly before noon, a strange object
was seen approaching down the Elizabeth river. To the Union officers, it looked like the roof
of a large barn belching forth smoke. In reality, it was the Confederate ironclad, Merrimac,
under command of Captain Franklin Buchanan.

Buchanan had, in his day, been one of the most distinguished officers in the United States
navy. He had entered the service in 1815, as midshipman, and won rapid promotion. In 1845,
he was selected by the secretary of the navy to organize the naval academy at Annapolis, and
was its first commandant. He commanded the Germantown at the capture of Vera Cruz, and the
Susquehanna, the flagship of Commodore Perry's famous expedition to Japan. At the outbreak
of the Civil War, he was commandant of the Washington navy-yard, and, being himself a Baltimore
man, resigned from the service after the attack made in Baltimore on the Massachusetts troops
passing through there. Finding that his state did not secede, he withdrew his resignation and
asked to be restored, but for some reason, the secretary of the navy, Gideon Welles, refused
this request, and Buchanan was fairly driven into the enemy's service.

The Confederacy was glad to get him, gave him the rank of captain and put him in charge of
the work at the Norfolk, Virginia, navy-yard. The most important business going forward there
was the reconstruction of the United States frigate, Merrimac. This consisted in building above
her berth-deck sloping bulwarks seven feet high, covered with four inches of iron, and pierced
for ten guns. To her bow, about two feet under water, a cast-iron ram was attached, and on
the eighth of March, she cast loose from her moorings and started down the river. She was scarcely
complete, her crew had never been drilled, she had never fired a gun, nor had her engines made
a single revolution, while the ship itself was merely a bold experiment, which had never made
a trial trip. Yet Buchanan, on reaching Hampton Roads, headed straight for the Union fleet.

There, as soon as the identity of the stranger was discovered, hurried preparations for battle
were made. Decks were cleared, magazines opened, and guns loaded, and as soon as the Merrimac
was in range, the Union ships and shore batteries opened upon her, but such projectiles as
struck her, glanced harmlessly from her iron mail. Not until she was quite near the Cumberland
did the Merrimac return the fire. Then she opened her bow-port and sent a seven-inch shell
through the Cumberland's quarter. The Cumberland answered with a broadside which would have
blown any wooden vessel out of the water, but which affected the Merrimac not at all. Buchanan
had determined to test the power of his ram, and keeping on at full speed, crashed into the
Cumberland's side. Then he backed out, leaving a yawning chasm, through which the water poured
into the doomed ship. She settled rapidly and sank with a roar, her crew firing her guns to
the last moment.

The Merrimac then turned her attention to the Congress, with such deadly effect that that vessel
was forced to surrender after an hour's fighting, in which she was repeatedly hulled and set
on fire. Most of her crew escaped to the shore, and the Confederates completed her destruction
by firing hot shot into her. Evening was at hand by this time, and the Merrimac withdrew, intending
to destroy the other ships in the harbor next morning.

So ended the most disastrous day in the history of the United States navy. Two ships were lost,
and over three hundred men killed or wounded. On the Merrimac, two had been killed and eight
wounded, but the vessel herself, though she had been the target for more than a hundred heavy
guns, was practically uninjured and as dangerous as ever.

Among the wounded was Captain Buchanan, who was forced to relinquish the command of the Merrimac.
For his gallantry, he was thanked by the Confederate Congress, and promoted to full admiral
and senior officer of the Confederate navy. As soon as he recovered from his wound, he was
placed in charge of the naval defenses of Mobile, Alabama, and there superintended the construction
of the ram Tennessee, which he commanded during the action with Farragut two years later. His
handling of the vessel was daring almost to madness, but she became disabled and was forced
to surrender. Buchanan was taken prisoner, and never again took part in any naval action.

Let us return to Hampton Roads.

The news of the disaster to the Union fleet spread gloom and consternation throughout the North,
and corresponding rejoicing throughout the South. The remaining ships in Hampton Roads plainly
lay at the Merrimac's mercy, and after they had been destroyed, there was nothing to prevent
her steaming up the Potomac and attacking Washington. It seemed as if nothing but a miracle
could save the country from awful disaster.

And that miracle was at hand.

Among the coincidences of history, none is more remarkable than the arrival at Hampton Roads
on the night of March 8, 1862, of the strange and freakish-looking craft known as the Monitor.
Proposed to the Navy Department in the preceding fall by John Ericsson, in spite of sneers
and doubts, a contract was given him in October to construct a vessel after his design. The
form of the Monitor is too well known to need description--"a cheese-box on a raft," the name
given her in derision, describes her as well as anything. She was launched on the last day
of January, and three weeks later was handed over to the Government, but it was not until the
fourth of March that her guns were mounted, two powerful rifled cannon. At the request of Ericsson,
she was named the Monitor, and this name came afterwards to be adopted to describe the class
of ships of which she was the first. So dangerous was service in her considered, that volunteers
were called for, and Lieutenant John Lorimer Worden was given command of her.

Worden had entered the navy twenty-seven years before, and at the opening of the Civil War,
had delivered the orders from the secretary of the navy which saved Fort Pickens, in the harbor
of Pensacola, to the Union. Attempting to return North overland, he was arrested and held as
a prisoner seven months, being exchanged just in time to enable him to procure command of the
Monitor. Rumors of the construction of the Merrimac had reached the North, and two days after
her guns were aboard, the Monitor left New York harbor for Hampton Roads. Just after she passed
Sandy Hook, orders recalling her were received there, fortunately too late to be delivered.
By such slight threads do the events of history depend.

Meanwhile, Captain Worden was making such progress southward as he could with his unwieldy
and dangerous craft, which had been designed only for the smooth waters of rivers and harbors
and which was wholly unable to cope with the boisterous Atlantic. There was a brisk wind, and
the vessel was soon in imminent danger of foundering. The waves broke over her smoke-stack
and poured down into her fires, so that steam could not be kept up; the blowers which ventilated
the ship would not work, and she became filled with gas which rendered some of her crew unconscious.
Undoubtedly she would have gone to the bottom very shortly had not the wind moderated. Even
then, it was almost a miracle that she should win through, but win through she did, and at
four o'clock on the afternoon of Saturday, March 8, as she was passing Cape Henry, Captain
Worden heard the distant booming of guns. As darkness came, he saw far ahead the glare of the
burning Congress.

About midnight, the little vessel crept up beside the Minnesota and anchored. Her crew were
completely exhausted. For fifty hours, they had fought to keep their ship afloat, and on the
morrow they must be prepared to meet a formidable foe. All that night they worked with their
vessel, making such repairs as they could. At eight o'clock next morning, the Merrimac appeared,
and the Monitor started to meet her.

Amazed at sight of what appeared to be an iron turret sliding over the water toward him, the
commander of the Merrimac swung toward this tiny antagonist, intending to destroy her before
proceeding to the work in hand. Captain Worden had taken his station in the pilot-house, and
reserved his fire until within short range. Then, slowly circling about his unwieldy foe, he
fired shot after shot, which, while they did not disable her, prevented her from destroying
the Union ships in the harbor. Finding the Monitor apparently invulnerable, and with her machinery
giving trouble, the Merrimac at last withdrew to Norfolk.

That the battle was a victory for the Monitor cannot be questioned; she had prevented the destruction
of the Union ships, and this she continued to do, until, in the following May, the Confederates,
finding themselves compelled to abandon Norfolk, set the Merrimac on fire and blew her up.
Six months later, the Monitor met a tragic fate, foundering in a storm off Cape Hatteras, a
portion of her crew going down with her.

Honors were showered upon Worden for his gallant work. He was given command of the monitor
Montauk, and later on destroyed the Confederate privateer Nashville. After the war, he was
promoted to rear-admiral, and remained in the service until 1886.

There were others in the war whose deeds brought glory to themselves and to the navy--Lieutenant
William B. Cushing, who destroyed the Confederate ram Albemarle in Plymouth harbor, a deed
comparable with the burning of the Philadelphia early in the century; David Dixon Porter, whose
work on the Mississippi was second only to Farragut's, who four times received the thanks of
Congress, and who, in the end, became admiral of the navy; Charles Stuart Boggs, who, in the
sloop-of-war Varuna, sank five Confederate vessels in the river below New Orleans, before he
was himself sunk--but none of them, and, indeed, none of those whose exploits we have given,
measured up to the stature of Farragut, one of the greatest commanders of all time, and, all
things considered, the very greatest in the history of America.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thirty years and more passed after that epoch-making contest between the Monitor and the Merrimac
before the world witnessed another battle to the death between ironclads. Theoretically, wood
had long since been displaced by iron, iron by steel, and steel by specially-forged armor-plate,
battleship designers struggling always to build a vessel which could withstand modern projectiles.
But as to the actual results in warfare, there was nothing but theory to go upon until that
first day of May, 1898, when George Dewey steamed into the harbor of Manila, at the head of
his squadron, and opened fire upon the Spanish fleet.

Dewey had received his training under the best of masters, Farragut. Graduating from Annapolis
in 1858, he served as lieutenant on the Mississippi, when that vessel, as part of Farragut's
fleet, ran past the forts below New Orleans. A short time later, in trying to pass the Confederate
batteries at Port Hudson, the Mississippi ran hard and fast aground. Half an hour was spent,
under a terrific fire, in trying to get her off; then Dewey, after spiking her guns, assisted
in scuttling her and escaped with her captain in a small boat. He saw other active service,
and got his first command in 1870. He was commissioned commodore in 1896, and on January 1,
1898, took command of the Asiatic squadron.

Few people in the world beside himself suspected, even in the dimmest manner, the task which
lay before him; but with a rare sagacity, he had foreseen that, in the event of war with Spain,
the far East would be the scene of operations of the first importance. He thereupon applied
for the command of the Asiatic squadron, and his application was granted. Dewey proceeded immediately
to Hong Kong, and began to concentrate his forces there and to get them into first-class condition.
He spent much of his time studying the charts of the Pacific, and his officers noticed that
the maps of the Philippine Islands soon became worn and marked. On Tuesday, April 26, came
the explanation of all this in a cablegram stating that war had been declared between the United
States and Spain, and ordering Dewey to proceed at once to the Philippine Islands and capture
or destroy the Spanish fleet which was stationed there.

Early the next afternoon, the squadron started on its six hundred mile journey. What lay at
the end of it, no one on the fleet knew. Of the Spanish force, Dewey knew only that twenty-three
Spanish war vessels were somewhere in the Philippines; he knew, too, that they were probably
at Manila, and that the defenses of the harbor were of the strongest description. But he remembered
one of Farragut's sayings, "The closer you get to your enemy, the harder you can strike," and
he lost no time in getting under way.

Dewey's squadron consisted of seven vessels, of which one was a revenue cutter, and two colliers.
He was many thousands of miles from the nearest base of supplies and to fail would mean that
he would have to surrender. So, on that momentous voyage, he drilled and drilled his men, until
their discipline was perfect. On April 30, land was sighted, and precautions were redoubled,
since the enemy might be encountered at any moment. Careful search failed to reveal the Spaniards
in Subig Bay, and at six o'clock in the evening, Dewey announced to his officers that he had
determined to force Manila Bay that night. At nine o'clock the fleet was off the bay, all lights
were extinguished save one at the stern of each ship to serve as a guide for the one following,
and even that light was carefully screened on both sides so that it could not be seen from
the shore. Then the fleet headed for the harbor mouth.

What the defenses of the channel were, no one knew. It was reported to be full of torpedoes.
But perhaps Dewey remembered Farragut at Mobile Bay. At any rate, he did not hesitate, but
kept straight on, and the fleet had almost passed the harbor mouth, before its presence was
discovered. Then the shore batteries opened, but without effect, and the entire squadron passed
safely into the harbor. Then followed long hours of waiting for the dawn, and at five o'clock
came the signal, "Prepare for action," for the Spanish fleet had been sighted at anchor far
down the harbor.

Fifteen minutes later, the Spaniards opened fire, but Dewey went silently on toward his goal.
Suddenly, a short distance away, there was a dull explosion, and a great mass of water and
mud sprang into the air. A mine had been exploded; the fleet had entered the mine fields. Now,
if ever, it would be blown into eternity, but there was no pause in the progress of that silent
line of battle. From the bridge of the Olympia, the most exposed position in the squadron,
Dewey watched the progress of his ships. In the conning tower, eagerly awaiting the word to
fire, was Captain Gridley. At last, with a final glance at the shore, Dewey bent over the rail.

"You may fire when ready, Gridley," he said, quietly.

Ready! Surely that was satire on Dewey's part, for just one second later the bridge under his
feet leaped like a springboard as the great gun beneath it gave the signal. Scarcely had the
shell left the muzzle when an answering roar came from the other ships. The battle had begun,
the Spanish ships were riddled with a shower of bursting shells, their crews cut to pieces,
and the ships themselves set on fire. The guns of the American squadron roared with clocklike
regularity, while the firing from the Spanish ships steadily decreased. Two hours of this work,
and the smoke hung so heavy over the water that it was difficult to distinguish the enemy's ships.

"What time is it, Rees?" asked Dewey, of his executive officer.

"Seven forty-five, sir."

"Breakfast time," said Dewey, with a queer smile. "Run up the signals, 'Cease firing,' and
'Follow me.'"

Again it was a lesson from Farragut, and Dewey, steaming back down the harbor, signalled "Let
the men go to breakfast." His captains, coming aboard the Olympia, gave a series of reports
unique in naval history. Not a man had been killed, not a gun disabled, not a ship seriously
injured. Three hours were devoted to cooling off and cleaning the guns, getting up more ammunition,
and breakfast was leisurely eaten.

Meanwhile, across the bay, on the riddled and sinking Spanish ships the wildest confusion reigned.
At eleven o'clock, the American fleet was seen again approaching, and a few minutes later,
that terrible storm of fire recommenced. There was practically no reply. Three of the Spanish
ships were on fire, and their magazines exploded one after another with a mighty roar; a broadside
from the Baltimore sank a fourth; a shell from the Raleigh exploded the magazine of a fifth,
and so, one by one, the Spanish ships were blown to pieces, until not one remained. An hour
later, the shore batteries had been silenced, and Dewey hoisted the signal, "Cease firing."

So ended the greatest naval battle since Trafalgar--a battle which riveted the attention of
the world, and brought home to Europe a realization of the fact that here was a new world-power
to be reckoned with. With six ships, carrying 1,668 men and fifty-three guns, Dewey had destroyed
the Spanish squadron of nine ships, carrying 1,875 men and forty-two guns; not an American
had been killed, and only six wounded, while the Spanish loss was 618 killed and wounded; and
not an American vessel had been injured. And, in addition to destroying the Spanish fleet,
a series of powerful shore batteries had been silenced, and the way prepared for the American
occupation of the Philippines. Dewey's place as one of the great commanders of history was secure.

News of the victory created the wildest excitement and enthusiasm in the United States. Dewey
became a popular hero, and when he returned from the Philippines, was welcomed with triumphal
honors, which recalled the great days of the Roman empire. He was commissioned admiral of the
navy, a rank which had been created for Farragut, and which has been held by only two men besides
him.

Another great American naval victory marked the brief war with Spain--the destruction of Admiral
Cervera's powerful fleet as it tried to escape from the harbor of Santiago, Cuba, on the third
day of July, 1898--a victory which made the Independence Day which followed one long to be
remembered in the United States. There, as at Manila, the entire Spanish fleet was destroyed,
without a single American vessel being seriously injured, and with a loss of only one killed
and one wounded on the American side. But the victory at Santiago was the victory of no one
man. The ranking officer, William Thomas Sampson, was miles away when the engagement began.
The next in rank, Winfield Scott Schley, so conducted himself that he was brought before a
court of inquiry. The battle was really fought and won by the commanders of the various ships--Robley
D. Evans, John W. Philip, Charles E. Clark, Henry C. Taylor, Richard Wainwright--by the very
simple procedure of getting as close to the enemy as they could, and hammering him as hard
as their guns would let them. One and all, they behaved with the utmost gallantry. But most
remarkable of all in the history of the navy from first to last has been the superb work of
the "men behind the guns," whose marksmanship has been the despair and envy of the world.

SUMMARY

JONES, JOHN PAUL. Born at Kirkbean, Kirkcudbrightshire, Scotland, July 6, 1747; settled in
Virginia, 1773; appointed first lieutenant in American navy, 1775; commanded Ranger and cruised
in the Irish sea, 1777-78; sailed from France in Bon Homme Richard, August 14, 1779; fought
Serapis, September 23, 1779; resigned from American service, entered the French and later the
Russian navy, served under Potemkin in the Black Sea with rank of rear-admiral; returned to
Paris, 1790; died there, July 18, 1792.

BIDDLE, NICHOLAS. Born at Philadelphia, September 10, 1750; captain in American navy, 1775;
appointed to command the Randolph, June 6, 1776; killed when ship blew up in fight with Yarmouth,
March 7, 1778.

PORTER, DAVID. Born at Boston, February 1, 1780; entered navy, 1798; served in Tripolitan war,
1801-03; commander of the Essex in war of 1812; defeated and taken prisoner in Valparaiso harbor,
March 28, 1814; resigned, 1826; commander of Mexican naval forces, 1826-29; United States minister
to Turkey, 1831-43; died at Pera, Constantinople, March 3, 1843.

HULL, ISAAC. Born at Derby, Connecticut, March 9, 1773; entered navy, 1798; served in war with
Tripoli, 1801-03; sailed from Boston in command of the Constitution, August 2, 1812; defeated
Guerrière, August 19, 1812; remained in navy till end of life; died at Philadelphia, February
13, 1843.

DECATUR, STEPHEN. Born at Sinnepuxent, Maryland, January 5, 1779; entered navy, 1798; burned
frigate Philadelphia in harbor of Tripoli, February 16, 1804; commanded frigate United States
in war of 1812; captured British frigate, Macedonian, October 25, 1812; captured by British
fleet, January 15, 1815; killed in a duel with James Barron, near Bladensburg, Maryland, March
22, 1820.

BAINBRIDGE, WILLIAM. Born at Princeton, New Jersey, May 7, 1774; lieutenant-commandant in quasi-naval-war
with France, 1798; commanded Philadelphia in Tripolitan war; captured by Tripolitans, November
1, 1804; commander of Constitution in war of 1812; captured British frigate Java, December
29, 1812; served in navy till death at Philadelphia, July 28, 1833.

LAWRENCE, JAMES.

PREBLE, EDWARD. Born at Falmouth (now Portland), Maine, August 15, 1761; served as midshipman
during Revolution; commissioned lieutenant, February 9, 1798; captain, May 15, 1799; commanded
squadron operating against Barbary States, 18O3-O4; died at Portland, Maine, August 25, 1807.

STEWART, CHARLES. Born at Philadelphia, July 28, 1778; lieutenant in United States navy, March
9, 1798; served in war with Tripoli; captain, April 22, 1806; commanded Constitution, 1813-14,
capturing many prizes; remained in navy till death, rising to rank of rear-admiral; died at
Bordentown, New Jersey, November 6, 1869.

BLAKELEY, JOHNSTON. Born near Seaford, County Down, Ireland, October, 1781; brought to America,
1783; entered navy as midshipman, February 5, 1800; lieutenant, February 10, 1807; master commander,
July 24, 1813; sailed from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in the Wasp, May 1, 1814; captured Reindeer,
sunk Avon, captured Atalanta; the Wasp was spoken by a Swedish ship, October 9, 1814, and never
seen again.

MACDONOUGH, THOMAS. Born in Newcastle County, Delaware, December 23, 1783; entered the navy
as midshipman, 1800; served in war against Tripoli; lieutenant, 1807; master commander, 1813;
defeated British squadron under Downie on Lake Champlain, September 11, 1814; died at sea,
November 16, 1825.

PERRY, OLIVER HAZARD. Born in South Kingston, Rhode Island, August 23, 1785; entered navy as
midshipman, April 7, 1799; served in war with Tripoli; lieutenant, 1807; ordered to Lake Erie,
February 17, 1813; reached Erie, March 27, 1813; defeated British fleet, September 10, 1813;
assisted in defense of Baltimore, 1814; commanded Java and John Adams; died at Port Spain,
Island of Trinidad, August 23, 1819.

PERRY, MATTHEW CALBRAITH. Born at Newport, Rhode Island, April 10, 1794; entered navy as midshipman,
1809; lieutenant, February 27, 1813; saw distinguished service in many ships and many waters;
master-commandant, January 7, 1833; captain, March 15, 1837; commodore, June 12, 1841; commanded
fleet at capture of Vera Cruz, 1844; organized and commanded expedition to Japan, delivering
President's letter to the Mikado, July 14, 1853, and signing treaty, March 31, 1854; died in
New York City, March 4, 1858.

FARRAGUT, DAVID GLASGOW. Born at Campbell's Station, Tennessee, July 5, 1801; adopted by David
Porter and given commission as midshipman, 1810; served under Porter in the Essex, 1813-14;
lieutenant, 1821; commander, 1841; captain, 1855; appointed commander of squadron to reduce
New Orleans, January, 1862; passed the forts below New Orleans on the night of April 23-24,
1862; compelled surrender of city, April 25, 1862; passed batteries at Vicksburg, June 28,
1862; rear-admiral, July 16, 1862; fought battle of Mobile Bay, August 5, 1864; vice-admiral,
1864; admiral, 1866; died at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, August 14, 1870.

CRAVEN, TUNIS AUGUSTUS MACDONOUGH. Born at Portsmouth, Hew Hampshire, January 11, 1813; entered
navy as midshipman, 1829; served in various ships and in coast survey; commander, April, 1861;
given command of monitor Tecumseh, with post of honor in battle of Mobile Bay, August 5, 1864;
struck torpedo and sank almost instantly, carrying down Craven and almost everyone else on board.

SEMMES, RAPHAEL. Born in Charles County, Maryland, September 27, 1809; midshipman in navy,
1826; lieutenant, 1837; at siege of Vera Cruz, 1847; commander in Confederate navy, April 4,
1861; took command of Alabama, August, 1863; Alabama destroyed by Kearsarge, June 19, 1864;
guarded water approaches to Richmond, 1865; after war, engaged in practice of law until his
death at Mobile, Alabama, August 30, 1877.

WINSLOW, JOHN ANCRUM. Born at Wilmington, North Carolina, November 19, 1811; entered navy as
midshipman, 1827; lieutenant, 1839; commander, 1855; captain, 1862; commanded Kearsarge on
special service in pursuit of Alabama, 1863-64; sank Alabama, June 19, 1864; rear-admiral,
1870; died at Boston, Massachusetts, September 29, 1873.

BUCHANAN, FRANKLIN. Born at Baltimore, Maryland, September 17, 1800; entered navy as midshipman,
1815; lieutenant, 1825; master-commandant, 1841; organized naval academy at Annapolis, 1845;
at siege of Vera Cruz, 1847; commanded flagship in Perry's Japan expedition, 1852; captain,
1855; commandant Washington navy yard, 1859; entered Confederate service, September, 1861;
commanded Merrimac in Hampton Roads and Tennessee in Mobile Bay; died in Talbot County, Maryland,
May 11, 1874.

WORDEN, JOHN LORIMER. Born in Westchester County, New York, March 12, 1818; entered navy, 1840;
lieutenant, 1846; taken prisoner while returning North from Fort Pickens, 1861; released after
seven months' captivity, and appointed to the Monitor; met Merrimac in Hampton Roads, March
9, 1862; received thanks of Congress and commissioned commander, July, 1862; captain, February,
1863; commodore, 1868; superintendent of naval academy, 1870-74; rear-admiral, 1872; retired,
1886; died at Washington, October 18, 1897.

DEWEY, GEORGE. Born at Montpelier, Vermont, December 26, 1837; entered naval academy, 1854;
graduated, 1858; with Farragut on Mississippi, 1862; commander, 1872; captain, 1884; commodore,
1896; fought battle of Manila Bay, May 1, 1898; thanked by Congress and promoted rear-admiral,
1898; admiral, 1899.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX

Adams, John, 84, 89-92, 124, 174, 175, 177, 208, 263.

Adams, John Quincy, 98-100, 109, 110, 125, 186.

Adams, Samuel, 84, 175-178, 179, 208-209, 263.

Allen, Eliza, 240-241.

Allen, Ethan, 270.

Anderson, Robert, 191.

Arnold, Benedict, 267-271, 276, 277, 311-312, 313.

Arthur, Chester Alan, 153, 166-167.

Astor, John Jacob, 250.

Atkinson, Henry, 303.

Austin, Moses, 243.

Bainbridge, William, 334, 337-340, 342, 343, 378.

Banks, Nathaniel P., 301.

Barnes, James, 22.

Barron, James, 337.

Beauregard, Pierre, 304-305, 306, 317-318.

Bee, Bernard E., 299, 300.

Benton, Jesse, 104.

Benton, Thomas Hart, 191, 211.

Berkeley, Lord, 62.

Biddle, Nicholas, 322, 328, 377.

Blaine, James G., 151, 152, 153, 155, 186, 205-207, 213.

Blakeley, Johnston, 342, 344-345, 379.

Boggs, Charles Stuart, 370.

Boone, Daniel, 215-221, 222, 223, 225, 226, 234, 258.

Boone, Squire, 219.

Booth, John Wilkes, 141-142, 164.

Bowie, James, 18, 246-250, 260.

Braddock, Edward, 82, 123, 267, 273, 275, 311.

Bradford, William, 21, 54-57, 74.

Bragg, Braxton, 308.

Breckenridge, John C., 138.

Broke, Philip, 341.

Brooks, Preston, 212.

Brown, John, 122, 295, 316.

Bryan, William Jennings, 160-161.

Buchanan, Franklin, 356, 363-366, 381.

Buchanan, James, 113, 121-123, 127-128, 191, 257.

Buell, Don Carlos, 293.

Burgoyne, John, 267-269, 270, 275, 311, 313, 325.

Burnside, Ambrose E., 285, 297, 314-315.

Burr, Aaron, 179-183, 205, 209-210, 245.

Butler, Benjamin, 355.

Butler, Simon; see Kenton, Simon.

Byllinge, Edward, 62.

Cabot, John, 36-37, 40, 70.

Cabot, Sebastian, 36-37, 70.

Calhoun, John Caldwell, 21, 111, 115, 184-190, 201, 211.

Carson, Kit, 265.

Carteret, Sir George, 62.

Cartier, Jacques, 39, 49, 72.

Carver, Jonathan, 55.

Cass, Lewis, 118, 191, 211.

Catlin, George, 251.

Champlain, Samuel, 49-51, 73.

Chase, Salmon Portland, 200, 212.

Clark, Charles E., 376.

Clark, George Rogers, 223, 225-232, 234, 235, 258.

Clark, William, 235-237, 250, 259.

Clay, Henry, 22, 99, 109, 114, 115, 116, 117, 184-190, 205, 206,
   210.

Cleveland, Grover, 154-159, 160, 164, 167.

Columbus, Bartholomew, 26, 29.

Columbus, Christopher, 16, 17, 19, 20, 25-36, 54, 69-70.

Columbus, Diego, 29.

Conkling, Roscoe, 205-206.

Cornwallis, Charles, 85, 124, 272, 278, 311, 313, 328.

Coronado, Francisco Vasquez de, 39, 72.

Craven, Tunis Augustus Macdonough, 18, 360-361, 380.

Crockett, David, 18, 246-250, 256, 260.

Cushing, William B., 370.

Custer, George A., 309.

Custis, Mrs. Martha, 82, 123.

Custis, Mary Randolph, 295.

Custis, Washington Parke, 295.

Cutler, Manasseh, 233.

Davis, Jefferson, 139, 201-204, 213, 280, 303, 305, 306.

Decatur, Stephen, 332-337, 339, 341, 377-378.

Delaware, Thomas West, Lord, 48.

De Leon, Juan Ponce, 38, 39, 71.

Dewey, George, 370-376, 381.

Dinwiddie, Robert, 80, 81.

Douglas, Stephen A., 133-136, 138, 164, 191-193, 211.

Drake, Sir Francis, 38-39, 72.

Early, Jubal Anderson, 291.

Edwards, Jonathan, 180.

Ericsson, John, 367.

Evans, Robley D., 376.

Everett, Edward, 193-194, 211-212.

Fairfax, Thomas, Lord, 78.

Fairfax, William, 78.

Fannin, James W., 243.

Farragut, David Glasgow, 15, 17, 22, 330, 351-360, 366, 370,
   371-372, 373, 374, 376, 380, 381.

Ferdinand of Aragon, 29, 31, 35.

Fillmore, Millard, 119, 127.

Fiske, John, 21, 22.

Ford, Paul Leicester, 21.

Franklin, Benjamin, 15, 21, 169-174, 207, 208, 325.

Franklin, William Buel, 301.

Frémont, John C., 122, 198, 250, 251, 255-257, 261.

Gage, Thomas, 175.

Garfield, James Abram, 114, 152-153, 166, 206.

Gates, Horatio, 267-269, 271, 272, 311, 312, 313.

Gilbert, Sir Humphrey, 42.

Gorman, Arthur P., 157.

Grant, Ulysses Simpson, 22, 141, 148-150, 152, 153, 165-166, 206,
   280, 285, 286-288, 289, 290, 292, 293, 298, 303, 304, 306, 308,
   310, 316, 317.

Greeley, Horace, 139.

Greene, Nathanael, 267, 272, 273, 276, 311, 312.

Gridley, Charles Vernon, 373.

Guiteau, Charles J., 152-153, 166.

Hale, Nathan, 18.

Hamilton, Alexander, 21, 89, 91, 96, 179-183, 205, 209.

Hamilton, Henry, 229.

Hancock, John, 175-178, 209, 322, 323.

Hancock, Winfield Scott, 293.

Hanks, Nancy, 129-130.

Hanna, Mark, 161.

Harding, Chester, 221.

Harrison, Benjamin, 157, 159-160, 167, 207.

Harrison, William Henry, 114-115, 126, 148, 159, 186, 224, 350.

Hay, John, 207.

Hayes, Rutherford Birchard, 114, 151-152, 166, 201, 206.

Hayne, Robert Young, 187, 188, 189.

Heath, William, 266.

Henderson, Richard, 218, 226.

Henry, Patrick, 132, 178-179, 209, 226, 227.

Heriot, Robert, 348.

Herkimer, Nicholas, 267.

Hill, A.P., 299, 308.

Hood, John Bell, 293, 316.

Hooker, Joseph, 280, 285-286, 287, 297, 301, 315.

Hopkins, Ezekial, 323.

Houston, Felix, 317.

Houston, Sam, 116, 238-246, 248, 259-260.

Howard, Oliver Otis, 302.

Hubbard, Elbert, 22.

Hudson, Henry, 39-40, 59, 72-73.

Hulburt, Archer Butler, 22.

Hull, Isaac, 330-332, 340, 341, 377.

Hull, William, 191, 330.

Ingersoll, Robert G., 206.

Isabella of Castile, 29, 30, 31, 35.

Jackson, Andrew, 15, 21, 99, 101-113, 114, 121, 122, 125-126, 148,
   156, 163, 164, 186, 189, 190, 191, 239, 240, 241, 242, 244,
   245, 246, 247, 279, 280, 281, 329, 352.

Jackson, Thomas Jonathan, 22, 287, 290, 297, 299-302, 307, 308,
   311, 317.

James, Reuben, 335-336.

Jay, John, 208.

Jefferson, Thomas, 13, 21, 89, 90, 91, 92-95, 96, 98, 124, 155,
   174, 178, 181, 227, 235, 236, 259, 276, 323.

John II., King of Portugal, 28.

Johnson, Andrew, 143-148, 165, 196, 197, 199, 203, 212.

Johnston, Albert Sidney, 280, 302-304, 311, 317, 318.

Johnston, Joseph E., 289-290, 296, 305-306, 308, 315, 318, 319.

Joliet, Louis, 52, 73-74.

Jones, John Paul, 320-328, 329, 344, 377.

Jones, William, 321.

Jones, William Paul, 321.

Kearny, Stephen Watts, 257.

Kenton, Simon, 221-225, 228, 234, 258.

Kilpatrick, Hugh Judson, 293.

King, Rufus, 97.

La Salle, Robert Cavalier, 51-54, 73, 79.

Lawrence, James, 18, 340-342, 347, 378.

Lee, Charles, 266.

Lee, "Light Horse Harry," 272-274, 294, 311, 313.

Lee, Robert Edward, 22, 141, 148, 149, 203, 274, 280, 283, 284,
   285, 286, 289, 292, 294-299, 301, 302, 305, 306, 307, 308,
   310, 315, 316-317.

Lewis, Meriwether, 235-237, 250, 259.

Lincoln, Abraham, 15, 16, 19, 21, 113, 129-143, 144, 145, 146,
   147, 152, 164-165, 192, 193, 198-199, 200, 257, 289.

Lincoln, Thomas, 129-131.

Lodge, Henry Cabot, 21.

Longstreet, James, 306-307, 318.

Lovejoy, Amos, 253.

Lowell, James Russell, 143.

Lummis, Charles F., 21.

McCardle, Eliza, 144-145.

Maclay, Edward Stanton, 22.

McClellan, George B., 282-286, 287, 296, 297, 301, 305, 307,
   314, 318.

Macdonough, Thomas, 342, 345-346, 379.

McDowell, Irwin, 301, 305.

McKinley, William, 159, 161-163, 167, 168.

McPherson, James Birdseye, 293.

Madison, James, 95-97, 125, 340.

Magellan, Ferdinand, 38, 71.

Magruder, John Bankhead, 308.

Mansfield, Joseph King Fenno, 301.

Marchena, Juan Perez de, 30.

Marion, Francis, 272-273, 311, 312.

Marquette, Jacques, 52, 74.

Marshall, Humphrey, 166.

Marshall, James Wilson, 255.

Marshall, John, 183-184, 210.

Meade, George G., 280, 286, 293.

Milam, Benjamin R., 243.

Miles, Nelson A., 309-310, 319.

Minuit, Peter, 59.

Monroe, James, 89, 97-98, 125, 158, 189, 201, 211.

Montgomery, Richard, 266.

Moody, William, 251.

Morris, Robert, 174.

Newport, Christopher, 43, 44, 46.

Nicolet, Jean, 51, 73.

Oglethorpe, James, 66-69, 75.

Ortiz, Juan, 45.

Pakenham, Edward Michael, 106, 107, 108.

Parker, Theodore, 23.

Parkman, Francis, 20, 21.

Paul, John, 321.

Paul, John; see Jones, John Paul.

Paul, William, 321.

Pearson, Richard, 320, 326, 327.

Pemberton, John Clifford, 308.

Penn, William, 21, 62-66, 74.

Perry, Matthew Calbraith, 350-351, 364, 379, 381.

Perry, Oliver Hazard, 346-350, 379.

Philip, John W., 376.

Philip, King, 41.

Pierce, Benjamin, 119.

Pierce, Franklin Scott, 114, 119-121, 127, 200, 280, 282.

Pike, Zebulon, 237, 259.

Pocahontas, 45, 46.

Polk, James Knox, 114, 116-117, 126-127, 281.

Pomeroy, Seth, 266.

Pope, John, 293, 297, 301, 307.

Porter, David, 352.

Porter, David, jr., 329-330, 345, 352-353, 377, 380.

Porter, David Dixon, 370.

Powhatan, The, 41, 45.

Preble, Edward, 333, 334, 339, 342-343, 378.

Putnam, Elizabeth, 263.

Putnam, Israel, 232, 263-266, 311.

Putnam, Joseph, 263.

Putnam, Rufus, 232-234, 258-259.

Raleigh, Sir Walter, 42-43.

Reed, Deborah, 171-172.

Revere, Paul, 175.

Rolfe, John, 46.

Roosevelt, Theodore, 162-163, 167-168.

Root, Elihu, 207.

Rosecrans, William Starke, 293.

Rusk, Thomas Jefferson, 244, 245.

St. Clair, Arthur, 233, 274-276, 313.

St. Leger, Barry, 270.

Saltonstall, Dudley, 323.

Sampson, William Thomas, 376.

Santa Anna, 127, 243, 244, 245, 248, 249, 281.

Santangel, Luis de, 30, 31.

Schley, Winfield Scott, 376.

Schuyler, Philip John, 267, 311.

Scott, Winfield, 119, 120, 188, 245, 280-282, 292, 295, 305,
   310, 314.

Scudder, Horace E., 21.

Semmes, Raphael, 361-363, 380.

Seward, William H., 137, 194-200, 212.

Shaw, Robert Gould, 18.

Sheridan, Philip Henry, 287, 290-292, 293, 294, 307, 308, 311,
   315-316.

Sherman, John, 152, 199, 200-201, 212-213.

Sherman, William Tecumseh, 280, 287-290, 292, 293, 304, 305,
   306, 308, 309, 315, 316, 318, 319.

Skelton, Martha, 93.

Smith, John, 21, 43-49, 73, 76.

Soto, Hernando de, 39, 45, 72.

Spalding, H.H., 251.

Spencer, Joseph, 266.

Stark, John, 267.

Stephens, Alexander H., 201-205, 213.

Stevens, Thaddeus, 147, 194-200, 201, 212.

Stewart, Charles, 342, 343, 378.

Stuart, J.E.B., 296, 307-308, 318-319.

Stuyvesant, Peter, 21, 60-62, 74.

Sullivan, John, 266.

Sumner, Charles, 194-200, 212.

Sumner, Edwin Vose, 293, 301.

Sumter, Thomas, 102, 272-273, 312.

Sutter, John Augustus, 250, 254-256, 260-261.

Taft, William Howard, 163, 168.

Tarleton, Guy, 272, 312.

Taylor, Henry C., 376.

Taylor, Zachary, 22, 114, 118-119, 120, 127, 148, 202, 280, 281.

Tecumseh, 115.

Thomas, George H., 280, 292-293, 316.

Thomas, John, 266.

Tilden, Samuel J., 151.

Todd, Dolly Payne, 96.

Todd, Mary, 132.

Toscanelli, Paolo del Pozzo, 27, 32.

Travis, William Barrett, 18, 243, 246-250, 260.

Tyler, John, 115-116, 126, 211.

Van Buren, Martin, 113-114, 115, 118, 126, 191.

Veach, William, 221.

Vespucci, Amerigo, 37, 71.

Wainwright, Richard, 376.

Ward, Artemus, 266.

Washington, Augustine, 76, 77, 78.

Washington, George, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 76-89, 90, 92, 93,
   97, 123-124, 129, 137, 150, 164, 174, 175, 177, 180, 181, 183,
   194, 209, 262, 266, 269, 271, 272, 274, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279,
   282, 295, 310, 312.

Washington, Lawrence, 76, 78, 79, 83.

Wayne, Anthony, 224, 234, 258, 259, 276-279, 313-314.

Webster, Daniel, 21, 110, 184-190, 193, 194, 198, 210.

Welles, Gideon, 364.

Wesley, Charles, 68.

Wheeler, Joseph, 309, 319.

Whitfield, George, 69.

Whitman, Marcus, 117, 250-254, 260.

Whittier, John G., 257.

Williams, Roger, 57-59, 74.

Wilson, Woodrow, 21.

Winslow, John Ancrum, 361-363, 380-381.

Wooster, David, 266.

Worden, John Lorimer, 367-370, 381.

York, Duke of, 61, 62, 63, 64.

       *       *       *       *       *