But this is not all. Private soldiers, out of their small earnings, are accustomed to remit
considerable sums through the post office, to their poor relations at home. In one year, twenty-two
thousand pounds were thus sent from Aldershot,--the average amount of each money order being
twenty-one shillings and fourpence. And if men with seven shillings and seven-pence a week
can do so much, what might not skilled workmen do, whose earnings amount to from two to three
pounds a week?

Soldiers serving abroad during arduous campaigns have proved themselves to be equally thoughtful
and provident. During the war in the Crimea, the soldiers and seamen sent home through the
money order office seventy-one thousand pounds, and the army works corps thirty-five thousand
pounds. More than a year before the money order system was introduced at Scutari, Miss Nightingale
took charge of the soldiers' savings. She found them most willing to abridge their own comforts
or indulgences, for the sake of others dear to them, as well as for their own future well-being;
and she devoted an afternoon in every week to receiving and forwarding their savings to England.
She remitted many thousand pounds in this manner, and it was distributed by a friend in London,--much
of it to the remotest corners of Scotland and Ireland. And it afforded some evidence that the
seed fell in good places (as well as of the punctuality of the post office), that of the whole
number of remittances, all but one were duly acknowledged.

Again, there is not a regiment returning from India but brings home with it a store of savings.
In the year 1860, after the Indian mutiny, more than twenty thousand pounds were remitted on
account of invalided men sent back to England; besides which there were eight regiments which
brought home balances to their credits in the regimental banks amounting to £40.499.[1] The
highest was the Eighty-fourth, whose savings amounted to £9,718. The Seventy-Eighth (Ross-shire
Buffs), the heroes who followed Havelock in his march on Lucknow, saved £6,480; and the gallant
Thirty-second, who held Lucknow under Inglis, saved £5,263. The Eighty-sixth, the first battalion
of the Tenth, and the Ninth Dragoons, all brought home an amount of savings indicative of providence
and forethought, which reflected the highest honour upon them as men as well as soldiers.[2]

[Footnote 1: The sum sent home by soldiers serving in India for the benefit of friends and
relatives are not included in these amounts, the remittances being made direct by the paymasters
of regiments, and not through the savings banks.]

[Footnote 2: The amount of the Fund for Military Savings Banks on the 5th of January, 1876,
was £338,350.]

And yet the private soldiers do not deposit all their savings in the military savings banks,--especially
when they can obtain access to an ordinary savings bank. We are informed that many of the household
troops stationed in London deposit their spare money in the savings banks rather than in the
regimental banks; and when the question was on a recent occasion asked as to the cause, the
answer given was, "I would not have my sergeant know that I was saving money." But in addition
to this, the private soldier would rather that his comrades did not know that he was saving
money; for the thriftless soldier, like the thriftless workman, when he has spent everything
of his own, is very apt to set up a kind of right to borrow from the fund of his more thrifty
comrade.

The same feeling of suspicion frequently prevents workmen depositing money in the ordinary
savings bank. They do not like it to be known to their employers that they are saving money,
being under the impression that it might lead to attempts to lower their wages. A working man
in a town in Yorkshire, who had determined to make a deposit in the savings bank, of which
his master was a director, went repeatedly to watch at the door of the bank before he could
ascertain that his master was absent; and he only paid in his money, after several weeks' waiting,
when ne had assured himself of this fact.

The miners at Bilston, at least such of them as put money in the savings bank, were accustomed
to deposit it in other names than their own. Nor were they without reason. For some of their
employers were actually opposed to the institution of savings banks,--fearing lest the workmen
might apply their savings to their maintenance during a turn-out; not reflecting that they
have the best guarantee of the steadiness of this class of men, in their deposits at the savings
bank. Mr. Baker, Inspector of Factories, has said that "the supreme folly of a strike is shown
by the fact that there is seldom or never a rich workman at the head of it."

A magistrate at Bilston, not connected with the employment of workmen, has mentioned the following
case. "I prevailed," he says, "upon a workman to begin a deposit in the savings bank. He came
most unwillingly. His deposits were small, although I knew his gains to be great. I encouraged
him by expressing satisfaction at the course he was taking. His deposits became greater; and
at the end of five years he drew out the fund he had accumulated, bought a piece of land, and
has built a house upon it. I think if I had not spoken to him, the whole amount would have
been spent in feasting or clubs, or contributions to the trades unions. That man's eyes are
now open--his social position is raised--he sees and feels as we do, and will influence others
to follow his example."

From what we have said, it will be obvious that there can be no doubt as to the ability of
a large proportion of the better-paid classes of working men to lay by a store of savings.
When they set their minds upon any object, they have no difficulty in finding the requisite
money. A single town in Lancashire contributed thirty thousand pounds to support their fellow-workmen
when on strike in an adjoining town. At a time when there are no strikes, why should they not
save as much money on their own account, for their own permanent comfort? Many workmen already
save with this object; and what they do, all might do. We know of one large mechanical establishment,--situated
in an agricultural district, where the temptations to useless expenditure are few,--in which
nearly all the men are habitual economists, and have saved sums varying from two hundred to
five hundred pounds each.

Many factory operatives, with their families, might easily lay by from five to ten shillings
a week, which in a few years would amount to considerable sums. At Darwen, only a short time
ago, an operative drew his savings out of the bank to purchase a row of cottages, now become
his property. Many others, in the same place, and in the neighbouring towns, are engaged in
building cottages for themselves, some by means of their contributions to building societies,
and others by means of their savings accumulated in the bank.

A respectably dressed working man, when making a payment one day at the Bradford savings bank,
which brought his account up to nearly eighty pounds, informed the manager how it was that
he had been induced to become a depositor. He had been a drinker; but one day accidentally
finding his wife's savings bank deposit book, from which he learnt that she had laid by about
twenty pounds, he said to himself, "Well now, if this can be done while I am spending, what
might we do if both were saving?" The man gave up his drinking, and became one of the most
respectable persons of his class. "I owe it all," he said, "to my wife and the savings bank."

When well-paid workmen such as these are able to accumulate a sufficient store of savings,
they ought gradually to give up hard work, and remove from the field of competition as old
age comes upon them. They ought also to give place to younger men; and prevent themselves being
beaten down into the lower-paid ranks of labour. After sixty a man's physical powers fail him;
and by that time he ought to have made provision for his independent maintenance. Nor are the
instances by any means uncommon, of workmen laying by money with this object, and thereby proving
what the whole class might, to a greater or less extent, accomplish in the same direction.

The extent to which Penny Banks have been used by the very poorest classes, wherever started,
affords a striking illustration how much may be done by merely providing increased opportunities
for the practice of thrift. The first Penny Bank was started in Greenock, about thirty years
since, as an auxiliary to the savings bank. The object of the projector (Mr. J.M. Scott) was
to enable poor persons, whose savings amounted to less than a shilling (the savings bank minimum)
to deposit them in a safe place. In one year about five thousand depositors placed £1,580 with
the Greenock institution. The estimable Mr. Queckett, a curate in the east end of London, next
opened a Penny Bank, and the results were very remarkable. In one year as many as 14,513 deposits
were made in the bank. The number of depositors was limited to 2,000; and the demand for admission
was so great that there were usually many waiting until vacancies occurred.

"Some save for their rent," said Mr. Queckett, "others for clothes and apprenticing their children;
and various are the little objects to which the savings are to be applied. Every repayment
passes through my own hands, which gives an opportunity of hearing of sickness, or sorrow,
or any other cause which compels the withdrawal of the little fund. It is, besides, a feeder
to the larger savings banks, to which many are turned over when the weekly payments tendered
exceed the usual sum. Many of those who could at first scarcely advance beyond a penny a week,
can now deposit a silver coin of some kind."

Never was the moral influence of the parish clergyman more wisely employed than in this case.
Not many of those whom Mr. Queckett thus laboured to serve were amongst the church-going class;
but by helping them to be frugal, and improving their physical condition, he was enabled gradually
to elevate their social tastes, and to awaken in them a religious life to which the greater
number of them had before been strangers.

A powerful influence was next given to the movement by Mr. Charles W. Sikes, cashier of the
Huddersfield Banking Company, who advocated their establishment in connection with the extensive
organization of mechanics' institutes. It appeared to him that to train working people when
young in habits of economy, was of more practical value to themselves, and of greater importance
to society, than to fill their minds with the contents of many books. He pointed to the perverted
use of money by the working class as one of the greatest practical evils of the time. "In many
cases," he said, "the higher the workmen's wages, the poorer are their families; and these
are they who really form the discontented and the dangerous classes. How can such persons take
any interest in pure and elevating knowledge?"

To show the thriftlessness of the people, Mr. Sikes mentioned the following instance. "An eminent
employer in the West Riding," he said, "whose mills for a quarter of a century have scarcely
run short time for a single week, has within a few days examined the rate of wages now paid
to his men, and compared it with that of a few years ago. He had the pleasure of finding that
improvements in machinery had led to improvement in wages. His spinners and weavers are making
about twenty-seven shillings a week. In many instances some of their children work at the same
mill, and in a few instances their wives, and often the family income reaches from a hundred
to a hundred and fifty pounds per annum. Visiting the homes of some of these men, he has seen
with feelings of disappointment the air of utter discomfort and squalor with which many are
pervaded. Increase of income has led only to increase of improvidence. The savings bank and
the building society are equally neglected, although at the same mill there are some with no
higher wages, whose homes have every comfort, and who have quite a little competency laid by.
In Bradford, I believe, a munificent employer on one occasion opened seven hundred accounts
with the savings bank for his operatives, paying in a small deposit for each. The result was
not encouraging. Rapidly was a small portion of the sums drawn out, and very few remained as
the nucleus of further deposits."[1]

[Footnote 1: From Mr. Sikes's excellent little handbook entitled "Good Times, or the Savings
Bank and the Fireside."]

Mr. Sikes suggested that each mechanics' institute should appoint a preliminary savings bank
committee, to attend once a week for the purpose of receiving deposits from the members and others.

"If a committee at each institution," he said, "were to adopt this course, taking an interest
in their humble circumstances, and in a sympathizing and kindly spirit, to suggest, invite,
nay win them over, not only by reading the lesson, but forming the habit of true economy and
self-reliance (the noblest lessons for which classes could be formed), how cheering would be
the results! Once established in better habits, their feet firmly set in the path of self-reliance,
how generally would young men grow up with the practical conviction that to their own advancing
intelligence and virtues must they mainly look to work out their own social welfare!"

This admirable advice was not lost. One institution after another embraced the plan, and preliminary
savings banks were, shortly established in connection with the principal mechanics' institutes
throughout Yorkshire. Those established at Huddersfield, Halifax, Bradford, Leeds, and York,
were exceedingly successful. The Penny Banks established at Halifax consisted of a central
bank and seven subordinate branches. The number of members, and the average amount of the sums
deposited with them, continued to increase from year to year. Fourteen Penny Banks were established
at Bradford; and after the depositors had formed the habit of saving in the smaller banks,
they transferred them in bulk to the ordinary Savings Bank.

Thirty-six Penny Banks were established in and around Glasgow. The committee, in their Report,
stated they were calculated "to check that reckless expenditure of little sums which so often
leads to a confirmed habit of wastefulness and improvidence;" and they urged the support of
the Penny Banks as the best means of extending the usefulness of the savings banks. The Penny
Bank established at the small country town of Farnham is estimated to have contributed within
a few years a hundred and fifty regular depositors to the savings bank of the same place. The
fact that as large a proportion as two-thirds of the whole amount deposited is drawn out within
the year, shows that Penny Banks are principally used as places of safe deposit for very small
sums of money, until they are wanted for some special object, such as rent, clothes, furniture,
the doctor's bill, and such-like purposes.

Thus the Penny Bank is emphatically the poor man's purse. The great mass of the deposits are
paid in sums not exceeding sixpence, and the average of the whole does not exceed a shilling.
The depositors consist of the very humblest members of the working class, and by far the greatest
number of them have never before been accustomed to lay by any portion of their earnings. The
Rev. Mr. Clarke, of Derby, who took an active interest in the extension of these useful institutions,
has stated that one-tenth of the whole amount received by the Derby Penny Bank was deposited
in copper money, and a large portion of the remainder in threepenny and fourpenny pieces.

It is clear, therefore, that the Penny Bank reaches a class of persons of very small means,
whose ability to save is much less than that of the highly-paid workman, and who, if the money
were left in their pockets, would in most cases spend it in the nearest public-house. Hence,
when a Penny Bank was established at Putney, and the deposits were added up at the end of the
first year, a brewer, who was on the committee, made the remark, "Well, that represents thirty
thousand pints of beer not drunk."

At one of the Penny Banks in Yorkshire, an old man in receipt of parish outdoor relief was
found using the Penny Bank as a place of deposit for his pennies until he had accumulated enough
to buy a coat. Others save, to buy an eight-day clock, or a musical instrument, or for a railway
trip.

But the principal supporters of the Penny Banks are boys, and this is their most hopeful feature;
for it is out of boys that men are made. At Huddersfield many of the lads go in bands from
the mills to the Penny Banks; emulation as well as example urging them on. They save for various
purposes--one to buy a chest of tools, another a watch, a third a grammar or a dictionary.

One evening a boy presented himself to draw £l 10. According to the rules of the Penny Bank
a week's notice must be given before any sum exceeding 20s. can be withdrawn, and the cashier
demurred to making the payment. "Well," said the boy, "the reason's this--mother can't pay
her rent; I'm goin' to pay it, for, as long as I have owt, she shall hev' it." In another case,
a youth drew £20 to buy off his brother who had enlisted. "Mother frets so," said the lad,
"that, she'll break her heart if he isn't bought off, and I cannot bear that."

Thus these institutions give help and strength in many ways, and, besides enabling young people
to keep out of debt and honestly to pay their way, furnish them with the means of performing
kindly and generous acts in times of family trial and emergency. It is an admirable feature
of the Ragged Schools that almost every one of them has a Penny Bank connected with it for
the purpose of training the scholars in good habits, which they most need; and it is a remarkable
fact that in one year not less than £8,880 were deposited, in 25,637 sums, by the scholars
connected with the Ragged School Union. And when, this can be done by the poor boys of the
ragged schools, what might not be accomplished by the highly-paid operatives and mechanics
of England?

But another capital feature in the working of Penny Banks, as regards the cultivation of prudent
habits among the people, is the circumstance that the example of boys and girls depositing
their spare weekly pennies, has often the effect of drawing their parents after them. A boy
goes on for weeks paying his pence, and taking home his pass-book. The book shows that he has
a "leger folio" at the bank expressly devoted to him--that his pennies are all duly entered,
together with the respective dates of their deposits--that these savings are not lying idle,
but bear interest at 2-1/2 per cent. per annum--and that he can have them restored to him at
any time,--if under 20s., without notice; and it above 20s., then after a week's notice has
been given.

The book is a little history in itself, and cannot fail to be interesting to the boy's brothers
and sisters, as well as to his parents. They call him "good lad," and they see he is a well-conducted
lad. The father, if he be a sensible man, naturally bethinks him that, if his boy can do so
creditable a thing, worthy of praise, so might he himself. Accordingly, on the next Saturday
night, when the boy goes to deposit his threepence at the Penny Bank, the father often sends
his shilling.

Thus a good beginning is often made, and a habit initiated, which, if persevered in, very shortly
exercises a most salutary influence on the entire domestic condition of the family. The observant
mother is quick to observe the effects of this new practice upon the happiness of the home,
and in course of time, as the younger children grow up and earn money, she encourages them
to follow the elder boy's example. She herself takes them by the hand, leads them to the Penny
Bank, and accustoms them to invest their savings there. Women have even more influence in such
matters than men, and where they do exercise it, the beneficial effects are much more lasting.

One evening a strong, muscular mechanic appeared at the Bradford savings bank in his working
dress, bringing with him three children, one of them in his arms. He placed on the counter
their deposit books, which his wife had previously been accustomed to present, together with
ten shillings, to be equally apportioned amongst the three. Pressing to his bosom the child
in his arms, the man said, "Poor things! they have lost their mother since they were here last;
but I must do the best I can for them." And he continued the good lesson to his children which
his wife had begun, bringing them with him each time to see their little deposits made.

There is an old English proverb which says, "He that would thrive must first ask his wife;"
but the wife must not only let her husband thrive, but help him, otherwise she is not the "help
meet" which is as needful for the domestic comfort and satisfaction of the working man, as
of every other man who undertakes the responsibility of a family. Women form the moral atmosphere
in which we grow when children, and they have a great deal to do with the life we lead when
we become men. It is true that the men may hold the reins; but it is generally the women who
tell them which way to drive. What Rousseau said is very near the truth--"Men will always be
what women make them."

Not long ago, Mr. Sikes encountered, in a second-class carriage, a well-dressed workman travelling
from Sheffield to Glasgow, during holiday times, to see his mother. "I am glad," said Mr. Sikes,
"to find a workman travelling so great a distance, for a purpose like that." "Yes," said the
man, "and I am glad to say that I can afford to do it." "And do many of the workmen employed
in your workshop save money?" asked Mr. Sikes. "No," said the other, "not more than about two
in the hundred. The spare earnings of the others go, not to the savings banks, but to the drink-shops."
"And when did you begin to save?" "When I was no bigger than that," indicating the height of
a little boy: "the first money I saved was in a Penny Bank, and I have gone on saving ever since."

Such being the influence of early practice and example, we are glad to find that Economy is
now being taught at public schools. The Rev. Mr. Crallan, of the Sussex County Asylum, has
long taught lessons of thrift to poor boys and girls. He urges the establishment of Penny Banks
in connection with Savings Banks, in all elementary schools. He wisely contends that simple
lessons on money, its nature, its value, and its uses, together with the various duties of
giving, spending, and saving, would have a vast influence on the rising generation.

The practice of teaching children provident habits has been adopted for about eight years in
the National Schools of Belgium. The School Board of Ghent is convinced of the favourable influence
that saving has upon the moral and material well-being of the working classes, and believes
that the best means of causing the spirit of economy to penetrate their habits is to teach
it to the children under tuition, and to make them practise it.

It is always very difficult to teach anything new to adults,--and especially lessons of thrift
to men who are thriftless. Their method of living is fixed. Traditional and inveterate habits
of expenditure exist among them. With men, it is the drinking-shop; with women, it is dress.
They spend what they earn, and think nothing of to-morrow. When reduced to a state of distress,
they feel no shame in begging; for the feeling of human dignity has not yet been sufficiently
developed in them.

With children it is very different. They have no inveterate habits to get rid of. They will,
for the most part, do as they are taught. And they can be taught economy, just as they can
be taught arithmetic. They can, at all events, be inspired by a clever teacher with habits
of economy and thrift. Every child has a few pence at times. The master may induce them to
save these for some worthy purpose. At Ghent, a savings bank has been introduced in every school,
and the children deposit their pennies there. It is introduced into the paying schools as well
as the free schools; for habits of thrift are as useful to men and women of the richer as of
the poorer classes. The results of the lessons on Economy have been highly satisfactory.[1]
The children belonging to the schools of Ghent have accumulated eighteen thousand pounds, which
is deposited in the State Savings Bank at three per cent. interest. This system is spreading
into Holland, France, and Italy. It has also, to a certain extent, been adopted in this country.
Thus Glasgow, Liverpool, Birmingham, Great Ilford, and the London Orphan Asylum, all show specimens
of School Banks; and we trust that, before long, they will be established in every school throughout
the kingdom.

[Footnote 1: A pamphlet published at Ghent says of the paying schools: "The spirit of economy
is introduced there under the form of charity. The young girls buy with their pocket money,
firstly materials, say cotton or linen, of which they afterwards make articles of dress during
the hours set aside for manual work: afterwards the shirts, stockings, dresses, handkerchiefs,
or aprons, are distributed to the poorer children of the free schools. The distribution Becomes
the object of a little holiday: we know of nothing that can be more touching. The poor children
are assembled in the Collier school; our young ladies go were also; one of them says a few
words feelingly to her sisters in the poorer classes; one of the girls of the free schools
replies. Then the pretty and useful things which have been made during the last year are distributed.
It is the donors themselves who present the fruits of their labour to the poorest among the
poor. The distribution is intermingled with singing. Need we reiterate the blessings of this
blessed economy?"]

It will be obvious, from what has been said, that the practice of economy depends very much
upon the facilities provided for the laying by of small sums of money. Let a convenient savings
bank be provided, and deposits gradually flow into it. Let a military savings bank be established,
and private soldiers contrive to save something out of their small pay. Let penny banks be
opened, and crowds of depositors immediately present themselves; even the boys of the ragged
schools being able to put into them considerable sums of money. It is the same with school
banks, as we have seen from the example of the school-children of Ghent.

Now, fifteen years ago, this country was very insufficiently provided with savings banks for
the people. There were then many large towns and villages altogether unprovided with them.
Lancashire had only thirty savings banks for upwards of two millions of people. The East Riding
of Yorkshire had only four savings banks. There were fifteen counties in the United Kingdom
which had not a single savings bank. There were only about six hundred savings banks for about
thirty millions of people. These were open only for two or three hours in the week; some were
open for only four hours in the month. The workman who had money to save, had to carry his
spare shillings in his pocket for some time before he could lay them by; and in the meantime
he might be exposed to constant temptations to spend them. To keep his shillings safe, he must
have acquired the habit of saving, which it was the object of savings banks to train and establish.

Dr. Guthrie, in his book on Ragged Schools, published in 1860, said: "How are our manufacturing
and handicraft youth situated? By public-houses and spirit-shops they are surrounded with innumerable
temptations; while to many of them savings banks are hardly known by name. Dissipation has
her nets drawn across every street. In many of our towns, sobriety has to run the gauntlet
of half-a-dozen spirit-shops in the space of a bow-shot. These are near at hand--open by day,
and blazing by night, both on Sabbath and Saturday. Drunkenness finds immediate gratification;
while economy has to travel a mile, it may be, for her savings bank; and that opens its door
to thrift but once or twice a week."[1]

[Footnote 1: Seed-Time and Harvest of Ragged Schools, or a Third Plea, with new editions of
the First and Second Plea, p. 99.]

Many suggestions had been made by friends of the poorer classes, whether it might not be possible
to establish a more extended system of savings banks throughout the country. As long ago as
1807, Mr. Whitbread introduced a Bill into Parliament for the purpose of enabling small deposits
to be made at an office to be established in London; the money to be remitted by the postmasters
of the districts in which the deposits were made. The Bill further contemplated the establishment
of a National Assurance Society, by means of which working people were to be enabled to effect
assurances to an extent not exceeding two hundred pounds, and to secure annuities to an amount
not exceeding twenty pounds. Mr. Whitbread's bill was rejected, and nothing came of his suggestions.

The exertions of Sir Rowland Hill having given great vitality to the Post Office system, and
extended its usefulness as a public institution in all directions, it was next suggested that
the money-order offices (which were established in 1838) might be applied for the purpose of
depositing as well as for transmitting money. Professor Hancock published a pamphlet on the
subject in 1852. In November, 1856, Mr. John Bullar, the eminent counsel--whose attention had
been directed to the subject by the working of the Putney Penny Bank--suggested to the Post
Office authorities the employment of money-order offices as a means of extending the savings-bank
system; but his suggestion did not meet with approval at the time, and nothing came of it.
Similar suggestions were made by other gentlemen--by Mr. Hume, by Mr. M'Corquodale, by Captain
Strong, by Mr. Ray Smee, and others.

But it was not until Mr. Sikes, of Huddersfield, took up the question, that these various suggestions
became embodied in facts. Suggestions are always useful. They arouse thinking. The most valuable
are never lost, but at length work themselves into facts. Most inventions are the result of
original suggestions. Some one attempts to apply the idea. Failures occur at first; but with
greater knowledge, greater experience, and greater determination, the suggestion at last succeeds.

Post Office Savings Banks owe their success, in the first place, to the numerous suggestions
made by Mr. Whitbread and others; next to Sir Rowland Hill who by establishing the Branch Post
Offices for the transmission of money, made the suggestions practicable; next to Mr. Sikes,
who took up the question in 1850, pushed it, persevered with it, and brought it under the notice
of successive Chancellors of the Exchequer; and lastly to Mr. Gladstone, who, having clearly
foreseen the immense benefits of Post Office Savings Banks, brought in a Bill and carried it
through Parliament in 1861.

The money-order department of the Post Office had suggested to Mr. Sikes, as it had already
done to other observers, that the organization already existed for making Post Office Savings
Banks practicable throughout the kingdom. Wherever the local inspector found that as many as
five money-orders were required in a week, the practice was to make that branch of the Post
Office a money-order office. It was estimated that such an office was established on an average
within three miles of every working man's door in the kingdom. The offices were open daily.
They received money from all comers, and gave vouchers for the amounts transmitted through
them. They held the money until it was drawn, and paid it out on a proper voucher being presented.
The Post Office was, in fact, a bank for the transmission of money, holding it for periods
of from twenty-four hours to weeks and months. By enabling it to receive more money from more
depositors, and by increasing the time of holding it, allowing the usual interest, it became
to all intents and purposes a National bank of deposit.

The results of the Post Office Savings Banks Act have proved entirely satisfactory. The money-order
offices have been largely extended. They are now about four thousand in number; consequently
the facilities for saving have been nearly doubled since the banks were established. The number
in the London district is now about four hundred and sixty, so that from any point in the thickly
populated parts of the metropolis, a Savings Bank may be found within a distance of a few hundred
yards. The number of the depositors at the end of 1873 amounted to more than a million and
a half; while the amount of deposits reached over twenty-one millions sterling.[1] At the same
time the amount deposited with the original Savings Banks remained about the same.

[Footnote 1: The amount reached £23,157,469 at the end of 1874.]

Post Office Savings Banks possess several great advantages which ought to be generally known.
The banks are very widely diffused, and are open from nine in the morning until six in the
evening, and on Saturdays until nine at night. Persons may make a deposit of a shilling, or
of any number of shillings, provided more than thirty pounds is not deposited in any one year.
The Post Office officers furnish the book in which the several deposits are entered. The book
also contains the regulations of the Post Office Savings Banks. Interest is allowed at the
rate of two pounds ten shillings per cent, per annum.

Another most important point is, the Security. Government is responsible for the full amount
paid in; so that the money deposited with the Post Office Savings Bank is as safe as if it
were in the Bank of England. The money saved may also be transferred from place to place, without
expense, and may be easily paid to the depositor when required, no matter where it was originally
deposited. All that is done, is done in perfect secrecy between the depositor and the postmaster,
who is forbidden to disclose the names of the depositors.

We have frequently alluded to Mr. Charles William Sikes in connection with Penny Banks and
Post Office Savings Banks. His name must always hold a distinguished place in connection with
those valuable institutions. He is the son of a private banker in Huddersfield. When at school
he was presented, as a prize, with a copy of Dr. Franklin's Essays and Letters. He perused
the book with avidity. It implanted in his mind the germs of many useful thoughts, and exercised
a powerful influence in giving a practical character to his life. Huddersfield is a busy manufacturing
town. Although workmen were well paid for their labour, there were many ups and downs in their
business. When trade became slack, and they had spent all that they had earned, numbers of
them were accustomed to apply for charity in the streets or by the wayside. Young Sikes often
wondered whether these people had ever heard of Dr. Franklin, and of his method of avoiding
beggary or bad times by saving their money when trade was brisk and they were well off.

Early in 1833, Mr. Sikes entered the service of the Huddersfield Banking Company. It was the
second joint stock bank that had been established in England. The prudence and success with
which the Scotch banking companies had been conducted induced the directors to select a Scotch
manager. One of the first resolutions the directors adopted, was to give deposit receipts for
sums of ten pounds and upwards, for the purpose of encouraging the working classes in habits
of providence and thrift. Mr. Sikes, being somewhat of a favourite with the manager, often
heard from his lips most interesting accounts of the provident habits of the Scotch peasantry,
and was informed by him of the fact that one of the banks at Perth paid not less than twenty
thousand pounds a year as interest on deposits varying from ten to two hundred pounds each.

In 1837, Mr. Sikes became one of the cashiers of the company. This brought him into direct
contact and intercourse with the very class which, from the direction his mind was taking,
he so much wished to understand,--namely, the thrifty portion of the industrious classes. A
considerable number of them had sums lying at interest. As years rolled on, Mr. Sikes often
witnessed the depositor commencing with ten or twenty pounds, then make permanent additions
to his little store, until at length the amount would reach one, two, or, in a few instances,
even three hundred pounds. Mr. Sikes would often imagine the marvellous improvement that would
be effected on the condition of the working classes, if every one of them became influenced
by the same frugality and forethought, which induced these exceptional operatives to deposit
their savings at his bank.

About that time, trade was in a wretched condition. The handloom weavers were almost entirely
without employment. Privation and suffering prevailed on every side, and these were often borne
with silent and noble heroism. Various remedies were proposed for the existing evils. Socialism,
chartism, and free trade, were the favourites. Theories of the wildest and most impracticable
character abounded, and yet even in those dark days there were instances of men who had to
some degree made the future predominate over the present, who could fall back upon their reserve
in the Joint Stock or Savings Bank to tide them over into better times. Believing in the beneficent
results of free trade, Mr. Sikes was equally convinced that national prosperity, as well as
national adversity, might be attended with great evils, unless the masses were endowed with
habits of providence and thrift, and prepared by previous education for the "good time coming"
so eloquently predicted by the orators of the League.

Many discussions with working men, in his homeward evening walks, convinced Mr. Sikes that
there were social problems with which legislation would be almost powerless to grapple, and
of these the thriftlessness of the masses of the people was one. An employer of five hundred
handloom weavers had told Mr. Sikes that in a previous period of prosperity, when work was
abundant and wages were very high, he could not, had he begged on bended knee, have induced
his men to save a single penny, or to lay by anything for a rainy day. The fancy waistcoating
trade had uniformly had its cycles of alternate briskness and depression; but experience, however
stern its teachings, could not teach unwilling learners.

Simple as are the words, they shed light into Mr. Sikes's mind, and became the keynote and
the test to which he brought the various views and theories which he had previously met with.
Doles and charities, though founded frequently on the most benevolent motives, were too often
deteriorating to their recipients. On the other hand, if self-reliance and self-help--the columns
of true majesty in man--could only be made characteristics of the working classes generally,
nothing could retard their onward and upward progress. Mr. Sikes observed that until the working
classes had more of the money power in their hands, they would still be periodically in poverty
and distress. He saw that if provident habits could only he generally pursued by them, the
face of society would immediately be transformed; and he resolved, in so far as lay in his
power, to give every aid to this good work.

In 1850, Savings Banks were only open a very few hours in each week. In Huddersfield, where
more than £400,000 a year was paid in wages, the savings bank, after having been established
over thirty years, had only accumulated £74,332. In 1850, Mr. Sikes addressed an anonymous
letter to the editors of the Leeds Mercury, to which, by their request, he afterwards attached
his name. In that letter he recommended the formation of Penny Savings Banks in connection
with Mechanics' and similar institutes. In simple words, but with many telling facts, he showed
how the young men and the young women of the working classes were growing up deprived of almost
every opportunity of forming habits of thrift, and of becoming depositors in savings hanks.

The letter was received with general approbation. The committee of the Yorkshire Union of Mechanics'
Institutes gave their cordial sanction to it; and Penny Banks were established in connection
with nearly every Mechanics' Institute in Yorkshire. Mr. Sikes personally conducted one at
Huddersfield; and down to the present time, it has received and repaid about thirty thousand
pounds. In fact, the working people of Huddersfield, doubtless owing in a great measure to
the practical example of Mr. Sikes,--have become most provident and thrifty,--the deposits
in their savings bank having increased from seventy-four thousand pounds in 1850, to three
hundred and thirty thousand pounds in 1874.

In 1854, Mr. Sikes published his excellent pamphlet on "Good Times, or the Savings Bank and
the Fireside," to which we have already referred. The success which it met with induced him
to give his attention to the subject of savings banks generally. He was surprised to find that
they were so utterly inadequate to meet the requirements of the country. He sought an interview
with Sir Cornewall Lewis, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, and brought the subject under his
consideration. The Chancellor requested Mr. Sikes to embody his views in a letter, and in the
course of a few months there appeared a pamphlet addressed to Sir Cornewall Lewis, entitled
"Savings Banks Reforms." Mr. Sikes insisted on the Government guarantee being given for deposits
made in Savings Banks; but this was refused.

Mr. Sikes next proceeded to ventilate the question of Post Office Savings Banks. He was disappointed
that no measure for the improvement of Savings Banks had been adopted by Parliament. The day
appeared very distant when his cherished wish would be realized,--that the Savings Bank should
really become the Bank of the People. But the darkest hour precedes the dawn. When he had almost
given up the notion of improving the existing Savings Banks, the idea suddenly struck him that
in the money-order office there was the very organization which might be made the basis of
a popular Savings Bank.

He communicated his plan in a letter to his friend Mr. Baines, then member for Leeds. The plan
was submitted to Sir Rowland Hill, who approved of the suggestions, and considered the scheme
"practicable so far as the Post Office was concerned." The plan was then brought under the
notice of Mr. Gladstone, who afterwards carried the Bill through Parliament for the establishment
of Post Office Savings Banks throughout the country.

To use the words of Mr. Sikes himself,--when predicting at the Social Science Association the
success of the Post Office Savings Banks,--"Should the plan be carried out, it will soon be
doing a glorious work. Wherever a Bank is opened and deposits received, self-reliance will
to some extent be aroused, and, with many, a nobler life will be begun. They will gradually
discern how ruthless an enemy is improvidence to working men; and how truly his friends are
economy and forethought. Under their guidance, household purchases could be made on the most
favourable terms--for cash; any wished-for house taken at the lowest rent for punctual payment;
and the home enriched with comforts until it is enjoyed and prized by all. From such firesides
go forth those inheriting the right spirit,--loving industry, loving thrift, and loving home.
Emulous of a good example, they in their day and generation would nobly endeavour to lay by
a portion of their income. Many a hard winter and many a slack time would be comfortably got
over by drawing on the little fund, to be again replenished in better days. And if the plan
were adopted, remembering that it would virtually bring the Savings Bank within less than an
hour's walk of the fireside of every working man in the United Kingdom, I trust that it is
not taking too sanguine a view to anticipate that it would render aid in ultimately winning
over the rank and file of the industrial classes of the kingdom to those habits of forethought
and self-denial which bring enduring reward to the individual, and materially add to the safety
of the State."

The working classes have not yet, however, taken full advantage of the facilities for saving
afforded them by the Post Office Savings Banks. Take Birmingham for instance, where the artizans
are among the best-paid workmen of the town. In the list of depositors in the Post Office Savings
Banks, we find that the artizans rank after the domestic servants, after the married and unmarried
women, and after the miners. They only constitute about one-tenth of the entire depositors,
though it is possible that they may deposit their savings in some other investments.

Then take the returns for the entire United Kingdom. Out of every ten thousand depositors in
the Post Office Savings Banks, we find that the domestic servants are again the first; next,
the women, married and single; next, persons of "no occupation" and "occupations not given;"
next, the artizans, and after them, the labourers, miners, tradesmen, soldiers and sailors,
clerks, milliners and dressmakers, professional men, and public officials, in the order stated.
We must, however, regard the institution as still too young to have fully taken root. We believe
that the living generation must pass away before the full fruits of the Post Office Savings
Banks can be gathered in.

The inhabitants of Preston have exhibited a strong disposition to save their earnings during
the last few years,--more especially since the conclusion of the last great strike. There is
no town in England, excepting perhaps Huddersfield, where the people have proved themselves
so provident and so thrifty. Fifty years ago, only one person in thirty of the population of
Preston deposited money in the Savings Bank; twenty years ago, the depositors increased to
one in eleven; and last year they had increased to one in five. In 1834, the sum of a hundred
and sixty-five thousand pounds had been accumulated in the Savings Bank by 5,942 depositors;
and in 1874, four hundred and seventy-two thousand pounds had been accumulated by 14,792 depositors,
out of a total population of 85,428. Is there any other town or city that can show a more satisfactory
result of the teaching, the experience, and the prosperity of the last twenty years?

CHAPTER IX.

LITTLE THINGS.

"The sober comfort, all the peace which springs
 From the large aggregate of little things;
 On these small cares of daughter, wife, or friend,
 The almost sacred joys of Home depend."--Hannah More.

"Know when to spend and when to spare,
 And when to buy, and thou shalt ne'er be bare."

"He that despiseth little things, shall perish by little and little."--Ecclesiasticus.

Neglect of small things is the rock on which the great majority of the human race have split.
Human life consists of a succession of small events, each of which is comparatively unimportant,
and yet the happiness and success of every man depends upon the manner in which these small
events are dealt with. Character is built up on little things,--little things well and honourably
transacted. The success of a man in business depends on his attention to little things. The
comfort of a household is the result of small things well arranged and duly provided for. Good
government can only be accomplished in the same way,--by well-regulated provisions for the
doing of little things.

Accumulations of knowledge and experience of the most valuable kind are the result of little
bits of knowledge and experience carefully treasured up. Those who learn nothing or accumulate
nothing in life, are set down as failures,--because they have neglected little things. They
may themselves consider that the world has gone against them; but in fact they have been their
own enemies. There has long been a popular belief in "good luck;" but, like many other popular
notions, it is gradually giving way. The conviction is extending that diligence is the mother
of good luck; in other words, that a man's success in life will be proportionate to his efforts,
to his industry, to his attention to small things. Your negligent, shiftless, loose fellows
never meet with luck; because the results of industry are denied to those who will not use
the proper efforts to secure them.

It is not luck, but labour, that makes men. Luck, says an American writer, is ever waiting
for something to turn up; Labour, with keen eye and strong will, always turns up something.
Luck relies on chance; Labour on character. Luck slips downwards to self-indulgence; Labour
strides upward, and aspires to independence.

There are many little things in the household, attention to which is indispensable to health
and happiness. Cleanliness consists in attention to a number of apparent trifles--the scrubbing
of a floor, the dusting of a chair, the cleansing of a teacup,--but the general result of the
whole is an atmosphere of moral and physical well-being,--a condition favourable to the highest
growth of human character. The kind of air which circulates in a house may seem a small matter,--for
we cannot see the air, and few people know anything about it. Yet if we do not provide a regular
supply of pure air within our houses, we shall inevitably suffer for our neglect. A few specks
of dirt may seem neither here nor there, and a closed door or window would appear to make little
difference; but it may make the difference of a life destroyed by fever; and therefore the
little dirt and the little bad air are really very serious matters. The whole of the household
regulations are, taken by themselves, trifles--but trifles tending to an important result.

A pin is a very little thing in an article of dress, but the way in which it is put into the
dress often reveals to you the character of the wearer. A shrewd fellow was once looking out
for a wife, and was on a visit to a family of daughters with this object. The fair one, of
whom he was partially enamoured, one day entered the room in which he was seated with her dress
partially unpinned, and her hair untidy: he never went back. You may say, such a fellow was
"not worth a pin;" but he was really a shrewd fellow, and afterwards made a good husband. He
judged of women as of men--by little things; and he was right.

A druggist advertised for an assistant, and he had applications from a score of young man.
He invited them all to come to his shop at the same time, and set them each to make up a pennyworth
of salts into a packet. He selected the one that did this little thing in the neatest and most
expert manner. He inferred their general practical ability from their performance of this smallest
bit of business.

Neglect of little things has ruined many fortunes and marred the best of enterprises. The ship
which bore home the merchant's treasure was lost because it was allowed to leave the port from
which it sailed with a very little hole in the bottom. For want of a nail the shoe of the aide-de-camp's
horse was lost; for want of the shoe, the horse was lost; for want of the horse, the aide-de-camp
himself was lost, for the enemy took him and killed him; and for want of the aide-de camp's
intelligence, the army of his general was lost: and all because a little nail had not been
properly fixed in a horse's shoe!

"It will do!" is the common phrase of those who neglect little things. "It will do!" has blighted
many a character, blasted many a fortune, sunk many a ship, burnt down many a house, and irretrievably
ruined thousands of hopeful projects of human good. It always means stopping short of the right
thing. It is a makeshift. It is a failure and defeat. Not what "will do," but what is the best
possible thing to do,--is the point to be aimed at! Let a man once adopt the maxim of "It will
do," and he is given over to the enemy,--he is on the side of incompetency and defeat,--and
we give him up as a hopeless subject!

M. Say, the French political economist, has related the following illustration of the neglect
of little things. Once, at a farm in the country, there was a gate enclosing the cattle and
poultry, which was constantly swinging open for want of a proper latch. The expenditure of
a penny or two, and a few minutes' time, would have made all right. It was on the swing every
time a person went out, and not being in a state to shut readily, many of the poultry were
from time to time lost. One day a fine young porker made his escape, and the whole family,
with the gardener, cook, and milkmaid, turned out in quest of the fugitive. The gardener was
the first to discover the pig, and in leaping a ditch to cut off his escape, got a sprain that
kept him to his bed for a fortnight. The cook, on her return to the farm-house, found the linen
burnt that she had hung up before the fire to dry; and the milkmaid, having forgotten in her
haste to tie up the cattle in the cow-house, one of the loose cows had broken the leg of a
colt that happened to be kept in the same shed. The linen burnt and the gardener's work lost
were worth full five pounds, and the colt worth nearly double that money: so that here was
a loss in a few minutes of a large sum, purely for want of a little latch which might have
been supplied for a few halfpence. Life is full of illustrations of a similar kind. When small
things are habitually neglected, ruin is not far off. It is the hand of the diligent that maketh
rich; and the diligent man or woman is attentive to small things as well as great. The things
may appear very little and insignificant, yet attention to them is as necessary as to matters
of greater moment.

Take, for instance, the humblest of coins--a penny. What is the use of that little piece of
copper--a solitary penny? What can it buy? Of what use is it? It is half the price of a glass
of beer. It is the price of a box of matches. It is only fit for giving to a beggar. And yet
how much of human happiness depends upon the spending of the penny well.

All savings are made up of little things. "Many a little makes a mickle." Many a penny makes
a pound. A penny saved is the seed of pounds saved. And pounds saved mean comfort, plenty,
wealth, and independence. But the penny must be earned honestly. It is said that a penny earned
honestly is better than a shilling given. A Scotch proverb says, "The gear that is gifted is
never sae sweet as the gear that is won." What though the penny be black? "The smith and his
penny are both black." But the penny earned by the smith is an honest one.

If a man does not know how to save his pennies or his pounds, his nose will always be kept
to the grindstone. Want may come upon him any day, "like an armed man." Careful saving acts
like magic: once begun, it grows into habit. It gives a man a feeling of satisfaction, of strength,
of security. The pennies he has put aside in his savings box, or in the savings bank, give
him an assurance of comfort in sickness, or of rest in old age. The man who saves has something
to weather-fend him against want; while the man who saves not has nothing between him and bitter,
biting poverty.

A man may be disposed to save money, and lay it by for sickness or for other purposes; but
he cannot do this unless his wife lets him, or helps him. A prudent, frugal, thrifty woman
is a crown of glory to her husband. She helps him in all his good resolutions; she may, by
quiet and gentle encouragement, bring out his better qualities; and by her example she may
implant in him noble principles, which are the seeds of the highest practical virtues.

The Rev. Mr. Owen, formerly of Bilston,--a good friend and adviser of working people,--used
to tell a story of a man who was not an economist, but was enabled to become so by the example
of his wife. The man was a calico-printer at Manchester, and he was persuaded by his wife,
on their wedding-day, to allow her two half-pints of ale a day, as her share. He rather winced
at the bargain, for, though a drinker himself, he would have preferred a perfectly sober wife.
They both worked hard; and he, poor man, was seldom out of the public-house as soon as the
factory was closed.

She had her daily pint, and he, perhaps, had his two or three quarts, and neither interfered
with the other? except that, at odd times, she succeeded, by dint of one little gentle artifice
or another, to win him home an hour or two earlier at night; and now and then to spend an entire
evening in his own house. They had been married a year, and on the morning of their wedding
anniversary, the husband looked askance at her neat and comely person, with some shade of remorse,
as he said, "Mary, we've had no holiday since we were wed; and, only that I have not a penny
in the world, we'd take a jaunt down to the village, to see thee mother."

"Would'st like to go, John? "said she, softly,between a smile and a tear, so glad to hear him
speak so kindly,--so like old times. "If thee'd like to go, John, I'll stand treat."

"Thou stand treat!" said he, with half a sneer: "Has't got a fortun', wench?"

"Nay," said she, "but I've gotten the pint o' ale."

"Gotten what?" said he.

"The pint o' ale!" said she.

John still didn't understand her, till the faithful creature reached down an old stocking from
under a loose brick up the chimney, and counted out her daily pint of ale in the shape of three
hundred and sixty-five threepences, i.e., £4 11s. 3d., and put them into his hand, exclaiming,
"Thou shalt have thee holiday, John!"

John was ashamed, astonished, conscience-stricken, charmed, and wouldn't touch it. "Hasn't
thee had thy share? Then I'll ha' no more! "he said. He kept his word. They kept their wedding-day
with mother,--and the wife's little capital was the nucleus of a series of frugal investments,
that ultimately swelled out into a shop, a factory, warehouses, a country seat, carriage, and,
perhaps, a Liverpool Mayor.

In the same way, a workman of even the humblest sort, whose prosperity and regularity of conduct
show to his fellow-workmen what industry, temperance, manly tenderness, and superiority to
low and sensual temptation can effect, in endearing a home which is bright even amidst the
gloom of poverty--such a man does good as well as the most eloquent writer that ever wrote.
If there were a few patriarchs of the people such as this, their beneficial influence would
soon be sensibly felt by society at large. A life well spent is worth any number of speeches.
For example is a language far more eloquent than words: it is instruction in action--wisdom
at work.

A man's daily life is the best test of his moral and social state. Take two men, for instance,
both working at the same trade and earning the same money; yet how different they may be as
respects their actual condition. The one looks a free man; the other a slave. The one lives
in a snug cottage; the other in a mud hovel. The one has always a decent coat to his back;
the other is in rags. The children of the one are clean, well dressed, and at school; the children
of the other are dirty, filthy, and often in the gutter. The one possesses the ordinary comforts
of life, as well as many of its pleasures and conveniences--perhaps a well-chosen library;
the other has few of the comforts of life, certainly no pleasures, enjoyments, nor books. And
yet these two men earn the same wages. What is the cause of the difference between them?

It is in this. The one man is intelligent and prudent; the other is the reverse. The one denies
himself for the benefit of his wife, his family, and his home; the other denies himself nothing,
but lives under the tyranny of evil habits. The one is a sober man, and takes pleasure in making
his home attractive and his family comfortable; the other cares nothing for his home and family,
but spends the greater part of his earnings in the gin-shop or the public-house. The one man
looks up; the other looks down. The standard of enjoyment of the one is high; and of the other
low. The one man likes books, which instruct and elevate his mind; the other likes drink, which
tends to lower and brutalize him. The one saves his money; the other wastes it.

"I say, mate," said one workman to another, as they went home one evening from their work,
"will you tell me how it is that you contrive to get on? how it is that you manage to feed
and clothe your family as you do, and put money in the Penny Bank besides; whilst I, who have
as good wages as you, and fewer children, can barely make the ends meet?"

"Well, I will tell you; it only consists in this--in taking care of the pennies!"

"What! Is that all, Ransom?"

"Yes, and a good 'all' too. Not one in fifty knows the secret. For instance, Jack, you don't."

"How! I? Let's see how you make that out."

"Now you have asked my secret, I'll tell you all about it. But you must not be offended if
I speak plain. First, I pay nothing for my drink."

"Nothing? Then you don't pay your shot, but sponge upon your neighbours."

"Never! I drink water, which costs nothing. Drunken days have all their to-morrows, as the
old proverb says. I spare myself sore heads and shaky hands, and save my pennies. Drinking
water neither makes a man sick nor in debt, nor his wife a widow. And that, let me tell you,
makes a considerable difference in our out-go. It may amount to about half-a-crown a week,
or seven pounds a year. That seven pounds will clothe myself and children, while you are out
at elbows and your children go barefoot."

"Come, come, that's going too far. I don't drink at that rate. I may take an odd half-pint
now and then; but half-a-crown a week! Pooh! pooh!"

"Well, then, how much did you spend on drink last Saturday night? Out with it."

"Let me see: I had a pint with Jones; I think I had another with Davis, who is just going to
Australia; and then I went to the lodge."

"Well, how many glasses had you there?"

"How can I tell? I forget. But it's all stuff and nonsense, Bill!"

"Oh, you can't tell: you don't know what you spent? I believe you. But that's the way your
pennies go, my lad."

"And that's all your secret?"

"Yes; take care of the penny--that's all. Because I save, I have, when you want. It's very
simple, isn't it?"

"Simple, oh yes; but there's nothing in it."

"Yes! there's this in it,--that it has made you ask me the question, how I manage to keep my
family so comfortably, and put money in the Penny Bank, while you, with the same wages, can
barely make the ends meet. Money is independence, and money is made by putting pennies together.
Besides, I work so hard for mine,--and so do you,--that I can't find it in my heart to waste
a penny on drink, when I can put it beside a few other hard-earned pennies in the bank. It's
something for a sore foot or a rainy day. There's that in it, Jack; and there's comfort also
in the thought that, whatever may happen to me, I needn't beg nor go to the workhouse. The
saving of the penny makes me feel a free man. The man always in debt, or without a penny beforehand,
is little better than a slave."

"But if we had our rights, the poor would not be so hardly dealt with as they now are."

"Why, Jack, if you had your rights to-morrow, would they put your money back into your pocket
after you had spent it?--would your rights give your children shoes and stockings when you
had chosen to waste on beer what would have bought them? Would your rights make you or your
wife, thriftier, or your hearthstone cleaner? Would rights wash your children's faces, and
mend the holes in your clothes? No, no, friend! Give us our rights by all means, but rights
are not habits, and it's habits we want--good habits. With these we can be free men and independent
men now, if we but determine to be so. Good night, Jack, and mind my secret,--it's nothing
but taking care of the pennies, and the pounds will take care of themselves."

"Good-night!" And Jack turned off at the lane-end towards his humble and dirty cottage in Main's
Court. I might introduce you to his home,--but "home" it could scarcely be called. It was full
of squalor and untidiness, confusion and dirty children, where a slattern-looking woman was
scolding. Ransom's cottage, On the contrary, was a home. It was snug, trig, and neat; the hearthstone
was fresh sanded; the wife, though her hands were full of work, was clean and tidy; and her
husband, his day's work over, could sit down with his children about him, in peace and comfort.

The chief secret was now revealed. Ransom's secret, about the penny, was a very good one, so
far as it went. But he had not really told the whole truth. He could not venture to tell his
less fortunate comrade that the root of all domestic prosperity, the mainstay of all domestic
comfort, is the wife; and Ransom's wife was all that a working man could desire. There can
be no thrift, nor economy, nor comfort at home, unless the wife helps;--and a working man's
wife, more than any other man's; for she is wife, Housekeeper, nurse, and servant, all in one.
If she be thriftless, putting money into her hands is like pouring water through a sieve. Let
her be frugal, and she will make her home a place of comfort, and she will also make her husband's
life happy,--if she do not lay the foundation of his prosperity and fortune.

One would scarcely expect that for a penny a day it would be possible to obtain anything valuable.
And yet it may be easily shown how much a penny a day, carefully expended, might do towards
securing a man's independence, and providing his wife and family against the future pressure
of poverty and want.

Take up a prospectus and tables of a Provident Society, intended for the use of those classes
who have a penny a day to spend,--that is, nearly all the working classes of the country. It
is not necessary to specify any particular society, because the best all proceed upon the same
data,--the results of extensive observations and experience of health and sickness;--and their
tables of rates, certified by public actuaries, are very nearly the same. Now, looking at the
tables of these Life and Sickness Assurance Societies, let us see what a penny a day can do.

1. For a penny a day, a man or woman of twenty-six years of age may secure the sum of ten shillings
a week payable during the time of sickness, for the whole of life.

2. For a penny a day (payments ceasing at sixty years of age), a man or woman of thirty-one
years of age may secure the sum of £50 payable at death, whenever that event may happen, even
though it should be during the week or the month after the assurance has been effected.

3. For a penny a day, a young man or woman of fifteen may secure a sum of £100, the payment
of the penny a day continuing during the whole of life, but the £100 being payable whenever
death may occur.

4. For a penny a day, a young man or woman of twenty may secure an annuity of £26 per annum,
or of 10s. per week for the whole of life, after reaching the age of sixty-five.

5. For a penny a day,--the payment commencing from the birth of any child,--a parent may secure
the sum of £20, payable on such child reaching the age of fourteen years.

6. For a penny a day, continued until the child readies the age of twenty-one years, the sum
of £45 may be secured, to enable him or her to begin business, or start housekeeping.

7. For a penny a day, a young man or woman of twenty-four may secure the sum of £100, payable
on reaching the age of sixty, with the right of withdrawing four-fifths of the amount paid
in, at any time; the whole of the payments being paid back in event of death occurring before
the age of sixty.

Such is the power of a penny a day! Who would have thought it? Yet it is true, as any one can
prove by looking at the tables of the best assurance offices. Put the penny a day in the bank,
and it accumulates slowly. Even there, however, it is very useful. But with the assurance office
it immediately assumes a vast power. A penny a day paid in by the man of thirty-one, is worth
£60 to his wife and family, in the event of his dying next month or next year! It is the combining
of small savings for purposes of mutual assurance, by a large number of persons, that gives
to the penny its enormous power.

The effecting of a life assurance by a working man, for the benefit of his wife and children,
is an eminently unselfish act. It is a moral as well as a religious transaction. It is "providing
for those of his own household." It is taking the right step towards securing the independence
of his family, after he, the bread-winner, has been called away. This right investment of the
pennies is the best proof of practical virtue, and of the honest forethought and integrity
of a true man.

The late Joseph Baxendale was the constant friend of the working people who co-operated with
him in the labours of his life. He was a man of strong common sense, and might have been styled
the Franklin of Business. He was full of proverbial wisdom, and also full of practical help.
He was constantly urging his servants to lay by something for a rainy day, or for their support
in old age. He also used to pension off his old servants after they had ceased to be able to work.

He posted up Texts along his warehouses, so that those who ran might read. "Never despair,"
"Nothing without labour," "He who spends all he gets, is on the way to beggary," "Time lost
cannot be regained," "Let industry, temperance, and economy be the habits of your lives." These
texts were printed in large type, so that every passer-by might read them; while many were
able to lay them to heart, and to practise the advices which they enjoined.

On other occasions Mr. Baxendale would distribute amongst his workpeople, or desire to be set
up in his warehouses and places of business, longer and more general maxims. He would desire
these printed documents to be put up in the offices of the clerks, or in places where men are
disposed to linger, or to take their meals, or to assemble preparatory to work. They were always
full of valuable advice. We copy one of them, on the Importance of Punctuality:--

"Method is the hinge of business; and there is no method without Punctuality. Punctuality is
important, because it subserves the Peace and Good Temper of a family. The want of it not only
infringes on necessary Duty, but sometimes excludes this duty. The calmness of mind which it
produces is another advantage of Punctuality. A disorderly man is always in a hurry. He has
no time to speak to you, because he is going elsewhere; and when he gets there, he is too late
for his business, or he must hurry away to another before he can finish it. Punctuality gives
weight to character. 'Such a man has made an appointment; then I know he will keep it.' And
this generates Punctuality in you; for, like other virtues, it propagates itself. Servants
and children must be punctual, when their Leader is so. Appointments, indeed, become debts.
I owe you Punctuality, if I have made an appointment with you, and have no right to throw away
your time, if I do my own."

Some may inquire, "Who was Joseph Baxendale?" He was, in fact, Pickford and Co., the name of
a firm known all over England, as well as throughout the Continent. Mr. Baxendale was the son
of a physician at Lancaster. He received a good education, went into the cotton trade, and
came up to London to represent the firm with which he was connected. A period of commercial
pressure having occurred, he desired to leave the cotton trade and to enter upon some other
business. Mr. Pickford had already begun the business of a Carrier, but he was hampered by
want of money. Mr. Baxendale helped him with capital, and for a time remained a sleeping partner;
but finding that the business made no progress, principally for want of management, he eventually
determined to take the active part in working and managing the concern.

He threw his whole energies into the firm of Pickford and Co. He reorganized the agencies,
and extended them throughout the kingdom. He put flying vans upon the road, equal to our express
trains; and slow vans, equal to our goods trains. He utilized the canals to a large extent,
putting on flying boats between all the larger towns. Indeed the roads of the country were
then so bad, that in certain seasons it was almost impossible to convey merchandize from one
part of the country to another.

The carrying on of such an important and extensive business required much capital, great energy,
and first-rate business management. The horses necessary to carry on the traffic were increased
from about fifty, which they were in the time of Pickford, to more than a thousand; for relays
of horses were necessary at all the stopping-places on the line of traffic, between London
and Manchester, between London and Exeter, and between London and Edinburgh. A ship-building
yard was established, where all the boats, flying and slow, required to carry on the business,
were constructed at Mr. Baxendale's expense.

The carrying business required a great deal of personal supervision. Only a man of determined
spirit and indomitable energy could have done it. He had a flying boat in which he rapidly
passed along the canals, seeing that the men were at their posts, that the agents were at work,
and the traffic duly provided for. He did this by night as well as by day. At other times,
he would fly along the roads in his special travelling carriage,--always paying the highest
prices to the innkeepers, in order that he might secure the best horses, and avoid delay and
loss of time. He would overtake his vans, and see that his men were sober, and that they were
well forward at the stations along the road; that their blunderbusses were loaded (for highway
robbery was then one of the risks of travelling by road), that the agents were doing their
duty, and that everything was in proper order.

Besides overtaking the vans, he would sometimes travel by a by-road--for he knew nearly every
road in the country--push on, and then double back upon his drivers, who never knew whether
he was before or behind them; and thus general vigilance became the rule of all. By these and
various other means the business of the concern was admirably done, and the carrying trade
of the country was brought to as high a state of perfection as was compatible with the then
state of the roads and canals.

When all this had been accomplished, the disturbing influence of railways began. "I see mischief
in these confounded iron roads," said the Duke of Bridgewater. But the time for railways had
arrived, and they could not be postponed. The first railroads were used for the conveyance
of coals from the pits to the seaside, where they were shipped for London. Then it was proposed
that they should be laid for the conveyance of goods from town to town; and the largest traffic
being in Lancashire, one of the first railways was constructed between Liverpool and Manchester,
from which towns they were afterwards constructed in all directions throughout the country.

Had Mr. Baxendale resisted the new means of conveyance, he would, before long, have been driven
off the road. But he clearly foresaw the ultimate triumph of the railway system; and he went
with it, instead of against it. He relieved the Liverpool and Manchester Company of a great
deal of trouble, by undertaking to manage their goods' traffic and by collecting and delivering
it at both towns. Then, when the railways from Warrington to Birmingham and from Birmingham
to London were projected, he gave evidence before the committees of Parliament, in proof of
the estimated traffic. And when the lines were made, he transferred the goods from his carrying
vans to the railway. He thus became a great railway carrier, collecting and delivering goods
in all the cities and towns served by the railways which had by that time become established.

He also became a large shareholder in railways. His status in the South-Eastern line was so
great, that he was invited to become chairman of the company. He was instrumental, in conjunction
with the late Sir William Cubitt, in pushing on the line to Dover. But the Dover Harbour Board
being found too stingy in giving accommodation to the traffic, and too grasping in their charges
for harbour dues, Mr. Baxendale at once proceeded, on his own responsibility, to purchase Folkestone
Harbour as the port of the South-Eastern Company. He next proceeded to get up the Boulogne
and Amiens Railway, which was for the most part constructed with English capital; and the direct
line from London to Paris was thus completed.

His arduous labours in connection with his own business, as well as with railway extension,
having thrown him into ill-health, he went abroad for repose. While absent, a faction was got
up in Liverpool for the purpose of appointing another chairman in his stead; and though he
was unseated by a trick, he himself accepted his dismissal with pleasure. His sons were now
able to help him in the conduct of his business, though he continued to the close of his life
to take an interest in everything that was going on. He was never weary of well-doing; he never
rested in giving his good advice, the results of his large experience, to the assistants, clerks,
and working men employed in his various offices. We conclude our brief notice of his life by
giving another of his "Run-and-Read Sermons," which he distributed plentifully among his employés,
and had affixed in various portions of his warehouses. It was entitled "Good Maxims and Advice."

"An old servant of the concern observed, a short time ago, that he began life in the employ
of Pickford, upon low wages, and that by frugality and industry he had gained a competency.
His maxim was, never to spend more than ninepence out of every shilling. Although this may
appear a trifle, recollect that it is five shillings in twenty, ten pounds in forty.

"Suppose a young man to pursue this system: Let him obtain the first twenty pounds, add each
year ten pounds, he will at the end of six years be possessed of upwards of one hundred pounds.
If in early life the opportunity is suffered to pass, it rarely happens that one can save money
when more advanced in years.

"The concern in which we are engaged has been defrauded by those who have for thirty years
received salaries, the savings from which, had they followed the plan that is recommended,
would have placed them in situations of comparative affluence; and we should now have seen
them respectable members of society.

"Upon industry and frugality our well-doing depends. It is not great talents, but steady application,
that is required. There are none of us that may not obtain stations of respectability. 'God
helps them that help themselves.' 'He that follows pleasure instead of business will shortly
have no business to follow.'

"I frequently complain of what may be called trifles, but from these arising frequently, we
are at length lost. Let each attend to his respective duties; keep the appointed hours; and
never defer till to-morrow what may be done to-day.

"If business is more pressing than usual, give additional time, that your own accounts may
not fall into confusion, and that you may not be the means of causing delay and trouble to
others. It often happens that the negligence of individuals throws additional labour upon those
who are anxious for regularity.

"Hiding or screening the faults or errors of others, is a system that has prevailed and caused
much loss and injury,--frequently to the offending party, always to the employer.

"Late occurrences lead me to draw your attention to this subject: it is important in every
sense, both as regards your public and private stations. There is nothing more worthy of a
man than truth: nothing makes him feel himself so despicable as a lie. Recollect that men act
lies without speaking them, and that all false appearances are lies. "He, therefore, who, seeing
his employer injured, neglects to make it known, is equally guilty--with this addition, that
he is practising a lie. Want of punctuality is a lie.

"Speak and act openly on all occasions. Errors will be fewer, and labour will be decreased.

"It seldom happens that we can do any important services, but small services are always in
use. Take, therefore, every opportunity of assisting each other,--you are then most effectually
serving your employers, as well as keeping up a spirit of cordiality and goodwill amongst yourselves.

"A good Christian must be a good servant. Whatever your lot in life may be above all things
remember that 'The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom.'"

CHAPTER X.

MASTERS AND MEN.

"The sweat of industry would dry, and die, But for the end it workrt to." Shakspeare.

"Man is a shop of rules, a well-trussed pack, Whose every parcel underwrites a law,"--George
Herbert.

"Care preserves what Industry gains. He who attends to his business diligently but not carefully,
throws away with one hand what he gathers with the other."--Colton.

"The acquisition of property, the accumulation of capital, is already in the power of the better-paid
working class; and legislation has but few further facilities to give, or obstacles to remove.
Their savings are now so large that only soberer habits and rounder sense are needed to make
them independent capitalists in less than half a lifetime."--W.R. Greg.

Employers can do a great deal towards promoting habits of thrift, prudence, and sobriety amongst
their workpeople. Though the working man does not like to be patronized, he has no objections
to be helped. We have already seen that individuals can do much; they can cultivate habits
of economy, and lay by a certain portion of their earnings for help in time of need. But they
want encouragement and assistance. They want sympathy; they want help.

If masters fully understood the immense amount of influence which they possess, they would
extend their sympathy and confidence to their workmen,--which Would cost them so very little,
and profit them so very much. We know of no instance where an employer has displayed a concern
for the social well-being and improvement of his workmen, in which he has not been repaid by
their increased respect and zeal on his behalf. He may, for instance, arrange that wages shall
not be paid so as to drive them into the market late on Saturday nights, when they are often
under the necessity of making their weekly purchases at a great disadvantage. Of course, workmen
who possess a little store of savings, might make their purchases at greater advantage at any
other time. The employer might also avoid paying wages in public-houses, and thus keep his
workmen out of the way of incurring an expenditure upon drink, that might prove so hurtful.

But masters can do more than this. They can actively aid their workmen in the formation of
prudent habits, by establishing savings banks for men and women, and penny banks for boys and
girls; by encouraging the formation of provident clubs and building societies, of provision
and clothing clubs, and in many other ways. They might also distribute among them, without
any officious interference, good counsel as to the manner in which they might make the best
use of their wages. Many large employers have already accomplished much practical good, by
encouraging the formation of provident institutions,--in which they have never failed to secure
the respect, and generally the co-operation, of their workmen.

At the same time there is much want of sympathy between masters and men. In fact, want of sympathy
pervades all classes--the poorer, the working, the middle, and the upper classes. There are
many social gaps between them, which cannot yet be crossed, which cannot yet be united. "If
I were to be asked," said Judge Talfourd, on whom Death was at the moment laying his hand,
"what is the great want of English society--to mingle class with class--I would say, in one
word, the want is the want of sympathy." A great truth, but not yet appreciated. It is the
old truth, on which Christianity is based, of "Love one another"--simple saying, but containing
within it a gospel sufficient to renovate the world. But where men are so split and divided
into classes, and are so far removed that they can scarcely be said to know one another, they
cannot have a due social regard and consideration, much less a genuine sympathy and affection,
for each other?

Charity cannot remedy the evil. Giving money, blankets, coals, and such-like, to the poor--where
the spirit of sympathy is wanting,--does not amount to much. The charity of most of the Lord
and Lady Bountifuls begins with money, and ends there. The fellow-feeling is absent. The poor
are not dealt with as if they belonged to the same common family of man, or as if the same
human heart beat in their breasts.

Masters and servants live in the same unsympathetic state. "Each for himself" is their motto.
"I don't care who sinks, so that I swim." A man at an inn was roused from his slumber; "There
is a fire at the bottom of the street," said the waiter. "Don't disturb me" said the traveller,
"until the next house is burning." An employer said to his hands, "You try to get all you can
out of me; and I try to get all I can out of you." But this will never do. The man who has
any sympathy in him cannot allow such considerations to overrule his better nature. He must
see the brighter side of humanity ever turned towards him. "Always to think the worst," said
Lord Bolingbroke, "I have ever found the mark of a mean spirit and a base soul."

On the other hand, the operative class consider their interests to be quite distinct from those
of the master class. They want to get as much for their labour as possible. They want labour
to be dear that they may secure high wages. Thus, there being no mutual sympathy nor friendly
feeling between the two classes,--but only money considerations,--collisions are frequent,
and strikes occur. Both classes--backed by their fellows determined to "fight it out," and
hence we have such destructive strikes as those of Preston, Newcastle, London, and South Wales.

The great end of both is gain, worldly gain, which sometimes involves a terrible final loss.
A general suspicion of each other spreads, and society becomes cankered to the core. The remedy
is only to be found in the cherishment of a larger Christian sympathy and more genuine benevolence.
Thus only can the breath of society be sweetened and purified. Money gifts avail nothing, as
between rich and poor. Unless there is a soul of goodness, and a real human fellowship between
them, the mischief and the curse which the excellent Judge Talfourd lamented with his dying
breath will never be overcome.

Some allege that this want of sympathy arises, for the most part, from the evils of Competition.
It is "heartless," "selfish," "mischievous," "ruinous," and so on. It is said to produce misery
and poverty to the million. It is charged with lowering prices, or almost in the same breath
with raising them. Competition has a broad back, and can bear any amount of burdens.

And yet there is something to be said for competition, as well as against it. It is a struggle,--that
must be admitted. All life is a struggle. Amongst workmen, competition is a struggle to advance
towards higher wages. Amongst masters, to make the highest profits. Amongst writers, preachers,
and politicians, it is a straggle to succeed,--to gain glory, reputation, or income. Like everything
human, it has a mixture of evil in it. If one man prospers more than others, or if some classes
of men prosper more than others, they leave other classes of men behind them. Not that they
leave those others worse, but that they themselves advance.

Put a stop to competition, and you merely check the progress of individuals and of classes.
You preserve a dead uniform level. You stereotype society, and its several orders and conditions.
The motive for emulation is taken away, and Caste, with all its mischiefs, is perpetuated.
Stop competition, and you stop the struggle of individualism. You also stop the advancement
of individualism, and through that of society at large.

Under competition, the lazy man is put under the necessity of exerting himself; and if he will
not exert himself, he must fall behind. If he do not work, neither shall he eat. My lazy friend,
you must not look to me to do my share of the world's work, and yours too! You must do your
own fair share of work, save your own money, and not look to me and to others to keep you out
of the poor-house. There is enough for all; but do your own share of work you must.

Success grows out of struggles to overcome difficulties. If there were no difficulties, there
would be no success. If there were nothing to struggle or compete for, there would be nothing
achieved. It is well, therefore, that men should be under the necessity of exerting themselves.
It has stimulated the shipbuilder, the merchant, the manufacturer, the machinist, the tradesman,
the skilled workman. In all departments of productive industry, it has been the moving power.
Is has developed the resources of this and of other countries,--the resources of the soil,
and the character and qualities of the men who dwell upon it. It seems to be absolutely necessary
for the purpose of stimulating the growth and culture of every individual. It is deeply rooted
in man, leading him ever to seek after, and endeavour to realize, something better and higher
than he has yet attained.

Of course, man is much more than a competing being. That is only one of his characteristics,
and not the highest or noblest. He has sensibilities, sympathies, and aspirations, which should
induce him to unite and cooperate with others in works for the common good. With unfettered
individualism, there may, and there ought to be, beneficent cooperation for the general happiness.
Men may unite to labour, to produce, and to share with each other the fruits of their corporate
industry. But under any circumstances, there will be the instinct of competition, the opportunities
for competition, and, though mixed with necessary evil, there will be the ultimate advantages
of competition.

One of the results of industry and thrift is the accumulation of Capital. Capital represents
the self-denial, the providence, and the enterprise of the past. The most successful accumulators
of capital have in all times risen from the ranks of labour itself; they are working men who
have shot ahead of their fellows, and who now give employment instead of receiving it. These
persons,--who are not the less working men because they have ceased to be manual labourers,--by
creating and extending the sphere of productive industry, must be regarded as amongst the most
effective benefactors of the people, as they unquestionably are among the principal sources
of the power and wealth of any nation. Without the capital accumulated by their thrift during
many generations, the lot of the artizan would be most precarious.

There is not a mechanic but has the use of the money of the master who employs him. When the
unskilled labourer lays down his spade, he leaves idle a capital worth eighteen-pence; but
when a skilled artizan or mechanic leaves his mill or his workshop, he leaves idle a capital
of from a hundred to two hundred pounds per man. Nor does the skilled workman run any risk
whatever as regards the sums invested, though he virtually shares the profits in the shape
of the wages paid for his labour. The profit which remains is the master's return for his management
and his risks. It is well known, however, that the risks are not always covered, as the Gazette
in bad times abundantly demonstrates.

The workman in good employment is not liable to losses by bad debts; he has no obsolete machinery
from time to time left useless on his hands; and he has no anxiety about finding a market for
his goods, nor fears respecting fluctuations in the price of the raw material. These are important
advantages in his favour, which he does not usually take into account. It is true he suffers
if trade is bad, but he earns high wages if it be good: he can then save money if he chooses
to do so. He may be said to participate in the adversity or prosperity of his firm, but without
incurring any of the liabilities of partnership.

Mr. Carlyle has given a curious account of the great English manufacturer.

This account of the manufacturing buccaneer is a picture drawn by a man of genius from his
imagination. There are probably many readers who believe the picture to be drawn from fact.
There may, of course, be masters who are buccaneers; but there are also masters who are not
buccaneers. There are dishonest manufacturers, as there are dishonest literary men, dishonest
publicans, dishonest tradesmen. But we must believe that in all occupations honesty is the
rule, and dishonesty the exception. At all events, it is better that we should know what the
manufacturers really are,--from fact rather than from fiction.

Let us first take a large manufacturing firm, or rather series of firms, well known in South
Lancashire. We mean the cotton-spinning mills of the Messrs. Ashworth at Egerton and New Eagley.
They have been in existence for more than seventy years. They have been repeatedly enlarged,
and increasing numbers of workpeople have been employed at the uniform wages paid throughout
the district. Workmen earn from seventeen shillings to two pounds a week. Women-weavers can
earn as much as twenty-one shillings a week. Where the parents have children, the united earnings
of families amount to as much as from £150 to £200 a year.

Then, as to what the Ashworths have done for the benefit of their workpeople. Schooling, by
means of mutual instruction classes, was in operation from the first; but about the year 1825,
when the works were greatly enlarged, and the population was considerably increased, a day
school was opened for children, which was used as an evening school for young men, as well
as for a Sunday-school. The continued extension of the works led to an enlargement of the school
accommodation; and while this was being provided, arrangements were made for a news-room, library,
and for the performance of divine worship on Sundays. A cricket-ground was also provided for
the use of young people.

Misgivings were not unfrequently expressed that the zeal and expenditure incurred by the Messrs.
Ashworth might one day be turned against them, to their annoyance and pecuniary loss. The prediction
was realized in only a single instance. A young man of considerable talent, who when a child
had been removed to the factory from a neighbouring workhouse, made very rapid progress at
school, especially in arithmetic; and when a strike of the workpeople occurred in 1830, one
of the great strike years, he became very officious as a leader. The strike was defeated by
the employment of new hands, and it was attributed to the influence of this young man that
the employed were brutally assailed by an infuriated mob, and that the windows of the schoolroom
were smashed, and other works of destruction committed.

The employers, nevertheless, pursued their original design. They repaired the school-house,
and endeavoured to increase the efficacy of the teaching. They believed that nothing was better
calculated to remove ignorant infatuation than increased schooling. In a great many instances,
the heads of the families had previously been engaged as hand-loom weavers, or in some pastoral
pursuit; and it became evident that in course of time the exercise of their minds in the details
of a new pursuit awakened their intelligence, and their general demeanour indicated marks of
a higher cultivation.

The New Eagley Mills being situated in a narrow valley, several miles from Bolton, and the
property being in the possession of the owners, they forbade the opening of any tavern or beerhouse
on the estate; so that the district became distinguished for the order and sobriety of the
inhabitants. A man of intemperate habits has little chance of remaining in the Ashworth villages.
He is expelled, not by the employers, but by the men themselves. He must conform to the sober
habits of the place, or decamp to some larger town, where his vices may be hidden in the crowd.
Many of the parents have expressed how much gratification they have felt, that by reason of
the isolated situation they enjoyed as a community, they had become so completely separated
from the corrupt influences of music saloons and drink-shops.

The masters have added to their other obligations to the workpeople, the erection of comfortable
cottages for their accommodation. They are built of stone, and are two-storied; some have two
upper bedrooms, and others have three. On the ground floor there is a sitting-room, a living-room,
and a scullery, with a walled courtyard enclosing the whole premises. The proprietor pays the
poor-rates and other local charges, and the rentals of the houses vary from 2s. 4d. to 4s.
3d. a week.

The regularity of their employment, accompanied with the payment of wages on Friday night,
doubtless promoted their local attachment to the place. Many of the descendants of the first
comers remain on the spot; their social relations have been promoted; intermarriages have been
frequent; and during the whole period there has not been a single prosecution for theft. The
working people have also thriven as well as their masters. Great numbers of them are known
to possess reserved funds in savings banks and other depositories for savings; and there are
others of them who have invested their money in cottage buildings, and in various other ways.

But have not the men risen above their lot of labouring spinners? They have. Such of them as
possessed skill, ability, and the faculty of organization, have been promoted from the ranks
of labourers, and have become mill managers. "About thirty of these," says Mr. Henry Ashworth,
"have been reckoned on the spur of the moment, and ten of them have become business partners
or proprietors of mills.... Many manufacturers," adds Mr. Ashworth, "are to be found who have
done a great deal to ameliorate the condition of those they have employed; and no one will
doubt that they have been prompted, not by hopes of gain, but by emotions of goodwill."[1]

[Footnote 1: The greater part of the above information is contained in the statement by Mr.
Henry Ashworth, in the Reports on the Paris Universal Exhibition, 1867, vol. vi., pp. 161-163.]

Manufacturers such as these do not, like Plugson of St. Dolly Undershot, gather up their fortunes
and run away, leaving a groat each to their workpeople to drink their healths. They remain
with them from generation to generation. The best and the noblest amongst them--the Ashworths
of Turton, the Strutts of Derby, the Marshalls of Leeds, the Akroyds of Halifax, the Brooks
of Huddersfield, and many others,--have continued to superintend their works for several generations.
The Strutts were the partners of Arkwright, who was almost the beginner of English manufacture.
In fact, it is only since Arkwright took out his patent for the spinning machine, and Watt
took out his patent for the steam engine, that England has become a manufacturing country.

Where would England have been now, but for the energy, enterprise, and public spirit of our
manufacturers? Could agriculture have supported the continuous increase of population? Is it
not more probable that this country would have become overrun by beggars,--or that property
would have been assailed and the constitution upset, as was the case in France,--but for the
extensive and remunerative employment afforded to the labouring classes in the manufacturing
districts? The steam engine has indeed proved the safety-valve of England. It enabled the kingdom
to hold its ground firmly during the continental wars; and but for it, and the industries which
it has established, England would probably by this time have sunk to the condition of a third
or fourth-rate power.

It is true, the great manufacturers have become wealthy. But it would certainly have been singular
if, with their industry, energy, and powers of organization, they had become poor! Men of the
stamp of the Strutts, Ashworths, Marshalls, and others, do not work for wealth merely, though
wealth comes to them. They have not become great because they were rich, but they have become
rich because they were great. Accumulations of wealth are the result of exceptional industry,
organization, and thrift, rather than of exceptional gain.

But it is not always so. For instance, Mr. Lister, of Bradford, after inventing the combing
machine,--or at least combining the inventions of others into a complete combing machine of
his own,--proceeded to invent a machine for using up silk waste (then cast away as useless),
spinning it into silk of the finest kind, and by means of the power-loom to weave it into velvet
of the best quality. The attempt had never before been made by any inventor; and it seemed
to be of insuperable difficulty. Mr. Lister had already made a fortune by the success of his
combing machine, such as to enable him to retire from business, and live in comfort for the
rest of his life. But, urged by the irrepressible spirit of the inventor, he went onward with
his silk machine. As he himself said, at a recent meeting at Bradford,[1]--"They might judge
how hard he had worked to conquer the difficulties which beset him, when he told them that
for twenty years he had never been in bed at half-past five in the morning; in fact, he did
not think there was a man in England who had worked harder than he had." The most remarkable
thing was, that he threw away an immense fortune before there was any probability of his succeeding.
"He had almost brought himself to ruin, for he was £360,000 out of pocket before he even made
a shilling by his machine; indeed, he wrote off a quarter of a million as entirely lost, before
he began to make up his books again. Since then, his patent for the manufacture of silk had
turned out one of the most successful of the day."

[Footnote 1: The meeting was held to receive the transfer of Mr. Lister's fine Park at Manningham,
which he had presented to the Corporation of Bradford, "to be a People's Park for ever."]

In the Park presented by Mr. Lister to the people of Bradford, a statue was recently erected
by public subscription. It was unveiled by the Right Hon. W.E. Forster, who, in closing his
speech, observed: "I doubt, after all, whether we are come here to do honour to Mr. Lister,
so much as to do honour to ourselves. We wish to do honour to those working faculties which
have made our country of England a practical, and therefore a great and prosperous, and a powerful
country. It is this untiring, unresting industry which Mr. Lister possesses, this practical
understanding, this determination to carry out any object which he is convinced ought to be
carried out, and his determination to fear no opposition and to care for no obstacle--it is
these practical faculties that have made England what she is. What is it especially that we
are honouring? It is the pluck which this man has shown; it is the feeling that, having to
do with the worsted trade, he said to himself, 'Here is something which ought to be done; I
will not rest until I have found out how it can be done; and having found out how it can be
done, where is the man who shall stop my doing it?' Now it was upon that principle that he
fought his long struggle; and so when we read the story of his struggles, ever since 1842,
in those two great inventions, we raise this statue to the man who has successfully fought
the battle, and hope that our sons and the sons of all, rich and poor together, will come in
after-days to admire it, not merely because it gives them the form and features of a rich and
successful man, but because it gives them the form and features of a man who was endowed with
industry, with intellect, with energy, with courage, with perseverance,--who spared himself
no pains in first ascertaining the conditions of the problems he had to solve,--and then whose
heart never fainted, whose will never relaxed, in determining to carry out those conditions."

Great men are wise savers and wise spenders. Montesquieu has said of Alexander: "He found the
first means of his prosperity and power in the greatness of his genius; the second, in his
frugality and private economy; and the third, in his immense liberality to accomplish great
objects. He spent but little on himself; but for public purposes his hand was always open."
It was also said of the first Napoleon, that he was economical like Charlemagne, because he
was great like Charlemagne. Napoleon was by no means a spendthrift, except in war; but he spent
largely in accomplishing great public undertakings. In cases such as these, economy and generosity
are well combined. And so it is in the cases of all men possessed of energy, industry, and
great powers of organization.

It may seem out of keeping to compare great producers with great commanders. Yet the manufacturer
often requires as much courage, as much genius, as much organizing power, as the warrior. The
one considers how he shall keep his operatives in working order; the other how he shall keep
his soldiers in fighting order. Both must be men of enterprize, of boldness, of keen observation,
and close attention to details. And the manufacturer, from his position, needs to be the most
benevolent man of the two. Viewed in this light, we regard Sir Titus Salt not only as a Captain
of Industry, but as a Field-Marshal of Industry. He has been called the Prince of Manufacturers.

Titus Salt is a son of a Yorkshire wool-stapler. In the early part of his life he was a farmer
near Bradford, and his inclination for agricultural pursuits was such, that it was thought
he would continue to pursue this vocation. Being, however, a partner with his father in the
wool business, and observing that manufactures were rapidly extending in the neighbourhood,
he withdrew from the partnership, and commenced business at Bradford as a wool-spinner. He
was one of the first to observe the uses of Alpaca wool. Large quantities of that material
were stored at Liverpool,--imported from the Brazils. But the wool found no purchasers, until
at length Mr. Salt bought a quantity, and spun it into an entirely new fabric. He then proceeded
to buy up all the Alpaca that was to be found at Liverpool; made arrangements for purchasing
all that came into the market; went on spinning Alpaca; and eventually established the manufacture.
This was the foundation of Mr. Salt's fortune.

At length, after about twenty years' labour as a manufacturer, Mr. Salt thought of retiring
from business, and again betaking himself to his favourite agricultural pursuits. He intended
to retire on his fiftieth birthday, but before that time had arrived (having five sons to provide
for) he reversed his decision, and resolved to continue in business a little longer, and to
remain at the head of the firm. Having come to this determination, he made up his mind to leave
Bradford. The borough was already overcrowded, and he did not like to be a party to increasing
the population. He looked about for a site suitable for a manufacturing establishment, and
at length fixed upon a large piece of ground in the beautiful valley of the Aire. An extension
of the Leeds and Bradford Railway was in front, and the Leeds and Liverpool Canal behind it,
so that there was every convenience for bringing up the raw materials, and of sending away
the manufactured goods. On that spot Saltaire was erected--a noble monument of private enterprise,
liberality, and wisdom.

It is not necessary to describe Saltaire. The buildings connected with the new works cover
six and a half acres. The principal room is five hundred and fifty feet long. The weaving shed
covers two acres. The combing shed occupies one acre. Everything is large, roomy, and substantial.
The cost of constructing the factory, and the dwellings for the workpeople, amounted to more
than a hundred and forty thousand pounds.

On the opening day, Mr. Salt dined three thousand five hundred persons in the combing shed.
At the dinner, he said: "I cannot look around me, and see this vast assemblage of friends and
workpeople, without being moved. I feel greatly honoured by the presence of the nobleman at
my side. I am especially delighted at the presence of my workpeople.... I hope to draw around
me a population that will enjoy the beauties of this neighbourhood,--a population of well-paid,
contented, happy operatives. I have given instructions to my architects that nothing is to
be spared to render the dwellings of the operatives a pattern to the country; and if my life
is spared by Divine Providence, I hope to see satisfaction, contentment, and happiness around me."

This promise has been amply fulfilled. Mr. Salt has been influenced throughout by his sense
of duty and responsibility. When he was applied to by the French Government for information
as to his factory, he replied: "What has been attempted at Saltaire arose from my own private
feeling and judgment, without the most remote idea that it would be made the subject of public
interest and inquiry." With respect to the factory itself, little need be said. The object
of its construction is to save time in the process of production. Not a minute is lost in pushing
the material from one department to another. Every horse-power of steam is made to do its utmost,
every moment of time is economized, and the productive capabilities of the factory are thus
greatly increased.

We prefer to speak of the immense improvement which Mr. Salt, or rather Sir Titus Salt, has
effected in the physical and moral condition of his workpeople. The plan of the works shows
that Saltaire has been provided with a church, a Wesleyan chapel, and a Literary and Philosophical
Institution. Large schools have been provided for boys, girls, and infants, with abundance
of play-ground. For young men as well as old, there is a cricket-ground, bowling-green, and
croquet-lawn, surrounded by pleasure-grounds. There is also a large dining-hall, baths and
washhouses, a dispensary, and almshouses for pensioners.

About three thousand persons are employed in the works; and seven hundred and fifty-six houses
have been erected for their accommodation. The rents run from two and fourpence to seven and
sixpence a week, according to the accommodation. Some of the houses are used as boarding-houses.
The rents include rates and water supply, and gas is sold at a low price. The cottages are
built of stone, lined with brickwork. They contain a parlour or long room, a kitchen or scullery,
a pantry and cellar, and three bedrooms. Each house has a separate yard, with the usual offices.
The workpeople are well able to pay the rents. Single workmen earn from twenty-four to thirty-five
shillings a week. A family, consisting of a father and six children, earn four pounds four
shillings a week, or equal to a united income of over two hundred and twenty pounds a year.

The comfortable houses provided for the workpeople have awakened in them that home feeling
which has led them to decorate their dwellings neatly and tastefully,--a sure sign of social
happiness. Every visitor among the poor knows how such things combine to prevent vice and disease,
to elevate the moral tone of working people, and to develope their intellectual powers. A man
in a dirty house, says Mr. Rhind, the medical attendant at Saltaire, is like a beggar in miserable
clothing. He soon ceases to have self-respect, and when that is gone there is but little hope.

Great attention is paid in Saltaire to education, even of the higher sort. There are day schools,
night schools, mutual improvement classes, lectures, and discussions. Music--one of the most
humanizing of pleasures--is one of the most favourite studies. "In almost every house in the
town some form of musical instrument is found; and indeed, the choral and glee societies, together
with the bands, have become household names." There is one full brass band for men, and another
drum-and-fife band for boys; and concerts, vocal and instrumental, are regularly given by the
workpeople in the dining-hall. The bands have instructors provided by the firm.

Besides taking part in the musical performances, a large number of the skilled workmen devote
their leisure hours to various scientific amusements,--such as natural history, taxidermy,
the making of philosophical instruments, such as air-pumps, models of working machinery, steam-engines,
and articles of domestic comfort,--while some have even manufactured organs and other musical
instruments.

There is no drinking-house in Saltaire, so that the vices and diseases associated with drunkenness
are excluded from the locality. The diseases peculiar to poverty are also unknown in Saltaire.
Everything is attended to--drainage, cleansing, and ventilation. There are baths of all kinds--plunge
baths, warm baths, Turkish baths, and douche baths; and the wash-house, to enable the women
to wash their clothes away from their cottages, is a great accommodation,--inasmuch as indoor
washing is most pernicious, and a fruitful source of disease, especially to the young.

The workpeople are also thrifty. They invest their savings in the Penny Bank and Saving's Bank;
whilst others invest in various building societies, gas companies, and other lucrative undertakings.
In fact, they seem to be among the most favoured of human beings. With every convenience and
necessity, as well as every proper pleasure provided for them,--with comfortable homes, and
every inducement to stay at home,--with fishing clubs, boating clubs, and cricket clubs,--with
schoolrooms, literary institutions, lecture-hall, museum, and class-rooms, established in their
midst; and to crown all, with a beautiful temple for the worship of God,--there is no wonder
that Saltaire has obtained a name, and that Sir Titus Salt has established a reputation among
his fellow-men.

There are large numbers of employers who treat their workpeople quite as generously, though
not in such a princely manner, as Sir Titus Salt. They pay the uniform rate of wages; help
and encourage the employed to economize their surplus earnings; establish Savings Banks and
Penny Banks for their use; assist them in the formation of co-operative associations for the
purchase of pure food at a cheaper rate; build healthy cottages for their accommodation; erect
schools for the education of their children; and assist them in every method that is calculated
to promote their moral and, social improvement.

Mr. Edward Akroyd, formerly M.P. for Halifax, is another manufacturer who has exercised great
influence throughout Yorkshire, by his encouragement of habits of thrift amongst working people.
In his own district, at Copley and Haley Hill, near Halifax, he has built numerous excellent
cottages for his workmen, and encouraged them to build their own houses by investing their
spare earnings in building clubs. He has established co-operative clubs, to enable the men
to purchase food and clothing at cost price. He has built excellent schools at his own expense,
and provided them with a paid staff of teachers. He has built and endowed the very fine church
of "All Souls" (Sir Gilbert Scott, architect), to which a large district, inclusive of the
works, has been assigned. He has provided for his workpeople, both at Haley Hill and Copley,
a Literary and Scientific Society, a Mutual Improvement Society, a Working Men's Library (to
which he has presented more than five thousand books), a Working Men's Club and Newsroom, a
Choral Society, supplied with an excellent library of music; a Recreation Club, provided with
a bowling green; and a cricket ground, with quoits, and gymnastic apparatus, Mr. Akroyd has
also allotted a large field to his workmen, dividing it into small gardens varying from a hundred
to two hundred and forty square yards each. The small rent charged for each plot is distributed
in prizes given at an annual flower-show held in his grounds, for the best growers of flowers,
plants, and vegetables. Hence the Haley Hill Horticultural and Floral Society, one of the most
thriving institutions of the kind in the neighbourhood. In short, Mr. Akroyd has done everything
that a wise and conscientious master could have done, for the purpose of promoting the moral
and spiritual welfare of the four thousand persons employed in his manufactories, who have
been virtually committed to his charge.

But although Mr. Akroyd has done so much as a master for the men and women employed by him,
he has perhaps done still more as a public benefactor by establishing the Yorkshire Penny Bank
for Savings. As early as the year 1852, Mr. Akroyd instituted a Savings Bank to enable his
workpeople to deposit sums of from one penny upwards. The system was found to work so well,
and to have such a beneficial effect in making people provident, that he conceived the idea
of extending its operations throughout the West Riding of Yorkshire. Having obtained the co-operation
of several influential gentlemen, the scheme was started in 1856, and an Act of Parliament
was obtained for constituting the Yorkshire Penny Savings Bank as it now exists.

Mr. Akroyd has recently furnished an Introduction to the narrative of the Yorkshire Penny Bank,
from which we extract the following passage:--

"The way by which thoughts, or chance suggestions, enter into the minds of men, is sometimes
passing strange! They may be the offspring of wayward fancy; or they may be the whisperings
from a higher source. To the latter cause I am willing to attribute the idea which flashed
across my mind during the present year to give to the public something beyond the bare outline
of the scheme, in which, for years, many of them have taken a warm personal interest.

"It occurred in this wise. When in town, I occasionally attended, during Lent, the services
at Whitehall Chapel, for the sake of hearing a Lenten sermon preached by one of Her Majesty's
chaplains. One remarkable sermon of the series was delivered by the Rev. Charles Kingsley,
on the 12th of March, on behalf of the Supplemental Ladies' Association of the London Society
of Parochial Mission Women. In the sketch which the preacher gave of this excellent institution,
he referred to a book entitled 'East and West,' in which the benefits derived by the London
poor from the association are clearly set forth; but he dwelt chiefly on the wide separation
which divides rich from poor, class from class, in London; and on the dangers which threaten
Society from this cause, as was recently exemplified in France. Such was the impression made
upon me by the sermon, that, before many days had elapsed, I had purchased 'East and West,'
and given the book a careful perusal.

"From previous observation I had been struck with the sad contrast between the luxurious lives
of those who reside at the West End of London, and the struggle for a hard, wretched existence
which the crowded poor at the East, or in close purlieus elsewhere, are obliged to maintain
until death closes the scene. How to bridge over the wide chasm intervening between the extremes
of high and low in society, without injury to self-respect on either side, was the puzzling
question, the problem to be solved. Yet, from the admirable introduction to this most useful
little work, by the Countess Spencer, it appeared that a lady of high rank, and her noble-minded
associates, had in some measure solved the problem, and bridged over the chasm.

"Hence I was led to reflect how much easier it is to discharge our duty to our neighbours,
and to fulfil the leading object of the Parochial Mission Women Association, to 'help the poor
to help themselves,' in provincial towns and in the country, where we are personally acquainted
with each other, than in London, where we do not know our next-door neighbour. To help the
poor to help themselves is the cardinal principle of the Yorkshire Penny Bank."[1]

[Footnote 1 e Yorkshire Penny Bank, a Narrative; with an Introduction by Edward Akroyd, M.P.]

The business of the bank commenced on the 1st of May, 1859. At the end of the year, when the
bank had been in operation seven months, twenty-four branches had been opened. It went on increasing
in the number of branches and depositors, and in the amounts deposited. In 1874, about two
hundred and fifty branches had been established, and the amount of investments in the names
of trustees had reached nearly four hundred thousand pounds.

The Yorkshire Penny Bank does not interfere with the Post Office Savings Bank. It has a special
function, that of teaching the young of either sex the habit of saving. It is also convenient
to the adult worker as a convenient receptacle for his savings. Many have been induced to save,
in consequence of the banks having been brought almost to their very doors. One of the most
remarkable facts connected with the history of Penny Banks is the sympathetic influence of
juvenile thrift upon paternal recklessness and intemperance. The fact is well worthy the consideration
of Temperance advocates, who would probably effect much greater practical good by enabling
working people to save their money in the Penny Banks, than by any speech-making agency. Take,
for instance, the following illustrations from Mr. Akroyd's narrative:--

An actuary says: "All the juvenile depositors seem inclined to take care of their pence by
depositing them in the bank; and the grown-up people have become of the same turn of mind,--rather
than carry their loose money to the public-house, or spend it foolishly. Some factory operatives
have saved sufficient to buy stock and commence farming."

Another actuary says: "A drunken father being shamed out of his drunkenness by the deposits
of his children, now deposits half-a-crown a week in the bank. A notoriously bad man, a collier,
became a regular depositor himself, as well as depositing money in the name of his child; all
his spare money having previously been spent in drink. From the date of his beginning to save,
a perceptible improvement took place in his conduct and character. In another case, two boys
prevailed upon their father, also a collier, to allow them to deposit a shilling a week, until
they had saved sufficient to buy themselves each a suit of new clothes. Before then, all their
father's earnings, as well as their own, had been spent in drink."

An actuary of another branch says he has seen fathers and mothers, who have been drunkards,
send their children with money to the bank, He says: "My heart was made to rejoice when I saw
a boy, who never had a suit of new clothes in his life, draw out his money, and in less than
two hours return well clad, to take his place in the school to practise singing for Good Friday.
At the meeting of the Band of Hope on Good Friday, he asked the parents and children to signify
by holding up their hands whether or not the bank had been beneficial to them; when many hands
were instantly raised,--one poor mother exclaiming, 'I will put up both my hands for my two
bairns!'"

"A miner, the father of a family, reclaimed from drunkenness, saved his money in the bank until,
with the aid of a loan from a building society, he built two houses at a cost of four hundred
pounds. The bank has been to many people what the hive is to the bee--a kind of repository;
and when the wintry days of sickness or adversity befall them, they have then the bank to flee
to for succour."

A missionary says: "I met a man and his wife about two years ago--both drunk. I got them to
sign the pledge, and since then to invest their money in our bank. The pawnbroker had got the
greater part of their goods; but I am happy to say that they have got all the articles out
of pawn, and can bring a little money almost every week to the bank; and when putting in the
money, the man says that it is better than taking it to the public-house. Their home is now
a very comfortable one."

A drunkard one night came to the bank, and flinging down a shilling for a start, said, "There!
that is the price of six pints of beer; but I promise the landlords that they shan't have as
much of my money as they have had." This man has become sober; and continues a regular depositor.

In another bank, a man who had been a reckless and desperate fellow was induced by his wife
to deposit a few coppers in the bank. He did so, and his weekly deposits increased; while at
the same time his visits to the public-house decreased. In the course of a short time he had
a respectable balance to his credit; and this induced him to take a share in a building society,
and then a second share. After continuing to pay upon these shares for some time, he purchased
a piece of land, upon which he built two houses. One of these he occupies himself, and the
other he lets. Besides this, he is now a respectable tradesman, having two or three journeymen
and an apprentice working for him. He is sober and steady, and much respected by his friends
and neighbours.

Many other cases of the same kind might be mentioned. In one case a boy saved sufficient money
to buy a suit of clothes for his father, who had spent all his earnings in drink, and reduced
himself and his family to poverty; in other cases, sons and daughters maintain their infirm
parents without resorting to the parochial Board for assistance. Some save for one thing; some
for another. Some save to emigrate; some to buy clothes; some to buy a watch; but in all cases
frugality is trained, until saving becomes habitual.

One of the Yorkshire actuaries of the Penny Bank tells the following anecdote as conveying
a lesson of perseverance and encouragement to branch managers. "Mr. Smith was one of our first
managers, but after attending two or three times he left us, saying it was 'childish work.'
My answer was, 'It is with children we have to do.' A short time after, I met him, and in the
course of conversation I observed that I sometimes got down in the mouth, and did not know
whether we were doing any good, and felt disposed to give up the bank; on which he warmly replied,
'For God's sake, you must not let such an idea get into your head; you little know the good
you are doing; we have not a man about our place but either himself or some members of his
family are depositors.'" The actuary adds, "If Colonel Akroyd ever despairs, I give him the
above answer."

Savings banks have thus been the means of doing an immense amount of good. They have brought
peace, happiness, and comfort into many thousands of families. The example of Mr. Akroyd should
be largely imitated, and there ought not to be a county in the kingdom without its organized
system of Penny Banks.

CHAPTER XI.

THE CROSSLEYS--MASTERS AND MEN (CONTINUED).

"The sense to enjoy riches, with the art
 T' enjoy them, and the virtue to impart."--Pope.

"The roughest road often leads to the smoothest fortune."--Franklin.

There are several large employers who have endeavoured to combine the principle of co-operation
with the business of manufacturing; and to furnish to the men who have contributed to their
past prosperity the opportunity of sharing in their future profits. The object of these masters
has been to obviate the antagonism between capital and labour, and to spread the spirit of
contentment among the operatives. Workmen who have saved their earnings, and stored them in
savings banks, are in this manner enabled to become partners in the concerns in which they
have formerly employed their labour.

The two principal manufacturing concerns of Halifax, those of James Akroyd and Son, and John
Crossley and Sons, have thus become converted into joint stock companies. They have been so
converted with the primary design of receiving the co-operation of the managers, workmen, and
others associated with them; and with that view the directors have in all cases given them
the priority in the allotment of the shares.

We have already referred to the philanthropic work accomplished by Edward Akroyd in the county
of York. We have now to refer to the Crossley firm, whose carpets are known throughout the
world. We refer to them with the greater pleasure, as their history contains a story which
may possibly add to the interest of this book,--which, however useful, some readers may consider
to be rather dull to read.

The founder of this firm was John Crossley. He belonged to an old Yorkshire family. His grandfather,
who lived at King's Cross, near Halifax, was born of respectable parents, and had a good education,
yet he was by no means fond of business. In fact, he spent the greater part of his time in
hunting and shooting. His wife was, however, of a very different character. She was industrious,
energetic, and an excellent household manager. She not only maintained herself, but her husband
and her family. She did this by means of a boarding school which she kept,--one of the best
in the neighbourhood of Halifax.

One of her sons, the father of John Crossley, was brought up to carpet-weaving. He learnt his
business with Mr. Webster, of Clay-pits, one of whose daughters he afterwards married. John
Crossley himself also became a carpet-weaver with his uncle; and when his apprenticeship was
finished, he went to weave for Mr. Currer, a large carpet manufacturer at Luddenden Foot. While
working at this factory, his master built a large fine house to live in. He thought he had
money enough saved for the purpose, but circumstances proved that he had not. Mr. Currer told
his foreman that he had kept an account of its cost until he had spent £4,000, and then he
became so disgusted that he burnt the memorandum book, although the house was not nearly finished.
He said "he had done all that to please a woman,"--meaning his wife. Although Mr. Currer was
an excellent man of business, his wife was too fond of show, and the large fine house in which
she was to live proved her husband's ruin. He died shortly after it was finished, and then
the whole of his establishment was broken up.

After leaving Mr. Currer, John Crossley removed to Halifax to take the management of Mr. Job
Lees' carpet manufactory in Lower George Yard, Halifax. He began to look out for a wife, and
the history of his courtship is curious as well as interesting. The Crossleys seem to have
had the good fortune to fall in with excellent wives; and the prosperity of the family is quite
as much due to the Crossley women as to the Crossley men.

Martha Crossley, the future wife of John Crossley, was born at Folly Hall, near the Ambler
Thorn Bar. Her great-grandfather, Thomas Turner, was a farmer. He lived at the Upper Scout
Hall, Shibden, and the farm-house which he occupied, at the head of the Shibden Valley, is
still in existence. The eldest son was brought up to his father's business. The youngest son,
Abraham, was brought up to farming, weaving, and combing. He married, and had three children--Abraham,
Thomas, and Martha. Abraham, the eldest, was father of Mrs. John Crossley, née Turner.

Abraham was also brought up to farming and manufacturing; but it must be remembered that manufacturing
was in those days conducted on a very much smaller scale than it is now. He afterwards went
into partnership with his brother Thomas, to make worsted goods, but after his marriage the
partnership was dissolved. He then became the proprietor of the Scout Farm, and there brought
up his family.

Although Abraham Turner was a landed proprietor, he did not think it beneath him to allow his
daughter Martha to go out to service. When about fifteen years old she went as a servant to
Miss Oldfield at Warley. In that service, in her own person, she did the work of kitchenmaid,
housemaid, and cook, and in addition to that, she milked four or five cows night and morning.
She remained about ten years with Miss Oldfield. Her wages were at first fifteen-pence a week;
after two years, they were increased to eighteen-pence; and after nine years' service, they
were increased to six guineas a year. Yet during that time Martha Turner saved thirty pounds
by sheer thrift.

John Crossley, the founder of the Crossley firm, and the husband of Martha Turner, was originally
a carpet-weaver. One night, when working at the loom, he was taking his "drinking," and on
laying down his black bottle it fell and broke. In trying to catch the bottle, he cut his arm
so severely that it was thought he would have bled to death. He could not work at the loom
any longer, and he was going about with his arm in a sling, when his employer, Mr. Currer,
said to him, "John, do you think you could tie up a loom, as you cannot now weave?" John replied
that he thought he could. He tried, and proved so expert that his master would not allow him
to go back to the loom. John Crossley used to regard the accident to his arm as the turning-point
in his life.

In the meantime he was going on with the business of courtship, though it was very much against
the wish of the proud farmer--the father of Martha Turner. He declared that he would never
allow his daughter to marry a weaver, or even a foreman of weavers. Perhaps the story of their
courtship is best told in Martha's own words.

"When I went to the gate one evening, there was a young man standing there, who asked me if
I wanted a sweetheart. I answered, 'Not I, marry! I want no sweethearts.' I then went into
the house, and left him. I saw the same young man frequently about, but did not speak to him
for years after. His name was John Crossley. When my mistress ascertained his object, she did
all she could to set me against him. She told me that when she was a girl, she had gone to
a boarding-school kept by a Mrs. Crossley,--that her husband's name was Tom Crossley, the grandfather
of this very man that was courting me,--and that a wilder, idler scapegrace she never knew.
She always said, when she saw him coming, 'There's young Crossley come again.'

"One day I received a love-letter from him, which I could now repeat word for word. I had several
other suitors, but none were so persevering as John Crossley. He pressed me very much to have
him. At last he sent me a letter to say that a house was vacant in Lower George Yard, close
to the works he was managing, and that it was a great chance to meet with one so convenient.
I told him that I was going home to spend the 5th of November, and would pass that way and
look at the house, which I did. When I got home I asked my parents for their consent. They
did not object much to it at the time; but I had not been at Miss Oldfield's more than a day
or two, before they sent over my sister Grace to say that they would not give their consent
to the match, and that if I insisted on being married to John Crossley, they would never look
me in the face again.

"So soon as my sister was gone, I retired in a most distressed state of feeling to my bedroom,
and opened my book that was the preparation for the sacrament, and the first place at which
I opened I read these words: 'When thy father and thy mother forsake thee, then the Lord will
take thee up.' This comforted me very much. I felt that the Lord was with me in this matter,
and I could no longer doubt which was the path of duty.... I decided to accept John Crossley's
offer, and we were married on the 28th day of January, 1800."

Mr. Crossley never did a better day's work than in marrying his excellent and noble wife. From
that day forward she was his helper, his co-worker, his consoler. She assisted her husband
in all his struggles, and in a certain sense she was the backbone of the Crossley family.

After the death of Mr. Job Lees, whose carpet manufactory he had managed, Mr. Crossley entered
into partnership with two other persons, to take the plant and carry on the business. Some
difference having occurred with the partners, he left the firm, and took a lease of Dean Clough
Mill, where he entered into another partnership with his brother Thomas, and James Travers.
There they carried on the business of worsted spinning. At the same time, John Crossley continued
to spin and dye the yarns and to manage the looms of the firm which he had left. In fact, the
dyeing and spinning for the old firm formed a considerable part of the business of the new
one. Then came a crisis. The old firm took away their work: they sent the wool to be spun and
the yarn to be dyed elsewhere. This was a great blow; but eventually it was got over by extra
diligence, energy, and thrift,--Mrs. Crossley herself taking a full share in the labours and
responsibility of her husband.

"In addition to the carpet making," she says in the Manuscript Memoir of her life, "we carried
on the manufacture of shalloons and plainbacks, the whole of which I managed myself, so far
as putting out the warps and weft, and taking in from the weavers. We had at one time as many
as a hundred and sixty hand weavers on these goods. We sold the principal part of them in London.
We had also about four looms making brace webs and body belts. The produce of these looms I
sold principally to the Irish, who made them up into braces and hawked them about the country.
I also made and stitched, with assistance, all the carpets that we sold retail. I used to get
up to work by four o'clock in the morning, and being very diligent, I have usually earned two
shillings before breakfast, by the time that my neighbours were coming downstairs."

The partnership of Crossley, Travers, and Crossley, lasted for twenty years. When the term
had expired, the partners shared their savings; they amounted to £4,200, or fourteen hundred
pounds to each. This was not a very large sum to make during twenty years' hard work; but Dean
Clough Mill was then but a small concern, and each partner did his own share of handiwork in
spinning, dyeing, and weaving. Mrs. Crossley says that "the fourteen hundred pounds came in
very useful." In fact, it was only a beginning. John Crossley eventually bought the Dean Clough
Mills out and out. He had a family of eight children to provide for; and he put his sons for
the most part into his business. They followed the example of their parents, and became thrifty,
useful, and honourable men.

John Crossley, the founder of the firm, has observed, that in the course of his life he was
a keen observer of men and things. He says he noticed many of the failures of his neighbours
in bringing up their children. Some fathers were so strict with their children, keeping them
so constantly at home, and letting them see so little of the world in which they lived, that
when the fathers died and the children were removed from all restraint, they came forth into
the world like calves, and found everything entirely different from what they expected. Such
unguided young persons, Mr. Crossley found, soon became wild, lost, and ruined. Then he observed
the opposite extreme,--where the fathers indulged their children so much, that they became
quite unfitted to endure the hardships of the world,--and, like a vessel that is sent to sea
without a helm, they soon became stranded on the shores of life.

Hence Mr. Crossley endeavoured to steer clear of both extremes, and to give to his sons as
much knowledge and experience of life as possible. When at home, he always had one of his sons
near him; or when he went from home, he always took one of them with him. Thus they gained
a great deal of practical knowledge of life, and knew something of the good and evil in the
world; and as they grew older, they were all the better able to turn their own lives to the
best account.

It is not necessary to follow the history of the Crossley family further. John Crossley died
in 1837, after which the firm was conducted by John, Joseph, and Sir Francis Crossley, Bart.
The latter represented the West Riding of the county of York at the time of his death, a few
years ago. In 1857 he purchased a splendid piece of ground, which he presented to the Corporation
of Halifax, to be used as a People's Park for ever. In the speech which he made on the occasion
of presenting it, he said, amongst other things, that he had often discussed with his friend
the Mayor the philosophy of money. "I recollect very well," he said, "once entering into the
question with him, when I was twenty years younger than I am now, and saying that I saw a great
deal of emptiness about this money-getting; that many were striving for that which they thought
would make them happy, but that it was like a bubble upon the water--no sooner caught than
burst.... Had I," he afterwards said, "been of noble birth, or traced my origin (like some
in this room) to those who came in with William the Conqueror, however true it might be, it
would not have been good, it would even be boastful to have done so.[1] But since I am of humble
birth, perhaps it will be allowed me to say a little of those who ought to share the honour
which is heaped upon me. My mother was the daughter of a farmer who lived upon his own estate,
and although it was not large, it had been in the family for many generations. Her father made
the same mistake that Jacob made,--Jacob made too much of Joseph, and her father made too much
of Mary. My mother was seventeen, and quick in disposition. She said that right was not done
to her at home, and she was determined to make her own way in the world, whatever the consequences
might be. She went out to service, contrary to the wish of her father. I am honoured to-day
with the presence of one who has descended from the family who engaged her as servant: I mean
Mr. Oldfield, of Stock Lane, vice-chairman of the Halifax Board of Guardians. In that service,
in her own person, she did the work of kitchenmaid, of housemaid, and of cook; and in addition
to that she regularly milked six cows every night and morning. Besides which, she kept the
house, which was as clean as a little palace. But this was not enough to employ her willing
hands. Her mistress took in wool or tops to spin, and she could do what scarcely any in Warley
could have done,--she spun that wool to thirty-six hanks in the pound, and thus earned many
a guinea for her mistress, besides doing all her other work."[2]

[Footnote 1: Those who "came in with William the Conqueror" are not the oldest but the youngest
of British families. They are the most recent occupiers of British soil. The Angles and Saxons,
whose lands the Normans divided amongst themselves, occupied Britain many hundred years before
the arrival of the Conqueror. In the remote dales of Yorkshire and Lancashire, the ancient
race still exists. And thus the Crossley family may have a much longer pedigree, could they
but trace it, than any of those who "came in with William the Conqueror." The latter are able
to trace their origin because their numbers are so small, their possessions so large, and their
introduction as English proprietors comparatively so recent.]

[Footnote 2: In these snobbish days, when rich people are so often ashamed of their fathers
and grandfathers, and vainly endeavour to make out their ancient 'nobility,' it was honest
and manly on the part of Sir Francis Crossley thus publicly to relate these facts; and to share
with his mother the honour of conferring his splendid present of the People's Park on the townsmen
of Halifax.]

Sir Francis went on to relate the history of his father (as given above from his own manuscript),
until the time when he took the Dean Clough Mill. "My mother," he says, "went thither with
her usual energy. As she was going down the yard at four o'clock in the morning, she made this
vow: 'If the Lord does bless us at this place, the poor shall taste of it.' It is to this vow,
given with so much faithfulness, and kept with so much fidelity, that I attribute the great
success which my father had in business. My mother was always looking how she could best keep
this vow. In the days that are gone by, when it was a dreary thing to give employment to a
large number of people, the advice that she gave to her sons was, 'Do not sell your goods for
less than they cost, for it would ruin you without permanently benefiting any one; but if you
can go on giving employment during the winter, do so, for it is a bad thing for a working man
to go home and hear his children cry for bread, when he has none to give them.'"

And now with respect to the manner in which Sir Francis Crossley fulfilled the vow of his mother.
"On the 10th of September, 1855," he said, "I left Quebec early in the morning, for the White
Mountains in the United States. I remember passing through some of the most glorious scenery
I had ever seen. On reaching the hotel at the White Mountains, I went out alone for an evening
walk. It was a beautiful spot. The sun was just declining behind Mount Washington, amidst all
the glorious drapery of an American sunset. I felt as if I was walking with God. 'What,' said
I, 'shall I render for all His benefits to me? Lord, what wilt Thou have me to do?' The answer
came immediately. It was this: 'It is true thou canst not bring the many thousands thou has
left behind thee in thy native country, to see this beautiful scenery, but thou canst take
such scenery to them. It is possible so to arrange art and nature that they shall be within
the reach of every working man in Halifax; that he shall go and take his evening walk there,
after his day's toil has been done.' Well, that seemed to me a glorious thought! I walked home,
and my prayer that night was, that in the morning I might feel that my thought was justified,
and that I might be spared to put it in execution. I slept soundly that night, and when I awoke
my impression was confirmed. On the 10th of September, when I left Quebec for the White Mountains,
I had no more idea of making a park than any one here has of building a city. On the day I
reached home, I felt as convinced that I should carry out my thought, as I was of my own existence.
And from that day to this I have never flinched from the undertaking, whatever difficulties
might arise. It is a happy day for me that I have been permitted to see the result, in the
People's Park that has been opened to-day."

The Park was opened in August, 1857.[1] Three years later, a fine statue of Sir Francis Crossley
(by Mr. Joseph Durham) was placed in the Park, so that all comers, while beholding the princely
gift, might also see the form and features of the giver. The cost of the statue was defrayed
by public subscription, in which persons of all political parties joined. The preparation of
the statue was delayed by the revolution in Italy, which placed Victor Emanuel on the Italian
throne. While the quarrymen at Carrara were digging out the block of marble of which the figure
was to be sculptured, they were roused by shouts of "Liberty," coupled with the name of Garibaldi,
and they left their work to join the banner of that victorious leader. In front of the statue
is the following inscription: "This statue of Frank Crossley, Esq., M.P. for the West Riding
of the county of York, donor of the People's Park, was erected August 14, 1860, by the inhabitants
of Halifax, his native town, as a tribute of gratitude and respect to one whose public benefactions
and private virtues deserve to be remembered."

[Footnote 1: The Park is situated in the centre of the borough of Halifax, and covers twelve
acres and a half of ground. It cost Sir Francis Crossley £35,000, who also gave to the Corporation
£6,300 to be invested for its maintenance.]

But the vow of Martha Crossley was not yet entirely fulfilled: "If the Lord does bless us at
this place, the poor shall taste of it." That was what she promised on her husband's entering
into possession of Dean Clough Mills; and her sons have nobly fulfilled her promise. In 1864,
the extensive business of John Crossley and Sons, with all its mills, machinery, plant, warehouses
and stock-in-trade--at Halifax, Kidderminster, Manchester, and London,--was converted into
a joint-stock company. The company was formed with the primary design of receiving the co-operation
of all parties associated with the business, and with the object of securing a spirit of harmony
and the material well-being and profit of the workpeople, clerks, managers, and others interested
in the concern. In order to enable the workpeople to join in the business, a large sum of money
was lent to them for the purpose of taking up returned shares in the company; and the workpeople
took them up to a large extent. A preference was always given to the managers and operatives;
and the amount of shares applied for by them was invariably allotted in full.

The results of this system have proved entirely satisfactory; the directors reporting that
"the active energies of all parties necessary to ensure success have been fully enlisted. They
claim originality, in their method of securing the direct interest of the employés, and they
rejoice in being able to report that the system has more than realized their highest expectations."[1]
At the present time, the employés hold shares in the company, of the value of about thirty
thousand pounds; and the deposit bank, founded for the use of the workpeople exclusively, contains
money-savings amounting to more than sixteen thousand pounds! And thus the vow of Martha Crossley,
that the poor should taste of the prosperity of John Crossley and Sons, has been amply and
nobly fulfilled! The collieries were converted into a limited company in 1865. The working
colliers were made partners in the prosperity of the concern to this extent,--that whenever
the divisible profits accruing from the business in any year, after making allowance for depreciation,
exceeded ten per cent, on the capital embarked, all those employed by the company were to receive
one-half of such excess profit as a bonus, to be distributed amongst them in proportion to
their respective earnings during the year. The object of the owners was to put an end to strikes,
which had sometimes placed them in peril of their lives, and also to enable them to live on
better terms with their workpeople. The colliers were invited to become shareholders, and thus
to take a personal interest in the prosperity of the concern.

The project was received with great favour by the friends of co-operation. Mr. John Stuart
Mill, in his Principles of Political Economy, announced that "the Messrs. Briggs had taken
the first step; and that it was highly honourable on the part of those employers of labour
to have initiated a system so full of benefit both to the operatives employed and to the general
interests of social improvement." Mr. Hughes, M.P., after visiting the collieries, expressed
his surprise at the great success achieved in the first year of working the collieries as a
partnership of industry. "I believe," he said to the owners, "that in taking this step you
have done a great work for England, and one which will be gratefully recognized before long
by the country." The promoters also claimed a reward from the Paris Universal Exhibition, for
having been "the first large employers in England who have allowed all their workpeople, whether
co-shareholders with them or not, to participate in all divisible profits beyond a fixed percentage
on the paid-up capital of the company."

Only a few years have passed, and already this promising partnership of industry has come to
an end. It has not been brought to an end by the masters, but by the men. The masters were
satisfied with the profits made during the recent high prices of coal; but the men were not
satisfied with the wages. Had they been as free as the Welsh colliers, they would have insisted
on being paid as highly; but it would have been, as it was in Wales, ruinous to the masters.
The system of industrial partnership had at length to be abandoned, and the men now work for
wages instead of for part-profits. The truth is, the colliers were not sufficiently educated
to appreciate the advantages of the industrial scheme. Though some of the Whitwood workmen
have been stimulated by thrift, to build and furnish houses of their own, the greater number
of them, during the recent flush of prosperity, squandered their wages on frivolity, extravagance,
and intemperance.

The attempt was also made by several firms engaged in the iron trade, to embody the principle
of co-operation in their respective concerns. Amongst these were the firms of Greening and
Co., Manchester, and Fox, Head, and Co., Middlesborough.

The experiments were to a certain extent brought to an end by the greed or laziness of the
colliers, who have for a time destroyed the prosperity of the iron trade. Messrs. Greening
and Co. started with great enthusiasm; and the results were very successful as regards the
workpeople. Nothing could have been better than the spirit of goodwill, and even devotion,
which was displayed by many of them. But, unhappily, contracts were taken by the management,
which resulted in a series of losses; and the scheme ended in liquidation. Mr. Greening states
that "the Distribution Societies have as yet been much more successful than the Production
Societies;" but he hopes "to see the latter crown the edifice by making workers everywhere
no longer servants, but co-partners with capital."

The firm of Fox, Head, and Co. also admitted their workmen to a partnership of profits. They
had for some time been much annoyed by strikes. Their works had stood idle for about a fourth
of the whole time that had elapsed since their commencement. The system of co-operation was
adopted in 1866, at the close of a long strike. One of the conditions of the scheme was that
Fox, Head, and Co. should not be members of any association of employers, and that the workmen
should not be members of any trades union. The original intention was to pay the workmen a
bonus according to profits. They eventually adopted the practice of the Messrs. Briggs and
Co., which was, to divide the profits over ten per cent. into two parts: the one to belong
to the capitalists as their profit, and the other to be divided amongst all those who had received
wages or salaries during the year, in proportion to the amount received by them. An opportunity
was also afforded to the workmen of depositing their savings with the firm; but as there was
only one instance, during three years, of a workman applying to invest his savings, this clause
was withdrawn.

In consequence of the depressed state of the iron trade, there were no profits to be divided
during the first two years. The men were, however, paid the current rate of wages, and were
saved the expenses of Union levies. The co-operative store, which had been founded by the workmen,
was in a very prosperous condition. In the third year of the co-operative scheme, a bonus of
two and a half per cent, was divided between the employers and the employed. The workmen also
received an advance of five per cent. in wages. In the fourth year the wages of the workmen
were further increased ten per cent., and this took the cream off the bowl. However, a bonus
of four per cent. was paid on the wages and salaries received by the employés during that year.
At the meeting held to communicate the result of the year's business, Mr. Head said:--

"There may be some who think the tendency of our policy has been too sentimental. I don't believe
in doing business on sentimental principles. But I contend that mere money-making is not the
sole end of existence. We have been associated with many of you for several years, and we cannot
help feeling a considerable interest in you. After all, life is not so very long. Another twenty
or thirty years will see us all under ground, and there will be other employers and other workmen
carrying on business at Newport Rolling Mills. It would indeed be strange if we did not take
some interest in those with whom we are so much associated. And so, without in the least relaxing
discipline, or sacrificing any true principle of business, we hold it to be our duty as employers,
as well as your duties as employés, to consider each other's interests, and to do all that
each of us can in the way of true and hearty co-operation."

The coal famine began to tell upon the iron-workers. The furnaces were often laid off for want
of coal. The principal causes of the bad supply of coal arose from shorter hours of labour,
and higher wages for less work. Yet a bonus of three and a quarter per cent, was allowed on
the wages and salaries received by the employés during the year 1871. The co-operative stores
continued to be very productive, and many of the members saved considerable sums of money.
In the next year, a bonus of three and a half per cent, was divided. But difficulties were
in store. The coal famine continued. The employers of labour held meetings to resist the successive
advances of wages, and to counteract the operations of the trades unions.

Mr. Head strongly urged the men to hold together: "Cease to be deluded," he said, "by these
trades unions. Save all you can, and with your savings provide against the day of sickness--a
day which is sure to come sooner or later. Provide for old age; read good books,--you have
every chance now, with a free library in the town. Give credit to others for wishing to be
straightforward and honest as well as yourselves; and in every way I would ask you to act as
reasonable, straightforward, sensible English workmen ought to do. Show that you can appreciate
being well used, that you can appreciate those who put themselves to trouble that they may
do you good; and beware lest, by want of sympathy, you drive the best of the employers out
of the business, and retain those alone who are despotic and tyrannical. Cease to follow those
who are actuated by self-interest, or by blind impulse; who do not care a bit if they get you
into trouble, provided only they serve their own selfish ends. Such men are but blind leaders
of the blind, and if you follow them you will eventually find yourselves deserted, and lying
hopelessly and helplessly in the last ditch."

It was of no use. The men's wages went up twenty per cent.; and there was an end of the bonuses.
The coal famine continued. The masters, instead of making profits, made immense losses. The
price of iron went down. The mills stood idle for two months. The result was, that when the
masters next met the workmen in public meeting, Mr. Waterhouse, the auditor, reported that
"while the gross earnings of the year have exceeded the expenditure on materials, wages, and
trade charges, they have been insufficient to cover the full amounts to be provided under the
co-operative scheme for interest on capital, depreciation, and the reserve for bad debts; and
that consequently it was his duty to declare that no amount was at present payable as bonus
either to employers or employed." No further report was issued in 1875, excepting an announcement
that there was no dividend, and that the firm did not intend to continue the co-operative scheme
any longer. During the time that it lasted, the employés had received about eight thousand
pounds in bonuses.

Since then, Sir Joseph Whitworth has announced his intention of giving his workmen a bonus
upon his profits; but the principle of the division has not yet been announced. On hearing
of his intention, Mr. Carlyle wrote the following letter to Sir Joseph:--

"Would to heaven that all the captains of industry in England had a soul in them such as yours.
The look of England is to me at this moment abundantly ominous, the question of capital and
labour growing ever more anarchic, insoluble altogether by the notions hitherto applied to
it--pretty sure to issue in petroleum one day, unless some other gospel than that of the 'Dismal
Science' come to illuminate it. Two things are pretty sure to me. The first is that capital
and labour never can or will agree together till they both first of all decide on doing their
work faithfully throughout, and like men of conscience and honour, whose highest aim is to
behave like faithful citizens of this universe, and obey the eternal commandments of Almighty
God, who made them. The second thing is, that a sadder object than even that of the coal strike,
or any other conceivable strike, is the fact that--loosely speaking--we may say all England
has decided that the profitablest way is to do its work ill, slurily, swiftly, and mendaciously.
What a contrast between now and say only a hundred years ago! At the latter date all England
awoke to its work--to an invocation to the Eternal Maker to bless them in their day's labour,
and help them to do it well. Now, all England--shopkeepers, workmen, all manner of competing
labourers--awaken as with an unspoken but heartfelt prayer to Beelzebub,--'Oh, help us, thou
great Lord of Shoddy, Adulteration, and Malfeasance, to do our work with the maximum of sluriness,
swiftness, profit, and mendacity, for the devil's sake. Amen.'"

Fortunately, there is not a great deal of truth in this letter, nor in the "heartfelt prayer"
to Shoddy. The Right Hon. Mr. Forster ought to know something of labour and capital, and at
a recent meeting of the Cobden Club he stated that "they were often told that they had a war
within their borders between labour and capital; but as an employer of labour ever since he
came to manhood, he would only say that he never knew a time in which employer and employed
were on better terms."

The late Sir Francis Crossley observed that there was a good deal of unreasonable feeling abroad.
It was held by some that it was wrong for working men to sell their labour at the best price;
but it must be remembered that their labour was the only thing they had to sell; and the best
thing to do was to leave those matters to take their natural course. It was a great mistake,
on the part of employers, to suppose that the lowest-priced labour was always the cheapest.
If there was not so much desire to run down the price of labour, and the masters showed a more
conciliatory spirit, there would be fewer strikes and outrages.

"What a contrast between now and say only a hundred years ago!" Certainly there is a very great
contrast. England was not a manufacturing country a hundred years ago. We imported nearly everything,
except corn, wool, and flax. We imported the greatest part of our iron from Spain, Sweden,
Germany, and Russia. We imported our pottery from Holland, our hats from Flanders, our silk
from France, our cloth and carpets from Belgium. Our cotton manufactures, our woollen and flax
manufactures, our machine manufactures, could scarcely be said to exist. Coal could scarcely
be had, for the coal-pits could not be kept clear of water.

A hundred years ago, we could not build a steam-engine; we could scarcely build a bridge. Look
at the churches built a hundred years ago, and behold the condition of our architecture. A
hundred years ago, we had fallen to almost the lowest condition as a nation. We had not a harbour;
we had not a dock. The most extensive system of robbery prevailed on the River Thames. The
roads, such as they were, swarmed with highwaymen; and black-mail was levied by the Highlanders
upon the Lowland farmers, down to the middle of last century.

A hundred years ago, our ships were rotten; they were manned by prisoners taken from the hulks,
or by working men pressed in the streets in open day. When James Watt was learning his trade
of an instrument maker in London, a hundred years ago, he durst scarcely walk abroad lest he
should be seized and sent to India or the American plantations. Less than a hundred years ago,
the colliers and salters of Scotland were slaves. It is not forty years since women and children
worked in coalpits. Surely we are not to go down upon our knees and pray for a restoration
of the horrible things that existed a hundred years ago.

A hundred years ago, Ireland was treated like a conquered country; and hangings and shootings
of rebels were frequent. The fleet at the Nore mutinied; and the mutiny was put down by bloodshed
and executions. Towns and cities swarmed with ruffians; and brutal sports and brutal language
existed to a frightful degree. Criminals were hanged, five or six together, at Tyburn. Gibbets
existed at all the cross-roads throughout the country. The people were grossly ignorant, and
altogether neglected. Scepticism and irreligion prevailed, until Wesley and Whitfield sprang
up to protest against formalism and atheism. They were pelted with rotten eggs, sticks, and
stones. A Methodist preacher was whipped out of Gloucester.

A hundred years ago, literature was at a very low ebb. The press was in a miserable state.
William Whitehead was Poet Laureate! Who knows of him now? Gibbon had not written his "Decline
and Fall." Junius was the popular writer. Political corruption was scarified in his letters.
The upper classes were coarse, drunken, and ill-mannered. Bribery and corruption on the grossest
scale were the principal means for getting into Parliament. Mr. Dowdeswell, M.P. for Worcestershire,
said to the Commons, "You have turned out a member for impiety and obscenity. What halfdozen
members of this House ever meet over a convivial bottle, that their discourse is entirely free
from obscenity, impiety, or abuse of Government?"

Though drunkenness is bad enough now, it was infinitely worse a hundred years ago. The publican's
signboards announced, "You may here get drunk for a penny, dead-drunk for twopence, and have
clean straw for nothing." Drunkenness was considered a manly vice. To drink deep was the fashion
of the day. Six-bottle men were common. Even drunken clergymen were not unknown.

What were the popular amusements of the people a hundred years ago? They consisted principally
of man-fighting, dog-fighting, cock-fighting, bull baiting, badger-drawing, the pillory, public
whipping, and public executions. Mr. Wyndham vindicated the ruffianism of the Ring in his place
in Parliament, and held it up as a school in which Englishmen learnt pluck and "the manly art
of self-defence." Bull-baiting was perhaps more brutal than prize-fighting, though Wyndham
defended it as "calculated to stimulate the noble courage of Englishmen." The bull was secured
to a stake in the market-place or the bull-ring (the name still survives in many towns), and
there the animal was baited by the rabble dogs of the neighbourhood. One can scarcely imagine
the savageness of the sport--the animal mutilations, the imprecations of ruffians worse than
brutes, the ferociousness and drunkenness, the blasphemy and unspeakable horrors of the exhibition.
The public mind of this day absolutely revolts at such brutality. Yet, less than a hundred
years ago--on the 24th of May, 1802,--a Bill for the abolition of bull-baiting was lost in
the House of Commons by sixty-four to fifty-one,--Mr. Wyndham contending that horse-racing
and hunting were more cruel than bull-baiting or prize-fighting!

The pillory was one of our time-honoured institutions fifty years ago, and men and women used
to be placed there for offences, such as a wise legislature would have endeavoured to conceal
from public consideration. The horrid scenes which then took place, when men, women, and children
collected in crowds to pelt the offenders with missiles, were so disgusting, that they cannot
be described. Not more seemly were the public whippings then administered to women in common
with the coarsest male offenders. The public abominations and obscenities of the "good old
times" would almost have disgraced the days of Nero.

But bull-baiting, cock-fighting, and other ferocious amusements, have now departed. Even the
village stocks have rotted out. Drunkenness has become disreputable. The "good old times" have
departed, we hope never to return. The labourer has now other resources beside the public-house.
There are exhibitions and people's parks, steamboats and railways, reading-rooms and coffee-rooms,
museums, gardens, and cheap concerts. In place of the disgusting old amusements, there has
come a healthier, sounder life, greater enlightenment, more general sobriety, and a humaner
spirit. We have in a hundred years outgrown many of our savage tendencies. We are not less
brave as a people, though less brutal. We are quite as manly, though much less gross. Manners
are more refined, yet as a people we have not lost our pluck, energy, and endurance. We respect
ourselves more, and as a nation we have become more respected. We now think with shame of the
manners of a hundred years ago.

The achievements of which England has most reason to be proud, have been accomplished during
the last hundred years. English slaves have been emancipated, both at home and abroad. Impressment
has been done away with. Parliamentary representation has been conferred upon all classes of
the people. The Corn Laws have been abolished. Free trade has been established. Our ports are
now open to the whole world.

And then, see what our inventors have accomplished! James Watt invented the steam-engine, which
in a few years created a large number of new industries, and gave employment to immense numbers
of people. Henry Cort invented the puddling-process, and enabled England to rely upon its own
stores of iron, instead of depending upon foreign and perhaps hostile countries. All the docks
and harbours round the English coast have been formed during the present century. The steamboat,
the railway, and the telegraph have only been invented and applied during the last fifty years.

With respect to the charge made against the English workman as to the "sluriness, swiftness,
and mendacity" of his work, it is simply impossible that this should be so. Our ports are free
and open to the world; and if Frenchmen, Germans, Belgians, or Americans could execute better
work than Englishmen, we should not only cease to export, but also lose our home trade. The
foreigner is now free to undersell us, if he can, in our own markets.

It was in the perfect confidence that Englishmen were the best and most honest workers in the
world, that free trade was established. Should we ever become a shoddy manufacturing people,
free trade will probably be abolished; and we shall then impose prohibitory duties upon foreign
manufactures. But is it not the fact that every year sees an increase in the exports of English
goods,--that English workmanship is not considered the worst, but the best, in the general
markets of the world,--and that numerous foreign makers place an English mark upon their productions
in order to ensure their sale?

It is by means of English workmen and English tools and machines that continental manufactories
themselves have been established; and yet, notwithstanding their cheaper labour, we should
command the foreign market, but for the prohibitory duties which foreigners impose upon English
manufactures. Mr. Brassey, in his book on Work and Wages, says, "It may be affirmed that as
practical mechanics the English are unsurpassed. The presence of the English engineer, the
solitary representative, among a crew of foreigners, of the mechanical genius of his country,
is a familiar recollection to all who have travelled much in the steamers of the Mediterranean.
Consul Lever says that in the vast establishment of the Austrian Lloyds at Trieste, a number
of English mechanical engineers are employed, not only in the workshops, but as navigating
engineers in the company's fleet. Although there is no difficulty in substituting for these
men Germans or Swiss, at lower rates of payment, the uniform accuracy of the English, their
intelligence, their consummate mastery of all the details of their art, and their resources
in every case of difficulty, have entirely established their superiority."[1]

[Footnote 1: Work and Wages, p. 114.]

The English are also the best miners, the best tool-makers, the best instrument-makers, the
best "navvies," the best ship-builders, the best spinners and weavers. Mr. Brassey says that
during the construction of the Paris and Rouen Railway, the Frenchman, Irishman, and Englishman
were employed side by side. In the same quarry at Bounierés, the Frenchman received three francs,
the Irishman four, and the Englishman six; and the last was found to be the most advantageous
workman of the three. The superiority of the English workman over persons of other nations
was equally remarkable whenever there was an opportunity of employing him side by side with them.

There is no doubt about the "swiftness" of English Workmanship. But this is one of the merits
of English mechanism. M. Jules Simon observes that heretofore the manual labourer has been
an intelligent force, but by means of machinery he is converted into an intelligent director
of force. It is by the speed of the English machinery, and the intelligent quickness of the
workmen, that his master makes a profit, and himself such high wages as compared with continental
workmen. In France, one person is employed to mind fourteen spindles; in Russia, one to twenty-eight;
in Prussia, one to thirty-seven; and in Great Britain, one to seventy-four spindles. It is
by means of the swiftness of our machinery that we are enabled to bring cotton from India,
manufacture it in Manchester, return the manufactured article to the place from which it was
taken, and sell it at a lower price than the native-made calico.

Mr. Chadwick mentions the following case. "A lady, the wife of an eminent cotton manufacturer,
went to him one day rejoicing, with a fine piece of muslin, as the produce of India, which
she had bought in London, and showing it to him, said, if he produced a fabric like that, he
would really be doing something meritorious in textile art. He examined it, and found that
it was the produce of his own looms, near Manchester, made for the Indian market exclusively,
bought there, and re-sold in England as rare Indian manufacture!"[1]

[Footnote 1: Address on Economy and Free Trade. By Edwin Chadwick, C.B., at the Association
for the Promotion of Social Science at York, 1861.]

An annual report is furnished to the Government, by our foreign consuls, with reference to
the character and condition of the working classes in most parts of the civilized world. Mr.
Walter, M.P., in a recent address to an assembly of workmen, referred to one of these reports.
He said, "There is one remark, in particular, that occurs with lamentable frequency throughout
the report,--that, with few exceptions, the foreign workman does not appear 'to take pride
in his work,' nor (to use a significant expression) to 'put his character into it.' A remarkable
instance of this is mentioned of a country which generally constitutes an honourable exception
to this unhappy rule. Switzerland is a country famous for its education and its watches; yet
the following passage from the report will show that neither knowledge nor skill will suffice
without the exercise of that higher quality on which I have been dwelling. 'As a rule,' it
says, 'Swiss workmen are competent in their several trades, and take an interest in their work;
for, thanks to their superior education, they fully appreciate the pecuniary advantages to
their masters, and indirectly to themselves, of adhering strictly to this course. A striking
instance of the impolicy of acting otherwise has lately happened at St. Imier, in the Bernese
Jura, and produced a deep impression. In this district, for some years past, a great falling
off in the quality of the watches manufactured has taken place, owing to the inhabitants finding
it much more profitable to increase the production at the cost of the workmanship than to abide
by the old rules of the trade. They prospered beyond all expectation for a considerable time,
but finally their watches got such a bad name that they became unsaleable, and the result is
a general bankruptcy of nearly all the watchmakers of this particular district."

One thing, however, remains to be said of foreign workmen generally. Although they do not work
so hard as the English, they take much better care of their earnings. They are exceedingly
frugal and economical. Frenchmen are much soberer than Englishmen, and much better mannered.
They are, on the whole, greatly more provident than English workmen. Mr. Brassey states that
when the Paris and Rouen Railway works were commenced, the contractors endeavoured to introduce
a system by which the workmen were to be paid once a fortnight; but very soon after the operations
had begun, the Frenchmen requested that the pay might take place only once a month.

Mr. Reid, managing director of the line, told the House of Commons Committee on Railway Labourers,
that a French labourer is a much more independent person than an Englishman, and much more
respectable. He stated, in support of his opinion, this remarkable circumstance, that whereas
a French labourer desired to be paid only once a month, the English labourer desired to be
paid every Saturday night,--and by the following Wednesday he wanted something on account of
the week's work. "Nothing could be a greater test," said Mr. Reid, "of the respectability of
a working man than being able to go without his pay for a month."[1]

[Footnote 1: Thomas Brassey, M.P., On Work and Wages.]

Although the French workman has nothing like the same facilities for saving as the English,
the Journal des Débats alleges that he saves ten times as much as his rival. There are only
about a thousand savings banks and branches established in France, and yet two millions of
persons belonging to the lower ranks last year had invested in them about twenty-eight millions
sterling. But the Frenchman of the city prefers investing in Government Rentes; and the Frenchman
of the country prefers investing in land. All, however, are thrifty, saving, and frugal; because
they are educated in economy from their earliest years.

CHAPTER XII

LIVING BEYOND THE MEANS.

"By no means run in debt: take thine own measure. Who cannot live on twenty pounds a year,
Cannot on forty: he's a man of pleasure, A kind of thing that's for itself too dear."--George
Herbert.

"But what will Mrs. Grundy say?"--Old Play.

"YES and No are, for good or evil, the Giants of Life."--Jerrold.

"A hundred years of vexation will not pay a farthing of debt."--From the French.

"Respectability is all very well for folks who can have it for ready money: but to be obliged
to run into debt for it--it's enough to break the heart of an angel."--Jerrold.

Extravagance is the pervading sin of modern society. It is not confined to the rich and moneyed
classes, but extends also to the middle and working classes.

There never was such a burning desire to be rich, or to seem to be rich. People are no longer
satisfied with the earnings of honest industry; but they must aim at becoming suddenly rich,--by
speculation, gambling, betting, swindling, or cheating.

General extravagance is to be seen everywhere. It is especially the characteristic of town
life. You see it in the streets, in the parks, in the churches. The extravagance of dress is
only one of its signs. There is a general prodigality in social display. People live in a style
beyond their means; and the results are observed in commercial failures, in lists of bankrupts,
and in criminal courts, where business men are so often convicted of dishonesty and fraud.

Appearances must be kept up. Men must seem to be rich. Hypocrites can easily impose upon those
who are willing to be convinced. People must now live in a certain style, inhabit handsome
houses, give good dinners, drink fine wines, and have a handsome equipage. Perhaps they are
only able to accomplish this by overreaching or by dishonesty. Everybody wondered at the generosity
and style of Redpath and Robson; but there are hundreds, if not thousands, of Redpaths and
Robsons now.

There is another class of people, not fraudulent, but extravagant; though perhaps on the brink
of becoming fraudulent. They live up to their means, and often beyond them. They desire to
be considered "respectable people." They live according to the pernicious adage, "One must
do as others do." They do not consider whether they can afford to live up to or beyond their
means; but they think it necessary to secure the "respect" of others. In doing so, they usually
sacrifice their own self-respect. They regard their dress, their establishments, their manner
of living, and their observance of fashion, as the sole tests of respectability and rank. They
make an appearance in the eyes of the world; though it may be entirely hypocritical and false.

But they must not seem poor! They must hide their poverty by every effort. They spend their
money before it is earned,--run into debt at the grocer's, the baker's, the milliner's, and
the butcher's. They must entertain their fashionable "friends," at the expense of the shopkeepers.
And yet, when misfortunes overtake them, and when their debts have become overwhelming, what
becomes of the "friends"? They fly away, and shun the man who is up to his ears in debt!

Yet poverty is more than half disarmed by those who have the moral courage to say. "I can't
afford it." Fair-weather friends are of no use whatever, except as an indication of the depth
of snobbery to which human beings can descend. What is "a visiting connection"? It is not at
all calculated to elevate one in social, or even in business life. Success mainly depends upon
character, and the general esteem in which a person is held. And if the attempt is made to
snatch the reward of success before it is earned, the half-formed footing may at once give
way, and the aspirant will fall, unlamented, into the open-mouthed dragon of debt.

"Mrs. Grundy," in the play, is but an impersonation of the conventionalism of the world. Custom,
habit, fashion, use and wont, are all represented in her. She may be a very vulgar and commonplace
person, but her power is nevertheless prodigious. We copy and imitate her in all things. We
are pinned to her apron-string. We are obedient at her bidding. We are indolent and complaisant,
and fear to provoke her ill-word. "What will Mrs. Grundy say?" quells many a noble impulse,
hinders many a self-denying act.

There seems to be a general, though unconscious conspiracy existing, against each other's individuality
and manhood. We discourage self-reliance, and demand conformity. Each must see with others'
eyes, and think through others' minds. We are idolaters of customs and observances, looking
behind, not forwards and upwards. Pinned down and held back by ignorance and weakness, we are
afraid of standing alone, or of thinking and acting for ourselves. Conventionalism rules all.
We fear stepping out into the free air of independent thought and action. We refuse to plant
ourselves upon our instincts, and to vindicate our spiritual freedom. We are content to bear
others' fruit, not our own.

In private affairs, the same spirit is alike deleterious. We live as society directs, each
according to the standard of our class. We have a superstitious reverence for custom. We dress,
and eat, and live, in conformity with the Grundy law. So long as we do this, we are "respectable,"
according to class notions. Thus many rush open-eyed upon misery, for no better excuse than
a foolish fear of "the world." They are afraid of "what others will say of them;" and, in nine
cases out of ten, those who might probably raise the voice of censure, are not the wise or
the far-seeing, but much oftener the foolish, the vain, and the short-sighted.

Sir William Temple has said, that "a restlessness in men's minds to be something that they
are not, and to have something that they have not, is the root of all immorality." The statement
is strictly correct. It has been attested by universal experience.

Keeping up appearances is one of the greatest social evils of the age. There is a general effort,
more particularly amongst the middle and upper classes, at seeming to be something that they
are not. They put on appearances, live a life of sham, and endeavour to look something superior
to what they really are.

"Respectability" is one of the chief aims. Respectability, regarded in its true sense, is a
desirable thing. To be respected, on right grounds, is an object which every man and woman
is justified in obtaining. But modern respectability consists of external appearances. It means
wearing fine clothes, dwelling in fine houses, and living in fine style. It looks to the outside,--to
sound, show, externals. It listens to the chink of gold in the pocket. Moral worth or goodness
forms no part of modern respectability. A man in these days may be perfectly "respectable,"
and yet altogether despicable.

This false and demoralizing habit arises from the overweening estimate which is formed of two
things, well enough in their place,--rank and wealth. Everybody struggles to rise into some
superior class. The spirit of caste is found as keenly at work among the humblest as among
the highest ranks. At Birmingham, there was a club of workmen with tails to their coats, and
another without tails: the one looked down upon the other. Cobbett, so felicitous in his nicknames,
called his political opponent, Mr. Sadler, "a linendraper." But the linendraper also has plenty
of people beneath him. The linendraper looks down on the huckster, the huckster on the mechanic,
and the mechanic on the day labourer. The flunkey who exhibits his calves behind a baron, holds
his head considerably higher than the flunkey who serves a brewer.

It matters not at what class you begin, or however low in the social scale, you will find that
every man has somebody beneath him. Among the middling ranks, this sort of exclusiveness is
very marked. Each circle would think it a degradation to mix on familiar terms with the members
of the circle beneath it. In small towns and villages, you will find distinct coteries holding
aloof from each other, perhaps despising each other, and very often pelting each other with
hard words. The cathedral towns, generally, have at least six of such distinct classes, ranking
one beneath the other.

And while each has his or her own exclusive circle, which all of supposed inferior rank are
precluded from entering, they are at the same time struggling to pass over the line of social
demarcation which has been drawn by those above them. They are eager to overleap it, and thus
gain admission into a circle still more exclusive than their own.

There is also a desperate scramble for front places, and many are the mean shifts employed
to gain them. We must possess the homage of society! And for this purpose we must be rich,
or at least seem to be so. Hence the struggles after style--the efforts made to put on the
appearances of wealth--the dash, the glitter, and the show of middle and upper class life;--and
hence, too, the motley train of palled and vitiated tastes--of shrunken hearts and stunted
intellects--of folly, frivolity, and madness.

One of the most demoralizing practices of modern refinement is the "large party" system. People
cram their houses with respectable mobs; thus conforming to a ridiculous custom. Rousseau,
with all his aberrations of mind, said, "I had rather have my house too small for a day, than
too large for a twelvemonth." Fashion exactly reverses the maxim; and domestic mischief is
often begun with a large dwelling and suitable accommodations. The misfortune consists in this,--that
we never look below our level for an example, but always above it.

It is not so much, however, in the mere appearances kept up, as in the means taken to keep
them up, that the fruitful cause of immorality is to be found. A man having assumed a class
status, runs all risks to keep it up. It is thought to be a descent in the world, to abridge
oneself of a superfluity. The seeming-rich man, who drives his close carriage and drinks champagne,
will not tolerate a descent to a gig and plain beer; and the respectable man, who keeps his
gig, would think it a degradation to have to travel afoot or in a 'bus, between his country
house and his town office. They will descend to immorality rather than descend in apparent
rank; they will yield to dishonesty rather than yield up the mock applause and hollow respect
of that big fool, "the world."

Everybody can call to mind hundreds of cases of men--"respectable men"--who, from one extravagance
have gone on to another--wantonly squandering wealth which was not theirs--in order to keep
up a worldly reputation, and cut a figure before their admiring fellows;--all ending in a sudden
smash, a frightful downfall, an utter bankruptcy--to the ruin, perhaps, of thousands. They
have finished up with paying a respectable dividend of sixpence in the pound! Indeed it is
not too much to say, that five-sixths of the fraud and swindling that disgrace commercial transactions,
have had their origin in the diseased morality of "keeping up appearances."

To be "respectable," in the false sense of the word,--what is not sacrificed? Peace, honesty,
truth, virtue,--all to keep up appearances. We must cheat, and scrub, and deceive, and defraud,
that "the world" may not see behind our mask! We must torment and enslave ourselves, because
we must extort "the world's" applause, or at least obtain "the world's" good opinion!

How often is suicide traceable to this false sentiment! Vain men will give up their lives,
rather than their class notions of respectability. They will cut the thread of existence, rather
than cut fashionable life. Very few suicides are committed from real want. "We never hear,"
says Joel Barlow, "of a man committing suicide for want of a loaf of bread, but it is often
done for want of a coach."

Of this mean and miserable spirit of class and caste, women are the especial victims. They
are generally brought up with false notions of life, and are taught to estimate men and things
rather by their external appearances than by their intrinsic worth. Their education is conducted
mainly with the view of pleasing and attracting the admiration of others, rather than of improving
and developing their qualities of mind and heart. They are imbued with notions of exclusiveness,
fashion, and gentility. A respectable position in society is held up to them as the mark to
be aimed at. To be criminal or vicious is virtually represented to them as far less horrible
than to be "vulgar." Immured within the bastile of exclusivism, woman is held captive to all
the paltry shifts and expediencies of convention, fashion, gentility, and so forth. The genuine
benevolence of her nature is perverted; her heart becomes contracted; and the very highest
sources of happiness--those which consist in a kindly sympathy with humanity in all ranks of
life--are as a well shut up and a fountain sealed.

Is it not a fact, that in what is called "fashionable society," a fine outside appearance is
regarded almost in the light of a virtue?--that to be rich, or to have the appearance of riches,
is esteemed as a merit of a high order;--whereas, to be poor, or to seem so, ranks as something
like an unpardonable offence? Nay, such is the heartlessness of this class spirit, that a young
woman, belonging to the better class, who, by misfortune or family reverses, has been thrown
upon her own resources, and who endeavours, by her own honest hands, to earn her honest bread,
immediately loses caste, and is virtually expelled from "respectable" society. The resolution
to be independent--the most invigorating resolution which can take possession of the human
mind--is scouted in such circles as a degrading thing; and those who have been brought up within
the influence of fashion, will submit to the most severe privations, rather than submit to
the loss of their class and caste respectability!

Thus brought up, it is no wonder that woman has been the co-partner with man in upholding the
general extravagance of the age. There never was such a rage for dress and finery amongst English
women as there is now. It rivals the corrupt and debauched age of Louis XV. of France. A delirium
of fashion exists. Women are ranked by what they wear, not by what they are. Extravagance of
dress, and almost indecency of dress, has taken the place of simple womanly beauty. Wordsworth
once described the "perfect woman nobly planned." Where will you find the perfect woman now?
Not in the parti-coloured, over-dressed creature--the thing of shreds and patches--with false
hair, false colour, false eyebrows, false everything. "Some of nature's journeymen have made
them, and not made them well, they imitate humanity so abominably."

The evil does not stop with the moneyed classes. It descends to those who have nothing but
their salary to live upon. It descends to the wives of clerks and shopmen. They, too, dress
for respectability. They live beyond their means. They must live in gimcrack suburban villas,
and "give parties." They must see what is going on at the theatres. Every farthing is spent
so soon as earned,--sometimes before. The husband does not insure his life, and the wife runs
into debt. If the man died to-morrow, he would leave his wife and children paupers. The money
he ought to have saved during his life of toil, is spent on "respectability;" and if he leaves
a few pounds behind him, they are usually spent in giving the thriftless husband a respectable
funeral.

"Is that dress paid for?" asked a husband. "No." "Then you are allowing yourself to be clothed
at another man's expense!" No woman is justified in running into debt for a dress, without
her husband's knowledge and consent. If she do so, she is clothing herself at the expense of
the draper. This is one of the things that worry a man who is trying to keep his head above
water; and it is often sufficient to turn his heart against his wife and her extravagances.
It is in this way that incomes are muddled away, and that life is rendered the scene of bitterness
and discontent. This is especially the case when both husband and wife are alike spendthrifts.

By running into debt yourself, or by your allowing your wife to run into debt, you give another
person power over your liberty. You cannot venture to look your creditor in the face. A double
knock at the door frightens you: the postman may be delivering a lawyer's letter demanding
the amount you owe. You are unable to pay it, and make a sneaking excuse. You invent some pretence
for not paying. At length you are driven to downright lying. For "lying rides on debt's back."

What madness it is to run in debt for superfluities! We buy fine articles--finer than we can
pay for. We are offered six months'--twelve months' credit! It is the shopkeeper's temptation;
and we fall before it. We are too spiritless to live upon our own earnings; but must meanwhile
live upon others'. The Romans regarded their servants as their enemies. One might almost regard
modern shopkeepers in the same light. By giving credit, by pressing women to buy fine clothes,
they place the strongest temptation before them. They inveigle the wives of men who are disposed
to be honest into debt, and afterwards send in untruthful bills. They charge heavier prices,
and their customers pay them,--sometimes doubly pay them; for it is impossible to keep a proper
check upon long-due accounts.

Professor Newman's advice is worthy of being followed. "Heartily do I wish," he says, "that
shop debts were pronounced after a certain day irrecoverable at law. The effect would be that
no one would be able to ask credit at a shop except where he was well known, and for trifling
sums. All prices would sink to the scale of cash prices. The dishonourable system of fashionable
debtors, who always pay too late, if at all, and cast their deficiencies on other customers
in the form of increased charges, would be at once annihilated. Shopkeepers would be rid of
a great deal of care, which ruins the happiness of thousands."[1]

[Footnote 1: Lectures on Political Economy, p. 255.]

A perfect knowledge of human nature is in the prayer, "Lead us not into temptation." No man
and no woman ever resists temptation after it has begun to be temptation. It is in the outworks
of the habits that the defence must lie. The woman who hesitates to incur a debt which she
ought not to incur, is lost. The clerk or apprentice who gloats over his master's gold, sooner
or later appropriates it. He does so when he has got over the habitual feeling which made any
approach to it an impossibility. Thus the habits which insinuate themselves into the thousand
inconsiderable acts of life, constitute a very large part of man's moral conduct.

This running into debt is a great cause of dishonesty. It does not matter what the debt is,
whether it be for bets unsettled, for losses by cards, for milliners' or drapers' bills unpaid.
Men who have been well educated, well trained, and put in the way of earning money honestly,
are often run away with by extravagances, by keeping up appearances, by betting, by speculation
and gambling, and by the society of the dissolute of both sexes.

The writer of this book has had considerable experience of the manner in which young men have
been led from the way of well-doing into that of vice and criminality. On one occasion his
name was forged by a clerk, to enable him to obtain a sum of money to pay the debts incurred
by him at a public-house. The criminal was originally a young man of good education, of reasonable
ability, well-connected, and married to a respectable young lady. But all his relatives and
friends were forgotten--wife and child and all--in his love for drink and card-playing. He
was condemned, and sentenced to several years' imprisonment.

In another case the defaulter was the son of a dissenting minister. He stole some valuable
documents, which he converted into money. He escaped, and was tracked. He had given out that
he was going to Australia, by Southampton. The Peninsular and Oriental steamer was searched,
but no person answering to his description was discovered. Some time passed, when one of the
Bank of England notes which he had carried away with him, was returned to the Bank from Dublin.
A detective was put upon his track; he was found in the lowest company, brought back to London,
tried, and sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment.

In another case, the criminal occupied a high position in a railway company,--so high that
he was promoted from it to be Manager of the Royal Swedish Railway. He was one of the too numerous
persons who are engaged in keeping up appearances, irrespective of honesty, morality, or virtue.
He got deeply into debt, as most of such people do; and then he became dishonest. He became
the associate of professional thieves. He abstracted a key from the office of which he was
in charge, and handed it to a well-known thief. This was the key of the strong box in which
gold and silver were conveyed by railway from London to Paris. A cast of the key was taken
in wax, and it was copied in iron. It was by means of this key that "The Great Gold Robbery"
was effected. After some time the thieves were apprehended, and the person who had stolen the
key--the keeper-up of appearances, then Manager of the Royal Swedish Railway--was apprehended,
convicted, and sentenced by Baron Martin to Transportation for Life.

The Rev. John Davis, the late Chaplain of Newgate, published the following among other accounts
of the causes of crime among the convicted young men who came under his notice:--

"I knew a youth, the child of an officer in the navy, who had served his country with distinction,
but whose premature death rendered his widow thankful To receive an official appointment for
her delicate boy in a Government office. His income from the office was given faithfully to
his mother; and it was a pleasure and a pride to him to gladden her heart by the thought that
he was helping her. She had other children--two little girls, just rising from the cradle to
womanhood. Her scanty pension and his salary made every one happy. But over this youth came
a love of dress. He had not strength of mind to see how much more truly beautiful a pure mind
is, than a finely decorated exterior. He took pleasure in helping his mother and sisters, but
did not take greater pleasure in thinking that to do this kindness to them he must be contented
for a time to dress a little worse than his fellow-clerks; his clothes might appear a little
worn, but they were like the spot on the dress of a soldier arising from the discharge of duty;
they were no marks of undue carelessness; necessity had wrought them; and while they indicated
necessity, they marked also the path of honour, and without such spots duty must have been
neglected. But this youth did not think of such great thoughts as these. He felt ashamed at
his threadbare but clean coat. The smart, new-shining dress of other clerks mortified him....
He wanted to appear finer. In an evil hour he ordered a suit of clothes from a fashionable
tailor. His situation and connections procured him a short credit. But tradesmen must be paid,
and he was again and again importuned to defray his debt. To relieve himself of his creditor
he stole a letter containing a £10 note. His tailor was paid, but the injured party knew the
number of the note. It was traced to the tailor, by him to the thief, with the means and opportunity
of stealing it, and in a few days he was transported. His handsome dress was exchanged for
the dress of a convict. Better by far would it have been for him to have worn his poorer garb,
with the marks of honest labour upon it. He formed only another example of the intense folly
of love of dress, which, exists quite as much amongst foolish young men as amongst foolish
young women."

When Sir Charles Napier left India, he issued an order to the Army, in which he reproved the
officers for contracting debts without the prospect of paying them. The Commander-in-Chief
found that he was subject to constant complaints against officers for non-payment of debts;
and in some cases he found that the ruin of deserving and industrious tradesmen had been consequent
on that cause. This growing vice he severely reprimanded, as being derogatory to the character
of the gentleman, as a degrading thing, as entitling those who practised it to "group with
the infamous, with those who are cheats, and whose society is contamination."

The extravagance of these young "gentlemen" in India is, in too many respects, but a counterpart
of the extravagance of our young "gentlemen" at home. The revelations of extravagances at Oxford
and Cambridge point to the school in which they have learnt their manners. Many worthy parents
have been ruined by the sons whom they had sent thither to be made scholars of; but who have
learnt only to be "gentlemen" in the popular acceptation of the word. To be a "gentleman" nowadays,
is to be a gambler, a horse-racer, a card-player, a dancer, a hunter, a roué,--or all combined.
The "gentleman" lives fast, spends fast, drinks fast, dies fast. The old style of gentleman
has degenerated into a "gent" and a "fast" man. "Gentleman" has become disreputable; and when
it is now employed, it oftener signifies an idle spendthrift, than an accomplished, virtuous,
laborious man.

Young men are growing quite shameless about being in debt; and the immorality extends throughout
society. Tastes are becoming more extravagant and luxurious, without the corresponding increase
of means to enable them to be gratified. But they are gratified, nevertheless; and debts are
incurred, which afterwards weigh like a millstone round the neck. Extravagant habits, once
formed and fostered, are very difficult to give up. The existing recklessness of running into
debt without the prospect, often without even the intention, of paying the debt, saps the public
morals, and spreads misery throughout the middle and upper classes of society. The tone of
morality has sunk, and it will be long before it is fairly recovered again.

In the mean time, those who can, ought to set their faces against all expenditure where there
are not sufficient means to justify it. The safest plan is, to run up no bills, and never to
get into debt; and the next is, if one does get into debt, to get out of it again as quickly
as possible. A man in debt is not his own master: he is at the mercy of the tradesmen he employs.
He is the butt of lawyers, the byword of creditors, the scandal of neighbours; he is a slave
in his own house; his moral character becomes degraded and defiled; and even his own household
and family regard him with pity akin to contempt.

Montaigne said, "I always feel a pleasure in paying my debts, because I discharge my shoulders
of a wearisome load and of an image of slavery." Johnson might well call Economy the mother
of Liberty. No man can be free who is in debt. The inevitable effect of debt is not only to
injure personal independence, but, in the long run, to inflict moral degradation. The debtor
is exposed to constant humiliations. Men of honourable principles must be disgusted by borrowing
money from persons to whom they cannot pay it back;--disgusted with drinking wine, wearing
clothes, and keeping up appearances, with other people's money. The Earl of Dorset, like many
other young nobles, became involved in debt, and borrowed money upon his property. He was cured
of his prodigality by the impertinence of a city alderman, who haunted his antechamber for
the purpose of dunning him for his debt. From that day the Earl determined to economize, to
keep entirely out of everybody's debt,--and he kept his word.

Let every man have the fortitude to look his affairs in the face,--to keep an account of his
items of income and debts, no matter how long or black the list may be. He must know how he
stands from day to day, to be able to look the world fairly in the face. Let him also inform
his wife, if he has one, how he stands with the world. If his wife be a prudent woman, she
will help him to economize his expenditure, and enable him to live honourably and honestly.
No good wife will ever consent to wear clothes and give dinners that belong not to her, but
to her shopkeeper.

The knowledge of arithmetic is absolutely necessary to those who would live within their means.
Women are especially ignorant of arithmetic; they are scarcely taught the simplest elements,
for female teachers think the information useless. They prefer to teach languages, music, deportment,
the use of the globes. All these may be important, but the first four rules of arithmetic are
better than all. How can they compare their expenditure with their receipts, without the knowledge
of addition and subtraction? How can they know precisely what to spend in rent, or clothing,
or food, or for service, unless they know the value of figures? How can they check the accounts
of their tradesmen or their servants? This want of knowledge of arithmetic is the cause, not
only of great waste, but of great misery. Many a family of good position has fallen into destitution
merely because of their ignorance of this branch of knowledge.

Young people often rush into marriage without reflection. A young man meets a pretty face in
a ball-room, likes it, dances with it, flirts with it, and goes home to dream about it. At
length he falls in love with it, courts it, marries it, and then he takes the pretty face home,
and begins to know something more about it. All has as yet been "very jolly." The face has
hitherto been charming, graceful, artless, and beautiful. It has now to enter upon another
sphere of life. It has to be seen much closer; it has to be seen daily; and it has to begin
housekeeping.

Most newly married people require some time to settle quietly down together. Even those whose
married life has been the happiest, arrive at peace and repose through a period of little struggles
and bewilderments. The husband does not all at once find his place, nor the wife hers. One
of the very happiest women we know has told us, that the first year of her married life was
the most uncomfortable of all. She had so much to learn--was so fearful of doing wrong--and
had not yet found her proper position. But, feeling their way, kind and loving natures will
have no difficulty in at last settling down comfortably and peacefully together.

It was not so with the supposed young man and his pretty "face." Both entered upon their new
life without thinking; or perhaps with exaggerated expectations of its unalloyed happiness.
They could not make allowances for lovers subsiding into husband and wife; nor were they prepared
for the little ruffles and frettings of individual temper; and both felt disappointed. There
was a relaxation of the little attentions which are so novel and charming to lovers. Then the
pretty face, when neglected, found relief in tears.

There is nothing of which men tire sooner, especially when the tears are about trifles. Tears
do not in such cases cause sympathy, but breed repulsion. They occasion sourness, both on the
one side and the other. Tears are dangerous weapons to play with. Were women to try kindness
and cheerfulness instead, how infinitely happier would they be. Many are the lives that are
made miserable by an indulgence in fretting and carking, until the character is indelibly stamped,
and the rational enjoyment of life becomes next to a moral impossibility.

Mental qualities are certainly admirable gifts in domestic life. But though they may dazzle
and delight, they will not excite love and affection to anything like the same extent as a
warm and happy heart. They do not wear half so well, and do not please half so much. And yet
how little pains are taken to cultivate the beautiful quality of good temper and happy disposition!
And how often is life, which otherwise might have been blessed, embittered and soured by the
encouragement of peevish and fretful habits, so totally destructive of everything like social
and domestic comfort!

In the instance we have cited, the pretty face soon became forgotten. But as the young man
had merely bargained for the "face"--as it was that to which he had paid his attentions--that
which he had vowed to love, honour, and protect.--when it ceased to be pretty, he began to
find out that he had made a mistake. And if the home be not made attractive,--if the newly
married man finds that it is only an indifferent boarding-house,--he will gradually absent
himself from it. He will stay out in the evenings, and console himself with cigars, cards,
politics, the theatre, the drinking club; and the poor pretty face will then become more and
more disconsolate, hopeless, and miserable.

Perhaps children grow up; but neither husband nor wife know much about training them, or keeping
them healthy. They are regarded as toys when babies, dolls when boys and girls, drudges when
young men and women. There is scarcely a quiet, happy, hearty hour spent during the life of
such a luckless couple. Where there is no comfort at home, there is only a succession of petty
miseries to endure. Where there is no cheerfulness,--no disposition to accommodate, to oblige,
to sympathize with one another,--affection gradually subsides on both sides.

It is said, that "When poverty comes in at the door, loves flies out at the window." But it
is not from poor men's houses only that love flies. It flies quite as often from the homes
of the rich, where there is a want of loving and cheerful hearts. This little home might have
been snug enough; with no appearance of want about it; rooms well furnished; cleanliness pervading
it; the table well supplied; the fire burning bright; and yet without cheerfulness. There wanted
the happy faces, radiant with contentment and good humour. Physical comfort, after all, forms
but a small part of the blessings of a happy home. As in all other concerns of life, it is
the moral state which determines the weal or woe of the human condition.

Most young men think very little of what has to follow courtship and marriage. They think little
of the seriousness of the step. They forget that when the pledge has once been given, there
is no turning back, The knot cannot be untied. If a thoughtless mistake has been made, the
inevitable results will nevertheless follow. The maxim is current, that "marriage is a lottery."
It may be so if we abjure the teachings of prudence--if we refuse to examine, inquire, and
think--if we are content to choose a husband or a wife, with less reflection than we bestow
upon the hiring of a servant, whom we can discharge any day--if we merely regard attractions
of face, of form, or of purse, and give way to temporary impulse or to greedy avarice--then,
in such cases, marriage does resemble a lottery, in which you may draw a prize, though there
are a hundred chances to one that you will only draw a blank.

But we deny that marriage has any necessary resemblance to a lottery. When girls are taught
wisely how to love, and what qualities to esteem in a companion for life, instead of being
left to gather their stock of information on the subject from the fictitious and generally
false personations given to them in novels; and when young men accustom themselves to think
of the virtues, graces, and solid acquirements requisite in a wife, with whom they are to spend
their days, and on whose temper and good sense the whole happiness of their home is to depend,
then it will be found that there is very little of the "lottery " in marriage; and that, like
any concern of business or of life, the man or woman who judges and acts wisely, with proper
foresight and discrimination, will reap the almost certain consequences in a happy and prosperous
future. True, mistakes may be made, and will be made, as in all things human; but nothing like
the grievous mistake of those who stake their happiness in the venture of a lottery.

Another great point is, to be able to say No on proper occasions. When enticements allure,
or temptations assail, say No at once, resolutely and determinedly. "No; I can't" afford it."
Many have not the moral courage to adopt this course. They consider only their selfish gratification.
They are unable to practise self-denial. They yield, give way, and "enjoy themselves." The
end is often defalcation, fraud, and ruin. What is the verdict of society in such cases? "The
man has been living beyond his means." Of those who may have been entertained by him, not one
of them will thank him, not one of them will pity him, not one of them will help him.

Every one has heard of the man who couldn't say No. He was everybody's friend but his own.
His worst enemy was himself. He ran rapidly through his means, and then called upon his friends
for bonds, bails, and "promises to pay." After spending his last guinea, he died in the odour
of harmless stupidity and folly.

His course in life seemed to be directed by the maxim of doing for everybody what everybody
asked him to do. Whether it was that his heart beat responsive to every other heart, or that
he did not like to give offence, could never be ascertained; but certain it is, that he was
rarely asked to sign a requisition, to promise a vote, to lend money, or to endorse a bill,
that he did not comply. He couldn't say "No;" and there were many who knew him well, who said
he had not the moral courage to do so.

His father left him a snug little fortune, and he was at once beset by persons wanting a share
of it. Now was the time to say "No," if he could; but he couldn't. His habit of yielding had
been formed; he did not like to be bored; could not bear to refuse; could not stand importunity;
and almost invariably yielded to the demands made upon his purse. While his money lasted, he
had no end of friends. He was a universal referee--everybody's bondsman. "Just sign me this
little bit of paper," was a request often made to him by particular friends, "What is it?"
he would mildly ask; for, with all his simplicity, he prided himself upon his caution! Yet
he never refused. Three months after, a bill for a rather heavy amount would fall due, and
who should be called upon to make it good but everybody's friend--the man who couldn't say "No."

At last a maltster, for whom he was bondsman--a person with whom he had only a nodding acquaintance--suddenly
came to a stand in his business, ruined by heavy speculations in funds and shares; when the
man who couldn't say "No" was called upon to make good the heavy duties due to the Crown. It
was a heavy stroke, and made him a poor man. But he never grew wise. He was a post against
which every needy fellow came and rubbed himself; a tap, from which every thirsty soul could
drink; a flitch, at which every hungry dog had a pull; an ass, on which every needy rogue must
have his ride; a mill, that ground everybody's corn but his own; in short, a "good-hearted
fellow," who couldn't for the life of him say "No."

It is of great importance to a man's peace and well-being that he should be able to say "No"
at the right time. Many are ruined because they cannot or will not say it. Vice often gains
a footing within us, because we will not summon up the courage to say "No." We offer ourselves
too often as willing sacrifices to the fashion of the world, because we have not the honesty
to pronounce the little word. The duellist dares not say "No," for he would be "cut." The beauty
hesitates to say it, when a rich blockhead offers her his hand, because she has set her ambition
on an "establishment." The courtier will not say it, for he must smile and promise to all.

When pleasure tempts with its seductions, have the courage to say "No" at once. The little
monitor within will approve the decision; and virtue will become stronger by the act. When
dissipation invites, and offers its secret pleasures, boldly say "No." If you do not, if you
acquiesce and succumb, virtue will have gone from you, and your self-reliance will have received
a fatal shock. The first time may require an effort; but strength will grow with use. It is
the only way of meeting temptations to idleness, to self-indulgence, to folly, to bad custom,
to meet it at once with an indignant "No." There is, indeed, great virtue in a "No," when pronounced
at the right time.

A man may live beyond his means until he has nothing left. He may die in debt, and yet "society"
does not quit its hold of him until he is laid in his grave. He must be buried as "society"
is buried. He must have a fashionable funeral. He must, to the last, bear witness to the power
of Mrs. Grundy. It is to please her, that the funeral cloaks, hatbands, scarves, mourning coaches,
gilded hearses, and processions of mutes are hired. And yet, how worthless and extravagant
is the mummery of the undertaker's grief; and the feigned woe of the mutes, saulies, and plume
bearers, who are paid for their day's parade!

It is not so much among the wealthy upper classes that the mischiefs of this useless and expensive
mummery are felt, as amongst the middle and working classes. An expensive funeral is held to
be "respectable." Middle-class people, who are struggling for front places in society, make
an effort to rise into the region of mutes and nodding plumes; and, like their "betters," they
are victimised by the undertakers. These fix the fashion for the rest; "we must do as Others
do;" and most people submit to pay the tax. They array themselves, friends, and servants, in
mourning; and a respectable funeral is thus purchased.

The expenditure falls heavily upon a family, at a time when they are the least able to bear
it. The bread-winner has been taken away, and everything is left to the undertaker. How is
a wretched widow in the midst of her agony, or how are orphan children, deprived of the protecting
hand of a parent, to higgle with a tradesman about the cheapening of mourning suits, black
gloves, weepers, and the other miserable "trappings of woe"? It is at such a moment, when in
thousands of cases every pound and every shilling is of consequence to the survivors, that
the little ready money they can scrape together is lavished, without question, upon a vulgar
and extravagant piece of pageantry. Would not the means which have been thus foolishly expended
in paying an empty honour to the dead, be much better applied in being used for the comfort
and maintenance of the living?

The same evil propagates itself downwards in society. The working classes suffer equally with
the middle classes, in proportion to their means. The average cost of a tradesman's funeral
in England is about fifty pounds; of a mechanic, or labourer, it ranges from five pounds to
ten pounds. In Scotland funeral expenses are considerably lower. The desire to secure respectable
interment for departed relatives, is a strong and widely-diffused feeling among the labouring
population; and it does them honour. They will subscribe for this purpose, when they will for
no other. The largest of the working-men's clubs are burial clubs. Ten pounds are usually allowed
for the funeral of a husband, and five pounds for the funeral of a wife. As much as fifteen,
twenty, thirty, and even forty pounds, are occasionally expended on a mechanic's funeral, in
cases where the deceased has been a member of several clubs, on which occasions the undertakers
meet and "settle" between them their several shares in the performance of the funeral. It is
not unusual to insure a child's life in four or five of these burial clubs; and we have heard
of a case where one man had insured payments in no fewer than nineteen different burial clubs
in Manchester!

When the working-man, in whose family a death has occurred, does not happen to be a member
of a burial club, he is still governed by their example, and has to tax himself seriously to
comply with the usages of society, and give to his wife or child a respectable funeral. Where
it is the father of the family himself who has died, the case is still harder. Perhaps all
the savings of his life are spent in providing mourning for his wife and children at his death.
Such an expense, at such a time, is ruinous, and altogether unjustifiable.

Does putting on garments of a certain colour constitute true mourning? Is it not the heart
and the affections that mourn, rather than the outside raiment? Bingham, in speaking of the
primitive Christians, says that "they did not condemn the notion of going into a mourning habit
for the dead, nor yet much approve of it, but left it to all men's liberty as an indifferent
thing, rather commending those that either omitted it wholly, or in short laid it aside again,
as acting more according to the bravery and philosophy of a Christian."

John Wesley directed, in his will, that six poor men should have twenty shillings each for
carrying his body to the grave,--"For," said he, "I particularly desire that there may be no
hearse, no coach, no escutcheon, no pomp, except the tears of those that loved me, and are
following me to Abraham's bosom. I solemnly adjure my executors, in the name of God, punctually
to observe this."

It will be very difficult to alter the mourning customs of our time. We may anxiously desire
to do so, but the usual question will occur--"What will people say?" "What will the world say?"
We involuntarily shrink back, and play the coward like our neighbours. Still, common sense,
repeatedly expressed, will have its influence; and, in course of time, it cannot fail to modify
the fashions of society The last act of Queen Adelaide, by which she dispensed with the hired
mummery of undertakers' grief,--and the equally characteristic request of Sir Robert Peel on
his deathbed, that no ceremony, nor pomp, should attend his last obsequies,--cannot fail to
have their due effect upon the fashionable world; and through them, the middle classes, who
are so disposed to imitate them in all things, will in course of time benefit by their example.
There is also, we believe, a growing disposition on the part of the people at large to avoid
the unmeaning displays we refer to; and it only needs the repeated and decided expression of
public opinion, to secure a large measure of beneficial reform in this direction.

Societies have already been established in the United States, the members of which undertake
to disuse mourning themselves, and to discountenance the use of it by others. It is only, perhaps,
by association and the power of numbers that this reform is to be accomplished; for individuals
here and there could scarcely be expected to make way against the deeply-rooted prejudices
of the community at large.

CHAPTER XIII.

GREAT DEBTORS.

"Quand on doit et qu'on ne paye pas, c'est comme si on ne devait pas."--Araene Houssaye.

"Of what a hideous progeny is debt the father!

"The human species, according to the best theory I can form of it, is composed of two distinct
races, the men who borrow and the men who lend. To these two original diversities may be reduced
all those impertinent classifications of Gothic and Celtic tribes, white men, black men, red
men, and such-like."--Charles Lamb.

People do not know what troubles they are brewing for themselves when they run into debt. It
does not matter for what the debt is incurred. It hangs like a millstone round a man's neck
until he is relieved of it. It presses like a nightmare upon him. It hinders the well-being
of his family. It destroys the happiness of his household.

Even those who are in the regular receipt of large incomes, feel crippled, often for years,
by the incubus of debt. Weighed down by this, what can a man do to save--to economise with
a view to the future of his wife and children? A man in debt is disabled from insuring his
life, from insuring his house and goods, from putting money in the bank, from buying a house
or a freehold. All his surplus gains must go towards the payment of his debt.

Even men of enormous property, great lords with vast landed estates, often feel themselves
oppressed and made miserable by loads of debt. They or their forefathers having contracted
extravagant habits--a taste for gambling, horseracing, or expensive living,--borrow money on
their estates, and the burden of debt remains. Not, perhaps, in the case of strictly entailed
estates--for the aristocracy have contrived so that their debts shall be wiped out at their
death, and they can thus gratify their spendthrift tastes at the expense of the public--the
estates going comparatively unburdened to the entailed heir. But comparatively few are in the
position of the privileged classes. In the case of the majority, the debts are inherited with
the estates, and often the debts are more than the estates are worth. Thus it happens that
a large part of the lands of England are at this moment the property of mortgagees and money-lenders.

The greatest men have been in debt. It has even been alleged that greatness and debt have a
certain relation to each other. Great men have great debts; they are trusted. So have great
nations; they are respectable, and have credit. Spiritless men have no debts, neither have
spiritless nations; nobody will trust them. Men as well as nations in debt secure a widely
extended interest. Their names are written in many books; and many are the conjectures formed
as to whether they will pay--or not. The man who has no debts slips through the world comparatively
unnoticed; while he who is in everybody's books has all eyes fixed upon him. His health is
enquired after with interest; and if he goes into foreign countries, his return is anxiously
looked for.

The creditor is usually depicted as a severe man, with a hard visage; while the debtor is an
open-handed generous man, ready to help and entertain everybody. He is the object of general
sympathy. When Goldsmith was dunned for his milk-score and arrested for the rent of his apartments,
who would think of pitying the milk-woman or the landlady? It is the man in debt who is the
prominent feature of the piece, and all our sympathy is reserved for him. "What were you,"
asked Pantagruel of Panurge, "without your debts? God preserve me from ever being without them!
Do you think there is anything divine in lending or in crediting others? No! To owe is the
true heroic virtue!"

Yet, whatever may be said in praise of Debt, it has unquestionably a very seedy side. The man
in debt is driven to resort to many sorry expedients to live. He is the victim of duns and
sheriff's officers. Few can treat them with the indifference that Sheridan did, who put them
into livery to wait upon his guests. The debtor starts and grows pale at every knock at his
door. His friends grow cool, and his relatives shun him. He is ashamed to go abroad, and has
no comfort at home. He becomes crabbed, morose, and querulous, losing all pleasure in life.
He wants the passport to enjoyment and respect--money; he has only his debts, and these make
him suspected, despised, and snubbed. He lives in the slough of despond. He feels degraded
in others' eyes as well as in his own. He must submit to impertinent demands, which he can
only put off by sham excuses. He has ceased to be his own master, and has lost the independent
bearing of a man. He seeks to excite pity, and pleads for time. A sharp attorney pounces on
him, and suddenly he feels himself in the vulture's gripe. He tries a friend or a relative,
but all that he obtains is a civil leer, and a cool repulse. He tries a money-lender; and,
if he succeeds, he is only out of the frying-pan into the fire. It is easy to see what the
end will be,--a life of mean shifts and expedients, perhaps ending in the gaol or the workhouse.

Can a man keep out of debt? Is there a possibility of avoiding the moral degradation which
accompanies it? Could not debt be dispensed with altogether, and man's independence preserved
secure? There is only one way of doing this; by "living within the means." Unhappily, this
is too little the practice in modern times. We incur debt, trusting to the future for the opportunity
of defraying it. We cannot resist the temptation to spend money. One will have fine furniture
and live in a high-rented house; another will have wines and a box at the opera; a third must
give dinners and music-parties:--all good things in their way, but not to be indulged in if
they cannot be paid for. Is it not a shabby thing to pretend to give dinners, if the real parties
who provide them are the butcher, the poulterer, and the wine-merchant, whom you are in debt
to, and cannot pay?

A man has no business to live in a style which his income cannot support, or to mortgage his
earnings of next week or of next year, in order to live luxuriously to-day. The whole system
of Debt, by means of which we forestall and anticipate the future, is wrong. They are almost
as much to blame who give credit, and encourage customers to take credit, as those are who
incur debts. A man knows what his actual position is, if he pays his way as he goes. He can
keep within his means, and so apportion his expenditure as to reserve a fund of savings against
a time of need. He is always balanced up; and if he buys nothing but what he pays for in cash,
he cannot fail to be on the credit side of his household accounts at the year's end.

But once let him commence the practice of running up bills--one at the tailor's, another at
the dressmaker's and milliner's, another at the butcher's, another at the grocer's, and so
on,--and he never knows how he stands. He is deceived into debt; the road is made smooth and
pleasant for him; things flow into the house, for which he does not seem to pay. But they are
all set down against him; and at the year's end, when the bills come in, he is ready to lift
up his hands in dismay. Then he finds that the sweet of the honey will not repay for the smart
of the sting.

It is the same as respects the poorer classes. Not many years since, Parliament passed a law
facilitating the establishment of Small Loan Societies, for the purpose of helping small tradesmen
and poor people generally to raise money on an emergency. The law was at once pounced upon
by the numerous race of Graballs, as a means of putting money in their purse. They gave the
working classes facilities for running into debt, and for mortgaging their future industry.
A few men, desirous of making money, would form themselves into a Loan Club, and offer sums
of money ostensibly at five per cent, interest, repayable in weekly instalments. The labouring
people eagerly availed themselves of the facility for getting into debt. One wanted money for
a "spree," another wanted money for a suit of clothes, a third for an eight-day clock, and
so on; and instead of saving the money beforehand, they preferred getting the money from the
Club, keeping themselves in difficulties and poverty until the debt was paid off. Such a practice
is worse than living from hand to mouth: it is living upon one's own vitals.

It is easy to understand how the partners in the Loan Club made money. Suppose that they advanced
ten pounds for three months at five per cent. It is repayable in weekly instalments at ten
shillings a week,--the repayments commencing the very first week after the advance has been
made. But though ten shillings are repaid weekly until the debt is wiped off, interest at five
per cent, is charged upon the whole amount until the last instalment is paid off. So that,
though the nominal interest is five per cent., it goes on increasing until, during the last
week, it reaches the enormous rate of one hundred per cent.! This is what is called "eating
the calf in the cow's belly."

Men of genius are equally facile in running into debt. Genius has no necessary connection with
prudence or self-restraint, nor does it exercise any influence over the common rules of arithmetic,
which are rigid and inflexible. Men of genius are often superior to what Bacon calls "the wisdom
of business." Yet Bacon himself did not follow his own advice, but was ruined by his improvidence.
He was in straits and difficulties when a youth, and in still greater straits and difficulties
when a man. His life was splendid; but his excessive expenditure involved him in debts which
created a perpetual craving for money. One day, in passing out to his antechambers, where his
followers waited for his appearance, he said, "Be seated, my masters; your rise has been my
fall." To supply his wants, Bacon took bribes, and was thereupon beset by his enemies, convicted,
degraded, and ruined.

Even men with a special genius for finance on a grand scale, may completely break down in the
management of their own private affairs. Pitt managed the national finances during a period
of unexampled difficulty, yet was himself always plunged in debt. Lord Carrington, the ex-banker,
once or twice, at Mr. Pitt's request, examined his household accounts, and found the quantity
of butcher's meat charged in the bills was one hundredweight a week. The charge for servants'
wages, board wages, living, and household bills, exceeded £2,300 a year. At Pitt's death, the
nation voted £40,000 to satisfy the demands of his creditors; yet his income had never been
less than £6,000 a year; and at one time, with the Wardenship of the Cinque Ports, it was nearly
£4,000 a year more.

But Pitt by no means stood alone. Lord Melville was as unthrifty in the management of his own
affairs, as he was of the money of the public. Fox was an enormous ower, his financial maxim
being that a man need never want money if he was willing to pay enough for it. Fox called the
outer room at Almack's, where he borrowed on occasions from Jew lenders at exorbitant premiums,
his "Jerusalem Chamber." Passion for play was his great vice, and at a very early age it involved
him in debt to an enormous amount. It is stated by Gibbon that on one occasion Fox sat playing
at hazard for twenty hours in succession, losing £11,000. But deep play was the vice of high
life in those days, and cheating was not unknown. Selwyn, alluding to Fox's losses at play,
called him Charles the Martyr.

Sheridan was the hero of debt. He lived on it. Though he received large sums of money in one
way or another, no one knew what became of it, for he paid nobody. It seemed to melt away in
his hands like snow in summer. He spent his first wife's fortune of £1,600 in a six weeks'
jaunt to Bath. Necessity drove him to literature, and perhaps to the stimulus of poverty we
owe "The Rivals," and the dramas which succeeded it. With his second wife he obtained a fortune
of £5,000, and with £15,000 which he realized by the sale of Drury Lane shares, he bought an
estate in Surrey, from which he was driven by debt and duns. The remainder of his life was
a series of shifts, sometimes brilliant, but oftener degrading, to raise money and evade creditors.
Taylor, of the Opera-house, used to say that if he took off his hat to Sheridan in the street,
it would cost him fifty pounds; but if he stopped to speak to him, it would cost a hundred.

One of Sheridan's creditors came for his money on horseback." That is a nice mare," said Sheridan.
"Do you think so?" "Yes, indeed;--how does she trot?" The creditor, flattered, told him he
should see, and immediately put the mare at full trotting pace, on which Sheridan took the
opportunity of trotting round the nearest corner. His duns would come in numbers each morning,
to catch him before he went out. They were shown into the rooms on each side of the entrance
hall. When Sheridan had breakfasted, he would come down, and ask, "Are those doors all shut,
John?" and on being assured that they were, he marched out deliberately between them.

He was in debt all round--to his milkman, his grocer, his baker, and his butcher. Sometimes
Mrs. Sheridan would be kept waiting for an hour or more while the servants were beating up
the neighbourhood for coffee, butter, eggs, and rolls. While Sheridan was Paymaster of the
Navy, a butcher one day brought a leg of mutton to the kitchen. The cook took it and clapped
it in the pot to boil, and went upstairs for the money; but not returning, the butcher coolly
removed the pot lid, took out the mutton, and walked away with it in his tray.[1] Yet, while
living in these straits, Sheridan, when invited with his son into the country, usually went
in two chaises and four--he in one, and his son Tom following in the other.

[Footnote 1: Haydon--Autobiography, vol. ii., p. 104.]

The end of all was very sad. For some weeks before his death he was nearly destitute of the
means of subsistence. His noble and royal friends had entirely deserted him. Executions for
debt were in his house, and he passed his last days in the custody of sheriffs' officers, who
abstained from conveying him to prison merely because they were assured that to remove him
would cause his immediate death.[2]

[Footnote 2: Memoirs of the Life of Sir S. Romilly, vol. iii., p. 262.]

The Cardinal de Retz sold off everything to pay his debts, but he did not recover his liberty.
He described the perpetual anguish of the debtor. He even preferred confinement in the Castle
of Vincennes, to being exposed to the annoyances of his creditors. Mirabeau's life was one
of perpetual debt; for he was a dreadful spendthrift. The only mode by which his father could
keep him out of scrapes, was by obtaining a lettre de cachet, and having him-safely imprisoned.
Though Mirabeau wielded the powers of the State, when he died he was so poor, or had been so
extravagant, that he was still indebted to the tailor for his wedding suit.

Lamartine ran through half-a-dozen fortunes, and at the end of his life was "sending round
the hat." Lamartine boldly proclaimed that he hated arithmetic, "that negative of every noble
thought." He was accordingly driven to very shabby shifts to live. The Cours de Litterature
alone brought him in 200,000 francs a year, yet 'the money ran through his hands like quicksilver.
His debts are said to have amounted to three millions of francs; yet his style of living remained
unchanged. One of his enthusiastic admirers, having stinted himself in subscribing towards
the repurchase of the Lamartine estates, went into a fishmonger's one day to purchase a piece
of turbot. It was too dear for his means. A distinguished-looking personage entered, paused
for a moment before the turbot, and without questioning the price, ordered the fish to be sent
to his house. It was M. de Lamartine.

Webster, the American statesman, was afflicted with impecuniosity, arising from his carelessness
about money matters, as well as from his extravagance. If we are to believe Theodore Parker,
Webster, like Bacon, took bribes. "He contracted debts and did not settle, borrowed and yielded
not again. Private money sometimes clove to his hands.... A senator of the United States, he
was pensioned by the manufacturers of Boston. His later speeches smell of bribes." Monroe and
Jefferson were always in want of money, and often in debt; though they were both honest men.

The life which public men lead nowadays, is often an incentive to excessive expenditure. They
may be men of moderate means; they may even be poor; but not many of them moving in general
society have the moral courage to seem to be so. To maintain their social position, they think
it necessary to live as others do. They are thus drawn into the vortex of debt, and into all
the troubles, annoyances, shabby shifts, and dishonesties, which debt involves.

Men of science are for the most part exempt from the necessity of shining in society; and hence
they furnish but a small number of instances of illustrious debtors. Many of them have been
poor, but they have usually lived within their means. Kepler's life was indeed a struggle with
poverty and debt; arising principally from the circumstance of his salary, as principal mathematician
to the Emperor of Germany, having been always in arrear. This drove him to casting nativities
in order to earn a living. "I pass my time," he once wrote, "in begging at the doors of crown
treasurers." At his death he left only twenty-two crowns, the dress he wore, two shirts, a
few books, and many manuscripts. Leibnitz left behind him a large amount of debt; but this
may have been caused by the fact that he was a politician as well as a philosopher, and had
frequent occasion to visit foreign courts, and to mix on equal terms with the society of the great.

Spinoza was poor in means; yet inasmuch as what he earned by polishing glasses for the opticians
was enough to supply his wants, he incurred no debts. He refused a professorship, and refused
a pension, preferring to live and die independent. Dalton had a philosophical disregard for
money. When his fellow-townsmen at Manchester once proposed to provide him with an independence,
that he might devote the rest of his life to scientific investigation, he declined the offer,
saying that "teaching was a kind of recreation to him, and that if richer he would probably
not spend more time in his investigations than he was accustomed to do." Faraday's was another
instance of moderate means and noble independence. Lagrange was accustomed to attribute his
fame and happiness to the poverty of his father, the astronomer royal of Turin. "Had I been
rich," he said, "probably I should not have become a mathematician."

The greatest debtor connected with science was John Hunter, who expended all his available
means--and they were wholly earned by himself--in accumulating the splendid collection now
known as the Hunterian Museum. All that he could collect in fees went to purchase new objects
for preparation and dissection, or upon carpenters' and bricklayers' work for the erection
of his gallery. Though his family were left in straitened circumstances at his death, the sale
of the collection to the nation for £15,000 enabled all his debts to be paid, and at the same
time left an enduring monument to his fame.

Great artists have nearly all struggled into celebrity through poverty, and some have never
entirely emerged from it. This, however, has been mainly because of their improvidence. Jan
Steen was always in distress, arising principally from the habit he had acquired of drinking
his own beer; for he was first a brewer, and afterwards a tavern-keeper. He drank and painted
alternately, sometimes transferring the drinking scenes of which he had been a witness to the
canvas, even while himself in a state of intoxication. He died in debt, after which his pictures
rose in value, until now they are worth their weight in gold.

Notwithstanding the large income of Vandyck, his style of living was so splendid and costly
as to involve him in heavy debt. To repair his fortunes, he studied alchemy for a time, in
the hope of discovering the philosopher's stone. But towards the end of his life he was enabled
to retrieve his position, and to leave a comfortable competency to his widow. Rembrandt, on
the other hand, involved himself in debt through his love of art. He was an insatiable collector
of drawings, armour, and articles of vertu, and thus became involved in such difficulties that
he was declared a bankrupt. His property remained under legal control for thirteen years, until
his death.

The great Italian artists were for the most part temperate and moderate men, and lived within
their means. Haydon, in his Autobiography, says, "Rafaelle, Michael Angelo, Zeuxis, Apelles,
Rubens, Reynolds, Titian, were rich and happy. Why? Because with their genius they combined
practical prudence." Haydon himself was an instance of the contrary practice. His life was
a prolonged struggle with difficulty and debt. He was no sooner free from one obligation, than
he was involved in another. His "Mock Election" was painted in the King's Bench prison, while
he lay there for debt. There is a strange entry in his Journal: "I borrowed £10 to-day of my
butterman, Webb, an old pupil of mine, recommended to me by Sir George Beaumont twenty-four
years ago, but who wisely, after drawing hands, set up a butter shop, and was enabled to send
his old master £10 in his necessity." Haydon's Autobiography is full of his contests with lawyers
and sheriffs' officers. Creditors dogged and dunned him at every step. "Lazarus's head," he
writes, "was painted just after an arrest; Eucles was finished from a man in possession; the
beautiful face in Xenophon in the afternoon, after a morning spent in begging mercy of lawyers;
and Cassandra's head was finished in agony not to be described, and her hand completed after
a broker's man in possession, in an execution put in for taxes."[1]

[Footnote 1: Haydon--Autobiography, vol. ii., p. 400.]

Cowper used to say that he never knew a poet who was not thriftless; and he included himself.
Notwithstanding his quiet, retired life, he was constantly outrunning the constable. "By the
help of good management," he once wrote, "and a clear notion of economical matters, I contrived
in three months to spend the income of a twelvemonth." But though the number of thriftless
poets may be great, it must not be forgotten that Shakespeare, who stands at the head of the
list, was a prudent man. He economized his means, and left his family in comfort. His contemporaries
were, however, for the most part indebted men. Ben Jonson was often embarrassed, and always
poor, borrowing twenty shillings at a time from Henslowe; though he rarely denied himself another
jolly night at the "Mermaid." Massinger was often so reduced in circumstances as not to be
able to pay his score at the same tavern.

Greene, Peele, and Marlowe lived lives of dissipation, and died in poverty. Marlowe was killed
in a drunken brawl. When Greene was on his deathbed, dying of the disease which his excesses
had caused, he was haunted by the debt of ten pounds which he owed to the shoemaker who had
lodged him. He then warned his friend Peele to amend his ways; but Peele, like him, died in
distress and debt, one of the last letters he wrote being an imploring letter to Burleigh asking
for relief,--"Long sickness," said he, "having so enfeebled me as maketh bashfulness almost
impudency." Spenser died forsaken, and in want. Ben Jonson says of him that "he died for lack
of bread in King Street, and refused twenty broad pieces sent to him by my lord of Essex,"
adding, "he was sorrie he had no time to spend them."

Of later poets and literary men, Milton died in obscurity, though not in debt. Lovelace died
in a cellar. Butler, the author of "Hudibras," died of starvation in Rose Alley, the same place
in which Dryden was beaten by hired ruffians. Otway was hunted by bailiffs to his last hiding-place
on Tower Hill. His last act was to beg a shilling of a gentleman, who gave him a guinea; and
buying a loaf to appease his hunger, he choked at the first mouthful. Wycherley lay seven years
in gaol for debt, but lived to die in his bed at nearly eighty. Fielding's extravagance and
dissipation in early life involved him in difficulties which he never entirely shook off, and
his death was embittered by the poverty in which he left his widow and child in a foreign land.

Savage had a pension of fifty pounds a year, which he usually spent in a few days. It was then
fashionable to wear scarlet cloaks trimmed with gold lace; and Johnson one day met him, just
after he had got his pension, with one of these cloaks upon his back, while, at the same time,
his naked toes were sticking through his shoes. After living a life of recklessness and dissipation,
he died in prison, where he had lain six months for debt.

Sterne died poor, if he did not die insolvent. At his death, a subscription was got up for
the support of his wife and daughter. Churchill was imprisoned for debt, occasioned by his
dissoluteness and extravagance,--Cowper characterizing him as "spendthrift alike of money and
of wit." Chatterton, reduced to a state of starvation and despair, poisoned himself in his
eighteenth year. Sir Richard Steele was rarely out of debt. In many respects he resembled Sheridan
in temperament and character. He was full of speculation, and was always on the point of some
grand stroke of luck, which was to make his fortune. He was perpetually haunted by duns and
bailiffs; yet he did not stint himself of luxuries so long as he obtained credit. When appointed
to the office of Commissioner of Stamps, with a moderate income, he set up a carriage with
two and sometimes four horses; and he maintained two houses, one in London, the other at Hampton.
His means being altogether inadequate to this style of living, he soon became drowned in greater
debt than before. He was repeatedly impounded by lawyers, and locked up in sponging-houses.
Executions were put into his houses; his furniture was sold off; his wife wanted the commonest
necessaries of life; and still the pleasure-loving Steele maintained his equanimity and good
temper. Something great was always on the point of turning up in his favour. One of his grandest
schemes was that for bringing fish alive to the London market; "and then," said he to his wife,
"you will be better provided for than any lady in England." But the good turn never came to
Sir Richard; and he died out at elbows on his wife's little property in Wales.

Goldsmith was another of the happy-go-lucky debtors. He swam in debt. He was no sooner out
of it, than he was plunged into it again, deeper than before. The first money he earned as
a tutor--it was all the money he had--was spent in buying a horse. His relations raised £50,
and sent him to the Temple to study law, but he got no farther than Dublin, where he spent
or gambled away all the money. Then he went to Edinburgh to study medicine, and was forced
to fly from it, having become surety for a friend. He started on the tour of Europe without
any money in his pocket--with nothing but his flute; and he begged and played, until he came
back to England, as poor as he went. He himself used afterwards to say that there was hardly
a kingdom in Europe in which he was not a debtor.[1]

[Footnote 1: FORSTER--Life of Goldsmith, ed. 1863, p. 41.]

Even when Goldsmith began to earn money freely, he was still in debt. He gave away with one
hand what he earned with the other. He was dunned for his milk-score, arrested for rent, threatened
by lawyers, but never learnt the wisdom of economy. In the same month in which the second edition
of his "Vicar of Wakefield" was published, his bill of fifteen guineas, drawn on Newbery, was
returned dishonoured. When he was figuring at Boswell's dinner in Old Bond Street in the "ratteen
suit lined with satin, and bloom-coloured silk breeches," the clothes belonged to his tailor,
and remained unpaid till his death.

Prosperity increased his difficulties rather than diminished them; the more money he had, the
more thoughtless and lavish was his expenditure. He could refuse no indulgence, either to himself
or others. He would borrow a guinea and give it to a beggar. He would give the clothes off
his back, and the blankets off his bed. He could refuse nobody. To meet his thoughtless expenditure,
he raised money by promising to write books which he never began. He was perpetually discounting
to-morrow, and mortgaging an estate already overburthened. Thus he died, as he had begun, poor,
embarrassed, and in debt. At his death he owed over two thousand pounds: "Was ever poet," says
Johnson, "so trusted before?"

The case of Goldsmith and others has been cited as instances of the harsh treatment of genius
by the world, and in proof of the social disabilities of literary men and artists. It has been
held that society should be more indulgent to its men of genius, and that Government should
do something more for them than it now does. But nothing that society or Government could do
for men of genius would be likely to prove of any service to them, unless they will do what
other and less gifted men do,--exhibit self-respect and practise ordinary economy. We may pity
poor Goldsmith, but we cannot fail to see that he was throughout his own enemy. His gains were
large, amounting to about £8,000 in fourteen years; representing a much larger sum of money
at the present day. For his "History of the Earth and Animated Nature" he received £850,--and
the book was, at best, but a clever compilation. Johnson said of him that "if he can tell a
horse from a cow, that is the extent of his knowledge of zoology." The representation of his
"Good-natured Man" produced him £500. And so on with his other works. He was as successful
as Johnson was; but then he had not Johnson's sobriety, self-restraint, and self-respect.

Yet Goldsmith, in his thoughtful moments, knew the right path, though he had not the courage
to pursue it.

Byron had scarcely reached manhood when he became involved in debt. Writing to Mr. Becher,
in his twentieth year, he said, "Entre nous, I am cursedly dipped; my debts, everything inclusive,
will be nine or ten thousand before I am twenty-one." On his coming of age, the festivities
at Newstead were celebrated by means supplied by money-lenders at enormously usurious rates
of interest. His difficulties did not diminish, but only increased with time. It is said that
his mother's death was occasioned by a fit of rage, brought on by reading the upholsterer's
bills.[1] When the first canto of "Childe Harold" was published, Byron presented the copyright
to Mr. Dallas, declaring that he would never receive money for his writings,--a resolution
which he afterwards wisely abandoned. But his earnings by literature at that time could not
have lightened the heavy load of debt under which he staggered. Newstead was sold, and still
the load accumulated. Then he married, probably in the expectation that his wife's fortune
would release him; but her money was locked up, and the step, instead of relieving him, brought
only an accession of misery. Every one knows the sad result of the union; which was aggravated
by the increasing assaults of duns and sheriffs' officers.

[Footnote 1: MOORE--Life of Byron, ed. 1860. p. 127.]

Byron was almost driven to sell the copyright of his books, but he was prevented from doing
so by his publisher, who pressed upon him a sum of money to meet his temporary wants. During
the first year of his marriage, his house was nine times in the possession of bailiffs, his
door was almost daily beset by duns, and he was only saved from gaol by the privileges of his
rank. All this, to a sensitive nature such as his, must have been gall and bitterness; while
his wife's separation from him, which shortly followed, could not fail to push him almost to
the point of frenzy. Although he had declined to receive money for his first poems, Byron altered
his views, and even learnt to drive a pretty hard bargain with his publisher.[1] But Moore
does not, in his biography of the poet, inform us whether he ever got rid, except by death,
of his grievous turmoil of debt.

[Footnote 1: "You offer 1,500 guineas for the new Canto [the fourth of 'Childe Harold']: I
won't take it. Some feel it to be no burden at all; others bear it very lightly; whilst others
look upon creditors in the light of persecutors, and themselves in the light of martyrs. But
where the moral sense is a little more keen,--where men use the goods of others, without rendering
the due equivalent of money--where they wear unpaid clothes, eat unpaid meat, drink unpaid
wines, and entertain guests at the expense of the butcher, grocer, wine-merchant, and greengrocer,--they
must necessarily feel that their conduct is of the essence, not only of shabbiness, but of
dishonesty, and the burden must then bear very heavily indeed.

Of light-hearted debtors, the proportion is considerable. Thus Theophilus Cibber, when drowned
in debt, begged the loan of a guinea, and spent it on a dish of ortolans. Steele and Sheridan
both bore the load lightly. When entertaining company, they put the bailiffs who were in possession
in livery, and made them wait at table, passing them off as servants. Nothing disturbed Steele's
equanimity; and when driven from London by debt, he carried his generosity into the country,
giving prizes to the lads and lasses assembled at rural games and country dances. Sheridan
also made very light of his debts, and had many a good joke over them. Some one asked him how
it was that the O' was not prefixed to his name, when he replied that he was sure no family
had a better right to it, "for in truth, we owe everybody." And when a creditor once apologized
for the soiled and tattered state of a bill, which had been much worn by being so often presented,
Sheridan advised him "as a friend, to take it home and write it upon parchment."

Very different was it in the case of poor Burns, who was almost driven distracted because he
owed a debt of £7 4s. for a volunteer's uniform, which he could not pay. He sent to his friend
Thomson, the publisher of his songs, imploring the loan of £5, promising full value in "song-genius."[1]
His last poem was a "love song," in part payment of the loan, which he composed only a few
days before his death. 12th July, 1796. Burns died on the 21st of the same month.]

Sydney Smith had a severe struggle with poverty in the early part of his life. He had a poor
living, a wide parish, and a large family. His daughter says that his debts occasioned him
many sleepless nights, and that she has seen him in an evening, when bill after bill has poured
in (carefully examining them, and gradually paying them off), quite overcome by the feeling
of the debt hanging over him, cover his face with his hands, and exclaim, "Ah! I see I shall
end my old age in a gaol."[1] But he bore up bravely under the burden, labouring onward with
a cheerful heart, eking out his slender means by writing articles for the Edinburgh, until
at length promotion reached him, and he reaped the reward of his perseverance, his industry,
and his independence.

[Footnote 1: LADY HOLLAND--Memoir of the Rev. Sydney Smith, vol. i, p. 206.]

De Foe's life was a long battle with difficulty and debt. He was constantly involved in broils,
mostly of his own stirring up. He was a fierce pamphleteer from his youth up; and was never
for a moment at rest, He was by turns a soldier with the Duke of Monmouth, a pantile maker,
a projector, a poet, a political agent, a novelist, an essayist, a historian. He was familiar
with the pillory, and spent much of his time in gaol. When reproached by one of his adversaries
with mercenariness, he piteously declared how he had, "in the pursuit of peace, brought himself
into innumerable broils;" how he had been "sued for other men's debts, and stripped naked by
public opinion, of what should have enabled him to pay his own;" how, "with a numerous family,
and with no helps but his own industry, he had forced his way, with undiscouraged diligence,
through a sea of debt and misfortune," and "in gaols, in retreats, and in all manner of extremities,
supported himself without the assistance of friends and relations." Surely, there never was
such a life of struggle and of difficulty as that of the indefatigable De Foe. Yet all his
literary labours, and they were enormous, did not suffice to keep him clear of debt, for it
is believed that he died insolvent.[2]

[Footnote 2: George Chalmers--Life of De Foe, p. 92.]

Southey was, in his own line, almost as laborious a writer as De Foe; though his was the closet
life of the student, and not the aggressive life of the polemic. Though he knew debt, it never
became his master; and from an early period in his career, he determined not to contract a
debt that he was not able to discharge. He was not only enabled to do this, but to help his
friends liberally--maintaining for a time the families of his brothers-in-law, Coleridge and
Lovell--by simply not allowing himself any indulgences beyond his actual means, though these
were often very straitened. The burthen he carried would have borne down a man less brave and
resolute; but he worked, and studied, and wrote, and earned money enough for all his own wants,
as well as the wants of those who had become dependent upon him. He held on his noble way without
a murmur or complaint. He not only liberally helped his relatives, but his old schoolfellows,
in distress. He took Coleridge's wife and family to live with him, at a time when Coleridge
had abandoned himself to opium-drinking. To meet the numerous claims upon him, Southey merely
imposed upon himself so much extra labour. He was always ready with good advice to young men
who sought his help. Thus he encouraged Kirke White, Herbert Knowles, and Dusantoy, all of
whom died young and full of promise. He not only helped them with advice and encouragement,
but with money; and his timely assistance rescued the sister of Chatterton from absolute want.
And thus he worked on nobly and unselfishly to the last--finding happiness and joy in the pursuit
of letters--"not so learned as poor, not so poor as proud, not so proud as happy." These were
his own words.

The most touching story in Sir Walter Scott's life, is the manner in which he conducted himself
after the failure of the publishing house of Constable and Co., with which he had become deeply
involved. He had built Abbotsford, become a laird, was sheriff of his county, and thought himself
a rich man; when suddenly the Constable firm broke down, and he found himself indebted to the
world more than a hundred thousand pounds. "It is very hard," he said, when the untoward news
reached him, "thus to lose all the labour of a lifetime, and to be made a poor man at last.
But if God grant me health and strength for a few years longer, I have no doubt that I shall
redeem it all." Everybody thought him a ruined man, and he almost felt himself to be so. But
his courage never gave way. When his creditors proposed to him a composition, his sense of
honour forbade his listening to them. "No, gentlemen," he replied; "Time and I against any
two." Though the debts had been contracted by others, he had made himself legally responsible
for them; and, strong in his principle of integrity, he determined, if he could, to pay them
off to the last farthing. And he set himself to do it: but it cost him his life.

He parted with his town house and furniture, delivered over his personal effects to be held
in trust for his creditors, and bound himself to discharge a certain amount of his liabilities
annually. This he did by undertaking new literary works, some of them of great magnitude, the
execution of which, though they enabled him to discharge a large portion of his debt, added
but little to his reputation. One of his first tasks was his "Life of Napoleon Buonaparte,"
in nine volumes, which he wrote, in the midst of pain, sorrow, and ruin, in about thirteen
months,--receiving for it about fourteen thousand pounds. Even though struck by paralysis,
he went on writing until in about four years he had discharged about two-thirds of the debt
for which he was responsible,--an achievement probably unparalleled in the history of letters.

The sacrifices and efforts which he made during the last few years of his life, even while
paralyzed and scarcely able to hold his pen, exhibit Scott in a truly heroic light. He bore
up with unconquerable spirit to the last. When his doctor expostulated with him against his
excessive brain-work, he replied, "If I were to be idle, I should go mad: in comparison to
this, death is no risk to shrink from." Shortly before his last fatal attack, when sitting
dozing in his chair on the grass in front of the house at Abbotsford, he suddenly roused himself,
threw off the plaids which covered him, and exclaimed, "This is sad idleness. Take me to my
own room, and fetch the keys of my desk." They wheeled him into his study, and put pens and
paper before him. But he could not grasp the pen; he could not write; and the tears rolled
down his cheeks. His spirit was not conquered, but his bodily powers were exhausted and shattered;
and when at length he died, he fell asleep--like a child.

Scott felt, what every sensitive nature must feel, that poverty is a much lighter burden to
bear than debt. There is nothing ignominious about poverty. It may even serve as a healthy
stimulus to great spirits. "Under gold mountains and thrones," said Jean Paul, "lie buried
many spiritual giants." Richter even held that poverty was to be welcomed, so that it came
not too late in life. And doubtless Scott's burden was all the heavier to bear, because it
came upon him in his declining years.

Shakespeare was originally a poor man: "It is a question," says Carlyle, "whether, had not
want, discomfort, and distress warrants been busy at Stratford-on-Avon, Shakespeare had not
lived killing calves or combing wool! "To Milton's and Dryden's narrow means we probably owe
the best part of their works.

Johnson was a very poor man, and a very brave one. He never knew what wealth was. His mind
was always greater than his fortune; and it is the mind that makes the man rich or poor, happy
or miserable. Johnson's gruff and bluff exterior covered a manly and noble nature. He had early
known poverty and debt, and wished himself clear of both. When at college, his feet appeared
through his shoes, but he was too poor to buy new ones. His head was full of learning, but
his pockets were empty. How he struggled through distress and difficulty during his first years
in London the reader can learn from his "Life." He bedded and boarded for fourpence-halfpenny
a day, and when too poor to pay for a bed, he wandered with Savage whole nights in the streets.[1]
He struggled on manfully, never whining at his lot, but trying to make the best of it. BOSWELL--Life
of Johnson.]

These early sorrows and struggles of Johnson left their scars upon his nature; but they also
enlarged and enriched his experience, as well as widened his range of human sympathy. Even
when in his greatest distress he had room in his heart for others whose necessities were greater
than his own; and he was never wanting in his help to those who needed it, or were poorer than
himself.

From his sad experience, no one could speak with greater authority on the subject of debt than
Johnson. "Do not accustom yourself," he wrote to Boswell, "to consider debt only an inconvenience;
you will find it a calamity. Let it be your first care not to be in any man's debt. Whatever
you have, spend less. Frugality is not only the basis of quiet, but of beneficence." "Sir,"
said he to the patient and receptive Boswell, "get as much peace of mind as you can, and keep
within your income, and you won't go far wrong."

Men who live by their wits, their talents, or their genius, have, somehow or other, acquired
the character of being improvident. Charles Nodier, writing about a distinguished genius, said
of him--"In the life of intelligence and art, he was an angel; in the common practical life
of every day, he was a child." The same might be said of many great writers and artists. The
greatest of them have been so devoted--heart and soul--to their special work, that they have
not cared to think how the efforts of their genius might be converted into pounds, shillings,
and pence. Had they placed the money consideration first, probably the world would not have
inherited the products of their genius. Milton would not have laboured for so many years at
his "Paradise Lost," merely for the sake of the five pounds for which he sold the first edition
to the publisher. Nor would Schiller have gone on toiling for twenty years up to the topmost
pinnacles of thought, merely for the sake of the bare means of living which he earned by his work.

At the same time, men of genius should not disregard the common rules of arithmetic. If they
spend more than they earn, they will run into debt. Nor will complaining of the harshness of
the world keep them out of it. They have to stand or fall on their merits as men, and if they
are not provident they will suffer the same consequences as others. Thackeray, in painting
the character of Captain Shandon, in his "Pendennis," gave considerable offence to the literary
profession; yet he only spoke the truth.

Literary men are not neglected because they are literary men. But they have no right to expect
that society will overlook their social offences because they are literary men. It is necessary
for the world's sake, as well as for their own sake, that literary men and artists should take
care to "provide against the evil day" like other people. "Imagination and art," says Madame
de Staël, "have need to look after their own comfort and happiness in this world." The world
ought to help them generously; all good men ought to help them; but what is better than all,
they ought to help themselves.

CHAPTER XIV.

RICHES AND CHARITY.

 "Who--who--who's here
 I, Robert of Doncaster.
 That I spent, that I had;
 That I gave, that I have;
 That I left, that I lost."
        Epitaph, A.D. 1579.

"II est bon d'être charitable,
 Mais envers qui? C'est là le point."--La Fontaine.

"There are many idlers to whom a penny begged is sweeter than a shilling earned."--Douglas Jerrold.

"He stole a pig, and in God's name gave the trotters to the poor."--From the Spanish.

Man must be thrifty in order to be generous. Thrift does not end with itself, but extends its
benefits to others. It founds hospitals, endows charities, establishes colleges, and extends
educational influences. Benevolence springs from the best qualities of the mind and heart.
Its divine spirit elevates the benefactors of the world--the Howards, Clarksons, and Naviers--to
the highest pedestals of moral genius and of national worship.

The same feeling pervades our common humanity. The poorest man, the daily worker, the obscurest
individual, shares the gift and the blessing of doing good--a blessing that imparts no less
delight to him who gives than to him who receives.

"Man is dear to man; the poorest poor Long for some moments, in a weary life, When they can
know and feel that they have been Themselves the fathers and the dealers-out Of some small
blessings; have been kind to such As needed kindness, for this single cause, That we have all
of us one human heart."

The duty of helping the helpless is one that speaks trumpet-tongued; but especially to those
who profess love to God and goodwill to men. It is a duty that belongs to men as individuals,
and as members of the social body. As individuals, because we are enjoined to help the widow
and the fatherless in their affliction; and as members of the social body, because society
claims of every man that he shall be a helper in the cause of progress and of social well-being.

It is not necessary that men should be rich, to be helpful to others. John Pounds was not a
rich man; yet by his influence Ragged Schools were established. He was temperate, and saved
enough from his earnings to buy food for his pupils. He attracted them by his kindness, sometimes
by a "hot potato;" he taught them, and sent them out into the world, fortified by his good
example, to work in it, and do their duty towards it. Nor was Robert Raikes, the founder of
Sunday and other schools, a rich man; neither was Thomas Wright, the prison philanthropist.
Nor were St. Vincent de Paul and Father Mathew--the promoters of education and temperance.
Nor were the great men of science--Newton, Watt, and Faraday; nor the great missionaries--Xavier,
Martyn, Carey, and Livingstone.

A fine instance of gentleness and generosity is recorded in Walton's memoir of Dr. Donne. When
the latter, long straitened in his means, had entered upon the Deanery of St. Paul's, and was
thereby provided with an income more than sufficient for all his wants, he felt that those
means had been entrusted to him, for good uses, and to employ for human help and to the glory
of the Giver thereof. At the foot of a private account, "to which God and His angels only were
witnesses with him," Dr. Donne computed first his revenue, then what was given to the poor
and other pious uses, and lastly, what rested for him and his; and having done that, he then
blessed each year's poor remainder with a thankful prayer.

Dr. Donne did most of his good in secret, letting not his right hand know what his left hand
did. He redeemed many poor from prison; helped many a poor scholar; and employed a trusty servant
or a discreet friend to distribute his bounty where it was most needed. A friend whom he had
known in days of affluence, having by a too liberal heart and carelessness become decayed in
his estate and reduced to poverty, Donne sent him a hundred pounds. But the decayed gentleman
returned it with thanks, saying that he wanted it not;--for, says Walton, in narrating the
event, "as there be some spirits so generous as to labour to conceal and endure a sad poverty,
rather than expose themselves to those blushes that attend the confession of it, so there be
others to whom nature and grace have afforded such sweet and compassionate souls as to pity
and prevent the distresses of mankind; which I have mentioned because of Dr. Donne's reply,
whose answer was, 'I know you want not what will sustain nature, for a little will do that;
but my desire is that you, who in the days of your plenty have cheered and raised the hearts
of so many of your dejected friends, would now receive this from me, and use it as a cordial
for the cheering of your own;'"--and upon these terms it was received.

The truth is, that we very much exaggerate the power of riches. Immense subscriptions are got
up for the purpose of reforming men from their sinful courses, and turning them from evil to
good. And yet subscriptions will not do it. It is character that can do the work; money never
can. Great changes in society can never be effected through riches. To turn men from intemperance,
improvidence, and irreligion, and to induce them to seek their happiness in the pursuit of
proper and noble objects, requires earnest purpose, honest self-devotion, and hard work. Money
may help in many respects; but money by itself can do nothing. The apostle Paul planted the
knowledge of the Christian religion over half the Roman empire; yet he supported himself by
tent-making, and not by collecting subscriptions. Men of anxious, earnest, honest hearts, are
far more wanted than rich men--willing to give money in charity.

Nothing is so much over-estimated as the power of money. All the people who are looking out
for front seats in "society," think it the one thing needful. They may be purse-liberal, but
they are also purse-proud. The hypocritical professions of some people, with a view to elicit
the good opinion of others, in the teeth of their daily life and practice, is nothing short
of disgusting.

Some people have an idolatrous worship of money. The Israelites had their golden Calf; the
Greeks had their golden Jupiter. Old Bounderby valued the man who was worth a "hundred thousand
pounds." Others do the same. The lowest human nature loves money, possessions, value. "What
is he worth?" "What is his income?" are the usual questions. If you say, "There is a thoroughly
good, benevolent, virtuous man!" nobody will notice him. But if you say, "There is a man worth
a million of money," he will be stared at till out of sight. A crowd of people used to collect
at Hyde Park Corner to see a rich man pass. "Here comes old Crockie!" and the crowd would separate
to allow him to pass, amidst whispers of admiration. It was old Crockford, who made a large
fortune by keeping a gambling-house.

"The very sound of millions," says Mrs. Gore,[1] "tickles the ear of an Englishman! He loves
it so much, indeed, that it all but reconciles him to the National Debt; and when applied to
private proprietorship, it secures deference for lowness of mind, birth, habits, and pursuits....
Ambition and money-love, if they tend to ennoble a country, reduce to insignificance the human
particles of which the nation is composed. In their pursuit of riches, the English are gradually
losing sight of higher characteristics; ... our pursuit of railway bubbles and every other
frantic speculation of the hour, affords sufficient evidence of the craving after capital superseding
every better aspiration, whether for this world or the next."

[Footnote 1: Introduction to "Men of Capital."]

The love of gold threatens to drive everything before it. The pursuit of money has become the
settled custom of the country. Many are so absorbed by it, that every other kind of well-being
is either lost sight of, or altogether undervalued. And then the lovers of money think to recover
their moral tone by bestowing charity! Mountains of gold weigh heavily upon the heart and soul.
The man who can withstand the weight of riches, and still be diligent, industrious, and strong
in mind and heart, must be made of strong stuff. For, people who are rich, are almost invariably
disposed to be idle, luxurious, and self-indulgent.

"If money," said the Rev. Mr. Griffiths, Rector of Merthyr, "did not make men forget men, one-half
of the evil that is in the world would never occur. If masters drew nearer to the men, and
men were permitted to draw nearer their masters, we should not be passing through this fiery
ordeal. Let them do something to win the men out of the public-houses; let them spare more
of their enormous gains to build places of amusement and recreation for the people; let them
provide better houses to live in, better conveniences for decency, better streets; and if all
these things are done we shall have neither lock-outs nor strikes. We hear with pomp and triumph
of the millions and millions that have been dug out of this old Welsh land of ours, but we
hear nothing--and we see, indeed, less--of the public buildings, the people's parks, the public
libraries and public institutions, and other civilizing agencies. Fifteen months ago, when
we were in the highest tide of prosperity, I said all this, and no notice was taken of it.
Why should any notice be taken of a preaching parson or a Christian minister of any kind, when
sovereigns fly about like snowflakes in winter, or may be gathered like blackberries in summer?"[1]

[Footnote 1: Sermon preached at Merthyr during the South Wales strike.]

Men go on toiling and moiling, eager to be richer; desperately struggling, as if against poverty,
at the same time that they are surrounded with abundance. They scrape and scrape, add shilling
to shilling, and sometimes do shabby things in order to make a little more profit; though they
may have accumulated far more than they can actually enjoy. And still they go on, worrying
themselves incessantly in the endeavour to grasp at an additional increase of superfluity.
Perhaps such men have not enjoyed the advantages of education in early life. They have no literary
pleasures to fall back upon; they have no taste for books; sometimes they can scarcely write
their own names. They have nothing to think of but money,--and of what will make money. They
have no faith, but in riches! They keep their children under restriction and bring them up
with a servile education.

At length, an accumulation of money comes into the children's hands. They have before been
restricted in their expenditure; now they become lavish. They have been educated in no better
tastes. They spend extravagantly. They will not be drudges in business as their father was.
They will be "gentlemen," and spend their money "like gentlemen." And very soon the money takes
wings and flies away. Many are the instances in which families have been raised to wealth in
the first generation, launched into ruinous expense in the second, and disappeared in the third,--being
again reduced to poverty. Hence the Lancashire proverb, "Twice clogs, once boots." The first
man wore clogs, and accumulated a "a power o' money;" his rich son spent it; and the third
generation took up the clogs again. A candidate for parliamentary honours, when speaking from
the hustings, was asked if he had plenty brass. "Plenty brass?" said he; "ay, I've lots o'
brass!--I stink o' brass!"

The same social transformations are known in Scotland. The proverb there is, "The grandsire
digs, the father bigs, the son thigs,"[1]--that is, the grandfather worked hard and made a
fortune, the father built a fine house, and the son, "an unthrifty son of Linne," when land
and goods were gone and spent, took to thieving. Merchants are sometimes princes to-day and
beggars to-morrow; and so long as the genius for speculation is exercised by a mercantile family,
the talent which gave them landed property may eventually deprive them of it.

[Footnote 1: Dublin University Magazine.]

To be happy in old age--at a time when men should leave for ever the toil, anxiety, and worry
of money-making--they must, during youth and middle life, have kept their minds healthily active.
They must familiarize themselves with knowledge, and take an interest in all that has been
done, and is doing, to make the world wiser and better from age to age. There is enough leisure
in most men's lives to enable them to interest themselves in biography and history. They may
also acquire considerable knowledge of science, or of some ennobling pursuit different from
that by which money is made. Mere amusement will not do. No man can grow happy upon amusement.
The mere man of pleasure is a miserable creature,--especially in old age. The mere drudge in
business is little better. Whereas the study of literature, philosophy, and science is full
of tranquil pleasure, down to the end of life. If the rich old man has no enjoyment apart from
money-making, his old age becomes miserable. He goes on grinding and grinding in the same rut,
perhaps growing richer and richer. What matters it? He cannot eat his gold. He cannot spend
it. His money, instead of being beneficial to him, becomes a curse. He is the slave of avarice,
the meanest of sins. He is spoken of as a despicable creature. He becomes base, even in his
own estimation.

What a miserable end was that of the rich man who, when dying, found no comfort save in plunging
his hands into a pile of new sovereigns, which had been brought to him from the bank. As the
world faded from him, he still clutched them; handled and fondled them one by one,--and then
he passed away,--his last effort being to finger his gold! Elwes the miser died shrieking,
"I will keep my money!--nobody shall deprive me of my property!" A ghastly and humiliating
spectacle!

Rich men are more punished for their excess of economy, than poor men are for their want of
it. They become miserly, think themselves daily growing poorer, and die the deaths of beggars.
We have known several instances. One of the richest merchants in London, after living for some
time in penury, went down into the country, to the parish where he was born, and applied to
the overseers for poor's relief. Though possessing millions, he was horror-struck by the fear
of becoming poor. Relief was granted him, and he positively died the death of a pauper. One
of the richest merchants in the North died in the receipt of poor's relief. Of course, all
that the parish authorities had doled out to these poor-rich men was duly repaid by their executors.

And what did these rich persons leave behind them? Only the reputation that they had died rich
men. But riches do not constitute any claim to distinction. It is only the vulgar who admire
riches as riches. Money is a drug in the market. Some of the most wealthy men living are mere
nobodies. Many of them are comparatively ignorant. They are of no moral or social account.
A short time since, a list was published of two hundred and twenty-four English millionaires.
Some were known as screws; some were "smart men" in regard to speculations; some were large
navvies, coal-miners, and manufacturers; some were almost unknown beyond their own local circle;
some were very poor creatures; very few were men of distinction. All that one could say of
them was, that they died rich men.

"All the rich and all the covetous men in the world," said Jeremy Taylor, "will perceive, and
all the world will perceive for them, that it is but an ill recompense for all their cares,
that by this time all that shall be left will be this, that the neighbours shall say, He died
a rich man: and yet his wealth will not profit him in the grave, but hugely swell the sad accounts
of his doomsday."

"One of the chief causes," says Mrs. Gore, "which render the pursuit of wealth a bitterer as
well as more pardonable struggle in England than on the Continent, is the unequal and capricious
distribution of family property.... Country gentlemen and professional men,--nay, men without
the pretension of being gentlemen,--are scarcely less smitten with the mania of creating 'an
eldest son' to the exclusion and degradation of their younger children; and by the individuals
thus defrauded by their nearest and dearest, is the idolatry of Mammon pursued without the
least regard to self-respect, or the rights of their fellow-creatures. Injured, they injure
in their turn. Their days are devoted to a campaign for the recovery of their birthright. Interested
marriages, shabby bargains, and political jobbery, may be traced to the vile system of things
which converts the elder son into a Dives, and makes a Lazarus of his brother."

But democrats have quite as great a love for riches as aristocrats; and many austere republicans
are eager to be millionaires. Forms of government do not influence the desire for wealth. The
elder Cato was a usurer. One of his means of making money was by buying young half-fed slaves
at a low price; then, by fattening them up, and training them to work, he sold them at an enhanced
price. Brutus, when in the Isle of Cyprus, lent his money at forty-eight per cent. interest,[1]
and no one thought the worse of him for his Usury. Washington, the hero of American freedom,
bequeathed his slaves to his wife. It did not occur to him to give them their liberty. Municipal
jobbery is not unknown in New York; and its influential citizens are said to be steeped to
the lips in political corruption. Mr. Mills says, that the people of the North-Eastern States
have apparently got rid of all social injustices and inequalities; that the proportion of population
to capital and land is such as to ensure abundance for every able-bodied man; that they enjoy
the six points of the Charter, and need never complain of poverty. Yet "all that these advantages
have done for them is, that the life of the whole of our sex is devoted to dollar-hunting;
and of the other, to breeding dollar-hunters. This," Mr. Mill adds, "is not a kind of social
perfection which philanthropists to come will feel any very eager desire to assist in realizing."[2]

[Footnote 1: Cicero's Letters]

[Footnote 2: Principles of Political Economy, Book iv., ch. vi.]

Saladin the Great conquered Syria, Arabia, Persia, and Mesopotamia. He was the greatest warrior
and conqueror of his time. His power and wealth were enormous. Yet he was fully persuaded of
the utter hollowness of riches. He ordered, by his will, that considerable sums should be distributed
to Mussulmans, Jews, and Christians, in order that the priests of the three religions might
implore for him the mercy of God. He commanded that the shirt or tunic which he wore at the
time of his death should be carried on the end of a spear throughout the whole camp and at
the head of his army, and that the soldier who bore it should pause at intervals and say aloud,
"Behold all that remains of the Emperor Saladin!--of all the states he had conquered; of all
the provinces he had subdued; of the boundless treasures he had amassed; of the countless wealth
he possessed, he retained, in dying, nothing but this shroud!"

Don Jose de Salamanca, the great railway contractor of Spain, was, in the early part of his
life, a student at the University of Granada. He there wore, as he himself says, the oldest
and most worn of cassocks. He was a diligent student; and after leaving college he became a
member of the Spanish press. From thence he was translated to the Cabinet of Queen Christina,
of which he became Finance Minister. This brought out his commercial capacities, and induced
him to enter on commercial speculations. He constructed railways in Spain and Italy, and took
the principal share in establishing several steam-shipping companies. But while pursuing commerce,
he did not forget literature. Once a week he kept an open table, to which the foremost men
in literature and the press were invited. They returned his hospitality by inviting him to
a dinner on the most economic scale. Busts of Shakespeare, Cervantes, Dante, Schiller, and
other literary men, adorned the room.

In returning thanks for his health, Salamanca referred to his university experience, and to
his labours in connection with the press. "Then," he went on to say, "the love of gold took
possession of my soul, and it was at Madrid that I found the object of my adoration; but not,
alas! without the loss of my juvenile illusions. Believe me, gentlemen, the man who can satisfy
all his wishes has no more enjoyment. Keep to the course you have entered on, I advise you.
Rothschild's celebrity will expire on the day of his death. Immortality can be earned, not
bought. Here are before us the effigies of men who have gloriously cultivated liberal arts;
their busts I have met with in every part of Europe; but nowhere have I found a statue erected
to the honour of a man who has devoted his life to making money."

Riches and happiness have no necessary connection with each other. In some cases it might be
said that happiness is in the inverse proportion to riches. The happiest part of most men's
lives is while they are battling with poverty, and gradually raising themselves above it. It
is then that they deny themselves for the sake of others,--that they save from their earnings
to secure a future independence,--that they cultivate their minds while labouring for their
daily bread,--that they endeavour to render themselves wiser and better--happier in their homes
and more useful to society at large.

There are compensations in every condition of life. The difference in the lot of the rich and
the poor is not so great as is generally imagined. The rich man has often to pay a heavy price
for his privileges. He is anxious about his possessions. He may be the victim of extortion.
He is apt to be cheated. He is the mark for every man's shaft. He is surrounded by a host of
clients, till his purse bleeds at every pore. As they say in Yorkshire when people become rich,
the money soon "broddles through." Or, if engaged in speculation, the rich man's wealth may
fly away at any moment. He may try again, and then wear his heart out in speculating on the
"chances of the market." Insomnia is a rich man's disease. The thought of his winnings and
losings keeps him sleepless. He is awake by day, and awake by night. "Riches on the brain"
is full of restlessness and agony.

The rich man over-eats or over-drinks; and he has gout. Imagine a man with a vice fitted to
his toe. Let the vice descend upon the joint, and be firmly screwed down. Screw it again. He
is in agony. Then suddenly turn the screw tighter--down, down! That is gout! Gout--of which
Sydenham has said, that "unlike any other disease, it kills more rich men than poor, more wise
than simple. Great kings, emperors, generals, admirals, and philosophers, have died of gout.
Hereby nature shows her impartiality, since those whom she favours in one way, she afflicts
in another Or, the rich man may become satiated with food, and lose his appetite; while the
poor man relishes and digests anything. A beggar asked alms of a rich man "because he was hungry."
"Hungry?" said the millionaire; "how I envy you!" Abernethy's prescription to the rich man
was, "Live upon a shilling a day, and earn it!" When the Duke of York consulted him about his
health, Abernethy's answer was, "Cut off the supplies, and the enemy will soon leave the citadel."
The labourer who feels little and thinks less, has the digestion of an ostrich; while the non-worker
is never allowed to forget that he has a stomach, and is obliged to watch every mouthful that
he eats. Industry and indigestion are two things seldom found united.

Many people envy the possessions of the rich, but will not pass through the risks, the fatigues,
or the dangers of acquiring them. It is related of the Duke of Dantzic that an old comrade,
whom he had not seen for many years, called upon him at his hotel in Paris, and seemed amazed
at the luxury of his apartments, the richness of his furniture, and the magnificence of his
gardens. The Duke, supposing that he saw in his old comrade's face a feeling of jealousy, said
to him bluntly, "You may have all that you see before you, on one condition." "What is that?"
said his friend. "It is that you will place yourself twenty paces off, and let me fire at you
with a musket a hundred times." "I will certainly not accept your offer at that price." "Well,"
replied the Marshal, "to gain all that you see before you, I have faced more than a thousand
gunshots, fired at not move than ten paces off."

The Duke of Marlborough often faced death. He became rich, and left a million and a half to
his descendants to squander. The Duke was a penurious man. He is said to have scolded his servant
for lighting four candles in his tent, when Prince Eugene called upon him to hold a conference
before the battle of Blenheim. Swift said of the Duke, "I dare hold a wager that in all his
compaigns he was never known to lose his baggage." But this merely showed his consummate generalship.
When ill and feeble at Bath, he is said to have walked home from the rooms to his lodgings,
to save sixpence. And yet this may be excused, for he may have walked home for exercise. He
is certainly known to have given a thousand pounds to a young and deserving soldier who wished
to purchase a commission. When Bolingbroke was reminded of one of the weaknesses of Marlborough,
he observed, "He was so great a man, that I forgot that he had that defect."

It is no disgrace to be poor. The praise of honest poverty has often been sung. When a man
will not stoop to do wrong, when he will not sell himself for money, when he will not do a
dishonest act, then his poverty is most honourable. But the man is not poor who can pay his
way, and save something besides. He who pays cash for all that he purchases, is not poor but
well off. He is in a happier condition than the idle gentleman who runs into debt, and is clothed,
shod, and fed at the expense of his tailor, shoemaker, and butcher. Montesquieu says, that
a man is not poor because he has nothing, but he is poor when he will not or cannot work. The
man who is able and willing to work, is better off than the man who possesses a thousand crowns
without the necessity for working.

Nothing sharpens a man's wits like poverty. Hence many of the greatest men have originally
been poor men. Poverty often purifies and braces a man's morals. To spirited people, difficult
tasks are usually the most delightful ones. If we may rely upon the testimony of history, men
are brave, truthful, and magnanimous, not in proportion to their wealth, but in proportion
to their smallness of means. And the best are often the poorest,--always supposing that they
have sufficient to meet their temporal wants. A divine has said that God has created poverty,
but He has not created misery. And there is certainly a great difference between the two. While
honest poverty is honourable, misery is humiliating; inasmuch as the latter is for the most
part the result of misconduct, and often of idleness and drunkenness. Poverty is no disgrace
to him who can put up with it; but he who finds the beggar's staff once get warm in his hand,
never does any good, but a great amount of evil.

The poor are often the happiest of people--far more so than the rich; but though they may be
envied, no one will be found willing to take their place. Moore has told the story of the over-fed,
over-satisfied eastern despot, who sent a messenger to travel through the world, in order to
find out the happiest man. When discovered, the messenger was immediately to seize him, take
his shirt off his back, and bring it to the Caliph. The messenger found the happiest man in
an Irishman,--happy, dancing, and flourishing his shillelagh. But when the ambassador proceeded
to seize him, and undress him, he found that the Irishman had got no shirt to his back! The
unequal distribution of the disposition to be happy, is of far greater importance than the
unequal distribution of wealth. The disposition to be content and satisfied, said David Hume,
is at least equal to an income of a thousand a year. Montaigne has observed that Fortune confers
but little. Human good or ill does not depend upon it. It is but the seed of good, which the
soul, infinitely stronger than wealth, changes and applies as it pleases, and is thus the only
cause of a happy or unhappy disposition.

England is celebrated for its charities. M. Guizot declares that there is nothing in this land
that so fills the mind of the stranger with amazement at our resources, and admiration at our
use of them, as the noble free-gift monuments raised on every side for the relief of multiform
suffering. The home philanthropist, who looks a little deeper than the foreign visitor, may
be disposed to take another view of the effects of money-giving. That charity produces unmixed
good, is very much questioned. Charity, like man, is sometimes blind, and frequently misguided.
Unless money is wisely distributed, it will frequently do more harm than good. If charity could
help or elevate the poor, London would now be the happiest city in the world; for about three
millions of money are spent on charity, and about one in every three of the London population
are relieved by charitable institutions.

It is very easy to raise money for charity. Subscription lists constantly attest the fact.
A rich man is asked by some influential person for money. It is very easy to give it. It saves
time to give it. It is considered a religious duty to give it. Yet to give money unthinkingly,
to give it without considering how it is to be used,--instead of being for the good of our
fellow-creatures,--may often prove the greatest injury we could inflict upon them. True benevolence
does not consist in giving money. Nor can charitable donations, given indiscriminately to the
poor, have any other effect than to sap the foundations of self-respect, and break down the
very outworks of virtue itself. There are many forms of benevolence which create the very evils
they are intended to cure, and encourage the poorer classes in the habit of dependence upon
the charity of others,--to the neglect of those far healthier means of social well-being which
lie within their own reach.

One would think that three million a year were sufficient to relieve all the actual distress
that exists in London. Yet the distress, notwithstanding all the money spent upon it, goes
on increasing. May not the money spent in charity, create the distress it relieves,--besides
creating other distress which it fails to relieve? Uneducated and idle people will not exert
themselves for a living, when they have the hope of obtaining the living without exertion.
Who will be frugal and provident, when charity offers all that frugality and providence can
confer? Does not the gift of the advantages, comforts, and rewards of industry, without the
necessity of labouring for them, tend to sap the very foundations of energy and self-reliance?
Is not the circumstance that poverty is the only requisite qualification on the part of the
applicant for charity, calculated to tempt the people to self-indulgence, to dissipation, and
to those courses of life which keep them poor?

Men who will not struggle and exert themselves, are those who are helped first. The worst sort
of persons are made comfortable: whilst the hard-working, self-supporting man, who disdains
to throw himself upon charity, is compelled to pay rates for the maintenance of the idle. Charity
stretches forth its hand to the rottenest parts of society; it rarely seeks out, or helps,
the struggling and the honest. As Carlyle has said, "O my astonishing benevolent friends! that
never think of meddling with the material while it continues sound; that stress and strain
it with new rates and assessments, till even it has given way and declared itself rotten; whereupon
you greedily snatch at it, and say, 'Now let us try to do some good upon it!'"

The charity which merely consists in giving, is an idle indulgence--often an idle vice. The
mere giving of money will never do the work of philanthropy. As a recent writer has said, "The
crimes of the virtuous, the blasphemies of the pious, and the follies of the wise, would scarcely
fill a larger volume than the cruelties of the humane. In this world a large part of the occupation
of the wise has been to neutralize the efforts of the good."

"Public charities," said the late Lord Lytton, "are too often merely a bonus to public indolence
and vice. What a dark lesson of the fallacy of human wisdom does this knowledge strike into
the heart! What a waste of the materials of kindly sympathies! What a perversion individual
mistakes can cause, even in the virtues of a nation! Charity is a feeling dear to the pride
of the human heart--it is an aristocratic emotion! Mahomet testified his deep knowledge of
his kind when he allowed the vice hardest to control,--sexual licentiousness; and encouraged
the virtue easiest to practise,--charity."[1]

[Footnote 1: LORD LYTTON--England and the English, p. 124.]

There are clergymen in London who say that charity acts against the extension of religion amongst
the people. The Rev. Mr. Stone says, "He is an unwelcome visitor to the poor who brings the
Bible in one hand, without a loaf, a blanket, or a shilling in the other. And no wonder. By
the prevailing system of charitable relief they have been nursed in this carnal spirit; they
have been justified in those selfish expectations. Instead of being allowed to learn the great
and salutary lesson of providence, that there is a necessary connection between their conduct
and their condition, they have, by this artificial system, been taught that indigence is of
itself sufficient to constitute a claim to relief. They have been thus encouraged in improvidence,
immorality, fraud, and hypocrisy."

The truest philanthropists are those who endeavour to prevent misery, dependence, and destitution;
and especially those who diligently help the poor to help themselves. This is the great advantage
of the "Parochial Mission-Women Association."[1] They bring themselves into close communication
with the people in the several parishes of London, and endeavour to assist them in many ways.
But they avoid giving indiscriminate alms. Their objects are "to help the poor to help themselves,
and to raise them by making them feel that they can help themselves." There is abundant room
for philanthropy amongst all classes; and it is most gratifying to find ladies of high distinction
taking part in this noble work.

[Footnote 1: See East and West, edited by the Countess Spencer.]

There are numerous other societies established of late years, which afford gratifying instances
of the higher and more rational, as well as really more Christian, forms of charity. The societies
for improving the dwellings of the industrial classes,--for building baths and washhouses,--for
establishing workmen's, seamen's, and servants' homes,--for cultivating habits of providence
and frugality amongst the working-classes,--and for extending the advantages of knowledge amongst
the people,--are important agencies of this kind. These, instead of sapping the foundations
of self-reliance, are really and truly helping the people to help themselves, and are deserving
of every approbation and encouragement. They tend to elevate the condition of the mass; they
are embodiments of philanthropy in its highest form; and are calculated to bear good fruit
through all time.

Rich men, with the prospect of death before them, are often very much concerned about their
money affairs. If unmarried and without successors, they find a considerable difficulty in
knowing what to do with the pile of gold they have gathered together during their lifetime.
They must make a will, and leave it to somebody. In olden times, rich people left money to
pay for masses for their souls. Perhaps many do so still. Some founded almshouses; others hospitals.
Money was left for the purpose of distributing doles to poor persons, or to persons of the
same name and trade as the deceased.

"These doles," said the wife of a clergyman in the neighbourhood of London, "are doing an infinite
deal of mischief: they are rapidly pauperising the parish." Not long since, the town of Bedford
was corrupted and demoralized by the doles and benefactions which rich men had left to the
poorer classes. Give a man money without working for it, and he will soon claim it as a right.
It practically forbids him to exercise forethought, or to provide against the vicissitudes
of trade, or the accidents of life. It not only breaks down the bulwarks of independence, but
the outposts of virtue itself.

Large sums of money are left by rich men to found "Charities." They wish to do good, but in
many cases they do much moral injury. Their "Charities" are anything but charitable. They destroy
the self-respect of the working-classes, and also of the classes above them. "We can get this
charity for nothing. We can get medical assistance for nothing. We can get our children educated
for nothing. Why should we work? Why should we save?" Such is the idea which charity, so-called,
inculcates. The "Charitable Institution" becomes a genteel poor-house; and the lesson is extensively
taught that we can do better by begging than by working.

The bequeathment of Stephen Girard, the wealthy American merchant, was of a different character.
Girard was a native of Bordeaux. An orphan at an early age, he was put on board a ship as a
cabin boy. He made his first voyage to North America when about ten or twelve years old. He
had little education, and only a limited acquaintance with reading and writing. He worked hard.
He gradually improved in means so that he was able to set up a store. Whilst living in Water
Street, New York, he fell in love with Polly Luna, the daughter of a caulker. The father forbade
the marriage. But Girard persevered, and at length he won and married Polly Lum. It proved
a most unfortunate marriage. His wife had no sympathy with him; and he became cross, snappish,
morose. He took to sea again; and at forty he commanded his own sloop, and was engaged in the
coasting trade between New York, Philadelphia, and New Orleans.

Then he settled in Philadelphia, and became a merchant. He devoted his whole soul to his business;
for he had determined to become rich. He practised the most rigid economy. He performed any
work by which money could be made. He shut his heart against the blandishments of life. The
desire for wealth seems to have possessed his soul. His life was one of unceasing labour. Remember,
that Girard was unhappy at home. His nature might have been softened, had he been blessed with
a happy wife. He led ten miserable years with her; and then she became insane. She lay for
about twenty years in the Pennsylvania hospital, and died there.

Yet there was something more than hardness and harshness in Girard. There was a deep under-current
of humanity in him. When the yellow fever broke out in Philadelphia, in 1793, his better nature
showed itself. The people were smitten to death by thousands. Nurses could not be found to
attend the patients in the hospital. It was regarded as certain death to nurse the sick.

It was at this time, when many were stricken with fever, that Girard abandoned his business,
and offered his services as superintendent of the public hospital. He had Peter Helm for his
associate. Girard's business faculty immediately displayed itself. His powers of organization
were immense, and the results of his work were soon observed. Order began to reign where everything
had before been in confusion. Dirt was conquered by cleanliness. Where there had been wastefulness,
there was now thriftiness. Where there had been neglect, there was unremitting attention. Girard
saw that every case was properly attended to. He himself attended to the patients afflicted
by the loathsome disease, ministered to the dying, and performed the last kind offices for
the dead. At last the plague was stayed; and Girard and Helm returned to their ordinary occupations.

The visitors of the poor in Philadelphia placed the following minute on their books: "Stephen
Girard and Peter Helm, members of the committee, commiserating the calamitous state to which
the sick may probably be reduced for want of suitable persons to superintend the hospital,
voluntarily offered their services for that benevolent employment, and excited a surprise and
satisfaction that can be better conceived than expressed."

The results of Stephen Girard's industry and economy may be seen in Philadelphia--in the beautiful
dwelling houses, row after row,--but more than all, in the magnificent marble edifice of Girard
College. He left the greater part of his fortune for public purposes,--principally to erect
and maintain a public library and a large orphanage. It might have been in regard to his own
desolate condition, when cast an orphan amongst strangers and foreigners, that he devised his
splendid charity for poor, forlorn, and fatherless children. One of the rooms in the college
is singularly furnished. "Girard had directed that a suitable room was to be set apart for
the preservation of his books and papers; but from excess of pious care, or dread of the next-of
kin, all the plain homely man's effects were shovelled into this room. Here are his boxes and
his bookcase, his gig and his gaiters, his pictures and his pottery; and in a bookcase, hanging
with careless grace, are his braces--old homely knitted braces, telling their tale of simplicity
and carefulness."[1]

[Footnote 1: Gentleman's Magazine, April. 1875. George Dawson on "Niagara and Elsewhere."]

One of the finest hospitals in London is that founded by Thomas Guy, the bookseller. He is
said to have been a miser. At all events he must have been a thrifty and saving man. No foundation
such as that of Guy's can be accomplished without thrift. Men who accomplish such things must
deny themselves for the benefit of others. Thomas Guy appears early to have projected schemes
of benevolence. He first built and endowed almshouses at Tamworth for fourteen poor men and
women, with pensions for each occupant; and with a thoughtfulness becoming his vocation, he
furnished them with a library. He had himself been educated at Tamworth, where he had doubtless
seen hungry and homeless persons suffering from cleanness of teeth and the winter's rage; and
the almshouses were his contribution for their relief. He was a bookseller in London at that
time. Guy prospered, not so much by bookselling, as by buying and selling South Sea Stock.
When the bubble burst, he did not hold a share: but he had realized a profit of several hundred
thousand pounds. This sum he principally employed in building and endowing the hospital which
bears his name. The building was roofed in before his death, in 1724.

Scotch benefactors for the most part leave their savings for the purpose of founding hospitals
for educational purposes. There was first the Heriot's Hospital, founded in Edinburgh by George
Heriot, the goldsmith of James I., for maintaining and educating a hundred and eighty boys.
But the property of the hospital having increased in value--the New Town of Edinburgh being
for the most part built on George Heriot's land--the operations of the charity have been greatly
extended; as many as four thousand boys and girls being now educated free of expense, in different
parts of the city. There are also the George Watson's Hospital, the John Watson's Hospital,
the Orphan Hospital, two Maiden Hospitals, the Cauven's Hospital, the Donaldson's Hospital,
the Stewart's Hospital, and the splendid Fettes College (recently opened),--all founded by
Scottish benefactors for the ordinary education of boys and girls, and also for their higher
education. Edinburgh may well be called the City of Educational Endowments. There is also the
Madras College, at St. Andrews, founded by the late Andrew Bell, D.D.; the Dollar Institution,
founded by John Macrat; and the Dick Bequest, for elevating the character and position of the
parochial schools and schoolmasters, in the counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and Moray. The effects
of this last bequest have been most salutary. It has raised the character of the education
given in the public schools, and the results have been frequently observed at Cambridge, where
men from the northern counties have taken high honours in all departments of learning.

English benefactors have recently been following in the same direction. The Owen's College
at Manchester; the Brown Library and Museum at Liverpool; the Whitworth Benefaction, by which
thirty scholarships of the annual value of £100 each have been founded for the promotion of
technical instruction; and the Scientific College at Birmingham, founded by Sir Josiah Mason,
for the purpose of educating the rising generation in "sound, extensive, and practical scientific
knowledge,"--form a series of excellent institutions which will, we hope, be followed by many
similar benefactions. A man need not moulder with the green grass over his grave, before his
means are applied to noble purposes. He can make his benefactions while living, and assist
at the outset in carrying out his liberal intentions.

Among the great benefactors of London, the name of Mr. Peabody, the American banker, cannot
be forgotten. It would take a volume to discuss his merits, though we must dismiss him in a
paragraph. He was one of the first to see, or at all events to make amends for, the houseless
condition of the working classes of London. In the formation of railways under and above ground,
in opening out and widening new streets, in erecting new public buildings,--the dwellings of
the poor were destroyed, and their occupants swarmed away, no one knew whither. Perhaps they
crowded closer together, and bred disease in many forms. Societies and companies were formed
to remedy the evil to a certain extent. Sir Sydney Waterlow was one of the first to lead the
way, and he was followed by others. But it was not until Mr. Peabody had left his splendid
benefaction to the poor of London, that any steps could be taken to deal with the evil on a
large and comprehensive scale. His trustees have already erected ranges of workmen's dwellings
in many parts of the metropolis,--which will from time to time be extended to other parts.
The Peabody dwellings furnish an example of what working men's dwellings ought to be. They
are clean, tidy, and comfortable homes. They have diminished drunkenness; they have promoted
morality. Mr. Peabody intended that his bounty should "directly ameliorate the condition and
augment the comforts of the poor," and he hoped that the results would "be appreciated, not
only by the present, but by future generations of the people of London." From all that the
trustees have done, it is clear that they are faithfully and nobly carrying out his intentions.

All these benefactors of the poor were originally men of moderate means. Some of them were
at one time poor men. Sir Joseph Whitworth was a journeyman engineer with Mr. Clement, in Southwark,
the inventor of the planing machine. Sir Josiah Mason was by turns a costermonger, journeyman
baker, shoemaker, carpet weaver, jeweller, split-steel ring maker (here he made his first thousand
pounds), steel-pen maker, copper-smelter, and electro-plater, in which last trade he made his
fortune. Mr, Peabody worked his way up by small degrees, from a clerk in America to a banker
in London. Their benefactions have been the result of self-denial, industry, sobriety, and thrift.

Benevolence throws out blossoms which do not always ripen into fruit. It is easy enough to
project a benevolent undertaking, but more difficult to carry it out. The author was once induced
to take an interest in a proposed Navvy's Home; but cold water was thrown upon the project,
and it failed. The navvy workmen, who have made the railways and docks of England, are a hard-working
but a rather thriftless set. They are good-hearted fellows, but sometimes drunken. In carrying
out their operations, they often run great dangers. They are sometimes so seriously injured
by wounds and fractures as to be disabled for life. For instance, in carrying out the works
of the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway, there were twenty-two cases of compound
fractures seventy-four simple fractures, besides burns from blasts, severe contusions, lacerations,
and dislocations. One man lost both his eyes by a blast, another had his arm broken by a blast.
Many lost their fingers, feet, legs, and arms; which disabled them for further work. Knowing
the perils to which railway labourers were exposed, it occurred to a late eminent contractor
to adopt some method for helping and comforting them in their declining years. The subject
was brought under the author's notice by his friend the late Mr. Eborall, in the following
words: "I have just been visiting a large contractor--a man of great wealth; and he requests
your assistance in establishing a 'Navvy's Home.' You know that many of the contractors and
engineers, who have been engaged in the construction of railways, are men who have accumulated
immense fortunes: the savings of some of them amount to millions. Well, my friend the contractor
not long since found a miserable, worn-out old man in a ditch by the roadside. 'What,' said
he, 'is that you?' naming the man in the ditch by his name. 'Ay,' replied the man, ''deed it
is!' 'What are you doing there?' 'I have come here to die. I can work no more.' 'Why don't
you go to the workhouse? they will attend to your wants there.' 'No! no workhouse for me! If
I am to die, I will die in the open air.' The contractor recognized in the man one of his former
navvies. He had worked for him and for other contractors many years; and while they had been
making their fortunes, the navvy who had worked for them had fallen so low as to be found dying
in a ditch. The contractor was much affected. He thought of the numerous other navvies who
must be wanting similar help. Shortly after, he took ill, and during his illness, thinking
of what he might do for the navvies, the idea occurred to him of founding a 'Navvy's Home;'
and he has desired me to ask you to assist him in bringing out the institution."

It seemed to the author an admirable project, and he consented to do all that he could for
it. But when the persons who were the most likely to contribute to such an institution were
applied to, they threw such floods of cold water upon it,[1] that it became evident, in the
face of their opposition, that "The Navvy's Home" could not be established. Of course, excuses
were abundant. "Navvies were the most extravagant workmen. They threw away everything that
they earned. They spent their money on beer, whisky, tally-women, and champagne. If they died
in ditches, it was their own fault. They might have established themselves in comfort, if they
wished to do so. Why should other people provide for them in old age, more than for any other
class of labourers? There was the workhouse: let them go there." And so on. It is easy to find
a stick to beat a sick dog. As for the original projector, he recovered his health, he forgot
to subscribe for "The Navvy's Home," and the scheme fell to the ground.

"The devil was sick, the devil a saint would be: The devil grew well, the devil a saint was he.'

[Footnote 1: With one admirable exception. A noble-hearted man, still living volunteered a
very large subscription towards the establishment of "the Navvy's Home."]

CHAPTER XV.

HEALTHY HOMES.

"The best security for civilization is the dwelling. "--B. Disraeli.

"Cleanliness is the elegance of the poor."--English Proverb.

"Sanitas sanitatum, et omnia sanitas."--Julius Menochius.

"Virtue never dwelt long with filth and nastiness."--Count Rumford.

Health is said to be wealth. Indeed, all wealth is valueless without health. Every man who
lives by labour, whether of mind or body, regards health as one of the most valuable of possessions.
Without it, life would be unenjoyable. The human system has been so framed as to render enjoyment
one of the principal ends of physical life. The whole arrangement, structure, and functions
of the human system are beautifully adapted for that purpose.

The exercise of every sense is pleasurable,--the exercise of sight, hearing, taste, touch,
and muscular effort. What can be more pleasurable, for instance, than the feeling of entire
health,--health, which is the sum-total of the functions of life, duly performed? "Enjoyment,"
says Dr. Southwood Smith, "is not only the end of life, but it is the only condition of life
which is compatible with a protracted term of existence. The happier a human being is, the
longer he lives; the more he suffers, the sooner he dies. To add to enjoyment, is to lengthen
life; to inflict pain, is to shorten its duration."

Happiness is the rule of healthy existence; pain and misery are its exceptional conditions.
Nor is pain altogether an evil; it is rather a salutary warning. It tells us that we have transgressed
some rule, violated some law, disobeyed some physical obligation. It is a monitor which warns
us to amend our state of living. It virtually says,--Return to nature, observe her laws, and
be restored to happiness. Thus, paradoxical though it may seem, pain is one of the conditions
of the physical well-being of man; as death, according to Dr. Thomas Brown, is one of the conditions
of the enjoyment of life.

To enjoy physical happiness, therefore, the natural laws must be complied with. To discover
and observe these laws, man has been endowed with the gift of reason. Does he fail to exercise
this gift,--does he neglect to comply with the law of his being,--then pain and disease are
the necessary consequence.

Man violates the laws of nature in his own person, and he suffers accordingly. He is idle and
overfeeds himself: he is punished by gout, indigestion, or apoplexy. He drinks too much: he
becomes bloated, trembling, and weak; his appetite falls off, his strength declines, his constitution
decays; and he falls a victim to the numerous diseases which haunt the steps of the drunkard.

Society suffers in the same way. It leaves districts undrained, and streets uncleaned. Masses
of the population are allowed to live crowded together in unwholesome dens, half poisoned by
the mephitic air of the neighbourhood. Then a fever breaks out,--or a cholera, or a plague.
Disease spreads from the miserable abodes of the poor into the comfortable homes of the rich,
carrying death and devastation before it. The misery and suffering incurred in such cases,
are nothing less than wilful, inasmuch as the knowledge necessary to avert them is within the
reach of all.

Wherever any number of persons live together, the atmosphere becomes poisoned, unless means
be provided for its constant change and renovation. If there be not sufficient ventilation,
the air becomes charged with carbonic acid, principally the product of respiration. Whatever
the body discharges, becomes poison to the body if introduced again through the lungs. Hence
the immense importance of pure air. A deficiency of food may be considerably less injurious
than a deficiency of pure air. Every person above fourteen years of age requires about six
hundred cubic feet of shut-up space to breathe in during the twenty-four hours.[1] If he sleeps
in a room of smaller dimensions, he will suffer more or less, and gradually approach the condition
of being smothered.

[Footnote 1: Where six hundred cubic feet of space is allowed, the air requires to be changed,
by ventilation, five times in the hour, in order to keep it pure. The best amount of space
to be allowed for a healthy adult is about eight hundred cubic feet. The air which is breathed
becomes so rapidly impure, that a constant supply of fresh air must be kept up to make the
air of the shut-up space fit for breathing. The following are some amounts of space per head
which are met with in practice:--

Artizan rooms                200 cubic feet.
Metropolitan Lodging
Houses                       240   "
Poor Law Board Dormitories   300   "
Barrack Regulation           60    "
The best Hospitals         1,500 to 2,000
                               cubic feet.]

Shut up a mouse in a glass receiver, and it will gradually die by rebreathing its own breath.
Shut up a man in a confined space, and he will die in the same way. The English soldiers expired
in the Black Hole of Calcutta because they wanted pure air. Thus about half the children born
in some manufacturing towns die, before they are five years old, principally because they want
pure air. Humboldt tells of a sailor who was dying of fever in the close hold of a ship. His
comrades brought him out of his hold to die in the open air. Instead of dying, he revived,
and eventually got well. He was cured by the pure air.

The most common result of breathing impure air, amongst adults, is fever. The heaviest municipal
tax, said Dr. Southwood Smith, is the fever tax. It is estimated that in Liverpool some seven
thousand persons are yearly attacked by fever, of whom about five hundred die. Fever usually
attacks persons of between twenty and thirty, or those who generally have small families depending
on them for support. Hence deaths from fever, by causing widowhood and orphanage, impose a
very heavy tax upon the inhabitants of all the large manufacturing towns. Dr. Playfair, after
carefully considering the question, is of opinion that the total pecuniary loss inflicted on
the county of Lancashire from preventible disease, sickness, and death, amounts to not less
than five millions sterling annually. But this is only the physical and pecuniary loss. The
moral loss is infinitely greater.

Where are now the "happy humble swains" and the "gentle shepherds" of the old English poets?
At the present time, they are nowhere to be found. The modern Strephon and Phyllis are a very
humble pair, living in a clay-floored cottage, and maintaining a family on from twelve to fifteen
shillings a week. And so far from Strephon spending his time in sitting by a purling stream
playing "roundelays" upon a pipe,--poor fellow! he can scarcely afford to smoke one, his hours
of labour are so long, and his wages are so small. As for Daphnis, he is a lout, and can neither
read nor write; nor is his Chloe any better.

Phineas Fletcher thus sang of "The Shepherd's Home:"--

"Thrice, oh, thrice happie shepherd's life and state! Have spinning-jennies swallowed him up?
Alas! as was observed of Mrs. Harris, "there's no such a person." Did he ever exist? We have
a strong suspicion that he never did, save in the imaginations of poets.

Before the age of railroads and sanitary reformers, the pastoral life of the Arcadians was
a beautiful myth, The Blue Book men have exploded it for ever. The agricultural labourers have
not decent houses,--only miserable huts, to live in. They have but few provisions for cleanliness
or decency. Two rooms for sleeping and living in, are all that the largest family can afford.
Sometimes they have only one. The day-room, in addition to the family, contains the cooking
utensils, the washing apparatus, agricultural implements, and dirty clothes. In the sleeping
apartment, the parents and their children, boys and girls, are indiscriminately mixed, and
frequently a lodger sleeps in the same and only room, which has generally no window,--the openings
in the half-thatched roof admitting light, and exposing the family to every vicissitude of
the weather. The husband, having no comfort at home, seeks it in the beershop. The children
grow up without decency or self-restraint. As for the half-hearted wives and daughters, their
lot is very miserable.

It is not often that village affairs are made the subject of discussion in newspapers, for
the power of the press has not yet reached remote country places. But we do hear occasionally
of whole villages being pulled down and razed, in order to prevent them "becoming nests of
beggars' brats." A member of Parliament did not hesitate to confess before a Parliamentary
Committee, that he "had pulled down between twenty-six and thirty cottages, which, had they
been left standing, would have been inhabited by young married couples." And what becomes of
the dispossessed? They crowd together in the cottages which are left standing, if their owners
will allow it; or they crowd into the workhouses; or, more generally, they crowd into the towns,
where there is at least some hope of employment for themselves and their children.

Our manufacturing towns are not at all what they ought to be; not sufficiently pure, wholesome,
or well-regulated. But the rural labourers regard even the misery of towns as preferable to
the worse misery of the rural districts; and year by year they crowd into the seats of manufacturing
industry in search of homes and employment. This speaks volumes as to the actual state of our
"boasted peasantry, their country's pride."

The intellectual condition of the country labourers seems to be on a par with their physical
state. Those in the western counties are as little civilized as the poor people in the east
of London. A report of the Diocesan Board of the county of Hereford states that "a great deal
of the superstition of past ages lingers in our parishes. The observation of lucky and unlucky
days and seasons is by no means unusual; the phases of the moon are regarded with great respect,--in
one, medicine may be taken, in another it is advisable to kill a pig; over the doors of many
houses may be found twigs placed crosswise, and never suffered to lose their cruciform position;
and the horseshoe preserves its old station on many a stable-door. Charms are devoutly believed
in; a ring made from a shilling, offered at the communion, is an undoubted cure for fits; hair
plucked from the crop on an ass's shoulder, and woven into a chain, to be put round a child's
neck, is powerful for the same purpose; and the hand of a corpse applied to the neck is believed
to disperse a wen. The 'evil eye,' so long dreaded in uneducated countries, has its terrors
among us; and if a person of ill life be suddenly called away, there are generally some who
hear his 'tokens,' or see his ghost. There exists, besides, the custom of communicating deaths
to hives of bees, in the belief that they invariably abandon their owners if the intelligence
be withheld."

Sydney Smith has said, with more truth than elegance, that in the infancy of all nations, even
the most civilized, men lived the life of pigs; and if sanitary reporters had existed in times
past as they do now, we should doubtless have received an account of the actual existence and
domestic accommodation of the old English "swains" and "shepherds," very different from that
given by Phineas Fletcher. Even the mechanics of this day are more comfortably lodged than
the great landed gentry of the Saxon and Norman periods: and if the truth could be got at,
it would be found that, bad as is the state of our agricultural labourers now, the condition
of their forefathers was no better.

The first method of raising a man above the life of an animal is to provide him with a healthy
home. The Home is after all the best school for the world. Children grow up into men and women
there; they imbibe their best and their worst morality there; and their morals and intelligence
are in a great measure well or ill trained there. Men can only be really and truly humanized
and civilized through the institution of the Home. There is domestic purity and moral life
in the good home; and individual defilement and moral death in the bad one. The schoolmaster
has really very little to do with the formation of the characters of children. These are formed
in the home, by the father and mother,--by brothers, sisters, and companions. It does not matter
how complete may be the education given in schools. It may include the whole range of knowledge:
yet if the scholar is under the necessity of daily returning to a home which is indecent, vicious,
and miserable, all this learning will prove of comparatively little value. Character and disposition
are the result of home training; and if these are, through bad physical and moral conditions,
deteriorated and destroyed, the intellectual culture acquired in the school may prove an instrumentality
for evil rather than for good.

The home should not be considered merely as an eating and sleeping place; but as a place where
self-respect may be preserved, and comfort secured, and domestic pleasures enjoyed. Three-fourths
of the petty vices which degrade society, and swell into crimes which disgrace it, would shrink
before the influence of self-respect. To be a place of happiness, exercising beneficial influences
upon its members,--and especially upon the children growing up within it,--the home must be
pervaded by the spirit of comfort, cleanliness, affection, and intelligence. And in order to
secure this, the presence of a well-ordered, industrious, and educated woman is indispensable.
So much depends upon the woman, that we might almost pronounce the happiness or unhappiness
of the home to be woman's work. No nation can advance except through the improvement of the
nation's homes; and these can only be improved through the instrumentality of women. They must
know how to make homes comfortable; and before they can know, they must have been taught.

Women must, therefore, have sufficient training to fit them for their duties in real life.
Their education should be conducted throughout, with a view to their future position as wives,
mothers, and housewives. But amongst all classes, even the highest, the education of girls
is rarely conducted with this object. Amongst the working people, the girls are sent out to
work; amongst the higher classes, they are sent out to learn a few flashy accomplishments;
and men are left to pick from them, very often with little judgment, the future wives and mothers
of England.

Men themselves attach little or no importance to the intelligence or industrial skill of women;
and they only discover their value when they find their homes stupid and cheerless. Men are
caught by the glance of a bright eye, by a pair of cherry cheeks, by a handsome figure; and
when they "fall in love," as the phrase goes, they never bethink them of whether the "loved
one" can mend a shirt or cook a pudding. And yet the most sentimental of husbands must come
down from his "ecstatics" so soon as the knot is tied; and then he soon enough finds out that
the clever hands of a woman are worth far more than her bright glances; and if the shirt and
pudding qualifications be absent, then woe to the unhappy man, and woe also to the unhappy
woman! If the substantial element of physical comfort be absent from the home, it soon becomes
hateful; the wife, notwithstanding all her good looks, is neglected; and the public-house separates
those whom the law and the Church have joined together.

Men are really desperately ignorant respecting the home department. If they thought for a moment
of its importance, they would not be so ready to rush into premature housekeeping. Ignorant
men select equally ignorant women for their wives; and these introduce into the world families
of children, whom they are utterly incompetent to train as rational or domestic beings. The
home is no home, but a mere lodging, and often a very comfortless one.

We speak not merely of the poorest labourers, but of the best-paid workmen in the large manufacturing
towns. Men earning from two to three pounds a week,--or more than the average pay of curates
and bankers' clerks,--though spending considerable amounts on beer, will often grudge so small
a part of their income as half-a-crown a week to provide decent homes for themselves and their
children. What is the consequence? They degrade themselves and their families. They crowd together,
in foul neighbourhoods, into dwellings possessing no element of health or decency; where even
the small rental which they pay is in excess of the accommodation they receive. The results
are inevitable,--loss of self-respect, degradation of intelligence, failure of physical health,
and premature death. Even the highest-minded philosopher, placed in such a situation, would
gradually gravitate towards brutality.

But the amount thus saved, or rather not expended on house-rent, is not economy; it is reckless
waste. The sickness caused by the bad dwelling involves frequent interruptions of work, and
drains upon the Savings Bank or the Benefit Society; and a final and rapid descent to the poor-rates.
Though the loss to the middle and upper classes is great, the loss is not for a moment to be
compared with that which falls upon the working classes themselves, through their neglect in
providing wholesome and comfortable dwellings for their families. It is, perhaps, not saying
too much to aver, that one-half the money expended by benefit societies in large towns, may
be set down as pecuniary loss arising from bad and unhealthy homes.

But there is a worse consequence still. The low tone of physical health thereby produced is
one of the chief causes of drunkenness. Mr. Chadwick once remonstrated with an apparently sensible
workman on the expenditure of half his income on whisky. His reply was, "Do you, sir, come
and live here, and you will drink whisky too." Mr. Leigh says, "I would not be understood that
habits of intoxication are wholly due to a defective sanitary condition; but no person can
have the experience I have had without coming to the conclusion that unhealthy and unhappy
homes,--loss of vital and consequently of industrial energy, and a consciousness of inability
to control external circumstances,--induce thousands to escape from miserable depression in
the temporary excitement of noxious drugs and intoxicating liquors. They are like the seamen
who struggle for awhile against the evils by which they are surrounded, but at last, seeing
no hope, stupefy themselves with drink, and perish."

It may be said, in excuse, that working people must necessarily occupy such houses as are to
be had, and pay the rental asked for them, bad and unwholesome though they be. But there is
such a thing as supply and demand; and the dwellings now supplied are really those which are
most in demand, because of their lowness of rental. Were the working classes to shun unwholesome
districts, and low-priced dwellings, and rent only such tenements as were calculated to fulfil
the requirements of a wholesome and cleanly home, the owners of property would be compelled
to improve the character of their houses, and raise them to the required standard of comfort
and accommodation. The real remedy must lie with the working classes themselves. Let them determine
to raise their standard of rental, and the reform is in a great measure accomplished.

We have already shown how masters have done a great deal for the better accommodation of their
work-people--how the benefactors of the poor, such as Mr. Peabody and Lady Burdett Coutts,
have promoted the building of healthy homes. Yet the result must depend upon the individual
action of the working classes themselves. When they have the choice of living in a dwelling
situated in a healthy locality, and of another situated in an unhealthy locality, they ought
to choose the former. But very often they do not. There is perhaps a difference of sixpence
a week in the rental, and, not knowing the advantages of health, they take the unhealthy dwelling
because it is the cheapest. But the money that sickly people have to pay for physic, doctors'
bills, and loss of wages, far more than exceeds the amount saved by cheaper rental,--not to
speak of the loss of comfort, the want of cleanliness, and the depression of spirits, which
is inevitable where foul air is breathed.

To build a wholesome dwelling costs little more than to build an unwholesome one. What is wanted
on the part of the builder is, a knowledge of sanitary conditions, and a willingness to provide
the proper accommodation. The space of ground covered by the dwelling is the same in both cases;
the quantity of bricks and mortar need be no greater; and pure air is of the same price as
foul air. Light costs nothing. Such a Home will be regarded, not as a mere nest of common instinct,
but as a training-ground for young immortals, a sanctuary for the heart, a refuge from storms,
a sweet resting-place after labour, a consolation in sorrow, a pride in success, and a joy
at all times.

Much has been done to spread the doctrines of Sanitary Science. There is no mystery attached
to it, otherwise we should have had professors teaching it in colleges (as we have now), and
graduates practising it amongst the people. It is only of recent years that it has received
general recognition; and we owe it, not to the medical faculty, but to a barrister, that it
has become embodied in many important Acts of Parliament.

Edwin Chadwick has not yet received ordinary justice from his contemporaries. Though he has
been one of the most indefatigable and successful workers of the age, and has greatly influenced
the legislation of his time, he is probably less known than many a fourth-rate parliamentary
talker.

Mr. Chadwick belongs to a Lancashire family, and was born near Manchester. He received his
education chiefly in London. Having chosen the law for his profession, he was enrolled a student
of the Inner Temple in his twenty-sixth year. There he "ate his way" to the Bar; maintaining
himself by reporting and writing for the daily press. He was not a man of an extraordinary
amount of learning. But he was a sagacious and persevering man. He was ready to confront any
amount of labour in prosecuting an object, no matter how remote its attainment might at first
sight appear to be.

At an early period in his career, Edwin Chadwick became possessed by an idea. It is a great
thing to be thoroughly possessed by an idea, provided its aim and end be beneficent. It gives
a colour and bias to the whole of a man's life. The idea was not a new one; but being taken
up by an earnest, energetic, and hard-working man, there was some hope for the practical working
out of his idea in the actual life of humanity. It was neither more nor less than the Sanitary
Idea,--the germ of the sanitary movement.

We must now briefly state how he worked his way to its practical realization. It appears that
Mr. Morgan, the Government actuary, had stated before a parliamentary committee, that though
the circumstances of the middle classes had improved, their "expectation of life" had not lengthened.
This being diametrically opposed to our student's idea, he endeavoured to demonstrate the fallacy
of the actuary's opinion. He read up and sifted numerous statistical documents,--Blue Books,
life-tables, and population-tables. He bored his way through the cumbrous pile, and brought
an accumulation of facts from the most unlooked-for quarters, for the purpose of illustrating
his idea, and elucidating his master-thought.

The result was published in the Westminster Review for April, 1828. Mr. Chadwick demonstrated,
by an immense array of facts and arguments, that the circumstances which surround human beings
must have an influence upon their health; that health must improve with an improvement of these
circumstances; that many of the diseases and conditions unfavourable to human life were under
man's control, and capable of being removed; that the practice of vaccination, the diminution
of hard drinking amongst the middle and upper classes, the increase of habits of cleanliness,
the improvements in medical science, and the better construction of streets and houses, must,
according to all medical and popular experience, have contributed, à priori, to lengthen life;
and these he proved by a citation of facts from numerous authentic sources. In short, Mr. Morgan
was wrong. The "expectancy of life," as is now universally admitted, has improved and is rapidly
improving amongst the better classes; but it was never thoroughly demonstrated until Edwin
Chadwick undertook the discussion of the question.

Another article, which Mr. Chadwick published in the London Review, in 1829, on "Preventive
Police," was read by Jeremy Bentham, then in his eighty-second year, who so much admired it,
that he craved an introduction to the writer. The consequence was the formation of a friendship
that lasted without interruption until the death of the philosopher in 1832. Mr. Bentham wished
to engage the whole of his young friend's time in assisting him with the preparation of his
Administrative Code, and he offered to place him in independent circumstances if he would devote
himself exclusively to the advancement of his views. The offer was, however, declined.

Mr. Chadwick completed his law studies, and was called to the bar in November, 1830. He was
preparing to enter upon the practice of common law, occasionally contributing articles to the
Westminster, when he was, in 1832, appointed a commissioner, in conjunction with Dr. Southwood
Smith and Mr. Tooke, to investigate the question of Factory Labour, which Lord Ashley and Mr.
Sadler were at that time strongly pressing upon public attention. The sanitary idea again found
opportunity for expression in the report of the commission, which referred to "defective drainage,
ventilation, water supply, and the like, as causes of disease,--acting, concurrently with excessive
toil, to depress the health and shorten the lives of the factory population."

In the same year (1832) an important Commission of Inquiry was appointed by Lord Grey's Government,
in reference to the operation of the Poor Laws in England and Wales. Mr. Chadwick was appointed
one of the assistant commissioners, for the purpose of taking evidence on the subject; and
the districts of London and Berkshire were allotted to him. His report, published in the following
year, was a model of what a report should be. It was full of information, admirably classified
and arranged, and was so racy,--by virtue of the facts brought to light, and the care taken
to preserve the very words of the witnesses as they were spoken,--that the report may be read
with interest by the most inveterate enemy of blue-books.

Mr. Chadwick showed himself so thoroughly a master of the subject,--his suggestions were so
full of practical value,--that he was, shortly after the publication of the report, advanced
from the post of assistant commissioner to that of chief commissioner: and he largely shared,
with Mr. Senior, in the labours and honours of the commissioners' report submitted to the House
of Commons in 1834, and also in the famous Poor-Law Amendment Act passed in the same year,
in which the recommendations of the commissioners were substantially adopted and formalized.

One may venture to say now, without fear of contradiction, that that law was one of the most
valuable that has been placed on the statute-book in modern times. And yet no law proved more
unpopular than this was, for years after it had been enacted. But Mr. Chadwick never ceased
to have perfect faith in the soundness of the principles on which it was based, and he was
indefatigable in defending and establishing it. It has been well said, that "to become popular
is an easy thing; but to do unpopular justice,--that requires a Man." And Edwin Chadwick is
the man who has never failed in courage to do the right thing, even though it should prove
to be the unpopular thing.

Whilst burrowing amidst the voluminous evidence on the Poor Laws, Mr. Chadwick never lost sight
of his sanitary idea. All his reports were strongly imbued with it. One-fourth of the then
existing pauperism was traced by him to the preventible causes of disease. His minute investigations
into the condition of the labouring population and of the poorer classes generally, gave him
a thorough acquaintance with the physical evils that were preying upon the community, carrying
them off by fevers, consumption, and cholera; and the sanitary idea took still firmer possession
of his mind.

One day, in 1838, while engaged in his official vocation of Secretary to the Poor-Law Commission,
an officer of the Whitechapel Union hastily entered the Board-room of the Poor-Law Commission,
and, with a troubled countenance, informed the secretary that a terrible fever had broken out
round a stagnant pool in Whitechapel; that the people were dying by scores; and that the extreme
malignity of the cases gave reason to apprehend that the disease was allied to Asiatic cholera.
On hearing this, the Board, at Mr. Chadwick's instance, immediately appointed Drs. Arnott,
Kay, and Southwood Smith to investigate the causes of this alarming mortality, and to report
generally upon the sanitary condition of London. This inquiry at length ripened into the sanitary
inquiry.

In the meantime, Mr. Chadwick had been engaged as a member of the Commission, to inquire as
to the best means of establishing an efficient constabulary force in England and Wales. The
evidence was embodied in a report, as interesting as a novel of Dickens, which afforded a curious
insight into the modes of living, the customs and habits, of the lowest classes of the population.
When this question had been dismissed, Mr. Chadwick proceeded to devote himself almost exclusively
to the great work of his life,--the Sanitary Movement.

The Bishop of London, in 1839, moved in the Lords, that the inquiry which had been made at
Mr. Chadwick's instance by Drs. Southwood Smith, Arnott, and Kay, into the sanitary state of
the metropolis, should be extended to the whole population, city, rural, and manufacturing,
of England and Wales. Some residents in Edinburgh also petitioned that Scotland might be included;
and accordingly, in August, 1839, Lord John Russell addressed a letter to the Poor-Law Board,
authorizing them by royal command to extend to the whole of Great Britain the inquiry into
preventible disease, which had already been begun with regard to the metropolis. The onerous
task of setting on foot and superintending the inquiry throughout,--of sifting the evidence,
and classifying and condensing it for the purposes of publication,--devolved upon Mr. Chadwick.

The first Report on the Health of Towns was ready for publication in 1842. It ought to have
appeared as the Official Report of the Poor-Law Board; but as the commissioners (some of whom
were at variance with Mr. Chadwick with respect to the New Poor-Law) refused to assume the
responsibility of a document that contained much that must necessarily offend many influential
public bodies, Mr. Chadwick took the responsibility upon himself, and it was published as his
report,--which indeed it was,--and accepted from him as such by the commissioners.

The amount of dry, hard work encountered by Mr. Chadwick in the preparation of this and his
other reports can scarcely be estimated, except by those who know anything of the labour involved
in extracting from masses of evidence, written and printed, sent in from all parts of the empire,
only the most striking results bearing upon the question in hand, and such as are deemed worthy
of publication. The mountains of paper which Mr. Chadwick has thus bored through in his lifetime
must have been immense; and could they now be presented before him in one pile, they would
appal even his stout heart!

The sensation excited throughout the country by the publication of Mr. Chadwick's Sanitary
Report was immense. Such a revelation of the horrors lying concealed beneath the fair surface
of our modern civilization, had never before been published. But Mr. Chadwick had no idea of
merely creating a sensation. He had an object in view, which he persistently pursued. The report
was nothing, unless its recommendations were speedily carried into effect. A sanitary party
was formed; and the ministers for the time being, aided by members of both sides in politics,
became its influential leaders.

A Sanitary Commission was appointed in 1844, to consider the whole question in its practical
bearings. The Commission published two reports, with a view to legislation, but the Free-Trade
struggle interfered, and little was done for several years. Meanwhile our sanitary reformer
was occupied as a Commissioner in inquiring into the condition of the metropolis. The Commission
published three reports, in which the defective drainage, sewage, and water-supply of London
were discussed in detail; and these have recently been followed by important acts of legislation.

The sanitary idea at length had its triumph in the enactment of the Public Health Act of 1848,
and the appointment of a General Board of Health (of which Mr. Chadwick was a member) to superintend
its administration. Numerous supplemental measures have since been enacted, with the view of
carrying into practical effect the sanitary principles adopted by the Board. Reports continued
to be published, from time to time, full of valuable information: for instance, in reference
to the application of Sewage water to agricultural purposes; on Epidemic Cholera; on Quarantine;
on Drainage; on Public Lodging-houses; and the like. The sanitary movement, in short, became
a "great fact;" and that it is so, we have mainly to thank Edwin Chadwick--the missionary of
the Sanitary idea. It is true he was eventually dismissed from his position of influence at
the Board of Health,--partly through spleen, but chiefly because of his own unaccommodating
nature,--unaccommodating especially to petty local authorities and individual interests opposed
to the public good. But with all thinking and impartial men, his character stands as high as
it ever did. At all events, his works remain.

We do not know a more striking instance than that presented by this gentleman's career, of
the large amount of good which a man strongly possessed by a beneficent idea can accomplish,
provided he have only the force of purpose and perseverance to follow it up. Though Mr. Chadwick
has not been an actual legislator, he has nevertheless been the mover of more wise measures
than any legislator of our time. He created a public opinion in favour of sanitary reform.
He has also impressed the minds of benevolent individuals with the necessity for providing
improved dwellings for the people; and has thus been the indirect means of establishing the
Peabody Dwellings, the Baroness Coutts' Dwellings, and the various Societies for erecting improved
dwellings for the industrial classes.

Edwin Chadwick has thus proved himself to be one of the most useful and practical of public
benefactors. He deserves to be ranked with Clarkson or Howard. His labours have been equally
salutary; some will say that they have been much more so in their results.

Sanitary science may be summed up in the one word--Cleanliness. Pure water and pure air are
its essentials. Wherever there is impurity, it must be washed away and got rid of. Thus sanitary
science is one of the simplest and most intelligible of all the branches of human knowledge.
Perhaps it is because of this, that, like most common things, it has continued to receive so
little attention. Many still think that it requires no science at all to ventilate a chamber,
to clean out a drain, and to keep house and person free from uncleanness.

Sanitary science may be regarded as an unsavoury subject. It deals with dirt and its expulsion--from
the skin, from the house, from the street, from the city. It is comprised in the words--wherever
there is dirt, get rid of it instantly; and with cleanliness let there be a copious supply
of pure water and of pure air for the purposes of human health.

Take, for instance, an unhealthy street, or block of streets, in a large town. There you find
typhus fever constantly present. Cleanse and sewer the street; supply it with pure air and
pure water, and fever is forthwith banished. Is not this a much more satisfactory result than
the application of drugs? Fifty thousand persons, says Mr. Lee, annually fall victims to typhus
fever in Great Britain, originated by causes which are preventible. The result is the same
as if these fifty thousand persons were annually taken out of their wretched dwellings, and
put to death! We are shocked by the news of a murder--by the loss of a single life by physical
causes! And yet we hear, almost without a shudder, the reiterated statement of the loss of
tens of thousands of lives yearly from physical causes in daily operation. The annual slaughter
from preventible causes of typhus fever is double the amount of what was suffered by the allied
armies at the battle of Waterloo! By neglect of the ascertained conditions of healthful living,
the great mass of the people lose nearly half the natural period of their lives. "Typhus,"
says a medical officer, "is a curse which man inflicts upon himself by the neglect of sanitary
arrangements."

