PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 153.

SEPTEMBER 19, 1917.

CHARIVARIA.

There is no truth in the report that one of the most telling lines in the National Anthem is
to be revised so as to read "Confound their Scandiknavish tricks."

       ***

Grave fears are expressed in certain quarters that the Stockholm Conference has been "spurlos
versenkt."

       ***

Someone has stolen the clock from St. Winefride's Church, Wimbledon. We hope that the culprit
has responded to the universal appeals in the newspapers which urged him to put the clock back
on Sunday last.

       ***

An Englishwoman living in the East has a servant-girl who, when told about the War, remarked,
"What war?" Another snub for the KAISER.

       ***

"A Vegetarian" writes to accuse Lord RHONDDA of reducing the price of meat on purpose.

       ***

Tube fares are to be raised. An alternative project of issuing special tickets, entitling the
holder to standing room, was reluctantly abandoned.

       ***

The Thames, says a contemporary, has come into its own again as a holiday resort. Many riparian
owners, on the other hand, are complaining that it has come into theirs.

       ***

A trades union of undertakers' mutes has been formed. Their first act, it is believed, will
be to strike for a fifty-year life.

       ***

Two escaped German prisoners have been arrested at Wokingham by a local grocer. The report
that he charged twopence each for delivery is without foundation.

       ***

At Leith Hill, in Surrey, trees are being felled by a number of unescaped German prisoners.

       ***

"Beans running to seed," says an informative daily paper, "should be picked and the small beans
extracted." But the old custom of lying in wait for them on the return journey and stunning
them with a flail still retains many adherents in the slow-moving countryside.

       ***

"I am the father of sweeps," declared an elderly employer to the West Kent Tribunal. He afterwards
admitted, however, that the secret correspondence of Count LUXBURG had not been brought to
his notice.

       ***

Acting, explained an applicant to the House of Commons' Tribunal, is regarded by many as a
work of national importance. The Tribunal have generously arranged for him to storm a few barns
in Flanders.

       ***

Sixty-eight thousand persons, it is stated, have visited the maze at Hampton Court this season.
Others have been content to stay at home and study the sugar regulations.

       ***

The admission fee to a concert recently held for the benefit of the Southwark Military Hospital
was one egg. None of the gate money, it seems, reached the performers.

       ***

According to the Town Crier of Dover, who has just retired after fifty years' service, town
crying isn't what it was before the War. People will listen to the bombs instead of attending
to the properly constituted official.

       ***

A private in one of the London regiments has translated two hundred and fifty lines of Paradise
Lost into Latin verse during a sixteen-day spell in the trenches. The introduction of some
counter-irritant into our public school curriculum is now thought to be inevitable.

       ***

Further evidence of the success of the U-boat starvation campaign has been thoughtlessly afforded
the German Press by a London newspaper which has announced that burglars are now using practically
nothing but skeleton keys.

       ***

No one has yet found anything that will conquer the wire-worm, says Professor J.R. DUNSTAN.
We feel that the Professor is unduly pessimistic. Has he tried the effect of writing a letter
to The Daily Mail about it?

       ***

Things appear to be settling down in Mexico. Last week only one hundred of General CARRANZA'S
men were annihilated by bandits.

       ***

The Berlin authorities have ordered a "Shaveless day." As a measure of frightfulness this is
doomed to failure against an Army like ours with tanks which will eat their way through all
sorts of entanglements.

       ***

Because an officer omitted to salute him, Field-Marshal VON HINDENBURG stopped his car and
said, "I am HINDENBURG." We understand that the officer accepted the explanation.

       ***

"There is a scarcity of violins," says The Evening News. Some papers never know how to keep
a secret.

       ***

Lundy Island has just been purchased by Mr. AUGUSTUS CHRISTIE, of North Devon. We are relieved
to know it is still on the side of the Allies.

       ***

A grocer at Coalville, Leicestershire, riding a motor-bicycle without lights, is said to have
offered two and a half pounds of sugar to a policeman to say nothing about it. Fortunately
the constable, when he came out of his faint, remembered the number of the bicycle, and the
man was summoned.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OFFICIAL RECTITUDE.

SWEDEN ON THE LUXBURG INCIDENT.

  We cannot think that we're to blame.
    We took the very natural view
  That one who bore a German name
    Would be as open as the blue;
  Would bathe in sunlight, like a lark,
    So different from the worm or weevil,
  Those crawling things that love the dark
    Because their deeds are evil.

  We thought his cables just referred
    To harmless matters such as crops,
  The timber-market's latest word,
    The local fashions in the shops,
  To German trade and German bands,
    And how in Argentine and Sweden
  And all that's left of neutral lands
    To build a German Eden.

  True he employed a secret code,
    But who would guess at guile in that?
  Unless he used the cryptic mode
    He couldn't be a diplomat;
  He wished (we thought) to be discreet,
    Telling his friends how frail and fair is
  The exotic feminine you meet
    In bounteous Buenos Aires.

  Why, then, should mud be thrown so hard
    At Stockholm's faith? She merely meant
  To show a neighbourly regard
    Towards a nice belligerent;
  For peaceful massage she was made;
    Aloof from martial animosities,
  She yearns with fingers gloved in suède
    To temper war's callosities.

  Such courtesy (one would have said)
    Amid the waste of savage strife
  Tends to maintain--what else were dead--
    The sweet amenities of life;
  And seeking ends so pure, so good,
    So innocent, it does surprise her
  To be so much misunderstood
    By all--except the KAISER.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRUDENT ORATOR.

    "The Premier was accompanied by Mrs. Lloyd George and his
    laughter."

    Irish Daily Telegraph.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Our new nippers are beginning to squeeze to some tune in France
    and Belgium."

    Liverpool Daily Post.

Try a little oil.

       *       *       *       *       *

We print (with shame and the consciousness of turpitude) the following letter:--

    "Bed 56, E Block, 11/9/1917.

    "DEAR SIR,--This morning I was reading your edition dated September
    5, 1917. In the 'Charivaria' I saw an article in which you
    proclaimed the North Pole to be the only territory that has not
    had its neutrality violated by the Huns. I beg to draw your
    attention to the South Pole.

    "I remain, yours sincerely,

    "A WOUNDED TOMMY."

       *       *       *       *       *

WASHOUT.

We had hardly settled down to Mess when an orderly, armed with a buff slip, shot through the
door, narrowly missed colliding with the soup, and pulled up by Grigson's chair. Grigson is
our Flight Commander--one of those rugged and impenetrable individuals who seem impervious
to any kind of shock. There is a legend that on one occasion four machine-gun bullets actually
hit him and bounced off, which gave the imitative Hun the idea of armour-plating his machines.

Grigson took the slip and read, slowly and paraphrastically: "Night operations. A machine will
be detailed to leave the ground at 10:30 pip emma and lay three fresh eggs on the railway-station
at ----. At the special request of the G.O.C.R.F.C., Lieutenant Maude, the well-known strafer,
will oblige. Co-operation by B and C Flights."

Lieutenant Maude, commonly known by a loose association of ideas as Toddles, buried a heightened
complexion in a plate of now tepid soup. Someone having pulled him out and wiped him down,
he was understood to remark that he would have preferred longer notice, as it had been his
intention that night to achieve a decisive victory in the Flight ping-pong tournament.

"Oh, but, Toddles," came a voice, "think how pleased old Fritz will be to see you. You'll miss
the garden party, but you'll be in nice time for the fire-works--Verey lights and flaming onions
and pretty searchlights. Don't you love searchlights, Toddles?"

Toddles stretched out an ominous hand towards the siphon, and was only deterred from his fell
intention by the entry of the C.O.

"Oh, Grigson," said the C.O. pleasantly, "the Wing have just rung through to say they want
that raid done at once, so you might get your man up toute suite."

Toddles was exactly halfway through his fish.

Now, though Toddles has never to my knowledge appeared before the C.O. at dead of night attired
in pink silk pyjamas, begging with tears in his eyes to be allowed to perform those duties
which the dawn would in any case impose upon him (this practice is not really very common in
the R.F.C.), he is a thoroughly sound and conscientious little beggar. And, making allowances
for the fallibility of human inventions, and the fact that two other young gentlemen were also
engaged in the congenial task of making structural alterations to the railway station at ----,
Toddles comes out of the affair with an untarnished reputation.

Whether it was that his more fastidious taste in architecture detained him I do not know, but
it was fully ten minutes after the others had landed before we who were watching on the aerodrome
became aware that Toddles was coming home to roost. The usual signals were exchanged, and Toddles
finished up a graceful descent by making violent contact with the ground, bouncing seven times
and knocking over two flares before finally coming to rest. His machine appeared to be leaning
on its left elbow in a slightly intoxicated condition.

"Bust the V strut," said Toddles cheerfully. We assured him that one would hardly notice it.
Grigson meanwhile had been examining the under carriage with scientific care, and turned to
ask him how he had got on.

"Bong," said Toddles, beaming; "absolutely bong. They spotted us, but Archie was off colour."

"Did you see your pills burst?"

Toddles beamed more emphatically than ever. "One in what I took to be the station yard, one
right on the line, and one O.K. ammunition truck; terrific explosion--nearly upset me. Three
perfectly good shots."

So far Toddles' account agreed very fairly with the two we already had.

"Didn't have any trouble with the release gear, I suppose?" said Grigson. "Nasty thing that.
I've known it jam before now."

"Well," answered Toddles, "it did stick a bit, but I just yanked it over and it worked."

"Splendid!" said Grigson brightly. "A nice bit of work, and very thoughtful of you to bring
home such jolly souvenirs."

"Look here," replied Toddles with warmth, "who the devil are you getting at?"

"Nothing; oh, nothing at all."

Grigson moved away towards the Mess. "By the way," he said, "you're quite certain they were
your own shots? I should have a good look at that under carriage if I were you."

We all went down on hands and knees. Lying placidly in the rack with an air of well-merited
ease born of the consciousness that they had, without any effort of their own, avoided a fatiguing
duty, were three large bombs.

"Er--ah--hum," said Toddles. "Now then, Sergeant, hurry up and get this machine back into the
shed!"

And the Sergeant's face was the best joke of all.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Man, handy at vice, been in motor repair shop."--Daily
    Chronicle.

Still, it must not be assumed that life in a garage is necessarily fatal to virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

LXV.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--I feel some hesitation in passing the following story on to you, less from
the fear of what it will divulge to the enemy than from the fear of what it may divulge to
our own people. As far as the enemy is concerned be it stated boldly that the train was going
to Paris and "I" got into it at Amiens. Yes, HINDENBURG, there is a place called Paris and
there is a place called Amiong. Now what are you going to do about it? As far as our own people
are concerned it is asked of them that, if ever they come to read it, they may not inquire
too closely as to who "I" may be.

It is a long train and there is only one dining-car. Those who don't get into the car at Amiens
don't dine; there is accordingly some competition, especially on the part of the military element,
of which the majority is proceeding to Paris on leave and doesn't propose to start its outing
by going without its dinner. Only the very fit or the very cunning survive. Having got in myself
among the latter category I was not surprised to see, among the former category, a large and
powerful Canadian Corporal.

If he can afford to pay for his dinner there is no reason, I suppose, why even a corporal should
not dine. If he can manage to snaffle a seat in the car there is certainly no reason why a
French Commandant should not dine. There is every reason, I imagine, for railway companies
to furnish their dining-cars with those little tables for two which bring it about that a pair
of passengers, who have never seen each other before and have not elected to meet on this occasion,
find themselves together, for a period, on the terms of the most complete and homely intimacy.
Lastly, the attendant had every reason to put the Corporal and the Commandant to dine together,
for there was nowhere else to put either of them.

What would have happened if this had taken place ten years ago, and the French Commandant had
been an English Major? The situation, of course, simply could not have arisen; it would have
been unthinkable. But if it had arisen the train would certainly have stopped for good; probably
the world would have come to an end. As it was, what did happen? Let me say at once that both
the Corporal and the Commandant behaved with a generosity which was entirely delightful; the
Corporal's was pecuniary generosity, the Commandant's generosity of spirit. This was as it
should be, and both were true to type.

Quick though the French are at the uptake, it took the good Commandant just a little while
to settle down to the odd position. This was not the size and shape and manner of man with
whom he was used to take his meals. As an officer one feels one's responsibilities on these
public occasions, and I felt I ought to intervene and to do something to rearrange the general
position. But at the start I caught the Corporal's eye, and there was in it such a convincing
look of "Whatever I may do I mean awfully well," that I just sat still and did nothing.

The awkward pause was over before the soup was finished. Rough good-nature and subtle good
sense soon combined to eliminate arbitrary distinctions. The Commandant won the first credit
by starting a conversation; it was really the only thing to do. Had the Commandant and I been
opposite each other we should probably have dined in polite silence. But the Corporal was one
of those red-faced burly people with whom you have, if you are close to them, either to laugh
or fight.

The Commandant was not inwardly afraid; he was innately polite. He talked pleasantly to his
vis-à-vis. The Corporal, a trifle abashed at first, listened deferentially, but as the good
food enlivened him he ceased to be abashed and became cordial. From cordial he became affable,
from affable affectionate, and from affectionate he passed to that degree of friendship in
which you lean across the dinner-table, tap a man on the shoulder and call him "old pal." Finally,
he insisted upon the Commandant cracking with him a bottle of champagne. I give the Commandant
full marks for not persisting in his refusal.

A draught or two of champagne has, as you may be aware, the effect of developing to an extreme
any friendly feelings you may at the moment happen to possess ...

The train chanced to stop just after dinner was finished, and the Commandant, seizing his opportunity,
hurriedly paid his bill and got into another carriage. My vis-à-vis also left the car, though
I must confess that I had not stood him so much as a glass of beer. I and the Canadian Corporal
were left facing each other, and the position was such that I couldn't avoid his eye. I had
no feelings with regard to him, but I simply could not smile at him, since I do not like champagne.
So I suppose I must have frowned at him; anyhow, he came along and sat down at my table in
order to explain at length that he was not drunk.

He wasn't drunk, and I had never said he was, and I was not in the least interested in his
theme, until he got to the point of what his main reason was for not being drunk. This, I admit,
interested me deeply. "When we get to Parry," said he, "we shall be met by Military Police,
and they will ask to see our papers. And if my papers weren't in order and if I wasn't in order
myself I should be put under arrest and sent back again. And I don't mean to be sent back,
and I have all my papers in order and I'm in order myself." And, dash it all, the fellow was
right, and when we got to the Gare du Nord there were the Military Police as large as life,
and clearly there was no avoiding them.

At first I didn't quite know what to do about it, but a little thought decided me. "There are
your M.P.," I said to the Corporal, as we trooped slowly out of the dining-car. "I'm afraid
I'll have to ask you to come along with me and interview one of them." Giving him no time to
argue, I led him straight to the Police Sergeant and insisted upon this case being dealt with
before all others. "I must ask you, Sergeant, to make this man produce his papers. I have reason
to doubt whether he is in order."

The Corporal began to expostulate, but the Sergeant adopted the none-of-that-I-know-all-about-your-sort
attitude which is so admirable in these officials. The Corporal produced some papers and tendered
them indignantly. The Police Sergeant remained impassively unconvinced, but gave me one fleeting
look, as if he wondered whether I had put him on to a good thing. "There are papers and papers,"
said I, as if I too knew all about the business. "Let us see if they are in order." The Sergeant's
instinct had already told him that the papers were quite in order, and he was all for cutting
the business short and getting out of it as quickly as he could. But I insisted upon the most
minute examination and would not give in and admit my mistake until the Sergeant practically
ordered us both off the station.

Having given the Sergeant to understand that he was to blame for the Corporal's papers being
in order, I allowed myself to be passed on. The Corporal followed me; he wanted an explanation.
When we got outside the station I let him catch me up, because I thought he was entitled to one.

"Will you allow me to ask why you did that, Sir?" he said very indignantly but not rudely.
"You knew that I had my papers, Sir, and that they were in order."

"Yes," I said. "But I knew that my own weren't."

His cheeks suffused with the most jovial red I have ever seen.

"In the very strictest confidence, Corporal," I said, "I haven't any papers."

I didn't know that a human laugh could be so loud. On the whole I think it was a good thing
that we had arrived in Paris after closing time, since otherwise, in spite of my dislike of
the stuff, I'm sure that three more bottles of the most expensive brand would have been cracked.
I should have had to stand one; he would have positively insisted on standing two.

Yours ever,

HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SIGN OF THE TIMES.

    "YOUNG LADY Wants post as Housekeeper to working man."--Halifax
    Evening Courier.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Planers (large letters) Wanted, for machine tool work; good
    bonus; war work; permanent job."--Daily Dispatch.

Pessimist!

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHAT DISABLED SOLDIERS SHOULD KNOW.

    "That there is no such word as 'imossible' in his
    dictionary."--Canadian Paper.

Correct.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "M. Polychromads, Green Chargé d'Affaires, has left London for
    the Hague."--Sunday Times.

It is an unfortunate colour, but with a name like that he can always try one of the others.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The canker of indiscipline and the wine of liberty have
    shaken the Russian Army to its foundations."--"Times" Russian
    Correspondent.

While the tide of new life that was kindled by the torch of revolution seems destined to crumble
into dust.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRIUMPHAL PROGRESS.

There are few phases of the War--subsidiary phases, side-issues, marginalia--more interesting,
I think, than the return of the natives: the triumphant progress, through their old haunts
and among their old friends, of the youths, recently civilians, but now tried and tested warriors;
lately so urban and hesitating and immature, but now so seasoned and confident and of the world.
And particularly I have in mind the return of the soldier to his house of business, and his
triumphant progress through the various departments, gathering admiration and homage and even
wonder. I am not sure that wonder does not come first, so striking can the metamorphosis be.

When he left he was often only a boy. Very likely rather a young terror in his way: shy before
elders, but a desperate wag with his contemporaries. He had a habit of whistling during office
hours; he took too long for dinner, and was much given to descending the stairs four at a time
and shaking the premises, blurring the copying-book and under-stamping the letters. When sent
to the bank, a few yards distant, he was absent for an hour. Cigarettes and late hours may
have given him a touch of pastiness.

To-day, what a change! Tall, well-set-up and bronzed, he is a model of health and strength.
His eyes meet all our eyes frankly; he has done nothing to be ashamed of: there is no unposted
letter in his pocket, no consciousness of a muddled telephone message in his head. To be on
the dreaded carpet of the manager's room was once an ordeal; to-day he can drop cigarette-ash
on it and turn never a hair.

"Oh yes," he says, "he has been under fire. Knows it backwards. Knows the difference in sound
between all the shells. So far he's been very lucky, but, Heavens! the pals he's lost! Terrible
things happen, but one gets numbed--apathetic, you know.

"What does it feel like to go over the top? The first time it's a rotten feeling, but you get
used to that too. War teaches you what you can get used to, by George it does! He wouldn't
have believed it, but there--"

And so on. All coming quite naturally and simply; no swank, no false modesty.

"This is his first leave since he went to France, and he thought he must come to see the firm
first of all. Sad about poor old Parkins, wasn't it? Killed directly. And Smithers' leg--that
was bad too. Rum to see such a lot of girls all over the place, doing the boys' jobs. Well,
well, it's a strange world, and who would have thought all this was going to happen?..."

Such is his conversation on the carpet. In the great clerks' room, where there are now so many
girls, he is a shade more of a dog. The brave, you know, can't be wholly unconscious of the
fair, and as I pass through I catch the same words, but spoken with a slightly more heroic ring.

"Lord, yes, you get used even to going over the top. A rotten feeling the first time, but you
get used to it. That's one of the rum things about war, it teaches you what you can get used
to. You get apathetic, you know. That's the word--apathetic: used to anything. Standing for
hours in water up to your knees. Sleeping among rats." (Here some pretty feminine squeals.)
"It is a fact," he swears to them. "Rats running over you half the night, and now and then
a shell bursting close by."

Standing at his own old desk as he talks, he looks even taller and stronger than before--by
way of contrast, I suppose, and as I pass out I wonder if he will ever be able to bring himself
to resume it.

Having occasion, a little while later, to go downstairs among the warehousemen, where female
labour has not yet penetrated. I hear him again, and notice that his language has become more
free. Safely underground he extends himself a little.

"Over the top?" he is saying. "Yes, three blinking times. What does it feel like the first
time? Well--" and he tells them how it feels, in a way that I can't reproduce here, but vivid
as lightning compared with his upstairs manner. And still he remains the clean forthright youth
who sees his duty a dead sure thing, and does it, even though he may be perplexed now and then.

"So long!" they say, old men-friends and new girl-acquaintances crowding round him as at last
he tears himself away (and watching him from the distance I am inclined to think that, if he
gets through, he will come back to us after all). "So long!" they say. "Take care of yourself."

"You bet!" he replies. "But the question is, Shall I be allowed to? What price the Hun?" And
with a "So long, all!" he is gone.

All over London, in the big towns all over Great Britain, are these triumphant progresses going on.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Wanted, a good Private Wash; good drying
  place."--High Peak News.

We respect the advertiser's dislike of publicity.

       *       *       *       *       *

"JONG."

    (Lines suggested by an Australian aboriginal
    place-name commonly known by its last syllable.)

  Fine names are found upon the map--
    Kanturk and Chirk and Cong,
  Grogtown and Giggleswick and Shap,
    Chowbent and Chittagong;
  But other places, less renowned,
  In richer euphony abound
    Than the familiar throng;
  For instance, there is Beeyah-byyah-bunniga-nelliga-jong.

  In childhood's days I took delight
    In LEAR'S immortal Dong,
  Whose nose was luminously bright,
    Who sang a silvery song.
  He did not terrify the birds
  With strange and unpropitious words
    Of double-edged ontong;
  I'm sure he hailed from Beeyah-byyah-bunniga-nelliga-jong.

  Prince Giglio's bag, the fairy's gift,
    Helped him to right the wrong,
  Encouraged diligence and thrift,
    And "opened with a pong;"
  But though its magic powers were great
  It could not quite ejaculate
    A word so proud and strong
  And beautiful as Beeyah-byyah-bunniga-nelliga-jong.

  I crave no marble pleasure-dome,
    No forks with golden prong;
  Like HORACE, in a frugal home
    I'd gladly rub along,
  Contented with the humblest cot
  Or shack or hut, if it had got
    A name like Billabong,
  Or, better still, like Beeyah-byyah-bunniga-nelliga-jong.

  Sweet is the music of the spheres,
    Majestic is Mong Blong,
  And bland the beverage that cheers,
    Called Sirupy Souchong;
  But sweeter, more inspiring far
  Than tea or peak or tuneful star
    I deem it to belong
  To such a place as Beeyah-byyah-bunniga-nelliga-jong.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR STYLISTS.

    "It is the desire of the Management that nothing of an
    objectionable character shall appear on the stage or in the
    auditorium, and they ask the co-operation of the audience
    in suppressing same by apprising them of anything that may
    escape their notice."

    From a provincial Hippodrome programme.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the evidence in a juvenile larceny case:--

    "The Father: Devils seem to be getting into everyone nowadays,
    not only in boys, but in human beings."

    Devon and Exeter Gazette.

A delicate distinction.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A MIXED LETTER-BAG.

    (Prompted by "Thrifty Colleen's" letter in "The Times"
    of September 12.)

CRUELTY TO VEGETABLES.

SIR,--May I be allowed to protest with all the vigour at my command against the revolting suggestion
that, with the view of making cakes from potatoes they should be first boiled in their skins.
I admit that this is better than that they should be boiled without them, but that is all.
The potato is notoriously a sensitive plant. Personally I regard it more in the light of an
emblem than a vegetable. That it is not necessary as an article of food can be conclusively
proved from the teaching of history, for, as a famous poet happily puts it--

  "In ancient and heroic days,
    The days of Scipios and Catos,
  The Western world pursued its ways
    Triumphantly without potatoes."

If, however, the shortage of cereals demands that potatoes should be used as a substitute for
wheat, I suggest that, instead of being subjected to the barbarous treatment described above,
they should be granted a painless death by chloroform or some other anæsthetic.

I am, Sir, yours truly,

POTATOPHIL.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERIN'S INCUBUS.

SIR,--A great deal of fuss is being made over Irish potato-cakes. Why Irish? The tradition
that the potato is the Irish national vegetable is a hoary fallacy that needs to be exploded
once and for all. It is nothing of the sort. The potato was introduced into the British Isles
by Sir WALTER RALEIGH, a truculent Elizabethan imperialist of the worst type, transplanted
into Ireland by the English garrison, and fostered by them for the impoverishment of the Irish
physique. The deliberations of the National Convention now sitting in Dublin will be doomed
to disaster unless they insist, as the first plank of their programme, on the elimination of
this ill-omened root. If ST. PATRICK had only lived a few centuries later he would have treated
the potato as he did the frogs and snakes.

I am, Sir, Yours rebelliously,

SHANE FINN.

       ***

A DANGEROUS DISH.

SIR,--May I put in a mild caveat against excessive indulgence in potato-cakes, based on an
experience in my undergraduate days at Trinity College, Cambridge, when WHEWELL was Master?
One Sunday I was invited to supper at the MASTER'S, and a dish of potato-cakes formed part
of the collation. WHEWELL was a man of robust physique and hearty appetite, and I noted that
he ate no fewer than thirteen, considerably more than half the total. Whether it was owing
to the unlucky number or the richness of the cakes I cannot say, but the fact remains that
the MASTER was seriously indisposed on the following day and unable to deliver a lecture on
the Stoic Philosophy, to which I had greatly looked forward. I cannot help thinking that PYTHAGORAS,
who enjoined his disciples to "abstain from beans," would, if he were now alive, be inclined
to revise that cryptic precept and bid us "abstain from potatoes," or, at any rate, from over-indulgence
in hot potato-cakes.

I am, Sir, Yours faithfully,

CANTAB.

       ***

WANTED--A NEW NAME.

SIR,--If a thing is to make a success a good name is indispensable. The potato has been handicapped
for centuries by its ridiculous name, which is almost as cumbrous as "cauliflower" and even
more unsightly to the eye. It is futile to talk of a "tuber" since that means a hump or bump
or truffle. No, if you are to get people to eat potato-cakes you must devise a more dignified
and attractive name; and it would be good policy for the FOOD CONTROLLER to offer a large prize
for the best suggestion, Mr. EUSTACE MILES, Mr. EDMUND GOSSE and Mr. HALL CAINE to act as adjudicators.

I am, Sir, Yours obediently,

EARTH-APPLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THOROUGHNESS.

It is generally agreed that the War has given women great chances, and that women for the most
part have taken them. Where they have not, but have preferred frivolity, it is not always their
own fault, but the result of outside pressure. Such a paragraph, for example, as the following,
by "Lady Di," in The Sunday Evening Telegram, is hardly a clarion call to efficiency:--

"This recurrence of night raids has made business brisk in the lingerie salons, especially
among flatland dwellers, for it's quite the thing now to have coffee and cake parties after
a raid, with brandy neat in liqueur glasses for those whose nerves have been shaken. And such
parties do give chances for the exhibition of those dainty garments that usually you have to
admire all by yourself. Which reminds me. Don't forget an anklet and a wristlet of black velvet--the
wristlet on the right and the anklet on the left!"

Since "Lady Di" is out for making the most of every opportunity, and since even she might forget
something, I am minded to help her, two heads being often better than one. Air raids are not
the only unforseen perils. Surely some such paragraph as this would be useful and indicate zeal:--

The escape of German prisoners being of almost daily occurrence, it would be well for all women
who wish never to be taken unawares to be prepared to look their best should one of these creatures
meet them. For nothing is lost by looking nice; indeed it is one's duty to be smart, lest dowdiness
should give him the impression that England really is suffering from the War. A costume which
I have designed to be seen in by escaping German prisoners is a "simple" one-piece (not peace)
frock--which, when built by a real artist, can be so intriguing. Of ninon, for choice, with
a Duvetyn hat. Carry a gold purse and lift the skirt high enough to show the finest silk stockings.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CROSSBILLS.

  A Northern pinewood once we knew,
    My dear, when younger by some lustres,
  Where little painted crossbills flew
    And pecked among the fir-cone clusters;
      They hobnobbed and sidled
        In coats all aflame,
      While young Autumn idled,
        And we did the same.

  They're cutting down the wood, I hear,
    To make it into war material,
  And, where the crossbills came, this year
    Their firs are lying most funereal;
      There's steam saw-mills humming
        And engines at haul,
      A new Winter coming
        And more trees to fall.

