This rivalry between the orator and the occasion is inevitable, and the occasion always yields
to the eminence of the speaker; for a great man is the greatest of occasions. Of course, the
interest of the audience and of the orator conspire. It is well with them only when his influence
is complete; then only they are well pleased. Especially, he consults his power by making instead
of taking his theme. If he should attempt to instruct the people in that which they already
know, he would fail; but, by making them wise in that which he knows, he has the advantage
of the assembly every moment. Napoleon's tactics of marching on the angle of an army, and always
presenting a superiority of numbers, is the orator's secret also.

The several talents which the orator employs, the splendid weapons which went to the equipment
of Demosthenes, of AEchines, of Demades, the natural orator, of Fox, of Pitt, of Patrick Henry,
of Adams, of Mirabeau, deserve a special enumeration. We must not quite omit to name the principal
pieces.

In a court of justice, the audience are impartial; they really wish to sift the statements,
and know what the truth is. And, in the examination of witnesses, there usually leap out, quite
unexpectedly, three or four stubborn words or phrases which are the pith and fate of the business,
which sink into the ear of all parties, and stick there, and determine the cause. All the rest
is repetition and qualifying; and the court and the county have really come together to arrive
at these three or four memorable expressions, which betrayed the mind and meaning of somebody.

In every company, the man with the fact is like the guide you hire to lead your party up a
mountain or through a difficult country. He may not compare with any of the party in mind,
or breeding, or courage, or possessions, but he is much more important to the present need
than any of them. That is what we go to the court-house for,--the statement of the fact, and
the elimination of a general fact, the real relation of all the parties; and it is the certainty
with which, indifferently in any affair that is well handled, the truth stares us in the face,
through all the disguises that are put upon it,--a piece of the well-known human life,--that
makes the interest of a court-room to the intelligent spectator.

I remember, long ago, being attracted by the distinction of the counsel, and the local importance
of the cause, into the court-room. The prisoner's counsel were the strongest and cunningest
lawyers in the Commonwealth. They drove the attorney for the State from corner to corner, taking
his reasons from under him, and reducing him to silence, but not to submission. When hard-pressed,
he revenged himself, in his turn, on the judge, by requiring the court to define what salvage
was. The court, thus pushed, tried words, and said everything it could think of to fill the
time, supposing cases, and describing duties of insurers, captains, pilots, and miscellaneous
sea-officers that are or might be,--like a schoolmaster puzzled by a hard sum, who reads the
context with emphasis. But all this flood not serving the cuttle-fish to get away in, the horrible
shark of the district-attorney being still there, grimly awaiting with his "The court must
define,"--the poor court pleaded its inferiority. The superior court must establish the law
for this, and it read away piteously the decisions of the Supreme Court, but read to those
who had no pity. The judge was forced at last to rule something, and the lawyers saved their
rogue under the fog of a definition. The parts were so well cast and discriminated, that it
was an interesting game to watch. The government was well enough represented. It was stupid,
but it had a strong will and possession, and stood on that to the last.