JACK IN THE FORECASTLE

or

INCIDENTS IN THE EARLY LIFE OF HAWSER MARTINGALE

By John Sherburne Sleeper

(1794-1878)

Chapter I. FAREWELL TO NEW ENGLAND

I was born towards the close of the last century, in a village pleasantly situated on the banks
of the Merrimack, in Massachusetts. For the satisfaction of the curious, and the edification
of the genealogist, I will state that my ancestors came to this country from England in the
middle of the seventeenth century. Why they left their native land to seek an asylum on this
distant shore whether prompted by a spirit of adventure, or with a view to avoid persecution
for religion's sake is now unknown. Even if they "left their country for their country's good,"
they were undoubtedly as respectable, honest, and noble, as the major part of those needy ruffians
who accompanied William the Conqueror from Normandy in his successful attempt to seize the
British crown, and whose descendants now boast of their noble ancestry, and proudly claim a
seat in the British House of Peers.

From my earliest years I manifested a strong attachment to reading; and as matters relating
to ships and sailors captivated my boyish fancy, and exerted a magic influence on my mind,
the "Adventures of Robinson Crusoe," "Peter Wilkins," "Philip Quarle," and vagabonds of a similar
character, were my favorite books. An indulgence in this taste, and perhaps an innate disposition
to lead a wandering, adventurous life, kindled in my bosom a strong desire, which soon became
a fixed resolution, TO GO TO SEA. Indeed, this wish to go abroad, to encounter dangers on the
mighty deep, to visit foreign countries and climes, to face shipwrecks and disasters, became
a passion. It was my favorite theme of talk by day, and the subject of my dreams by night.
As I increased in years my longing for a sailor's life also increased; and whenever my schoolfellows
and myself were conversing about the occupations we should select as the means of gaining a
livelihood hereafter, I invariably said, "I will be a sailor."

Had my parents lived, it is possible that this deep-seated inclination might have been thwarted;
that my destiny might have taken another shape. But my father died while I was quite young,
and my mother survived him but a few years. She lived long enough, however, to convince me
that there is nothing more pure, disinterested, and enduring than a mother's love, and that
those who are deprived of this blessing meet at the outset of their pilgrimage a misfortune
which can never be remedied. Thus, before I had numbered fifteen years, I found myself thrown
a waif on the waters of life, free to follow the bent of my inclination to become a sailor.

Fortune favored my wishes. Soon after the death of my parents, a relation of my mother was
fitting out a vessel in Portsmouth, N.H., for a voyage to Demarara; and those who felt an interest
in my welfare, conceiving this a good opportunity for me to commence my salt-water career,
acceded to my wishes, and prevailed on my relative, against his inclination, to take me with
him as a cabin boy.

With emotions of delight I turned my back on the home of my childhood, and gayly started off
to seek my fortune in the world, with no other foundation to build upon than a slender frame,
an imperfect education, a vivid imagination, ever picturing charming castles in the air, and
a goodly share of quiet energy and perseverance, modified by an excess of diffidence, which
to this day I have never been able to overcome.

I had already found in a taste for reading a valuable and never-failing source of information
and amusement. This attachment to books has attended me through life, and been a comfort and
solace in difficulties, perplexities, and perils. My parents, also, early ingrafted on my mind
strict moral principles; taught me to distinguish between right and wrong; to cherish a love
of truth, and even a chivalric sense of honor and honesty. To this, perhaps, more than to any
other circumstance, may be attributed whatever success and respectability has attended my career
through life. It has enabled me to resist temptations to evil with which I was often surrounded,
and to grapple with and triumph over obstacles that might otherwise have overwhelmed me.

When I reached Portsmouth, my kinsman, Captain Tilton, gave me an ungracious reception. He
rebuked me severely for expressing a determination to go to sea.

"Go to sea!" he exclaimed in a tone of the most sovereign contempt. "Ridiculous! You are a
noodle for thinking of such a thing. A sailor's life is a dog's life at best! Besides, you
are not fit for a sailor, either by habits, taste, or constitution. With such a pale face,
and slight figure, and sheepish look, how can you expect to fight the battle of life on the
ocean, and endure all the crosses, the perils, and the rough-and-tumble of a sailor's life?
Hawser, you are not fit for a sailor. You had much better go home and try something else."

Finding me unconvinced by his arguments, and unshaken in my determination, he concluded his
remarks by asking me abruptly the startling question, "Are you ready to die?"

I replied, that I had not bestowed much thought on the subject; but frankly admitted I was
not altogether prepared for such a solemn event.

"Then, Hawser," said he with marked emphasis, "if you are not prepared to die to die of YELLOW
FEVER don't go to Demarara at this season of the year!" And he left the room abruptly, apparently
disgusted at my obstinacy.

On the following day, Captain Tilton took me on board the brig Dolphin. I did not mark her
imperfections, which were many. She was a vessel, bound on a voyage to a foreign port, and,
therefore, I was charmed with her appearance. In my eyes she was a model of excellence; as
beautiful and graceful as the celebrated barge in which Cleopatra descended the Cyndnus to
meet Mark Antony.

The captain led me to the mate, who was busily engaged about the decks. "Mr. Thompson," said
he, "here is a lad who wants to go to sea, and I have foolishly engaged to take him as a cabin
boy. Keep him on board the brig; look sharp after him; don't let him have an idle moment; and,
if possible, make him useful in some way until the vessel is ready for sea."

Mr. William Thompson was a worthy man, who subsequently became a shipmaster and merchant of
great respectability in Portsmouth. He treated me with consideration and kindness, and took
pleasure in teaching me the details of the business I was about to undertake.

During the few days in which the Dolphin lay at the wharf I gained much nautical information.
I learned the names of the different parts of a vessel; of the different masts, and some portions
of the rigging. But the great number of ropes excited my admiration. I thought a lifetime would
hardly suffice to learn their different names and purposes. I accomplished successfully the
feat of going aloft; and one memorable day, assisted the riggers in "bending sails," and received
an ill-natured rebuke from a crusty old tar, for my stupidity in failing to understand him
when he told me to "pass the gasket" while furling the fore-topsail. Instead of passing the
gasket around the yard, I gravely handed him a marlinspike!

In the course of my desultory reading, I had learned that vessels at sea were liable to "spring
a leak," which was one of the most dreaded perils of navigation; and I had a vague notion that
the hold of a ship was always so arranged that a leak could be discovered and stopped. I was,
therefore, not a little puzzled when I found the hold of the Dolphin was crammed with lumber;
not a space having been left large enough to stow away the ghost of a belaying pin. Finding
the captain in a pleasant mood one day, I ventured to ask him what would be the consequence
if the brig should spring a leak in her bottom.

"Spring a leak in her bottom!" he replied, in his gruff manner; "why, we should go to the bottom,
of course."

The brig was now ready for sea. The sailors were shipped, and I watched them closely as they
came on board, expecting to find the noble-looking, generous spirited tars I had become so
familiar with in books. It happened, however, that three out of the five seamen who composed
the crew were "old English men-of-war's-men," and had long since lost any refinement of character
or rectitude of principle they originally possessed. They were brought on board drunk by the
landlord with whom they boarded; for the "old tars" of those days fifty years ago had no homes;
when on shore all they cared for was a roof to shelter them, and plenty of grog, in which they
would indulge until their money was gone, when they would go to sea and get more.

Now ensued the bustle incident to such occasions. Captain William Boyd, who had volunteered
to pilot the brig down the harbor, came on board; the sails were hoisted; the deck was crowded
with persons to take leave of their friends, or gratify a morbid curiosity; and what with the
numerous questions asked, the running to and fro, the peremptory commands of the mate, the
unmusical singing and shouting of the crew as they executed the various orders, together with
the bawling of the handcartmen and truckmen as they brought down the last of the trunks, chests,
stores, and provisions, my brain was in a whirl of excitement; I hardly knew whether I stood
on my head or my heels.

At last the captain came down the wharf, accompanied by Joshua Haven, one of the owners, and
some friends, who had made arrangements to proceed in the brig so far as the mouth of the harbor.
The single rope which connected the Dolphin with the shore was cast loose; the pilot gave some
orders; that were Greek to me, in a loud and energetic tone; the men on the wharf gave three
cheers, which were heartily responded to by the temporary passengers and crew; and with a pleasant
breeze from the westward, we sailed merrily down the river.

Some few persons lingered on the wharf, and continued for a time to wave their handkerchiefs
in token of an affectionate farewell to their friends. I seemed to stand alone while these
interesting scenes were enacted. I took no part in the warm greetings or the tender adieus.
I had bidden farewell to my friends and relatives in another town some days before; and no
one took sufficient interest in my welfare to travel a few miles, look after my comforts, and
wish me a pleasant voyage as I left my native land.

Although from the reception I had met with I had little reason to expect present indulgences
or future favors from my kinsman who commanded the brig, I did not regret the step I had taken.
On the contrary, my bosom bounded with joy when the last rope was severed, and the vessel on
whose decks I proudly stood was actually leaving the harbor of Portsmouth, under full sail,
bound to a foreign port. This was no longer "the baseless fabric of a vision." The dream of
my early years had come to pass; and I looked forward with all the confidence of youth to a
bold and manly career, checkered it might be with toil and suffering, but replete with stirring
adventure, whose wild and romantic charms would be cheaply won by wading through a sea of troubles.
I now realized the feeling which has since been so well described by the poet:

     "A life on the ocean wave,
     A home on the rolling deep,
     Where the scattered waters rave,
     And the winds their revels keep.

     "Like an eagle caged, I pine
     On this dull, unchanging shore;
     O, give me the flashing brine,
     The spray, and the tempest's roar."

Chapter II. INCIDENTS AT SEA

The Dolphin was what is termed, in nautical parlance, an "hermaphrodite brig," of about one
hundred and fifty tons burden; and had been engaged, for some twelve or fifteen years, in the
West India trade. This vessel could not with propriety be regarded as a model of grace and
beauty, but gloried in bluff bows, a flat bottom, and a high quarter-deck; carried a large
cargo for her tonnage, and moved heavily and reluctantly through the water.

On this particular voyage, the hold of the brig, as I have already stated, was filled with
lumber; and thirty-five thousand feet of the same article were carried on deck, together with
an indefinite quantity of staves, shooks, hoop poles, and other articles of commerce too numerous
to mention. On this enormous deck-load were constructed, on each side, a row of sheep-pens,
sufficiently spacious to furnish with comfortable quarters some sixty or seventy sheep; and
on the pens, ranged along in beautiful confusion, was an imposing display of hen-coops and
turkey-coops, the interstices being ingeniously filled with bundles of hay and chunks of firewood.
The quarter-deck was "lumbered up" with hogsheads of water, and casks of oats and barley, and
hen-coops without number.

With such a deck-load, not an unusually large one in those days, the leading trucks attached
to the fore-rigging were about half way between the main deck and the foretop. It was a work
of difficulty and danger to descend from the deck-load to the forecastle; but to reach the
foretop required only a hop, skip, and a jump. The locomotive qualities of this craft, misnamed
the Dolphin, were little superior to those of a well constructed raft; and with a fresh breeze
on the quarter, in spite of the skill of the best helmsman, her wake was as crooked as that
of the "wounded snake," referred to by the poet, which "dragged its slow length along."

It was in the early part of July, in the year 1809, that the brig Dolphin left Portsmouth,
bound on a voyage to Dutch Guiana, which at that time, in consequence of the malignant fevers
that prevailed on the coast, was not inaptly termed "the grave of American seamen." The crew
consisted of the captain and mate, five sailors, a green hand to act as cook, and a cabin boy.
There was also a passenger on board, a young man named Chadwick, who had been residing in Portsmouth,
and was going to Demarara, in the hope which fortunately for him was not realized of establishing
himself in a mercantile house.

The forecastle being, for obvious reasons, untenable during the outward passage, these ten
individuals, when below deck, were stowed away in the cabin and steerage, amid boxes, bales,
chests, barrels, and water casks, in a manner somewhat miscellaneous, and not the most commodious
or comfortable. Indeed, for several days after we left port, the usual and almost only access
to the cabin was by the skylight; and those who made the cabin their home, were obliged to
crawl on all fours over the heterogeneous mass of materials with which it was crowded, in order
to reach their berths!

The owners of the brig must have calculated largely on favorable weather during the passage;
for had we experienced a gale on the coast, or fallen in with the tail-end of a hurricane in
the tropics, the whole deck-load would have been swept away, and the lives of the ship's company
placed in imminent peril. The weather, however, proved remarkably mild, and the many inconveniences
to which the crew were subjected were borne with exemplary patience, and sometimes even regarded
as a capital joke.

We passed the Whale's Back at the mouth of the Piscataqua, and the Isles of Shoals loomed up
through the hazy atmosphere; and although the wind was light, and the sea apparently smooth,
the brig began to have a motion an awkward, uneasy motion for which I could not account, and
which, to my great annoyance, continued to increase as we left the land. I staggered as I crossed
the quarter-deck, and soon after we cleared the harbor, came near pitching overboard from the
platform covering the sheep-pens. My head was strangely confused, and a dizziness seized me,
which I in vain struggled to shake off. My spirits, so gay and buoyant as we sailed down the
harbor, sunk to zero.

At length I could not resist the conviction that I was assailed with symptoms of seasickness,
a malady which I had always held in contempt, believing it to exist more in imagination than
in fact, and which I was determined to resist, as unsailor-like and unmanly. Other symptoms
of a less equivocal description, soon placed the character of my illness beyond a doubt. My
woe-begone looks must have betrayed my feelings, for one of the men told me, with a quizzical
leer, that old Neptune always exacted toll in advance from a green hand for his passage over
the waters.

Mr. Thompson, who seemed to pity my miserable condition, gravely assured me that exercise was
a capital thing as a preventive or cure for seasickness, and advised me to try the pump. I
followed his advice: a few strokes brought up the bilge water, than which nothing at that time
could have been more insufferably nauseous! I left the pump in disgust, and retiring to the
after part of the quarter-deck, threw myself down on a coil of rope, unable longer to struggle
with my fate. There I remained unnoticed and uncared for for several hours, when, the wind
having changed, the rope which formed my bed, and proved to be the "main sheet," was wanted,
and I was unceremoniously ejected from my quarters, and roughly admonished to "go below and
keep out of the way!" I crawled into the cabin, and, stretched on some boxes, endeavored to
get a little sleep; but the conglomeration of smells of a most inodorous character, which,
as it seemed to my distempered fancy, pervaded every part of the vessel, prevented my losing
a sense of suffering in sleep.

As I lay musing on the changes which a few days had wrought in my condition, and, borne down
by the pangs of seasickness, was almost ready to admit that there was prose as well as poetry
in a sailor's life, I was startled by a terrific noise, the announcement, I supposed, of some
appalling danger. I heard distinctly three loud knocks on the deck at the entrance of the steerage,
and then a sailor put his head down the companion-way, and in a voice loud, cracked, and discordant,
screamed in a tone which I thought must have split his jaws asunder, "LA-AR-BO-A-RD W-A-T-CH
A-H-O-O-Y."

In spite of my sickness I started from my uncomfortable resting place, scrambled into the steerage,
and by a roll of the brig was tumbled under the steps, and suffered additional pains and apprehensions
before I ascertained that the unearthly sounds which had so alarmed me were nothing more than
the usual mode of "calling the watch," or in other words, the man with the unmusical voice
had gently hinted to the sleepers below that "turn-about was fair play," and they were wanted
on deck.

To add to my troubles, the wind in the morning shifted to the south-east, and thus became a
head wind, and the old brig became more restless than ever, and pitched and rolled to leeward
occasionally with a lurch, performing clumsy antics in the water which my imagination never
pictured, and which I could neither admire nor applaud.

For several days we were beating about Massachusetts Bay and St. George's Bank, making slow
progress on our voyage. During that time I was really seasick, and took little note of passing
events, being stretched on the deck, a coil of rope, or a chest, musing on the past or indulging
in gloomy reflections in regard to the future. Seasickness never paints ideal objects of a
roseate hue. Although I was not called upon for much actual work, I received no sympathy for
my miserable condition; for seasickness, like the toothache, is seldom fatal, notwithstanding
it is as distressing a malady as is found in the catalogue of diseases, and one for which no
preventive or cure, excepting time, has yet been discovered. Time is a panacea for every ill;
and after the lapse of ten or twelve days, as the brig was drawing towards the latitude of
Bermuda, my sickness disappeared as suddenly as it commenced; and one pleasant morning I threw
aside my shore dress, and with it my landsman's habits and feelings. I donned my short jacket
and trousers, and felt every inch a sailor!

The Bermudas are a cluster of small islands and rocks lying in the track of vessels bound from
New England to the West Indies. The climate is mild, and the atmosphere remarkably salubrious,
while the trace of ocean in the vicinity has long been noted for severe squalls at every season
of the year. A squall at sea no unusual occurrence is often the cause of anxiety, being attended
with danger. Sometimes the rush of wind is so violent that nothing will resist its fury, and
before the alarm is given and the canvas reduced, the masts are blown over the side or the
vessel capsized. Therefore, on the approach of a squall, a vigilant officer will be prepared
for the worst, by shortening sail and making other arrangements for averting the threatened danger.

I hardly knew how it happened, but one afternoon when we were a little to the northward of
Bermuda, and should have kept a lookout for squalls, we were favored with a visit from one
of a most energetic character. Its sudden approach from under the lee was either unnoticed
or unheeded until the captain accidentally came on deck. He was instantly aware of the perilous
condition of the brig, for the "white caps" of the waves could be distinctly seen, and even
the roar of the wind could be heard as it rushed towards us over the water. Before any orders
could be executed before the sails could be taken in, the yards braced round, or even the helm
shifted, the tempest broke over us. The rain fell in torrents, the wind blew with tremendous
violence, and a scene of indescribable confusion ensued.

The captain stood near the companion-way, much excited, giving directions with energy and rapidity.
"Hard up your helm!" said he; "Hard up! Lower away the mainsail! Let go the peak halliards!
Why DON'T you put the helm hard up? Let go all the halliards fore and aft! Clew down the fore-topsail!
Haul in the starboard braces! There steady with the helm!"

The mate and sailors were running about the decks, looking frightened and bewildered, eagerly
casting loose some ropes, and pulling desperately upon others; the sails were fluttering and
shaking, as if anxious to quit the spars and fly away to unknown regions; the brig felt the
force of the wind, and for a few moments was pressed over on her side until her beam ends were
in the water; and what with the shouting of the captain, the answering shouts of the mate,
the unearthly cries of the sailors, as they strove to execute the orders so energetically given;
the struggling of the canvas, the roaring of the winds and the waves, the creaking of the cordage,
the beating of the rain against the decks, and the careening of the vessel, it is not remarkable
that I felt somewhat alarmed and excited, as well as deeply interested in witnessing for the
first time in my life A SQUALL AT SEA.

The squall was of short duration; although the rain continued for a time, the wind, after a
few minutes, gave but little inconvenience. In the course of an hour the murky clouds had disappeared,
the sun shone out brightly as it was sinking towards the horizon, and the brig was again pursuing
her way towards her destined port, urged slowly along by a light but favorable breeze.

