"What;--John Eames!"

"Yes, John Eames. And I wish heartily for his sake that he had won her regard before she had
met that rascal whom you had to stay down at your house."

"A man cannot help these things, De Guest," said the squire.

"No, no, no! There are such men about the world, and it is impossible to know them at a glance.
He was my nephew's friend, and I am not going to say that my nephew was in fault. But I wish,--I
only say that I wish,--she had first known what are this young man's feelings towards her."

"But she might not have thought of him as you do."

"He is an uncommonly good-looking young fellow; straight made, broad in the chest, with a good,
honest eye, and a young man's proper courage. He has never been taught to give himself airs
like a dancing monkey; but I think he's all the better for that."

"But it's too late now, De Guest."

"No, no; that's just where it is. It mustn't be too late! That child is not to lose her whole
life because a villain has played her false. Of course she'll suffer. Just at present it wouldn't
do, I suppose, to talk to her about a new sweetheart. But, Dale, the time will come; the time
will come;--the time always does come."

"It has never come to you and me," said the squire, with the slightest possible smile on his
dry cheeks. The story of their lives had been so far the same; each had loved, and each had
been disappointed, and then each had remained single through life.

"Yes, it has," said the earl, with no slight touch of feeling and even of romance in what he
said. "We have retricked our beams in our own ways, and our lives have not been desolate. But
for her,--you and her mother will look forward to see her married some day."

"I have not thought about it."

"But I want you to think about it. I want to interest you in this fellow's favour; and in doing
so, I mean to be very open with you. I suppose you'll give her something?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," said the squire almost offended at an inquiry of such a nature.

"Well, then, whether you do or not, I'll give him something," said the earl. "I shouldn't have
ventured to meddle in the matter had I not intended to put myself in such a position with reference
to him as would justify me in asking the question." And the peer as he spoke drew himself up
to his full height. "If such a match can be made, it shall not be a bad marriage for your niece
in a pecuniary point of view. I shall have pleasure in giving to him; but I shall have more
pleasure if she can share what I give."

"She ought to be very much obliged to you," said the squire.

"I think she would be if she knew young Eames. I hope the day may come when she will be so.
I hope that you and I may see them happy together, and that you too may thank me for having
assisted in making them so. Shall we go in to Lady Julia now?" The earl had felt that he had
not quite succeeded; that his offer had been accepted somewhat coldly, and had not much hope
that further good could be done on that day, even with the help of his best port wine.

"Half a moment," said the squire. "There are matters as to which I never find myself able to
speak quickly, and this certainly seems to be one of them. If you will allow me I will think
over what you have said, and then see you again."

"Certainly, certainly."

"But for your own part in the matter, for your great generosity and kind heart, I beg to offer
you my warmest thanks." Then the squire bowed low, and preceded the earl out of the room.

