Rubbing his eyes, he looked about him, and the more he looked the more he wondered, at the
alterations which appeared in the face of the country. "Bless my soul and body," said the good
father, "I saw the stars changing last night, but here is a change!" Doubting his senses he
looked again. The hills bore the same majestic outline as on the preceding day, and the lake
spread itself beneath his view in the same tranquil beauty, and was studded with the same number
of islands; but every smaller feature in the landscape was strangely altered;--what had been
naked rocks, were now clothed with holly and arbutus. Whole woods had disappeared, and waste
places had become cultivated fields; and to complete the work of enchantment the very season
itself seemed changed. In the rosy dawn of a summer's morning he had left the monastery of
Innisfallen, and he now felt in every sight and sound the dreariness of winter; the hard ground
was covered with withered leaves; icicles depended from leafless branches; he heard the sweet
low note of the robin, who familiarly approached him; and he felt his fingers numbed by the
nipping frost. Father Cuddy found it rather difficult to account for such sudden transformations,
and to convince himself it was not the illusion of a dream, he was about to arise, when, lo!
he discovered that both his knees were buried at least six inches in the solid stone; for notwithstanding
all these changes, he had never altered his devout position.

Cuddy was now wide awake, and felt, when he got up, his joints sadly cramped, which it was
only natural they should be, considering the hard texture of the stone, and the depth his knees
had sunk into it. The great difficulty was, to explain how, in one night, summer had become
winter-- whole woods had been cut down, and well-grown trees had sprouted up. The miracle,
nothing else could he conclude it to be, urged him to hasten his return to Innisfallen, where
he might learn some explanation of these marvellous events.

Seeing a boat moored within reach of the shore, he delayed not, in the midst of such wonders,
to seek his own bark, but, seizing the oars, pulled stoutly towards the island; and here new
wonders awaited him.

Father Cuddy waddled, as fast as cramped limbs could carry his rotund corporation, to the gate
of the monastery, where he loudly demanded admittance.

"Holloa! whence come you, master monk, and what's your business?" demanded a stranger who occupied
the porter's place.

"Business--my business!" repeated the confounded Cuddy, "why do you not know me? Has the wine
arrived safely?"

"Hence, fellow," said the porter's representative in a surly tone, "nor think to impose on
me with your monkish tales."

"Fellow!" exclaimed the father, "mercy upon us that I should be so spoken to at the gate of
my own house! Scoundrel!" cried Cuddy, raising his voice, "do you not see my garb--my holy garb?--"

"Aye, fellow," replied he of the keys, "the garb of laziness and filthy debauchery, which has
been expelled from out these walls. Know you not, idle knave, of the suppression of this nest
of superstition, and that the abbey lands and possessions were granted in August last to Master
Robert Collan, by our Lady Elizabeth, sovereign queen of England, and paragon of all beauty,
whom God preserve!"

"Queen of England," said Cuddy; "there never was a sovereign queen of England; this is but
a piece with the rest. I saw how it was going with the stars last night--the world's turned
upside down. But surely this is Innisfallen island, and I am the Father Cuddy who yesterday
morning went over to the abbey of Irelagh respecting the tun of wine. Do you know me now?"

"Know you! how should I know you?" said the keeper of the abbey; "yet true it is, that I have
heard my grandmother, whose mother remembered the man, often speak of the fat Father Cuddy
of Innisfallen, who made a profane and godless ballad in praise of fried eggs, of which he
and his vile crew knew more than they did of the word of God, and who, being drunk, it was
said, tumbled into the lake one night and was drowned; but that must have been a hundred, aye,
more than a hundred years since."

"'Twas I who composed that song, in praise of Margery's fried eggs, which is no profane and
godless ballad. No other Father Cuddy than myself ever belonged to Innisfallen," earnestly
exclaimed the holy man. "A hundred years! What was your great grandmother's name?"

"She was a Mahony of Dunlow, Margaret ni Mahony; and my grandmother--."

"What, merry Margery of Dunlow your great grandmother!" shouted Cuddy; "St. Brandon help me!
the wicked wench, with that tempting bottle--why 'twas only last night--a hundred years--your
great grandmother said you? Mercy on us, there has been a strange torpor over me. I must have
slept all this time!"

That Father Cuddy had done so, I think is sufficiently proved by the changes which occurred
during his nap. A reformation, and a serious one it was for him, had taken place. Eggs fried
by the pretty Margery were no longer to be had in Innisfallen, and, with heart as heavy as
his footsteps, the worthy man directed his course towards Dingle, where he embarked in a vessel
on the point of sailing for Malaga. The rich wine of that place had of old impressed him with
a high respect for its monastic establishments, in one of which he quietly wore out the remnant
of his days.

The stone impressed with the mark of Father Cuddy's knees may be seen to this day. Should any
incredulous persons doubt my story, I request them to go to Killarney, where Clough na Cuddy--so
is the stone called--remains in Lord Kenmare's park, an indisputable evidence of the fact;
and Spillane, the bugle man, will be able to point it out to them, as he did to me-- Literary
Souvenir.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY COMMON-PLACE BOOK.

No. XX.

       *       *       *       *       *

CEREMONY OF A GIRL TAKING THE VEIL.

The convent of the Esperanza enclosed within its gloomy walls one of the fairest forms that
nature ever moulded. Her name was Claudia; she had just completed her sixteenth year, and now
shone forth in all the bloom of health and beauty. Her full black eyes, and her long dark hair,
which, partly concealed by her religious dress of a pensioner, escaped in flowing ringlets
over her snowy shoulders, embellishing a countenance whence beamed such harmony of features
and enchanting delicacy of expression, as indicated the purity and peace that reigned within.
The Esperanza soon became my favourite spot, and I felt convinced nature never formed this
angel to be immured within the walls of a convent; nor would she have been destined to pass
the remainder of her life in its obscure recesses, but for the unnatural avarice of her parents--a
custom still too prevalent, to secure the wealth of a family to one branch.

During my stay in this town, I had an opportunity of witnessing the ceremony of a girl taking
the habit of a nun. After mass, the grate of the chapel of the Esperanza was thrown open, and
there appeared all the holy sisters dressed in black. The girl alone who was about to take
the habit was in white; and, in front of all the others, knelt down before a table, on which
was placed the cross. The abbate, from the outside, now addressed her in a long extempore charge,
in which he pointed out the duties of the situation she was about to enter, and forcibly set
forth the advantages of it; while he painted, in the strongest and most seducing colours, the
superior happiness of renouncing the profane world, and of passing her time in a quiet and
religious way, alone devoted to the service of her Maker. She was not more than twenty years
of age, and, during the whole ceremony, her countenance, which was pleasing, bore the evident
marks of inward satisfaction and holy veneration. The nuns, who before had been standing round
the chapel, each holding a burning taper, now tenderly embraced their intended sister, and
placed the crown of virginity upon her temples, when an anathema, was with great solemnity,
pronounced against all who should attempt to make her break her vows. The impressive ceremony
which thus excludes youth and beauty in a cloister, closes with the solemn notes of the organ,
accompanied by the harmonious voices of the nuns as they conduct their new sister to her lonely
cell.

This awful solemnity wears a supernatural grandeur. The gloom of the chapel is faintly relieved
by the tapers of the sisters; the vaulted roof is just discernible in a pale blue light, rendered
terrific by the splendour of the altar blazing with a hundred illuminated torches; while the
lofty peals of the deep-toned organ, swell round the echoing cloisters with "Il cantar che
nell' anima si sente;" and the "rapt senses are confounded in idolatrous wonder."

Peninsular Sketches.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATIN AND GREEK LANGUAGES.

It is supposed by many that the only object in learning the Latin and Greek languages is, that
the learner may be able to translate them, and to understand the authors who have written in
those languages, with as much facility as he can understand those who write in his own. If
this were really the only object, then every plan for expediting the acquisition would be received
with grateful approbation. Yet if this were the sole object, how superfluous to the greater
number of learners the labour of the acquisition, for there is not a single idea expressed
by the ancients and yet to be found, which has not been translated in our own language. The
end of learning these languages then must be something beyond, and if this farther object be
not considered, the education must be defective.

Scargill's Essays.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE MOON, IN VIEW OF THE SEA.

  There is a blush upon thy face to-night
  Which sheds around a luxury of light!
  Wherefore, oh, Moon, art thou so brightly fair!
  Would'st thou some new Endymion ensnare?
  Each sparkling wave, as it receives thy rays,
  Seems quivering and thrilling at thy gaze;
  And gently murmurs, whilst the God below
  Feels through his frame the universal glow,
  And heaves his breast majestical for thee!
  Cease, cease, to look on us so lovingly,
  but in thy silv'ry veil still half conceal
  Thy modest loveliness, nor more reveal;
  For oh! fair queen, no mortal now can soar,
  Or, love, as thy fond shepherd did of yore!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING'S FEET-BEARER.

During the ancient days of Welsh royalty, among the twenty-four ranks of servants that attended
at court, was one called "the king's feet-bearer." This was a young gentleman, whose duty it
was to sit upon the floor with his back towards the fire, and hold the king's feet in his bosom
all the time he sat at table, to keep them warm and comfortable. A piece of state and of luxury
unknown in modern times.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONTPELLIER.

Within the last century it has been fashionable in England to give the name of Montpellier
to many places, new streets, rows of houses, terraces, and gardens, where the situation has
been supposed to have been at all favourable; indeed, there seems to be something attractive
in the very sound of the word Montpellier; but the original city has much fallen off, and is
not so much frequented now, but on account of its former fame, and the assemblage of the States
of Languedoc during the winter, when the noble families still maintain their old exemplary
hospitality. Joseph Scaliger is known to have asserted, that if he had his choice where to
end his days, of all cities in the world he should prefer Montpellier; but since that time
physicians have agreed that there has been a remarkable change of climate; and from my own
observation I must declare, that I knew several consumptive patients who seemed to have recovered
at Marseilles, and almost all relapsed again after they had remained for some time at Montpellier.

Cradock's Literary Memoirs.

       *       *       *       *       *

FASHION.

Pignotte places the temple of this deity in the moon; and it may therefore be presumed that
it was the walls of this edifice that Professor Grinthausen, of Munich, lately mistook for
an immense fortress. The error of the German astronomer would seem to corroborate the hypothesis
of the Italian poet, who doubtless did not assign that local habitation to the goddess of fashion
without mature reflection. Indeed, it cannot be denied that that planet possesses some mysterious
influence over female fashions, analogous to that which it has over the tides; hence the cause,
for we really know of none better, of monthly fashions. Let not however any malicious wit suppose
that the moon has anything whatever to do with monthly periodicals!

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO CHOOSE A RELIGION.

Karamsin, in his history of Russia, relates that when the inhabitants of Livonia were first
converted from Paganism to Christianity, they hesitated whether they should adopt the faith
of the Russian or German church; at length in their extreme perplexity, they determined to
decide their doubts in a most summary manner by casting lots, when chance prevailed in favour
of the latter. There are many cases in which this example might be followed very advantageously,
thereby saving a great deal of time and vexation to the parties; for instance, it might be
very beneficially introduced into the court of chancery, for then let the decision fall out
as it might, the suitors would resign themselves to it as the decree of fate, as they must
do even in the end after waiting half their lives. If the adage of Bis dat qui cito dat, be
true, it is no less certain that he who denies at once, at length gives us something, for he
gives us time.

       *       *       *       *       *

RELIGIOUS BOOKS.

There is an amusing anecdote related of a country curate, who having published a volume of
sermons, in which he more particularly pointed out the dangers of a lax morality, and the want
of strict religious principles among the higher classes of society, wrote a few weeks afterwards
to a friend in town, inquiring in his extreme simplicity, "whether he did not observe any signs
of reformation in the fashionable world?" the answer that he obtained may easily be divined.
The good man had entirely forgotten that those who most needed his exhortations, were precisely
those who would not read them; or who, if they read, would be the last to attend to them. If
books could reform the world, it had been reformed long ago; but no disparagement either to
good books--something else is necessary.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN AMBIGUOUS COMPLIMENT.

An author having shown a portion of a manuscript, which he was preparing for the press, to
a friend, the latter suggested some improvements, and pointed out some errors; but instead
of receiving his suggestions, the irritable man of letters plainly showed that he did not intend
to adopt them. A short time after, he submitted the remainder of his work to the same judge,
who having perused it, exclaimed, it could not possibly be better. "Indeed, you really think
so?" "Yes," returned the other, "I really do; for how can it possibly be better when you are
resolved to adopt no improvements?"

       *       *       *       *       *

GLORY.

During the war in the Peninsula, two British soldiers were regaling themselves after a long
fast, on a crust of mouldy bread. "This is but sorry fare, Tom," observed one of them, "especially
after the hardships and dangers we have suffered." "What do you mean by sorry fare," exclaimed
his comrade, with philosophical composure, at the same time holding up a piece of the mouldy
bread; "this is what the good people in England, who sit down to a comfortable hot dinner every
day, call military glory!"

       *       *       *       *       *

TORTURE QUINTUPLE.

That solid preacher and able annotator, Philip Limborch, quotes in his History of the Inquisition,
a writer of the name of Julius Clarus, who, it would appear formed a very forcible idea of
the powers of imagination, since he allows them four parts in five of the torments decreed
by that satanic tribunal. "Know," Limborch represents Clarus saying, "that there are five degrees
of torture, videlicit, first, the torture of being threatened to be tortured; secondly, the
torture of being conveyed to the place of torture; thirdly, the torture of being, and bound
for torture; fourthly, the torture of being hoisted on the torturing rack; and fifthly, and
lastly, the torture of squassation."

       *       *       *       *       *

APPEARANCES.

Bourganville, when trading to Otaheite, was accustomed to leave there two of some kind of European
domestic animals. In his last voyage he had on board a Capuchin and a Franciscan, who differ
from each other in the single circumstance of one having the beard shaved and the other wearing
it long on the chin. The natives who had successively admired the various animals as they were
disembarked, whether bulls and cows, hogs and sows, or he and she goats, shouted with joy at
the appearance of the Capuchin, "What a noble animal! what a pity there is not a pair!" scarcely
was the wish expressed, when the shaven Franciscan made his appearance, "Huzza, huzza!" exclaimed
the savages, "we've got the male and the female."

W.C.B.--M.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIRESIDE ENJOYMENTS.

The evening of Thursday, the 15th of February, 1827, was one of the most delightful I ever
remember to have spent. I was alone; my heart beat lightly; my pulse was quickened by the exercise
of the morning; my blood flowed freely through my veins, as meeting with no checks or impediments
to its current, and my spirits were elated by a multitude of happy remembrances and of brilliant
hopes. My apartments looked delightfully comfortable, and what signified to me the inclemency
of the weather without. The rain was pattering upon the sky-light of the staircase; the sharp
east wind was moaning angrily in the chimney; but as my eye glanced from the cheerful blaze
of the fire to the ample folds of my closed window-curtains--as the hearth-rug yielded to the
pressure of my foot, while, beating time to my own music, I sung, in rather a louder tone than
usual, my favourite air of "Judy O'Flannegan;"--the whistling of the wind, and the pattering
of the rain, only served to enhance in my estimation the comforts of my home, and inspire a
livelier sense of the good fortune which had delivered me from any evening engagements. It
may be questioned, whether there are any hours in this life, of such unmixed enjoyment as the
few, the very few, which a young bachelor is allowed to rescue from the pressing invitations
of those dear friends, who want another talking man at their dinner tables, or from those many
and wilily-devised entanglements which are woven round him by the hands of inevitable mothers,
and preserve entirely to himself.--Talk of the pleasure of repose! What repose can possibly
be so sweet, as that which is enjoyed on a disengaged day during the laborious dissipations
of a London life?--Talk of the delights of solitude! Spirit of Zimmerman!--What solitude is
the imagination capable of conceiving so entirely delightful, as that which a young unmarried
man possesses in his quiet lodging, with his easy chair and his dressing-gown, his beef-steak,
and his whisky and water, his nap over an old poem or a new novel, and the intervening despatch
of a world of little neglected matters, which, from time to time, occur to recollection between
the break of the stanzas or the incidents of the story?

Such were the reflections that hastily passed along my mind, on the afternoon of Thursday,
the 15th of February, 1827, as I sat with a volume of the Tor Hill in my hand, in the back
drawing-room of my lodging in Conduit-street. It was about ten o'clock in the afternoon. My
dinner was just removed. It had left me with that gay complacency of disposition, and irrepressible
propensity of elocution, which result from a satisfied appetite, and an undisturbed digestion.
My sense of contentment became more vigorous and confirmed, as I cast my eye around my apartment,
and contemplated my well-filled book-case, and the many articles of convenience with which
I had contrived to accommodate my nest; till, at length, the emotions of satisfaction became
too strong to be restrained within the bonds of silence, and announced themselves in the following
soliloquy:--

"What capital coals these are!--There's nothing in the world so cheering-- so enlivening--as
a good, hot, blazing, sea-coal fire."--I broke a large lump into fragments with the poker,
as I spoke--"It's all mighty fine," I continued, "for us travellers to harangue the ignorant
on the beauty of foreign cities, on their buildings without dust, and their skies without a
cloud; but, for my own part, I like to see a dark, thick, heavy atmosphere, hanging over a
town. It forewarns the traveller of his approach to the habitations, the business, and the
comforts of his civilized fellow-creatures. It gives an air of grandeur, and importance, and
mystery, to the scenes: it conciliates our respect. We know that there must be some fire where
there is so much smother.--While, in those bright, shining, smokeless cities, whenever the
sun shines upon them, one's eyes are put out by the glare of their white walls; and when it
does not shine!--why, in the winter, there's no resource left for a man but hopeless and shivering
resignation, with their wide, windy chimneys, and their damp, crackling, hissing, sputtering,
tantalizing fagots."--I confirmed my argument in favour of our metropolitan obscurity by another
stroke of the poker against the largest fragment of the broken coal; and then, letting fall
my weapon, and turning my back to the fire, I exclaimed, "Certainly--there's no kind of furniture
like books:--nothing else can afford one an equal air of comfort and habitability.--Such a
resource too!--A man never feels alone in a library.--He lives surrounded by companions, who
stand ever obedient to his call, coinciding with every caprice of temper, and harmonising with
every turn and disposition of the mind.--Yes: I love my book:--they are my friends--my counsellors--my
companions.--Yes; I have a real personal attachment, a very tender regard, for my books."

I thrust my hands into the pockets of my dressing-gown, which, by the by, is far the handsomest
piece of old brocade I have ever seen,---a large running pattern of gold hollyhocks, with silver
stalks and leaves, upon a rich, deep, Pompadour-coloured ground,--and, walking slowly backwards
and forwards in my room, I continued,--"There never was, there never can have been, so happy
a fellow as myself! What on earth have I to wish for more? Maria adores me--I adore Maria.
To be sure, she's detained at Brighton; but I hear from her regularly every morning by the
post, and we are to be united for life in a fortnight. Who was ever so blest in his love? Then
again John Fraser--my old schoolfellow! I don't believe there's anything in the world he would
not do for me. I'm sure there's no living thing that he loves so much as myself, except, perhaps,
his old uncle Simon, and his black mare."

I had by this time returned to the fireplace, and, reseating myself, began to apostrophize
my magnificent black Newfoundland, who, having partaken of my dinner, was following the advice
and example of Abernethy, and sleeping on the rug, as it digested.--"And you, too, my old Neptune,
aren't you the best and handsomest dog in the universe?"

Neptune finding himself addressed, awoke leisurely from his slumbers, and fixed his eyes on
mine with an affirmative expression.

"Ay, to be sure you are; and a capital swimmer too!"

Neptune raised his head from the rug, and beat the ground with his tail, first to the right
hand, and then to the left.

"And is he not a fine faithful fellow? And does he not love his master?"

Neptune rubbed his head against my hand, and concluded the conversation, by again sinking into
repose.

"That dog's a philosopher," I said; "He never says a word more than is necessary:--then, again,
not only blest in love and friendship, and my dog; but what luck it was to sell, and in these
times too, that old, lumbering house of my father's, with its bleak, bare, hilly acres of chalk
and stone, fat eighty thousand pounds, and to have the money paid down, on the very day the
bargain was concluded. By the by, though, I had forgot:--I may as well write to Messrs. Drax
and Drayton about that money, and order them to pay it immediately to Coutts's,--mighty honest
people and all that: but faith, no solicitors should be trusted or tempted too far. It's a
foolish way, at any time, to leave money in other people's hands--in anybody's hands--and I'll
write about it at once."

As I said, so I did. I wrote my commands Messrs. Drax and Drayton, to pay my eighty thousand
pounds into Coutts's; and after desiring that my note might be forwarded to them, the first
thing in the morning, I took my candle, and accompanied by Neptune, who always keeps watch
by night at my chamber door, proceeded to bed, as the watchman was calling "past twelve o'clock,"
beneath my window.

Blackwood's Magazine.

  Lady Bird! Lady Bird! make a short shrift--
    Here's a hair-shirted Palmer hard by;
  And here's Lawyer Earwig to draw up your will,
    And we'll witness it, Death-Moth and I.

  Lady Bird! Lady Bird! don't make a fuss--
    You've mighty small matters to give;
  Your coral and jet, and ... there, there--you can tack
    A codicil on, if you live.

  Lady Bird! Lady Bird! fly away now
    To your house in the old willow-tree,
  Where your children, so dear, have invited the ant.
    And a few cozy neighbours, to tea.

  Lady Bird! Lady Bird! fly away home,
    And if not gobbled up by the way,
  Nor yoked by the fairies to Oberon's car,
    You're in luck--and that's all I've to say.

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE OLD MANOR HOUSE."

The following circumstances respecting the foundation upon which Charlotte Smith built her
popular novel, "The Old Manor House," may probably prove interesting to the public. Near Woodcot,
where Mrs. Smith resided at the time she commenced her novel, was a very old house and domain
called Brookwood, in which resided some Misses Venables, elderly maiden ladies, whom our authoress
visited; and her acquaintance with them and their abode, gave her the idea of her romance.
They kept an old housekeeper,-- one whom we may presume was quite in keeping with the house,--whose
niece or daughter was per favour allowed to reside with her at Brookwood-- this girl, I need
scarcely say, was the Monimia of the novel, nor was her Orlando a feigned character, although
a highly-ornamented one; in truth, alas! for the shadowy beauty of romance, alas! for the spell
of gorgeous poesy, he was not more made for a hero than was Dulcinea del Toboso for a heroine,
being the young butcher of the village!! "Often and often," said the intelligent friend who
favoured me with the account, "has he supplied our family with meat when we resided at Brookwood,
and the beautiful Monimia, his wife, is only slightly disfigured by an interesting squint."
The same friend who had frequently rambled over the house, part of which is now pulled down,
spoke of it thus: "It was what I term an ancient Vandyked building, in toto an old manor-house;
the exterior had a castellated appearance, nor had the interior much less, with its dim vasty
apartments, sliding panels for the secretion of treasure, and secret passages; in one of the
chambers is a closet, wherein part of the boarding of the floor is made to slide, and when
moved, reveals a kind of vault, the descent down which is by a long narrow flight of steps;
use is made of this, I think, in 'The Old Manor House,' but some friends of mine who went down
discovered nothing but a gloomy kind of den, not capable of containing more than six persons
standing, and nearly filled with oyster-shells. Do you recollect," continued my friend, "in
which of Charlotte Smith's novels it is that she describes an eccentric old gentleman manuring
his ground with wigs? because the fact is, it really was done by such a one at Brookwood."--New
London Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DELICACY OF THE MARIKINA.

The marikina is a pretty little animal which has often been brought into Europe. Its elegant
form, graceful and easy motions, beautiful fur, intelligent physiognomy, soft voice, and affectionate
disposition, have always constituted it an object of attraction.

The marikina, or silken monkey, can be preserved in European climates only by the utmost care
in guarding it from the operation of atmospheric temperature. The cold and humidity of our
winters are fatally injurious to its health. Neatness and cleanliness to a fastidious degree
are constitutional traits of the marikina, and the greatest possible attention must be paid
to it in this way, in a state of captivity. The slightest degree of dirt annoys them beyond
measure, they lose their gaiety, and die of melancholy and disgust. They are animals of the
most excessive delicacy, and it is not easy to procure them suitable nourishment. They cannot
accustom themselves to live alone, and solitude is pernicious to them in an exact proportion
to the degree of tenderness and care with which they have been habitually treated. The most
certain means of preserving their existence, is to unite them to other individuals of their
own species, and more especially to those of an opposite sex. They will soon accustom themselves
to live on milk, biscuit, &c. but mild and ripe fruit is most agreeable to their taste, which
to a certain degree is also insectivorous.--London Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SONG FOR MUSIC.

BY T. HOOD, ESQ.

  A lake and a fairy boat
    To sail in the moonlight clear,
  And merrily we would float
    From the dragons that watch us here!

  Thy gown should be snow-white silk,
    And strings of orient pearls,
  Like gossamers dipp'd in milk,
    Should twine with thy raven curls.

  Red rubies should deck thy hands,
    And diamonds should be thy dower--
  But fairies have broke their wands,
    And wishing has lost its power!

The Plea of the Midsummer Fairies and other Poems.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARRIVAL OF A TRANSPORT.

Numbers of boats soon surround the ship, filled with people anxious to hear news, and traffickers
with fruit and other refreshments, besides watermen to land passengers; a regular establishment
of the latter description has long existed here, many of whose members formerly plied that
vocation on the Thames, and among whom were a few years back numbered that famous personage
once known by all from Westminster stairs to Greenwich, by the shouts which assailed him as
he rowed along, of "Overboard he vent, overboard he vent!" King Boongarre, too, with a boat-load
of his dingy retainers, may possibly honour you with a visit, bedizened in his varnished cocked-hat
of "formal cut," his gold-laced blue coat (flanked on the shoulders by a pair of massy epaulettes)
buttoned closely up, to evade the extravagance of including a shirt in the catalogue of his
wardrobe; and his bare and broad platter feet, of dull cinder hue, spreading out like a pair
of sprawling toads, upon the deck before you. First, he makes one solemn measured stride from
the gangway; then turning round to the quarter-deck, lifts up his beaver with the right hand
a full foot from his head, (with all the grace and ease of a court exquisite,) and carrying
it slowly and solemnly forwards to a a full arm's-length, lowers it in a gentle and most dignified
manner down to the very deck, following up this motion by an inflection of the body almost
equally profound. Advancing slowly in this way, his hat gracefully poised in his hand, and
his phiz wreathed with many a fantastic smile, he bids massa welcome to his country. On finding
he has fairly grinned himself into your good graces, he formally prepares to take leave, endeavouring
at the same time to take likewise what you are probably less willing to part withal--namely,
a portion of your cash. Let it not be supposed, however, that his majesty condescends to thieve;
he only solicits the loan of a dump, on pretence of treating his sick gin [wife] to a cup of
tea, but in reality with a view of treating himself to a porringer of "Cooper's best," to which
his majesty is most royally devoted. You land at the government wharf on the right, where carts
and porters are generally on the look-out for jobs; and on passing about fifty yards along
the avenue, you enter George-street, which stretches on both hands, and up which, towards the
left, you now turn, to reach the heart of the town.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although all you see are English faces, and you hear no other language but English spoken,
yet you soon become aware that you are in a country very different from England, by the number
of parrots and other birds of strange notes and plumage which you observe hanging at so many
doors, and cagesful of which you will soon see exposed for sale as you proceed. The government
gangs of convicts, also, marching backwards and forwards from their work in single military
file, and the solitary ones straggling here and there, with their white woollen Paramatta frocks
and trousers, or gray or yellow jackets with duck overalls, (the different styles of dress
denoting the oldness or newness of their arrival,) all bedaubed over with broad arrows, P.B.'s,
C.B.'s, and various numerals in black, white, and red, with perhaps the jail-gang straddling
sulkily by in their jingling leg-chains,--tell a tale too plain to be misunderstood. At the
corners of streets, and before many of the doors, fruit-stalls are to be seen, teeming, in
their proper seasons, with oranges, lemons, limes, figs, grapes, peaches, nectarines, apricots,
plums, apples, pears, &c. at very moderate prices.--Two Years in New South Wales.

       *       *       *       *       *

MELANCHOLY.

FROM MATTHISON

  The nightingale's sad note in gloom is ringing,
    As wails the bride above her lover's grave;
  Like Grief above the tomb her tresses wringing,
    So gleams the star of evening o'er the wave.

  A melancholy haze hangs o'er the ocean;
    The rocky cliffs reflect a sallow light--
  Such as through cloister'd halls of dim devotion,
    The moon-beams pour upon the cloudy night.

  Ye rocky heights--ye violet-meads appearing
    Once fairer to my gaze than poet's dream--
  Now all your golden light to gloom is veering,
    And every floweret laves in Lethe's stream.

  Hills, valleys, meads, no changes ye are mourning;
    'Tis to the hopeless every star appears
  Like lamps in dark sepulchral vistas burning--
    And every dew-tipp'd flower is gemm'd with tears!

Stray Leaves; or, Translations from the German Poets.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

The projector of one of the new canals, accompanied by two or three friends, was superintending
the operations of the workmen, and frequently lamented the loss which the speculation was likely
to occasion to him. He was mounted on horseback at the time, when the animal, suddenly becoming
unruly, plunged, and threw his rider into the water. Being quickly rescued from his disagreeable
situation, and safely landed on the bank, one of his companions begged to congratulate him
on the happy change that had taken place in his fortune, "for have I not often told you (said
the wit) that the canal would one day fill your pockets?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A cube of gold, of little more than five inches on each side, contains the value of 10,000l.
sterling.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There is a rich rector in Worcestershire," said one of the colonel's guests, "whose name I
cannot now recollect, but who has not preached for the last twelve months, as he every Sunday
requests one of the neighbouring clergy to officiate for him."--"Oh!" replied Colonel Landleg,
"though you cannot recollect his name, I can; it is England--England expects every man to do
his duty."

       *       *       *       *       *

The church-bells at Lima are very musical, the brass of which they are composed having a considerable
quantity of silver mixed with it; but they are rung in the most discordant manner. Instead
of being pulled in chimes, as in England, thongs of leather are fixed to the clappers, and
at the appointed times boys ascend the belfry, and swing the tongues of all the bells at once,
from one side to another, producing the most barbarous combination of sounds imaginable. A
friar who had been in England observed, that the English had very good bells if they knew but
how to ring.

       *       *       *       *       *

A laborious special pleader, being constantly annoyed by the mewing of his favourite cat, at
length resolved to get rid of it. He accordingly told his clerk to take and place it where
it might remain in safety, but still where it could never get out. The clerk instantly walked
off with poor puss in his lawyer's bag. On his return, being asked by his employer whether
the noisy animal had been so disposed of that it could not come back to interrupt him, the
cat carrier duly answered, "Certainly, I have put him where he cannot get out--in the Court
of Chancery."--Reynolds' Life.