Bishop Pole, according to the same authority, died a prisoner at large about the latter end
of May, 1568. Bishop Frampton died May 25, 1708 (Calamy's Own Times, vol. ii. p. 119.). I cannot
ascertain the day of Bishop White's death, but he was buried, according to Evelyn (vol. iii.
p. 364.), June 5, 1698.

TYRO.

Dublin.

SIGMA.

Sunderland.

[Footnote 2: In Luc. 10. tom. ii.: "Pigmi gigantum humeris impositi plusquam ipsi gigantes
vident."--Preface, p. 8.]

Dr. South v. Goldsmith, Talleyrand, &c. (Vol. vi., p. 575. Vol. vii., p. 311.).--One authority
has been overlooked by MR. BREEN, which seems as likely as any to have given currency to the
saying, viz. Dean Swift. In Gulliver's Travels (1727), Voyage to the Houyhnhnms, the hero gives
the king some information respecting British ministers of state, which I apprehend in Swift's
day was no exaggeration. The minister, Gulliver says, "applies his words to all uses except
to the indication of his mind." It must be confessed, however, that this authority is some
seven years after Dr. South.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Foucault's Experiment (Vol. vii., p. 330.).--The reality of the rotation, and the cause assigned
to it by Foucault in his experiment, is now admitted without question by scientific men. But
in measuring the amount of the motion of the pendulum, so many disturbing causes were found
to be at work, that the numerical results have not been obtained as yet with exactness. The
best account is, perhaps, the original one in the Comptes Rendus. Mr. Foucault has lately invented
an instrument founded on a similar principle, to find the latitude of a place.

ELSNO.

Passage in "Locksley Hall" (Vol. vi., p. 272.; Vol. vii., pp. 25. 146.).--Of these three commentators
neither appears to me to have hit Tennyson's meaning, though CORYLUS has made the nearest shot.
I ought to set out by confessing that it was not originally clear to myself, but that I could
not for a monument doubt, when the following explanation was suggested to me by a friend. The
"curlews" themselves are the "dreary gleams:" the words are what the Latin Grammar calls "duo
substantiva ejusdem rei." I take the meaning, in plain prose to be this: "The curlews are uttering
their peculiar cry, as they fly over Locksley Hall, looking like (to me, the spectator) dreary
gleams crossing the moorland."

I could supply A. A. D. with several examples in English, from my commonplace-book, of the
"bold figure of speech not uncommon in the vivid language of Greece;" and among the rest, one
from Tennyson himself, to wit:

 "Now, scarce three paces measured from the mound,
  We stumbled on a stationary voice," &c.

But I doubt whether the poet had those passages in his thought, when he penned the opening
of his noble poem "Locksley Hall." Of course I do not know, any more than A. A. D., and the
rest; and I suppose we shall none of us get any enlightenment "by authority."

HARRY LEROY TEMPLE.

Lake of Geneva (Vol. vii. p. 406.).--The account given in the Chronicle of Marius of what is
called "an earthquake or landslip in the valley of the {510} Upper Rhone," is evidently that
of a sudden débâcle destructive of life and property, but not such as to effect any permanent
change in the configuration of the country. That an antiquary like Montfaucon should have fallen
into the blunder of supposing that the Lacus Lemanus was then formed, may well excite surprise.
The breadth of the new-formed lake, as given by Marius, is impossible, as the mountains in
the valley are scarcely anywhere more than a mile apart. The valley of the Upper Rhone is liable
to such débâcles, and one which would fill it might be called a lake, although of short duration.
Having witnessed the effects of the débâcle of 1818 a few weeks after it happened, I can easily
understand how such a one as that described by Marius should have produced the effects attributed
to it, and yet have left no traces of its action after the lapse of centuries.

J. S.

Athenæum.

"Inter cuncta micans," &c. (Vol. vi., p. 413.).--In a small work, Lives of Eminent Saxons,
part i. p. 104., the above lines are ascribed to Aldhelm, and a translation by Mr. Boyd is
subjoined.

To Aldhelm also are attributed the lines so often alluded to in "N. & Q.," "Roma tibi subito," &c.

B. H. C.

"Its" (Vol. vi., p. 509.; Vol. vii., p. 160.).--As the proposer of the question on this word,
so kindly replied to by MR. KEIGHTLEY, may I give two instances of its use from the Old Version
of the Psalms?

    "Which in due season bringeth forth its fruit abundantly."--Ps. i. 3.

    "Thou didst prepare first a place, and set its roots so fast."--Ps.
    lxxx. 10.

The American Bibliotheca Sacra for October 1851, p. 735., says (speaking of the time when the
authorised version of the Scriptures was executed), "the genitive its was not then in use;"
which is disproved by the quotations already given.

B. H. C.

Gloves at Fairs (Vol. vii., p. 455.).--The custom of "hanging out the glove at fair time,"
as described by E. G. R., is, in all probability, of Chester origin. The annals of that city
show that its two great annual fairs were established, or rather confirmed, by a charter of
Hugh Lupus, the first Norman Earl of Chester, who granted to the abbot and convent of St. Werburgh
(now the cathedral) "the extraordinary privilege, that no criminals resorting to their fairs
at Chester should be arrested for any crime whatever, except such as they might have committed
during their stay in the city." For several centuries, Chester was famous for the manufacture
of gloves; and in token thereof, it was the custom for some days before, and during the continuance
of the fair, to hang out from the town-hall, then situate at the High Cross, their local emblem
of commerce--a glove: thereby proclaiming that non-freemen and strangers were permitted to
trade within the city, a privilege at all other times enjoyed by the citizens only. During
this period of temporary "free trade," debtors were safe from the tender mercies of their creditors,
and free from the visits of the sheriff's officer and his satellites. On the removal of the
town-hall to another part of the city, the leathern symbol of "unrestricted competition" was
suspended, at the appointed season, from the roof of St. Peter's Church; until that reckless
foe to antiquity, the Reform Bill, aimed a heavy blow at all our prescriptive rights and privileges,
and decreed that the stranger should be henceforth on a footing with the freeborn citizen.
Notwithstanding this, the authorities of the city still continued to "hang out their banner
on the outward walls;" and it is only within the last ten years that the time-honoured custom
has ceased to exist.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Astronomical Query (Vol. vii., p.84.).--Your fair correspondent LEONORA makes a mistake in
reference to the position, in regard to the zodiac, of the newly-discovered planets. It is
indeed not at all surprising that these bodies were not discovered before, for this reason--they
do not move within the circle of the zodiac: they lie far beyond it, so much so, that to include
them the zodiac must be expanded to at least five times its present breadth. Hence they lie
out of the path of ordinary observation, and their discovery is usually the result of keen
telescopic examination of distant parts of the heavens. LEONORA is of course aware, that, with
the exception of Neptune (the discovery of which is a peculiar case), all the recently discovered
planets belong to the cluster of asteroids which move between Mars and Jupiter. These are all
invisible to the eye with the exception of Vesta, and she is not to be distinguished by any
but an experienced star-gazer, and under most favourable circumstances; their minuteness, their
extra-zodiacal position, and the outrageous orbits which they describe, all conspire to keep
them out of human ken until they are detected by the telescope, and ascertained to be planets
either by their optical appearances, or by a course of watching and comparison of their positions
with catalogues of the fixed stars.

SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

Tortoiseshell Tom Cat (Vol. v., p. 465.; Vol. vii., p. 271.).--See Hone's Year Book, p. 728.

ZEUS.

Sizain on the Pope, the Devil, and the Pretender (Vol. vii., p. 270.).--This is given as one
of the prize epigrams in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1735, vol. v. p. 157.

ZEUS. {511}

Wandering Jew (Vol. vii., p. 261.).--Your correspondent will find an account of the Wandering
Jew prefixed to "Le Juif errant," the 3ième livraison of Chants et Chansons Populaires de la
France.

THOS. LAWRENCE.

Ashby-de-la-Zouch.

The earliest account of this legend is in Roger of Wendover, under the year 1228: De Joseph,
qui ultimum Christi adventum adhuc vivus exspectat, vol. iv. p. 176. of the Historical Society's
edition, vol. ii. p. 512. of Bohn's Translation: see also Brand's Popular Antiquities, vol
iii. p. 360., Bohn's edition.

ZEUS.

Hallett and Dr. Saxby (Vol. vii., p. 41.).--I know nothing of the parties, but have the book
about which S. R. inquires. The title is not accurately given in the Literary Journal. Instead
of "An Ode to Virtue," by Dr. Morris Saxby, it is An Ode on Virtue by a Young Author, dedicated
to Dr. William Saxby; with a Preface and Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by a Friend--"Mens
sibi conscia recti"--A good intention. Printed anno Domini MDCCXCI, pp. 16.

A more stupid production could not easily be found; but, as it must be scarce, if the story
about the destruction of all but eight copies is true, I transcribe a part of the dedication:

    "Most August Doctor,

    "The reputation you have acquired by professional merit, with the
    respect which is universally shown to you on account of your practical
    observance of moral philosophy, has induced me to select you as a
    protector of the following work; which being evidently intended to
    promote a cause for which you was always a zealous advocate, I have
    nourished the most flattering hopes that you will be rather pleased
    than offended by this unwarrantable presumption.

    "It is necessary I should deviate from the general rule of celebrating
    a patron's virtues in a high strain of panegyric, being sensible how
    generally yours are known, and how justly admired."--P. 3.

The ode contains only ten lines:

 "Virtue, a mere chimera amongst the fair,
  Is now quite vanquished into air;
  Formerly it was thought a thing of worth,
  But now who thinks of such poor stuff.
  It's only put on to deceive,
  That us poor mortals on them may crave;
  Fall down and swear their beauty far
  Surpasses what are ever saw!
  Then they who think all's true that's said," &c.

I omit the final line as unseemly.

Dr. Saxby is mentioned only on the title-page, and that part of the dedication which I have
copied. He must have been a sensitive man to have felt such an attack, and a prompt one to
settle his account with the author so quickly. As it is obvious that the ode was published
solely to annoy him, we may be allowed to hope that in the "severe personal chastisement" he
was not sparing of whipcord. The absence of place of publication and printer's name render
inquiry difficult; and there is no indication as to whether Dr. Saxby was of Divinity, Law,
or Physic.

H. B. C.

U. U. Club.

"My mind to me a kingdom is" (Vol. i., pp. 302. 489.; Vol. vi., pp. 555. 615.).--The idea is
Shakspeare's (Third Part of Hen. VI.):

 "Keeper. Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
  K. Henry. Why, so I am in mind; and that's enough."

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Claret (Vol. vii., p. 237.).--The word claret seems to me to be the same as the French word
clairet, both adjective and substantive; as a substantive it means a low and cheap sort of
claret, sold in France, and drawn from the barrel like beer in England; as an adjective it
is a diminutive of clair, and implies that the wine is transparent.

JOHN LAMMENS.

Manchester.

Suicide at Marseilles (Vol. vii., pp. 180. 316.).--The original authority for the custom at
Marseilles, of keeping poison at the public expense for the accommodation of all who could
give the senate satisfactory reasons for committing suicide, is Valerius Maximus, lib. ii.
cap. vi. § 7.

ZEUS.

Etymology of Slang (Vol. vii., p. 331.).--

    "SLANGS are the greaves with which the legs of convicts are fettered,
    having acquired that name from the manner in which they were worn, as
    they required a sling of string to keep them off the ground.... The
    irons were the slangs; and the slang-wearer's language was of course
    slangous, as partaking much if not wholly of the
    slang."--Sportsman's Slang, a New Dictionary and Varieties of Life,
    by John Bee: Preface, p. 5.

ZEUS.

Scanderbeg's Sword (Vol. vii., pp. 35. 143.).--The proverb, "Scanderbeg's sword must have Scanderbeg's
arm," is founded on the following story:

    "George Castriot, Prince of Albania, one of the strongest and
    valiantest men that lived these two hundred yeares, had a cimeter,
    which Mahomet the Turkish Emperor, his mortall enemy, desired to see.
    Castriot (surnamed of the Turks, Ischenderbeg, that is, Great
    Alexander, because of his valiantnesse), having received a pledge for
    the restitution of his cimeter, sent it so far as Constantinople to
    Mahomet, in whose court there was not any man found that could with any
    ease wield that piece of steele: so that Mahomet sending it back
    againe, enioyned the messenger to tell the prince, that in this action
    he kind proceeded enemy-like, and with a fraudulent mind, sending a
    counterfeit cimeter {512} to make his enemie afraid. Ischenderbeg writ
    back to him, that he had simply without fraud or guile sent him his
    owne cimeter, with the which he used to helpe himselfe couragiously in
    the wars; but that he had not sent him the hand and the arme which with
    the cimeter cleft the Turkes in two, struck off their heads, shoulders,
    legs, and other parts, yea, sliced them of by the wast; and that verie
    shortly he would show him a fresh proofe thereof; which afterwards he
    performed."--Historical Meditations from the Latin of P. Camerarius,
    by John Molle, Esquire, 1621, book iv. Cap. xvi. p. 299.

The following, relating to the arm and sword of Scanderbeg, may perhaps not inappropriately
be added, although not connected with the proverb:

    "Marinus Barletius (lib. i.) reports of Scanderbeg, Prince of Epirus
    (that most terrible enemy of the Turks), that, from his mother's womb,
    he brought with him into the world a notable mark of warlike glory: for
    he had upon his right arm a sword, so well set on, as if it had been
    drawn with the pencil of the most curious and skilful painter in the
    world."--Wanley's Wonders of the Little World, 1678, book i. cap.
    vii.

ZEUS.

Arago on the Weather (Vol. vii., p. 40.).--ELSNO will find extracts from Arago's papers in
the Pictorial Almanack, 1847, p. 30., and in the Civil Engineer and Architects' Journal, which
volume I cannot say, but I think that for 1847. Also in the Monthly Chronicle, vol. i. p. 60.,
and vol. ii. p. 209.; the annals of the Bureau des Longitudes for 1834 and the Annuaire for 1833.

SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

