 Shall I tell how much Boniface will draw in a week? No--for you will
not believe me. Certainly as much as many an innkeeper in a country town would draw in twelve
months. An innkeeper's license to Government is thirty pounds per annum. This entitles him
to keep his house open from six in the morning until eleven o'clock at night; ten pounds more
enables him to have open house during the night; and an additional ten pounds enables him to
keep a billiard table. There are a great many houses with tables and a number of light houses;
but, as I have hinted before, our police courts exhibit abominations, and a police court is
a good criterion of the morals of a people. In the first formation and early beginnings of
this colony, a man having sheep took up his abode in the interior, on any spot which he considered
suitable and agreeable, and he was called a squatter. Now no individual may pasture sheep or
cattle of any kind without receiving a license from Government, for which he pays ten pounds
annually, and making a return every year of all his stock, servants, and increase--the license,
by the way, not being available within three miles of Melbourne. The holder of such a license
is called a settler. A settler is entitled to cut wood upon his own station or run, for firing
for himself and servants; but if he cut it for sale--and we have no coal here--he pays, in
addition to the ten pounds, three pounds more per annum for the permission so to do.

You shall now receive a faithful account of the settling of a settler. Suppose him to have
a station in the interior, or as it is invariably styled, "in the Bush." The distance is forty,
fifty, or it may be eighty, miles from Melbourne, and the stock consists of from four to five
thousand sheep, and from one to two hundred head of cattle. The settler, in all probability,
has been accustomed in early life to good society, has been well educated and brought up. Living
at his station he sees none but his own servants, his chère amie, (always a part of a settler's
stock,) and perhaps a few black natives, not unfrequently hostile visitors. Business calls
the settler to Melbourne; he puts up at his inn; any thing in the shape of society rejoices
his heart, and forthwith he begins "the lark;" he dines out--gets fuddled, returns to his inn,
finds a city friend or two waiting for him, treats them to champagne, of which, at ten shillings
per bottle, they drink no end. Very well. His horse is in the stable at seven shillings and
sixpence a-night, his own bill varies from six to eight pounds per diem, and at the end of
a fortnight my settler is called upon to hand over a cheque upon his banker to the tune of
a hundred pounds, or, if he has no bank-account, his promissory note at a very short date.
Away starts the settler back to his solitude; he has given his bill, and he thinks no more
about it; but the bill finds its way quickly into the hands of an attorney, and in eight days
there is an execution out for recovery, with an addition of ten pounds already incurred in
legal expenses. The sheriff's bailiff rides to the station and demands payment of the whole.
He gets no money, but settler and bailiff return in company to Melbourne: a friend is applied
to; he discounts a bill for the sum required. The attorney is paid the amount by the hands
of the sheriff. The bill once more becomes due, and is once more dishonoured; expenses run
up like wildfire. This time there is no escape, and a portion of the stock must be sold to
avoid ruin--and it is sold sometimes at a fearful sacrifice. This is no insulated case. It
is the history of nine-tenths of the thoughtless fellows who dwell away in the Bush. Such gentlemen
at the present hour, in consequence of the depressed state of the stock market, are all but
ruined. Any one of them, who twelve months since purchased his flock of two thousand sheep
at eighteen or five-and-twenty shillings, can only reckon upon a fourth of the amount in value
now. It is increase only that enables him to pay his servants, and he has as much off the wool
as affords him the means of living. The sale of his wethers would not pay for the tear and
wear of bullocks and drays; and if any profit does by any chance arise, it can be only from
occasionally catching a few head of cattle, which, as they run wild in the woods, the settler
can keep no account of, and only with difficulty secure when they come to a lagoon for water,
where they are watched, because at one time or another they are certain to appear. Horses are
very dear in Melbourne: a useless brute, which in England would be dear at ten pounds, sells
here quickly for thirty; a good saddle horse will fetch a hundred, and I have seen some tolerable
cart horses sold for fifty and sixty pounds. In a new colony, where almost all the draught
is performed by bullocks, cart horses must realize a good price. The hire of a horse and cart
in Melbourne is, one pound four shillings for the day.

In addition to those above spoken of there is another class of settlers, who were the original
stock-holders and land-purchasers in the district. They have large tracts of country in the
Bush, and thousands of sheep and cattle on then, and all managed by servants and overseers.
These proprietors live at the clubs in Melbourne and constitute what is here termed the élite
of society. A short time ago these gentlemen entertained the pleasing notion, that there was
to be no termination to the increase and extent of their wealth; and one very young member
of the society was heard to exclaim, in apparent agony at his excessive good fortune, "upon
my soul, I am become most disgustingly rich." But mark the difference The élite have been living
in the most extravagant manner. They discounted bills at their own pleasure here at ten per
cent; and knowing well that these bills would not be honoured at maturity, they sent them to
London, and cashed them there: with the funds thus raised, they speculated in the buying of
land and stock, hoping to get (as in many instances they did) at least eighty per cent profit
by their transactions. But now stock has fallen to a trifle; bills are falling due, rushing
back from England under protest--and the bubble bursts. The banks are drawing in their accommodation,
and the élite, who were a short time back so disgustingly rich, are, whilst I write, most disgustingly
poor. This is no imaginative statement; it is a sober fact. But I do not suppose that the present
state of things will last long. Speculation and the rate of interest must come down. When the
human body is disordered, it is a happy time for the doctor; when the body mercantile is diseased,
it is the attorney's harvest time. If an attorney has any business at all, he must do well
in Melbourne, for his fees are inordinately high. Protesting a bill is five-and-twenty shillings;
noting, half-a-guinea; every letter demanding payment of account, if under twenty pounds, half-a-guinea;
above twenty and under a hundred pounds, one guinea; above a hundred, two guineas. Every summons
(a summons being a short printed form) before the supreme court, is charged six guineas; and
the clients pay down at once, without any questions, too glad to do so, provided they can get
rid of their temporary difficulties. Litigation is short and quick. Conveyancing is downright
profit; a deed, however short, conveying a piece of land, however trifling, costs five guineas.
There are no stamps, and the work is done in an hour. More valuable properties are conveyed
by a deed generally charged nine guineas. My friend ---- has drawn twelve such deeds in his
office in the course of one day; and with these eyes I have seen him earn six guineas in as
many minutes, by appearing at the police-office when a dispute has arisen between a master
and his servant. All quarrels of this kind are arranged at the police-office, when the amount
of wages received by the servant does not exceed thirty pounds annually. An attorney with brains
cannot fail to get ahead. He has only to use dispatch, and to begin and continue in one even
and undeviating course. Our barristers are few in number. There are but four of then. There
is still a glorious field for a barrister of talent, and especially if he be conversant with
the nicer points of conveyancing. Any clever barrister up to the business and a good speaker,
might rely upon making immediately at least a thousand a-year; the community are looking and
waiting for such a man. A fellow with no capital and no profession had better not show his
face in Melbourne. It is a thousand to one against him. Compared to his position that of a
labourer is an enviable one; yet any respectable and intelligent man tolerably well educated,
coming here with four or five hundred pounds in his pocket, may certainly, in a couple of years,
and in twenty different ways, treble that capital. The best and most promising is the following:--Buy
in any growing part of the town of Melbourne, a small piece of town allotment. This will cost
fifty pounds, upon this you may erect two small brick cottages, containing each two rooms and
a kitchen, and well fitted for a respectable tradesman. Two hundred and forty pounds will build
them up; thus the whole expense of cottages and ground is two hundred and ninety pounds at
most. Each cottage will, for a moral certainty, let for one pound five shillings per week,
and thus return you a clear rental of sixty-four pounds per annum, for the sum of one hundred
and forty-four pounds laid out. Some capitalists are not long in discovering this mode of adding
to their fortunes, and it is not surprising that such men, with ease, get speedily rich. Many
individuals are personally known to me who arrived here with small means a few years back,
and who are now receiving an income of fifteen hundred pounds a-year from houses, which they
have raised upon their profits and by not slow degrees. Their returns are certain for, mark
you, every tradesman pays his rent every Monday morning, there is no delay. If it be not paid
the hour it is due, the landlord is empowered by law to send a bailiff to the house, to keep
him there at an expense to the tenant of three shillings per day--and to request him, at the
end of five days, to sell off the goods and chattels provided the demand is still unsatisfied.
I know no better investment for capital, be it large or small, than that of which I speak.
There are no taxes, no ground-rents, and the tenant is bound to keep his premises in repair.
If a mistake has been made in the building of houses, it is because some have overshot the
mark, and built dwellings that are too large for the purposes required; these large houses
cost a large sum of money, and neither let readily nor nearly so high in proportion, as the
smaller houses occupied by the working-classes.

I am unable to give you an accurate notion of the general appearance of the country. Speaking
in broad terms it is wooded, but not so densely as on the Sydney side, Van Diemen's Land, or
New Zealand. The peculiar and beautiful feature of this country is the open plain which is
found at every ten or twelve miles spreading itself over a surface not less than three miles
in length and half the distance in breadth. It is as smooth as a lawn. A magnificent tree rears
itself to a great height here and there upon the sward, on either side of which appears a natural
park, the finest that taste could fashion or art could execute. Nature has done in fact what
no art could accomplish. Gaze upon these grounds, and for a moment imagine that the enormous
bullocks before you, with their fearful horns, are a gigantic herd of deer, and you have a
sight that England, famous for her parks, shall in vain attempt to rival. But against this
royal scene--set off a melancholy drawback, one which I fear may never be made good even by
the ingenuity and indomitable energy of man. The land has an awful want of spring water. There
are a few small holes, called lagoons, the remains of ancient rivers, met with now and then;
and strange to say, one of such holes will be found to contain salt sea-water, whilst another,
within a very few yards of it, has water quite fresh, or nearly so. In the former are found
large seafish, such as cod, mullet, sea-carp, and a fish similar to our perch. I an speaking
of holes discovered at a distance of a hundred and twenty miles from the sea, and having no
visible communication with it. In several districts there are large rivers, but their course
is uncertain, and it is impossible to say that any one river empties itself into the sea. Goulburn
is a fine river, and ninety miles from this on the banks of that river, are found very large
lobsters, and other shell-fish. To stand on an eminence, and to cast your eye down into the
valley beyond and beneath you, is to have an enjoyment which the ardent lover of nature alone
can appreciate. Far as the eye can look, there is uninterrupted harmony. Splendid plains covered
with the fleecy tribe, and here and there (alas! only but here and there) a speck of water,
enough to vindicate nature from the charge of utter neglect--and no more. A glance thrown in
another direction brings to your view an endless tract of country deprived even of these solitary
specks, where the grass grows as high as your knee, and where no man dare take his flocks and
herds for lack of the sweet element. If the surface of this land were blessed with spring water
as England is, the wealth of this colony would surpass the calculation of any living man. As
it is, who can tell the ultimate effect of this important deprivation? There are one or two
stations, on which spring water has been discovered, but it is a rare discovery, and dearly
prized. In Melbourne we have no water, but such as is carted by the water barrel carters from
the river Yarra-Yarra. Every house has its barrel or hogshead for holding water. The Yarra-Yarra
water is brackish, and causes dysentery. The complaint is now prevailing. In many parts of
the interior puddle holes are made, and water is thus secured from the heavy rain that falls
in the early part of summer. Water saved in this manner never becomes putrid. The leaves of
the gum-tree fall into the pool abundantly, and not only give to the water a very peculiar
flavour, but preserve it from all putrefaction. This gum water is safest when boiled with a
little tea, and drunk cold. Every settler in the Bush drinks water in no other way, and--for
want of better things--he takes tea and fresh mutton at least three times a-day. His bread
is a lump of flour and water rolled into a ball, and placed in hot ashes to bake. The loaf
is called "a damper." The country, as far as I have seen it, bears evident marks of great volcanic
change. You meet with a stone, round like a turnip, as hard as iron, like rusty iron in appearance,
and on the outside honey-combed. There are large beds of it for miles. You then come to the
flat country where the soil surpasses any thing you can conceive in richness, fit for any cultivation
under heaven, and upwards of fifteen feet in depth. Before I quitted London, I heard that the
climate of Australia was fine and equable, seldom varying, and well suited to a delicate constitution.
I am satisfied that many consumptive persons live here, who in Scotland would be carried off
in a month. You seldom hear a person cough. In church I have listened in vain for a single
hoste; no, not even before the commencement of a psalm do you find the haughting and clachering
that are indispensable in England. All pipes are clear as bell. I noticed this as a phenomenon
on my first arrival. We are now, as you would say, in the dead of winter; a strange announcement
to a British ear in the month of July. The air is chill in the morning and evening, before
sunrise and after sunset, but during the day the weather is as fine as on the finest September
day in Scotland. Notwithstanding what I have said, I would not have you ground any theory upon
my remarks as yet--or deceive Sir James Clark, and the rest of the medical gentlemen, who are
looking on all sides of the world for a climate for their hopeless invalids. I have stated
facts, but those which follow are no less authentic. On the 30th and 31st of December last,
the thermometer at the observatory stood in the shade at 70 deg. and 72 deg. noon. On the 1st
of January at noon, and up to three o'clock, P.M., it stood in the shade at 92 deg. and 93
deg. On the 2d it rose to 95 deg. at noon, and fell at sunset, eight P.M., to 69 deg. In the
middle of the foresaid month of December the thermometer was 86 deg. at breakfast time, and
before dinner down to 63 deg. These memoranda, gained from undoubted sources, would show the
climate--in summer at least--to be more variable than my reference proves it; yet I am told
that even in summer time you hear of little sickness amongst grown up people. New comers suffer
from dysentery, and children are attacked in the same way. I have had two visitations, from
which I rallied in the course of four and twenty hours, with the aid of arrow root, port wine,
and laudanum. A free use of vegetables is always dangerous to strangers, and they are obtained
here in perfection. The weather is too hot for apples, pears, and gooseberries in the summer.
Grapes and other English hot-house fruits come to delicious maturity in the open air. The melons
are inconceivably exquisite, and grow, as they were wont in Paradise before the fall, without
care or trouble spent upon them. The seed is put into the earth; a little water is given to
it at that time, and the thing is done--"c'est un fait accompli." Potatoes grow at any season
of the year, and cauliflowers and turnips spring up almost in a night like mushrooms. There
are some five farms in cultivation around Melbourne, and the crops of wheat are very fair in
quality but fall off in quantity. Thirty bushels per acre is considered a good crop. Oats grow
too much to straw, and are generally cut in the slot blade, winnowed, and carted to Melbourne
and sold for hay. Rye-grass hay does not answer, and clover is not more successful; but vetches
have just been introduced on a small scale, and nothing yet grown has succeeded so well as
green food for horses and cows. Hay of fine quality is brought from Van Diemen's Land, but
it is very dear. A cart load of good oaten hay sells here for about forty-five shillings. Van
Diemen's Land hay is at present eleven guineas per ton.

The aboriginal natives of this colony are a very savage race, and all the efforts hitherto
made by missionaries, protectors, and others, have never given promise or warrant of effectual
civilization. The males are tall, and of fierce aspect; the skin and hair are exceedingly black--the
latter very smooth. In many instances, the features are striking and good. The women are slender,
and during the summer, naked; in winter, the females in the immediate neighbourhood procure
clothes from the inhabitants of Melbourne, and cut, as you may suppose, a very original figure.
Nothing will induce the natives to work. They live in the Bush, and the bark of a large tree
forms their habitation. There are three distinct tribes around us in a circuit of about a hundred
miles, and the difference of features amongst these tribes is easily observed. The three tribes
speak three different languages unintelligible to one another. They meet at different periods
of the year, and hold what they term a "corroborice,"--that is--a dance. Their bodies on these
occasions are covered with oil, red paint, and green leaves. I have seen two hundred at a meeting,
but they assemble double that number at times. The festival concludes in pitched battle. There
is a grand fight with clubs, or arrows and spears. Three or four are generally killed in the
onslaught, and as many of the survivors as are fortunate enough to get a bite, feast upon the
fat of the victims' hearts. This fat is their richest dainty. Those who are able to form an
opinion on the subject, pronounce the aborigines of this colony to be cannibals. Many of their
children disappear, and it is generally supposed that they are devoured by their friends and
acquaintances. In many districts of the interior, the blacks have lately committed many depredations
amongst the sheep, and many of the devils are shot without judge or jury. Two natives are now
in the jail of Melbourne under sentence of death, for committing a dreadful murder upon two
sailors who were cast ashore from a whaler. These savages had been for thirteen years under
the instruction of a protector and others. They belonged originally to Van Diemen's Land, but
migrated to a part of this colony called Portland Bay. They spoke English quite well, yet,
notwithstanding all their advantages, they perpetrated this cruel and cold-blooded murder,
and then cunningly hid the bodies in the ground. They were detected by the merest chance, in
consequence of their having in possession of a few articles which had formerly belonged to
the unhappy mariners. None of the natives is allowed to carry fire-arms, and a heavy fine is
inflicted upon any individual who is known to give them spirits. They are passionately fond
of spirits, and next to these of loaf bread. The females are called by the males "Loubras,"
and the males are designated "Coolies." There is not promiscuous cohabitation. When a Coolie
reaches the age of twenty-one, he is allowed to choose his own "Loubra." Every male who then
takes unto himself a helpmate, loses a front tooth, which is knocked out of him. The natives
generally tattoo their arms and breasts, but not their faces; many carry a long white wooden
pin, or a feather, pierced through the thin part of the nose; and they all twist kangaroo teeth
and the bones of fishes more or less in their hair. Every thing small and diminutive they call
"Pickaninnie," and any thing very good, "Merri jig." Their language is a queer, rattling, hard-sounding
gibberish, incomprehensible to most people; they speak as fast as possible, laugh immoderately
at trifles, and are excellent mimics. Their own children they stile "Pickaninnies."

From all that I have seen, I do not hesitate to say, that this country will prove a splendid
field for future generations. At the present time, no man should venture here who is unprepared
for many privations and a numerous list of annoyances. The common necessaries of life he will
certainly find, but none of his ancient and English luxuries. Society is, as you may guess,
very limited. You may acknowledge an acquaintance with any one, without committing yourself.
To say that you know a man intimately is hazardous; I mean--a man whose friendship you have
cultivated only since your arrival. There are many whom you have known at home, and whose friendship
it is a pride and a pleasure to renew in your exile. But, as a general rule, "keep yourself
to yourself" is a serviceable adage. If it be attended to--well. If it be neglected--you run
your head against a stone in less than no time.

If any man have a competency, let him not travel hither to enjoy it. If he has a little money,
and desires with a little trouble and inconvenience to double his capital in the shortest possible
space of time--let him come out, and fearlessly. Living is cheap enough as far as the essentials
are concerned. Butcher meat, not surpassed in any part of England, Scotland, or Ireland, is
to be had at twopence per pound; the fine four pound loaf for sixpence halfpenny; brown sugar,
fourpence; white, sixpence; candles, sixpence per pound; tea, the finest, three shillings the
pound; fresh butter, one shilling and threepence per pound. Wild fowl in abundance. Vegetables
are cheaper than in any part of England. Wines of moderate price, but not of good quality.
Spirits first-rate, and every kind cheaper than in England, except whisky, which is seventeen
and eighteen shillings per gallon; very old at twenty-one and twenty-two. The wine most wanted
here is claret. A great deal of it is drunk during the summer, but the quality of it is bad.
Fish are abundant in the river and pools, but the people will not trouble themselves to catch
them. However, for eighteenpence or two shillings, you may get a good dish of mutteel, carp,
or a small fish called "flatties." I have never seen any of the salmon tribe, or any fish like
a sea or river trout. Wild swans--both black and white--quails, snipes, cranes, and water-hens,
are everywhere abundant, and in the Bush, the varieties of the parrot kind are out of number.
Kangaroos, opossums, and flying-squirrels, are common near the town, and afford plenty of amusement
to the sportsman. No game license required! Sunday used to be the tradesman's day for shooting,
and to a new comer the proceeding had a very queer appearance. By act of council, Sunday shooting
is prohibited under a heavy penalty, which has been inflicted on several transgressors, but,
like most laws, this is evaded. Shooting is forbidden, but hunting is not. Accordingly numerous
parties sally forth on the Sabbath to hunt the kangaroo. The dog used for the sport is a cross
between a rough greyhound and a bull; but others follow in the pack. Every man, woman, and
child, keeps a dog. Some families have eight or nine running over a house, and the natives
have them without number. A few months ago these animals congregated so thickly in the streets,
that the magistrates directed the police to shoot all that were not registered and had a collar
with the owner's name; as many as fifty were killed in a morning. It costs nothing to feed
a dog; the heads of bullocks and the heads and feet of sheep are either thrown away or given
to any one who asks for them. The bone manure system, if brought into operation, would help
to keep the streets from a bony nuisance. Memorandum: Let the next emigrant to this colony
bring a good strong fox-hound bitch with him; he will find it to his advantage. A cross between
her and a Newfoundland or large greyhound would do any thing. There are a couple of fox-hounds
here, but no bitch. It would do your heart good to see the pace at which the fellows ride.
Twenty miles on horseback they think about as much of as we do of five. There is nothing to
obstruct the animals; they are not even shod, and they fly over the smooth sward. A hundred
and twenty miles is reckoned a journey of a day and a half. A dray, with eight, ten, or twelve
bullocks in it, according, to load, will travel thirty miles a-day. When the folks travel,
they take no shelter in a house or hut for the night. When night approaches, they alight, and
tie their horses to a stump; they draw down some of the thick branches of the gum-tree, and
peel off the bark of a large tree, kindle a fire with a match, or, for want of this, rubbing
two sticks together, get up a blaze, and fall to sleep beside it. If the traveller be accompanied
by a dray, the tarpauling, is drawn round, and he sleeps beneath it.

Not amongst the least of the annoyances found here are the ants. There are three species of
the insect, and they are all very large. Many of them are an inch long, and they bite confoundedly.
A hand bitten by some of the monsters will swell to the size of a man's head. Along the coast,
and in every house, smaller ants prevail, and fleas innumerable. The number of the latter,
which you shall find upon your blanket any day of the year, is literally not to be computed.
No house is free from this little disturber, who spares neither age nor sex. I have stood upon
the sea beach adorned with white trousers, which in less than ten minutes have been covered
with hundreds of the vermin. It is an easy transition from the trousers to the inner legs.
But this is nothing when you are used to it. The grey horse won't live in the colony. So it
is said; at all events none are seen; and I am very sure that every emigrant ship brings its
fair stock. It is a wise ordination that forbids their settling. The mawk fly is indigenous,
and thrives wonderfully, as you shall hear. This fly is very like our British bluebottle, with
a somewhat greener head, and a body entirely yellow. I have seen two mawk flies strike (as
it seemed) a joint of meat, just as it was removing from the spit, leaving their fly blows
there. Before the joint had been ten minutes upon the table, small white mawks were moving
upon the surface of the meat in considerable numbers. If by any chance these animals are suffered
to accompany the meat to the safe or larder, in the course of twenty-four hours the small white
mawks increase to the length of one-eighth of an inch, and are found crawling in hundreds and
moving about, as you have observed the yellow flies buzzing over the old and rotten carcass
of a horse that has been exposed for weeks. In the winter these creatures are, of course, less
troublesome than in summer. Wire meat-covers are in constant use during the latter season.

Thus far had got in my epistle, when a torrent of ill news rushed in upon us, and compelled
me to delay my scribble. I am sorry to say, that in addition to the account which I have already
given of the depressed state of the markets, I must add some dismal intelligence. The markets
are in a deplorable state, and so is the mercantile community in general. Every day there is
a fresh bankruptcy, and the heaviest yet has just taken place. I cannot but believe that if
more emigrant laborers come out just now, they must starve. Any man with ten or fifteen thousand
pounds could buy half of the district for ready cash. The moneyed men are making fearful hauls
as it is. Let emigration stop for a time, and the markets must look up again. At the present
moment every thing is selling cheaper here than in England; men's wages are down to the ordinary
English rate. So long as the banks afford seven per cent for deposits, moneyed men will lie
in wait for bargains, and until such present themselves, will lock up the capital which at
first was in circulation through the immense speculations in land and stock. The men who saw
no end to speculation are gone and floored, every one of them. Will you believe that Messrs
---- sent out three thousand pounds worth of brandy to Sydney, and so glutted the market that
part of the cargo was bought low enough to make it a good spec to reship it for England. Such
is the fact. There never was a better moment than the present for a hit in land--sheep are
at so low a figure, and settlers so hard run. The former I still believe will gradually rise;
for, on the Sydney side, the process of boiling down sheep for the sake of the tallow, has
commenced, and if it succeed, as I believe it will, the standard value of a sheep will be fixed
at something like eight shillings. So much for the fleece and skin, so much for the bones,
so much for the kidney fat, and so much for the tallow or fat recovered by boiling the carcass.
The great object of this colony must be to increase the export produce, and to bring capital
in its place. Wool no doubt is, and will prove to be, the staple commodity; and in time, the
settlers will pay more attention to the getting up of it, and to the packing. But above all
they must speedily rid themselves of their bloodsuckers, a set of men who charge enormous commissions
for anticipated sales, and what not, amounting to thirty and forty per cent; a sum that is
nothing short of utter ruin to a poor fellow who has nothing but his wool to depend upon. Had
Judge Willis remained amongst us, he would have rooted out whole nests of these hornets. I
have no fear of the ultimate success of the colonist, if they will but be faithful to themselves.
They have a splendid country, and its capabilities are now only beginning to be known. Before
the end of the present year, our exports will consist of wool, bark, tallow, gum, hides, furs,
and last, although not least, the finest cured beef in the world. If the latter article of
produce is acknowledged as it deserves to be, and finds and establishes an eastern market,
nothing will prevent the colony from rising to importance. As far as price is concerned, we
can compete with any country in the world. We have no politics in Port Philip. The community
are far better employed in attending to their commercial affairs. Let them but persevere honestly
and prudently in their course, and they must do well.

And so much for my first epistle, honoured Christopher. If it afford you amusement, you shall
hear from me again. I have spoken the truth, and have writ down simple facts. As such, receive
them, and communicate them to your neighbours. And now, with affectionate remembrances to yourself
and all enquiring friends,

  Believe me,

      Reverend Christopher,

    Your grateful and attached,

        JOHN WILLIAM.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROPHECY OF THE TWELVE TRIBES.

  "And Jacob called into his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together,
  that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days.

  "Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken
  unto Israel your father."

          --GENESIS, xlix. 1, 2, &c.

  The Patriarch sat upon his bed--
    His cheek was pale, his eye was dim;
  Long years of woe had bow'd his head,
    And feeble was the giant limb.
  And his twelve mighty sons stood nigh,
  In grief--to see their father die!

  But, sudden as the thunder-roll,
    A new-born spirit fill'd his frame.
  His fainting visage flash'd with soul,
    His lip was touch'd with living flame;
  And burst, with more than prophet fire,
  The stream of Judgment, Love, and Ire.

  "REUBEN,[6] thou spearhead in my side,
      Thy father's first-born, and his shame;
  Unstable as the rolling tide,
    A blight has fall'n upon thy name.
  Decay shall follow thee and thine.
  Go, outcast of a hallow'd line!

  "SIMEON and LEVI,[7] sons of blood
    That still hangs heavy on the land;
  Your flocks shall be the robber's food,
   Your folds shall blaze beneath his brand.
  In swamp and forest shall ye dwell.
  Be scatter'd among Israel!

  "JUDAH![8] All hail, thou priest, thou king!
    The crown, the glory, shall be thine;
  Thine, in the fight, the eagle's wing--
    Thine, on the hill, the oil and wine.
  Thou lion! nations shall turn pale
  When swells thy roar upon the gale.

  "Judah, my son, ascend the throne,
    Till comes from heaven the unborn king--
  The prophesied, the mighty one,
    Whose heel shall crush the serpent's sting.
  Till earth is paradise again,
  And sin is dead, and death is slain!

  "Wide as the surges, ZEBULON,[9]
   Thy daring keel shall plough the sea;
  Before thee sink proud Sidon's sun,
   And strong Issachar toil for thee.
  Thou, reaper of his corn and oil,
  Lord of the giant and the soil!

  "Whose banner flames in battle's van!
    Whose mail is first in slaughter gored!
  Thou, subtler than the serpent, DAN,[10]
    Prince of the arrow and the sword.
  Woe to the Syrian charioteer
  When rings the rushing of thy spear!

  "Crush'd to the earth by war and woe,
    GAD,[11] shall the cup of bondage drain,
  Till bold revenge shall give the blow
    That pays the long arrear of pain.
  Thy cup shall glow with tyrant-gore,
  Thou be my Son--and man once more!

  "Loved NAPHTALI,[12] thy snow-white hind
    Shall bask beneath the rose and vine.
  Proud ASHER, to the mountain wild
    Shall star-like blaze, thy battle-sign.
  All bright to both, from birth to tomb,
  The heavens all sunshine, earth all bloom!

  "JOSEPH,[13] come near--my son, my son!
    Egyptian prince, Egyptian sage,
  Child of my first and best-loved one,
    Great guardian of thy father's age.
  Bring EPHRAIM and MANASSEH nigh,
  And let me bless them ere I die.

  "Hear me--Thou GOD of Israel!
    Thou, who hast been his living shield,
  In the red desert's lion-dell,
    In Egypt's famine-stricken field,
  In the dark dungeon's chilling stone,
  In Pharaoh's chain--by Pharaoh's throne.

  "My son, all blessings be on thee,
    Be blest abroad, be blest at home;
  Thy nation's strength--her living tree,
    The well to which the thirsty come;
  Blest be thy valley, blest thy hill,
  Thy father's GOD be with thee still!

  "Thou man of blood, thou man of might,
    Thy soul shall ravin, BENJAMIN.[14]
  Thou wolf by day, thou wolf by night,
    Rushing through slaughter, spoil, and sin;
  Thine eagle's beak and vulture's wing
  Shall curse thy nation with a king!"

  Then ceased the voice, and all was still:
    The hand of death was on the frame;
  Yet gave the heart one final thrill,
    And breathed the dying lip one name.
  "Sons, let me rest by Leah's side!"
  He raised his brow to heaven--and died.

HAVILAH.

    [6] The privileges of the first-born passed away from the tribe
    of Reuben, and were divided among his brethren. The double portion
    of the inheritance was given to Joseph--the priesthood to Levi--and
    the sovereignty to Judah. The tribe never rose into national power,
    and it was the first which was carried into captivity.

    [7] The massacre of the Shechemites was the crime of the two
    brothers. For a long period the tribe of Simeon was depressed; and
    its position, on the verge of the Amalekites, always exposed it to
    suffering. The Levites, though finally entrusted with the
    priesthood, had no inheritance in Palestine: they dwelt scattered
    among the tribes.

    [8] The tribe of Judah was distinguished from the beginning of the
    nation. It led the van in the march to Palestine. It was the first
    appointed to expel the Canaanites. It gave the first judge, Othniel.
    It was the tribe of David, and, most glorious of all titles, was
    the Tribe of our LORD.

    [9] Zebulon was a maritime tribe, its location extending along the
    sea-shore, and stretching to the borders of Sidon. The tribe of
    Issachar were located in the country afterwards called Lower
    Galilee; were chiefly tillers of the soil; were never distinguished
    in the military or civil transactions of the nation, and, as they
    dwelt among the Canaanites, seem to have habitually served them for
    hire. Issachar is characterised as the "strong ass"--a drudge,
    powerful but patient.

    [10] The tribe of Dan were remarkable for the daring of their
    exploits in war, and not less so for their stratagems. Their great
    chieftain Samson, distinguished alike for strength and subtlety,
    might be an emblem of their qualities and history.

    [11] Gad; a tribe engaged in continual and memorable conflicts.

    [12] Naphtali and Asher inhabited the most fertile portions of
    Palestine.

