I was about to begin the music for it in a new light French style, but the seriousness of my
position, which grew more and more acute, prevented further progress in my work.

In this respect my strained relations with the conductor of the theatre were still a constant
source of trouble. With neither the opportunity nor the means to defend myself, I had to submit
to being maligned and rendered an object of suspicion on all sides by my rival, who remained
master of the field. The object of this was to disgust me with the idea of taking up my appointment
as musical conductor, for which the contract had been signed for Easter. Though I did not lose
my self-confidence, I suffered keenly from the indignity and the depressing effect of this
prolonged strain.

When at last, at the beginning of April, the moment arrived for the musical conductor Schubert
to resign, and for me to take over the whole charge, he had the melancholy satisfaction of
knowing that not only was the standing of the opera seriously weakened by the departure of
the prima donna, but that there was good reason to doubt whether the theatre could be carried
on at all. This month of Lent, which was such a bad time in Germany for all similar theatrical
enterprises, decimated the Konigsberg audience with the rest. The director took the greatest
trouble imaginable to fill up the gaps in the staff of the opera by means of engaging strangers
temporarily, and by new acquisitions, and in this my personality and unflagging activity were
of real service; I devoted all my energy to buoying up by word and deed the tattered ship of
the theatre, in which I now had a hand for the first time.

For a long time I had to try and keep cool under the most violent treatment by a clique of
students, among whom my predecessor had raised up enemies for me; and by the unerring certainty
of my conducting I had to overcome the initial opposition of the orchestra, which had been
set against me.

After laboriously laying the foundation of personal respect, I was now forced to realise that
the business methods of the director, Hubsch, had already involved too great a sacrifice to
permit the theatre to make its way against the unfavourableness of the season, and in May he
admitted to me that he had come to the point of being obliged to close the theatre.

By summoning up all my eloquence, and by making suggestions which promised a happy issue, I
was able to induce him to persevere; nevertheless, this was only possible by making demands
on the loyalty of his company, who were asked to forego part of their salaries for a time.
This aroused general bitterness on the part of the uninitiated, and I found myself in the curious
position of being forced to place the director in a favourable light to those who were hard
hit by these measures, while I myself and my position were affected in such a manner that my
situation became daily more unendurable under the accumulation of intolerable difficulties
taking their root in my past.

But though I did not even then lose courage, Minna, who as my wife was robbed of all that she
had a right to expect, found this turn of fate quite unbearable. The hidden canker of our married
life which, even before our marriage, had caused me the most terrible anxiety and led to violent
scenes, reached its full growth under these sad conditions. The less I was able to maintain
the standard of comfort due to our position by working and making the most of my talents, the
more did Minna, to my insufferable shame, consider it necessary to take this burden upon herself
by making the most of her personal popularity. The discovery of similar condescensions--as
I used to call them--on Minna's part, had repeatedly led to revolting scenes, and only her
peculiar conception of her professional position and the needs it involved had made a charitable
interpretation possible.

I was absolutely unable to bring my young wife to see my point of view, or to make her realise
my own wounded feelings on these occasions, while the unrestrained violence of my speech and
behaviour made an understanding once and for all impossible. These scenes frequently sent my
wife into convulsions of so alarming a nature that, as will easily be realised, the satisfaction
of reconciling her once more was all that remained to me. Certain it was that our mutual attitude
became more and more incomprehensible and inexplicable to us both.

These quarrels, which now became more frequent and more distressing, may have gone far to diminish
the strength of any affection which Minna was able to give me, but I had no idea that she was
only waiting for a favourable opportunity to come to a desperate decision.

To fill the place of tenor in our company, I had summoned Friedrich Schmitt to Konigsberg,
a friend of my first year in Magdeburg, to whom allusion has already been made. He was sincerely
devoted to me, and helped me as much as possible in overcoming the dangers which threatened
the prosperity of the theatre as well as my own position.

The necessity of being on friendly terms with the public made me much less reserved and cautious
in making new acquaintances, especially when in his company.

A rich merchant, of the name of Dietrich, had recently
constituted himself a patron of the theatre, and especially of
 the women. With due deference to the men with whom they were
connected, he used to invite the pick of these ladies to dinner
at his house, and affected, on these occasions, the well-to-do
Englishman, which was the beau-ideal for German merchants,
especially in the manufacturing towns of the north.

I had shown my annoyance at the acceptance of the invitation, sent to us among the rest, at
first simply because his looks were repugnant to me. Minna considered this very unjust. Anyhow,
I set my face decidedly against continuing our acquaintance with this man, and although Minna
did not insist on receiving him, my conduct towards the intruder was the cause of angry scenes
between us.

One day Friedrich Schmitt considered it his duty to inform me that this Herr Dietrich had spoken
of me at a public dinner in such a manner as to lead every one to suppose that he had a suspicious
intimacy with my wife. I felt obliged to suspect Minna of having, in some way unknown to me,
told the fellow about my conduct towards her, as well as about our precarious position.

Accompanied by Schmitt, I called this dangerous person to account on the subject in his own
home. At first this only led to the usual denials. Afterwards, however, he sent secret communications
to Minna concerning the interview, thus providing her with a supposed new grievance against
me in the form of my inconsiderate treatment of her.

Our relations now reached a critical stage, and on certain points we preserved silence.

At the same time--it was towards the end of May, 1837--the business affairs of the theatre
had reached the crisis above mentioned, when the management was obliged to fall back on the
self-sacrificing co-operation of the staff to assure the continuance of the undertaking. As
I have said before, my own position at the end of a year so disastrous to my welfare was seriously
affected by this; nevertheless, there seemed to be no alternative for me but to face these
difficulties patiently, and relying on the faithful Friedrich Schmitt, but ignoring Minna,
I began to take the necessary steps for making my post at Konigsberg secure. This, as well
as the arduous part I took in the business of the theatre, kept me so busy and so much away
from home, that I was not able to pay any particular attention to Minna's silence and reserve.

On the morning of the 31st of May I took leave of Minna, expecting to be detained till late
in the afternoon by rehearsals and business matters. With my entire approval she had for some
time been accustomed to have her daughter Nathalie, who was supposed by every one to be her
youngest sister, to stay with her.

As I was about to wish them my usual quiet good-bye, the two women rushed after me to the door
and embraced me passionately, Minna as well as her daughter bursting into tears. I was alarmed,
and asked the meaning of this excitement, but could get no answer from them, and I was obliged
to leave them and ponder alone over their peculiar conduct, of the reason for which I had not
even the faintest idea.

I arrived home late in the afternoon, worn out by my exertions and worries, dead-tired, pale
and hungry, and was surprised to find the table not laid and Minna not at home, the maid telling
me that she had not yet returned from her walk with Nathalie.

I waited patiently, sinking down exhausted at the work-table, which I absent-mindedly opened.
To my intense astonishment it was empty. Horror-struck, I sprang up and went to the wardrobe,
and realised at once that Minna had left the house; her departure had been so cunningly planned
that even the maid was unaware of it.

With death in my soul I dashed out of the house to investigate the cause of Minna's disappearance.

Old Moller, by his practical sagacity, very soon found out that Dietrich, his personal enemy,
had left Konigsberg in the direction of Berlin by the special coach in the morning.

This horrible fact stood staring me in the face.

I had now to try and overtake the fugitives. With the lavish use of money this might have been
possible, but funds were lacking, and had, in part, to be laboriously collected.

On Moller's advice I took the silver wedding presents with me in case of emergency, and after
the lapse of a few terrible hours went off, also by special coach, with my distressed old friend.
We hoped to overtake the ordinary mail-coach, which had started a short time before, as it
was probable that Minna would also continue her journey in this, at a safe distance from Konigsberg.

This proved impossible, and when next morning at break of day we arrived in Elbing, we found
our money exhausted by the lavish use of the express coach, and were compelled to return; we
discovered, moreover, that even by using the ordinary coach we should be obliged to pawn the
sugar-basin and cake-dish.

This return journey to Konigsberg rightly remains one of the saddest memories of my youth.
Of course, I did not for a moment entertain the idea of remaining in the place; my one thought
was how I could best get away. Hemmed in between the law-suits of my Magdeburg creditors and
the Konigsberg tradesmen, who had claims on me for the payment by instalment of my domestic
accounts, my departure could only be carried out in secrecy. For this very reason, too, it
was necessary for me to raise money, particularly for the long journey from Konigsberg to Dresden,
whither I determined to go in quest of my wife, and these matters detained me for two long
and terrible days.

I received no news whatever from Minna; from Moller I ascertained that she had gone to Dresden,
and that Dietrich had only accompanied her for a short distance on the excuse of helping her
in a friendly way.

I succeeded in assuring myself that she really only wished to get away from a position that
filled her with desperation, and for this purpose had accepted the assistance of a man who
sympathised with her, and that she was for the present seeking rest and shelter with her parents.
My first indignation at the event accordingly subsided to such an extent that I gradually acquired
more sympathy for her in her despair, and began to reproach myself both for my conduct and
for having brought unhappiness on her.

I became so convinced of the correctness of this view during the tedious journey to Dresden
via Berlin, which I eventually undertook on the 3rd of June, that when at last I found Minna
at the humble abode of her parents, I was really quite unable to express anything but repentence
and heartbroken sympathy.

It was quite true that Minna thought herself badly treated by me, and declared that she had
only been forced to take this desperate step by brooding over our impossible position, to which
she thought me both blind and deaf. Her parents were not pleased to see me: the painfully excited
condition of their daughter seemed to afford sufficient justification for her complaints against
me. Whether my own sufferings, my hasty pursuit, and the heartfelt expression of my grief made
any favourable impression on her, I can really hardly say, as her manner towards me was very
confused and, to a certain extent, incomprehensible. Still she was impressed when I told her
that there was a good prospect of my obtaining the post of musical conductor at Riga, where
a new theatre was about to be opened under the most favourable conditions. I felt that I must
not press for new resolutions concerning the regulation of our future relations just then,
but must strive the more earnestly to lay a better foundation for them. Consequently, after
spending a fearful week with my wife under the most painful conditions, I went to Berlin, there
to sign my agreement with the new director of the Riga theatre. I obtained the appointment
on fairly favourable terms which, I saw, would enable me to keep house in such a style that
Minna could retire from the theatre altogether. By this means she would be in a position to
spare me all humiliation and anxiety.

On returning to Dresden, I found that Minna was ready to lend a willing ear to my proposed
plans, and I succeeded in inducing her to leave her parents' house, which was very cramped
for us, and to establish herself in the country at Blasewitz, near Dresden, to await our removal
to Riga. We found modest lodgings at an inn on the Elbe, in the farm-yard of which I had often
played as a child. Here Minna's frame of mind really seemed to be improving. She had begged
me not to press her too hard, and I spared her as much as possible. After a few weeks I thought
I might consider the period of uneasiness past, but was surprised to find the situation growing
worse again without any apparent reason. Minna then told me of some advantageous offers she
had received from different theatres, and astonished me one day by announcing her intention
of taking a short pleasure trip with a girl friend and her family. As I felt obliged to avoid
putting any restraint upon her, I offered no objection to the execution of this project, which
entailed a week's separation, but accompanied her back to her parents myself, promising to
await her return quietly at Blasewitz. A few days later her eldest sister called to ask me
for the written permission required to make out a passport for my wife. This alarmed me, and
I went to Dresden to ask her parents what their daughter was about. There, to my surprise,
I met with a very unpleasant reception; they reproached me coarsely for my behaviour to Minna,
whom they said I could not even manage to support, and when I only replied by asking for information
as to the whereabouts of my wife, and about her plans for the future, I was put off with improbable
statements. Tormented by the sharpest forebodings, and understanding nothing of what had occurred,
I went back to the village, where I found a letter from Konigsberg, from Moller, which poured
light on all my misery. Herr Dietrich had gone to Dresden, and I was told the name of the hotel
at which he was staying. The terrible illumination thrown by this communication upon Minna's
conduct showed me in a flash what to do. I hurried into town to make the necessary inquiries
at the hotel mentioned, and found that the man in question had been there, but had moved on
again. He had vanished, and Minna too! I now knew enough to demand of the Fates why, at such
an early age, they had sent me this terrible experience which, as it seemed to me, had poisoned
my whole existence.

I sought consolation for my boundless grief in the society of my sister Ottilie and her husband,
Hermann Brockhaus, an excellent fellow to whom she had been married for some years. They were
then living at their pretty summer villa in the lovely Grosser Garten, near Dresden. I had
looked them up at once the first time I went to Dresden, but as I had not at that time the
slightest idea of how things were going to turn out, I had told them nothing, and had seen
but little of them. Now I was moved to break my obstinate silence, and unfold to them the cause
of my misery, with but few reservations.

For the first time I was in a position gratefully to appreciate the advantages of family intercourse,
and of the direct and disinterested intimacy between blood relations. Explanations were hardly
necessary, and as brother and sister we found ourselves as closely linked now as we had been
when we were children. We arrived at a complete understanding without having to explain what
we meant; I was unhappy, she was happy; consolation and help followed as a matter of course.

This was the sister to whom I once had read Leubald und Adelaide in a thunderstorm; the sister
who had listened, filled with astonishment and sympathy, to that eventful performance of my
first overture on Christmas Eve, and whom I now found married to one of the kindest of men,
Hermann Brockhaus, who soon earned a reputation for himself as an expert in oriental languages.
He was the youngest brother of my elder brother-in-law, Friedrich Brockhaus. Their union was
blessed by two children; their comfortable means favoured a life free from care, and when I
made my daily pilgrimage from Blasewitz to the famous Grosser Garten, it was like stepping
from a desert into paradise to enter their house (one of the popular villas), knowing that
I would invariably find a welcome in this happy family circle. Not only was my spirit soothed
and benefited by intercourse with my sister, but my creative instincts, which had long lain
dormant, were stimulated afresh by the society of my brilliant and learned brother-in-law.
It was brought home to me, without in any way hurting my feelings, that my early marriage,
excusable as it may have been, was yet an error to be retrieved, and my mind regained sufficient
elasticity to compose some sketches, designed this time not merely to meet the requirements
of the theatre as I knew it. During the last wretched days I had spent with Minna at Blasewitz,
I had read Bulwer Lytton's novel, Rienzi; during my convalescence in the bosom of my sympathetic
family, I now worked out the scheme for a grand opera under the inspiration of this book. Though
obliged for the present to return to the limitations of a small theatre, I tried from this
time onwards to aim at enlarging my sphere of action. I sent my overture, Rule Britannia, to
the Philharmonic Society in London, and tried to get into communication with Scribe in Paris
about a setting for H. Konig's novel, Die Hohe Braut, which I had sketched out.

Thus I spent the remainder of this summer of ever-happy memory. At the end of August I had
to leave for Riga to take up my new appointment. Although I knew that my sister Rosalie had
shortly before married the man of her choice, Professor Oswald Marbach of Leipzig, I avoided
that city, probably with the foolish notion of sparing myself any humiliation, and went straight
to Berlin, where I had to receive certain additional instructions from my future director,
and also to obtain my passport. There I met a younger sister of Minna's, Amalie Planer, a singer
with a pretty voice, who had joined our opera company at Magdeburg for a short time. My report
of Minna quite overwhelmed this exceedingly kind- hearted girl. We went to a performance of
Fidelia together, during which she, like myself, burst into tears and sobs. Refreshed by the
sympathetic impression I had received, I went by way of Schwerin, where I was disappointed
in my hopes of finding traces of Minna, to Lubeck, to wait for a merchant ship going to Riga.
We had set sail for Travemunde when an unfavourable wind set in, and held up our departure
for a week: I had to spend this disagreeable time in a miserable ship's tavern. Thrown on my
own resources I tried, amongst other things, to read Till Eulenspiegel, and this popular book
first gave me the idea of a real German comic opera. Long afterwards, when I was composing
the words for my Junger Siegfried, I remember having many vivid recollections of this melancholy
sojourn in Travemunde and my reading of Till Eulenspiegel. After a voyage of four days we at
last reached port at Bolderaa. I was conscious of a peculiar thrill on coming into contact
with Russian officials, whom I had instinctively detested since the days of my sympathy with
the Poles as a boy. It seemed to me as if the harbour police must read enthusiasm for the Poles
in my face, and would send me to Siberia on the spot, and I was the more agreeably surprised,
on reaching Riga, to find myself surrounded by the familiar German element which, above all,
pervaded everything connected with the theatre.

After my unfortunate experiences in connection with the conditions of small German stages,
the way in which this newly opened theatre was run had at first a calming effect on my mind.
A society had been formed by a number of well-to-do theatre-goers and rich business men to
raise, by voluntary subscription, sufficient money to provide the sort of management they regarded
as ideal with a solid foundation. The director they appointed was Karl von Holtei, a fairly
popular dramatic writer, who enjoyed a certain reputation in the theatrical world. This man's
ideas about the stage represented a special tendency, which was at that time on the decline.
He possessed, in addition to his remarkable social gifts, an extraordinary acquaintance with
all the principal people connected with the theatre during the past twenty years, and belonged
to a society called Die Liebenswurdigen Libertins ('The Amiable Libertines'). This was a set
of young would-be wits, who looked upon the stage as a playground licensed by the public for
the display of their mad pranks, from which the middle class held aloof, while people of culture
were steadily losing all interest in the theatre under these hopeless conditions.

Holtei's wife had in former days been a popular actress at the Konigstadt theatre in Berlin,
and it was here, at the time when Henriette Sontag raised it to the height of its fame, that
Holtei's style had been formed. The production there of his melodrama Leonore (founded on Burger's
ballad) had in particular earned him a wide reputation as a writer for the stage, besides which
he produced some Liederspiele, and among them one, entitled Der Alte Feldherr, became fairly
popular. His invitation to Riga had been particularly welcome, as it bid fair to gratify his
craving to absorb himself completely in the life of the stage; he hoped, in this out-of-the-way
place, to indulge his passion without restraint. His peculiar familiarity of manner, his inexhaustible
store of amusing small talk, and his airy way of doing business, gave him a remarkable hold
on the tradespeople of Riga, who wished for nothing better than such entertainment as he was
able to give them. They provided him liberally with all the necessary means and treated him
in every respect with entire confidence. Under his auspices my own engagement had been very
easily secured. Surly old pedants he would have none of, favouring young men on the score of
their youth alone. As far as I myself was concerned, it was enough for him to know that I belonged
to a family which he knew and liked, and hearing, moreover, of my fervent devotion to modern
Italian and French music in particular, he decided that I was the very man for him. He had
the whole shoal of Bellini's, Donizetti's, Adam's, and Auber's operatic scores copied out,
and I was to give the good people of Riga the benefit of them with all possible speed.

The first time I visited Holtei I met an old Leipzig acquaintance, Heinrich Dorn, my former
mentor, who now held the permanent municipal appointment of choir-master at the church and
music-teacher in the schools. He was pleased to find his curious pupil transformed into a practical
opera conductor of independent position, and no less surprised to see the eccentric worshipper
of Beethoven changed into an ardent champion of Bellini and Adam. He took me home to his summer
residence, which was built, according to Riga phraseology, 'in the fields,' that is literally,
on the sand. While I was giving him some account of the experiences through which I had passed,
I grew conscious of the strangely deserted look of the place. Feeling frightened and homeless,
my initial uneasiness gradually developed into a passionate longing to escape from all the
whirl of theatrical life which had wooed me to such inhospitable regions. This uneasy mood
was fast dispelling the flippancy which at Magdeburg had led to my being dragged down to the
level of the most worthless stage society, and had also conduced to spoil my musical taste.
It also contained the germs of a new tendency which developed during the period of my activity
at Riga, brought me more and more out of touch with the theatre, thereby causing Director Holtei
all the annoyance which inevitably attends disappointment.

For some time, however, I found no difficulty in making the best of a bad bargain. We were
obliged to open the theatre before the company was complete. To make this possible, we gave
a performance of a short comic opera by C. Blum, called Marie, Max und Michel. For this work
I composed an additional air for a song which Holtei had written for the bass singer, Gunther;
it consisted of a sentimental introduction and a gay military rondo, and was very much appreciated.
Later on, I introduced another additional song into the Schweizerfamilie, to be sung by another
bass singer, Scheibler; it was of a devotional character, and pleased not only the public,
but myself, and showed signs of the upheaval which was gradually taking place in my musical
development. I was entrusted with the composition of a tune for a National Hymn written by
Brakel in honour of the Tsar Nicholas's birthday. I tried to give it as far as possible the
right colouring for a despotic patriarchal monarch, and once again I achieved some fame, for
it was sung for several successive years on that particular day. Holtei tried to persuade me
to write a bright, gay comic opera, or rather a musical play, to be performed by our company
just as it stood. I looked up the libretto of my Glucktiche Barenfamilie, and found Holtei
very well disposed towards it (as I have stated elsewhere); but when I unearthed the little
music which I had already composed for it, I was overcome with disgust at this way of writing;
whereupon I made a present of the book to my clumsy, good-natured friend, Lobmann, my right-hand
man in the orchestra, and never gave it another thought from that day to this. I managed, however,
to get to work on the libretto of Rienzi, which I had sketched out at Blasewitz. I developed
it from every point of view, on so extravagant a scale, that with this work I deliberately
cut off all possibility of being tempted by circumstances to produce it anywhere but on one
of the largest stages in Europe.

But while this helped to strengthen my endeavour to escape from all the petty degradations
of stage life, new complications arose which affected me more and more seriously, and offered
further opposition to my aims. The prima donna engaged by Holtei had failed us, and we were
therefore without a singer for grand opera. Under the circumstances, Holtei joyfully agreed
to my proposal to ask Amalie, Minna's sister (who was glad to accept an engagement that brought
her near me), to come to Riga at once. In her answer to me from Dresden, where she was then
living, she informed me of Minna's return to her parents, and of her present miserable condition
owing to a severe illness. I naturally took this piece of news very coolly, for what I had
heard about Minna since she left me for the last time had forced me to authorise my old friend
at Konigsberg to take steps to procure a divorce. It was certain that Minna had stayed for
some time at a hotel in Hamburg with that ill-omened man, Herr Dietrich, and that she had spread
abroad the story of our separation so unreservedly that the theatrical world in particular
had discussed it in a manner that was positively insulting to me. I simply informed Amalie
of this, and requested her to spare me any further news of her sister.

Hereupon Minna herself appealed to me, and wrote me a positively heartrending letter, in which
she openly confessed her infidelity. She declared that she had been driven to it by despair,
but that the great trouble she had thus brought upon herself having taught her a lesson, all
she now wished was to return to the right path. Taking everything into account, I concluded
that she had been deceived in the character of her seducer, and the knowledge of her terrible
position had placed her both morally and physically in a most lamentable condition, in which,
now ill and wretched, she turned to me again to acknowledge her guilt, crave my forgiveness,
and assure me, in spite of all, that she had now become fully aware of her love for me. Never
before had I heard such sentiments from Minna, nor was I ever to hear the same from her again,
save on one touching occasion many years later, when similar outpourings moved and affected
me in the same way as this particular letter had done. In reply I told her that there should
never again be any mention between us of what had occurred, for which I took upon myself the
chief blame; and I can pride myself on having carried out this resolution to the letter.

When her sister's engagement was satisfactorily settled, I at once invited Minna to come to
Riga with her. Both gladly accepted my invitation, and arrived from Dresden at my new home
on 19th October, wintry weather having already set in. With much regret I perceived that Minna's
health had really suffered, and therefore did all in my power to provide her with all the domestic
comforts and quiet she needed. This presented difficulties, for my modest income as a conductor
was all I had at my disposal, and we were both firmly determined not to let Minna go on the
stage again. On the other hand, the carrying out of this resolve, in view of the financial
inconvenience it entailed, produced strange complications, the nature of which was only revealed
to me later, when startling developments divulged the real moral character of the manager Holtei.
For the present I had to let people think that I was jealous of my wife. I bore patiently with
the general belief that I had good reasons to be so, and rejoiced meanwhile at the restoration
of our peaceful married life, and especially at the sight of our humble home, which we made
as comfortable as our means would allow, and in the keeping of which Minna's domestic talents
came strongly to the fore. As we were still childless, and were obliged as a rule to enlist
the help of a dog in order to give life to the domestic hearth, we once lighted upon the eccentric
idea of trying our luck with a young wolf which was brought into the house as a tiny cub. When
we found, however, that this experiment did not increase the comfort of our home life, we gave
him up after he had been with us a few weeks. We fared better with sister Amalie; for she,
with her good-nature and simple homely ways, did much to make up for the absence of children
for a time. The two sisters, neither of whom had had any real education, often returned playfully
to the ways of their childhood. When they sang children's duets, Minna, though she had had
no musical training, always managed very cleverly to sing seconds, and afterwards, as we sat
at our evening meal, eating Russian salad, salt salmon from the Dwina, or fresh Russian caviare,
we were all three very cheerful and happy far away in our northern home.

Amalie's beautiful voice and real vocal talent at first won for her a very favourable reception
with the public, a fact which did us all a great deal of good. Being, however, very short,
and having no very great gift for acting, the scope of her powers was very limited, and as
she was soon surpassed by more successful competitors, it was a real stroke of good luck for
her that a young officer in the Russian army, then Captain, now General, Carl von Meek, fell
head over ears in love with the simple girl, and married her a year later. The unfortunate
part of this engagement, however, was that it caused many difficulties, and brought the first
cloud over our menage a trois. For, after a while, the two sisters quarrelled bitterly, and
I had the very unpleasant experience of living for a whole year in the same house with two
relatives who neither saw nor spoke to each other.

We spent the winter at the beginning of 1838 in a very small dingy dwelling in the old town;
it was not till the spring that we moved into a pleasanter house in the more salubrious Petersburg
suburb, where, in spite of the sisterly breach before referred to, we led a fairly bright and
cheerful life, as we were often able to entertain many of our friends and acquaintances in
a simple though pleasant fashion. In addition to members of the stage I knew a few people in
the town, and we received and visited the family of Dorn, the musical director, with whom I
became quite intimate. But it was the second musical director, Franz Lobmann, a very worthy
though not a very gifted man, who became most faithfully attached to me. However, I did not
cultivate many acquaintances in wider circles, and they grew fewer as the ruling passion of
my life grew steadily stronger; so that when, later on, I left Riga, after spending nearly
two years there, I departed almost as a stranger, and with as much indifference as I had left
Magdeburg and Konigsberg. What, however, specially embittered my departure was a series of
experiences of a particularly disagreeable nature, which firmly determined me to cut myself
off entirely from the necessity of mixing with any people like those I had met with in my previous
attempts to create a position for myself at the theatre.

