VOL. I.--NO. 18. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A HUNTING ADVENTURE.

I had been travelling in the interior of Africa, in company with a Portuguese ivory trader,
for several weeks, greatly enjoying the wild and exciting life we were compelled to lead. The
exercise had steadied and braced my nerves, which before setting out were in a shattered condition
from the effects of a severe and long attack of fever. Constant practice had also made me an
expert shot and a successful hunter. Indeed, if one only knew how to handle a gun, and went
to work with proper precaution, the amazing abundance of animal life everywhere to be met with
could not fail in making him more or less of a sportsman.

In hunting the large game, such as the lion, the elephant, and the rhinoceros, there was always
a spice of danger, and I had in two or three several instances found myself in positions of
extreme peril, from which nothing but presence of mind or good fortune brought me safely out.
But the danger incurred only lent additional charms to the pursuit; while a proud feeling of
exultation would steal over the heart when, thinking that an insignificant and feeble man should
be more than a match for such huge creatures in spite of their gigantic strength.

One day, in our several canoes, we were paddling up a broad river; on either bank stretched
an apparently impenetrable forest, many of the trees of which approached to the very water's
edge, while the ends of creepers fell into, and huge plants actually raised their heads out
of, the river itself. From the branches of the trees curious-looking monkeys gazed inquisitively
at us, chattering to each other as if inquiring what business we had in invading their domains;
numbers of brilliantly colored birds hovered on the wing, making the air resound with their
varied and peculiar notes; the gentle gazelle would timidly approach to slake his thirst at
the water; the noble lion would stalk out in all his majesty for the same purpose, while ever
and anon, now close to the canoes, now yards away, a loud snort would startle us, and the huge
ugly head of a hippopotamus would be thrust above the surface.

Journeying thus by water is a pleasant and restful change from the everlasting tramp, tramp,
through the forest, which, although enjoyable, sometimes becomes a little wearisome. This particular
day of which I speak made the third we had thus progressed without any startling adventure
occurring to interrupt our voyage; it was not, however, to have so peaceful a close as the
other two.

When within some few miles of the spot where we intended camping for the night, as our larder
was low, I told the trader I would land and procure some fresh meat for supper, and that I
would meet him before long at the trysting-place. My canoe was accordingly directed to the
shore. Taking with me four of the natives, to carry my spare gun and what game I might shoot,
I plunged into the forest.

I did not go very far from the banks of the river, for, as the day was drawing to a close,
I was in hopes of meeting with plenty of game on their way to the water; so I followed the
course of the stream toward our camping-place.

The sudden plunge from the dazzling brilliancy of the sun to the solemn gloom of the forest
made it almost impossible to see anything clearly until my eyes got accustomed to the peculiar
light; so I was perforce obliged for a short time to grope my way cautiously along.

My four attendants followed: one, a lad, bearing my spare gun; two armed with long lances;
and the fourth--whom I always called Nacko, and who was one of the best native hunters I have
ever known, active, brave, and cool in the presence of danger--carrying a gun of his own, which
he could use with something like skill.

Nacko always kept close to my heels, for I think he looked upon himself as my shield and guardian,
and thought his protection necessary to insure my safety; otherwise I should run into danger,
and come to inevitable grief. His coolness and courage had on more than one critical occasion
aided me very materially.

After a quarter of an hour's trampling through grass and bush and prickly thorn, a fine deer
offered himself as a target to my rifle; he was on his way to the river, when, hearing our
approach, he stopped to listen, and in so doing turned his shoulder toward me. Lifting my rifle,
I took quick aim, and fired. The noble beast sprang into the air, and then, falling forward
on his knees, gave a few convulsive struggles, and lay perfectly still.

Leaving two of the natives to convey the carcass to the boat, I pushed on with the others,
hoping to get another shot. I had not proceeded far, when Nacko expressed his opinion that
there were lions in the neighborhood.

"What leads you to think so, Nacko?" I inquired.

Before he could reply there was a rustling in the foliage, and a graceful gazelle bounded into
view, evidently fleeing from some pursuer. Quick as thought my gun was at my shoulder, and
in an instant he was rolling over.

Then, and only then, I became aware that his pursuer was close at hand, as the roar of a lion
fell upon my ear. I began quickly to reload my rifle, but before I had rammed down the bullet
a large lion sprang on the body, while a lioness with her half-grown cub followed at his heels.

With his two fore-paws placed on the body of the gazelle, the lion stood erect, and turned
his face in our direction. No sooner did he see us than he gave utterance to a savage roar,
but seemed uncertain what to do--whether to keep possession of the slaughtered prey or attack
the new. Meanwhile the lioness crouched, growling, down by the side of the dead body, while
the cub licked the blood trickling from the wound.

I never stirred, but kept my eyes fixed upon the lion, telling the lad with the spare gun to
be ready to hand it to me when I should require it. Nacko stood prepared for what might follow.

For a minute we stood thus. I was unwilling to lose the gazelle, but hesitated to fire at the
lion, for, even should I be fortunate enough to kill him, there would be the lioness to contend
with. I determined to run the risk.

Taking a steady aim, I fired. The explosion was followed by a terrific roar. The bullet had
not touched a vital part; I had only succeeded in dangerously wounding him. I had now an angry
and formidable foe to encounter.

Throwing down my empty rifle, I put my hand behind me to receive the other from the boy. He
was a few steps from me, and before he could place it within my reach, I saw the lion making
ready for the fatal spring.

"Fire, Nacko," I cried, as the animal bounded into the air.

Swift as thought the flame leaped from his barrel. I heard the thud of the bullet on the body
of the lion, but it could not check the impetus of his spring, and in another moment I was
hurled violently to the ground, and for a moment lay stunned by the shock.

A dead heavy weight upon my body and legs soon brought me back to consciousness. Opening my
eyes, I found my face within an inch or two of the lion's.

Nacko, seeing me knocked over, had thrown his own gun to the ground and picked up the spare
one, and was now approaching to give the lion his coup de grâce. The animal watched the hunter's
motions, but was unwilling, or too badly wounded, to leave me and attack him.

The bold black approached within six paces of the foe, and aiming behind his ear, fired. A
shuddering quiver ran through the mighty frame; I felt a sudden relief from the oppressive
weight which confined me to the ground as the lion rolled over, dead.

Nacko assisted me to my feet, running his hands over my body to ascertain if any bones were
broken; but with the exception of several severe bruises, and a feeling of general soreness
all over my body, I was unhurt. We looked round for the lioness and her cub; they were nowhere
to be seen, and must have decamped during my encounter with the lion, for which I felt not
a little thankful, as I had no wish for another such encounter.

BIDDY O'DOLAN.

BY MRS. ZADEL B. GUSTAFSON.

CHAPTER II.

Mrs. Brown was not quite so bad as her word, for she did not take away Biddy's doll every night
when Biddy could not give her extra pay. Of course there were many nights when Biddy could
not do this, even with Charley's help. She had, in the first place, to pay for her straw, her
soup, and her bread. Whenever she had earned more than enough for this, Mrs. Brown had always
tried to get it away from her on some pretense or other. Biddy had a brave heart; she had never
been afraid of the rough old woman, and often had her own way.

If you should use your soft little hands to do coarse and heavy work, it would not be long
before they would get out of shape, and become covered with a thick skin. They might still
be very good and dear little hands inside, but they would not so quickly feel the softness
of mamma's cheek. All the pleasure of the sense of touch, which you would then find had been
great and of many kinds, would be lost to you. So it was with Biddy's heart. She had never
had any of the little pleasures, the good times, little hopes and plans, to which all children
have a perfect right. Her hard, friendless, cheerless life had made the outside of Biddy's
brave little heart tough, just as hard, unfit work would toughen your little hands. But the
doll had made a difference to Biddy in every way. She had done all she could for her doll.
She loved it. She had made it a dress from a piece of her own. She had been beaten again and
again for its sake. Almost more than you would be willing to do for your doll, is it not? But
it had done and was doing a thousand times more for Biddy, because Biddy had what the doll
had not--life.

Mrs. Brown sometimes forgot to torment Biddy about the doll, and at other times she seemed
to feel too stupid and dull to care about it. But she remembered quite often enough, and got
away all Biddy's money, and gave Biddy many a scare and heart-ache about it. At last the hard-hearted
old woman went too far, as cruel people are pretty sure to do in the end.

About four months had passed since Biddy first found her doll. The warm winds, the green buds,
and singing-birds of spring had come, when one night Mrs. Brown took the doll away from Biddy,
and told her that unless she could bring her at least two dollars by the close of the week,
she should never see it again.

That night Biddy lay awake a long while thinking over what she could do. It was late in the
night when she whispered to Charley that she had made up her mind, and wanted to see him somewhere
in the morning, and tell him her plan. Charley answered that he would watch for her in the
Bowery near a jewelry shop where they had often stopped to look at the pretty things in the
window. He said he would be there about half past eight o'clock. After this was settled, Biddy
fell asleep.

In the morning the children met as they had agreed, and walked slowly down the Bowery for a
block or two, while Biddy told her plan to Charley.

"I can't tell ye all I've been thinkin'," said Biddy; "I feels all stirred up with thinkin',
like the soup when Grumpy puts the stick in it. I never slept at all till I thinked it out
as how I'd do jist one thing."

"Yis, yis," said Charley, eagerly.

"I'll find a home for Dolly an' me," said Biddy; "I'll begin an' never stop till I gits it."

"Ye'll find a home?" asked Charley. He was a good deal puzzled.

"Yis," said Biddy; "I telled ye my mind's made up. I'll look at every man as I meets, an' I'll
ax the first one as I likes the looks of to take me an' try me. Some of 'em'll be wantin' a
girl, sure."

Charley continued to look so astonished that Biddy explained: "'Most every one wants a girl
to do chores, an' sweep, an' dust, an' make fires, an'--an' sich. I've seen lots o' girls no
better nor me sweepin' in the big houses, with cloths on their heads."

"Ye know all them things?" said Charley.

"An' if I don't, can't I be teached?" said Biddy, almost angrily. This question seemed to make
everything quite sure.

"Now I'm goin' to begin," said Biddy.

She darted away, and ran back to the place where she and Charley had met. Charley slowly followed.
He held his unsold papers under his arm, and stopped by the jewelry window. Biddy had taken
her stand on the corner just opposite. A gentleman with a closed umbrella in his hand, which
he used as a cane, was coming down the Bowery toward them. He did not seem to notice either
of the children; his head was down as if he was thinking. At the same instant another man,
with his Ulster coat flying back, came swiftly from a cross street, and taking the first gentleman
by the arm, said, so loud that both the children heard it: "Bless me! if it isn't Phil Kennedy!
How odd this is! The first day for an age when I'm not thinking of and hunting for you, Phil,
I find you."

"But I'm very busy; you really must not keep me," said the one called Phil Kennedy. He smiled
as he spoke. Biddy saw the smile. She did not wait an instant; she stepped up close in front
of him. "Does yer missus be wantin' a girl?"

Both men looked down at her. The man in the Ulster laughed. "Get along, you little drab!" said
he, in the same loud voice as before.

Biddy did not move, or take her eyes from Phil Kennedy's face. The fingers of her hands were
twisting together as on the day when she had first begged Mrs. Brown for her doll. Biddy did
not know she was doing anything with her hands.

"Be off, I say!" said the man in the Ulster. He spoke very sharply this time. It was like a
blow from a cane.

"Can you read?" said Phil Kennedy to Biddy. He was feeling in his vest pocket as he asked this
question, and drew out a card.

"I knows 'em as can," said Biddy.

He gave her the card. "Get some one to tell you what is on it," said he, "and come to the place
it says--let me see--can you come to-morrow morning about this time?"

Biddy took the card. "Will ye be there?" said Biddy.

"Yes, my little girl, I will." He smiled at her as he spoke. Biddy crossed her hands over the
bag she carried, and walked away without a word.

"I see you are just the same," said the man in the Ulster. He looked vexed. "Who'd believe
you'd give that thankless little beggar your card, while some of your best friends don't know
where to find you!"

"Thankfulness is better than politeness," said Phil Kennedy. "She can be taught to be polite.
If you had looked at her, you would have seen that she thanked me."

The two men then walked away.

Charley had not looked round at Biddy and the gentlemen once. He had looked steadily into the
window, which had on it, in large letters, "Jewelry and Diamonds." His heart beat very fast;
he hardly noticed the gems that flashed and sparkled in the trays and boxes. But when the men
had passed on, he turned and looked up and down the street, and after a moment saw Biddy sitting
on the lower steps of a wholesale store. He hurried up to her. Biddy had been crying a little,
but her eyes were shining with hope. She held the card to Charley.

"I axed 'em in there," said she, "an' they telled me as it's the place where a very nice gentleman
have his home, an' it's his name is on it, too; an' they axed me how ever did I gits that gentleman's
card. An', oh, Charley, do ye thinks as his missus'll be wantin' me? An', oh, do ye think ye
can hook away my dolly from Grumpy?"

Biddy stopped for breath. Charley looked up at the windows of the store, as if he were trying
with all his might to see just how they were made; then he looked back toward the Bowery again.

"How queer ye look!" said Biddy.

Then for the first time Biddy thought of what Charley might be thinking. She rose quickly from
the steps.

"Here, ye take the card," said she. "I'll mebbe lose 'em, or she'll be after gittin' it. An'
ye shall go with me in the mornin'; an' if I gits a home, I'll speak for ye. Do ye mind that,
Charley? They'll be after wantin' of a boy as much as a girl; an' I can give ye a fust-rate
riccommend, so I can."

Biddy made him take the card, and punched him once or twice to make sure of his attention.

"Did ye look at him, Charley?" she asked as they walked along. "Did ye mind the two kind eyes
of him? The minute ever he looked at me I warn't a bit afeard; an' I felt as I could work my
fingers to the bone for him."

Biddy went the next day to the place written on the card Mr. Phil Kennedy had given her. She
teased and coaxed Charley a long time before she could get him to go with her, for he was very
bashful, and hung back all the way. While she stood at the foot of the steps, looking up to
be sure about the number, Mr. Phil Kennedy himself came to the door, and called her in. He
looked just as kind and smiling as on the day before, and Biddy bobbed her curly head up and
down, to show him how glad she was. She was so eager that she did not think to say "Good-morning";
but she cried out, in a glad, piping voice, "Here's Charley, sir; an' the best boy ye can ever
see! If ye wants a boy to take care of the furniss an' fetch the coal; an' he can run of errants
faster nor me; an' he mended me doll. Charley--"

While Biddy talked she kept making little springs and jumps at Charley, who kept edging away,
so that Biddy was likely to get half way down the block, when all at once Charley turned, and
showed his speed by running out of sight very quickly indeed. Biddy looked as if she was going
to run after him; but Mr. Phil Kennedy, who stood laughing in his doorway, called after her,
and Biddy came back. He led her through the hall, into a very pleasant room. There was an open
fire, a bright rug in front of it, a mocking-bird in a cage in the window, and a beautiful
lady sitting in an arm-chair, with her feet on a cushion. The lady was pale; her hands were
thin and white; there were crutches beside her chair; but she looked as if she were very happy;
and when she smiled at Biddy, Biddy could not have told why she felt as if her heart was filling
her whole body.

"Let her sit here near me, Phil," said the lady. Then, when Biddy was seated between them,
they asked her a great many questions, and Biddy answered them all as well as she knew how.
Both spoke so kindly, sometimes the lady and sometimes the gentleman, and seemed to care so
much to know all about her, that Biddy took a new interest in her own story, and told it very
well. Like the stories of thousands of other friendless children, Biddy's story was very simple.
She didn't know where she was born. She had never seen her parents. She didn't know if she
had any brothers or sisters; she did know she had never seen any. She had never been at school.
She had never slept on a real bed only when she was in the hospital. She had had a "reel good
time" in the hospital. A little girl had given her some flowers. She had a friend; his name
was Charley; and if they wanted a boy to do things, he was the best boy. He had mended her
doll. She wanted a home for her doll. Grumpy wouldn't let her have her doll; that was why she
wanted a home. And if they would let her bring her doll, she would do all she could, and try
hard to please them.

When Biddy came to the end of her story, Mr. Phil Kennedy said:

"This lady is my sister. She is the only near friend I have in the world, Biddy. If you come
to live with us, we will take good care of you, and you must take good care of her. She is
lame, and can only walk a very little. You must watch, and learn to save her trouble. She will
teach you the things she wants to have you do, but you must not make her tell you the same
things over and over again."

Biddy sat very still, and when Mr. Kennedy paused, she waited for him to speak more. He seemed
to think for a few minutes very deeply, then he said:

"After you have learned what you are to do, Biddy, I shall want you to help me find some other
little girl who has no friends, and needs a home just as you do, and I can perhaps find a home
for her too. I have heard all you have said about Charley. There are reasons why I can not
help him just at this time. But I promise you that I will remember about him, and will see
what I can do for him as soon as I can. Now, Biddy"--and Mr. Kennedy smiled, with a very merry
look--"what wages do you think we ought to pay you?"

Biddy did not seem to even hear this question, she was so much interested in the other things
Mr. Kennedy had said; and the moment he stopped speaking she asked if she might really have
her doll, and when they had satisfied her on this point, she told them Charley would bring
it. Then she seemed to suddenly feel how great a change had come in her life. She jumped down
from her chair, looked round the room, her breath coming quick, then at her new friends.

"Oh, it's home it'll be! An' if ye'll let me begin," she cried, "I'll try to be so good, so
I will!"

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

HELPING HIMSELF TO CAKE.

BY M. E.

  Fast asleep fell Madeline,
    Fairy-book held in one hand,
  In the other slice of cake--
    Slept, and drifted to the land
  Where the spirits of the dreams
    Many wondrous visions keep--
  Visions that are only seen
    When the eyes are closed in sleep.

  Dreamed the little Madeline
    That she was a princess fair,
  Beautiful as that proud maid
    Famous for her golden hair.
  And at splendid feast she sat,
    And a prince sat by her side,
  Handsome as the prince who won
    "Sleeping Beauty" for his bride;

  Dreamed a cake--a wedding cake--
    She dispensed to courtly throng,
  Cutting it with knife of gold,
    While the "Blue Bird" sang a song.
  Largest piece received the prince,
    And he whispered, "This is bliss,"
  As he kissed her hand and gave
    Ring of diamond with the kiss.

  But ere long the dream grew dim,
    Feast and courtiers vanished quite,
  Diamond ring and lover too
    Softly faded from her sight;
  And the only prince she saw
    (She was once more wide-awake)
  Was a little prince of mice
    Nibbling at her slice of cake.

VIÂ BRINDISI.

BY HARLAN H. BALLARD.

We left India in a bag of leather. Dark and narrow it was, but greater messengers than Postal
Cards have to wait a while in darkness before the time comes for them to tell their message.
Flowers have to--so do butterflies.

Do not think from this that I was lonely. Oh no. I rode next to a grand Letter in white, and
not far from a portly Circular in buff. However, as he was not of my clasp, I shunned him.
The Letter, on the contrary, charmed me; he seemed so self-contained, so wrapped up in his
own thoughts. Besides, he bore a crest and a monogram and a superscription to be proud of.
He was quite reserved; but before we passed Aden his angularity had so far worn off that I
learned that he was commissioned to bear a message to a dainty young lady in the southwest
of England. What the message was I could only guess. Letters are not nearly so frank about
such matters as I have been taught to consider proper. Still, it must have been something very
delightful, for one could tell from his crest and monogram that the Letter had been sent by
a person of gentle blood, and in fact he told me that his master was a handsome young man in
a military coat. Moreover, he said that this young man had given him a very warm pressure of
the hand at parting (which had left a deep impression on him), and had even touched him lightly
to his lips.

Possibly you have never reflected upon the fact that Postal Cards and Letters have any feelings.
But wait. Perhaps one of our race is waiting at this very moment to undeceive you. After the
right one comes along and tells you his message, you will know thenceforward that we are quite
alive, and have great power over the affections.

Post-office clerks have no sentiment. All along the way they handled us as rudely as if we
had been mere blank pieces of pasteboard. One or two of them coolly stared at me till I was
very red in the face, and then turned me over and stared again, until I felt as if I were getting
read in my back. I am told that such rudeness is not uncommon. As if this were not enough,
the fellow then laid me upon my back, and picking up a heavy instrument, struck me a violent
blow in the face. It was as if I had been stamped upon, and I carry the marks of it to this
day. Why he did it, I do not know, unless it was because I was a foreigner.

The gentleman for whom I was travelling was a student, and I was carrying a glad message to
an old chum of his in Massachusetts. I lived with this student some weeks before he sent me
on my errand. As I lay in a pigeon-hole of his desk, I often saw him get out his books and
study. He sometimes read them aloud. He liked Horace best of all. He would light a cigar, put
his feet on the desk, and read Satires as if he were very happy indeed. I soon became fond
of Horace too. I liked to listen to his queer stories of life in Rome, of his love of country
life, and of his dear friends Virgil and Mæcenas.

My favorite story was the "Trip on a Canal-Boat." I used to picture to myself the jolly poet
sitting by the prow of the quaint boat, watching the twinkling lights alongshore; and listening
to the loud songs and rude jests of the barge-men. So when I learned that I was to be sent
on a long journey, you may believe it was no small comfort to me to learn that I was to go
"viâ Brindisi." I was to visit the very town to which the poet had travelled so long ago. Perhaps
between here and Rome I might even catch a glimpse of the old canal. Fortunately there was
a little crack in the side of the bag where I lay, and I managed to get a peep of the town.
I could not see anything which satisfied me much. Brindisi is not what Brundusium was. When
Virgil died there, when Cæsar marched against it with golden eagles, when Antony threatened
there the man who afterward became Augustus, it was a great city. It had an excellent harbor,
strong fortifications, and sixty thousand inhabitants. Now it is nothing.

I can not tell you of all the interesting places I passed on my way. In fact, I hardly know
myself where I did go, for I slept most of the time, and when awake, my bruised head ached
so badly that I did not care to be curious.

In fact, until I reached Brindisi I had only once attempted to peep out. I did wish to view
the Suez Canal. But for that I should have been obliged to go around the Cape of Storms. To
be sure, in that case I might have caught a glimpse of Table Mountain and its vaporous "table-cloth,"
and have seen the rocky isle where Napoleon was caged. But that would have been small compensation
for the tedious voyage. So I regarded the Suez Canal as in some sort a friend, and I tried
to see it. But the vulgar yellow Circular I told you of edged himself directly in front of
me, and hid the view completely. I had no more remarkable adventures until we reached the Post-office
in London. I did not suffer at all on the Channel, though my courtly friend the Letter and
his pages were all quite distressed. He was unkind enough to say that my escape was probably
due to the fact that I had nothing inside. I excused the discourtesy, under the circumstances,
and was heartily sorry to part from him at London. Here I was taken out and given a breath
of fresh air. But here, also, I suffered. Another clerk seized me, and struck me a violent
blow on the breast. He certainly left a red mark upon me. I think that I shall not recover
from my ill-treatment.

I have lived long enough to reach the one to whom I was sent, and to give him glad congratulations
on his-- But, there! I almost told my secret. It is my greatest fault.

My life is nearly over. I meant to tell you of Bombay, its race-course, its fine harbor which
gives it its name, its wealthy Parsees, and good Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy, but I am too much
worn out. I have had my face photographed for you. You can see my scars. You must not turn
me over and read my glad message. That would not be fair. I too have a superscription. I have
been of use. I have been told that after my death I may live again; that I may, perhaps, live
in white, and become a grand Letter. I may even get a monogram and a crest. It is not impossible.
Other messengers of glad tidings die and live again. Flowers do--and butterflies.

POP'S IDEA OF FUN.

BY MRS. FRANK McCARTHY.

Only this morning Pop punched me in the ribs, and winked, and whispered behind his hand, "Any
more sprees on hand, Bob?" I was disgusted, and didn't say anything. If he'd been a boy of
my size just then, things would have been different; but Pop is a kind of man it isn't pleasant
to offend. I smiled in a sickly way, but I was never more disgusted in my life. Any more sprees!
I should think not. I'll leave it to any one if his kind of sprees pay. "Count me in for the
next racket, Bob," he said at the breakfast table, and then he winked again. I declare I was
that sick I let my buckwheat cake get cold.

Here's the way it was. We live in a nobby kind of place, you see. Almost everybody owns his
own house and grounds, and spends all his spare time in fixing up. Most of the gentlemen go
over to New York to business every day, but before they go, and after they come back, they're
always fussing around, making little alterations, and what they call improvements. It makes
'em awful mad if the place is out of order the seventieth part of an inch. The ladies raise
flowers, fix baskets and roses, and all that kind of gimcracks, and the men go pottering about,
making more fuss over their plots of ground than a big farmer out West does over his thousands
of acres. Well, we boys get together sometimes and arrange everything to suit ourselves. In
a single night it'll be like a transformation scene at a pantomime--maybe not so pretty, but
every bit as funny. Fun! We've laughed ready to split our sides to see the poor old barber
come limping up for his pole in front of the doctor's, and the doctor go blustering down there
for his hitching post; a lot of paving-stones against the door of the real-estate office, and
the cows and chickens running loose about town.

But this particular lark was what we called a specialty. Only gates were to be touched, and
these were to undergo a regular tribulation. The weather was about right--muggy--and the mud
in some places knee-deep. We arranged all the preliminaries at recess, and Tom Jones was to
go around about nine o'clock and let us know if the coast was clear; but he wasn't to give
our regular call--all the place knows that. It goes something in this way, "Ki-yuah-yuah, yoo-o,"
with a prolonged howl at the end. We always drop it when anything secret's on hand. It was
agreed upon that Tom Jones should go to each house, if all was right, and have a coughing and
sneezing spell that wouldn't arouse suspicion; then we were to creep out, when the folks were
gone to bed, and go to work. And it happened to be work that time, you'd better believe!

We were all sitting around the table when the clock struck nine. Pop had his spectacles on,
and was reading an editorial to ma, the girls were busy with their lessons, and I had finished
my last example, when all at once we heard a terrible coughing and sneezing out in the street.
That was the worst of Tom Jones--he always overdid his part. If he'd had pneumonia, whooping-cough,
asthma, and bronchitis, and been hired to go round with a cough medicine to cure 'em, he couldn't
have turned himself further inside out. Of course Pop began to notice it, and ma looked up
in alarm. "Why," said ma, "that boy's got a terrible cold!"

"Fearful!" said Pop, with a queer twist of his under lip; and when Tom Jones, like a big donkey,
went across the street to Jim Clancy's house, and began the whole thing over again, Pop wanted
to know why that boy's cold was like the paper he held in his hand. We all gave it up, and
Pop said because it was periodical. Ma and the girls looked mystified, but I was afraid then
he'd tumbled to something, and couldn't help getting red, to save my life. That's the worst
of my plagued skin--it's so thin the blood shows right through it.

There were no more of the boys' houses in our avenue, and pretty soon we all went to bed. I
slept in the little room on the second floor off the hall; it was an easy thing to climb out
the window, and down by the Virginia creeper to the front garden. I went around to our place
of meeting, and there they all were. The wind had sprung up pretty brisk, and there was a thin
coating of ice over the mud; but that was all the better for the gates we wanted to bury. We
owed a grudge to old Jake Van Couter, and we made up our minds he'd have a nice time getting
his gate back. The miserable old caboodle was rusty, and nearly tore our nails off, but we
got it loose at last, and hauled it off to a marshy lot, where we sunk it in the mud. Then
we changed the doctor's gate to the judge's, and to avert suspicion we took our own gates off
with the rest. We were getting pretty well tired out and ready for home, and had laid my gate
up against a neighboring fence, when who should be standing right there in the shadow of the
wall but Pop! We were all so thunder-struck that we didn't move, and to my surprise Pop began
to laugh and beckon to the boys to come closer. They were not to be caught by that bait, and
stood off pretty considerably, when Pop whispered over to us, in quite a jolly tone of voice:
"Don't be afraid, boys. I like to see you enjoy yourselves. I was a boy once myself. Bless
your hearts! I like fun yet as well as anybody."

Then he laughed ready to split, bent himself double, and we all began to feel easy, and laugh
too. Tom Jones said he wished his father was like mine, and Pop began to encourage us to do
more. We were so spurred on by him that we hardly left a gate in the place where it belonged,
Pop going along with us, acting as a kind of scout, he said, and seeing that nobody was near
to disturb us. Once or twice he gave a signal of alarm, and we all crouched down as still as
mice, Pop stiller than any of us. I never was so dumfounded in my life, for I'd never seen
Pop very jolly that way before. The boys were delighted with him; they all agreed to make him
president of our club, and Pop said he'd take the position when he got back from the Legislature.

Well, we'd come to the conclusion the place was completely done, and Jim Clancy proposed we
should go home. Jim had torn his hands rather badly with Uncle Jake's gate, and didn't feel
very good, when suddenly Pop said:

"Yes, boys, of course we'll go home pretty soon, when we're through, you know; but we must
put all the gates back in their places again first!"

We all looked at each other aghast for a minute. "Back again!" cried the fellows. "Well, I
guess not!" "Not much!" "Hardly!" and all sorts of derisive refusals went round.

Pop stood among us, whirling his cane, smiling all the time, and said: "Oh, yes you will, boys,
when you think of it a minute. You've had your fun, you know; but it won't do to go too far.
I'm a justice of the peace, you see, and this innocent little racket comes under the head of
'malicious mischief.' You could all be sent to jail; and no matter how badly I'd feel, I'd
have to act under the law. There's where it is, you see; people are so hard on boys they won't
let them enjoy themselves. It's too bad; but never mind, we've had our fun anyway. Now let's
get to work in earnest. Here, we'll begin with this gate. Lift it up there, Jim; hold on the
other side, Bobby, my boy. Now we have it--all together." And as true as you live, we actually
found ourselves walking along with the gate between us. From that gate we went to another,
and another. I don't know how it was, but we just plodded along, and did what Pop said. He
was laughing, and joking, and flourishing his cane; but, oh, how tired we were! How our hands
and our feet and our hearts ached, and how sickening it all was! The most sickening of anything
was to hear Pop laugh and carry on all the time, as if this was the cream of the joke. I tell
you, we were all mad enough; and when we got to old Jake Van Couter's, we just rebelled. We
all hated Jake, anyhow; and Tom Jones he stood right out in the road, and said Jake was a mean
old curmudgeon; and then Pop got hold of Tom before we knew it, and down came his cane with
a whack.

"Now, boys," says Pop, "fun's fun, and I'm as fond of it as anybody, but I don't see any use
of spoiling a good time in this kind of way. Jake couldn't put that gate back, to save his
life, and it goes to my heart to hear hard words against the poor old man. He's bent double
with rheumatism, he's old and he's poor, and he's no subject for your fun. Take a fellow like
me if you want fun. I don't mind it. Do what you like to me, but spare poor old Jake."

Well, we just looked at one another in mute disgust, but we didn't care to dispute any further
with Pop. We plunked along that nasty old freezing road, and we yanked Uncle Jake's gate out
of the mud, and carried it half a mile, our nails hanging off, and tears of rage and mortification
rolling down our cheeks, with Pop laughing like a good one all the while, declaring that he
didn't see how anybody could be so hard on boys; they would have their fun, and for his part
he thought it did them good, and it took him back to his youth again; he hadn't had such a
spree for many a year.

We groaned and looked at each other, and each of us dropped off silently and gloomily at our
separate doors. A whole month has gone by without a proposition for fun of any kind, and I'll
leave it to anybody if it ain't enough to disgust a fellow to have Pop winking at me behind
his hand, and telling me to count him in for the next racket.

ALMOST TIME!

  Almost time for the pretty white daisies
    Out of their sleep to awaken at last,
  And over the meadows, with grasses and clover,
    To bud and to blossom, and grow so fast.
  Almost time for the buttercups yellow,
    The ferns and the flowers, the roses and all,
  To waken from slumber, and merrily hasten
    To gladden our hearts at the spring's first call.

  Almost time for the skies to grow bluer,
    And breezes to soften, and days to grow long;
  For eyes to grow brighter, and hearts to grow gladder,
    And Earth to rejoice in her jubilant song.
  Almost time for the sweetest of seasons:
    Nearer it comes with each new-born day,
  And soon the smile of the beautiful spring-time
    Winter's cold shadows will chase away!

REMARKABLE ANIMALS.

