She set about to create her nature and order her fortunes with that sort of downright energy
with which resolute people always attack the problem of a new human existence. This child should
be happy; the rocks on which her mother was wrecked she should never strike upon,--they were
all marked on Elsie's chart. Love had been the root of all poor Isella's troubles,--and Agnes
never should know love, till taught it safely by a husband of Elsie's own choosing.

The first step of security was in naming her for the chaste Saint Agnes, and placing her girlhood
under her special protection. Secondly, which was quite as much to the point, she brought her
up laboriously in habits of incessant industry,--never suffering her to be out of her sight,
or to have any connection or friendship, except such as could be carried on under the immediate
supervision of her piercing black eyes. Every night she put her to bed as if she had been an
infant, and, wakening her again in the morning, took her with her in all her daily toils,--of
which, to do her justice, she performed all the hardest portion, leaving to the girl just enough
to keep her hands employed and her head steady.

The peculiar circumstance which had led her to choose the old town of Sorrento for her residence,
in preference to any of the beautiful villages which impearl that fertile plain, was the existence
there of a flourishing convent dedicated to Saint Agnes, under whose protecting shadow her
young charge might more securely spend the earlier years of her life.

With this view, having hired the domicile we have already described, she lost no time in making
the favorable acquaintance of the sisterhood,--never coming to them empty-handed. The finest
oranges of her garden, the whitest flax of her spinning, were always reserved as offerings
at the shrine of the patroness whom she sought to propitiate for her grandchild.

In her earliest childhood the little Agnes was led toddling to the shrine by her zealous relative;
and at the sight of her fair, sweet, awe-struck face, with its viny mantle of encircling curls,
the torpid bosoms of the sisterhood throbbed with a strange, new pleasure, which they humbly
hoped was not sinful,--as agreeable things, they found, generally were. They loved the echoes
of her little feet down the damp, silent aisles of their chapel, and her small, sweet, slender
voice, as she asked strange baby-questions, which, as usual with baby-questions, hit all the
insoluble points of philosophy and theology exactly on the head.

The child became a special favorite with the Abbess, Sister Theresa, a tall, thin, bloodless,
sad-eyed woman, who looked as if she might have been cut out of one of the glaciers of Monte
Rosa, but in whose heart the little fair one had made herself a niche, pushing her way up through,
as you may have seen a lovely blue-fringed gentian standing in a snow-drift of the Alps with
its little ring of melted snow around it.

Sister Theresa offered to take care of the child at any time when the grandmother wished to
be about her labors; and so, during her early years, the little one was often domesticated
for days together at the Convent. A perfect mythology of wonderful stories encircled her, which
the good sisters were never tired of repeating to each other. They were the simplest sayings
and doings of childhood,--handfuls of such wild-flowers as bespread the green turf of nursery-life
everywhere, but miraculous blossoms in the eyes of these good women, whom Saint Agnes had unwittingly
deprived of any power of making comparisons or ever having Christ's sweetest parable of the
heavenly kingdom enacted in homes of their own.

Old Jocunda, the porteress, never failed to make a sensation with her one stock-story of how
she found the child standing on her head and crying,--having been put into this reversed position
in consequence of climbing up on a high stool to get her little fat hand into the vase of holy
water, failing in which Christian attempt, her heels went up and her head down, greatly to
her dismay.

"Nevertheless," said old Jocunda, gravely, "it showed an edifying turn in the child; and when
I lifted the little thing up, it stopped crying the minute its little fingers touched the water,
and it made a cross on its forehead as sensible as the oldest among us. Ah, sisters! there's
grace there, or I'm mistaken."

All the signs of an incipient saint were, indeed, manifested in the little one. She never played
the wild and noisy plays of common children, but busied herself in making altars and shrines,
which she adorned with the prettiest flowers of the gardens, and at which she worked hour after
hour in the quietest and happiest earnestness. Her dreams were a constant source of wonder
and edification in the Convent, for they were all of angels and saints; and many a time, after
hearing one, the sisterhood crossed themselves, and the Abbess said, "Ex oribus parvulorum."
Always sweet, dutiful, submissive, cradling herself every night with a lulling of sweet hymns
and infant murmur of prayers, and found sleeping in her little white bed with her crucifix
clasped to her bosom, it was no wonder that the Abbess thought her the special favorite of
her divine patroness, and, like her, the subject of an early vocation to be the celestial bride
of One fairer than the children of men, who should snatch her away from all earthly things,
to be united to Him in a celestial paradise.

As the child grew older, she often sat at evening, with wide, wondering eyes, listening over
and over again to the story of the fair Saint Agnes:--How she was a princess, living in her
father's palace, of such exceeding beauty and grace that none saw her but to love her, yet
of such sweetness and humility as passed all comparison; and how, when a heathen prince would
have espoused her to his son, she said, "Away from me, tempter! for I am betrothed to a lover
who is greater and fairer than any earthly suitor,--he is so fair that the sun and moon are
ravished by his beauty, so mighty that the angels of heaven are his servants"; how she bore
meekly with persecutions and threatenings and death for the sake of this unearthly love; and
when she had poured out her blood, how she came to her mourning friends in ecstatic vision,
all white and glistening, with a fair lamb by her side, and bade them weep not for her, because
she was reigning with Him whom on earth she had preferred to all other lovers. There was also
the legend of the fair Cecilia, the lovely musician whom angels had rapt away to their choirs;
the story of that queenly saint, Catharine, who passed through the courts of heaven, and saw
the angels crowned with roses and lilies, and the Virgin on her throne, who gave her the wedding-ring
that espoused her to be the bride of the King Eternal.

Fed with such legends, it could not be but that a child with a sensitive, nervous organization
and vivid imagination should have grown up with an unworldly and spiritual character, and that
a poetic mist should have enveloped all her outward perceptions similar to that palpitating
veil of blue and lilac vapor that enshrouds the Italian landscape.

Nor is it to be marvelled at, if the results of this system of education went far beyond what
the good old grandmother intended. For, though a stanch good Christian, after the manner of
those times, yet she had not the slightest mind to see her grand-daughter a nun; on the contrary,
she was working day and night to add to her dowry, and had in her eye a reputable middle-aged
blacksmith, who was a man of substance and prudence, to be the husband and keeper of her precious
treasure. In a home thus established she hoped to enthrone herself, and provide for the rearing
of a generation of stout-limbed girls and boys who should grow up to make a flourishing household
in the land. This subject she had not yet broached to her grand-daughter, though daily preparing
to do so,--deferring it, it must be told, from a sort of jealous, yearning craving to have
wholly to herself the child for whom she had lived so many years.

Antonio, the blacksmith to whom this honor was destined, was one of those broad-backed, full-chested,
long-limbed fellows one shall often see around Sorrento, with great, kind, black eyes like
those of an ox, and all the attributes of a healthy, kindly, animal nature. Contentedly he
hammered away at his business; and certainly, had not Dame Elsie of her own providence elected
him to be the husband of her fair grand-daughter, he would never have thought of the matter
himself; but, opening the black eyes aforenamed upon the girl, he perceived that she was fair,
and also received an inner light through Dame Elsie as to the amount of her dowry; and, putting
these matters together, conceived a kindness for the maiden, and awaited with tranquillity
the time when he should be allowed to commence his wooing.

REST AND MOTION.

Motion and Rest are the two feet upon which existence goes. All action and all definite power
result from the intimacy and consent of these opposite principles. If, therefore, one would
construct any serviceable mechanism, he must incorporate into it, and commonly in a manifold
way, a somewhat passive, a somewhat contrary, and, as it were, inimical to action, though action
be the sole aim and use of his contrivance. Thus, the human body is penetrated by the passive
and powerless skeleton, which is a mere weight upon the muscles, a part of the burden that,
nevertheless, it enables them to bear. The lever of Archimedes would push the planet aside,
provided only it were supplied with its indispensable complement, a fulcrum, or fixity: without
this it will not push a pin. The block of the pulley must have its permanent attachment; the
wheel of the locomotive engine requires beneath it the fixed rail; the foot of the pedestrian,
solid earth; the wing of the bird rests upon the relatively stable air to support his body,
and upon his body to gain power over the air. Nor is it alone of operations mechanical that
the law holds good: it is universal; and its application to pure mental action may be shown
without difficulty. A single act of the mind is represented by the formation of a simple sentence.
The process consists, first, in the mind's fixing upon and resting in an object, which thereby
becomes the subject of the sentence; and, secondly, in predication, which is movement, represented
by the verb. The reader will easily supply himself with instances and illustrations of this,
and need not, therefore, be detained.

In the economy of animal and vegetable existence, as in all that Nature makes, we observe the
same inevitable association. Here is perpetual fixity of form, perpetual flux of constituent,--the
ideas of Nature never changing, the material realization of them never ceasing to change. A
horse is a horse through all the ages; yet the horse of to-day is changed from the horse of
yesterday.

If one of these principles seem to get the start, and to separate itself, the other quickly
follows. No sooner, for example, does any person perform an initial deed, proceeding purely
(let us suppose) from free will, than Nature in him begins to repose therein, and consequently
inclines to its repetition for the mere reason that it has been once done. This is Habit, which
makes action passive, and is the greatest of labor-saving inventions. Custom is the habit of
society, holding the same relation to progressive genius. It is the sleeping partner in the
great social firm; it is thought and force laid up and become fixed capital. Annihilate this,--as
in the French Revolution was attempted,--and society is at once reduced to its bare immediate
force, and must scratch the soil with its fingers.

Sometimes these principles seem to be strictly hostile to each other and in no respect reciprocal,
as where habit in the individual and custom in society oppose themselves bitterly to free will
and advancing thought: yet even here the special warfare is but the material of a broader and
more subtile alliance. An obstinate fixity in one's bosom often serves as a rock on which to
break the shell of some hard inclosed faculty. Upon stepping-stones of our slain selves we
mount to new altitudes. So do the antagonisms of these principles in the broader field of society
equally conceal a fundamental reciprocation. By the opposition to his thought of inert and
defiant custom, the thinker is compelled to interrogate his consciousness more deeply and sacredly;
and being cut off from that sympathy which has its foundation in similarity of temperaments
and traditions, he must fall back with simpler abandonment upon the pure idea, and must seek
responses from that absolute nature of man which the men of his time are not human enough to
afford him. This absolute nature, this divine identity in man, underrunning times, temperaments,
individualities, is that which poet and prophet must address: yet to speak to it, they must
speak from it; to be heard by the universal heart, they must use a universal language. But
this marvellous vernacular can be known to him alone whose heart is universal, in whom even
self-love is no longer selfish, but is a pure respect to his own being as it is Being. Well
it is, therefore, that here and there one man should be so denied all petty and provincial
claim to attention, that only by speaking to Man as Man, and in the sincerest vernacular of
the human soul, he can find audience; for thus it shall become his need, for the sake of joy
no less than of duty, to know himself purely as man, and to yield himself wholly to his immortal
humanity. Thus does fixed custom force back the most moving souls, until they touch the springs
of inspiration, and are indued with power: then, at once potent and pure, they gush into history,
to be influences, to make epochs, and to prevail over that through whose agency they first
obtained strength.

Thus, everywhere, through all realms, do the opposite principles of Rest and Motion depend
upon and reciprocally empower each other. In every act, mechanical, mental, social, must both
take part and consent together; and upon the perfection of this consent depends the quality
of the action. Every progress is conditioned on a permanence; every permanence lives but in
and through progress. Where all, and with equal and simultaneous impulse, strives to move,
nothing can move, but chaos is come; where all refuses to move, and therefore stagnates, decay
supervenes, which is motion, though a motion downward.

Having made this general statement, we proceed to say that there are two chief ways in which
these universal opposites enter into reciprocation. The first and more obvious is the method
of alternation, or of rest from motion; the other, that of continuous equality, which may be
called a rest in motion. These two methods, however, are not mutually exclusive, but may at
once occupy the same ground, and apply to the same objects,--as oxygen and nitrogen severally
fill the same space, to the full capacity of each, as though the other were absent.

Instances of the alternation, either total or approximative, of these principles are many and
familiar. They may be seen in the systole and diastole of the heart; in the alternate activity
and passivity of the lungs; in the feet of the pedestrian, one pausing while the other proceeds;
in the waving wings of birds; in the undulation of the sea; in the creation and propagation
of sound, and the propagation, at least, of light; in the alternate acceleration and retardation
of the earth's motion in its orbit, and in the waving of its poles. In all vibrations and undulations
there is a going and returning, between which must exist minute periods of repose; but in many
instances the return is simply a relaxation or a subsidence, and belongs, therefore, to the
department of rest. Discourse itself, it will be observed, has its pauses, seasons of repose
thickly interspersed in the action of speech; and besides these has its accented and unaccented
syllables, emphatic and unemphatic words,--illustrating thus in itself the law which it here
affirms. History is full of the same thing; the tides of faith and feeling now ascend and now
subside, through all the ages, in the soul of humanity; each new affirmation prepares the way
for new doubt, each honest doubt in the end furthers and enlarges belief; the pendulum of destiny
swings to and fro forever, and earth's minutest life and heaven's remotest star swing with
it, rising but to fall, and falling that they may rise again. So does rhythm go to the very
bottom of the world: the heart of Nature pulses, and the echoing shore and all music and the
throbbing heart and swaying destinies of man but follow and proclaim the law of her inward life.

The universality and mutual relationship of these primal principles have, perhaps, been sufficiently
set forth; and this may be the place to emphasize the second chief point,--that the perfection
of this mutuality measures the degree of excellence in all objects and actions. It will everywhere
appear, that, the more regular and symmetrical their relationship, the more beautiful and acceptable
are its results. For example, sounds proceeding from vibrations wherein the strokes and pauses
are in invariable relation are such sounds as we denominate musical. Accordingly all sounds
are musical at a sufficient distance, since the most irregular undulations are, in a long journey
through the air, wrought to an equality, and made subject to exact law,--as in this universe
all irregularities are sure to be in the end. Thus, the thunder, which near at hand is a wild
crash, or nearer yet a crazy crackle, is by distance deepened and refined into that marvellous
bass which we all know. And doubtless the jars, the discords, and moral contradictions of time,
however harsh and crazy at the outset, flow into exact undulation along the ether of eternity,
and only as a pure proclamation of law attain to the ear of Heaven. Nay, whoso among men is
able to plant his ear high enough above this rude clangor may, in like manner, so hear it,
that it shall be to him melody, solace, fruition, a perpetual harvest of the heart's dearest
wishes, a perpetual corroboration of that which faith affirms.

We may therefore easily understand why musical sounds are musical, why they are acceptable
and moving, while those affront the sense in which the minute reposes are capricious, and,
as it were, upon ill terms with the movements. The former appeal to what is most universal
and cosmical within us,--to the pure Law, the deep Nature in our breasts; they fall in with
the immortal rhythm of life itself, which the others encounter and impugn.

It will be seen also that verse differs from prose as musical sounds from ordinary tones; and
having so deep a ground in Nature, rhythmical speech will be sure to continue, in spite of
objection and protest, were it, if possible, many times more energetic than that of Mr. Carlyle.
But always the best prose has a certain rhythmic emphasis and cadence: in Milton's grander
passages there is a symphony of organs, the bellows of the mighty North (one might say) filling
their pipes; Goldsmith's flute still breathes through his essays; and in the ampler prose of
Bacon there is the swell of a summer ocean, and you can half fancy you hear the long soft surge
falling on the shore. Also in all good writing, as in good reading, the pauses suffer no slight;
they are treated handsomely; and each sentence rounds gratefully and clearly into rest. Sometimes,
indeed, an attempt is made to react in an illegitimate way this force of firm pauses, as in
exaggerated French style, wherein the writer seems never to stride or to run, but always to
jump like a frog.

Again, as reciprocal opposites, our two principles should be of equal dignity and value. To
concede, however, the equality of rest with motion must, for an American, be not easy; and
it is therefore in point to assert and illustrate this in particular. What better method of
doing so than that of taking some one large instance in Nature, if such can be found, and allowing
this, after fair inspection, to stand for all others? And, as it happens, just what we require
is quite at hand;--the alternation of Day and Night, of sleep and waking, is so broad, obvious,
and familiar, and so mingled with our human interests, that its two terms are easily subjected
to extended and clear comparison; while also it deserves discussion upon its own account, apart
from its relation to the general subject.

Sleep is now popularly known to be coextensive with Life,--inseparable from vital existence
of whatever grade. The rotation of the earth is accordingly implied, as was happily suggested
by Paley, in the constitution of every animal and every plant. It is quite evident, therefore,
that this necessity was not laid upon, man through some inadvertence of Nature; on the contrary,
this arrangement must be such as to her seemed altogether suitable, and, if suitable, economical.
Eager men, however, avaricious of performance, do not always regard it with entire complacency.
Especially have the saints been apt to set up a controversy with Nature in this particular,
submitting with infinite unwillingness to the law by which they deem themselves, as it were,
defrauded of life and activity in so large measure. In form, to be sure, their accusation lies
solely against themselves; they reproach themselves with sleeping beyond need, sleeping for
the mere luxury and delight of it; but the venial self-deception is quite obvious,--nothing
plainer than that it is their necessity itself which is repugnant to them, and that their wills
are blamed for not sufficiently withstanding and thwarting it. Pious William Law, for example,
is unable to disparage sleep enough for his content. "The poorest, dullest refreshment of the
body," he calls it,... "such a dull, stupid state of existence, that even among animals we
despise them most which are most drowsy." You should therefore, so he urges, "begin the day
in the spirit of renouncing sleep." Baxter, also,--at that moment a walking catalogue and epitome
of all diseases,--thought himself guilty for all sleep he enjoyed beyond three hours a day.
More's Utopians were to rise at very early hours, and attend scientific lectures before breakfast.

Ambition and cupidity, which, in their way, are no whit less earnest and self-sacrificing than
sanctity, equally look upon sleep as a wasteful concession to bodily wants, and equally incline
to limit such concession to its mere minimum. Commonplaces accordingly are perpetually circulating
in the newspapers, especially in such as pretend to a didactic tone, wherein all persons are
exhorted to early rising, to resolute abridgment of the hours of sleep, and the like. That
Sir Walter Raleigh slept but five hours in twenty-four; that John Hunter, Frederick the Great,
and Alexander von Humboldt slept but four; that the Duke of Wellington made it an invariable
rule to "turn out" whenever he felt inclined to turn over, and John Wesley to arise upon his
first awaking: instances such as these appear on parade with the regularity of militia troops
at muster; and the precept duly follows,--"Whoso would not be insignificant, let him go and
do likewise." "All great men have been early risers," says my newspaper.

Of late, indeed, a better knowledge of the laws of health, or perhaps only a keener sense of
its value and its instability, begins to supersede these rash inculcations; and paragraphs
due to some discreet Dr. Hall make the rounds of the press, in which we are reminded that early
rising, in order to prove a benefit, rather than a source of mischief, must be duly matched
with early going to bed. The one, we are told, will by no means answer without the other. As
yet, however, this is urged upon hygienic grounds alone; it is a mere concession to the body,
a bald necessity that we hampered mortals lie under; which necessity we are quite at liberty
to regret and accuse, though we cannot with safety resist it. Sleep is still admitted to be
a waste of time, though one with which Nature alone is chargeable. And I own, not without reluctance,
that the great authority of Plato can be pleaded for this low view of its functions. In the
"Laws" he enjoins a due measure thereof, but for the sake of health alone, and adds, that the
sleeper is, for the time, of no more value than the dead. Clearly, mankind would sustain some
loss of good sense, were all the dullards and fat-wits taken away; and Sancho Panza, with his
hearty, "Blessings on the man that invented sleep!" here ekes out the scant wisdom of sages.
The talking world, however, of our day takes part with the Athenian against the Manchegan philosopher,
and, while admitting the present necessity of sleep, does not rejoice in its original invention.
If, accordingly, in a computation of the length of man's life, the hours passed in slumber
are carefully deducted, and considered as forming no part of available time, not even the medical
men dispute the justice of such procedure. They have but this to say:--"The stream of life
is not strong enough to keep the mill of action always going; we must therefore periodically
shut down the gate and allow the waters to accumulate; and he ever loses more than he gains
who attempts any avoidance of this natural necessity."

As medical men, they are not required, perhaps, to say more; and we will be grateful to them
for faithfully urging this,--especially when we consider, that, under the sage arrangements
now existing, all that the physician does for the general promotion of health is done in defiance
of his own interests. We, however, have further questions to ask. Why is not the life-stream
more affluent? Sleep is needful,--but wherefore? The physician vindicates the sleeper; but
the philosopher must vindicate Nature.

It is surely one step toward an elucidation of this matter to observe that the necessity here
accused is not one arbitrarily laid upon us by Nature, but one existing in Nature herself,
and appertaining to the very conception of existence. The elucidation, however, need not pause
at this point. The assumption that sleep is a piece of waste, as being a mere restorative for
the body, and not a service or furtherance to the mind,--this must be called in question and
examined closely; for it is precisely in this assumption, as I deem, that the popular judgment
goes astray. Is sleep any such arrest and detention of the mind? That it is a shutting of those
outward gates by which impressions flow in upon the soul is sufficiently obvious; but who can
assure us that it is equally a closing of those inward and skyward gates through which come
the reinforcements of faculty, the strength that masters and uses impression? I persuade myself,
on the contrary, that it is what Homer called it, divine,--able, indeed, to bring the blessing
of a god; and that hours lawfully passed under the pressure of its heavenly palms are fruitful,
not merely negatively, but positively, not only as recruiting exhausted powers, and enabling
us to be awake again, but by direct contribution to the resources of the soul and the uses
of life; that, in fine, one awakes farther on in life, as well as farther on in time, than
he was at falling asleep. This deeper function of the night, what is it?

Sleep is, first of all, a filter, or sieve. It strains off the impressions that engross, but
not enrich us,--that superfluous material of experience which, either from glutting excess,
or from sheer insignificance, cannot be spiritualized, made human, transmuted into experience
itself. Every man in our day, according to the measure of his sensibility, and with some respect
also to his position, is mobbed by impressions, and must fight as for his life, if he escape
being taken utterly captive by them. It is our perpetual peril that our lives shall become
so sentient as no longer to be reflective or artistic,--so beset and infested by the immediate
as to lose all amplitude, all perspective, and to become mere puppets of the present, mere
Chinese pictures, a huddle of foreground without horizon, or heaven, or even earthly depth
and reach. It is easy to illustrate this miserable possibility. A man, for example, in the
act of submitting to the extraction of a tooth, is, while the process lasts, one of the poorest
poor creatures with whose existence the world might be taunted. His existence is but skin-deep,
and contracted to a mere point at that: no vision and faculty divine, no thoughts that wander
through eternity, now: a tooth, a jaw, and the iron of the dentist,--these constitute, for
the time being, his universe. Only when this monopolizing, enslaving, sensualizing impression
has gone by, may what had been a point of pained and quivering animality expand once more to
the dimensions of a human soul. Kant, it is said, could withdraw his attention from the pain
of gout by pure mental engagement, but found the effort dangerous to his brain, and accordingly
was fain to submit, and be no more than a toe-joint, since evil fate would have it so. These
extreme cases exemplify a process of impoverishment from which we all daily suffer. The external,
the immediate, the idiots of the moment, telling tales that signify nothing, yet that so overcry
the suggestion of our deeper life as by the sad and weary to be mistaken for the discourse
of life itself,--these obtrude themselves upon us, and multiply and brag and brawl about us,
until we have neither room for better guests, nor spirits for their entertainment. We are like
schoolboys with eyes out at the windows, drawn by some rattle of drum and squeak of fife, who
would study, were they but deaf. Reproach sleep as a waste, forsooth! It is this tyrannical
attraction to the surface, that indeed robs us of time, and defrauds us of the uses of life.
We cannot hear the gods for the buzzing of flies. We are driven to an idle industry,--the idlest
of all things.

