

"I believe I'll sit there a moment," he said.

"Why--aren't you well?" his son exclaimed.

"Oh, perfectly.  But I should like you, please, to go up without me."

Dallas paused before him, visibly bewildered.  "But, I say, Dad: do you mean you won't come
up at all?"

"I don't know," said Archer slowly.

"If you don't she won't understand."

"Go, my boy; perhaps I shall follow you."

Dallas gave him a long look through the twilight.

"But what on earth shall I say?"

"My dear fellow, don't you always know what to say?" his father rejoined with a smile.

"Very well.  I shall say you're old-fashioned, and prefer walking up the five flights because
you don't like lifts."

His father smiled again.  "Say I'm old-fashioned: that's enough."

Dallas looked at him again, and then, with an incredulous gesture, passed out of sight under
the vaulted doorway.

Archer sat down on the bench and continued to gaze at the awninged balcony.  He calculated
the time it would take his son to be carried up in the lift to the fifth floor, to ring the
bell, and be admitted to the hall, and then ushered into the drawing-room.  He pictured Dallas
entering that room with his quick assured step and his delightful smile, and wondered if the
people were right who said that his boy "took after him."

Then he tried to see the persons already in the room--for probably at that sociable hour there
would be more than one--and among them a dark lady, pale and dark, who would look up quickly,
half rise, and hold out a long thin hand with three rings on it....  He thought she would be
sitting in a sofa-corner near the fire, with azaleas banked behind her on a table.

"It's more real to me here than if I went up," he suddenly heard himself say; and the fear
lest that last shadow of reality should lose its edge kept him rooted to his seat as the minutes
succeeded each other.

He sat for a long time on the bench in the thickening dusk, his eyes never turning from the
balcony.  At length a light shone through the windows, and a moment later a man-servant came
out on the balcony, drew up the awnings, and closed the shutters.

At that, as if it had been the signal he waited for, Newland Archer got up slowly and walked
back alone to his hotel.

A Note on the Text

The Age of Innocence first appeared in four large installments in The Pictorial Review, from
July to October 1920.  It was published that same year in book form by D. Appleton and Company
in New York and in London.  Wharton made extensive stylistic, punctuation, and spelling changes
and revisions between the serial and book publication, and more than thirty subsequent changes
were made after the second impression of the book edition had been run off.  This authoritative
text is reprinted from the Library of America edition of Novels by Edith Wharton, and is based
on the sixth impression of the first edition, which incorporates the last set of extensive
revisions that are obviously authorial.