While these scenes were passing in the metropolis the borders were furiously agitated by civil
discord. The families of Cessford and Fairnihirst disputed their right to the wardenry of the
middle marches, and to the provostry of Jedburgh; and William Kerr of Ancram, a follower of
the latter, was murdered by the young chief of Cessford, at the instigation of his mother.--Spottiswoode,
p. 383. But this was trifling, compared to the civil war, waged on the western frontier, between
the Johnstones and Maxwells, of which there is a minute account in the introduction to the
ballad, entitled, "Maxwell's Goodnight." Prefixed to that termed "Kinmont Willie" the reader
will find an account of the last warden raids performed upon the border.

My sketch of border history now draws to a close. The accession of James to the English crown
converted the extremity into the centre of his kingdom.

The east marches of Scotland were, at this momentous period, in a state of comparative civilization.
The rich soil of Berwickshire soon invited the inhabitants to the arts of agriculture.--Even
in the days of Lesley, the nobles and barons of the Merse differed in manners from the other
borderers, administered justice with regularity, and abstained from plunder and depredation.--De
moribus Scotorum, p. 7. But, on the middle and western marches, the inhabitants were unrestrained
moss-troopers and cattle drivers, knowing no measure of law, says Camden, but the length of
their swords. The sterility of the mountainous country, which they inhabited, offered little
encouragement to industry; and, for the long series of centuries, which we have hastily reviewed,
the hands of rapine were never there folded in inactivity, nor the sword of violence returned
to the scabbard. Various proclamations were in vain issued for interdicting the use of horses
and arms upon the west border of England and Scotland[31].

[Footnote 31: "Proclamation shall be made, that all inhabiting within Tynedale and Riddesdale,
in Northumberland, Bewcastledale, Willgavey, the north part of Gilsland, Esk, and Leven, in
Cumberland; east and west Tividale, Liddesdale, Eskdale, Ewsdale, and Annesdale, in Scotland
(saving noblemen Footnote: and gentlemen unsuspected of felony and theft, and not being of
broken clans, and their household servants, dwelling within those several places, before recited),
shall put away all armour and weapons, as well offensive as defensive, as jacks, spears, lances,
swords, daggers, steel-caps, hack-buts, pistols, plate sleeves, and such like; and shall not
keep any horse, gelding, or mare, above the value of fifty shillings sterling, or thirty pounds
Scots, upon the like paid of imprisonment."--Proceedings of the Border Commissioners, 1505.--Introduction
to History of Cumberland, p. 127.]

The evil was found to require the radical cure of extirpation. Buccleuch collected under his
banners the most desperate of the border warriors, of whom he formed a legion, for the service
of the states of Holland; who had as much reason to rejoice on their arrival upon the continent,
as Britain to congratulate herself upon their departure. It may be presumed, that few of this
corps ever returned to their native country. The clan of Graeme, a hardy and ferocious set
of freebooters inhabiting chiefly the Debateable Land, by a very summary exertion of authority,
was transported to Ireland, and their return prohibited under pain of death. Against other
offenders, measures, equally arbitrary, were without hesitation pursued. Numbers of border
riders were executed, without even the formality of a trial; and it is even said, that, in
mockery of justice, assizes were held upon them after they had suffered. For these acts of
tyranny, see Johnston, p. 374, 414, 39, 93. The memory of Dunbar's legal proceedings at Jedburgh,
are preserved in the proverbial phrase, Jeddart Justice, which signifies, trial after execution.
By this rigour though sternly and unconscientiously exercised the border marauders were, in
the course of years, either reclaimed or exterminated; though nearly a century elapsed ere
their manners were altogether assimilated to those of their countrymen[32].

[Footnote 32: See the acts 18 Cha. II. 6.3. and 80 Cha. II. ch. 2. against the border moss-troopers;
to which we may add the following curious extracts from Mercurius Politicus, a newspaper, published
during the usurpation.

"Thursday, November 11, 1662.

"Edinburgh.--The Scotts and moss-troopers have again revived their old custom, of robbing and
murdering the English, whether soldiers or other, upon all opportunities, within these three
weeks. We have had notice of several robberies and murders, committed by them. Among the rest,
a lieutenant, and one other of Col. Overton's regiment, returning from England, were robbed
not far from Dunbarr. A lieutenant, lately master of the customs at Kirkcudbright, was killed
about twenty miles from this place; and four foot soldiers of Colonel Overton's were killed,
going to their quarters, by some mossers, who, after they had given them quarter, tied their
hands behind them, and then threw them down a steep hill, or rock, as it was related by a Scotchman,
who was with them, but escaped."

Ibidem.--"October 13, 1663.--The Parliament, October 21, past an act, declaring, any person
that shall discover any felon, or felons (commonly called, or known, by the name of moss-troopers),
residing upon the borders of England and Scotland, shall have a reward of ten pound upon their
conviction."]

In these hasty sketches of border history, I have endeavoured to select, such incidents, as
may introduce to the reader the character of the marchmen, more briefly and better than a formal
essay upon their manners. If I have been successful in the attempt, he is already acquainted
with the mixture of courage and rapacity by which they were distinguished; and has reviewed
some of the scenes in which they acted a principal part. It is, therefore only necessary to
notice, more minutely, some of their peculiar customs and modes of life.

Their morality was of a singular kind. The ranpine, by which they subsisted, they accounted
lawful and honourable. Ever liable to lose their whole substance, by an incursion of the English,
on a sudden breach of truce, they cared little to waste their time in cultivating crops, to
be reaped by their foes. Their cattle was, therefore, their chief property; and these were
nightly exposed to the southern borderers, as rapacious and active as themselves. Hence, robbery
assumed the appearance of fair reprisal. The fatal privilege of pursuing the marauders into
their own country, for recovery of stolen goods, led to continual skirmishes The warden also,
himself frequently the chieftain of a border horde, when redress was not instantly granted
by the opposite officer, for depredations sustained by his district, was entitled to retaliate
upon England by a warden raid. In such cases, the moss-troopers, who crowded to his standard,
found themselves pursuing their craft under legal authority, and became the favourites and
followers of the military magistrate, whose duty it was to have checked and suppressed them.
See the curious history of Geordie Bourne, App. No. II. Equally unable and unwilling to make
nice distinctions, they were not to be convinced, that what was to-day fair booty, was to-morrow
a subject of theft. National animosity usually gave an additional stimulus to their rapacity;
although it must be owned, that their depredations extended also to the more cultivated parts
of their own country[33].

[Footnote 33: The armorial bearings, adopted by many of the border tribes, shew how little
they were ashamed of their trade of rapine. Like Falstaff, they were "Gentlemen of the night,
minions of the moon," under whose countenance they committed their depredations.--Hence, the
emblematic moons and stars, so frequently charged in the arms of border families. Their mottoes,
also, bear allusion to their profession.--"Reparabit cornua Phaebe," i.e. "We'll have moon-light
again," is that of the family of Harden. "Ye shall want, ere I want," that of Cranstoun, &c.]

Satchells, who lived when the old border ideas of meum and tuum were still in some force, endeavours
to draw a very nice distinction betwixt a freebooter and a thief; and thus sings he of the
Armstrongs:

  On that border was the Armstrongs, able men;
  Somewhat unruly, and very ill to tame.
  I would have none think that I call them thieves,
  For, if I did, it would be arrant lies.

  Near a border frontier, in the time of war,
  There's ne'er a man but he's a freebooter.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Because to all men it may appear,
  The freebooter he is a volunteer;
  In the muster rolls he has no desire to stay;
  He lives by purchase, he gets no pay.

         *       *       *       *       *

  It's most clear a freebooter doth live in hazard's train;
  A freebooter's a cavalier that ventures life for gain:
  But, since King James the Sixth to England went,
  Ther has been no cause of grief;
  And he that hath transgress'd since then,
  Is no Freebooter, but a Thief.

  History of the name of Scott.

The inhabitants of the inland counties did not understand these subtle distinctions. Sir David
Lindsay, in the curious drama, published by Mr Pinkerton, introduces, as one of his dramatis
personae, Common Thift, a borderer, who is supposed to come to Fife to steal the Earl of Rothes'
best hackney, and Lord Lindsay's brown jennet. Oppression also (another personage there introduced),
seems to be connected with the borders; for, finding himself in danger, he exclaims,--

  War God that I were sound and haill,
  Now liftit into Liddesdail;
  The Mers sowld fynd me beiff and caill,
  What rack of breid?

  War I thair lyftit with my lyfe,
  The devill sowld styk me with a knyffe,
  An' ever I cum agane in Fyfe,
  Till I were deid.--

Pinkerton's Scotish Poems, Vol. II p. 180.

Again, when Common Thift is brought to condign punishment, he remembers his border friends
in his dying speech:

  The widdefow wardanis tuik my geir,
  And left me nowthir horse nor meir,
  Nor erdly gud that me belangit;
  Now, walloway! I mon be hangit.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Adew! my bruthir Annan thieves,
  That holpit me in my mischevis:
  Adew! Grossars, Niksonis, and Bells,
  Oft have we fairne owthreuch the fells:
  Adew! Robsons, Howis, and Pylis,
  That in our craft hes mony wilis:
  Littlis, Trumbells, and Armestranges;
  Adew! all theeves, that me belangis;
  Baileowes, Erewynis, and Elwandis,
  Speedy of flicht, and slicht of handis:
  The Scotts of Eisdale, and the Gramis,
  I half na time to tell your namis.

Ib. p. 156.

  When Common Thift is executed (which is performed
  upon the stage), Falset (Falsehood), who is
  also brought forth for punishment, pronounces
  over him the following eulogy:

  Waes me for thee, gude Common Thift!
  Was never man made more honest chift,
  His living for to win:
  Thair wes not, in all Liddesdail,
  That ky mair craftelly could steil,
  Whar thou hingis on that pin!

Ib. p. 194.

Sir Richard Maitland, incensed at the boldness and impunity of the thieves of Liddesdale in
his time, has attacked them with keen iambicks. His satire, which, I suppose, had very little
effect at the time, forms No. III, of the appendix to this introduction.

The borderers had, in fact, little reason to regard the inland Scots as their fellow subjects,
or to respect the power of the crown. They were frequently resigned, by express compact, to
the bloody retaliation of the English, without experiencing any assistance from their prince,
and his more immediate subjects. If they beheld him, it was more frequently in the character
of an avenging judge, than of a protecting sovereign. They were, in truth, during the time
of peace, a kind of outcasts, against whom the united powers of England and Scotland were often
employed. Hence, the men of the borders had little attachment to the monarchs, whom they termed,
in derision, the kings of Fife and Lothian; provinces which they were not legally entitled
to inhabit[34], and which, therefore, they pillaged with as little remorse as if they had belonged
to a foreign country. This strange, precarious, and adventurous mode of life, led by the borderers,
was not without its pleasures, and seems, in all probability, hardly so disagreeable to us,
as the monotony of regulated society must have been to those, who had been long accustomed
to a state of rapine. The interesting nature of their exploits may be conceived from the account
of Camden.

[Footnote 34: By act 1587, c. 96, borderers are expelled from the inland counties, unless they
can find security for their quiet deportment.]

"What manner of cattle stealers they are, that inhabit these valleys in the marches of both
kingdoms, John Lesley, a Scotchman himself, and bishop of Ross, will inform you. They sally
out of their own borders, in the night, in troops, through unfrequented bye-ways, and many
intricate windings. All the day-time, they refresh themselves and their horses in lurking holes
they had pitched upon before, till they arrive in the dark at those places they have a design
upon. As soon as they have seized upon the booty, they, in like manner, return home in the
night, through blind ways, and fetching many a compass. The more skilful any captain is to
pass through those wild deserts, crooked turnings, and deep precipices, in the thickest mists
and darkness, his reputation is the greater, and he is looked upon as a man of an excellent
head.--And they are so very cunning, that they seldom have their booty taken from them, unless
sometimes, when, by the help of blood-hounds following them exactly upon the tract, they may
chance to fall into the hands of their adversaries. When being taken, they have so much persuasive
eloquence, and so many smooth insinuating words at command, that if they do not move their
judges, nay, and even their adversaries (notwithstanding the severity of their natures), to
have mercy, yet they incite them to admiration and compassion."--Camden's Britannia. The reader
is requested to compare this curious account, given by Lesley, with the ballad, called Hobble
Noble[35].

[Footnote 35: The following tradition is also illustrative of Lesley's account. Veitch of Dawyk,
a man of great strength and bravery who flourished in the 16th century, was upon bad terms
with a neighbouring proprietor, Tweedie of Drummelziar. By some accident, a flock of Dawyk's
sheep had strayed over into Drummelziar's grounds, at the time when Dickie of the Den, a Liddesdale
outlaw, was making his rounds in Tweeddale. Seeing this flock of sheep; he drove them off without
ceremony. Next morning, Veitch, perceiving his loss, summoned his servants and retainers, laid
a blood-hound upon the traces of the robber, by whom they were guided for many miles, till,
on the banks of Liddel, he staid upon a very large hay-stack. The pursuers were a good deal
surprised at the obstinate pause of the blood-hound, till Dawyk pulled down some of the hay,
and discovered a large excavation, containing the robbers and their spoil. He instantly flew
upon Dickie, and was about to poniard him, when the marauder, with the address noticed by Lesley,
protested that he would never have touched a cloot (hoof) of them, had he not taken them for
Drummelziar's property. This dexterous appeal to Veitch's passions saved the life of the freebooter.]

The inroads of the marchers, when stimulated only by the desire of plunder, were never marked
with cruelty, and seldom even with bloodshed, unless in the case of opposition. They held,
that property was common to all who stood in want of it; but they abhorred and avoided the
crime of unnecessary homicide.--Lesley, p. 63. This was, perhaps, partly owing to the habits
of intimacy betwixt the borderers of both kingdoms, notwithstanding their mutual hostility,
and reciprocal depredations. A natural intercourse took place between the English and Scottish
marchers, at border meetings, and during the short intervals of peace. They met frequently
at parties of the chace and foot-ball; and it required many and strict regulations, on both
sides, to prevent them from forming intermarriages, and from cultivating too close a degree
of intimacy.--Scottish Acts, 1587, c. 105; Wharton's Regulations, 6th Edward VI. The custom,
also, of paying black-mail, or protection-rent, introduced a connection betwixt the countries;
for, a Scottish borderer, taking black-mail from an English inhabitant, was not only himself
bound to abstain from injuring such person, but also to maintain his quarrel, and recover his
property, if carried off by others. Hence, an union arose betwixt the parties, founded upon
mutual interest, which counteracted, in many instances, the effects of national prejudice.
The similarity of their manners may be inferred from that of their language. In an old mystery,
imprinted at London, 1654, a mendicant borderer is introduced, soliciting alms of a citizen
and his wife. To a question of the latter he replies, "Savying your honour, good maistress,
I was born in Redesdale, in Northomberlande, and come of a wight riding sirname, call'd the
Robsons: gude honeste men, and true, savyng a little shiftynge for theyr livyng; God help them,
silly pure men." The wife answers, "What doest thou here, in this countrie? me thinke thou
art a Scot by thy tongue." Beggar--"Trowe me never mair then, good deam; I had rather be hanged
in a withie of a cow-taile, for thei are ever fare and fase."--Appendix to Johnstone's Sad
Shepherd, 1783. p. 188. From the wife's observation, as well as from the dialect of the beggar,
we may infer, that there was little difference between the Northumbrian and the border Scottish;
a circumstance interesting in itself, and decisive of the occasional friendly intercourse among
the marchmen. From all those combining circumstances arose the lenity of the borderers in their
incursions and the equivocal moderation which they sometimes observed towards each other, in
open war[36].

[Footnote 36: This practice of the marchmen was observed and reprobated by Patten. "Anoother
maner have they (the English borderers) amoong them, of wearyng handkerchers roll'd about their
armes, and letters brouder'd (embroidered) upon their cappes: they said themselves, the use
thearof was that ech of them might knowe his fellowe, and thearbye the sooner assemble, or
in nede to ayd one another, and such lyke respectes; howbeit, thear wear of the army amoong
us (sum suspicious men perchaunce), that thought thei used them for collusion, and rather bycaus
thei might be knowen to the enemie, as the enemies are knowen to them (for thei have their
markes too), and so in conflict either ech to spare oother, or gently eche to take oother.
Indede men have been mooved the rather to thinke so, bycaus sum of their crosses (the English
red cross) were so narrowe, and so singly set on, that a puff of wynde might blowed them from
their breastes, and that thei wear found right often talking with the Skottish prikkers within
less than their gad's (spears) length asunder; and when thei perceived thei had been espied,
thei have begun one to run at anoother, but so apparently perlassent (in parley), as the lookers
on resembled their chasyng lyke the running at base in an uplondish toun, whear the match is
made for a quart of good ale, or like the play in Robin Cookes scole (a fencing school), whear,
bycaus the punies may lerne, thei strike fewe strokes but by assent and appointment. I hard
sum men say, it did mooch augment their suspicion that wey, bycaus at the battail they sawe
these prikkers so badly demean them, more intending the taking of prisoners, than the surety
of victorye; for while oother men fought, thei fell to their prey; that as thear wear but fewe
of them but brought home his prisoner, so wear thear many that had six or seven."--Patten's
Account of Somerset's Expedition, apud Dalyell's Fragments, p. 76.

It is singular that, about this very period, the same circumstances are severely animadverted
upon by the strenuous Scottishman, who wrote the Complaynt of Scotland, as well as by the English
author above quoted. "There is nothing that is occasione of your adhering to the opinion of
Ingland contrair your natife cuntré, bot the grit familiarite that Inglis men and Scottes hes
had on baitht the boirdours, ilk are witht utheris, in merchandeis, in selling and buying hors
and nolt, and scheip, outfang and infang, ilk are amang utheris, the whilk familiarite is express
contrar the lauis and consuetudis bayth of Ingland and Scotland. In auld tymis it was determit
in the artiklis of the pace, be the twa wardanis of the boirdours of Ingland and Scotland,
that there suld be na familiarite betwix Scottis men and Inglis men, nor marriage to be contrakit
betwix them, nor conventions on holydais at gammis and plays, nor merchandres to be maid amang
them, nor Scottis men till enter on Inglis grond, witht out the king of Ingland's save conduct,
nor Inglis men til enter on Scottis grond witht out the King of Scotland's save conduct, howbeit
that ther war sure pace betwix the twa realmes. Bot thir sevyn yeir bygane, thai statutis and
artiklis of the pace are adnullit, for ther hes been as grit familiarite, and conventions,
and makyng of merchandreis, on the boirdours, this lang tyme betwix Inglis men and Scottis
men, baytht in pace and weir, as Scottismen usis amang theme selfis witht in the realme of
Scotland: and sic familiarite has bene the cause that the kyng of Ingland gat intelligence
witht divers gentlemen of Scotland."

Complaynt of Scotland, Edin. 1801, p. 164.]

This humanity and moderation was, on certain occasions, entirely laid aside by the borderers.
In the case of deadly feud, either against an Englishman, or against any neighbouring tribe,
the whole force of the offended clan was bent to avenge the death of any of their number. Their
vengeance not only vented itself upon the homicide and his family, but upon all his kindred,
on his whole tribe; on every one, in fine, whose death or ruin could affect him with regret.--Lesley,
p. 63; Border Laws, passim; Scottish Acts, 1594, c. 231. The reader will find, in the following
collection, many allusions to this infernal custom, which always overcame the marcher's general
reluctance to shed human, blood, and rendered him remorselessly savage.

For fidelity to their word, Lesley ascribes high praise to the inhabitants of the Scottish
frontier. When an instance happened to the contrary, the injured person, at the first border
meeting, rode through the field, displaying a glove (the pledge of faith) upon the point of
his lance, and proclaiming the perfidy of the person, who had broken his word. So great was
the indignation of the assembly against the perjured criminal, that he was often slain by his
own clan, to wipe out the disgrace he had brought on them. In the same spirit of confidence,
it was not unusual to behold the victors, after an engagement, dismiss their prisoners upon
parole, who never failed either to transmit the stipulated ransom, or to surrender themselves
to bondage, if unable to do so. But the virtues of a barbarous people, being founded not upon
moral principle, but upon the dreams of superstition, or the capricious dictates of antient
custom, can seldom be uniformly relied on. We must not, therefore, be surprised to find these
very men, so true to their word in general, using, upon other occasions, various resources
of cunning and chicane, against which the border laws were in vain directed.

The immediate rulers of the borders were the chiefs of the different clans, who exercised over
their respective septs a dominion, partly patriarchal, and partly feudal. The latter bond of
adherence was, however, the more slender; for, in the acts regulating the borders, we find
repeated mention of "Clannes having captaines and chieftaines, whom on they depend, oft-times
against the willes of their landeslordes."--Stat. 1587, c. 95, and the Roll thereto annexed.
Of course, these laws looked less to the feudal superior, than to the chieftain of the name,
for the restraint of the disorderly tribes; and it is repeatedly enacted, that the head of
the clan should be first called upon to deliver those of his sept, who should commit any trespass,
and that, on his failure to do so, he should be liable to the injured party in full redress.
Ibidem, and Stat. 1594, c. 231. By the same statutes, the chieftains and landlords, presiding
over border clans, were obliged to find caution, and to grant hostages, that they would subject
themselves to the due course of law. Such clans, as had no chieftain of sufficient note to
enter bail for their quiet conduct, became broken men, outlawed to both nations.

From these enactments, the power of the border chieftains may be conceived; for it had been
hard and useless to have punished them for the trespasses of their tribes, unless they possessed
over them unlimited authority. The abode of these petty princes by no means corresponded to
the extent of their power. We do not find, on the Scottish borders, the splendid and extensive
baronial castles, which graced and defended the opposite frontier. The gothic grandeur of Alnwick,
of Raby, and of Naworth, marks the wealthier and more secure state of the English nobles. The
Scottish chieftain, however extensive his domains, derived no advantage, save from such parts
as he could himself cultivate or occupy. Payment of rent was hardly known on the borders, till
after the union[37]. All that the landlord could gain, from those residing upon his estate,
was their personal service in battle, their assistance in labouring the land retained in his
natural possession, some petty quit-rents, of a nature resembling the feudal casualties, and
perhaps a share in the spoil which they acquired by rapine[38]. This, with his herds of cattle
and of sheep, and with the black mail, which he exacted from his neighbours, constituted the
revenue of the chieftain; and, from funds so precarious, he could rarely spare sums to expend
in strengthening or decorating his habitation. Another reason is found in the Scottish mode
of warfare. It was early discovered, that the English surpassed their neighbours in the arts
of assaulting or defending fortified places. The policy of the Scottish, therefore, deterred
them from erecting upon the borders buildings of such extent and strength, as, being once taken
by the foe, would have been capable of receiving a permanent garrison[39]. For these combined
reasons, the residence of the chieftain was commonly a large square battlemented[40] tower,
called a keep, or peel; placed on a precipice, or on the banks of a torrent, and, if the ground
would permit, surrounded by a moat. In short, the situation of a border house, surrounded by
woods, and rendered almost inaccessible by torrents, by rocks, or by morasses, sufficiently
indicated the pursuits and apprehensions of its inhabitant.--"Locus horroris et vastae solitudinis,
aptus ad praedam, habilis ad rapinam, habitatoribus suis lapis erat offensiones et petra scandali,
utpote qui stipendiis suis minime contenti totum de alieno parum de suo possidebant--totius
provinciae spolium." No wonder, therefore, that James V., on approaching the castle of Lochwood,
the antient seat of the Johnstones, is said to have exclaimed, "that he who built it must have
been a knave in his heart." An outer wall, with some slight fortifications, served as a protection
for the cattle at night. The walls of these fortresses were of an immense thickness, and they
could easily be defended against any small force; more especially, as, the rooms being vaulted,
each story formed a separate lodgement, capable of being held out for a considerable time.
On such occasions, the usual mode, adopted by the assailants, was to expel the defenders, by
setting fire to wet straw in the lower apartments. But the border chieftains seldom chose to
abide in person a siege of this nature; and I have not observed a single instance of a distinguished
baron made prisoner in his own house[41].--Patten's Expedition, p. 35. The common people resided
in paltry huts, about the safety of which they were little anxious, as they contained nothing
of value. On the approach of a superior force, they unthatched them, to prevent their being
burned, and then abandoned them to the foe.--Stowe's Chronicle, p. 665. Their only treasures
were, a fleet and active horse, with the ornaments which their rapine had procured for the
females of their family, of whose gay appearance the borderers were vain.

[Footnote 37: Stowe, in detailing the happy consequences of the union of the crowns, observes,
"that the northerne borders became as safe, and peaceable, as any part of the entire kingdome,
so as in the fourth yeare of the king's raigne, as well gentlemen as others, inhabiting the
places aforesayde, finding the auncient wast ground to be very good and fruitefull, began to
contende in lawe about their bounds, challenging then, that for their hereditarie right, which
formerly they disavowed, only to avoyde charge of common defence."]

[Footnote 38: "As for the humours of the people (i.e. of Tiviotdale), they were both strong
and warlike, as being inured to war, and daily incursions, and the most part of the heritors
of the country gave out all their lands to their tenants, for military attendance upon rentals,
and reserved only some few manses for their own sustenance, which were laboured by their tenants,
besides their service. They paid an entry, a herauld, and a small rental-duty; for there were
no rents raised here that were considerable, till King James went into England; yea, all along
the border."--Account of Roxburghshire, by Sir William Scott of Harden, and Kerr of Sunlaws,
apud Macfarlane's MSS.]

[Footnote 39: The royal castles of Roxburgh, Hermitage, Lochmaben, &c. form a class of exceptions
to this rule, being extensive and well fortified. Perhaps we ought also to except the baronial
castle of Home. Yet, in 1455, the following petty garrisons were thought sufficient for the
protection of the border; two hundred spearmen, and as many archers, upon the east and middle
marches; and one hundred spears, with a like number of bowmen, upon the western marches. But
then the same statute provides, "They that are neare hand the bordoure, are ordained to have
gud househaldes, and abuilzed men as effeiris: and to be reddie at their principal place, and
to pass, with the wardanes, quhen and quhair they sail be charged."--Acts of James II., cap.
55, Of garisonnes to be laid upon the borderes.--Hence Buchanan has justly described, as an
attribute of the Scottish nation,

  "Nec fossis, nee muris, patriam sed Marte tueri."

[Footnote 40: I have observed a difference in architecture betwixt the English and Scottish
towers. The latter usually have upon the top a projecting battlement, with interstices, anciently
called machicoules, betwixt the parapet and the wall, through which stones or darts might be
hurled upon the assailants. This kind of fortification is less common on the south border.]

[Footnote 41: I ought to except the famous Dand Ker, who was made prisoner in his castle of
Fairnihirst, after defending it bravely against Lord Dacres, 24th September, 1523.]

Some rude monuments occur upon the borders, the memorial of ancient valour. Such is the cross
at Milholm, on the banks of the Liddel, said to have been erected in memory of the chief of
the Armstrongs, murdered treacherously by Lord Soulis, while feasting in Hermitage castle.
Such also, a rude stone, now broken, and very much defaced, placed upon a mount on the lands
of Haughhead, near the junction of the Kale and Teviot. The inscription records the defence
made by Hobbie Hall, a man of great strength and courage against an attempt by the powerful
family of Ker, to possess themselves of his small estate[42].

[Footnote 42: The rude strains of the inscription little correspond with the gallantry of a

  --village Hampden, who, with dauntless breast,
  The little tyrant of his fields withstood.

It is in these words:

  Here Hobbie Hall boldly maintained his right,
  'Gainst reif, plain force, armed wi' awles might.
  Full thirty pleughs, harnes'd in all their gear,
  Could not his valiant noble heart make fear:
  But wi' his sword, he cut the foremost's soam
  In two; and drove baith pleughs and pleughmen home.
  1620.

Soam means the iron links, which fasten a yoke of oxen to the plough.]

The same simplicity marked their dress and arms. Patten observes, that in battle the laird
could not be distinguished from the serf: all wearing the same coat armour, called a jack,
and the baron being only distinguished by his sleeves of mail, and his head-piece. The borderers,
in general, acted as light cavalry; riding horses of a small size, but astonishingly nimble,
and trained to move, by short bounds, through the morasses with which Scotland abounds. Their
offensive weapons were, a lance of uncommon length; a sword, either two-handed, or of the modern
light size; sometimes a species of battle-axe, called a Jedburgh-staff; and, latterly, dags,
or pistols. Although so much accustomed to act on horseback, that they held it even mean to
appear otherwise, the marchmen occasionally acted as infantry; nor were they inferior to the
rest of Scotland in forming that impenetrable phalanx of spears, whereof it is said, by an
English historian, that "sooner shall a bare finger pierce through the skin of an angry hedge-hog,
than any one encounter the brunt of their pikes." At the battle of Melrose, for example, Buccleuch's
army fought upon foot. But the habits of the borderers fitted them particularly to distinguish
themselves as light cavalry; and hence the name of prickers and hobylers, so frequently applied
to them. At the blaze of their beacon fires, they were wont to assemble ten thousand horsemen
in the course of a single day. Thus rapid in their warlike preparations, they were alike ready
for attack and defence. Each individual carried his own provisions, consisting of a small bag
of oatmeal, and trusted to plunder, or the chace, for ekeing out his precarious meal. Beaugé
remarks, that nothing surprised the Scottish cavalry so much as to see their French auxiliaries
encumbered with baggage-waggons, and attended by commissaries. Before joining battle, it seems
to have been the Scottish practice to set fire to the litter of their camp, while, under cover
of the smoke, the hobylers, or border cavalry, executed their manoeuvres.--There is a curious
account of the battle of Mitton, fought in the year 1319, in a valuable MS. Chronicle of England,
in the collection of the Marquis of Douglas, from which this stratagem seems to have decided
the engagement. "In meyn time, while the wer thus lastyd, the kynge went agane into Skotlonde,
that hitte was wonder for to wette, and bysechyd the towne of Barwick; but the Skottes went
over the water of Sold, that was iii myle from the hoste, and prively they stole awaye be nyghte,
and come into England, and robbed and destroyed all that they myght, and spared no manner thing
til that they come to Yorke. And, whan the Englischemen, that wer left att home, herd this
tiding, all tho that myght well travell, so well monkys and priestis, and freres, and chanouns,
and seculars, come and met with the Skottes at Mytone of Swale, the xii day of October. Allas,
for sorow for the Englischemen! housbondmen, that could nothing in wer, ther were quelled and
drenchyd in an arm of the see. And hyr chyftaines, Sir William Milton, ersch-biishop of Yorke,
and the abbot of Selby, with her stedes, fled and com into Yorke; and that was her owne folye
that they had that mischaunce; for the passyd the water of Swale, and the Skottes set on fiir
three stalkes of hey, and the smoke thereof was so huge, that the Englischemen might nott se
the Scottes; and whan the Englischemen were gon over the water, tho cam the Skottes, with hir
wyng, in maner of a sheld, and come toward the Englischemen in ordour. And the Englischemen
fled for unnethe they had any use of armes, for the kyng had hem al almost lost att the sege
of Barwick. And the Scotsmen hobylers went betwene the brigge and the Englischemen; and when
the gret hoste them met, the Englischemen fled between the hobylers and the gret hoste; and
the Englischemen were ther quelled, and he that myght wend over the water were saved, but many
were drowned. Alas! for there were slayn many men of religion, and seculars, and pristis, and
clerks, and with much sorwe the erschbischope scaped from the Skottes; and, therefore, the
Skottes called that battell the White Battell"

For smaller predatory expeditions, the borderers had signals, and places of rendezvous, peculiar
to each tribe. If the party set forward before all the members had joined, a mark, cut in the
turf, or on the bark of a tree, pointed out to the stragglers the direction which the main
body had pursued[43].

[Footnote 43: In the parish of Linton, in Roxburghshire, there is a circle of stones, surrounding
a smooth plot of turf, called the Tryst, or place of appointment, which tradition avers to
have been the rendezvous of the neighbouring warriors. The name of the leader was cut in the
turf, and the arrangement of the letters announced to his followers the course which he had
taken. See Statistical Account of the Parish of Linton.]

Their warlike convocations were, also, frequently disguised, under pretence of meetings for
the purpose of sport. The game of foot-ball, in particular which was anciently, and still continues
to be, a favourite border sport, was the means of collecting together large bodies of moss-troopers,
previous to any military exploit. When Sir Robert Carey was warden of the east marches, the
knowledge that there was a great match of foot-ball at Kelso, to be frequented by the principal
Scottish riders, was sufficient to excite his vigilance and his apprehension[44]. Previous
also to the murder of Sir John Carmichael (see Notes on the Raid of the Reidswire,) it appeared
at the trial of the perpetrators that they had assisted at a grand foot-ball meeting, where
the crime was concerted.

[Footnote 44: See Appendix.]

Upon the religion of the borderers there can very little be said. This probably arose from
a total indifference upon the subject; for, we no where find in their character the respect
for the church, which is a marked feature of that religion. In 1528, Lord Dacre complains heavily
to Cardinal Wolsey, that, having taken a notorious freebooter, called Dyk Irwen, the brother
and friends of the outlaw had, in retaliation, seized a man of some property, and a relation
of Lord Dacre, called Jeffrey Middleton, as he returned from a pilgrimage to St. Ninian's,
in Galloway; and that, notwithstanding the sanctity of his character, as a true pilgrim, and
the Scottish monarch's safe conduct, they continued to detain him in their fastnesses, until
he should redeem the said arrant thief, Dyk Irwen. The abbeys, which were planted upon the
border, neither seem to have been much respected by the English, nor by the Scottish barons.
They were repeatedly burned by the former, in the course of the border wars, and by the latter
they seem to have been regarded chiefly as the means of endowing a needy relation, or the subject
of occasional plunder. Thus, Andrew Home of Fastcastle, about 1488, attempted to procure a
perpetual feu of certain possessions belonging to the abbey of Coldinghame; and being baffled,
by the king bestowing that opulent benefice upon the royal chapel at Stirling, the Humes and
Hepburns started into rebellion; asserting, that the priory should be conferred upon some younger
son of their families, according to ancient custom. After the fatal battle of Flodden, one
of the Kerrs testified his contempt for clerical immunities and privileges, by expelling from
his house the abbot of Kelso. These bickerings betwixt the clergy and the barons were usually
excited by disputes about their temporal interest. It was common for the churchmen to grant
lands in feu to the neighbouring gentlemen, who, becoming their vassals, were bound to assist
and protect them[45]. But, as the possessions and revenues of the benefices became thus intermixed
with those of the laity, any attempts rigidly to enforce the claims of the church were usually
attended by the most scandalous disputes. A petty warfare was carried on for years, betwixt
James, abbot of Dryburgh, and the family of Halliburton of Mertoun, or Newmains, who held some
lands from that abbey. These possessions were, under various pretexts, seized and laid waste
by both parties; and some bloodshed took place in the contest, betwixt the lay vassals and
their spiritual superior. The matter was, at length, thought of sufficient importance to be
terminated by a reference to his majesty; whose decree arbitral, dated at Stirling, the 8th
of May, 1535, proceeds thus: "Whereas we, having been advised and knowing the said gentlemen,
the Halliburtons, to be leal and true honest men, long servants unto the saide abbeye, for
the saide landis, stout men at armes, and goode borderers against Ingland; and doe therefore
decree and ordaine, that they sail be re-possess'd, and bruik and enjoy the landis and steedings
they had of the said abbeye, paying the use and wonte: and that they sall be goode servants
to the said venerabil father, like as they and their predecessours were to the said venerabil
father, and his predecessours, and he a good master to them[46]." It is unnecessary to detain
the reader with other instances of the discord, which prevailed anciently upon the borders,
betwixt the spiritual shepherd and his untractable flock.

[Footnote 45: These vassals resembled, in some degree, the Vidames in France, and the Vogten,
or Vizedomen, of the German abbeys; but the system was never carried regularly into effect
in Britain, and this circumstance facilitated the dissolution of the religious houses.]

[Footnote 46: This decree was followed by a marriage betwixt the abbot's daughter, Elizabeth
Stewart, and Walter Halliburton, one of the family of Newmains. But even this alliance did
not secure peace between the venerable father and his vassals. The offspring of the marriage
was an only daughter, named Elizabeth Halliburton. As this young lady was her father's heir,
the Halliburtons resolved that she should marry one of her cousins, to keep her property in
the clan. But as this did not suit the views of the abbot, he carried off by force the intended
bride, and married her, at Stirling, to Alexander Erskine, a brother of the laird of Balgony,
a relation and follower of his own. From this marriage sprung the Erskines of Shielfield. This
exploit of the abbot revived the feud betwixt him and the Halliburtons, which only ended with
the dissolution of the abbey.--MS. History of Halliburton Family, penes editorem.]

The reformation was late of finding its way into the border wilds; for, while the religious
and civil dissentions were at the height in 1568, Drury writes to Cecil,--"Our trusty neighbours
of Teviotdale are holden occupied only to attend to the pleasure and calling of their own heads,
to make some diversion in this matter." The influence of the reformed preachers, among the
borders, seems also to have been but small; for, upon all occasions of dispute with the kirk,
James VI. was wont to call in their assistance. Calderwood, p. 129.

We learn from a curious passage in the life of Richard Cameron, a fanatical preacher during
the time of what is called "the persecution," that some of the borderers retained to a late
period their indifference about religious matters. After having been licensed at Haughhead,
in Teviotdale, he was, according to his biographer, sent first to preach in Annandale. "He
said, 'how can I go there? I know what sort of people they are.' 'But,' Mr. Welch said, 'go
your way, Ritchie, and set the fire of hell to their tails.' He went; and, the first day, he
preached upon that text, Home shall I put thee among the children, &c. In the application he
said, 'Put you among the children! the offspring of thieves and robbers! we have all heard
of Annandale thieves.' Some of them got a merciful cast that day, and told afterwards, that
it was the first field meeting they ever attended, and that they went out of mere curiosity,
to see a minister preach in a tent, and people sit on the ground." Life of Richard Cameron[47].

[Footnote 47: This man was chaplain in the family of Sir Walter Scott of Harden, who attended
the meetings of the indulged presbyterians; but Cameron, considering this conduct as a compromise
with the foul fiend Episcopacy, was dismissed from the family. He was slain in a skirmish at
Airdsmoss, bequeathing his name to the sect of fanatics, still called Cameronians.]

Cleland, an enthusiastic Cameronian, lieutenant-colonel of the regiment levied after the Revolution
from among that wild and fanatical sect, claims to the wandering preachers of his tribe the
merit of converting the borderers. He introduces a cavalier, haranguing the Highlanders, and
ironically thus guarding them against the fanatic divines:

  If their doctrine there get rooting,
  Then, farewell theift, the best of booting,
  And this ye see is very clear,
  Dayly experience makes it appear;
  For instance, lately on the borders,
  Where there was nought but theft and murders,
  Rapine, cheating, and resetting,
  Slight of hand, fortunes getting,
  Their designation, as ye ken,
  Was all along the Tacking Men.
  Now, rebels more prevails with words,
  Then drawgoons does with guns and swords,
  So that their bare preaching now
  Makes the rush-bush keep the cow;
  Better than Scots or English kings,
  Could do by kilting them with strings.
  Yea, those that were the greatest rogues,
  Follows them over hills and bogues,
  Crying for mercy and for preaching,
  For they'll now hear no others teaching."

Cleland's Poems, 1697, p. 30.

The poet of the whigs might exaggerate the success of their teachers; yet, it must be owned,
that their doctrine of insubordination, joined to their vagrant and lawless habits, was calculated
strongly to conciliate their border hearers.

But, though the church, in the border counties, attracted little veneration, no part of Scotland
teemed with superstitious fears and observances more than they did. "The Dalesmen[48]," says
Lesley, "never count their beads with such earnestness as when they set out upon a predatory
expedition." Penances, the composition betwixt guilt and conscience, were also frequent upon
the borders. Of this we have a record in many bequests to the church, and in some more lasting
monuments; such as the Tower of Repentance in Dumfries-shire, and, according to vulgar tradition,
the church of Linton[49], in Roxburghshire. In the appendix to this introduction. These were
superstitions, flowing immediately from the nature of the Catholic religion: but there was,
upon the border, no lack of others of a more general nature. Such was the universal belief
in spells, of which some traces may yet remain in the wild parts of the country. These were
common in the time of the learned Bishop Nicolson, who derives them from the time of the Pagan
Danes. "This conceit was the more heightened, by reflecting upon the natural superstition of
our borderers at this day, who were much better acquainted with, and do more firmly believe,
their old legendary stories, of fairies and witches, than the articles of their creed. And
to convince me, yet farther, that they are not utter strangers to the black art of their forefathers,
I met with a gentleman in the neighbourhood, who shewed me a book of spells, and magical receipts,
taken, two or three days before, in the pocket of one of our moss-troopers; wherein, among
many other conjuring feats, was prescribed, a certain remedy for an ague, by applying a few
barbarous characters to the body of the party distempered. These, methought, were very near
a-kin to Wormius's Ram Runer, which, he says, differed wholly in figure and shape from the
common runae. For, though he tells us, that these Ram Runer were so called, Eo quod molestias,
dolores, morbosque hisce infligere inimicis soliti sunt magi; yet his great friend, Arng. Jonas,
more to our purpose, says, that--His etiam usi sunt ad benefaciendum, juvandum, medicandum
tam animi quam corporis morbis; atque ad ipsos cacodaemones pellendos et fugandos. I shall
not trouble you with a draught of this spell, because I have not yet had an opportunity of
learning whether it may not be an ordinary one, and to be met with, among others of the same
nature, in Paracelsus, or Cornelius Agrippa."--Letter from Bishop Nicolson to Mr. Walker; vide
Camden's Britannia, Cumberland. Even in the editor's younger days, he can remember the currency
of certain spells, for curing sprains, burns, or dislocations, to which popular credulity ascribed
unfailing efficacy[50]. Charms, however, against spiritual enemies, were yet more common than
those intended to cure corporeal complaints. This is not surprising, as a fantastic remedy
well suited an imaginary disease.

[Footnote 48: This small church is founded upon a little hill of sand, in which no stone of
the size of an egg is said to have been found, although the neighbouring soil is sharp and
gravelly. Tradition accounts for this, by informing us, that the foundresses were two sisters,
upon whose account much blood had been spilt in that spot; and that the penance, imposed on
the fair causers of the slaughter, was an order from the pope to sift the sand of the hill,
upon which their church was to be erected. This story may, perhaps, have some foundation; for,
in the church-yard was discovered a single grave, containing no fewer than fifty skulls, most
of which bore the marks of having been cleft by violence.]

[Footnote 49: An epithet bestowed upon the borderers, from the names of their various districts;
as Tiviotdale, Liddesdale, Eskdale, Ewsdale, Annandale, &c. Hence, an old ballad distinguishes
the north as the country,

  "Where every river gives name to a dale,"

Ex-ale-tation of Ale.]

[Footnote 50: Among these may be reckoned the supposed influence of Irish earth, in curing
the poison of adders, or other venomous reptiles.--This virtue is extended by popular credulity
to the natives, and even to the animals, of Hibernia. A gentleman, bitten by some reptile,
so as to occasion a great swelling, seriously assured the editor, that he ascribed his cure
to putting the affected finger into the mouth of an Irish mare!]

There were, upon the borders, many consecrated wells, for resorting to which the people's credulity
is severely censured, by a worthy physician of the seventeenth century; who himself believed
in a shower of living herrings having fallen near Dumfries. "Many run superstitiously to other
wells, and there obtain, as they imagine, health and advantage; and there they offer bread
and cheese, or money, by throwing them into the well." In another part of the MS. occurs the
following passage. "In the bounds of the lands of Eccles, belonging to a lyneage of the name
of Maitland, there is a loch called the Dowloch, of old resorted to with much superstition,
as medicinal both for men and beasts, and that with such ceremonies, as are shrewdly suspected
to have been begun with witchcraft, and increased afterward by magical directions: For, burying
of a cloth, or somewhat that did relate to the bodies of men and women, and a shackle, or teather,
belonging to cow or horse; and these being cast into the loch, if they did float, it was taken
for a good omen of recovery, and a part of the water carried to the patient, though to remote
places, without saluting or speaking to any they met by the way; but, if they did sink, the
recovery of the party was hopeless. This custom was of late much curbed and restrained; but
since the discovery of many medicinal fountains near to the place, the vulgar, holding that
it may be as medicinal as these are, at this time begin to re-assume their former practice."--Account
of Presbytery of Penpont, in Macfarlane's MSS.

The idea, that the spirits of the deceased return to haunt the place, where on earth they have
suffered or have rejoiced, is, as Dr. Johnson has observed, common to the popular creed of
all nations The just and noble sentiment, implanted in our bosoms by the Deity, teaches us,
that we shall not slumber for ever, as the beasts that perish.--Human vanity, or credulity,
chequers, with its own inferior and base colours, the noble prospect, which is alike held out
to us by philosophy and by religion. We feel, according to the ardent expression of the poet,
that we shall not wholly die; but from hence we vainly and weakly argue, that the same scenes,
the same passions, shall delight and actuate the disembodied spirit, which affected it while
in its tenement of clay. Hence the popular belief, that the soul haunts the spot where the
murdered body is interred; that its appearances are directed to bring down vengeance on its
murderers; or that, having left its terrestrial form in a distant clime, it glides before its
former friends, a pale spectre, to warn them of its decease. Such tales, the foundation of
which is an argument from our present feelings to those of the spiritual world, form the broad
and universal basis of the popular superstition regarding departed spirits; against which reason
has striven in vain, and universal experience has offered a disregarded testimony. These legends
are peculiarly acceptable to barbarous tribes; and, on the borders, they were received with
most unbounded faith. It is true, that these supernatural adversaries were no longer opposed
by the sword and battle-axe, as among the unconverted Scandinavians. Prayers, spells, and exorcisms,
particularly in the Greek and Hebrew languages, were the weapons of the borderers, or rather
of their priests and cunning men, against their aërial enemy[51]. The belief in ghosts, which
has been well termed the last lingering phantom of superstition, still maintains its ground
upon the borders.

[Footnote 51: One of the most noted apparitions is supposed to haunt Spedlin's castle, near
Lochmaben, the ancient baronial residence of the Jardines of Applegirth. It is said, that,
in exercise of his territorial jurisdiction, one of the ancient lairds had imprisoned, in the
Massy More, or dungeon of the castle, a person named Porteous. Being called suddenly to Edinburgh,
the laird discovered, as he entered the West Port, that he had brought along with him the key
of the dungeon. Struck with the utmost horror, he sent back his servant to relieve the prisoner;
but it was too late. The wretched being was found lying upon the steps descending from the
door of the vault, starved to death. In the agonies of hunger, he had gnawed the flesh from
one of his arms. That his spectre should haunt the castle was a natural consequence of such
a tragedy. Indeed, its visits became so frequent, that a clergyman of eminence was employed
to exorcise it. After a contest of twenty-four hours, the man of art prevailed so far as to
confine the goblin to the Massy More of the castle, where its shrieks and cries are still heard.
A part, at least, of the spell, depends upon the preservation of the ancient black-lettered
bible, employed by the exorcist. It was some years ago thought necessary to have this bible
re-bound; but, as soon as it was removed from the castle, the spectre commenced his nocturnal
orgies, with ten-fold noise; and it is verily believed that he would have burst from his confinement,
had not the sacred volume been speedily replaced.

A Mass John Scott, minister of Peebles, is reported to have been the last renowned exorciser,
and to have lost his life in a contest with an obstinate spirit. This was owing to the conceited
rashness of a young clergyman, who commenced the ceremony of laying the ghost before the arrival
of Mass John. It is the nature, it seems, of spirits disembodied, as well as embodied, to increase
in strength and presumption, in proportion to the advantages which they may gain over the opponent.
The young clergyman losing courage, the horrors of the scene were increased to such a degree,
that, as Mass John approached the house in which it passed, he beheld the slates and tiles
flying from the roof, as if dispersed by a whirlwind. At his entry, he perceived all the wax-tapers
(the most essential instruments of conjuration) extinguished, except one, which already burned
blue in the socket. The arrival of the experienced sage changed the scene: he brought the spirit
to reason; but, unfortunately, while addressing a word of advice or censure to his rash brother,
he permitted the ghost to obtain the last word; a circumstance which, in all colloquies of
this nature, is strictly to be guarded against. This fatal oversight occasioned his falling
into a lingering disorder, of which he never recovered.

A curious poem, upon the laying of a ghost, forms article No. V. of the Appendix.]

It is unnecessary to mention the superstitious belief in witchcraft, which gave rise to so
much cruelty and persecution during the seventeenth century. There were several executions
upon the borders for this imaginary crime, which was usually tried, not by the ordinary judges,
but by a set of country gentlemen, acting under commission from the privy council[52].

[Footnote 52: I have seen, penes Hugh Scott, Esq. of Harden, the record of the trial of a witch,
who was burned at Ducove. She was tried in the manner above mentioned.]

Besides these grand articles of superstitious belief, the creed of the borderers admitted the
existence of sundry classes of subordinate spirits, to whom were assigned peculiar employments.
The chief of these were the Fairies, concerning whom the reader will find a long dissertation,
in Volume Second. The Brownie formed a class of beings, distinct in habit and disposition from
the freakish and mischievous elves. He was meagre, shaggy, and wild in his appearance. Thus,
Cleland, in his satire against the Highlanders, compares them to

  "Faunes, or Brownies, if ye will,
  Or satyres come from Atlas hill."

In the day time, he lurked in remote recesses of the old houses which he delighted to haunt;
and, in the night, sedulously employed himself in discharging any laborious task which he thought
might be acceptable to the family, to whose service he had devoted himself. His name is probably
derived from the Portuni, whom Gervase of Tilbury describes thus: "Ecce enim in Anglia daemones
quosdam habent, daemones, inquam, nescio dixerim, an secretae et ignotae generationis effigies,
quos Galli Neptunos, Angli Portunos nominant. Istis insitum est quod simplicitatem fortunatonum
colonorum amplectuntur, et cum nocturnas propter domesticas operas agunt vigilias, subito clausis
januis ad ignem califiunt, et ranunculus ex sinu projectas, prunis impositas concedunt, senili
vultu, facie corrugata, statura pusilli, dimidium pollicis non habentes. Panniculis consertis
induuntur, et si quid gestandum in domo fuerit, aut onerosi opens agendum, ad operandum se
jungunt citius humana facilitate expediunt. Id illis insitum est, ut obsequi possint et obesse
non possint."--Otia. Imp. p. 980. In every respect, saving only the feeding upon frogs, which
was probably an attribute of the Gallic spirits alone, the above description corresponds with
that of the Scottish Brownie. But the latter, although, like Milton's lubbar fiend, he loves
to stretch himself by the fire[53], does not drudge from the hope of recompence. On the contrary,
so delicate is his attachment, that the offer of reward, but particularly of food, infallibly
occasions his disappearance for ever[54]. We learn from Olaus Magnus, that spirits, somewhat
similar in their operations to the Brownie, were supposed to haunt the Swedish mines. The passage,
in the translation of 1658, runs thus: "This is collected in briefe, that in northerne kingdomes
there are great armies of devils, that have their services, which they perform with the inhabitants
of these countries: but they are most frequent in rocks and mines, where they break, cleave,
and make them hollow: which also thrust in pitchers and buckets, and carefully fit wheels and
screws, whereby they are drawn upwards; and they shew themselves to the labourers, when they
list, like phantasms and ghosts." It seems no improbable conjecture, that the Brownie is a
legitimate descendant of the Lar Familiaris of the ancients.

L'Allegro.

When the menials in a Scottish family protracted their vigils around the kitchen fire, Brownie,
weary of being excluded from the midnight hearth, sometimes appeared at the door, seemed to
watch their departure, and thus admonished them--"Gang a' to your beds, sirs, and dinna put
out the wee grieshoch (embers)."]

[Footnote 54: It is told of a Brownie, who haunted a border family, now extinct, that the lady
having fallen unexpectedly in labour, and the servant, who was ordered to ride to Jedburgh
for the sage femme, shewing no great alertness in setting out, the familiar spirit slipt on
the great-coat of the lingering domestic, rode to the town on the laird's best horse, and returned
with the mid-wife en croupe. Daring the short space of his absence, the Tweed, which they must
necessarily ford, rose to a dangerous height. Brownie, who transported his charge with all
the rapidity of the ghostly lover of Lenoré, was not to be stopped by this obstacle. He plunged
in with the terrified old lady, and landed her in safety where her services were wanted. Having
put the horse into the stable (where it was afterwards found in a woeful plight), he proceeded
to the room of the servant, whose duty he had discharged; and, finding him just in the act
of drawing on his boots, he administered to him a most merciless drubbing with his own horse-whip.
Such an important service excited the gratitude of the laird; who, understanding that Brownie
had been heard to express a wish to have a green coat, ordered a vestment of that colour to
be made, and left in his haunts. Brownie took away the green coat, but never was seen more.
We may suppose, that, tired of his domestic drudgery, he went in his new livery to join the
fairies.--See Appendix, No. VI.

The last Brownie, known in Ettrick forest, resided in Bodsbeck, a wild and solitary spot, where
he exercised his functions undisturbed, till the scrupulous devotion of an old lady induced
her to hire him away, as it was termed, by placing in his haunt a porringer of milk and a piece
of money. After receiving this hint to depart, he was heard the whole night to howl and cry,
"Farewell to bonny Bodsbeck!" which he was compelled to abandon for ever.]

A being, totally distinct from those hitherto mentioned, is the Bogle, or Goblin; a freakish
spirit, who delights rather to perplex and frighten mankind; than either to serve, or seriously
to hurt, them. This is the Esprit Follet of the French; and Puck, or Robin Goodfellow, though
enlisted by Shakespeare among the fairy band of Oberon, properly belongs to this class of phantoms.
Shellycoat, a spirit, who resides in the waters, and has given his name to many a rock and
stone upon the Scottish coast, belongs also to the class of bogles[55]. When he appeared, he
seemed to be decked with marine productions, and, in particular with shells, whose clattering
announced his approach. From this circumstance he derived his name. He may, perhaps, be identified
with the goblin of the northern English, which, in the towns and cities, Durham and Newcastle
for example had the name of Barquest; but, in the country villages, was more frequently termed
Brag. He usually ended his mischievous frolics with a horse-laugh.

[Footnote 55: One of his pranks is thus narrated: Two men, in a very dark night, approaching
the banks of the Ettrick, heard a doleful voice from its waves repeatedly exclaim--"Lost! lost!"--They
followed the sound, which seemed to be the voice of a drowning person, and, to their infinite
astonishment, they found that it ascended the river. Still they continued, during a long and
tempestuous night, to follow the cry of the malicious sprite; and arriving, before morning's
dawn, at the very sources of the river, the voice was now heard descending the opposite side
of the mountain in which they arise. The fatigued and deluded travellers now relinquished the
pursuit; and had no sooner done so, than they heard Shellycoat applauding, in loud bursts of
laughter, his successful roguery. The spirit was supposed particularly to haunt the old house
of Gorrinberry, situated on the river Hermitage, in Liddesdale.]

Shellycoat must not be confounded with Kelpy, a water spirit also, but of a much more powerful
and malignant nature. His attributes have been the subject of a poem in Lowland Scottish, by
the learned Dr. Jamieson of Edinburgh, which adorns the third volume of this collection. Of
Kelpy, therefore, it is unnecessary to say any thing at present.

Of all these classes of spirits it may be, in general observed, that their attachment was supposed
to be local, and not personal. They haunted the rock, the stream, the ruined castle, without
regard to the persons or families to whom the property belonged. Hence, they differed entirely
from that species of spirits, to whom, in the Highlands, is ascribed the guardianship, or superintendance
of a particular clan, or family of distinction; and who, perhaps yet more than the Brownie,
resemble the classic household gods. Thus, in an MS. history of Moray, we are informed, that
the family of Gurlinbeg is haunted by a spirit, called Garlin Bodacher; that of the baron of
Kinchardin, by Lamhdearg[56], or Red-hand, a spectre, one of whose hands is as red as blood;
that of Tullochgorm, by May Moulach, a female figure, whose left hand and arm were covered
with hair, who is also mentioned in Aubrey's Miscellanies, pp. 211, 212, as a familiar attendant
upon the elan Grant. These superstitions were so ingrafted in the popular creed, that the clerical
synods and presbyteries were wont to take cognizance of them[57].

[Footnote 56: The following notice of Lamhdearg occurs in another account of Strathspey, apud
Macfarlane's MSS.:--"There is much talke of a spirit called Ly-erg, who frequents the Glenmore.
He appears with a red hand, in the habit of a souldier, and challenges men to fight with him;
as lately as 1669, he fought with three brothers, one after another, who immediately died thereafter."]

[Footnote 57: There is current, in some parts of Germany, a fanciful superstition concerning
the Stille Volke, or silent people. These they suppose to be attached to houses of eminence,
and to consist of a number, corresponding to that of the mortal family, each person of which
has thus his representative amongst these domestic spirits. When the lady of the family has
a child, the queen of the silent people is delivered in the same moment. They endeavour to
give warning when danger approaches the family, assist in warding it off, and are sometimes
seen to weep and wring their hands, before inevitable calamity.]

Various other superstitions, regarding magicians, spells, prophecies, &c., will claim our attention
in the progress of this work. For the present, therefore taking the advice of an old Scottish
rhymer, let us

  "Leave bogles, brownies, gyre carlinges, and ghaists[58]."

[Footnote 58: So generally were these tales of diablerie believed, that one William Lithgow,
a bon vivant, who appears to have been a native, or occasional inhabitant, of Melrose, is celebrated
by the pot-companion who composed his elegy, because

  He was good company at jeists.
  And wanton when he came to feists,
  He scorn'd the converse of great beasts,
  O'er a sheep's head;
  He laugh'd at stones about ghaists;
  Blythe Willie's dead!

Watson's Scotish Poems, Edin. 1706.]

Flyting of Polwart and Montgomery.

The domestic economy of the borderers next engages our attention. That the revenue of the chieftain
should be expended in rude hospitality, was the natural result of his situation. His wealth
consisted chiefly in herds of cattle, which were consumed by the kinsmen, vassals, and followers,
who aided him to acquire and to protect them[59]. We learn from Lesley, that the borderers
were temperate in the use of intoxicating liquors, and we are therefore left to conjecture
how they occupied the time, when winter, or when accident, confined them to their habitations.
The little learning, which existed in the middle ages, glimmered a dim and a dying flame in
the religious houses; and even in the sixteenth century, when its beams became more widely
diffused, they were far from penetrating the recesses of the border mountains. The tales of
tradition, the song, with the pipe or harp of the minstrel, were probably the sole resources
against ennui, during the short intervals of repose from military adventure.

[Footnote 59: We may form some idea of the stile of life maintained by the border warriors,
from the anecdotes, handed down by tradition, concerning Walter Scott of Harden, who flourished
towards the middle of the sixteenth century. This ancient laird was a renowned freebooter,
and used to ride with a numerous band of followers. The spoil, which they carried off from
England, or from their neighbours, was concealed in a deep and impervious glen, on the brink
of which the old tower of Harden was situated. From thence the cattle were brought out, one
by one, as they were wanted, to supply the rude and plentiful table of the laird. When the
last bullock was killed and devoured, it was the lady's custom to place on the table a dish,
which, on being uncovered, was found to contain a pair of clean spurs; a hint to the riders,
that they must shift for their next meal. Accordingly, he sounded his bugle, mounted his horse,
set out with his followers, and returned next day with "a bow of kye, and a bussen'd (brindled)
bull." On his return with this gallant prey, he passed a very large hay-stack. It occurred
to the provident laird, that this would be extremely convenient to fodder his new stock of
cattle; but as no means of transporting it occurred, he was fain to take leave of it with this
apostrophe, now proverbial: "By my soul, had ye but four feet, ye should not stand lang there."
In short, as Froissard says of a similar class of feudal robbers, nothing came amiss to them,
that was not too heavy, or too hot. The same mode of house-keeping characterized most border
families on both sides. An MS. quoted in History of Cumberland, p. 466, concerning the Graemes
of Netherby, and others of that clan, runs thus: "They were all stark moss-troopers and arrant
thieves: both to England and Scotland outlawed: yet sometimes connived at, because they gave
intelligence forth of Scotland, and would raise 400 horse at any time, upon a raid of the English
into Scotland." A saying is recorded of a mother to her son (which is now become proverbial),
"Ride Rouly (Rowland), hough's i' the pot;" that is, the last piece of beef was in the pot,
and therefore it was high time for him to go and fetch more. To such men might with justice
be applied the poet's description of the Cretan warrior; translated by my friend, Dr. Leyden.

  My sword, my spear, my shaggy shield,
  With these I till, with these I sow;
  With these I reap my harvest field,
  The only wealth the Gods bestow.
  With these I plant the purple vine,
  With these I press the luscious wine.

Hybrias (ap. Athenaeum).]

This brings us to the more immediate subject of the present publication.

Lesley, who dedicates to the description of border manners a chapter, which we have already
often quoted, notices particularly the taste of the marchmen for music and ballad poetry. "Placent
admodum sibi sua musica, et rythmicis suis cantionibus, quas de majorum suorum gestis, aut
ingeniosis predandi precandive stratagematis ipsi confingunt. "--Leslaeus, in capitulo de moribus
eorum, qui Scotiae limites Angliam versus incolunt. The more rude and wild the state of society,
the more general and violent is the impulse received from poetry and music. The muse, whose
effusions are the amusement of a very small part of a polished nation, records, in the lays
of inspiration, the history the laws, the very religion, of savages.--Where the pen and the
press are wanting, the low of numbers impresses upon the memory of posterity, the deeds and
sentiments of their forefathers. Verse is naturally connected with music; and, among a rude
people, the union is seldom broken. By this natural alliance, the lays, "steeped in the stream
of harmony," are more easily retained by the reciter, and produce upon his audience a more
impressive effect. Hence, there has hardly been found to exist a nation so brutishly rude,
as not to listen with enthusiasm to the songs of their bards, recounting the exploits of their
forefathers, recording their laws and moral precepts, or hymning the praises of their deities.
But, where the feelings are frequently stretched to the highest pitch, by the vicissitudes
of a life of danger and military adventure, this predisposition of a savage people, to admire
their own rude poetry and music, is heightened, and its tone becomes peculiarly determined.
It is not the peaceful Hindu at his loom, it is not the timid Esquimaux in his canoe, whom
we must expect to glow at the war song of Tyrtaeus. The music and the poetry of each country
must keep pace with their usual tone of mind, as well as with the state of society.

The morality of their compositions is determined by the same circumstances. Those themes are
necessarily chosen by the bard, which regard the favourite exploits of the hearers; and he
celebrates only those virtues, which from infancy he has been taught to admire. Hence, as remarked
by Lesley, the music and songs of the borders were of a military nature, and celebrated the
valour and success of their predatory expeditions. Razing, like Shakespeare's pirate, the eighth
commandment from the decalogue, the minstrels praised their chieftains for the very exploits,
against which the laws of the country denounced a capital doom.--An outlawed freebooter was
to them a more interesting person, than the King of Scotland exerting his power to punish his
depredations; and, when the characters are contrasted, the latter is always represented as
a ruthless and sanguinary tyrant.--Spenser's description of the bards of Ireland applies in
some degree, to our ancient border poets. "There is, among the Irish, a certain kinde of people,
called bardes, which are to them instead of poets; whose profession is to set forth the praises
or dispraises of men, in their poems or rhymes; the which are had in such high regard or esteem
amongst them, that none dare displease them, for fear of running into reproach through their
offence, and to be made infamous in the mouths of all men; for their verses are taken up with
a general applause, and usually sung at all feasts and meetings, by certain other persons,
whose proper function that is, who also receive, for the same, great rewardes and reputation
amongst them." Spenser, having bestowed due praise upon the poets, who sung the praises of
the good and virtuous, informs us, that the bards, on the contrary, "seldom use to chuse unto
themselves the doings of good men for the arguments of their poems; but whomsoever they finde
to be most licentious of life, most bold and lawless in his doings, most dangerous and desperate
in all parts of disobedience, and rebellious disposition, him they set up and glorify in their
rhythmes; him they praise to the people, and to young men make an example to follow."--Eudoxus--"I
marvail what kind of speeches they can find, or what faces they can put on, to praise such
bad persons, as live so lawlessly and licentiously upon stealths and spoyles, as most of them
do; or how they can think, that any good mind will applaud or approve the same." In answer
to this question, Irenaeus, after remarking the giddy and restless disposition of the ill educated
youth of Ireland, which made them prompt to receive evil counsel, adds, that such a person,
"if he shall find any to praise him, and to give him any encouragement, as those bards and
rhythmers do, for little reward, or a share of a stolen cow[60], then waxeth he most insolent,
and half-mad, with the love of himself and his own lewd deeds. And as for words to set forth
such lewdness, it is not hard for them to give a goodly and painted show thereunto, borrowed
even from the praises which are proper to virtue itself. As of a most notorious thief, and
wicked outlaw, which had lived all his life-time of spoils and robberies, one of their bardes,
in his praise, will say, 'that he was none of the idle milk-sops that was brought up by the
fire-side, but that most of his days he spent in arms and valiant enterprizes; that he never
did eat his meat, before he had won it with his sword; that he lay not all night slugging in
his cabin under his mantle, but used commonly to keep others waking to defend their lives,
and did light his candle at the flames of their houses to lead him in the darkness; that the
day was his night, and the night his day; that he loved not to be long wooing of wenches to
yield to him; but, where he came, he took by force the spoil of other men's love, and left
but lamentations to their lovers; that his music was not the harp, nor lays of love, but the
cries of people, and clashing of armour; and, finally, that he died, not bewailed of many,
but made many wail when he died, that dearly bought his death.' Do not you think, Eudoxus,
that many of these praises might be applied to men of best deserts? Yet, are they all yielded
to a most notable traitor, and amongst some of the Irish not smally accounted of."--State of
Ireland. The same concurrence of circumstances, so well pointed out by Spenser, as dictating
the topics of the Irish bards, tuned the border harps to the praise of an outlawed Armstrong,
or Murray.

[Footnote 60: The reward of the Welch bards, and perhaps of those upon the border, was very
similar. It was enacted by Howel Dha, that if the king's bard played before a body of warriors,
upon a predatory excursion, be should receive, in recompence, the best cow which the party
carried off.--Leges Walliae, I. 1. cap. 19.]

For similar reasons, flowing from the state of society, the reader must not expect to find,
in the border ballads, refined sentiment, and, far less, elegant expression; although the stile
of such compositions has, in modern hands, been found highly susceptible of both. But passages
might be pointed out, in which the rude minstrel has melted in natural pathos, or risen into
rude energy. Even where these graces are totally wanting, the interest of the stories themselves,
and the curious picture of manners, which they frequently present, authorise them to claim
some respect from the public. But it is not the editor's present intention to enter upon a
history of border poetry; a subject of great difficulty, and which the extent of his information
does not as yet permit him to engage in. He will, therefore, now lay before the reader the
plan of the present publication; pointing out the authorities from which his materials are
derived and slightly noticing the nature of the different classes into which he has arranged them.

The MINSTRELSY of the SCOTTISH BORDER contains Three Classes of Poems:

    I. HISTORICAL BALLADS. II. ROMANTIC. III. IMITATIONS OF THESE
    COMPOSITIONS BY MODERN AUTHORS.

The Historical Ballad relates events, which we either know actually to have taken place, or
which, at least, making due allowance for the exaggerations of poetical tradition, we may readily
conceive to have had some foundation in history. For reasons already mentioned, such ballads
were early current upon the border. Barbour informs us, that he thinks it unnecessary to rehearse
the account of a victory, gained in Eskdale over the English, because

  --Whasa liks, thai may her
  Young women, when thai will play,
  Syng it among thaim ilk day.--

The Bruce, Book XVI.

Godscroft also, in his History of the House of Douglas, written in the reign of James VI.,
alludes more than once to the ballads current upon the border, in which the exploits of those
heroes were celebrated. Such is the passage, relating to the death of William Douglas, Lord
of Liddesdale, slain by the Earl of Douglas, his kinsman, his godson, and his chief[61]. Similar
strains of lamentation were poured by the border poets over the tomb of the Hero of Otterbourne;
and over the unfortunate youths, who were dragged to an ignominious death, from the very table
at which they partook of the hospitality of their sovereign. The only stanza, preserved of
this last ballad, is uncommonly animated--

  Edinburgh castle, towne and toure,
  God grant thou sink for sinne!
  And that even for the black dinoure,
  Erl Douglas gat therein.

Who will not regret, with the editor, that compositions of such interest and antiquity should
be now irrecoverable? But it is the nature of popular poetry, as of popular applause, perpetually
to shift with the objects of the time; and it is the frail chance of recovering some old manuscript,
which can alone gratify our curiosity regarding the earlier efforts of the border muse. Some
of her later strains, composed during the sixteenth century, have survived even to the present
day; but the recollection of them has, of late years, become like that of "a tale which was
told." In the sixteenth century, these northern tales appear to have been popular even in London;
for the learned Mr. Ritson has obligingly pointed out to me the following passages, respecting
the noted ballad of Dick o' the Cow (p. 157); "Dick o' the Cow, that mad demi-lance northern
borderer, who plaid his prizes with the lord Jockey so bravely."--Nashe's Have with you to
Saffren-Walden, or Gabriell Harvey's Hunt is up.--1596, 4to. Epistle Dedicatorie, sig. A. 2.
6. And in a list of books, printed for, and sold by, P. Brocksby (1688), occurs "Dick-a-the-Cow,
containing north country songs[62]." Could this collection have been found, it would probably
have thrown much light on the present publication: but the editor has been obliged to draw
his materials chiefly from oral tradition.

[Footnote 61: "The Lord of Liddisdale being at his pastime, hunting in Ettrick forest, is beset
by William, Earl of Douglas, and such as he had ordained for the purpose, and there asailed,
wounded, and slain, beside Galsewood, in the year 1353, upon a jealousy that the earl had conceived
of him with his lady, as the report goeth; for so sayeth the old song,

  "The countess of Douglas out of her bower she came,
  And loudly there that she did call--
  It is for the Lord of Liddisdale,
  That I let all these tears down fall."

"The song also declareth, how she did write her love-letters to Liddisdale, to dissuade him
from that hunting. It tells likewise the manner of the taking of his men, and his own killing
at Galsewood; and how he was carried the first night to Linden kirk, a mile from Selkirk, and
was buried in the abbey of Melrose."--Godscroft, Vol. I. p. 144, Ed. 1743.

Some fragments of this ballad are still current, and will be found in the ensuing work.]

[Footnote 62: The Selkirkshire ballad of Tamlane seems also to have been well known in England.
Among the popular heroes of romance, enumerated in the introduction to the history of "Tom
Thumbe," (London, 1621, bl. letter), occurs "Tom a Lin, the devil's supposed bastard." There
is a parody upon the same ballad in the "Pinder of Wakefield" (London, 1621).]

Something may be still found in the border cottages resembling the scene described by Pennycuik.

  On a winter's night, my grannam spinning,
  To mak a web of good Scots linnen;
  Her stool being placed next to the chimley,
  (For she was auld, and saw right dimly,)
  My lucky dad, an honest whig,
  Was telling tales of Bothwell-brigg;
  He could not miss to mind the attempt,
  For he was sitting pu'ing hemp;
  My aunt, whom' nane dare say has no grace,
  Was reading on the Pilgrim's Progress;
  The meikle tasker, Davie Dallas,
  Was telling blads of William Wallace;
  My mither bade her second son say,
  What he'd by heart of Davie Lindsay;
  Our herd, whom all folks hate that knows him,
  Was busy hunting in his bosom;

         *       *       *       *       *

  The bairns, and oyes, were all within doors;}
  The youngest of us chewing cinders,}
  And all the auld anes telling wonders.}

Pennycuik's Poems, p. 7.

The causes of the preservation of these songs have either entirely ceased, or are gradually
decaying Whether they were originally the composition of minstrels, professing the joint arts
of poetry and music; or whether they were the occasional effusions of some self-taught bard;
is a question into which I do not here mean to enquire. But it is certain, that, till a very
late period, the pipers, of whom there was one attached to each border town of note, and whose
office was often hereditary, were the great depositaries of oral, and particularly of poetical,
tradition. About spring time, and after harvest, it was the custom of these musicians to make
a progress through a particular district of the country. The music and the tale repaid their
lodging, and they were usually gratified with a donation of seed corn[63]. This order of minstrels
is alluded to in the comic song of Maggy Lauder, who thus addresses a piper--

  "Live ye upo' the border?"

By means of these men, much traditional poetry was preserved, which must otherwise have perished.
Other itinerants, not professed musicians, found their welcome to their night's quarters readily
insured by their knowledge in legendary lore. John Graeme, of Sowport, in Cumberland, commonly
called The Long Quaker[64], a person of this latter description, was very lately alive; and
several of the songs, now published, have been taken down from his recitation. The shepherds
also, and aged persons, in the recesses of the border mountains, frequently remember and repeat
the warlike songs of their fathers. This is more especially the case in what are called the
South Highlands, where, in many instances, the same families have occupied the same possessions
for centuries.

[Footnote 63: These town pipers, an institution of great antiquity upon the borders, were certainly
the last remains of the minstrel race. Robin Hastie, town-piper of Jedburgh, perhaps the last
of the order, died nine or ten years ago: his family was supposed to have held the office for
about three centuries. Old age had rendered Robin a wretched performer; but he knew several
old songs and tunes, which have probably died along with him. The town-pipers received a livery
and salary from the community to which they belonged; and, in some burghs, they had a small
allotment of land, called the Piper's Croft. For further particulars regarding them, see Introduction
to Complaynt of Scotland, Edinburgh, 1801, p. 142.]

[Footnote 64: This person, perhaps the last of our professed ballad reciters, died since the
publication of the first edition of this work. He was by profession an itinerant cleaner of
clocks and watches; but, a stentorian voice, and tenacious memory, qualified him eminently
for remembering accurately, and reciting with energy, the border gathering songs and tales
of war. His memory was latterly much impaired; yet, the number of verses which he could pour
forth, and the animation of his tone and gestures, formed a most extraordinary contrast to
his extreme feebleness of person, and dotage of mind.]

It is chiefly from this latter source that the editor has drawn his materials, most of which
were collected, many years ago, during his early youth. But he has been enabled, in many instances,
to supply and correct the deficiencies of his own copies, from a collection of border songs,
frequently referred to in the work, under the title of Glenriddell's MS. This was compiled,
from various sources, by the late Mr. Riddell, of Glenriddel, a sedulous border antiquary,
and, since his death, has become the property of Mr. Jollie, bookseller at Carlisle; to whose
liberality the editor owes the use of it, while preparing this work for the press. No liberties
have been taken, either with the recited or written copies of these ballads, farther than that,
where they disagreed, which is by no means unusual, the editor, in justice to the author, has
uniformly preserved what seemed to him the best, or most poetical, reading of the passage.
Such discrepancies must very frequently occur, wherever poetry is preserved by oral tradition;
for the reciter, making it a uniform principle to proceed at all hazards, is very often, when
his memory fails him, apt to substitute large portions from some other tale, altogether distinct
from that which he has commenced. Besides, the prejudices of clans and of districts have occasioned
variations in the mode of telling the same story. Some arrangement was also occasionally necessary,
to recover the rhyme, which was often, by the ignorance of the reciters, transposed, or thrown
into the middle of the line. With these freedoms, which were essentially necessary to remove
obvious corruptions, and fit the ballads for the press, the editor presents them to the public,
under the complete assurance, that they carry with them the most indisputable marks of their
authenticity.

The same observations apply to the Second Class, here termed ROMANTIC BALLADS; intended to
comprehend such legends as are current upon the border, relating to fictitious and marvellous
adventures Such were the tales, with which the friends of Spenser strove to beguile his indisposition:

  "Some told of ladies, and their paramours;
  Some of brave knights, and their renowned squires;
  Some of the fairies, and their strange attires,
  And some of giants, hard to be believed."

These, carrying with them a general, and not merely a local, interest, are much more extensively
known among the peasantry of Scotland than the border-raid ballads, the fame of which is in
general confined to the mountains where they were originally composed. Hence, it has been easy
to collect these tales of romance, to a number much greater than the editor has chosen to insert
in this publication[65]. With this class are now intermingled some lyric pieces, and some ballads,
which, though narrating real events, have no direct reference to border history or manners.
To the politeness and liberality of Mr. Herd, of Edinburgh, the editor of the first classical
collection of Scottish songs and ballads (Edinburgh, 1774, 2 vols.), the editor is indebted
for the use of his MSS., containing songs and ballads, published and unpublished, to the number
of ninety and upwards. To this collection frequent references are made, in the course of the
following pages. Two books of ballads, in MS., have also been communicated to me, by my learned
and respected friend, Alexander Fraser Tytler, Esq[66]. I take the liberty of transcribing
Mr. Tytler's memorandum respecting the manner in which they came into his hands. "My father[67]
got the following songs from an old friend, Mr. Thomas Gordon, professor of philosophy, King's
College, Aberdeen. The following extract of a letter of the professor to me, explains how he
came by them:--"An aunt of my children, Mrs Farquhar, now dead, who was married to the proprietor
of a small estate, near the sources of the Dee, in Braemar, a good old woman, who spent the
best part of her life among flocks and herds, resided in her latter days in the town of Aberdeen.
She was possest of a most tenacious memory, which retained all the songs she had heard from
nurses and country-women in that sequestered part of the country. Being maternally fond of
my children, when young, she had them much about her, and delighted them with her songs, and
tales of chivalry. My youngest daughter, Mrs Brown, at Falkland, is blest with a memory as
good as her aunt, and has almost the whole of her songs by heart. In conversation I mentioned
them to your father, at whose request, my grandson, Mr Scott, wrote down a parcel of them,
as his aunt sung them. Being then but a mere novice in music, he added, in the copy, such musical
notes, as, he supposed, might give your father some notion of the airs, or rather lilts, to
which they were sung."

[Footnote 65: Mr. Jamieson of Macclesfield, a gentleman of literary and poetical accomplishment,
has for some years been employed in a compilation of Scottish ballad poetry, which is now in
the press, and will probably be soon given to the public. I have, therefore, as far as the
nature of my work permitted, sedulously avoided anticipating any of his materials; as I am
very certain he himself will do our common cause the most ample justice.]

[Footnote 66: Now a senator of the College of Justice, by the title of Lord Woodhouselee.]

[Footnote 67: William Tytler, Esq. the ingenious defender of Queen Mary, and author of a Dissertation
upon Scotish Music, which does honour to his memory.]

From this curious and valuable collection, the editor has procured very material assistance.
At the same time, it contains many beautiful legendary poems, of which he could not avail himself,
as they seemed to be the exclusive property of the bards of Angus and Aberdeenshire. But the
copies of such, as were known on the borders, have furnished him with various readings, and
with supplementary stanzas, which he has frequent opportunities to acknowledge. The MSS. are
cited under the name of Mrs. Brown of Falkland, the ingenious lady, to whose taste and memory
the world is indebted for the preservation of the tales which they contain. The other authorities,
which occur during the work, are particularly referred to. Much information has been communicated
to the editor, from various quarters, since the work was first published of which he has availed
himself, to correct and enlarge the present edition.

In publishing both classes of ancient ballads, the editor has excluded those which are to be
found in the common collections of this nature, unless in one or two instances, where he conceived
it possible to give some novelty, by historical or critical illustration.

It would have been easy for the editor to have given these songs an appearance of more indisputable
antiquity, by adopting the rude orthography of the period, to which he is inclined to refer
them. But this (unless when MSS. of antiquity can be referred to) seemed too arbitrary an exertion
of the privileges of a publisher, and must, besides, have unnecessarily increased the difficulties
of many readers. On the other hand, the utmost care has been taken, never to reject a word
or phrase, used by a reciter, however uncouth or antiquated.

BURNS.

The meaning of such obsolete words is usually given at the bottom of the page. For explanation
of the more common peculiarities of the Scottish dialect, the English reader is referred to
the excellent glossary annexed to the last edition of Burns' works.

The Third Class of Ballads are announced to the public, as MODERN IMITATIONS of the Ancient
Style of composition, in that department of poetry; and they are founded upon such traditions
as we may suppose in the elder times would have employed the harps of the minstrels. This kind
of poetry has been supposed capable of uniting the vigorous numbers and wild fiction, which
occasionally charm us in the ancient ballad, with a greater equality of versification, and
elegance of sentiment, than we can expect to find in the works of a rude age. But, upon my
ideas of the nature and difficulty of such imitations, I ought in prudence to be silent; lest
I resemble the dwarf, who brought with him a standard to measure his own stature. I may, however,
hint at the difference, not always attended to, betwixt legendary poems and real imitations
of the old ballad; the reader will find specimens of both in the modern part of this collection.
The legendary poem, called Glenfinlas, and the ballad, entituled the Eve of St. John, were
designed as examples of the difference betwixt these two kinds of composition.

It would have the appearance of personal vanity, were the editor to detail the assistance and
encouragement which he has received, during his undertaking, from some of the first literary
characters of our age. The names of Stuart, Mackenzie, Ellis, Currie, and Ritson, with many
others, are talismans too powerful to be used, for bespeaking the world's favour to a collection
of old songs; even although a veteran bard has remarked, "that both the great poet of Italian
rhyme, Petrarch, and our Chaucer, and other of the upper house of the muses, have thought their
canzons honoured in the title of a ballad." To my ingenious friend, Dr. John Leyden, my readers
will at once perceive that I lie under extensive obligations, for the poetical pieces, with
which he has permitted me to decorate my compilation; but I am yet farther indebted to him
for his uniform assistance, in collecting and arranging materials for the work.

In the notes, and occasional dissertations, it has been my object to throw together, perhaps
without sufficient attention to method, a variety of remarks, regarding popular superstitions,
and legendary history, which, if not now collected, must soon have been totally forgotten.
By such efforts, feeble as they are, I may contribute somewhat to the history of my native
country; the peculiar features of whose manners and character are daily melting and dissolving
into those of her sister and ally. And, trivial as may appear such an offering, to the manes
of a kingdom, once proud and independent, I hang it upon her altar with a mixture of feelings,
which I shall not attempt to describe.

  "--Hail, land of spearmen! seed of those who scorn'd
  To stoop the proud crest to Imperial Rome!
  Hail! dearest half of Albion, sea-wall'd!
  Hail! state unconquer'd by the fire of war,
  Red war, that twenty ages round thee blaz'd!
  To thee, for whom my purest raptures flow,
  Kneeling with filial homage, I devote
  My life, my strength, my first and latest song."

APPENDIX. No. I.

LETTER FROM THE EARL OF SURREY, TO HENRY VIII. GIVING AN ACCOUNT OF THE STORM OF JEDBURGH.

Cott. MSS. Calig. B. III. fol. 29.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Pleisith it your grace to be advertised, that upon Fridaye, at x a clok at nyght, I retourned
to this towne, and all the garnysons to their places assigned, the bushopricke men, my Lorde
of Westmoreland, and my Lord Dacre, in likewise evry man home with their companys, without
los of any men, thanked be God; saving viii or x slayne, and dyvers hurt, at skyrmyshis and
saults of the town of Gedwurth, and the forteressis, which towne is soo suerly brent, that
no garnysons ner none other shal bee lodged there, unto the tyme it bee newe buylded; the brennyng
whereof I comytted to twoo sure men, Sir William Bulmer, and Thomas Tempeste. The towne was
moche bettir then I went (i.e. ween'd) it had been, for there was twoo tymys moo houses therein
then in Berwike, and well buylded, with many honest and faire houses therein, sufficiente to
have lodged M horsemen in garnyson, and six good towres therein; whiche towne and towres be
clenely distroyed, brent, and throwen downe. Undoubtedly there was noo journey made into Scotland,
in noo manys day leving, with soo fewe a nombre that is recownted to be soo high an enterprice
as this, bothe with thies contremen, and Scottishmen, nor of truthe so moche hurt doon. But
in th' ende a great mysfortune ded fall, onely by foly, that such ordre, as was commaunded
by me to be kepte, was not observed, the maner whereof hereaftir shall ensue. Bifore myn entre
into Scotland, I appointed Sir William Bulmer and Sir William Evers too be marshallis of th'
army; Sir William Bulmer for the vangard, and Sir William Evers for the reregard. In the vangard
I appointed my Lord of Westmoreland, as chief, with all the bushopricke, Sir William Bulmer,
Sir William Evers, my Lord Dacre, with all his company; and with me remayned all the rest of
the garnysons, and the Northumberland men. I was of counsaill with the marshallis at th' ordering
of our lodgingg, and our campe was soo well envirowned with ordynance, carts, and dikes, that
hard it was to entre or issue, but at certain places appointed for that purpos, and assigned
the mooste commodious place of the saide campe for my Lord Dacre company, next the water, and
next my Lord of Westmoreland. And at suche tyme as my Lord Dacre came into the fald, I being
at the sault of th' abby, whiche contynued unto twoo houres within nyght, my seid Lord Dacre
wold in nowise bee contente to ly within the campe, whiche was made right sure, but lodged
himself without, wherewith, at my retourne, I was not contente, but then it was to late to
remove; the next daye I sente my seid Lorde Dacre to a strong hold, called Fernherst, the lorde
whereof was his mortal enemy; and with hym, Sir Arthur Darcy, Sir Marmaduke Constable, with
viii c. of their men, one cortoute, and dyvers other good peces of ordynance for the feld (the
seid Fernherste stode marvelous strongly, within a grete woode); the seid twoo knights with
the moost parte of their men, and Strickland, your grace servaunte, with my Kendall men, went
into the woode on fote, with th' ordynance, where the said Kendall men were soo handled, that
they found hardy men, that went noo foote back for theym; the other two knightes were alsoo
soo sharply assayled, that they were enforced to call for moo of their men; and yet could not
bring the ordynance to the forteresse, unto the tyme my Lord Dacre, with part of his horsemen,
lighted on fote; and marvelously hardly handled himself, and fynally, with long skirmyshing,
and moche difficultie, gat forthe th' ordynance within the howse and threwe downe the same.
At which skyrmyshe, my seid Lord Dacre, and his brother, Sir Cristofer, Sir Arthure, and Sir
Marmaduke, and many other gentilmen, did marvellously hardly; and found the best resistence
that hath been seen with my comyng to their parties, and above xxxii Scottis sleyne, and not
passing iiij Englishmen, but above lx hurt. Aftir that, my seid lord retournyng to the campe,
wold in nowise bee lodged in the same, but where he laye the furst nyght. And he being with
me at souper, about viij a clok, the horses of his company brak lowse, and sodenly ran out
of his feld, in such nombre, that it caused a marvellous alarome in our feld; and our standing
watche being set, the horses cam ronnyng along the campe, at whome were shot above one hundred
shief of arrowes, and dyvers gonnys, thinking they had been Scotts, that wold have saulted
the campe; fynally the horses were soo madde, that they ran like wild dere into the feld; above
xv c. at the leest, in dyvers companys, and, in one place, above I felle downe a gret rok,
and slewe theymself, and above ij c. ran into the towne being on fire, and by the women taken,
and carried awaye right evill brent, and many were taken agayne. But, fynally, by that I can
esteme by the nombre of theym that I sawe goo on foote the next daye, I think thare is lost
above viij c. horses, and all with foly for lak of not lying within the camp. I dare not write
the wondres that my Lord Dacre, and all his company, doo saye they sawe that nyght, vj. tymys
of spirits and fereful sights. And unyversally all their company saye playnly, the devill was
that nyght among theym vi tymys; whiche mysfortune hath blemyshed the best journey that was
made in Scotland many yeres. I assure your grace I found the Scottes, at this tyme, the boldest
men, and the hotest, that ever I sawe any nation, and all the journey, upon all parts of th'
army, kepte us with soo contynuall skyrmyshe, that I never sawe the like. If they myght assemble
xl M as good men as I nowe sawe, xv c or ij M, it wold bee a hard encountre to mete theym.
Pitie it is of my Lord Dacres losse of the horses of his company; he brought with hym above
iiij M. men, and came and lodged one night in Scotland, in his moost mortal enemy's centre.
There is noo herdyer, ner bettir knyght, but often tyme he doth not use the most sure order,
which he hath nowe payed derely for. Written at Berwike the xxvij of September.

Your most bownden,

T. SURREY.

APPENDIX, No. II.

HISTORY OF GEORDIE BOURNE.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the following passages, extracted from the memoirs of Sir Robert Carey, then deputy of his
father, Lord Hunsdon, warden of the east marches, afterwards Earl of Monmouth, the reader will
find a lively illustration of the sketch given of border manners in the preceding Introduction.

"Having thus ended with my brother, I then beganne to thinke of the charge I had taken upon
mee, which was the government of the east march, in my father's absence. I wrote to Sir Robert
Kerr[68], who was my opposite warden, a brave active young man, and desired him that hee would
appoint a day, when hee and myselfe might privately meet in some part of the border, to take
some good order for the quieting the borders, till my retourne from London, which journey I
was shortly of necessity to take. Hee stayed my man all night, and wrote to mee back, that
hee was glad to have the happinesse to be acquainted with mee, and did not doubt but the country
would be better governed by our good agreements. I wrote to him on the Monday, and the Thursday
after hee appointed the place and hour of meeting.

[Footnote 68: Sir Robert Kerr of Cessford, warden of the middle marches, and ancestor of the
house of Roxburghe.]

"After hee had filled my man with drinke, and putt him to bed, hee, and some halfe a score
with him, gott to horse, and came into England to a little village. There hee broke up a house,
and tooke out a poore fellow, who (hee pretended) had done him some wrong, and before the doore
cruelly murthered him, and so came quietly home, and went to bed. The next morning hee delivered
my man a letter in answer to mine, and retourned him to mee. It pleased mee well at the reading
of his kinde letter; but when I heard what a brave hee had put upon mee, I quickly resolved
what to do, which was, never to have to do with him, till I was righted for the greate wrong
hee had done mee. Upon this resolution, the day I should have mett with him I tooke post, and
with all the haste I could, rode to London, leaving him to attend my coming to him as was appointed.
There hee stayed from one till five, but heard no news of mee. Finding by this that I had neglected
him, hee retourned home to his house, and so things rested (with greate dislike the one of
the other) till I came back, which was with all the speede I could, my businesse being ended.
The first thing I did after my retourne, was to ask justice for the wrong hee had done mee;
but I could gett none. The borderers, seeing our disagreement, they thought the time wished
for of them was come. The winter being beganne, their was roades made out of Scotland into
the east march, and goods were taken three or foure times a weeke. I had no other meanes left
to quiet them, but still sent out of the garrison horsemen of Berwick, to watch in the fittest
places for them, and it was their good hap many times to light upon them, with the stolen goods
driving before them. They were no sooner brought before mee, but a jury went upon them, and,
being found guilty, they were frequently hanged: a course which hath been seldom used, but
I had no way to keep the country quiet but to do so; for, when the Scotch theeves found what
a sharp course I tooke with them, that were found with the bloody hand, I had in a short time
the country more quiet. All this while wee were but in jest as it were, but now beganne the
greate quarrell betweene us.

"There was a favorite of his, a greate theife, called Geordie Bourne. This gallant, with some
of his associates would, in a bravery, come and take goods in the east march. I had that night
some of the garrison abroad. They met with this Geordie and his fellowes, driving of cattle
before them. The garrison set upon them, and with a shott killed Geordie Bourne's unckle, and
hee himselfe bravely resisting till he was sore hurt in the head, was taken. After hee was
taken, his pride was such, as hee asked, who it was that durst avow that nightes worke? but
when hee heard it was the garrison, he was then more quiet. But so powerfull and awfull was
this Sir Robert Kerr, and his favourites, as there was not a gentleman in all the east march
that durst offend them. Presently after hee was taken, I had most of the gentlemen of the march
come to mee, and told mee, that now I had the ball at my foote, and might bring Sir Robert
Kerr to what conditions I pleased; for that this man's life was so neere and deare unto him,
as I should have all that my heart could desire, for the good and quiet of the country and
myselfe, if upon any condition I would give him his life. I heard them and their reasons; notwithstanding,
I called a jury the next morning, and hee was found guilty of MARCH TREASON. Then they feared
that I would cause him to be executed that afternoone, which made them come flocking to mee,
humbly entreating mee, that I would spare his life till the next day, and if Sir Robert Kerr
came not himselfe to mee, and made mee not such proffers, as I could not but accept, that then
I should do with him what I pleased. And further, they told mee plainly, that if I should execute
him, before I had heard from Sir Robert Kerr, they must be forced to quitt their houses and
fly the country; for his fury would be such, against mee and the march I commanded, as hee
would use all his power and strength to the utter destruction of the east march. They were
so earnest with mee, that I gave them my word hee should not dye that day. There was post upon
post sent to Sir Robert Kerr, and some of them rode to him themselves, to advertise him in
what danger Geordie Bourne was; how he was condemned, and should have been executed that afternoone,
but, by their humble suite, I gave them my word, that he should not dye that day; and therefore
besought him, that hee would send to mee, with all the speede hee could, to let mee know, that
hee would be the next day with mee to offer mee good conditions for the safety of his life.
When all things were quiet, and the watch set at night, after supper, about ten of the clock,
I tooke one of my men's liveryes, and putt it about mee, and tooke two other of my servants
with mee in their liveryes, and we three, as the warden's men, came to the provost marshall's,
where Bourne was, and were lett into his chamber. Wee sate down by him, and told him, that
wee were desirous to see him, because wee heard hee was stoute and valiant, and true to his
friend; and that wee were sorry our master could not be moved to save his life. He voluntarily
of himselfe said, that hee had lived long enough to do so many villainies as hee had done;
and withal told us, that hee had layne with about forty men's wives, what in England, what
in Scotland; and that hee had killed seven Englishmen with his own hands, cruelly murthering
them: that hee had spent his whole time in whoreing, drinking, stealing, and taking deep revenge
for slight offences. Hee seemed to be very penitent, and much desired a minister for the comfort
of his soule. Wee promised him to lett our master know his desire, who, wee knew, would presently
grant it. Wee tooke our leaves of him, and presently I tooke order, that Mr. Selby, a very
worthy honest preacher, should go to him, and not stirre from him till his execution the next
morning; for, after I had heard his own confession, I was resolved no conditions should save
his life: and so tooke order, that at the gates opening the next morning, hee should be carried
to execution, which accordingly was performed. The next morning I had one from Sir Robert Kerr
for a parley, who was within two miles staying for mee. I sent him word, "I would meet him
where hee pleased, but I would first know upon what termes and conditions." Before his man
was retourned, hee had heard, that in the morning, very early, Geordie Bourne had been executed.
Many vowes hee made of cruell revenge, and retourned home full of griefe and disdaine, and,
from that time forward still plotted revenge. Hee knew the gentlemen of the country were altogether
sacklesse, and to make open road upon the march would but shew his malice, and lay him open
to the punishment due to such offences. But his practice was how to be revenged on mee, or
some of mine.

"It was not long after that my brother and I had intelligence, that there was a great match
made at footeball and the chiefe ryders were to be there. The place they were to meet at was
Kelsy, and that day, wee heard it, was the day for the meeting. Wee presently called a counsaile,
and after much dispute it was concluded, that the likeliest place hee was to come to, was to
kill the scoutes. And it was the more suspected, for that my brother, before my coming to the
office, for the cattaile stolne out of the bounds, and as it were from under the walles of
Barwicke, being refused justice (upon his complaint,) or at least delaid, sent off the garrison
into Liddisdale, and killed there the chiefe offender, which had done the wrong.

"Upon this conclusion, there was order taken, that both horse and foote should lye in ambush,
in diverse parts of the boundes, to defend the scoutes, and to give a sound blow to Sir Robert
and his company. Before the horse and foote were sett out with directions what to do, it was
almost darke night, and the gates ready to be lockt. Wee parted, and as I was by myselfe comeing
to my house, God put it into my mind, that it might well be, hee meant destruction to my men,
that I had sent out to gather tithes for mee at Norham, and their rendezvous was every night
to lye and sup at an ale-house in Norham. I presently caused my page to take horse, and to
ride as fast as his horse could carry him, and to command my servants (which were in all eight)
that, presently upon his coming to them, they should all change their lodging, and go streight
to the castle, there to lye that night in strawe and hay. Some of them were unwilling thereto,
but durst not disobey; so altogether left their ale-house, and retired to the castle. They
had not well settled themeselves to sleep, but they heard in the town a great alarm; for Sir
Robert and his company came streight to the ale-house, broke open the doors, and made enquiry
for my servants. They were answered, that by my command they were all in the castle. After
they had searched all the house, and found none, they feared they were betrayed, and, with
all the speede they could, made haste homewards again. Thus God blessed me from this bloody
tragedy.

"All the whole march expected nightly some hurt to be done; but God so blessed mee and the
government I held, as, for all his fury, hee never drew drop of blood in all my march, neither
durst his theeves trouble it much with stealing, for fear of hanging, if they were taken. Thus
wee continued a yeare, and then God sent a meanes to bring thinges to better quiet by this
occasion.

"There had been commissioners in Barwicke, chosen by the queene and king of Scottes, for the
better quieting of our borders. By their industry they found a great number of malefactors
guilty, both in England and Scotland; and they tooke order, that the officers of Scotland should
deliver such offenders, as were found guilty in their jurisdictions, to the opposite officers
in England, to be detained prisoners, till they had made satisfaction for the goods they had
taken out of England. The like order was taken with the wardens of England, and days prefixed
for the delivery of them all. And in case any of the officers, on either side, should omit
their duties, in not delivering the prisoners at the dayes and places appointed, that then
there should a course be taken by the soveraignes, that what chiefe officer soever should offend
herein, he himself should be delivered and detained, till he had made good what the commissioners
had agreed upon.

"The English officers did punctually, at the day and place, deliver their prisoners, and so
did most of the officers of Scotland; only the Lord of Bocleuch and Sir Robert Kerr were faultie.
They were complained of, and new dayes appointed for the delivery of their prisoners. Bocleuch
was the first, that should deliver; and hee failing entered himselfe prisoner into Barwicke,
there to remaine till those officers under his charge were delivered to free him. He chose
for his guardian Sir William Selby, master of the ordinance at Barwicke. When Sir Robert Kerr's
day of delivery came, he failed too, and my Lord Hume, by the king's command, was to deliver
him prisoner into Barwicke upon the like termes, which was performed. Sir Robert Kerr (contrary
to all men's expectation) chose mee for his guardian, and home I brought him to my own house,
after hee was delivered to mee. I lodged him as well as I could, and tooke order for his diet,
and men to attend on him, and sent him word, that (although by his harsh carriage towards mee,
ever since I had that charge, he could not expect any favour, yet) hearing so much goodness
of him, that hee never broke his word, if hee should give mee his hand and credit to be a true
prisoner, hee would have no guard sett upon him, but have free liberty for his friends in Scotland
to have ingresse and regresse to him as oft as hee pleased. He tooke this very kindly at my
handes, accepted of my offer, and sent me thankes.

"Some four dayes passed; all which time his friends came into him, and hee kept his chamber.
Then hee sent to mee, and desired mee, I would come and speake with him, which I did; and after
long discourse, charging and re-charging one another with wrong and injuries, at last, before
our parting, wee became good friends, with greate protestations, on his side, never to give
mee occasion of unkindnesse again. After our reconciliation hee kept his chamber no longer,
but dined and supt with mee. I tooke him abroad with mee at the least thrice a weeke, a hunting,
and every day wee grew better friends. Bocleuch, in a few dayes after, had his pledges delivered,
and was set at liberty. But Sir Robert Kerr could not get his, so that I was commanded to carry
him to Yorke, and there to deliver him prisoner to the archbishop, which accordingly I did.
At our parting, he professed greate love unto mee for the kinde usage I had shewn him, and
that I would find the effects of it upon his delivery, which hee hoped would be shortly.

"Thus wee parted; and, not long after, his pledges were gott, and brought to Yorke, and hee
sett at liberty. After his retourne home, I found him as good as his word. Wee met oft at dayes
of truce, and I had as good justice as I could desire; and so wee continued very kinde and
good friends, all the time that I stayed in that march, which was not long."

APPENDIX, No. III.

MAITLAND'S COMPLAYNT AGANIS THE THIEVIS OF LIDDISDAIL, FROM PINKERTON'S EDITION, COLLATED WITH
A MS. OF MAITLAND'S POEMS, IN THE LIBRARY OF EDINBURGH COLLEGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Of Liddisdail the commoun theifis
  Sa peartlie steillis now and reifis,
  That nane may keip
  Horse, nolt, nor scheip,
  Nor yett dar sleip
  For their mischeifis.

  Thay plainly throw the country rydis,
  I trow the mekil devil thame gydis!
  Quhair they onsett,
  Ay in thair gaitt,
  Thair is na yet
  Nor dor, thame bydis.

  Thay leif rich nocht, quhair ever thay ga;
  Thair can na thing be hid thame fra;
  For gif men wald
  Thair housis hald,
  Than waxe thay bald,
  To burne and slay.

  Thay thiefs have neirhand herreit hail,
  Ettricke forest and Lawderdaill;
  Now are they gane,
  In Lawthiane;
  And spairis nane
  That thay will waill.

  Thay landis ar with stouth sa socht,
  To extreame povertye ar broucht,
  Thay wicked schrowis
  Has laid the plowis,
  That nane or few is
  That are left oucht.

  Bot commoun taking of blak mail,
  Thay that had flesche, and breid and aill,
  Now are sa wrakit,
  Made bair and nakit,
  Fane to be slaikit
  With watter caill.

  Thay theifs that steillis and tursis hame,
  Ilk ane of them has ane to-name[69];
  Will of the Lawis,
  Hab of the Schawis:
  To mak bair wawis
  Thay thinke na schame.

  Thay spuilye puir men of their pakis,
  Thay leif them nocht on bed nor bakis;
  Baith hen and cok,
  With reil and rok,
  The Lairdis Jok,
  All with him takis.

  Thay leif not spindell, spoone, nor speit;
  Bed, boster, blanket, sark, nor scheit;
  Johne of the Parke
  Ryps kist and ark;
  For all sic wark
  He is richt meit.

  He is weil kend, John of the Syde;
  A greater theif did never ryde.
  He never tyris
  For to brek byris:
  Ouir muir and myris
  Ouir gude ane gyde.

  Thair is ane, callet Clement's Hob,
  Fra ilk puir wyfe reifis the wob,
  And all the lave,
  Quhatever they haife,
  The devil recave
  Thairfoir his gob.

  To sic grit stouth quha eir wald trow it,
  Bot gif some great man it allowit
  Rycht sair I trow
  Thocht it be rew:
  Thair is sa few
  That dar avow it.

  Of sum great men they have sic gait,
  That redy are thame to debait,
  And will up weir
  Thair stolen geir;
  That nane dare steir
  Thame air nor late.

  Quhat causis theifis us ourgang,
  Bot want of justice us amang?
  Nane takis cair,
  Thocht all for fear;
  Na man will spair
  Now to do wrang.

  Of stouth thocht now thay come gude speid,
  That nother of men nor God has dreid;
  Yet, or I die,
  Sum sail thame sie,
  Hing on a trie
  Quhill thay be deid--

Quo' Sir R.M. of Lethington, knicht.

[Footnote 69: Owing to the marchmen being divided into large clans, bearing the same sirname,
individuals were usually distinguished by some epithet, derived from their place of residence,
personal qualities, or descent. Thus, every distinguished moss-trooper had, what is here called,
a to-name, or nom de guerre, in addition to his family name.]

APPENDIX, No. IV.

BOND OF ALLIANCE, OR FEUD STAUNCHING, BETWIXT THE CLANS OF SCOTT AND KER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The battle of Melrose (see Introduction, p. xvii.) occasioned a deadly feud betwixt the name
of Scott and Ker. The following indenture was designed to reconcile their quarrel. But the
alliance, if it ever took effect, was not of long duration; for the feud again broke out about
1553, when Sir Walter Scott was slain by the Kers, in the streets of Edinburgh.

"Thir indentures, made at Ancrum the 16th of March, 1529 years, contains, proports, and bears
leil and suithfast witnessing. And also, baith the saids parties bind and oblige them, be the
faith and truth of their bodies, that they abide at the decreet and deliverance of the six
men chosen arbiters, anent all other matters, quarrels, actiones, and debates, whilk either
of them likes to propone against others betwixt the saids parties: and also the six arbiters
are bound and obliged to decreet and deliver, and give forth their deliverance thereuntil,
within year and day after the date hereof.--And attour, either of the saids parties bind and
oblige them, be the faith and truth of their bodies, ilk ane to others, that they shall be
leil and true to others, and neither of them will another's skaith, but they shall let it at
their power, and give to others their best counsel, and it be asked; and shall take leil and
aeffald part ilk ane with others, with their kin, friends, servants, allies, and partakers,
in all and sundry their actions, quarrels, and debates, against all that live and die (may
the allegiance of our sovereign lord the king allenarly be excepted).--And for the obliging
and keeping all thir premises above written, baith the saids parties are bound and obliged,
ilk ane to others, be the faith and truth of their bodies, but fraud or guile, under the pain
of perjury, men-swearing, defalcation, and breaking of the bond of deadly. And, in witness
of the whilk, ilk ane to the procuratory of this indenture remain with the said Walter Scot
and his friends, the said Walter Ker of Cessford has affixed his proper seal, with his subscription
manual, and with the subscription of the said Andrew Ker of Fairnieherst, Mark Ker of Dolphinston,
George Ker, tutor of Cessford, and Andrew Ker of Primesideloch, before these witnesses, Mr.
Andrew Drurie, abbot of Melrose, and George Douglas of Boonjedward, John Riddel of that ilk,
and William Stewart.

Sic Subscribitur,

WALTER KER of Cessford.

ANDREW KER of Fairnieherst.

MARK KER.

GEORGE KER.

ANDREW KER of Primesideloch."

N.B. The four pilgrimages are Scoon, Dundee, Paisley, and Melrose.

APPENDIX, No. V.

ANE INTERLUDE OF THE LAYING OF A GAIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

This burlesque poem is preserved in the Bannatyne MSS. It is in the same strain with the verses
concerning the Gyre Carline (Vol. II.) As the mention of Bettokis Bowr occurs in both pieces,
and as the scene of both is laid in East Lothian, they are perhaps composed by the same author.
The humour of these fragments seems to have been directed against the superstitions of Rome;
but it is now become very obscure. Nevertheless, the verses are worthy of preservation, for
the sake of the ancient language and allusions.

  Listen lordis, I sall you tell,
  Off ane very grit marvell,
  Off Lord Fergussis gaist,
  How meikle Sir Andro it chest,
  Unto Beittokis bour,
  The silly sawle to succour:
  And he hes writtin unto me,
  Auld storeis for to se,
  Gif it appinis him to meit,
  How he sall conjure the spreit:
  And I haif red mony quars,
  Bath the Donet, and Dominus que pars,
  Ryme maid, and als redene,
  Baith Inglis and Latene:
  And ane story haif I to reid,
  Passes Bonitatem in the creid.
  To conjure the litill gaist he mon haif
  Of tod's tails ten thraif,
  And kast the grit holy water
  With pater noster, pitter patter;
  And ye man sit in a compas,
  And cry, Harbert tuthless,
  Drag thow, and ye's draw,
  And sit thair quhill cok craw.
  The compas mon hallowit be
  With aspergis me Domine;
  The haly writ schawis als
  Thair man be hung about your bals
  Pricket in ane woll poik
  Of neis powder ane grit loik.
  Thir thingis mon ye beir,
  Brynt in ane doggis eir,
  Ane pluck, ane pindill, and ane palme cors,
  Thre tuskis of ane awld hors,
  And of ane yallow wob the warp,
  The boddome of ane awld herp,
  The held of ane cuttit reill,
  The band of an awld quheill,
  The taill of ane yeild sow,
  And ane bait of blew wow,
  Ane botene, and ane brechame,
  And ane quhorle made of lame,
  To luke out at the litill boir,
  And cry, Crystis crosse, you befoir:
  And quhen ye see the litill gaist,
  Cumand to you in all haist,
  Cry loud, Cryste eleisone,
  And speir quhat law it levis on?
  And gif it sayis on Godis ley,
  Than to the litill gaist ye say,
  With braid benedicite;
  --"Litill gaist, I conjure the,
  With lierie and larie,
  Bayth fra God, and Sanct Marie,
  First with ane fischis mouth,
  And syne with ane sowlis towth,
  With ten pertane tais,
  And nyne knokis of windil strais,
  With thre heidis of curle doddy."--
  And bid the gaist turn in a boddy.
  Then efter this conjuratioun,
  The litill gaist will fall in soun,
  And thair efter down ly,
  Cryand mercy petously;
  Than with your left heil sane,
  And it will nevir cum agane,
  As meikle as a mige amaist.[70]

  He had a litill we leg,
  And it wes cant as any cleg,
  It wes wynd in ane wynden schet,
  Baythe the handis and the feit:
  Suppose this gaist wes litill
  Yit it stal Godis quhitell;
  It stal fra peteous Abrahame,
  Ane quhorle and ane quhim quhame;
  It stal fra ye carle of ye mone
  Ane payr of awld yin schone;
  It rane to Pencatelane,
  And wirreit ane awld chaplane;
  This litill gaist did na mair ill
  Bot clok lyk a corn mill;
  And it wald play and hop,
  About the heid ane stre strop;
  And it wald sing and it wald dance,
  Oure fute, and Orliance.
  Quha conjurit the litill gaist say ye?
  Nane bot the litill Spenzie fle,
  That with hir wit and her ingyne,
  Gart the gaist leif agane;
  And sune mareit the gaist the fle,
  And croun'd him King of Kandelie;
  And they gat them betwene,
  Orpheus king, and Elpha quene.[71]
  To reid quha will this gentill geist,
  Ye hard it not at Cockilby's feist.[72]

[Footnote 70: Apparently some lines are here omitted.]

[Footnote 71: This seems to allude to the old romance of Orfeo and Heurodis, from which the
reader will find some extracts, Vol. II. The wife of Orpheus is here called Elpha, probably
from her having been extracted by the elves, or fairies.]

[Footnote 72: Alluding to a strange unintelligible poem in the Bannatyne MSS., called Cockelby's
sow.]

APPENDIX, No. VI.

SUPPLEMENTAL STANZAS TO COLLINS'S ODE ON THE SUPERSTITIONS OF THE HIGHLANDS.

BY

WILLIAM ERSKINE, ESQ. ADVOCATE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The editor embraces this opportunity of presenting the reader with the following stanzas, intended
to commemorate some striking Scottish superstitions, omitted by Collins in his ode upon that
subject; and which, if the editor can judge with impartiality of the production of a valued
friend, will be found worthy of the sublime original. The reader must observe, that these verses
form a continuation of the address, by Collins, to the author of Douglas, exhorting him to
celebrate the traditions of Scotland. They were first published in the Edinburgh Magazine,
for April, 1788.

       *       *       *       *       *
  Thy muse may tell, how, when at evening's close,
  To meet her love beneath the twilight shade,
  O'er many a broom-clad brae and heathy glade,
  In merry mood the village maiden goes;
  There, on a streamlet's margin as she lies,
  Chaunting some carol till her swain appears,
  With visage deadly pale, in pensive guise,
  Beneath a wither'd fir his form he rears![73]
  Shrieking and sad, she bends her irie flight,
  When, mid dire heaths, where flits the taper blue,
  The whilst the moon sheds dim a sickly light,
  The airy funeral meets her blasted view!
  When, trembling, weak, she gains her cottage low,
  Where magpies scatter notes of presage wide,
  Some one shall tell, while tears in torrents flow,
  That, just when twilight dimm'd the green hill's side,
  Far in his lonely sheil her hapless shepherd died.

[Footnote 73: The wraith, or spectral appearance, of a person shortly to die, is a firm article
in the creed of Scottish superstition. Nor is it unknown in our sister kingdom. See the story
of the beautiful lady Diana Rich.--Aubrey's Miscellanies, p, 89.]

  Let these sad strains to lighter sounds give place!
  Bid thy brisk viol warble measures gay!
  For see! recall'd by thy resistless lay,
  Once more the Brownie shews his honest face.
  Hail, from thy wanderings long, my much lov'd sprite!
  Thou friend, thou lover of the lowly, hail!
  Tell, in what realms thou sport'st thy merry night,
  Trail'st the long mop, or whirl'st the mimic flail.
  Where dost thou deck the much-disordered hall,
  While the tired damsel in Elysium sleeps,
  With early voice to drowsy workman call,
  Or lull the dame, while mirth his vigils keeps?
  'Twas thus in Caledonia's domes, 'tis said,
  Thou ply'dst the kindly task in years of yore:
  At last, in luckless hour, some erring maid
  Spread in thy nightly cell of viands store:
  Ne'er was thy form beheld among their mountains more.[74]

  [Footnote 74: See Introduction, p. ci.]

  Then wake (for well thou can'st) that wond'rous lay,
  How, while around the thoughtless matrons sleep,
  Soft o'er the floor the treacherous fairies creep,
  And bear the smiling infant far away:
  How starts the nurse, when, for her lovely child,
  She sees at dawn a gaping idiot stare!
  O snatch the innocent from demons vilde,
  And save the parents fond from fell despair!
  In a deep cave the trusty menials wait,
  When from their hilly dens, at midnight's hour,
  Forth rush the airy elves in mimic state,
  And o'er the moon-light heath with swiftness scour:
  In glittering arms the little horsemen shine;
  Last, on a milk-white steed, with targe of gold,
  A fay of might appears, whose arms entwine
  The lost, lamented child! the shepherds bold[75]
  The unconscious infant tear from his unhallowed hold.

[Footnote 75: For an account of the Fairy superstition, see Introduction to the Tale of Tamlane.]

MINSTRELSY OF THE SCOTTISH BORDER.

PART FIRST.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORICAL BALLADS.

SIR PATRICK SPENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

One edition of the present ballad is well known; having appeared in the Reliques of Ancient
Poetry, and having been inserted in almost every subsequent collection of Scottish songs. But
it seems to have occurred to no editor, that a more complete copy of the song might be procured.
That, with which the public is now presented, is taken from two MS. copies,[76] collated with
several verses recited by the editor's friend, Robert Hamilton, Esq. advocate, being the 16th,
and the four which follow. But, even with the assistance of the common copy, the ballad seems
still to be a fragment. The cause of Sir Patrick Spens' voyage is, however, pointed out distinctly;
and it shews, that the song has claim to high antiquity, as referring to a very remote period
in Scottish history.

[Footnote 76: That the public might possess this carious fragment as entire as possible, the
editor gave one of these copies, which seems the most perfect, to Mr. Robert Jamieson, to be
inserted in his Collection.]

Alexander III. of Scotland died in 1285; and, for the misfortune of his country, as well as
his own, he had been bereaved of all his children before his decease. The crown of Scotland
descended upon his grand-daughter, Margaret, termed, by our historians, the Maid of Norway.
She was the only offspring of a marriage betwixt Eric, king of Norway, and Margaret, daughter
of Alexander III. The kingdom had been secured to her by the parliament of Scotland, held at
Scone, the year preceding her grandfather's death. The regency of Scotland entered into a congress
with the ministers of the king of Norway and with those of England, for the establishment of
good order in the kingdom of the infant princess. Shortly afterwards, Edward I. conceived the
idea of matching his eldest son, Edward, Prince of Wales, with the young queen of Scotland.
The plan was eagerly embraced by the Scottish nobles; for, at that time, there was little of
the national animosity, which afterwards blazed betwixt the countries, and they patriotically
looked forward to the important advantage, of uniting the island of Britain into one kingdom.
But Eric of Norway seems to have been unwilling to deliver up his daughter; and, while the
negociations were thus protracted, the death of the Maid of Norway effectually crushed a scheme,
the consequences of which might have been, that the distinction betwixt England and Scotland
would, in our day, have been as obscure and uninteresting as that of the realms of the heptarchy.--Hailes'
Annals. Fordun, &c.

The unfortunate voyage of Sir Patrick Spens may really have taken place, for the purpose of
bringing back the Maid of Norway to her own kingdom; a purpose, which was probably defeated
by the jealousy of the Norwegians, and the reluctance of King Eric. I find no traces of the
disaster in Scottish history; but, when we consider the meagre materials, whence Scottish history
is drawn, this is no conclusive argument against the truth of the tradition. That a Scottish
vessel, sent upon such an embassy, must, as represented in the ballad, have been freighted
with the noblest youth in the kingdom, is sufficiently probable; and, having been delayed in
Norway, till the tempestuous season was come on, its fate can be no matter of surprise. The
ambassadors, finally sent by the Scottish nation to receive their queen, were Sir David Wemyss,
of Wemyss, and Sir Michael Scot of Balwearie; the same, whose knowledge, surpassing that of
his age, procured him the reputation of a wizard. But, perhaps, the expedition of Sir Patrick
Spens was previous to their embassy. The introduction of the king into the ballad seems a deviation
from history; unless we suppose, that Alexander was, before his death, desirous to see his
grand-child and heir.

The Scottish monarchs were much addicted to "sit in Dumfermline town," previous to the accession
of the Bruce dynasty. It was a favourite abode of Alexander himself, who was killed by a fall
from his horse, in the vicinity, and was buried in the abbey of Dumfermline.

There is a beautiful German translation of this ballad, as it appeared in the Reliques, in
the Volk-Lieder of Professor Herder; an elegant work, in which it is only to be regretted,
that the actual popular songs of the Germans form so trifling a proportion.

The tune of Mr. Hamilton's copy of Sir Patrick Spens is different from that, to which the words
are commonly sung; being less plaintive, and having a bold nautical turn in the close.

SIR PATRICK SPENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

  The king sits in Dumfermline town,
  Drinking the blude-red wine;
  "O[77] whare will I get a skeely skippe[78],
  "To sail this new ship of mine?"

  O up and spake an eldern knight,
  Sat at the king's right knee,--
  "Sir Patrick Spens is the best sailor,
  "That ever sail'd the sea."

  Our king has written a braid letter.
  And seal'd it with his hand,
  And sent it to Sir Patrick Spens,
  Was walking on the strand.

  "To Noroway, to Noroway,
  "To Noroway o'er the faem;
  "The king's daughter of Noroway,
  "'Tis thou maun bring her hame."

  The first word that Sir Patrick read,
  Sae loud loud laughed he;
  The neist word that Sir Patrick read,
  The tear blinded his e'e.

  "O wha is this has done this deed,
  "And tauld the king o' me,
  "To send us out, at this time of the year,
  "To sail upon the sea?

  "Be it wind, be it weet, be it hail, be it sleet,
  "Our ship must sail the faem;
  "The king's daughter of Noroway,
  "'Tis we must fetch her hame,"

  They hoysed their sails on Monenday morn,
  Wi' a' the speed they may;
  They hae landed in Noroway,
  Upon a Wodensday.

  They hadna been a week, a week,
  In Noroway, but twae,
  When that the lords o' Noroway
  Began aloud to say,--

  "Ye Scottishmen spend a' our king's goud,
  "And a' our queenis fee."
  "Ye lie, ye lie, ye liars loud!
  "Fu' loud I hear ye lie."

  "For I brought as much white monie,
  "As gane[79] my men and me,
  "And I brought a half-fou[80] o' gude red goud,
  "Out o'er the sea wi' me."

  "Make ready, make ready, my merrymen a'!
  "Our gude ship sails the morn."

  They hadna sailed a league, a league,
  A league but barely three,
  When the lift grew dark, and the wind blew loud,
  And gurly grew the sea.

  The ankers brak, and the topmasts lap,[81]
  It was sik a deadly storm;
  And the waves came o'er the broken ship,
  Till a' her sides were torn.

  "O where will I get a gude sailor,
  "To take my helm in hand,
  "Till I get up to the tall top-mast,
  "To see if I can spy land?"

  "O here am I, a sailor gude,
  "To take the helm in hand,
  "Till you go up to the tall top-mast;
  "But I fear you'll ne'er spy land."

  He hadna' gane a step, a step,
  A step, but barely ane,
  When a bout flew out of our goodly ship,
  And the salt sea it came in.

  "Gae, fetch a web o' the silken claith,
  "Another o' the twine,
  "And wap them into our ship's side,
  "And let na the sea come in."

  They fetched a web o' the silken claith,
  Another of the twine,
  And they wapped them round that gude ship's side,
  But still the sea came in.

  O laith, laith, were our gude Scots lords
  To weet their cork-heel'd shoon!
  But lang or a' the play was play'd,
  They wat their hats aboon.

  And mony was the feather-bed,
  That flattered[82] on the faem;
  And mony was the gude lord's son,
  That never mair cam hame.

  The ladyes wrang their fingers white,
  The maidens tore their hair,
  A' for the sake of their true loves;
  For them they'll see na mair.

  O lang, lang, may the ladyes sit,
  Wi' their fans into their hand,
  Before they see Sir Patrick Spens
  Come sailing to the strand!

  And lang, lang, may the maidens sit,
  Wi' their goud kaims in their hair,
  A' waiting for their ain dear loves!
  For them they'll see na mair.

  O forty miles off Aberdeen,
  'Tis fifty fathom deep,
  And there lies gude Sir Patrick Spens,
  Wi' the Scots lords at his feet.

[Footnote 77: In singing, the interjection, O, is added to the second and fourth lines.]

[Footnote 78: Skeely skipper--Skilful mariner.]

[Footnote 79: Gane--Suffice.]

[Footnote 80: Half-fou--the eighth part of a peck.]

[Footnote 81: Lap--Sprang.]

[Footnote 82: Flattered--Fluttered, or rather floated, on the foam.]

NOTES ON SIR PATRICK SPENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

  To send us out at this time of the year,
  To sail upon the sea?--P. 8, v. 3.

By a Scottish act of parliament, it was enacted, that no ship should be fraughted out of the
kingdom, with any staple goods, betwixt the feast of St. Simon's day and Jude and Candelmas.--James
III. Parliament 2d, chap. 15. Such was the terror entertained for navigating the north seas
in winter.

  When a bout flew out of our goodly ship.--P. 10. v. 5.

I believe a modern seaman would say, a plank had started, which must have been a frequent incident
during the infancy of ship-building. The remedy applied seems to be that mentioned in Cook's
Voyages, when, upon some occasion, to stop a leak, which could not be got at in the inside,
a quilted sail was brought under the vessel, which, being drawn into the leak by the suction,
prevented the entry of more water. Chaucer says,

"There n'is no new guise that it na'as old."

  O forty miles off Aberdeen,--P. 11. v. 3.

This concluding verse differs in the three copies of the ballad, which I have collated. The
printed edition bears,

  "Have owre, have owre to Aberdour;"

And one of the MSS. reads,

  "At the back of auld St. Johnstowne Dykes."

But, in a voyage from Norway, a shipwreck on the north coast seems as probable as either in
the Firth of Forth, or Tay; and the ballad states the disaster to have taken place out of sight
of land.

AULD MAITLAND.

NEVER BEFORE PUBLISHED.

       *       *       *       *       *

This ballad, notwithstanding its present appearance, has a claim to very high antiquity. It
has been preserved by tradition; and is, perhaps, the most authentic instance of a long and
very old poem, exclusively thus preserved. It is only known to a few old people, upon the sequestered
banks of the Ettrick; and is published, as written down from the recitation of the mother of
Mr. James Hogg[83], who sings, or rather chaunts it, with great animation. She learned the
ballad from a blind man, who died at the advanced age of ninety, and is said to have been possessed
of much traditionary knowledge. Although the language of this poem is much modernised, yet
many words, which the reciters have retained, without understanding them, still preserve traces
of its antiquity. Such are the words Springals (corruptly pronounced Springwalls), sowies,
portcullize, and many other appropriate terms of war and chivalry, which could never have been
introduced by a modern ballad-maker. The incidents are striking and well-managed; and they
are in strict conformity with the manners of the age, in which they are placed. The editor
has, therefore, been induced to illustrate them, at considerable length, by parallel passages
from Froissard, and other historians of the period to which the events refer.

[Footnote 83: This old woman is still alive, and at present resides at Craig of Douglas, in
Selkirkshire.]

The date of the ballad cannot be ascertained with any degree of accuracy. Sir Richard Maitland,
the hero of the poem, seems to have been in possession of his estate about 1250; so that, as
he survived the commencement of the wars betwixt England and Scotland, in 1296, his prowess
against the English, in defence of his castle of Lauder, or Thirlestane, must have been exerted
during his extreme old age. He seems to have been distinguished for devotion, as well as valour;
for, A.D. 1249, Dominus Ricardus de Mautlant gave to the abbey of Dryburgh, "Terras suas de
Haubentside, in territorio suo de Thirlestane, pro salute animae suae, et sponsae suae, antecessorum
suorum et successorum suorum, in perpetuum[84]." He also gave, to the same convent, "Omnes
terras, quas Walterus de Giling tenuit in feodo suo de Thirlestane, et pastura incommuni de
Thirlestane, ad quadraginta oves, sexaginta vaccas, et ad viginti equos."--Cartulary of Dryburgh
Abbey, in the Advocates' Library.

[Footnote 84: There exists also an indenture, or bond, entered into by Patrick, abbot of Kelsau,
and his convent, referring to an engagement betwixt them and Sir Richard Maitland, and Sir
William, his eldest son, concerning the lands of Hedderwicke, and the pasturages of Thirlestane
and Blythe. This Patrick was abbot of Kelso, betwixt 1258 and 1260.]

From the following ballad, and from the family traditions referred to in the Maitland MSS.,
Auld Maitland appears to have had three sons; but we learn, from the latter authority, that
only one survived him, who was thence surnamed Burd alane, which signifies either unequalled,
or solitary. A Consolation, addressed to Sir Richard Maitland of Lethington, a poet and scholar
who flourished about the middle of the sixteenth century, and who gives name to the Maitland
MSS., draws the following parallel betwixt his domestic misfortunes and those of the first
Sir Richard, his great ancestor:

  Sic destanie and derfe devoring deid
  Oft his own hous in hazard put of auld;
  Bot your forbeiris, frovard fortounes steid
  And bitter blastes, ay buir with breistis bauld;
  Luit wanweirdis work and walter ay they wald,
  Thair hardie hairtis hawtie and heroik,
  For fortounes feid or force wald never fauld;
  Bot stormis withstand with stomak stoat and stoik.

  Renowned Richert of your race record,
  Quhais prais and prowis cannot be exprest;
  Mair lustie lynyage nevir haid ane lord,
  For he begat the bauldest bairnis and best,
  Maist manful men, and madinis maist modest,
  That ever wes syn Pyramus tym of Troy,
  But piteouslie thai peirles perles apest.
  Bereft him all hot Buird-allane, a boy.

  Himselfe was aiget, his hous hang be a har,
  Duill and distres almaist to deid him draife;
  Yet Burd-allane, his only son and air,
  As wretched, vyiss, and valient, as the laive,
  His hous uphail'd, quhilk ye with honor haive.
  So nature that the lyk invyand name,
  [85]In kindlie cair dois kindly courage craif,
  To follow him in fortoune and in fame.

  Richerd he wes, Richerd ye are also,
  And Maitland als, and magnanime as he;
  In als great age, als wrappit are in wo,
  Sewin sons[86] ye haid might contravaill his thrie,
  Bot Burd-allane ye haive behind as he:
  The lord his linage so inlarge in lyne,
  And mony hundreith nepotis grie and grie[87]
  Sen Richert wes as hundreth yeiris are hyne.

An Consolator Ballad to the Richt Honorabill Sir Richert Maitland of Lethingtoune.--Maitland
MSS. in Library of Edinburgh University.

[Footnote 85: i.e. Similar family distress demands the same family courage.]

[Footnote 86: Sewin sons--This must include sons-in-law; for the last Sir Richard, like his
predecessor, had only three sons, namely, I. William, the famous secretary of Queen Mary; II.
Sir John, who alone survived him, and is the Burd-allane of the consolation; III. Thomas, a
youth of great hopes, who died in Italy. But he had four daughters, married to gentlemen of
fortune.--Pinkerton's List of Scottish Poets, p. 114.]

[Footnote 87: Grie and grie--In regular descent; from gre, French.]

Sir William Mautlant, or Maitland, the eldest and sole surviving son of Sir Richard, ratified
and confirmed, to the monks of Dryburgh, "Omnes terras quas Dominus Ricardus de Mautlant pater
suus fecit dictis monachis in territorio suo de Thirlestane," Sir William is supposed to have
died about 1315.--Crawford's Peerage.

Such were the heroes of the ballad. The castle of Thirlestane is situated upon the Leader,
near the town of Lauder. Whether the present building, which was erected by Chancellor Maitland,
and improved by the Duke of Lauderdale, occupies the site of the ancient castle, I do not know;
but it still merits the epithet of a "darksome house." I find no notice of the siege in history;
but there is nothing improbable in supposing, that the castle, during the stormy period of
the Baliol wars, may have held out against the English. The creation of a nephew of Edward
I., for the pleasure of slaying him by the hand of young Maitland, is a poetical licence[88];
and may induce us to place the date of the composition about the reign of David II., or of
his successor, when the real exploits of Maitland, and his sons, were in some degree obscured,
as well as magnified, by the lapse of time. The inveterate hatred against the English, founded
upon the usurpation of Edward I., glows in every line of the ballad.

[Footnote 88: Such liberties with the genealogy of monarchs were common to romancers. Henry
the Minstrel makes Wallace slay more than one of King Edward's nephews; and Johnie Armstrong
claims the merit of slaying a sister's son of Henry VIII.]

Auld Maitland is placed, by Gawain Douglas, bishop of Dunkeld, among the popular heroes of
romance, in his allegorical Palice of Honour[89]:

[Footnote 89: It is impossible to pass over this curious list of Scottish romances without
a note; to do any justice to the subject would require an essay.--Raf Coilyear is said to have
been printed by Lekprevik, in 1572; but no copy of the edition is known to exist, and the hero
is forgotten, even by popular tradition.

John the Reif, as well as the former personage, is mentioned by Dunbar, in one of his poems,
where he stiles mean persons,

  Kyne of Rauf Colyard, and Johne the Reif.

They seem to have been robbers: Lord Hailes conjectured John the Reif to be the same with Johnie
Armstrong; but, surely, not with his usual accuracy; for the Palice of Honour was printed twenty-eight
years before Johnie's execution. John the Reif is mentioned by Lindesay, in his tragedy of
Cardinal Beatoun.

  --disagysit, like John the Raif, he geid.--

Cowkilbeis Sow is a strange legend in the Bannatyne MSS.--See Complaynt of Scotland, p. 131.

How the wren came out of Ailsay.--The wren, I know not why, is often celebrated in Scottish
song. The testament of the wren is still sung by the children, beginning,

  The wren she lies in care's nest,
  Wi' meikle dole and pyne.

This may be a modification of the ballad in the text.]

  I Saw Raf Coilyear with his thrawin brow,
  Crabit John the Reif, and auld Cowkilbeis Sow;
  And how the wran cam out of Ailsay,
  And Peirs Plowman[90], that meid his workmen few;
  Gret Gowmacmorne, and Fyn MacCowl, and how
  They suld be goddis in Ireland, as they say.
  Thair saw I Maitland upon auld beird gray,
  Robine Hude, and Gilbert with the quhite hand,
  How Hay of Nauchton flew in Madin land.

In this curious verse, the most noted romances, or popular histories, of the poet's day, seem
to be noticed. The preceding stanza describes the sports of the field; and that, which follows,
refers to the tricks of "jugailrie;" so that the three verses comprehend the whole pastimes
of the middle ages, which are aptly represented as the furniture of dame Venus's chamber. The
verse, referring to Maitland, is obviously corrupted; the true reading was, probably, "with
his auld beird gray." Indeed the whole verse is full of errors and corruptions; which is the
greater pity, as it conveys information, to be found no where else.

[Footnote 90: Peirs Plowman is well known. Under the uncouth names of Gow Mac Morn, and of
Fyn MacCowl, the admirers of Ossian are to recognise Gaul, the son of Morni, and Fingal himself;
heu quantum mutatus ab illo!

To illustrate the familiar character of Robin Hood, would be an insult to my readers. But they
may be less acquainted with Gilbert with the White Hand, one of his brave followers. He is
mentioned in the oldest legend of that outlaw; Ritson's Robin Hood, p. 52.

  Thryes Robin shot about,
  And alway he slist the wand,
  And so dyde good Gylberte
  With the White Hand.

Hay of Nachton I take to be the knight, mentioned by Wintown, whose feats of war and travel
may have become the subject of a romance, or ballad. He fought, in Flanders, under Alexander,
Earl of Mar, in 1408, and is thus described;

  Lord of the Nachtane, schire William,
  Ane honest knycht, and of gud fame,
  A travalit knycht lang before than.

And again, before an engagement,

  The lord of Nachtane, schire William
  The Hay, a knycht than of gud fame,
  Mad schire Gilberte the Hay, knycht.

Cronykil, B. IX. c. 27.

I apprehend we should read "How Hay of Nachton slew in Madin Land." Perhaps Madin is a corruption
for Maylin, or Milan Land.]

The descendant of Auld Maitland, Sir Richard of Lethington, seems to have been frequently complimented
on the popular renown of his great ancestor. We have already seen one instance; and in an elegant
copy of verses in the Maitland MSS., in praise of Sir Richard's seat of Lethingtoun, which
he had built, or greatly improved, this obvious topic of flattery does not escape the poet.
From the terms of his panegyric we learn, that the exploits of auld Sir Richard with the gray
beard, and of his three sons, were "sung in many far countrie, albeit in rural rhyme;" from
which we may infer, that they were narrated rather in the shape of a popular ballad, than in
a romance of price. If this be the case, the song, now published, may have undergone little
variation since the date of the Maitland MSS.; for, divesting the poem, in praise of Lethington,
of its antique spelling, it would run as smoothly, and appear as modern, as any verse in the
following ballad. The lines alluded to, are addressed to the castle of Lethington:

  And happie art thou sic a place,
  That few thy mak ar sene:
  But yit mair happie far that race
  To quhome thou dois pertene.
  Quha dais not knaw the Maitland bluid,
  The best in all this land?
  In quhilk sumtyme the honour stuid
  And worship of Scotland.

  Of auld Sir Richard, of that name,
  We have hard sing and say;
  Of his triumphant nobill fame,
  And of his auld baird gray.
  And of his nobill sonnis three,
  Quhilk that tyme had no maik;
  Quhilk maid Scotland renounit be,
  And all England to quaik.

  Quhais luifing praysis, maid trewlie,
  Efter that simple tyme,
  Ar sung in monie far countrie,
  Albeit in rural rhyme.
  And, gif I dar the treuth declair,
  And nane me fleitschour call,
  I can to him find a compair,
  And till his barnis all.

It is a curious circumstance, that this interesting tale, so often referred to by ancient authors,
should be now recovered in so perfect a state; and many readers may be pleased to see the following
sensible observations, made by a person, born in Ettrick Forest, in the humble situation of
a shepherd. "I am surprised to hear, that this song is suspected by some to be a modern forgery;
the contrary will be best proved, by most of the old people, hereabouts, having a great part
of it by heart. Many, indeed, are not aware of the manners of this country; till this present
age, the poor illiterate people, in these glens, knew of no other entertainment, in the long
winter nights, than repeating, and listening to, the feats of their ancestors, recorded in
songs, which I believe to be handed down, from father to son, for many generations; although,
no doubt, had a copy been taken, at the end of every fifty years, there must have been some
difference, occasioned by the gradual change of language. I believe it is thus that many very
ancient songs have been gradually modernised, to the common ear; while, to the connoisseur,
they present marks of their genuine antiquity."--Letter to the Editor from Mr. James Hogg.
To the observations of my ingenious correspondent I have nothing to add, but that, in this,
and a thousand other instances, they accurately coincide with my personal knowledge.

AULD MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

  There lived a king in southern land,
  King Edward hight his name;
  Unwordily he wore the crown,
  Till fifty years were gane.

  He had a sister's son o's ain,
  Was large of blood and bane;
  And afterward, when he came up,
  Young Edward hight his name.

  One day he came before the king,
  And kneel'd low on his knee--
  "A boon, a boon, my good uncle,
  "I crave to ask of thee!

  "At our lang wars, in fair Scotland,
  "I fain hae wished to be;
  "If fifteen hundred waled[90] wight men
  "You'll grant to ride wi' me."

  "Thou sail hae thae, thou sail hae mae;
  "I say it sickerlie;
  "And I mysell, an auld gray man,
  "Array'd your host sall see."

  King Edward rade, King Edward ran--
  I wish him dool and pyne!
  Till he had fifteen hundred men
  Assembled on the Tyne.

  And thrice as many at Berwicke[91]
  Were all for battle bound,
  Who, marching forth with false Dunbar,
  A ready welcome found.

  They lighted on the banks of Tweed,
  And blew their coals sae het,
  And fired the Merse and Teviotdale,
  All in an evening late.

  As they fared up o'er Lammermore,
  They burned baith up and down,
  Until they came to a darksome house;
  Some call it Leader-Town.

  "Wha hauds this house?" young Edward cry'd,
  "Or wha gies't ower to me?"
  A gray-hair'd knight set up his head,
  And crackit right crousely:

  "Of Scotland's king I haud my house;
  "He pays me meat and fee;
  "And I will keep my gude auld house,
  "While my house will keep me."

  They laid their sowies to the wall,
  Wi' mony a heavy peal;
  But he threw ower to them agen
  Baith pitch and tar barrel.

  With springalds, stanes, and gads of airn,
  Amang them fast he threw;
  Till mony of the Englishmen
  About the wall he slew.

  Full fifteen days that braid host lay,
  Sieging Auld Maitland keen,
  Syne they hae left him, hail and fair,
  Within his strength of stane.

  Then fifteen barks, all gaily good,
  Met them upon a day,
  Which they did lade with as much spoil
  As they could bear away.

  "England's our ain by heritage;
  "And what can us withstand,
  "Now we hae conquer'd fair Scotland,
  "With buckler, bow, and brand?"

  Then they are on to the land o' France,
  Where auld King Edward lay,
  Burning baith castle, tower, and town,
  That he met in his way,

  Untill he came unto that town,
  Which some call Billop-Grace;
  There were Auld Maitland's sons, a' three,
  Learning at school, alas!

  The eldest to the youngest said,
  "O see ye what I see?
  "Gin a' be trew yon standard says[92],
  "We're fatherlesse a' three.

  "For Scotland's conquer'd, up and down;
  "Landmen we'll never be:
  "Now, will ye go, my brethren two,
  "And try some jeopardy?"

  Then they hae saddled twa black horse,
  Twa black horse, and a grey;
  And they are on to King Edward's host,
  Before the dawn of day.

  When they arriv'd before the host,
  They hover'd on the lay--
  "Wilt thou lend me our king's standard,
  "To bear a little way?"

  "Where was thou bred? where was thou born?
  "Where, or in what countrie?"
  "In north of England I was born:
  (It needed him to lie.)

  "A knight me gat, a lady bore,
  "I'm a squire of high renowne;
  I well may bear't to any king,
  "That ever yet wore crowne."

  "He ne'er came of an Englishman,
  "Had sic an e'e or bree;
  "But thou art the likest Auld Maitland,
  "That ever I did see.

  "But sick a gloom, on ae brow-head,
  "Grant I ne'er see agane!
  "For mony of our men he slew,
  "And mony put to pain."

  When Maitland heard his father's name,
  An angry man was he!
  Then, lifting up a gilt dagger,
  Hung low down by his knee,

  He stabb'd the knight, the standard bore,
  He stabb'd him cruellie;
  Then caught the standard by the neuk,
  And fast away rode he.

  "Now, is't na time, brothers," he cried,
  "Now, is't na time to flee?"
  "Aye, by my sooth!" they baith replied,
  "We'll bear you company."

  The youngest turn'd him in a path,
  And drew a burnished brand,
  And fifteen of the foremost slew,
  Till back the lave did stand.

  He spurr'd the gray into the path,
  Till baith his sides they bled--
  "Gray! thou maun carry me away,
  "Or my life lies in wad!"

  The captain lookit ower the wa',
  About the break o' day;
  There he beheld the three Scots lads,
  Pursued along the way.

  "Pull up portcullize! down draw-brigg!
  "My nephews are at hand;
  And they sall lodge wi' me to-night,
  "In spite of all England."

  Whene'er they came within the yate,
  They thrust their horse them frae,
  And took three lang spears in their hands,
  Saying, "Here sall come nae mae!".

  And they shot out, and they shot in,
  Till it was fairly day;
  When mony of the Englishmen
  About the draw-brigg lay.

  Then they hae yoked carts and wains,
  To ca' their dead away,
  And shot auld dykes aboon the lave,
  In gutters where they lay.

  The king, at his pavilion door,
  Was heard aloud to say,
  "Last night, three o' the lads o' France
  "My standard stole away.

  "Wi' a fause tale, disguised, they came,
  "And wi' a fauser trayne;
  "And to regain my gaye standard,
  "These men were a' down slayne."

  "It ill befits," the youngest said,
  "A crowned king to lie;
  "But, or that I taste meat and drink,
  "Reproved sall he be."

  He went before King Edward strait,
  And kneel'd low on his knee;
  "I wad hae leave, my lord," he said,
  "To speak a word wi' thee."

  The king he turned him round about,
  And wistna what to say--
  Quo' he, "Man, thou's hae leave to speak,
  Tho' thou should speak a' day."

  "Ye said, that three young lads o' France
  "Your standard stole away,
  "Wi' a fause tale, and fauser trayne,
  "And mony men did slay:

  "But we are nane the lads o' France,
  "Nor e'er pretend to be;
  "We are three lads o' fair Scotland,
  "Auld Maitland's sons are we;

  "Nor is there men, in a' your host,
  "Daur fight us, three to three."
  "Now, by my sooth," young Edward said,
  "Weel fitted ye sall be!

  "Piercy sall wi' the eldest fight,
  "And Ethert Lunn wi' thee;
  "William of Lancaster the third,
  "And bring your fourth to me!"

  "Remember, Piercy, aft the Scot[93]
  "Has cow'rd beneath thy hand:
  "For every drap of Maitland blood,
  "I'll gie a rigg of land."

  He clanked Piercy ower the head,
  A deep wound and a sair,
  Till the best blood o' his bodie
  Cam rinning down his hair.

  "Now, I've slayne ane; slay ye the twa;
  "And that's gude companye;
  "And if the twa suld slay you baith,
  "Ye'se get na help frae me."

  But Ethert Lunn, a baited bear,
  Had many battles seen;
  He set the youngest wonder sair,
  Till the eldest he grew keen--

  "I am nae king, nor nae sic thing:
  "My word it shanna stand!
  "For Ethert sail a buffet bide,
  "Come he beneath my brand."

  "Now I've slayne twa; slay ye the ane;
  "Is na that gude companye?
  "And tho' the ane suld slay ye baith,
  "Ye'se get na help o' me."

  The twa-some they hae slayne the ane;
  They maul'd him cruellie;
  Then hung them over the draw-brigg,
  That all the host might see.

  They rade their horse, they ran their horse,
  Then hovered on the lee;
  "We be three lads o' fair Scotland,
  "That fain wad fighting see."

  This boasting, when young Edward heard.
  An angry man was he!
  "I'll take yon lad, I'll bind yon lad,
  "And bring him bound to thee!"

  "Now, God forbid," King Edward said,
  "That ever thou suld try!
  "Three worthy leaders we hae lost,
  "And thou the fourth wad lie.

  "If thou should'st hang on yon draw-brigg,
  "Blythe wad I never be!"
  But, wi' the poll-axe in his hand,
  Upon the brigg sprang he.

  The first stroke that young Edward gae,
  He struck wi' might and mayn;
  He clove the Maitlan's helmet stout,
  And bit right nigh the brayn.

  When Maitland saw his ain blood fa',
  An angry man was he!
  He let his weapon frae him fa',
  And at his throat did flee.

  And thrice about he did him swing,
  Till on the grund he light,
  Where he has halden young Edward,
  Tho' he was great in might.

  "Now, let him up," King Edward cried,
  "And let him come to me!
  "And, for the deed that thou hast done,
  "Thou shalt hae erldomes three!"

  "Its ne'er be said in France, nor e'er
  In Scotland, when I'm hame,
  That Edward once lay under me,
  And e'er gat up again!"

  He pierced him through and through the heart;
  He maul'd him cruellie;
  Then hung him ower the draw-brigg,
  Beside the other three.

  "Now, take frae me that feather-bed!
  "Mak me a bed o' strae!
  "I wish I had na lived this day,
  "To mak my heart sae wae.

  "If I were ance at London tower,
  "Where I was wont to be,
  "I never mair suld gang frae hame,
  "Till borne on a bier-tree."

[Footnote 90: Waled--Chosen.]

[Footnote 91: North-Berwick, according to some reciters.]

[Footnote 92: Edward had quartered the arms of Scotland with his own.]

[Footnote 93: The two first lines are modern, to supply an imperfect stanza.]

NOTES ON AULD MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Young Edward hight his name.--P, 25. v. 2.

Were it possible to find an authority for calling this personage Edmund, we should be a step
nearer history; for a brother, though not a nephew of Edward I., so named, died in Gascony
during an unsuccessful campaign against the French.--Knighton, Lib. III. cap. 8.

  I wish him dool and pyne.--P. 26. v. 3.

Thus, Spenser, in Mother Huberd's tale--

  Thus is this ape become a shepherd swain,
  And the false fox his dog, God give them pain!

  Who, marching forth with false Dunbar,
  A ready welcome found.--P. 26. v. 4.

These two lines are modern, and inserted to complete the verse. Dunbar, the fortress of Patrick,
Earl of March, was too often opened to the English, by the treachery of that baron, during
the reign of Edward I.

  They laid their sowies to the wall,
  Wi' many a heavy peal.--P. 27. v. 4.

In this and the following verse, the attack and defence of a fortress, during the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries, is described accurately and concisely. The sow was a military engine,
resembling the Roman testudo. It was framed of wood, covered with hides, and mounted on wheels,
so that, being rolled forwards to the foot of the besieged wall, it served as a shed, or cover,
to defend the miners, or those who wrought the battering ram, from the stones and arrows of
the garrison. In the course of the famous defence, made by Black Agnes, Countess of March,
of her husband's castle of Dunbar, Montague, Earl of Salisbury, who commanded the besiegers,
caused one of these engines to be wheeled up to the wall. The countess, who, with her damsels,
kept her station on the battlements, and affected to wipe off with her handkerchief the dust
raised by the stones, hurled from the English machines, awaited the approach of this new engine
of assault. "Beware, Montague," she exclaimed, while the fragment of a rock was discharged
from the wall--"Beware, Montague! for farrow shall thy sow!"[94] Their cover being dashed to
pieces, the assailants, with great loss and difficulty, scrambled back to their trenches. "By
the regard of suche a ladye," would Froissart have said, "and by her comforting, a man ought
to be worth two men, at need." The sow was called by the French Truie.--See Hailes' Annals,
Vol. II. p. 89. Wintown's Cronykil, Book VIII. William of Malmesbury, Lib. IV.

The memory of the sow is preserved in Scotland by two trifling circumstances. The name given
to an oblong hay-stack, is a hay-sow; and this may give us a good idea of the form of the machine.
Children also play at a game with cherry stones, placing a small heap on the ground, which
they term a sowie, endeavouring to hit it, by throwing single cherry-stones, as the sow was
formerly battered from the walls of the besieged fortress. My companions, at the High School
of Edinburgh, will remember what was meant by berrying a sowie. It is strange to find traces
of military antiquities in the occupation of the husbandman, and the sports of children.

[Footnote 94: This sort of bravade seems to have been fashionable in those times: "Et avec
drapeaux, et leurs chaperons, ils torchoient les murs à l'endroit, ou les pierres venoient
frapper."--Notice des Manuscrits de la Bibliotheque Nationale.]

The pitch and tar-barrels of Maitland were intended to consume the formidable machines of the
English. Thus, at a fabulous siege of York, by Sir William Wallace, the same mode of defence
is adopted:

  The Englishmen, that cruel were and kene,
  Keeped their town, and fended there full fast;
  Faggots of fire among the host they cast,
  Up pitch and tar on feil sowis they lent;
  Many were hurt ere they from the walls went;
  Stones on Springalds they did cast out so fast,
  And goads of iron made many grome agast.

Henry the Minstrel's History of Wallace.--B. 8. c. 5.

A more authentic illustration may be derived from Barbour's Account of the Siege of Berwick,
by Edward II., in 1319, when a sow was brought on to the attack by the English, and burned
by the combustibles hurled down upon it, through the device of John Crab, a Flemish engineer,
in the Scottish service.

  And thai, that at the sege lay,
  Or it was passyt the fyft day,
  Had made thaim syndry apparall,
  To gang eft sonys till assaill.
  Off gret gests a sow thai maid,
  That stalwart heildyne aboyne it haid;
  With armyt men inew tharin,
  And instruments for to myne.

  Syndry scaffalds thai maid withall,
  That war wele heyar than the wall,
  And ordanyt als that, be the se,
  The town suld weill assaillyt be.

  Thai within, that saw thaim swa,
  Swa gret apparaill schap to ma,
  Throw Craby's cunsaill, that wes sley,
  A crane thai haiff gert dress up hey,
  Rynnand on quheills, that thai micht bryng
  It quhar that nede war off helping.
  And pyk, and ter, als haiff thai tane;
  And lynt, and herds, and brymstane;
  And dry treyis that wele wald brin,
  And mellyt aythir other in:
  And gret fagalds thairoff thai maid,
  Gyrdyt with irne bands braid.
  The fagalds weill mycht mesuryt be,
  Till a gret towrys quantite.
  The fagalds bryning in a ball,
  With thair cran thoucht till awaill;
  And giff the sow come to the wall,
  To lat it brynand on her fall;
  And with stark chenyeis hald it thar,
  Quhill all war brynt up that thar war.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Upon sic maner gan thai fycht,
  Quhill it wes ner none off the day,
  That thai without, on gret aray,
  Pryssyt thair sow towart the wall;
  And thai within sune gert call
  The engynour, that takyn was,
  And gret manance till hym mais,
  And swour that he suld dey, bot he
  Prowyt on the sow sic sutelté
  That he to fruschyt ilk dele,
  And he, that hath persawyt wele
  That the dede wes wele ner hym till,
  Bot giff he mycht fulfil thair will
  Thoucht that he at hys mycht wald do.

  Bendyt in gret by then wes sche,
  That till the sow wes ewyn set.
  In hy he gert draw the cleket;
  And smertly swappyt owt a stane,
  Ewyn our the sow the stane is gane,
  And behind it a litill way
  It fell: and then they cryt, "Hey!"
  That war in hyr, "furth to the wall,
  For dredles it is ours all!"

  The gynour than deleuerly
  Gert bend the gyn in full gret hy;
  And the stane smertly swappyt out.
  It flaw out quethyr, and with a rout,
  And fell rycht ewyn befor the sow.
  Thair harts than begouth to grow.
  Bot yhet than, with thair mychts all
  Thai pressyt the sow towart the wall;
  And has hyr set tharto gentilly.
  The gynour than gert bend in hy
  The gyne, and wappyt owt the stane,
  That ewyn towart the lyft is gane,
  And with gret wycht syne duschyt doun,
  Rycht be the wall in a randoun;
  And hyt the sow in sic maner,
  That it that wes the maist sowar,
  And starkast for to stynt a strak,
  In sundre with that dusche it brak.
  The men than owt in full gret hy,
  And on the wallis thai gan cry,
  That thair sow wes feryt thar.
  Jhon Crab, that had hys geer all yar
  In hys fagalds has set the fyr,
  And our the wall syne gan thai wyr,
  And brynt the sow till brands bar.

The Bruce, Book XVII

The springalds, used in defence of the castle of Lauder, were balistae, or large cross-bows,
wrought by machinery, and capable of throwing stones, beams, and huge darts. They were numbered
among the heavy artillery of the age; "Than the kynge made all his navy to draw along, by the
cost of the Downes, every ship well garnished with bombardes, crosbowes, archers, springalls,
and other artillarie."--Froissart.

Goads, or sharpened bars of iron, were an obvious and formidable missile weapon. Thus, at the
assault of Rochemiglion "They within cast out great barres of iron, and pots with lyme, wherewith
they hurt divers Englishmen, such as adventured themselves too far."--Froissart, Vol. I. cap. 108.

From what has been noticed, the attack and defence of Lauder castle will be found strictly
conformable to the manners of the age; a circumstance of great importance, in judging of the
antiquity of the ballad. There is no mention of guns, though these became so common in the
latter part of the reign of Edward III., that, at the siege of St. Maloes, "the English had
well a four hondred gonnes, who shot day and night into the fortresse, and agaynst it."--Froissart,
Vol. I. cap. 336. Barbour informs us, that guns, or "crakis of wer," as he calls them, and
crests for helmets, were first seen by the Scottish, in their skirmishes with Edward the Third's
host, in Northumberland A.D. 1327.

  Which some call Billop-Grace.--P. 28. v. 5.

If this be a Flemish, or Scottish, corruption for Ville de Grace, in Normandy, that town was
never besieged by Edward I., whose wars in France were confined to the province of Gascony.
The rapid change of scene, from Scotland to France, excites a suspicion, that some verses may
have been lost in this place. The retreat of the English host, however, may remind us of a
passage, in Wintown, when, after mentioning that the Earl of Salisbury raised the siege of
Dunbar, to join King Edward in France, he observes,

  "It was to Scotland a gud chance,
  "That thai made thaim to werray in France;
  "For had thai halyly thaim tane
  "For to werray in Scotland allane.

  Eftyr the gret mischeffis twa,
  Duplyn and Hallydowne war tha,
  Thai suld have skaithit it to gretly.
  Bot fortowne thoucht scho fald fekilly
  Will noucht at anis myscheffis fall;
  Thare-fore scho set thare hartis all,
  To werray Fraunce richit to be,
  That Scottis live in grettar lé.

Cronykil, B. VIII. cap. 34.

  Now, will ye go, my brethren two,
  And try some jeopardie?--P. 29. v. 2.

The romantic custom of atchieving, or attempting, some desperate and perilous adventure, without
either necessity or cause, was a peculiar, and perhaps the most prominent, feature of chivalry.
It was not merely the duty, but the pride and delight, of a true knight, to perform such exploits,
as no one but a madman would have undertaken. I think it is in the old French romance of Erec
and Eneide, that an adventure, the access to which lay through an avenue of stakes, garnished
with the bloody heads of the knights who had attempted and failed to atchieve it, is called
by the inviting title of La joie de la Cour. To be first in advancing, or last in retreating;
to strike upon the gate of a certain fortress of the enemy; to fight blindfold, or with one
arm tied up; to carry off a banner, or to defend one; were often the subjects of a particular
vow, among the sons of chivalry. Until some distinguishing exploit of this nature, a young
knight was not said to have won his spurs; and, upon some occasions, he was obliged to bear,
as a mark of thraldom, a chain upon his arm, which was removed, with great ceremony, when his
merit became conspicuous. These chains are noticed in the romance of Jehan de Saintré. In the
language of German chivalry, they were called Ketten des Gelubdes (fetters of duty). Lord Herbert
of Cherbury informs us, that the knights of the Bath were obliged to wear certain strings,
of silk and gold, upon their left arm, until they had atchieved some noble deed of arms. When
Edward III. commenced his French wars, many of the young bachelors of England bound up one
of their eyes with a silk ribband, and swore, before the peacock and the ladies, that they
would not see with both eyes until they had accomplished certain deeds of arms in France.--Froissart,
cap. 28.

A remarkable instance of this chivalrous frenzy occurred during the expedition of Sir Robert
Knowles, who, in 1370, marched through France, and laid waste the country, up to the very gates
of Paris. "There was a knighte, in their companye, had made a vowe, the day before, that he
wolde ryde to the walles or gates of Parys, and stryke at the barryers with his speare. And,
for the fournyshing of his vowe, he departed fro his companye, his spear in his fyst, his shelde
about his neck, armed at all pecesse, on a good horsse, his squyer on another, behinde him,
with his bassenet. And whan he approached neare to Parys, he toke and dyde on his helme, and
left his squyer behind hym, and dashed his spurres to his horsse, and came gallopynge to the
barryers, the whiche as then were opyn; and the lordes, that were there, had wened he wolde
have entred into the towne; but that was not his mynde; for, when he hadde stryken at the barryers,
as he had before avowed, he towrned his reyne, and drue back agayne, and departed. Than the
knightes of France, that sawe hym depart, sayd to hym, 'Go your waye; you have ryghte well
acquitted yourself.' I can nat tell you what was thys knyghtes name, nor of what contre; but
the blazure of his armes was, goules, two fusses sable, a border sable. Howbeit, in the subbarbes,
he had a sore encontre; for, as he passed on the pavement, he founde before hym a bocher, a
bigge man, who had well sene this knighte pass by. And he helde in his handes a sharpe hevy
axe, with a longe poynt; and, as the knyght returned agayne, and toke no hede, this bocher
came on his side, and gave the knyghte suche a stroke, betwene the neck and the shulders, that
he reversed forwarde heedlynge, to the neck of his horsse, and yet he recovered agayne. And
than the bocher strake hym agayne, so that the axe entered into his body, so that, for payne,
the knyghte fell to the erthe, and his horsse ran away, and came to the squyer, who abode for
his mayster at the stretes ende. And so, the squyer toke the horsse, and had gret marveyle
what was become of his mayster; for he had well sene him ryde to the barryers, and stryke therat
with his glayve, and retourne agayne. Thanne he rode a lytell forthe, thyderwarde, and anone
he sawe where his master layn upon the erthe, bytwene foure men, layenge on him strokes, as
they wolde have stryken on a stethey (anvil); and than the squyer was so affreyed, that he
durst go no farther; for he sawe well he could nat helpe his mayster. Therefore he retourned
as fast as he myght: so there the sayd knyghte was slayne. And the knyghtes, that were at the
gate, caused hym to be buried in holy ground."--Froissart, ch. 281.

A similar instance of a military jeopardy occurs in the same author, ch. 364. It happened before
the gates of Troyes. "There was an Englyshe squyre, borne in the bishopryke of Lincolne, an
expert man of armes; I can nat say whyder he could se or nat; but he spurred his horse, his
speare in his hande, and his targe about his necke; his horse came rushyng downe the waye,
and lept clene over the barres of the baryers, and so galoped to the gate, where as the duke
of Burgoyne and the other lords of France were, who reputed that dede for a great enterprise.
The squyer thoughte to have returned, but he could nat; for his horse was stryken with speares,
and beaten downe, and the squyer slayn; wherewith the Duke of Burgoyne was right sore displeased."

  Wilt thou lend me our king's standard,
  To bear a little way?--P. 29. v. 4.

In all ages, and in almost all countries, the military standards have been objects of respect
to the soldiery, whose duty it is to range beneath them, and, if necessary, to die in their
defence. In the ages of chivalry, these ensigns were distinguished by their shape, and by the
various names of banners, pennons, penoncelles, &c., according to the number of men, who were
to fight under them. They were displayed, on the day of battle, with singular solemnity, and
consigned to the charge only of such as were thought willing and able to defend them to the
uttermost. When the army of Edward, the Black Prince, was drawn up against that of Henry the
Bastard, king of Castile, "Than Sir Johan Chandos brought his baner, rolled up togyder, to
the prince, and said, 'Sir, behold, here is my baner. I requyre you display it abrode, and
give me leave, this daye, to raise it; for, sir, I thanke God and you, I have land and heritage
suffyciente to maynteyne it withal.' Than the prince, and King Dampeter (Don Pedro), toke the
baner betwene their handes, and spred it abrode, the which was of sylver, a sharp pyle gaules,
and delyvered it to hym, and said, 'Sir Johan, behold here youre baner; God sende you joye
and honour thereof!' Than Sir Johan Chandos bare his baner to his owne company, and sayde,
'Sirs, beholde here my baner, and yours; kepe it as your owne.' And they toke it, and were
right joyful therof, and sayd, that, by the pleasure of God, and Saint George, they wold kepe
and defend it to the best of their powers. And so the baner abode in the handes of a good Englishe
squyer, called William Alery, who bare it that day, and acquaytted himself right nobly."--Froissart,
Vol. I. ch. 237. The loss of a banner was not only great dishonour, but an infinite disadvantage.
At the battle of Cocherel, in Normandy, the flower of the combatants, on each side, were engaged
in the attack and defence of the banner of the captall of Buche, the English leader. It was
planted amid a bush of thorns, and guarded by sixty men at arms, who defended it gallantly.
"There were many rescues, and many a one hurt and cast to the earth, and many feats of armes
done, and many gret strokes given, with good axes of steel, that it was wonder to behold."
The battle did not cease until the captall's standard was taken and torn to pieces.

We learn, from the following passage in Stowe's Chronicle, that the standard of Edward I. was
a golden dragon. "The king entred Wales with an army, appointing the footmen to occupie the
enemies in fight, whiles his horsemen, in a wing, set on the rere battell: himselfe, with a
power, kept his place, where he pight his golden dragon, unto whiche, as to a castle, the wounded
and wearied might repair."

Stratagems, such as that of Maitland, were frequently practised with success, in consequence
of the complete armour worn by the knights of the middle ages. In 1359, Edward III. entered
France, to improve the success of the battle of Poictiers. Two French knights, Sir Galahaut
of Rybamont, and Sir Roger of Cologne, rode forth, with their followers, to survey the English
host, and, in short, to seek adventures. It chanced that they met a foraging party of Germans,
retained in King Edward's service, under the command of Reynold of Boulant, a knight of that
nation. By the counsel of a squire of his retinue, Sir Galahaut joined company with the German
knight, under the assumed character of Bartholomew de Bonne, Reynold's countryman, and fellow
soldier in the English service. The French knights "were a 70 men of armes, and Sir Renolde
had not past a 30; and, whan Sir Renolde saw theym, he displayed his baner befor hym, and came
softely rydynge towarde theym, wenyng to hym that they had been Englyshemen. Whan he approched,
he lyft up hys vyser, saluted Sir Galahaut, in the name of Sir Bartylmewe de Bonnes. Sir Galahaut
helde hymselfe styll secrete, and answered but fayntly, and sayd, 'let us ryde forth;' and
so rode on, and hys men, on the one syde, and the Almaygnes on the other. Whan Sir Renolde
of Boulant sawe theyr maner, and howe Sir Galahaut rode sometyme by hym, and spake no word,
than he began to suspecte. And he had not so ryden, the space of a quarter of an hour, but
he stode styll, under his baner, among hys men, and sayd, 'Sir, I have dout what knyght ye
be. I thynke ye be nat Sir Bartylmewe, for I knowe hym well; and I see well that yt ys nat
you. I woll ye telle me your name, or I ryde any farter in your company.' Therwith Sir Galahaut
lyft up hys vyser, and rode towardes the knyght to have taken hym by the raygne of hys brydell,
and cryed, 'Our Ladye of Rybamont!' than Sir Roger of Coloyne sayd, 'Coloyne to the rescue!'[95]
Whan Sir Renolde of Boulant sawe what case he was in, he was nat gretly afrayed, but drewe
out his sworde; and, as Sir Galahaut wolde have taken hym by the brydell, Sir Renolde put his
sworde clene through hym, and drue agayne hys sworde out of hym, and toke his horse, with the
spurres, and left Sir Galahaut sore hurt. And, whan Sir Galahautes men sawe theyr master in
that case, they were sore dyspleased, and set on Sir Renolde's men; there were many cast to
the yerth, but as sone as Sir Renolde had gyven Sir Galahaut that stroke, he strak hys horse
with the spurres, and toke the feldes. Than certayne of Galahaut's squyers chasyd hym, and,
whan he sawe that they folowed hym so nere, that he muste other tourne agayne, or els be shamed,
lyke a hardy knyght he tourned, and abode the foremost, and gave hym such a stroke, that he
had no more lyste to folwe him. And thus, as he rode on, he served three of theym, that folowed
hym, and wounded theym sore: if a goode axe had been in hys hand, at every stroke he had slayne
a man. He dyd so muche, that he was out of danger of the Frenchmen, and saved hymselfe withoute
any hurte; the whyche hys enemyes reputed for a grete prowess, and so dyd all other that harde
thereof; but hys men were nere slayne or taken, but few that were saved. And Sir Galahaut was
caryed from thence sore hurt to Perone; of that hurt he was never after perfectly hole; for
he was a knyght of suche courage, that, for all his hurte, he wold not spare hymselfe; wherefore
he lyved not long after."--Froissart, Vol. I. Chap. 207.

[Footnote 95: The war-cries of their family.]

  The youngest turn'd him in a path,
  And drew a burnished brand, &c.--P. 31. v. 2.

Thus, Sir Walter Mauny, retreating into the fortress of Hanyboute, after a successful sally,
was pursued by the besiegers, who ranne after them, lyke madde men; than Sir Gualtier saide,
"Let me never be beloved wyth my lady, without I have a course wyth one of these folowers!"
and turning, with his lance in the rest, he overthrew several of his pursuers, before he condescended
to continue his retreat.

  Whene'er they came within the yate,
  They thrust their horse them frae, &c.--P. 32. v. 1.

"The Lord of Hangest (pursued by the English) came so to the barryers (of Vandonne) that were
open, as his happe was, and so entred in therat, and than toke his speare, and turned him to
defence, right valiantly."--Froissart, Vol. I. Chap. 367.

  They rade their horse, they ran their horse,
  Then hovered on the lee, &c.--P. 36. v. 1.

The sieges, during the middle ages, frequently afforded opportunity for single combat, of which
the scene was usually the draw-bridge, or barriers, of the town. The former, as the more desperate
place of battle, was frequently chosen by knights, who chose to break a lance for honour, and
their ladies' love. In 1387, Sir William Douglas, lord of Nithisdale, upon the draw-bridge
of the town of Carlisle, consisting of two beams, hardly two feet in breadth, encountered and
slew, first, a single champion of England, and afterwards two, who attacked him together.--Forduni
Scotichronicon, Lib. XIV. cap. 51.

  He brynt the surburbys of Carlele,
  And at the bareris he faucht sa wele,
  That on thare bryg he slw a man,
  The wychtast that in the town wes than:
  Quhare, on a plank of twa feet brade,
  He stude, and twa gude payment made,
  That he feld twa stout fechteris,
  And but skath went till his feres.

Wintown's Cronykil, Book IX. Chap. 8.

These combats at the barriers, or palisades, which formed the outer fortification of a town,
were so frequent, that the mode of attack and defence was early taught to the future knight,
and continued long to be practised in the games of chivalry. The custom, therefore, of defying
the inhabitants of a besieged town to this sort of contest, was highly fashionable in the middle
ages; and an army could hardly appear before a place, without giving rise to a variety of combats
at the barriers, which were, in general, conducted without any unfair advantage being taken
on either part.

The following striking example of this romantic custom occurs in Froissart. During the French
wars of Edward the Black Prince, and in the year 1370, a body of English, and of adventurers
retained in his service, approached the city of Noyon, then occupied by a French garrison,
and arrayed themselves, with displayed banners, before the town, defying the defenders to battle.
"There was a Scottysh knyghte[96] dyde there a goodly feate of armes, for he departed fro his
companye, hys speare in hys hand, and mounted on a good horse, hys page behynde hyme, and so
came before the barryers. Thys knyghte was called Sir Johan Assueton,[97] a hardy man and a
couragyous. Whan he was before the barryers of Noyon, he lyghted a-fote, and sayd to hys page,
'Holde, kepe my horse, and departe nat hens;' and so wente to the barryers. And wythyn the
barryers, there were good knyghtes; as, Sir John of Roy, Sir Lancelat of Loutys, and a x or
xii other, who had grete marveyle what thys sayde knyghte wolde do. Than he sayde to them,
'Sirs, I am come hyder to se you. I se well, ye wyll nat issue out of your barryers; therefore
I will entre, and I can, and wyll prove my knyghthode agaynst yours; wyn me and ye can.' And
therewyth he layde on, round about hym, and they at hym. And thus, he alone fought agaynst
them, more than an houre; and dyd hurte two or three of them; so that they of the towne, on
the walles and garrettes, stode still, and behelde them, and had great pleasure to regarde
his valyauntness, and dyd him no hurte; the whiche they myght have done, if they hadde list
to have shotte, or cast stones at hym. And also the French knyghtes charged them to let hym
and them alone togyder. So long they foughte, that, at last, his page came near to the barryers,
and spake in his langage, and sayd, 'Sir, come awaye; it is time for you to departe, for your
cumpanye is departyng hens.' The knyghte harde hym well, and than gave a two or three strokes
about him, and so, armed as he was, he lepte out of the barryers, and lepte upon his horse,
without any hurte, behynde his page; and sayd to the Frenchemen, 'Adue, sirs! I thank you;'
and so rode forthe to his owne company. The whiche dede was moche praysed of many folkes."--Froissart,
cap. 278.

[Footnote 96: By the terms of the peace betwixt England and Scotland, the Scottish were left
at liberty to take service either with France or England, at their pleasure. Sir Robert Knolles,
therefore, who commanded the expedition, referred to in the text, had under his command a hundred
Scottish spears.]

[Footnote 97: Assueton is a corruption for Swinton. Sir John Swinton, of Swinton, was a Scottish
champion, noted for his courage and gigantic stature.]

The barriers, so often alluded to, are described, by the same admirable historian, to be grated
pallisades, the grates being about half a foot wide. In a skirmish before Honycourt, Sir Henry
of Flanders ventured to thrust his sword so far through one of those spaces, that a sturdy
abbot, who was within, seized his sword-arm, and drew it through the harriers, up to the shoulder.
In this aukward situation he remained for some time, being unwilling to dishonour himself by
quitting his weapon. He was at length rescued, but lost his sword; which Froissart afterwards
saw preserved, as a relique, in the monastery of Honycourt.--Vol. I. chap. 39. For instances
of single combats, at the barriers, see the same author, passim.

  And if the twa suld slay ye baith,
  Ye'se get na help frae me.--P. 34. v. 5.

According to the laws of chivalry, laws, which were also for a long time observed in duels,
when two or more persons were engaged on each side, he, who first conquered his immediate antagonist,
was at liberty, if he pleased, to come to the assistance of his companions. The play of the
"Little French Lawyer" turns entirely upon this circumstance; and it may be remarked throughout
the poems of Boiardo and Ariosto; particularly in the combat of three Christian and three Pagan
champions, in the 42d canto of Orlando Furioso. But doubtless a gallant knight was often unwilling,
like young Maitland, to avail himself of this advantage. Something of this kind seems to have
happened in the celebrated combat, fought in the presence of James II. at Stirling, in 1449,
between three French, or Flemish, warriors, and three noble Scottishmen, two of whom were of
the house of Douglas. The reader will find a literal translation of Olivier de la Marche's
account of this celebrated tourney, in Pinkerton's History, Vol. I. p. 428.

Maitland's apology for retracting his promise to stand neuter, is as curious as his doing so
is natural. The unfortunate John of France was wont to say, that, if truth and faith were banished
from all the rest of the universe, they should still reside in the breast and the mouth of kings.

  They maul'd him cruellie.--P. 35. v. 5.

This has a vulgar sound, but is actually a phrase of romance. Tant frappent et maillent lex
deux vassaux l'un sur l'autre, que leurs heaumes, et leurs hauberts, sont tous cassez et rompus.--La
fleur des Battailes.

  But, wi' the poll-axe in his hand,
  Upon the brigg sprang he.--P. 36. v. 4.

The battle-axe, of which there are many kinds, was a knightly weapon, much used in the middle
ages, as well in single combat as in battle. "And also there was a younge bachelor, called
Bertrande of Glesguyne, who duryng the seige, fought wyth an Englyshman, called Sir Nycholas
Dagerne; and that batayle was takene thre courses wyth a speare, thre strokes wyth an axe,
and thre wyth a dagger. And eche of these knyghtes bare themselves so valyantly, that they
departed fro the felde wythout any damage, and they were well regarded, bothe of theyme wythyn,
and they wythout." This happened at the siege of Rennes, by the Duke of Lancaster, in 1357.--Froissart,
Vol. I. c. 175. With the same weapon Godfrey of Harcourt long defended himself, when surprised
and defeated by the French. "And Sir Godfraye's men kepte no goode array, nor dyd nat as they
had promysed; moost part of theyme fledde: whan Sir Godfraye sawe that, he sayde to hymselfe,
howe he had rather there be slayne than be taken by the Frenchmen; there he toke hys axe in
hys handes, and set fast the one legge before the other, to stonde the more surely; for hys
one legge was a lytell crooked, but he was strong in the armes. Ther he fought valyantly and
long: none durste well abyde hys strokes; than two Frenchmen mounted on theyr horses, and ranne
both with their speares at ones at hym, and so bare hym to the yerth: than other, that were
a-fote, came wyth theyr swerdes, and strake hym into the body, under his barneys, so that ther
he was slayne."--Ibid, chap. 172. The historian throws Sir Godfrey into a striking attitude
of desperation.

  When Maitland saw his ain blude fa',
  An angry man was he,--P. 37, v. 1.

There is a saying, that a Scottishman fights best after seeing his own blood. Camerarius has
contrived to hitch this foolish proverb into a national compliment; for he quotes it as an
instance of the persevering gallantry of his countrymen. "Si in pugna proprium effundi sanguinem
vidissent, non statim prostrato animo concedebant, sed irato potius in hostes velut furentes
omnibus viribus incurrebant."

  That Edward once lay under me,
  And e'er gat up again.--P. 37. v. 4.

Some reciters repeat it thus:

  "That Englishman lay under me,"

which is in the true spirit of Blind Harry, who makes Wallace say,

  "I like better to see the southeron die,
  "Than gold or land, that they can gie to me."

In slaying Edward, Maitland acts pitilessly, but not contrary to the laws of arms, which did
not enjoin a knight to shew mercy to his antagonist, until he yielded him, "rescue or no rescue."
Thus, the seigneur de Languerant came before the walls of an English garrison, in Gascony,
and defied any of the defenders to run a course with a spear: his challenge being accepted
by Bertrand Courant, the governor of the place, they couched their spears, like good knights,
and dashed on their horses. Their spears were broke to pieces, and Languerant was overthrown,
and lost his helmet among the horses' feet. His attendants were coming up; but Bernard drew
his dagger, and said, "Sir, yield ye my prisoner, rescue or no rescue; else ye are but dead."
The dismounted champion spoke not a word; on which, Bertrand, entering into fervent ire, dashed
his dagger into his skull. Besides, the battle was not always finished by one warrior obtaining
this advantage over the other. In the battle of Nejara, the famous Sir John Chandos was overthrown,
and held down, by a gigantic Spanish cavalier, named Martino Fernandez. "Then Sir Johan Chandos
remembred of a knyfe, that he had in his bosome, and drew it out, and struck this Martyne so
in the backe, and in the sydes, that he wounded him to dethe, as he laye upon hym." The dagger,
which the knights employed in these close and desperate struggles, was called the poniard of mercy.

BATTLE OF OTTERBOURNE.

THE SCOTTISH EDITION.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following edition of the Battle of Otterbourne, being essentially different from that which
is published in the Reliques of Ancient Poetry, Vol. I. and being obviously of Scottish composition,
claims a place in the present collection. The particulars of that noted action are related
by Froissard, with the highest encomium upon the valour of the combatants on each side. James,
Earl of Douglas, with his brother, the Earl of Murray, in 1387 invaded Northumberland, at the
head of 3000 men; while the Earls of Fife and Strathern, sons to the king of Scotland, ravaged
the western borders of England, with a still more numerous army. Douglas penetrated as far
as Newcastle, where the renowned Hotspur lay in garrison. In a skirmish before the walls, Percy's
lance, with the pennon, or guidon, attached to it, was taken by Douglas, as most authors affirm,
in a personal encounter betwixt the two heroes. The earl shook the pennon aloft, and swore
he would carry it as his spoil into Scotland, and plant it upon his castle of Dalkeith. "That,"
answered Percy, "shalt thou never!"--Accordingly, having collected the forces of the marches,
to a number equal, or (according to the Scottish historians) much superior, to the army of
Douglas, Hotspur made a night attack upon the Scottish camp, at Otterbourne, about thirty-two
miles from Newcastle. An action took place, fought, by moon-light, with uncommon gallantry
and desperation. At length, Douglas, armed with an iron mace, which few but he could wield,
rushed into the thickest of the English battalions, followed only by his chaplain, and two
squires of his body.[98] Before his followers could come up, their brave leader was stretched
on the ground, with three mortal wounds: his squires lay dead by his side; the priest alone,
armed with a lance, was protecting his master from farther injury. "I die like my forefathers,"
said the expiring hero, "in a field of battle, and not on a bed of sickness. Conceal my death,
defend my standard,[99] and avenge my fall! It is an old prophecy, that a dead man shall gain
a field,[100] and I hope it will be accomplished this night."--Godscroft.--With these words
he expired; and the fight was renewed with double obstinacy around his body. When morning appeared,
however, victory began to incline to the Scottish side. Ralph Percy, brother to Hotspur, was
made prisoner by the earl Marischal, and, shortly after, Harry Percy[101] himself was taken
by Lord Montgomery. The number of captives, according to Wyntoun, nearly equalled that of the
victors. Upon this the English retired, and left the Scots masters of the dear-bought honours
of the field. But the bishop of Durham approaching, at the head of a body of fresh forces,
not only checked the pursuit of the victors, but made prisoners some of the stragglers, who
had urged the chase too far. The battle was not, however, renewed, as the bishop of Durham
did not venture to attempt the rescue of Percy. The field was fought 15th August, 1388.--Fordun,
Froissard, Hollinshed, Godscroft.

[Footnote 98: Their names were Robert Hart and Simon Glendinning. The chaplain was Richard
Lundie, afterwards archdean of Aberdeen.--Godscroft. Hart, according to Wintown, was a knight.
That historian says, no one knew how Douglas fell.]

[Footnote 99: The banner of Douglas, upon this memorable occasion, was borne by his natural
son, Archibald Douglas, ancestor of the family of Cavers, hereditary sheriffs of Teviotdale,
amongst whose archives this glorious relique is still preserved. The earl, at his onset, is
said to have charged his son to defend it to the last drop of his blood.]

[Footnote 100: This prophecy occurs in the ballad as an ominous dream.]

[Footnote 101: Hotspur, for his ransom, built the castle of Penoon, in Ayrshire, belonging
to the family of Montgomery, now earls of Eglintoun.]

The ground, on which this memorable engagement took place, is now the property of John Davidson,
Esq. of Newcastle, and still retains the name of Battle Cross. A cross, erroneously termed
Percy's Cross, has been erected upon the spot where the gallant Earl of Douglas is supposed
to have fallen. These particulars were communicated to the editor, in the most obliging manner,
by the present proprietor of Otterbourne.

The ballad, published in the Reliques, is avowedly an English production; and the author, with
a natural partiality, leans to the side of his countrymen; yet, that ballad, or some one similar,
modified probably by national prejudice, must have been current in Scotland during the reign
of James VI.: for Godscroft, in treating of this battle, mentions its having been the subject
of popular song, and proceeds thus: But that, which is commonly sung of the Hunting of Chiviot,
seemeth indeed poetical, and a mere fiction, perhaps to stir up virtue; yet a fiction whereof
there is no mention, either in the Scottish or English Chronicle. Neither are the songs, that
are made of them, both one; for the Scots song made of Otterbourne, telleth the time, about
Lammas; and also the occasion, to take preys out of England; also the dividing the armies betwixt
the earls of Fife and Douglas, and their several journeys, almost as in the authentic history.
It beginneth thus;

  "It fell about the Lammas tide,
  "When yeomen win their hay,
  "The doughty Douglas 'gan to ride,
  "In England to take a prey."--

GODSCROFT, ed. Edin. 1743. Vol. I. p. 195.

I cannot venture to assert, that the stanzas, here published, belong to the ballad alluded
to by Godscroft; but they come much nearer to his description than the copy published in the
first edition, which represented Douglas as falling by the poignard of a faithless page. Yet
we learn, from the same author, that the story of the assassination was not without foundation
in tradition.--"There are that say, that he (Douglas) was not slain by the enemy, but by one
of his own men, a groom of his chamber, whom he had struck the day before with a truncheon,
in ordering of the battle, because he saw him make somewhat slowly to. And they name this man
John Bickerton of Luffness, who left a part of his armour behind, unfastened, and when he was
in the greatest conflict, this servant of his came behind his back, and slew him thereat."--Godscroft,
ut supra.--"But this narration," adds the historian, "is not so probable."[102] Indeed, it
seems to have no foundation, but the common desire of assigning some remote and extraordinary
cause for the death of a great man. The following ballad is also inaccurate in many other particulars,
and is much shorter, and more indistinct, than that printed in the Reliques, although many
verses are almost the same. Hotspur, for instance, is called Earl Percy, a title he never enjoyed;
neither was Douglas buried on the field of battle, but in Melrose Abbey, where his tomb is
still shown.

[Footnote 102: Wintown assigns another cause for Douglas being carelessly armed.

  "The erle Jamys was sa besy,
  For til ordane his cumpany;
  And on his Fays for to pas,
  That reckles he of his armyng was;
  The Erle of Mwrrawys Bassenet,
  Thai sayd, at that tyme was feryhete."

Book VIII. Chap 7.

The circumstance of Douglas' omitting to put on his helmet, occurs in the ballad.]

This song was first published from Mr. Herd's Collection of Scottish Songs and Ballads, Edin.
1774: 2 vols. octavo; but two recited copies have fortunately been obtained from the recitation
of old persons residing at the head of Ettrick Forest, by which the story is brought out, and
completed, in a manner much more correspondent to the true history.

I cannot dismiss the subject of the Battle of Otterbourne, without stating (with all the deference
due to the father of this species of literature) a doubt, which occurs to me, as to the account
given of "Sir John of Agurstone," one of the Scottish warriors, in the learned and excellent
notes subjoined to the ballad, in the Reliques of Ancient Poetry. This personage is there supposed
to have been one of the Haggerstons of Haggerston, a Northumbrian family, who, according to
the fate of war, were sometimes subjects of Scotland. I cannot, however, think, that at this
period, while the English were in possession both of Berwick and Roxburgh, with the intermediate
fortresses of Wark, Cornwall, and Norham, the Scots possessed any part of Northumberland, much
less a manor which lay within that strong chain of castles. I should presume the person alluded
to rather to have been one of the Rutherfords, barons of Edgerstane, or Adgerston, a warlike
family, which has long flourished on the Scottish borders, and who were, at this very period,
retainers of the house of Douglas. The same notes contain an account of the other Scottish
warriors of distinction, who were present at the battle. These were, the earls of Monteith,
Buchan, and Huntley; the barons of Maxwell and Johnston; Swinton of that ilk, an ancient family
which, about that period, produced several distinguished warriors; Sir David (or rather, as
the learned editor well remarks, Sir Walter) Scott of Buccleuch, Stewart of Garlies, and Murray
of Cockpool.

  Regibus et legibus Scotici constantes,
  Vos clypeis et gladiis pro patria pugnantes,
  Vestra est victoria, vestra est et gloria,
  In cantu et historia, perpes est memoria!

BATTLE OF OTTERBOURNE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It fell about the Lammas tide,
  When the muir-men win their hay,
  The doughty earl of Douglas rode
  Into England, to catch a prey.

  He chose the Gordons and the Graemes,
  With them the Lindesays, light and gay;
  But the Jardines wald not with him ride,
  And they rue it to this day.

  And he has burn'd the dales of Tyne,
  And part of Bambrough shire;
  And three good towers on Roxburgh fells,
  He left them all on fire.

  And he march'd up to Newcastle,
  And rode it round about;
  "O wha's the lord of this castle,
  "Or wha's the lady o't?"

  But up spake proud Lord Percy, then,
  And O but he spake hie!
  "I am the lord of this castle,
  "My wife's the lady gay."

  "If thou'rt the lord of this castle,
  "Sae weel it pleases me!
  "For, ere I cross the border fells,
  "The tane of us shall die."

  He took a lang spear in his hand.
  Shod with the metal free,
  And for to meet the Douglas there,
  He rode right furiouslie.

  But O how pale his lady look'd,
  Frae aff the castle wa',
  When down, before the Scottish spear,
  She saw proud Percy fa',

  "Had we twa been upon the green,
  "And never an eye to see,
  I wad hae had you, flesh and fell[103];
  "But your sword sall gae wi' me."

  "But gae ye up to Otterbourne,
  "And wait there dayis three;
  And, if I come not ere three dayis end,
  "A fause knight ca' ye me."

  "The Otterbourne's a bonnie burn;
  "'Tis pleasant there to be;
  "But there is nought at Otterbourne,
  "To feed my men and me.

  "The deer rins wild on hill and dale,
  "The birds fly wild from tree to tree;
  "But there is neither bread nor kale,
  "To fend[104] my men and me.

  "Yet I will stay at Otterbourne,
  "Where you shall welcome be;
  "And, if ye come not at three dayis end,
  "A fause lord I'll ca' thee."

  "Thither will I come," proud Percy said,
  "By the might of Our Ladye!"--
  "There will I bide thee," said the Douglas,
  "My trowth I plight to thee."

  They lighted high on Otterbourne,
  Upon the bent sae brown;
  They lighted high on Otterbourne,
  And threw their pallions down.

  And he that had a bonnie boy,
  Sent out his horse to grass;
  And he that had not a bonnie boy,
  His ain servant he was.

  But up then spake a little page,
  Before the peep of dawn--
  "O waken ye, waken ye, my good lord,
  "For Percy's hard at hand."

  "Ye lie, ye lie, ye liar loud!
  "Sae loud I hear ye lie:
  For Percy had not men yestreen,
  "To dight my men and me."

  "But I hae dream'd a dreary dream,
  "Beyond the Isle of Sky;
  "I saw a dead man win a fight,
  "And I think that man was I."

  He belted on his good braid sword,
  And to the field he ran;
  But he forgot the helmet good,
  That should have kept his brain.

  When Percy wi' the Douglas met,
  I wat he was fu' fain!
  They swakked their swords, till sair they swat,
  And the blood ran down like rain.

  But Percy, with his good broad sword,
  That could so sharply wound,
  Has wounded Douglas on the brow,
  Till he fell to the ground.

  Then he call'd on his little foot-page.
  And said--"Run speedilie,
  "And fetch my ain dear sister's son,
  "Sir Hugh Montgomery."

  "My nephew good," the Douglas said,
  "What recks the death of ane!
  "Last night I dream'd a dreary dream,
  "And I ken the day's thy ain,

  "My wound is deep; I fain would sleep;
  "Take thou the vanguard of the three,
  "And hide me by the braken bush,
  "That grows on yonder lilye lee,

  "O bury me by the braken bush,
  "Beneath the blooming briar;
  "Let never living mortal ken,
  "That ere a kindly Scot lies here."

  He lifted up that noble lord,
  Wi' the saut tear in his e'e;
  He hid him in the braken bush,
  That his merrie men might not see.

  The moon was clear, the day drew near,
  The spears in flinders flew,
  But mony a gallant Englishman,
  Ere day the Scotsmen slew.

  The Gordons good, in English blood,
  They steep'd their hose and shoon;
  The Lindsays flew like fire about,
  Till all the fray was done.

  The Percy and Montgomery met,
  That either of other were fain;
  They swapped swords, and they twa swat,
  And aye the blude ran down between.

  "Yield thee, O yield thee, Percy!" he said,
  "Or else I vow I'll lay thee low!"
  "Whom to shall I yield," said Earl Percy,
  "Now that I see it must be so?"

  "Thou shalt not yield to lord nor loun,
  "Nor yet shalt thou yield to me;
  "But yield thee to the braken bush,[105]
  "That grows upon yon lilye lee!"

  "I will not yield to a braken bush,
  "Nor yet will I yield to a briar;
  But I would yield to Earl Douglas,
  "Or Sir Hugh the Montgomery, if he were here."

  As soon as he knew it was Montgomery,
  He stuck his sword's point in the gronde;
  And the Montgomery was a courteous knight,
  And quickly took him by the honde.

  This deed was done at Otterbourne,
  About the breaking of the day;
  Earl Douglas was buried at the braken bush,
  And the Percy led captive away.

[Footnote 103: Fell.--Hide. Douglas insinuates, that Percy was rescued by his soldiers.]

[Footnote 104: Fend.--Support.]

[Footnote 105: Braken.--Fern.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON THE BATTLE OF OTTERBOURNE.

He chose the Gordons and the Graemes.--P. 64. v. 2.

The illustrious family of Gordon was originally settled upon the lands of Gordon and Huntly,
in the shire of Berwick, and are, therefore, of border extraction. The steps, by which they
removed from thence to the shires of Aberdeen and Inverness, are worthy notice. In 1300, Adam
de Gordon was warden of the marches.--Rymer, Vol. II. p. 870. He obtained, from Robert the
Bruce, a grant of the forfeited estate of David de Strathbolgie, Earl of Athol; but no possession
followed, the earl having returned to his allegiance.--John de Gordon, his great-grandson,
obtained, from Robert II., a new charter of the lands of Strathbolgie, which had been once
more and finally forfeited, by David, Earl of Athol, slaine in the battle of Kilblene. This
grant is dated 13th July, 1376. John de Gordon who was destined to transfer, from the borders
of England to those of the Highlands, a powerful and martial race, was himself a redoubted
warrior, and many of his exploits occur in the annals of that turbulent period. In 1371-2,
the English borderers invaded and plundered the lands of Gordon, on the Scottish east march.
Sir John of Gordon retaliated, by an incursion on Northumberland, where he collected much spoil.
But, as he returned with his booty, he was attacked, at unawares, by Sir John Lillburne, a
Northumbrian, who, with a superior force, lay near Carham in ambush, to intercept him. Gordon
harangued and cheered his followers, charged the English gallantly, and, after having himself
been five times in great peril, gained a complete victory; slaying many southerns, and taking
their leader and his brother captive. According to the prior of Lochlevin, he was desperately
wounded; but

  "Thare rays a welle gret renowne,
  "And gretly prysyd wes gud Gordown."

Shortly after this exploit, Sir John of Gordon encountered and routed Sir Thomas Musgrave,
a renowned English marc-hman whom he made prisoner. The lord of Johnstone had, about the same
time, gained a great advantage on the west border; and hence, says Wynton,

  He and the Lord of Gordowne
  Had a soverane gud renown,
  Of ony that war of thare degré,
  For full thai war of gret bounté.

Upon another occasion, John of Gordon is said to have partially succeeded in the surprisal
of the town of Berwick, although the superiority of the garrison obliged him to relinquish
his enterprise.

The ballad is accurate, in introducing this warrior, with his clan, into the host of Douglas
at Otterbourne. Perhaps, as he was in possession of his extensive northern domains, he brought
to the field the northern broad-swords, as well as the lances of his eastern borderers. With
his gallant leader, he lost his life in the deadly conflict. The English ballad commemorates
his valour and prudence;

  "The Erle of Huntley, cawte and kene."

But the title is a premature designation. The earldom of Huntly was first conferred on Alexander
Seaton, who married the grand-daughter of the hero of Otterbourne, and assumed his title from
Huntly, in the north. Besides his eldest son Adam, who carried on the line of the family, Sir
John de Gordon left two sons, known, in tradition, by the familiar names of Jock and Tam. The
former was the ancestor of the Gordons of Pitlurg; the latter of those of Lesmoir, and of Craig-Gordon.
This last family is now represented by James Gordon, Esq. of Craig, being the eleventh, in
direct descent, from Sir John de Gordon.

The Graemes.

The clan of Graeme, always numerous and powerful upon the border, were of Scottish origin,
and deduce the descent of their chieftain, Graeme of Netherby, from John with the bright sword,
a son of Malice Graeme, Earl of Menteith, who flourished in the fourteenth century. Latterly,
they became Englishmen, as the phrase went, and settled upon the Debateable Land, whence they
were transported to Ireland, by James VI., with the exception of a very few respectable families;
"because," said his majesty in a proclamation, "they do all (but especially the Graemes) confess
themselves to be no meet persons to live in these countries; and also, to the intent their
lands may be inhabited by others, of good and honest conversation." But, in the reign of Henry
IV., the Graemes of the border still adhered to the Scottish allegiance, as appears from the
tower of Graeme in Annandale, Graemes Walls in Tweeddale, and other castles within Scotland,
to which they have given their name. The reader is, however, at liberty to suppose, that the
Graemes of the Lennox and Menteith, always ready to shed their blood in the cause of their
country, on this occasion joined Douglas.

  With them the Lindsays light and gay.--p. 64. v. 2.

The chief of this ancient family, at the date of the battle of Otterbourne, was David Liudissay,
lord of Glenesk, afterwards created Earl of Crawford. He was, after the manner of the times,
a most accomplished knight. He survived the battle of Otterbourne, and the succeeding carnage
of Homildon. In May, 1390, he went to England, to seek adventures of chivalry; and justed,
upon London Bridge, against the lord of Wells, an English knight, with so much skill and success,
as to excite, among the spectators, a suspicion that he was tied to his saddle; which he removed,
by riding up to the royal chair, vaulting out of his saddle, and resuming his seat without
assistance, although loaded with complete armour. In 1392, Lindsay was nearly slain in a strange
manner. A band of Catterans, or wild Highlanders, had broken down from the Grampian Hills,
and were engaged in plundering the county of Angus. Walter Ogilvy, the sheriff, with Sir Patrick
Gray, marched against them, and were joined by Sir David Lindsay. Their whole retinue did not
exceed sixty men, and the Highlanders were above three hundred. Nevertheless, trusting to the
superiority of arms and discipline, the knights rushed on the invaders, at Gasclune, in the
Stormont. The issue was unfortunate. Ogilvy, his brother, and many of his kindred, were overpowered
and slain. Lindsay, armed at all points, made great slaughter among the naked Catterans; but,
as he pinned one of them to the earth with his lance, the dying mountaineer writhed upwards
and, collecting his force, fetched a blow with his broad-sword which cut through the knight's
stirrup-leather and steel-boot and nearly severed his leg. The Highlander expired, and Lindsay
was with difficulty borne out of the field by his followers--Wyntown. Lindsay is also noted
for a retort, made to the famous Hotspur. At a march-meeting, at Haldane-Stank, he happened
to observe, that Percy was sheathed in complete armour. "It is for fear of the English horsemen,"
said Percy, in explanation; for he was already meditating the insurrection, immortalised by
Shakespeare. "Ah! Sir Harry," answered Lindsay, "I have seen you more sorely bestad by Scottish
footmen than by English horse."--Wyntown. Such was the leader of the "Lindsays light and guy."

According to Froissard, there were three Lindsays in the battle of Otterbourne, whom he calls
Sir William, Sir James, and Sir Alexander. To Sir James Lindsay there fell "a strange chance
of war," which I give in the words of the old historian. "I shall shewe you of Sir Mathewe
Reedman (an English warrior, and governor of Berwick), who was on horsebacke, to save himselfe,
for he alone coude nat remedy the mater. At his departynge, Sir James Limsay was nere him,
and sawe Sir Mathewe departed. And this Sir James, to wyn honour, followed in chase Sir Mathewe
Reedman, and came so nere him, that he myght have stryken hym with hys speare, if he had lyst.
Than he said, 'Ah! Sir knyght, tourne! it is a shame thus to fly! I am James of Lindsay. If
ye will nat tourne, I shall strike you on the back with my speare.' Sir Mathewe spoke no worde,
but struke his hors with his spurres sorer than he did before. In this maner he chased hym
more than three myles. And at last Sir Mathewe Reedman's hors foundered, and fell under hym.
Than he stept forthe on the erthe, and drewe oute his swerde, and toke corage to defend himselfe.
And the Scotte thoughte to have stryken hym on the brest, but Sir Mathewe Reedman swerved fro
the stroke, and the speare point entred into the erthe. Than Sir Mathewe strake asonder the
speare wyth his swerde. And whan Sir James Limsay sawe howe he had lost his speare, he cast
away the tronchon, and lyghted a-fote, and toke a lytell battell-axe, that he carryed at his
backe, and handled it with his one hand, quickly and delyverly, in the whyche feate Scottes
be well experte. And than he set at Sir Mathewe, and he defended himselfe properly. Thus they
journeyed toguyder, one with an axe, and the other with a swerde, a longe season, and no man
to lette them. Fynally, Sir James Limsay gave the knyght such strokes, and helde him so shorte,
that he was putte out of brethe in such wyse, that he yelded himselfe, and sayde,--'Sir James
Limsay, I yeld me to you.'--'Well,' quod he; 'and I receyve you, rescue or no rescue.'--'I
am content,' quod Reedman, 'so ye dele wyth me like a good companyon.'--'I shall not fayle
that,' quod Limsay, and so put up his swerde. 'Well,' said Reedman, 'what will ye nowe that
I shall do? I am your prisoner; ye have conquered me; I wolde gladly go agayn to Newcastell,
and, within fiftene dayes, I shall come to you into Scotlande, where as ye shall assigne me.'--'I
am content,' quod Limsay; 'ye shall promyse, by your faythe, to present yourselfe, within these
foure wekes, at Edinborowe; and wheresoever ye go, to repute yourselfe my prisoner.' All this
Sir Mathewe sware, and promised to fulfil."

The warriors parted upon these liberal terms, and Reedman returned to Newcastle. But Lindsay
had scarcely ridden a mile, when he met the bishop of Durham, with 500 horse, whom he rode
towards, believing them to be Scottish, until he was too near them to escape. The bysshoppe
stepte to him, and sayde, 'Limsay, ye are taken; yelde ye to me.'--'Who be you?' quod Limsay.
'I am,' quod he, 'the bysshoppe of Durham.'--'And fro whens come you, sir?' quod Limsay. 'I
come fro the battell,' quod the bysshoppe, 'but I strucke never a stroke there. I go backe
to Newcastell for this night, and ye shal go with me.'--'I may not chuse,' quod Limsay, 'sith
ye will have it so. I have taken, and I am taken; suche is the adventures of armes.' Lindsay
was accordingly conveyed to the bishop's lodgings in Newcastle, and here he was met by his
prisoner, Sir Matthew Reedman; who founde hym in a studye, lying in a windowe, and sayde, 'What!
Sir James Lindsay, what make you here?' Than Sir James came forth of the study to him, and
saydc, 'By my fayth, Sir Mathewe, fortune hath brought me hyder; for, as soon as I was departed
fro you, I mete by chaunce the bisshoppe of Durham, to whom I am prisoner, as ye be to me.
I beleve ye shall not nede to come to Edenborowe to me to mak your fynaunce. I thynk, rather,
we shall make an exchange one for another, if the bysshoppe be also contente.'--'Well, sir,'
quod Reedman, 'we shall accord ryghte well toguyder; ye shall dine this day with me: the bysshoppe
and our men be gone forth to fyght with your men. I can nat tell what we shall know at their
retourne.'--'I am content to dyne with you,' quod Limsay."--Froissart's Chronicle, translated
by Bourchier, Lord Berners, Vol. I, chap. 146.

  O gran bontà de' cavalieri antiqui!
  Eran rivali, eran di fè diversi;
  E si sentian, de gli aspri colpi iniqui,
  Per tutta la persona anco dolersi;
  E pur per selve oscure, e calle inqui
  Insieme van senza sospetto aversi.
  L'Orlando.

But the Jardines wald not with him ride.--P. 64. v. 2.

The Jardines were a clan of hardy west-border men. Their chief was Jardine of Applegirth. Their
refusal to ride with Douglas was, probably, the result of one of those perpetual feuds, which
usually rent to pieces a Scottish army.

  And he that had a bonny boy,
  Sent out his horse to grass.--P. 67. v, 4.

Froissard describes a Scottish host, of the same period, as consisting of "IIII. M. men of
armes, knightis, and squires, mounted on good horses; and other X.M. men of warre armed, after
their gyse, right hardy and firse, mounted on lytle hackneys, the whiche were never tyed, nor
kept at hard meat, but lette go to pasture in the fieldis and bushes."--Cronykle of Froissart,
translated by Lord Berners, Chap. xvii.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SANG OF THE OUTLAW MURRAY.

This ballad appears to have been composed about the reign of James V. It commemorates a transaction,
supposed to have taken place betwixt a Scottish monarch, and an ancestor of the ancient family
of Murray of Philiphaugh in Selkirkshire. The editor is unable to ascertain the historical
foundation of the tale; nor is it probable that any light can be thrown upon the subject, without
an accurate examination of the family charter chest. It is certain, that, during the civil
wars betwixt Bruce and Baliol, the family of Philiphaugh existed, and was powerful; for their
ancestor, Archibald de Moravia, subscribes the oath of fealty to Edward I.A.D. 1296. It is,
therefore, not unlikely, that, residing in a wild and frontier country, they may have, at one
period or other, during these commotions, refused allegiance to the feeble monarch of the day,
and thus extorted from him some grant of territory or jurisdiction. It is also certain, that,
by a charter from James IV., dated November 30, 1509, John Murray of Philiphaugh is vested
with the dignity of heritable sheriff of Ettrick Forest, an office held by his descendants
till the final abolition of such jurisdictions by 28th George II. cap. 23. But it seems difficult
to believe that the circumstances, mentioned in the ballad, could occur under the reign of
so vigorous a monarch as James IV. It is true, that the Dramatis Personae introduced seem to
refer to the end of the fifteenth, or beginning of the sixteenth, century; but from this it
can only be argued, that the author himself lived soon after that period. It may, therefore,
be supposed (unless farther evidence can be produced, tending to invalidate the conclusion),
that the bard, willing to pay his court to the family, has connected the grant of the sheriffship
by James IV. with some further dispute betwixt the Murrays of Philiphaugh and their sovereign,
occurring, either while they were engaged upon the side of Baliol, or in the subsequent reigns
of David II. and Robert II. and III., when the English possessed great part of the Scottish
frontier, and the rest was in so lawless a state as hardly to acknowledge any superior. At
the same time, this reasoning is not absolutely conclusive. James IV. had particular reasons
for desiring that Ettrick Forest, which actually formed part of the jointure lands of Margaret,
his queen, should be kept in a state of tranquillity.--Rymer, Vol. XIII. p. 66. In order to
accomplish this object, it was natural for him, according to the policy of his predecessors
to invest one great family with the power of keeping order among the rest. It is even probable,
that the Philiphaugh family may have had claims upon part of the lordship of Ettrick Forest,
which lay intermingled with their own extensive possessions; and, in the course of arranging,
not indeed the feudal superiority, but the property, of these lands, a dispute may have arisen,
of sufficient importance to be the ground-work of a ballad.--It is farther probable, that the
Murrays, like other border clans, were in a very lawless state, and held their lands merely
by occupancy, without any feudal right. Indeed, the lands of the various proprietors in Ettrick
Forest (being a royal demesne) were held by the possessors, not in property, but as the kindly
tenants, or rentallers, of the crown; and it is only about 150 years since they obtained charters,
striking the feu-duty of each proprietor, at the rate of the quit-rent, which he formerly paid.
This state of possession naturally led to a confusion of rights and claims. The kings of Scotland
were often reduced to the humiliating necessity of compromising such matters with their rebellious
subjects, and James himself even entered into a sort of league with Johnie Faa, the king of
the gypsies.--Perhaps, therefore, the tradition, handed down in this song, may have had more
foundation than it would at present be proper positively to assert.

The merit of this beautiful old tale, it is thought, will be fully acknowledged. It has been,
for ages, a popular song in Selkirkshire. The scene is, by the common people, supposed to have
been the castle of Newark, upon Yarrow. This is highly improbable, because Newark was always
a royal fortress. Indeed, the late excellent antiquarian Mr. Plummer, sheriff-depute of Selkirkshire,
has assured the editor, that he remembered the insignia of the unicorns, &c. so often mentioned
in the ballad, in existence upon the old tower at Hangingshaw, the seat of the Philiphaugh
family; although, upon first perusing a copy of the ballad, he was inclined to subscribe to
the popular opinion. The tower of Hangingshaw has been demolished for many years. It stood
in a romantic and solitary situation, on the classical banks of the Yarrow. When the mountains
around Hangingshaw were covered with the wild copse which constituted a Scottish forest, a
more secure strong-hold for an outlawed baron can hardly be imagined.

The tradition of Ettrick Forest bears, that the Outlaw was a man of prodigious strength, possessing
a batton or club, with which he laid lee (i.e. waste) the country for many miles round; and
that he was at length slain by Buccleuch, or some of his clan, at a little mount, covered with
fir-trees, adjoining to Newark castle, and said to have been a part of the garden. A varying
tradition bears the place of his death to have been near to the house of the Duke of Buccleuch's
game-keeper, beneath the castle; and, that the fatal arrow was shot by Scot of Haining, from
the ruins of a cottage on the opposite side of the Yarrow. There was extant, within these twenty
years, some verses of a song on his death. The feud betwixt the Outlaw and the Scotts may serve
to explain the asperity, with which the chieftain of that clan is handled in the ballad.

In publishing the following ballad, the copy principally resorted to is one, apparently of
considerable antiquity, which was found among the papers of the late Mrs. Cockburn, of Edinburgh,
a lady whose memory will be long honoured by all who knew her. Another copy, much more imperfect,
is to be found in Glenriddel's MSS. The names are in this last miserably mangled, as is always
the case when ballads are taken down from the recitation of persons living at a distance from
the scenes in which they are laid. Mr. Plummer also gave the editor a few additional verses,
not contained in either copy, which are thrown into what seemed their proper place. There is
yet another copy, in Mr. Herd's MSS., which has been occasionally made use of. Two verses are
restored in the present edition, from the recitation of Mr. Mungo Park, whose toils, during
his patient and intrepid travels in Africa, have not eradicated from his recollection the legendary
lore of his native country.

The arms of the Philiphaugh family are said by tradition to allude to their outlawed state.
They are indeed those of a huntsman, and are blazoned thus; Argent, a hunting horn sable, stringed
and garnished gules, on a chief azure, three stars of the first. Crest, a Demi Forester, winding
his horn, proper. Motto, Hinc usque superna venabor.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SANG OF THE OUTLAW MURRAY.

  Ettricke Foreste is a feir foreste,
  In it grows manie a semelie trie;
  There's hart and hynd, and dae and rae,
  And of a' wilde beastes grete plentie.

  There's a feir castelle, bigged wi' lyme and stane;
  O! gin it stands not pleasauntlie!
  In the forefront o' that castelle feir,
  Twa unicorns are bra' to see;
  There's the picture of a knight, and a ladye bright,
  And the grene hollin abune their brie.[106]

  There an Outlaw keeps five hundred men;
  He keepis a royalle cumpanie!

  His merryemen are a' in ae liverye clad,
  O' the Liukome grene saye gaye to see;
  He and his ladye in purple clad,
  O! gin they lived not royallie!

  Word is gane to our nobil king,
  In Edinburgh, where that he lay,
  That there was an Outlaw in Ettricke Foreste,
  Counted him nought, nor a' his courtrie gay.

  "I make a vowe," then the gude king said,
  Unto the man that deir bought me,
  "I'se either be king of Ettricke Foreste,
  Or king of Scotlonde that Outlaw sail be!"

  Then spak the lord, hight Hamilton,
  And to the nobil king said he,
  "My sovereign prince, sum counsell take,
  First at your nobilis, syne at me.

  "I redd ye, send yon braw Outlaw till,
  And see gif your man cum will he:
  Desyre him cum and be your man,
  And hald of you yon Foreste frie.

  "Gif he refuses to do that,
  We'll conquess baith his landis and he!
  Or else, we'll throw his castell down,
  And make a widowe o' his gay ladye."

  The king then call'd a gentleman,
  James Boyd, (the Earl of Arran his brother was he)
  When James he cam befor the king,
  He knelit befor him on his kné.

  "Wellcum, James Boyd!" said our nobil king;
  "A message ye maun gang for me;
  Ye maun hye to Ettricke Foreste,
  To yon Outlaw, where bydeth he:

  "Ask him of whom he haldis his landis,
  Or man, wha may his master be,
  And desyre him cum, and be my man,
  And hald of me yon Foreste frie.

  "To Edinburgh to cum and gang,
  His safe warrant I sall gie;
  And gif he refuses to do that,
  We'll conquess baith his landis and he.

  "Thou may'st vow I'll cast his castell down,
  And mak a widowe o' his gay ladye;
  I'll hang his merryemen, payr by payr,
  In ony frith where I may them see."

  James Boyd tuik his leave o' the nobil king,
  To Ettricke Foreste feir cam he;
  Down Birkendale Brae when that he cam,
  He saw the feir Foreste wi' his e'e.

  Baithe dae and rae, and hart and hinde,
  And of a' wilde beastis great plentie;
  He heard the bows that bauldly ring,
  And arrows whidderan' hym near bi.

  Thereat he spyed five hundred men,
  Shuting with bows on Newark Lee;

  They were a' in ae livery clad,
  O' the Lincome grene sae gaye to see.

  His men were a' clad in the grene,
  The knight was armed capapie,
  With a bended bow, on a milk-white steed;
  And I wot they ranked right bonilie.

  Thereby Boyd kend he was master man,
  And serv'd him in his ain degré.
  "God mot thee save, brave Outlaw Murray!
  Thy ladye, and all thy chyvalrie!"
  "Marry, thou's wellcum, gentelman,
  Some king's messenger thou seemis to be."

  "The king of Scotlonde sent me here,
  And, gude Outlaw, I am sent to thee;
  I wad wot of whom ye hald your landis,
  Or man, wha may thy master be?"

  "Thir landis are MINE!" the Outlaw said;
  "I ken nae king in Christentie;
  Frae Soudron[107] I this Foreste wan,
  When the king nor his knightis were not to see."

  "He desyres you'l cum to Edinburgh,
  And hauld of him this Foreste frie;
  And, gif ye refuse to do this,
  He'll conquess baith thy landis and thee.
  He hath vow'd to cast thy castell down,
  And mak a widowe o' thy gaye ladye;

  "He'll hang thy merryemen, payr by payr,
  In ony frith where he may them finde."
  "Aye, by my troth!" the Outlaw said,
  "Than wald I think me far behinde.

  "E'er the king my feir countrie get,
  This land that's nativest to me!
  Mony o' his nobilis sall be cauld,
  Their ladyes sall be right wearie."

  Then spak his ladye, feir of face,
  She seyd, "Without consent of me,
  That an Outlaw suld cum befor a King;
  I am right rad[108] of treasonrie.
  Bid him be gude to his lordis at hame,
  For Edinburgh my lord sall nevir see."

  James Boyd tuik his leave o' the Outlaw kene,
  To Edinburgh boun is he;
  When James he cam befor the king,
  He knelit lowlie on his kné.

  "Wellcum, James Boyd!" seyd our nobil king;
  "What Foreste is Ettricke Foreste frie?"
  "Ettricke Foreste is the feirest foreste
  That evir man saw wi' his e'e.

  "There's the dae, the rae, the hart, the hynde,
  And of a' wild beastis grete plentie;
  There's a pretty castell of lyme and stane;
  O gif it stands not pleasauntlie!

  "There's in the forefront o' that castell,
  Twa unicorns, sae bra' to see;
  There's the picture of a knight, and a ladye bright,
  Wi' the grene hollin abune their brie.

  "There the Outlaw keepis five hundred men;
  He keepis a royalle cumpanie!
  His merrymen in ae livery clad,
  O' the Linkome grene sae gaye to see:

  "He and his ladye in purple clad;
  O! gin they live not royallie!

  "He says, yon Foreste is his awin;
  He wan it frae the Southronie;
  Sae as he wan it, sae will he keep it,
  Contrair all kingis in Christentie."

  "Gar warn me Perthshire, and Angus baith;
  Fife up and down, and the Louthians three,
  And graith my horse!" said the nobil king,
  "For to Ettricke Foreste hie will I me."

  Then word is gane the Outlaw till,
  In Ettricke Foreste, where dwelleth he,
  That the king was cuming to his cuntrie,
  To conquess baith his landis and he.

  "I mak a vow," the Outlaw said,
  "I mak a vow, and that trulie,
  Were there but three men to tak my pairt;
  Yon king's cuming full deir suld be!"

  Then messengers he called forth,
  And bade them hie them speedilye--
  "Ane of ye gae to Halliday,
  The laird of the Corhead is he.

  "He certain is my sister's son;
  Bid him cum quick and succour me!
  The king cums on for Ettricke Foreste,
  And landless men we a' will be."

  "What news? What news?" said Halliday,
  "Man, frae thy master unto me?"
  "Not as ye wad; seeking your aide;
  The king's his mortal enemie."

  "Aye, by my troth!" said Halliday,
  "Even for that it repenteth me;
  For gif he lose feir Ettricke Foreste,
  He'll tak feir Moffatdale frae me.

  "I'll meet him wi' five hundred men,
  And surely mair, if mae may be;
  And before he gets the Foreste feir,
  We a' will die on Newark Lee!"

  The Outlaw call'd a messenger,
  And bid him hie him speedilye,
  To Andrew Murray of Cockpool--
  "That man's a deir cousin to me;
  Desyre him cum, and mak me ayd,
  With a' the power that he may be."

  "It stands me hard," Andrew Murray said,
  Judge gif it stands na hard wi' me;
  To enter against a king wi' crown,
  And set my landis in jeopardie!
  Yet, if I cum not on the day,
  Surely at night he sall me see."

  To Sir James Murray of Traquair,
  A message cam right speedilye--
  "What news? What news?" James Murray said,
  "Man, frae thy master unto me?"

  "What neids I tell? for weell ye ken,
  The king's his mortal enemie;
  And now he is cuming to Ettricke Foreste,
  And landless men ye a' will be."

  "And, by my trothe," James Murray said,
  "Wi' that Outlaw will I live and die;
  The king has gifted my landis lang syne--
  It cannot be nae warse wi' me."

  The king was cuming thro' Caddon Ford[109],
  And full five thousand men was he;
  They saw the derke Foreste them before,
  They thought it awsome for to see.

  Then spak the lord, hight Hamilton,
  And to the nobil king said he,
  "My sovereign liege, sum council tak,
  First at your nobilis, syne at me.

  "Desyre him mete thee at Permanscore,
  And bring four in his cumpanie;
  Five erles sall gang yoursell befor,
  Gude cause that you suld honour'd be.

  "And, gif he refuses to do that,
  We'll conquess baith his landis and he;
  "There sall nevir a Murray, after him,
  Hald land in Ettricke Foreste frie."

  Then spak the kene laird of Buckscleuth,
  A stalworthye man, and sterne was he--
  "For a king to gang an Outlaw till,
  Is beneath his state and his dignitie.

  "The man that wons yon Foreste intill,
  He lives by reif and felonie!
  Wherefore, brayd on, my sovereign liege!
  Wi' fire and sword we'll follow thee;
  Or, gif your courtrie lords fa' back,
  Our borderers sall the onset gie."

  Then out and spak the nobil king,
  And round him cast a wilie e'e--
  "Now haud thy tongue, Sir Walter Scott,
  Nor speik of reif nor felonie:
  For, had everye honeste man his awin kye,
  A right puir clan thy name wad be!"

  The king then call'd a gentleman,
  Royal banner bearer there was he;

  James Hop Pringle of Torsonse, by name;
  He cam and knelit upon his kné.

  "Wellcum, James Pringle of Torsonse!
  A message ye maun gang for me;
  Ye maun gae to yon Outlaw Murray,
  Surely where bauldly bideth he.

  "Bid him mete me at Permanscore,
  And bring four in his cumpanie;
  Five erles sall cum wi' mysell
  Gude reason I suld honour'd be.

  "And, gif he refuses to do that,
  Bid him luke for nae good o' me!
  Ther sall nevir a Murray, after him,
  Have land in Ettricke Foreste frie."

  James cam befor the Outlaw kene,
  And serv'd him in his ain degré--
  "Wellcum, James Pringle of Torsonse!
  What message frae the king to me?"

  "He bidds ye mete him at Permanscore,
  And bring four in your cumpanie;
  Five erles sall gang himsell befor,
  Nae mair in number will he be.

  "And, gif you refuse to do that,
  (I freely here upgive wi' thee)
  He'll cast yon bonny castle down,
  And mak a widowe o' that gaye ladye.

  "He'll loose yon bluidhound borderers,
  Wi' fire and sword to follow thee;
  There will nevir a Murray, after thysell,
  Have land in Ettricke Foreste frie."

  "It stands me hard," the Outlaw said;
  "Judge gif it stands na hard wi' me!
  Wha reck not losing of mysell,
  But a' my offspring after me.

  "My merryemen's lives, my widowe's teirs--
  There lies the pang that pinches me!
  When I am straught in bluidie eard,
  Yon castell will be right dreirie.

  "Auld Halliday, young Halliday,
  Ye sall be twa to gang wi' me;
  Andrew Murray, and Sir James Murray,
  We'll be nae mae in cumpanie."

  When that they cam befor the king,
  They fell befor him on their kné--
  "Grant mercie, mercie, nobil king!
  E'en for his sake that dyed on trie."

  "Sicken like mercie sall ye have;
  On gallows ye sall hangit be!"
  "Over God's forbode," quoth the Outlaw then,
  "I hope your grace will bettir be!
  Else, ere ye come to Edinburgh port,
  I trow thin guarded sall ye be:

  "Thir landis of Ettricke Foreste feir,
  I wan them from the enemie;
  Like as I wan them, sae will I keep them,
  Contrair a' kingis in Christentie."

  All the nobilis the king about,
  Said pitie it were to see him die--
  "Yet graunt me mercie, sovereign prince!
  Extend your favour unto me!

  "I'll give thee the keys of my castell,
  Wi' the blessing o' my gaye ladye,
  Gin thoul't mak me sheriffe of this Foreste,
  And a' my offspring after me."

  "Wilt thou give me the keys of thy castell,
  Wi' the blessing of thy gaye ladye?
  I'se mak thee sheriffe of Ettricke Foreste,
  Surely while upwards grows the trie;
  If you be not traitour to the king,
  Forfaulted sall thou nevir be."

  "But, prince, what sall cum o' my men?
  When I gae back, traitour they'll ca' me.
  I had rather lose my life and land,
  E'er my merryemen rebuked me."

  "Will your merryemen amend their lives?
  And a' their pardons I graunt thee--
  Now, name thy landis where'er they lie,
  And here I RENDER them to thee."

  "Fair Philiphaugh is mine by right,
  And Lewinshope still mine shall be;
  Newark, Foulshiells, and Tinnies baith,
  My bow and arrow purchased me.

  "And I have native steads to me,
  The Newark Lee and Hangingshaw;
  I have mony steads in the Foreste shaw,
  But them by name I dinna knaw."

  The keys o' the castell he gave the king,
  Wi' the blessing o' his feir ladye;
  He was made sheriffe of Ettricke Foreste,
  Surely while upwards grows the trie;
  And if he was na traitour to the king,
  Forfaulted he suld nevir be.

  Wha ever heard, in ony times,
  Sicken an Outlaw in his degré,
  Sick favour get befor a king,
  As did the OUTLAW MURRAY of the Foreste frie?

[Footnote 106: Brow.]

[Footnote 107: Southern, or English.]

[Footnote 108: Afraid.]

[Footnote 109: A ford on the Tweed, at the mouth of the Caddon Burn, near Yair.]

NOTES ON THE SANG OF THE OUTLAW MURRAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then spak the Lord, hight Hamilton.--P. 86. v. 4.

This is, in most copies, the earl hight Hamilton, which must be a mistake of the reciters,
as the family did not enjoy that title till 1503.

James Boyd (the Earl of Arran his brother), &c.--P. 87. v. 2.

Thomas Boyd, Earl of Arran, was forfeited, with his father and uncle, in 1469, for an attempt
on the person of James III. He had a son, James, who was restored, and in favour with James
IV. about 1482. If this be the person here meant, we should read "The Earl of Arran his son
was he." Glenriddel's copy reads, "A highland laird I'm sure was he." Reciters sometimes call
the messenger, the laird of Skene.

  Down Birkendale Brae when that he cam.--P. 88, v. 2.

Birkendale Brae, now commonly called Birkendailly, is a steep descent on the south side of
Minch-Moor, which separates Tweeddale from Ettrick Forest; and from the top of which you have
the first view of the woods of Hangingshaw, the castle of Newark, and the romantic dale of Yarrow.

  The laird of the Corehead, &c.--P. 93. v. 1.

This is a place at the head of Moffat-water, possessed of old by the family of Halliday.

  To Andrew Murray of Cockpool.--P. 94. v. 1.

This family were ancestors of the Murrays, earls of Annandale; but the name of the representative,
in the time of James IV. was William, not Andrew. Glenriddel's MS. reads, "the country-keeper."

  To Sir James Murray of Traquair.--P. 94. v. 3.

Before the barony of Traquair became the property of the Stewarts, it belonged to a family
of Murrays, afterwards Murrays of Black-barony, and ancestors of Lord Elibank. The old castle
was situated on the Tweed. The lands of Traquair were forfeited by Willielmus de Moravia, previous
to 1464; for, in that year, a charter, proceeding upon his forfeiture, was granted by the crown
"Willielmo Douglas de Cluny." Sir James was, perhaps, the heir of William Murray. It would
farther seem, that the grant in 1464 was not made effectual by Douglas; for, another charter
from the crown, dated the 3d February, 1478, conveys the estate of Traquair to James Stewart,
Earl of Buchan, son to the black knight of Lorne, and maternal uncle to James III., from whom
is descended the present Earl of Traquair. The first royal grant not being followed by possession,
it is very possible that the Murrays may have continued to occupy Traquair long after the date
of that charter. Hence, Sir James might have reason to say, as in the ballad, "The king has
gifted my lands lang syne."

  James Hop Pringle of Torsonse.--P. 97. v. 1.

The honourable name of Pringle, or Hoppringle, is of great antiquity in Roxburghshire and Selkirkshire.
The old tower of Torsonse is situated upon the banks of the Gala. I believe the Pringles of
Torsonse are now represented by Sir James Pringle of Stitchell. There are three other ancient
and distinguished families of this name; those of Whitebank, Clifton, and Torwoodlee.

  He bids ye mete him at Permanscore.--P. 98. v. 1.

Permanscore is a hollow on the top of a high ridge of hills, dividing the vales of Tweed and
Yarrow, a little to the east-ward of Minch-Moor. It is the outermost point of the lands of
Broadmeadows. The Glenriddel MS., which, in this instance, is extremely inaccurate as to names,
calls the place of rendezvous "The Poor Man's house," and hints, that the Outlaw was surprised
by the treachery of the king:--

  "Then he was aware of the king's coming,
  With hundreds three in company,
  I wot the muckle deel * * * * *
  He learned kings to lie!
  For to fetch me here frae amang my men,
  Here like a dog for to die."

I believe the reader will think, with me, that the catastrophe is better, as now printed from
Mrs. Cockburn's copy. The deceit supposed to be practised on the Outlaw, is unworthy of the
military monarch, as he is painted in the ballad; especially if we admit him to be King James IV.

  Fair Philiphaugh is mine by right.--P. 101. v. 1.

In this and the following verse, the ceremony of feudal investiture is supposed to be gone
through, by the Outlaw resigning his possessions into the hands of the king, and receiving
them back, to be held of him as superior. The lands of Philiphaugh are still possessed by the
Outlaw's representative. Hangingshaw and Lewinshope were sold of late years. Newark, Foulshiels
and Tinnies, have long belonged to the family of Buccleuch.

JOHNIE ARMSTRANG.

       *       *       *       *       *

There will be such frequent occasion, in the course of this volume, to mention the clan, or
sept, of the Armstrongs, that the editor finds it necessary to prefix, to this ballad, some
general account of that tribe.

The Armstrongs appear to have been, at an early period, in possession of great part of Liddesdale,
and of the Debateable Land. Their immediate neighbourhood to England, rendered them the most
lawless of the Border depredators; and, as much of the country possessed by them was claimed
by both kingdoms, the inhabitants, protected from justice by the one nation, in opposition
to the other, securely preyed upon both.[110] The chief was Armstrong of Mangertoun; but, at
a later period, they are declared a broken clan, i.e. one which had no lawful head, to become
surety for their good behaviour. The rapacity of this clan, and of their allies, the Elliots,
occasioned the popular saying, "Elliots and Armstrongs ride thieves all."--But to what Border-family
of note, in former days, would not such an adage have been equally applicable? All along the
river Liddel may still be discovered the ruins of towers, possessed by this numerous clan.
They did not, however, entirely trust to these fastnesses; but, when attacked by a superior
force, abandoned entirely their dwellings, and retired into morasses, accessible by paths known
to themselves alone. One of their most noted places of refuge was the Tarras Moss, a desolate
and horrible marsh, through which a small river takes its course. Upon its banks are found
some dry spots, which were occupied by these outlaws, and their families, in cases of emergency.
The stream runs furiously among huge rocks, which has occasioned a popular saying--

  Was ne'er are drown'd in Tarras, nor yet in doubt,
  For e'er the head can win down, the harns (brains) are out.

The morass itself is so deep, that, according to an old historian, two spears tied together
would not reach the bottom. In this retreat, the Armstrongs, anno 1588, baffled the Earl of
Angus, when lieutenant on the Border, although he reckoned himself so skilful in winding a
thief, that he declared, "he had the same pleasure in it, as others in a hunting a hare." On
this occasion he was totally unsuccessful, and nearly lost his relation, Douglas of Ively,
whom the freebooters made prisoner.--Godscroft Vol. II. p. 411.

[Footnote 110: In illustration of this position, the reader is referred to a long correspondence
betwixt Lord Dacre and the Privy Council of England, in 1550, concerning one Sandye Armstrang,
a partizan of England, and an inhabitant of the Debateable Land, who had threatened to become
a Scottishman, if he was not protected by the English warden against the Lord Maxwell.--See
Introduction to Nicholson and Burn's History of Cumberland and Westmoreland.]

Upon another occasion the Armstrongs were less fortunate. They had, in one of their incursions,
plundered the town of Haltwhistle, on the borders of Cumberland. Sir Robert Carey, warden of
the west marches, demanded satisfaction from the king of Scotland, and received for answer,
that the offenders were no subjects of his, and that he might take his own revenge. The English
warden, accordingly entered Llddesdale, and ravaged the lands of the outlaws; on which occasion,
Sim of the Cat-hill (an Armstrong) was killed by one of the Ridleys of Haltwhistle. This incident
procured Haltwhistle another visit from the Armstrongs, in which they burnt great part of the
town, but not without losing one of their leaders, by a shot from a window.

"The death of this young man (says Sir Robert Carey) wrote (wrought) so deep an impression
upon them (the outlaws), as many vowes were made, that, before the end of next winter, they
would lay the whole Border waste. This (the murder) was done about the end of May (1598). The
chiefe of all these outlaws was old Sim of Whittram.[111] He had five or six sonnes, as able
men as the Borders had. This old man and his sonnes had not so few as two hundred at their
commands, that were ever ready to ride with them to all actions, at their beck.

[Footnote 111: Whittram is a place in Liddesdale. It is mistaken by the noble editor for Whithern,
in Galloway, as is Hartwesel (Haltwhistle, on the borders of Cumberland) for Twisel, a village
on the English side of the Tweed, near Wark.]

The high parts of the marsh (march) towards Scotland were put in a mighty fear, and the chiefe
of them, for themselves and the rest, petitioned to mee, and did assure mee, that, unless I
did take some course with them, by the end of that summer, there was none of the inhabitants
durst, or would, stay in their dwellings the next winter, but they would fley the countrey,
and leave their houses and lands to the fury of the outlawes. Upon this complaint, I called
the gentlemen of the countrey together, and acquainted them with the misery that the highest
parts of the marsh towards Scotland were likely to endure, if there were not timely prevention
to avoid it, and desired them to give mee their best advice what course were fitt to be taken.
They all showed themselves willing to give mee their best counsailles, and most of them were
of opinion, that I was not well advised to refuse the hundred horse that my Lord Euers had;
and that now my best way was speedily to acquaint the quene and counsaile with the necessity
of having more soldiers, and that there could not be less than a hundred horse sent downe for
the defence of the countrey, besides the forty I had already in pay, and that there was nothing
but force of soldiers could keep them in awe: and to let the counsaile plainly understand,
that the marsh, of themselves, were not able to subsist, whenever the winter and long nights
came in, unlesse present cure and remedy were provided for them. I desired them to advise better
of it, and to see if they could find out any other meanes to prevent their mischievous intentions,
without putting the quene and countrey to any further charge. They all resolved that there
was no second meanes. Then I told them my intention what I meant to do, which was, that myselfe,
with my two deputies, and the forty horse that I was allowed, would, with what speede wee could,
make ourselves ready to go up to the Wastes, and there wee would entrench ourselves, and lye
as near as wee could to the outlawes; and, if there were any brave spirits among them, that
would go with us, they should be very wellcome, and fare and lye as well as myselfe: and I
did not doubte before the summer ended, to do something that should abate the pride of these
outlawes. Those, that were unwilling to hazard themselves, liked not this motion. They said,
that, in so doing, I might keep the countrey quiet the time I lay there; but, when the winter
approached, I could stay there no longer, and that was the theeves' time to do all their mischiefe.
But there were divers young gentlemen, that offered to go with mee, some with three, some with
four horses, and to stay with mee as long as I would there continue. I took a list of those
that offered to go with mee, and found, that, with myself, my officers, the gentlemen, and
our servants, wee should be about two hundred good men and horse; a competent number, as I
thought, for such a service.

The day and place was appointed for our meeting in the Wastes, and, by the help of the foot
of Liddisdale[112] and Risdale, wee had soone built a pretty fort, and within it wee had all
cabines made to lye in, and every one brought beds or matresses to lye on. There wee stayed,
from the middest of June, till almost the end of August. We were betweene fifty and sixty gentlemen,
besides their servants and my horsemen; so that wee were not so few as two hundred horse. Wee
wanted no provisions for ourselves nor our horses, for the countrey people were well payed
for any thing they brought us; so that wee had a good market every day, before our fort, to
buy what we lacked. The chiefe outlawes, at our coming, fled their houses where they dwelt,
and betooke themselves to a large and great forest (with all their goodes), which was called
the Tarras. It was of that strength, and so surrounded with bogges and marish grounds, and
thicke bushes and shrubbes, as they feared not the force nor power of England nor Scotland,
so long as they were there. They sent me word, that I was like the first puffe of a haggasse,[113]
hottest at the first, and bade me stay there as long as the weather would give me leave. They
would stay in the Tarras Wood till I was weary of lying in the Waste; and when I had had my
time, and they no whit the worse, they would play their parts, which should keep mee waking
the next winter. Those gentlemen of the countrey that came not with mee, were of the same minde;
for they knew (or thought at least), that my force was not sufficient to withstand the furey
of the outlawes. The time I stayed at the fort I was not idle, but cast, by all meanes I could,
how to take them in the great strength they were in. I found a meanes to send a hundred and
fifty horsemen into Scotland (conveighed by a muffled man,[114] not known to any of the company),
thirty miles within Scotland, and the businesse was carried so, that none in the countrey tooke
any alarm at this passage. They were quietly brought to the back-side of the Tarras, to Scotland-ward.
There they divided themselves into three parts, and tooke up three passages which the outlawes
made themselves secure of, if from England side they should at any time be put at.

[Footnote 112: The foot of Liddisdale were the garrison of King James, in the castle of Hermitage,
who assisted Carey on this occasion, as the Armstrongs were outlaws to both nations.]

