The Augustan Reprint Society

                LEWIS THEOBALD
     Preface to The Works of Shakespeare
                    (1734)

            With an Introduction by
                  Hugh G. Dick

             Publication Number 20
             (Extra Series, No. 2)

                  Los Angeles
    William Andrews Clark Memorial Library
           University of California
                     1949

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL EDITORS

H. RICHARD ARCHER, Clark Memorial Library RICHARD C. BOYS, University of Michigan EDWARD NILES
HOOKER, University of California, Los Angeles H.T. SWEDENBERG, JR., University of California,
Los Angeles

ASSISTANT EDITORS

W. EARL BRITTON, University of Michigan JOHN LOFTIS, University of California, Los Angeles

ADVISORY EDITORS

EMMETT L. AVERY, State College of Washington BENJAMIN BOYCE, University of Nebraska LOUIS I.
BREDVOLD, University of Michigan CLEANTH BROOKS, Yale University JAMES L. CLIFFORD, Columbia
University ARTHUR FRIEDMAN, University of Chicago SAMUEL H. MONK, University of Minnesota ERNEST
MOSSNER, University of Texas JAMES SUTHERLAND, Queen Mary College, London

       *       *       *       *       *

INTRODUCTION

Lewis Theobald's edition of Shakespeare (1734) is one cornerstone of modern Shakespearian scholarship
and hence of English literary scholarship in general. It is the first edition of an English
writer in which a man with a professional breadth and concentration of reading in the writer's
period tried to bring all relevant, ascertainable fact to bear on the establishment of the
author's text and the explication of his obscurities. For Theobald was the first editor of
Shakespeare who displayed a well grounded knowledge of Shakespeare's language and metrical
practice and that of his contemporaries, the sources and chronology of his plays, and the broad
range of Elizabethan-Jacobean drama as a means of illuminating the work of the master writer.
Thus both in the edition itself and in his Preface, which stands as the first significant statement
of a scholar's editorial duties and methods in handling an English classic, Theobald takes
his place as an important progenitor of modern English studies.

It is regrettable, though it was perhaps historically inevitable, that this pioneer of English
literary scholarship should have been tagged "piddling Theobald" by Pope and crowned the first
king of The Dunciad. Pope's edition of Shakespeare was completed by 1725, and in the following
year Theobald made the poet his implacable enemy when he issued his Shakespeare Restored, which
demolished Pope's pretensions as an editor by offering some two hundred corrections. But the
conflict was not merely strife between two writers: it was a clash between two kinds of criticism
in which the weight of tradition and polite taste were all on the side of Pope. What Theobald
had done, in modern terms, was to open the rift between criticism and scholarship or, in eighteenth-century
terms, to proclaim himself a "literal critic" and to insist upon the need for "literal criticism"
in the understanding and just appreciation of an older writer. The new concept, which Theobald
owed largely to Richard Bentley as primate of the classical scholars, was of course the narrower
one--implicit in it was the idea of specialization--and Theobald's opponents among the literati
were quick to assail him as a mere "Word-catcher" (cf. R.F. Jones, Lewis Theobald, 1919, p. 114).

His own edition of Shakespeare, therefore, was the work of a man and a method on trial. At
first Theobald had proposed simply to write further commentary on Shakespeare's plays, but
by 1729 he determined to issue a new edition and in October of that year signed a contract
with Tonson. From the first Theobald found warm support for his project among booksellers,
incipient patrons, and men of learning. His work went forward steadily; subscribers, including
members of the Royal Family, were readily forthcoming; and by late 1731 Theobald felt that
his labors were virtually complete. But vexing delays occurred in the printing so that the
edition, though dated 1733, did not appear until early in 1734, New Style. When it did appear,
it was plain to all that Theobald's vindication of himself and his method was complete. Judicious
critics like the anonymous author of Some Remarks on the Tragedy of Hamlet (1736) were quick
to applaud Theobald's achievement, and even Pope himself was silenced.

Ultimately of course Theobald came under severe attack by succeeding editors of Shakespeare,
notably Warburton and Johnson, yet both men were guilty of unwarranted abuse of their predecessor,
whose edition was nine times issued in the course of the century and was still in current use
by the time of Coleridge (cf. Wm. Jaggard, Shakespeare Bibliography, 1911, pp. 499-504). Warburton
and Johnson's abuse, coupled with that of Pope, obscured Theobald's real achievements for more
than a century until J.C. Collins did much to rehabilitate his reputation by an essay celebrating
him as "The Porson of Shakespearian Criticism" (Essays and Studies, 1895, pp. 263-315). Collins's
emotional defense was largely substantiated by T.R. Lounsbury's meticulous The Text of Shakespeare
(1906), R.F. Jones's Lewis Theobald (1919), which brought much new material to light, and most
recently by R.B. McKerrow's dispassionate appraisal, "The Treatment of Shakespeare's Text by
his Earlier Editors, 1709-1768" (Proceedings of the British Academy, XIX, 1933, 23-27). As
a result, so complete has been Theobald's vindication that even in a student's handbook he
is hailed as "the great pioneer of serious Shakespeare scholarship" and as "the first giant"
in the field (A Companion to Shakespeare Studies, 1934, ed. H. Granville Barker and G.B. Harrison,
pp. 306-07).

Theobald's Preface occupied his attention for over a year and gave him much trouble in the
writing. Its originality was, and still is, a matter of sharp dispute. The first we hear of
it is in a letter of 12 November 1731 from Theobald to his coadjutor Warburton, who had expressed
some concern about what Theobald planned to prefix to his edition. Theobald announced a major
change in plan when he replied that "The affair of the Prolegomena I have determined to soften
into a Preface."

His next letter, which contains the list of acknowledgements substantially as printed, thanks
Warburton for consenting to give the requested help, announces that he is himself busy about
"the Contents... wch. I am Endeavouring to modell in my Head, in Order to communicate them
to you, for your Directions & refinement," indicates that he has "already rough-hewn the Exordium
& Conclusion," and asserts that "What I shall send you from Time to Time, I look upon only
as Materials: wch I hope may grow into a fine Building, under your judicious Management" (Jones,
op. cit., pp. 283-84).

Warburton apparently misunderstood or overlooked Theobald's remarks about materials, for in
his next letter Theobald was obliged to return, somewhat ambiguously, to the same point:

  I make no Question of my being wrong in the disjointed Parts
  of my Preface, but my Intention was, (after I had given you the
  Conclusion, & the Manner in wch. I meant to start) to give you a
  List of all the other general Heads design'd to be handled, then to
  transmit to you, at proper Leisure, my rough Working off of each
  respective Head, that you might have the Trouble only of refining &
  embellishing wth: additional Inrichments: of the general Arrangement,
  wch. you should think best for the whole; & of making the proper
  Transitions from Subject to Subject, wch. I account no inconsiderable
  Beauty (Ibid., pp. 289-90).

Finally on January 10, 1733, Theobald wrote Warburton: "I promise myself now shortly to sit
down upon ye fine Synopsis, wch. you so modestly call the Skeleton of Preface" (Ibid., p. 310).

It is clear from the foregoing that Theobald wrote most of the Preface topic by topic, and
probably followed the plan for the general structure as submitted by Warburton. Yet it is equally
clear that certain parts of the Preface, such as the contrast between Julius Caesar and Addison's
Cato, which Warburton later claimed as his and which Theobald omitted from his second edition,
were furnished Theobald as "additional Inrichments" (D.N. Smith, Eighteenth Century Essays
on Shakespeare, 1903, pp. xlviii-ix). When later a break did occur between the two men, neither
was free from blame. Theobald had asked and got so much help with the Preface that he should
have acknowledged the debt, no matter how naked it might have made him seem. Warburton, on
the other hand, had had honest warning that acknowledgement would not be made for this part
of his help; and if his synopsis were followed, as seems likely, his condemnation of the Preface
as "Theobald's heap of disjointed stuff" was disingenuous, to say the least. Far less defensible
was his assertion in the same letter to Thomas Birch that, apart from the section on Greek
texts, virtually the entire Preface was stitched together from notes which he had supplied
(Nichols, Illustrations, II, 81).

Three further points concerning the Preface demand mention. First, the section on Shakespeare's
life is often dismissed as a simple recension of Rowe's Life (1709). Actually, however, the
expansion itself is a characteristic example of Theobald's habit of exploring original sources.
(ed. S.H. Monk, Augustan Society Reprints, 1949, p. ii). To this statement Theobald adds plentiful
detail drawn from the same Stratford records, from tombs in the Stratford Church, and from
documents in the Heralds' Office connected with the coat of arms obtained for the playwright's
father. Such typical expansions were the result of conscientious research.

Second, all critics have agreed to condemn the digression in which Theobald advertised his
ability to emend Greek texts. Theobald himself was hesitant about including it lest he be indicted
for pedantry, but was encouraged to do so by Warburton, who later scoffed at what he had originally
admired. This much may be said in Theobald's behalf. Such a digression would not have seemed
irrelevant in an age which took its classical scholarship seriously; and such digressions,
arising naturally out of context and strategically placed before the conclusion, were not only
allowed but actually encouraged by classical rhetoricians like Cicero and Quintilian, whose
teachings were still standard in the English schools.

Finally, the Preface exists in two forms. The later and shorter form was that designed for
Theobald's second edition (1740), which omits all passages presumably contributed by Warburton
and more besides, the section on Greek texts, and the list of acknowledgements to contemporary
Shakespearian enthusiasts. This abridged form has been frequently reprinted. From a copy in
the University of Michigan Library the original Preface is here reproduced for the first time.

    Hugh G. Dick
    University of California,
    Los Angeles

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

                      The
                     WORKS
                       of
                 SHAKESPEARE:

                       in
                 Seven Volumes.

Collated with the Oldest Copies, and Corrected;
     With NOTES, Explanatory, and Critical:

               By Mr. THEOBALD.

I, Decus, i, nostrum: melioribus utere Fatis.
    Virg.

                   LONDON:
    Printed for A. Bettesworth and C. Hitch,
         J. Tonson, F. Clay, W. Feales,
               and R. Wellington.

                  MDCCXXXIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

                      THE

                    PREFACE.

I confess, I don’t conceive the Difference betwixt Ingeniô and Geniô in the first Verse. He
was a Sampson in Strength, but he suffer’d some such Dalilah to give him up to the Philistines.

As I have mention’d the Sweetness of his Disposition, I am tempted to make a Reflexion or two
on a Sentiment of his, which, I am persuaded, came from the Heart.

  The Man, that hath no Musick in himself,
  Nor is not mov’d with Concord of sweet Sounds,
  Is fit for Treasons, Stratagems, and Spoils:
  The Motions of his Spirit are dull as Night,
  And his Affections dark as Erebus:
  Let no such Man be trusted.----

    [Sidenote: A Lover of Musick.]

Shakespeare was all Openness, Candour, and Complacence; and had such a Share of Harmony in
his Frame and Temperature, that we have no Reason to doubt, from a Number of fine Passages,
Allusions, Similies, &c. fetch’d from Musick, but that He was a passionate Lover of it. And
to this, perhaps, we may owe that great Number of Sonnets, which are sprinkled thro’ his Plays.
I have found, that the Stanza’s sung by the Gravedigger in Hamlet, are not of Shakespeare’s
own Composition, but owe their Original to the old Earl of Surrey’s Poems. Many other of his
Occasional little Songs, I doubt not, but he purposely copied from his Contemporary Writers;
sometimes, out of Banter; sometimes, to do them Honour. The Manner of their Introduction, and
the Uses to which he has assigned them, will easily determine for which of the Reasons they
are respectively employ’d. In As you like it, there are several little Copies of Verses on
Rosalind, which are said to be the right Butter-woman’s Rank to Market, and the very false
Gallop of Verses. Dr. Thomas Lodge, a Physician who flourish’d early in Queen Elizabeth’s Reign,
and was a great Writer of the Pastoral Songs and Madrigals, which were so much the Strain of
those Times, composed a whole Volume of Poems in Praise of his Mistress, whom he calls Rosalinde.
I never yet could meet with this Collection; but whenever I do, I am persuaded, I shall find
many of our Author’s Canzonets on this Subject to be Scraps of the Doctor’s amorous Muse: as,
perhaps, those by Biron too, and the other Lovers in Love’s Labour’s lost, may prove to be.

It has been remark’d in the Course of my Notes, that Musick in our Author’s time had a very
different Use from what it has now. At this Time, it is only employ’d to raise and inflame
the Passions; it, then, was apply’d to calm and allay all kinds of Perturbations. And, agreeable
to this Observation, throughout all Shakespeare’s Plays, where Musick is either actually used,
or its Powers describ’d, it is chiefly said to be for these Ends. His Twelfth-Night, particularly,
begins with a fine Reflexion that admirably marks its soothing Properties.

    [Sidenote*: Milton an Imitator of him.]

This Similitude is remarkable not only for the Beauty of the Image that it presents, but likewise
for the Exactness to the Thing compared. This is a way of Teaching peculiar to the Poets; that,
when they would describe the Nature of any thing, they do it not by a direct Enumeration of
its Attributes or Qualities, but by bringing something into Comparison, and describing those
Qualities of it that are of the Kind with those in the Thing compared. So, here for instance,
the Poet willing to instruct in the Properties of Musick, in which the same Strains have a
Power to excite Pleasure, or Pain, according to that State of Mind the Hearer is then in, does
it by presenting the Image of a sweet South Wind blowing o’er a Violet-bank; which wafts away
the Odour of the Violets, and at the same time communicates to it its own Sweetness: by This
insinuating, that affecting Musick, tho’ it takes away the natural sweet Tranquillity of the
Mind, yet, at the same time, communicates a Pleasure the Mind felt not before. This Knowledge,
of the same Objects being capable of raising two contrary Affections, is a Proof of no ordinary
Progress in the Study of human Nature. *The general Beauties of those two Poems of MILTON,
intitled, L’Allegro and Il Pensoroso, are obvious to all Readers, because the Descriptions
are the most poetical in the World; yet there is a peculiar Beauty in those two excellent Pieces,
that will much enhance the Value of them to the more capable Readers; which has never, I think,
been observ’d. The Images, in each Poem, which he raises to excite Mirth and Melancholy, are
exactly the same, only shewn in different Attitudes. Had a Writer, less acquainted with Nature,
given us two Poems on these Subjects, he would have been sure to have sought out the most contrary
Images to raise these contrary Passions. And, particularly, as Shakespeare, in the Passage
I am now commenting, speaks of these different Effects in Musick; so Milton has brought it
into each Poem as the Exciter of each Affection: and lest we should mistake him, as meaning
that different Airs had this different Power, (which every Fidler is proud to have you understand,)
He gives the Image of those self-same Strains that Orpheus used to regain Eurydice, as proper
both to excite Mirth and Melancholy. But Milton most industriously copied the Conduct of our
Shakespeare, in Passages that shew’d an intimate Acquaintance with Nature and Science. If he
was not acquainted with the Rule as deliver’d by Horace, his own admirable Genius pierc’d into
the Necessity of such a Rule.

  ----Servetur ad imum
  Qualis ab incœpto processerit, & sibi constet.

For what can be more ridiculous, than, in our modern Writers, to make a debauch’d young Man,
immers’d in all the Vices of his Age and Time, in a few hours take up, confine himself in the
way of Honour to one Woman, and moralize in good earnest on the Follies of his past Behaviour?
Nor can, that great Examplar of Comic Writing, Terence be altogether excused in this Regard;
who, in his Adelphi, has left Demea in the last Scenes so unlike himself: whom, as Shakespeare
expresses it, he has turn’d with the seamy Side of his Wit outward. This Conduct, as Errors
are more readily imitated than Perfections, Beaumont and Fletcher seem to have follow’d in
a Character in their Scornful Lady. It may be objected, perhaps, by some who do not go to the
Bottom of our Poet’s Conduct, that he has likewise transgress’d against the Rule himself, by
making Prince Harry at once, upon coming to the Crown, throw off his former Dissoluteness,
and take up the Practice of a sober Morality and all the kingly Virtues. But this would be
a mistaken Objection. The Prince’s Reformation is not so sudden, as not to be prepar’d and
expected by the Audience. He gives, indeed, a Loose to Vanity, and a light unweigh’d Behaviour,
when he is trifling among his dissolute Companions; but the Sparks of innate Honour and true
Nobleness break from him upon every proper Occasion, where we would hope to see him awake to
Sentiments suiting his Birth and Dignity. And our Poet has so well, and artfully, guarded his
Character from the Suspicions of habitual and unreformable Profligateness; that even from the
first shewing him upon the Stage, in the first Part of Henry IV, when he made him consent to
join with Falstaffe in a Robbery on the Highway, he has taken care not to carry him off the
Scene, without an Intimation that he knows them all, and their unyok’d Humour; and that, like
the Sun, he will permit them only for a while to obscure and cloud his Brightness; then break
thro’ the Mist, when he pleases to be himself again; that his Lustre, when wanted, may be the
more wonder’d at.

Another of Shakespeare’s grand Touches of Nature, and which lies still deeper from the Ken
of common Observation, has been taken notice of in a Note upon The Tempest; where Prospero
at once interrupts the Masque of Spirits, and starts into a sudden Passion and Disorder of
Mind. As the latent Cause of his Emotion is there fully inquir’d into, I shall no farther dwell
upon it here.

Such a Conduct in a Poet (as Shakespeare has manifested on many like Occasions;) where the
Turn of Action arises from Reflexions of his Characters, where the Reason of it is not express’d
in Words, but drawn from the inmost Resources of Nature, shews him truly capable of that Art,
which is more in Rule than Practice: Ars est celare Artem. An exquisite fine Instance of this
Kind occurs in Lear, where that old King, hasty and intemperate in his Passions, coming to
his Son and Daughter Cornwall, is told by the Earl of Gloucester that they are not to be spoken
with: and thereupon throws himself into a Rage, supposing the Excuse of Sickness and Weariness
in them to be a purpos’d Contempt: Gloucester begs him to think of the fiery and unremoveable
Quality of the Duke: and This, which was design’d to qualify his Passion, serves to exaggerate
the Transports of it.

As the Conduct of Prince Henry in the first Instance, the secret and mental Reflexions in the
Case of Prospero, and the instant Detour of Lear from the Violence of Rage to a Temper of Reasoning,
do so much Honour to that surprizing Knowledge of human Nature, which is certainly our Author’s
Masterpiece, I thought, they could not be set in too good a Light.

    [Sidenote*: Mr. Addison and He compared, on a similar Topick.]

I shall dismiss the Examination into these his latent Beauties, when I have made a short Comment
upon a remarkable Passage from Julius Cæsar, which is inexpressibly fine in its self, *and
greatly discovers our Author’s Knowledge and Researches into Nature.

That nice Critick Dionysius of Halicarnassus confesses, that he could not find those great
Strokes, which he calls the terrible Graces, in any of the Historians, which he frequently
met with in Homer. I believe, the Success would be the same likewise, if we sought for them
in any other of our Authors besides our British HOMER, Shakespeare. This Description of the
Condition of Conspirators has a Pomp and Terror in it, that perfectly astonishes. Our excellent
Mr. Addison, whose Modesty made him sometimes diffident in his own Genius, but whose exquisite
Judgment always led him to the safest Guides, as we may see by those many fine Strokes in his
Cato borrow’d from the Philippics of Cicero, has paraphrased this fine Description; but we
are no longer to expect those terrible Graces, which he could not hinder from evaporating in
the Transfusion.

  O think, what anxious Moments pass between
  The Birth of Plots, and their last fatal Periods.
  Oh, ’tis a dreadful Interval of Time,
  Fill’d up with Horror all, and big with Death.

I shall observe two Things on this fine Imitation: first, that the Subjects of these two Conspiracies
being so very different, (the Fortunes of Cæsar and the Roman Empire being concern’d in the
First; and That of only a few Auxiliary Troops, in the other;) Mr. Addison could not with Propriety
bring in that magnificent Circumstance, which gives the terrible Grace to Shakespeare’s Description.

  The Genius and the mortal Instruments
  Are then in Council.----

For Kingdoms, in the poetical Theology, besides their good, have
their evil Genius’s likewise: represented here with the most
daring Stretch of Fancy, as fitting in Council with the Conspirators,
whom he calls the mortal Instruments. But this Would have been
too great an Apparatus to the Rape, and Desertion, of Syphax, and
Sempronius. Secondly, The other Thing very observable is, that Mr.
Addison was so warm’d and affected with the Fire of Shakespeare’s
Description; that, instead of copying his Author’s Sentiments, he
has, before he was aware, given us only the Image of his own
Impressions on the reading his great Original.
  ----the State of Man,
  Like to a little Kingdom, suffers then
  The Nature of an Insurrection.

Comparing the Mind of a Conspirator to an Anarchy, is just and beautiful; but the Interim to
a hideous Dream has something in it so wonderfully natural, and lays the human Soul so open,
that one cannot but be surpriz’d, that any Poet, who had not himself been, some time or other,
engaged in a Conspiracy, could ever have given such Force of Colouring to Truth and Nature.
For Instance, in his Timon, he turns Athens, which was a perfect Democracy, into an Aristocracy;
while he ridiculously gives a Senator the Power of banishing Alcibiades. On the contrary, in
Coriolanus, he makes Rome, which at that time was a perfect Aristocracy, a Democracy full as
ridiculously, by making the People choose Coriolanus Consul: Whereas, in Fact, it was not till
the Time of Manlius Torquatus, that the People had a Right of choosing one Consul. This, then,
was the Condition of the English Tongue when Shakespeare took it up: like a Beggar in a rich
Wardrobe. He found the pure native English too cold and poor to second the Heat and Abundance
of his Imagination: and therefore was forc’d to dress it up in the Robes, he saw provided for
it: rich in themselves, but ill-shaped; cut out to an air of Magnificence, but disproportion’d
and cumbersome. To the Costliness of Ornament, he added all the Graces and Decorum of it. It
may be said, this did not require, or discover a Knowledge of the Latin. To the first, I think,
it did not; to the second, it is so far from discovering it, that, I think, it discovers the
contrary. To make This more obvious by a modern Instance: The great MILTON likewise labour’d
under the like Inconvenience; when he first set upon adorning his own Tongue, he likewise animated
and enrich’d it with the Latin, but from his own Stock: and so, rather by bringing in the Phrases,
than the Words: And This was natural; and will, I believe, always be the Case in the same Circumstances.
His Language, especially his Prose, is full of Latin Words indeed, but much fuller of Latin
Phrases: and his Mastery in the Tongue made this unavoidable. On the contrary, Shakespeare,
who, perhaps, was not so intimately vers’d in the Language, abounds in the Words of it, but
has few or none of its Phrases: Nor, indeed, if what I affirm be true, could He. This I take
to be the truest Criterion to determine this long agitated Question.

It may be mention’d, tho’ no certain Conclusion can be drawn from it, as a probable Argument
of his having read the Antients; that He perpetually expresses the Genius of Homer, and other
great Poets of the Old World, in animating all the Parts of his Descriptions; and, by bold
and breathing Metaphors and Images, giving the Properties of Life and Action to inanimate Things.
He is a Copy too of those Greek Masters in the infinite use of compound and de-compound Epithets.
I will not, indeed, aver, but that One with Shakespeare’s exquisite Genius and Observation
might have traced these glaring Characteristics of Antiquity by reading Homer in Chapman’s
Version. He has attack’d him like an unhandy Slaughterman; and not lopp’d off the Errors, but
the Poet. Were it every where the true Text, which That Editor in his late pompous Edition
gave us, the Poet deserv’d not the large Encomiums bestow’d by him: nor, in that Case, is Rymer’s
Censure of the Barbarity of his Thoughts, and the Impropriety of his Expressions, groundless.
For there ever have been, and ever will be in Playhouses, a Set of assuming Directors, who
know better than the Poet himself the Connexion and Dependance of his Scenes; where Matter
is defective, or Superfluities to be retrench’d; Persons, that have the Fountain of Inspiration
as peremptorily in them, as Kings have That of Honour.

But because the Art of Criticism, both by Those who cannot form a true Judgment of its Effects,
nor can penetrate into its Causes, (which takes in a great Number besides the Ladies;) is esteem’d
only an arbitrary capricious Tyranny exercis’d on Books; I think proper to subjoin a Word or
two about those Rules on which I have proceeded, and by which I have regulated myself in this
Edition. By This, I flatter myself, it will appear, my Emendations are so far from being arbitrary
or capricious, that They are establish’d with a very high Degree of moral Certainty. Whenever
Words are depraved, the Sense of course must be corrupted; and thence the Readers betray’d
into a false Meaning. Tho’ I should be convicted of Pedantry by some, I’ll venture to subjoin
a few flagrant Instances, in which I have observed most Learned Men have suffer’d themselves
to be deceived, and consequently led their Readers into Error: and This for want of the Help
of Literal Criticism: in some, thro’ Indolence and Inadvertence: in others, perhaps, thro’
an absolute Contempt of It. If the Subject may seem to invite this Digression, I hope, the
Use and Application will serve to excuse it.

    [Sidenote: Platonius corrected.]

I. In that golden Fragment, which we have left of Platonius, upon the three Kinds of Greek
Comedy, after he has told us, that when the State of Athens was alter’d from a Democracy to
an Oligarchy, and that the Poets grew cautious whom they libell’d in their Comedies; when the
People had no longer any Desire to choose the accustom’d Officers for furnishing Choric Singers,
and defraying the Expence of them, Aristophanes brought on a Play in which there was no Chorus.
For, subjoins He, τῶν γὰρ ΧΟΡΕΥΤΩΝ μὴ χειροτονουμένων, καὶ τῶν ΧΟΡΗΓΩΝ οὐκ ἐχόντων τὰς τροφὰς,
ὑπεξῃρέθη τῆς Κωμῳδίας τὰ χορικὰ μέλη, καὶ τῶν ὑποθέσεων ὁ τρόπος μετεβλήθη. “The Chorus-Singers
being no longer chosen by Suffrage, and the Furnishers of the Chorus no longer having their
Maintenance, the Choric Songs were taken out of Comedies, and the Nature of the Argument and
Fable chang’d.” But there happen to be two signal Mistakes in this short Sentence. For the
Chorus-Singers were never elected by Suffrage at all, but hir’d by the proper Officer who was
at the Expence of the Chorus: and the Furnishers of the Chorus had never either Table, or Stipend,
allowed them, towards their Charge. To what Purpose then is this Sentence, which should be
a Deduction from the Premises, and yet is none, brought in? Or how comes the Reasoning to be
founded upon what was not the Fact? The Mistake manifestly arises from a careless Transposition
made in the Text: Let the two Greek Words, which I have distinguished by Capitals, only change
Places, and we recover what Platonius meant to infer: “That the [A]Furnishers of Chorus’s being
no longer elected by Suffrage, and the [B]Chorus-Singers having no Provision made for them,
Chorus’s were abolished, and the Subjects of Comedies alter’d.”

    [Footnote A: Χορηγῶν.]
    [Footnote B: Χορευτῶν.]

II. There is another more egregious Error still subsisting in this instructive Fragment, which
has likewise escaped the Notice of the Learned. The Author is saying, that, in the old Comedy,
the Masks were made so nearly to resemble the Persons to be satirized, that before the Actor
spoke a Word, it was known whom he was to personate. But, in the New Comedy, when Athens was
conquered by the Macedonians, and the Poets were fearful lest their Masks should be construed
to resemble any of their New Governors, they formed them so preposterously as only to move
Laughter; ὁρῶμεν γοῦν (says He) τὰς ὀφρῦς ἐν τοῖς προσώποις τῆς Μενάνδρου κωμῳδίας ὁποίας ἔχει,
καὶ ὅπως ἐξεστραμμένον τὸ ΣΩΜΑ. καὶ οὐδε κατὰ ἀνθρώπων φύσιν. “We see therefore what strange
Eyebrows there are to the Masks used in Menander’s Comedies; and how the Body is distorted,
and unlike any human Creature alive.” But the Author, ’tis evident, is speaking abstractedly
of Masks; and what Reference has the Distortion of the Body to the Look of a Visor? I am satisfied,
Platonius wrote; καὶ ὅπως ἐξεστραμμένον τὸ ὌΜΜΑ, i.e. “and how the Eyes were goggled and distorted.”
This is to the Purpose of his Subject: and Jul. Pollux, in describing the Comic Masques, speaks
of some that had ΣΤΡΕΒΛΟΝ τὸ ὌΜΜΑ: Others, that were ΔΙΑΣΤΡΟΦΟΙ τὴν ὌΨΙΝ. PERVERSIS oculis,
as Cicero calls them, speaking of Roscius.

    [Sidenote: Camerarius and Keuster, mistaken.]

III. Suidas, in the short Account that he has given us of Sophocles, tells us, that, besides
Dramatic Pieces, he wrote Hymns and Elegies; καὶ λόγον καταλογάδην περὶ τοῦ Χοροῦ πρὸς Θέσπιν
καὶ Χοίριλον ἀγωνιζόμενος. This the Learned Camerarius has thus translated: Scripsit Oratione
solutâ de Choro contra Thespin & Chœrilum quempiam. And Keuster likewise understood, and render’d,
the Passage to the same Effect. He owns, the Place is obscure, and suspected by him. “For how
could Sophocles contend with Thespis and Chœrilus, who liv’d long before his Time?” The Scholiast
upon [C]Aristophanes, however, expresly says, as Keuster might have remember’d, that Sophocles
actually did contend with Chœrilus. But that is a Point nothing to the Passage in Question;
which means, as I have shewn in another Place, That Sophocles declaimed in Prose, contending
to obtain a Chorus for reviving some Pieces of Thespis and Chœrilus. Is This contending against
Them, as rival Poets?

    [Footnote C: In Ranis, v. 73.]

    [Sidenote: Meursius, and Camerarius mistaken.]

IV. Some other Learned Men have likewise been mistaken in Particulars with regard to Sophocles.
In the Synopsis of his Life, we find these Words; Τελευτᾶ δὲ μετὰ Ἐυριπίδην ἐτῶν ϛ’. Meursius,
as well as Camerarius, have expounded This, as if Sophocles surviv’d Euripides six Years. But
the best Accounts agree that they died both in the same Year, a little before the Frogs of
Aristophanes was play’d; scil. Olymp. 93, 3. The Meaning, therefore, of the Passage is, as
some of the Commentators have rightly observ’d; That Sophocles died after Euripides, at 90
Years of Age. The Mistake arose from hence, that, in Numerals, ϛʹ signifies as well 6 as 90.

    [Sidenote: Father Brumoy mistaken.]

V. The Learned Father Brumoy too, who has lately given us three Volumes upon the Theatre of
the Greeks, has slipt into an Error about Sophocles; for, speaking of his Antigone, he tells
us, it was in such Request as to be perform’d Two and Thirty times; Elle fût representée trente
deux fois. The Account, on which This is grounded, we have from the Argument prefix’d to Antigone
by Aristophanes the Grammarian: and the Latin Translator of this Argument, probably, led Father
Brumoy into his Mistake, and he should have referr’d to the Original. The Greek Words are;
λέλεκται δὲ τὸ δρᾶμα τοῦτο τριακοστὸν δεύτερον. i. e. “This Play is said to have been the Thirty
Second, in Order of Time, produced by Sophocles.”

The Mistakes, that I have mentioned, (tho’ they necessarily lead into Error, from the Authority
with which they come into the World;) yet are such, ’tis obvious, as have been the Effects
of Inadvertence; and therefore I do not quote them to the Dishonour of their Learned Authors.
I shall point out Two or Three, which seem to have sprung from another Source: either a due
Want of Sagacity, or an absolute Neglect of literal Criticism.

    [Sidenote: Sir George Wheler corrected.]

VI. Sir George Wheler, who, in his JOURNEY into GREECE, has traded much with Greek Antiquities
and Inscriptions, and who certainly was no mean Scholar, has shewn himself very careless in
this Respect. When he was at Sardis, he met with a Medal of the Emperor Commodus seated in
the Midst of the Zodiack with Celestial Signs engraven on it; and, on the other Side, a Figure
with a Crown-Mure with these Letters about it, Σάρδις Ἀσίας, ΑΥΔΙΑΣ, Ἕλλαδος, ᾱ μητρόπολις:
Sardis, the first Metropolis of Asia, Greece, and Audia.--But where and what Audia was, (says
He) I find not. Now is it not very strange, that this Gentleman should not remember, that Sardis
was the Capital City of Lydia; and, consequently, that for ΑΥΔΙΑΣ we should read ΛΥΔΊΑΣ? Tho’
my Correction is too obvious to want any Justification, yet, I find, it has One from the Learned
Father [D]Harduin; who produces another Coin of Sardis (in the French King’s Cabinet) which
bears the very same Inscription, only exhibited as it ought to be.

    [Footnote D: In his Nummi Antiqui illustrati.]

Nor was This a single Inaccuracy in Sir George. I’ll instance in Two pretty Inscriptions, the
One an Epitaph, the other a Votive Table, which He has given Us, but in a very corrupt Condition.
Tho’ I have never been in Greece, nor seen the Inscriptions any where but in his Book, I think,
I can restore them to their true Sense and Numbers: And, as they are particularly elegant,
some Readers will not be displeas’d to see them in a State of Purity.

    [Sidenote: An Epitaph corrected and explained.]

VII. Of the Antiquities of Philadelphia (says he) I had but a slender Account; only I have
the Copy of one Inscription, being the Monument of a Virgin, in these three Couplets of Verses.
But she was so far from being a Virgin, that the Epitaph shews her to have been a Wife; that
it was put up in Memory of Her by her Husband; and that she dy’d in the Flower of her Youth
at the Age of twenty three.

  Ξαντίππην Ἀκύλα μνήμην [1]βίου παρέδωκην
    Βωμῷ [2]τειμήσας σεμνω ταυτην ἄλοχον‧
  Παρθένον ἧς ἀπέλυσε μίτρην ΗΣΔΡΙΟΝ ἄνθοσ.
    Ἔσκεν ἐν ἡμιτελεῖ παυσαμενον θαλάμῳ.
  Τρεῖς γαρ ἐπ᾽ εἰκοσίους τελεῶσε [3]βιον ἐνιαυτοὺς,
    Καὶ μετὰ τούσδε θάνεν [4]τουτου λιπουσαφαος.

  [Notes:
    1 βιότου παρέδωκεν.
    2 τιμήσας σεμνοτάτην.
    3 βιοῦσ᾽.
    4 τοῦτο λιποῦσα φάος. ]

I have, for Brevity’s sake, mark’d the general Corrections, which I have made, at the Side.
The third Verse is neither true in Quantity, nor Language: ΗΣΔΡΙΟΝ is a Monster of a Word,
which never could be the Reading of any Marble. As I correct it, we recover a most beautiful
Couplet.

  Παρθένον, ἧς ἀπέλυσε μίτρην‧ ἯΣ ἨΡΙΝΌΝ ἄνθος.
  Ἔσκεν ἐν ἡμιτελεῖ παυσάμενον θαλάμῳ.

  Puellam, cujus Zonam solvit; cujus VERNUS Flos
  Præproperô tabuit in Thalamô.

    [Sidenote: A Votive Table corrected.]

VIII. I come now to the Votive Table, which is rich in poetick Graces, however overwhelm’d
with Depravation: and Sir George seems as much to have mistaken the Purport, as the Words,
of the Inscription. At Chalcedon, says he, I found an Inscription in the Wall of a private
House near the Church; which signifieth, that Evante, the Son of Antipater, having made a prosperous
Voyage, and desiring to return by the Ægean Sea, offered Cakes at a Statue, which he had erected
to Jupiter, which had sent him such good Weather, as a Token of his good Voyage.

[1]ΟΥΡΙΟΝ ἐπὶ [2]ΠΡΙΜΝΗΣ τις ὁδηγητῆρα καλείτω, Ζῆνα κατὰ [3]πρωτΟΝ ΩΝιστιον ἐκπετάσας [4]ΕΠΙ
ΚΥΑΝΕΑΣ ΔΙΝΑΣ ΔΡΟΜΟΥΣ ἔνθα Ποσειδῶν Καμπύλον εἰλίσσει κῦμα παρὰ ψαμαθοῖς. Εἶτα κατ᾽ Αἰγαῖαν
πόντου πλάκα [5]ΝΑΣ ἐρεύνων, Νείσθω‧ τῷ δὲ [6]ΒΑΛΛΩΝ ψαιστὰ παρὰ [7]ΤΩ ΖΩΑΝΩ. [8]ΟΔΕ τὸν [9]ΕΥΑΝΤΗ
τὸν ἀεὶ θεὸν Ἀντιπάτρου παῖς Στησε [10]φιλων ἀγαθῆς σύμβολον εὐπλοΐης.

  [Notes:
    1 Ὂυρον.
    2 πρύμνης.
    3 πρώτων, ἱστίον.
    4 Κυανεαῖς δίνησιν ἐπίδρομον.
    5 Νόστον.
    6 βαλών.
    7 ξοάνῳ
    8 Ἐσδέ.
    9 εὐανθῆ.
   10 Φίλων. ]

I have mark’d, as before, my Corrections at the Side; and I may venture to say, I have supported
the faltring Verses both with Numbers and Sense. But who ever heard of Evante, as the Name
of a Man, in Greece? Neither is this Inscription a Piece of Ethnic Devotion, as Sir George
has suppos’d it, to a Statue erected to Jupiter: On the contrary, it despises those fruitless
Superstitions. Philo (a Christian, as it seems to me;) sets it up, in Thanks for a safe Voyage,
to the true God. That all my Readers may equally share in this little Poem, I have attempted
to put it into an English Dress.

  Invoke who Will the prosp’rous Gale behind,
  Jove at the Prow, while to the guiding Wind
  O’er the blue Billows he the Sail expands,
  Where Neptune with each Wave heaps Hills of Sands:
  Then let him, when the Surge he backward plows,
  Pour to his Statue-God unaiding Vows:
  But to the God of Gods, for Deaths o’erpast,
  For Safety lent him on the watry Waste,
  To native Shores return’d, thus Philo pays
  His Monument of Thanks, of grateful Praise.

I shall have no Occasion, I believe, to ask the Pardon of some Readers for these Nine last
Pages; and Others may be so kind to pass them over at their Pleasure. (Those Discoveries, which
give Light and Satisfaction to the truly Learned, I must confess, are Darkness and Mystery
to the less capable: Φέγγος μὲν ξυνετοῖς, ἀξυνετοῖς δ᾽ Ἐρεβος.) Nor will they be absolutely
foreign, I hope, to a Preface in some Measure critical; especially, as it could not be amiss
to shew, that I have read other Books with the same Accuracy, with which I profess to have
read Shakespeare. Besides, I design’d this Inference from the Defence of Literal Criticism.

    [Sidenote: The Delay of this Edition excused.]

Having now run thro’ all those Points, which I intended should make any Part of this Dissertation,
it only remains, that I should account to the Publick, but more particularly to my Subscribers,
why they have waited so long for this Work; that I should make my Acknowledgments to those
Friends, who have been generous Assistants to me in the conducting it: and, lastly, that I
should acquaint my Readers what Pains I have myself taken to make the Work as complete, as
faithful Industry, and my best Abilities, could render it.

In the middle of the Year 1728, I first put out my Proposals for
publishing only Emendations and Remarks on our Poet: and I had
not gone on many Months in this Scheme, before I found it to be the
unanimous Wish of those who did me the Honour of their Subscriptions,
that I would give them the Poet’s Text corrected; and that I would
subjoin those Explanatory Remarks, which I had purpos’d to publish
upon the Foot of my first Proposals. Earnest Sollicitations were
made to me, that I would think of such an Edition; which I had as
strong Desires to listen to: and some noble Persons then, whom I
have no Privilege to name, were pleased to interest themselves so
far in the Affair, as to propose to Mr. Tonson his undertaking an
Impression of Shakespeare with my Corrections. The throwing my
whole Work into a different Form, to comply with this Proposal, was
not the slightest Labour: and so no little Time was unavoidably
lost. While the Publication of my Remarks was thus respited, my
Enemies took an unfair Occasion to suggest, that I was extorting
Money from my Subscribers, without ever designing to give them
any Thing for it: an Insinuation levell’d at once to wound me
 Reputation and Interest. Conscious, however, of my own just
Intentions, and labouring all the while to bring my wish’d Purpose
to bear, I thought these anonymous Slanderers worthy of no Notice.
A Justification of myself would have been giving them Argument for
fresh Abuse; and I was willing to believe that any unkind Opinions,
entertain’d to my Prejudice, would naturally drop and lose their
Force, when the Publick should once be convinc’d that I was in
Earnest, and ready to do them Justice. I left no Means untry’d
to put it in my Power to do this: and I hope, without Breach of
Modesty, I may venture to appeal to all candid Judges, whether I
have not employ’d all my Power to be just to them in the Execution
of my Task. I must needs have been in the most Pain, who saw myself
daily so barbarously outraged. I might have taken advantage of
the favourable Impressions entertain’d of my Work, and hurried it
crudely into the World: But I have suffer’d, for my Author’s sake,
those Impressions to cool, and perhaps, be lost; and can now appeal
only to the Judgment of the Publick. If I succeed in this Point,
the Reputation gain’d will be the more solid and lasting.

    [Sidenote: Acknowledgment of Assistance.]

I come now to speak of those kind Assistances which I have met with from particular Friends,
towards forwarding and compleating this Work. Soon after my Design was known, I had the Honour
of an Invitation to Cambridge; and a generous Promise from the Learned and ingenious Dr. Thirlby
of Jesus-College, there, who had taken great Pains with my Author, that I should have the Liberty
of collating his Copy of Shakespeare, mark’d thro’ in the Margin with his own Manuscript References
and accurate Observations. He not only made good this Promise, but favour’d me with a Set of
Emendations, interspers’d and distinguish’d in his Name thro’ the Edition, and which can need
no Recommendation here to the judicious Reader.

The next Assistance I receiv’d was from my ingenious Friend Hawley Bishop Esq; whose great
Powers and extensive Learning are as well known, as his uncommon Modesty, to all who have the
Happiness of his Acquaintance. This Gentleman was so generous, at the Expence both of his Pocket
and Time, to run thro’ all Shakespeare with me. We join’d Business and Entertainment together;
and at every of our Meetings, which were constantly once a Week, we read over a Play, and came
mutually prepar’d to communicate our Conjectures upon it to each other. The Pleasure of these
Appointments, I think, I may say, richly compensated for the Labour in our own Thoughts: and
I may venture to affirm, in the Behalf of my Assistant, that our Author has deriv’d no little
Improvement from them. How great a share soever of Praise I must lose from my self, in confessing
these Assistances; and however my own poor Conjectures may be weaken’d by the Comparison with
theirs; I am very well content to sacrifice my Vanity to the Pride of being so assisted, and
the Pleasure of being just to their Merits. I beg leave to observe to my Readers, in one Word,
here, that from the Confession of these successive Aids, and the Manner in which I deriv’d
them, it appears, I have pretty well fill’d up the Interval, betwixt my first Proposals and
my Publication, with having my Author always in View, and at Heart.

Some Hints I have the Honour to owe to the Informations of Dr. Mead, and the late Dr. Friend:
Others to the Kindness of the ingenious Martin Folkes, Esq; who likewise furnish’d me with
the first folio Edition of Shakespeare, at a Time when I could not meet with it among the Booksellers;
as my obliging Friend Thomas Coxeter, Esq; did with several of the old 4to single Plays, which
I then had not in my own Collection. Some few Observations I likewise owe to F. Plumptree,
Esq; Others to the Favour of anonymous Persons: for all which I most gladly render my Acknowledgments.

    [Sidenote: The Editor’s particular Pains taken.]

As to what regards my self singly, if the Edition do not speak for the Pains I have taken about
it, it will be very vain to plead my own Labour and Diligence. Besides a faithful Collation
of all the printed Copies, which I have exhibited in my Catalogue of Editions at the End of
this Work; let it suffice to say, that, to clear up several Errors in the Historical Plays,
I purposely read over Hall and Holingshead’s Chronicles in the Reigns concern’d; all the Novels
in Italian, from which our Author had borrow’d any of his Plots; such Parts of Plutarch, from
which he had deriv’d any Parts of his Greek or Roman Story: Chaucer and Spenser’s Works; all
the Plays of B. Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher, and above 800 old English Plays, to ascertain
the obsolete and uncommon Phrases in him: Not to mention some Labour and Pains unpleasantly
spent in the dry Task of consulting Etymological Glossaries.

But as no Labour of Mine can be equivalent to the dear and ardent Love I bear for Shakespeare,
so, if the Publick shall be pleas’d to allow that He owes any Thing to my Willingness and Endeavours
of restoring Him; I shall reckon the Part of my Life so engag’d, to have been very happily
employ’d: and put Myself, with great Submission, to be try’d by my Country in the Affair.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

  The Editors of THE AUGUSTAN REPRINT SOCIETY

          are pleased to announce that

   THE WILLIAM ANDREWS CLARK MEMORIAL LIBRARY
  of The University of California, Los Angeles

will become the publisher of the Augustan Reprints in May, 1949. The editorial policy of the
Society will continue unchanged. As in the past, the editors will strive to furnish members
inexpensive reprints of rare seventeenth and eighteenth century works.

Publications for the fourth year (1949-1950)

(At least six items will be printed in the main from the following list)

SERIES IV: MEN, MANNERS, AND CRITICS

John Dryden, His Majesties Declaration Defended (1681) [#15074] Daniel Defoe (?), Vindication
of the Press (1718) [#14084] Critical Remarks on Sir Charles Grandison, Clarissa, and Pamela (1754)

SERIES V: DRAMA

Thomas Southerne, Oroonoko (1696) Mrs. Centlivre, The Busie Body (1709) Charles Johnson, Caelia
(1733) Charles Macklin, Man of the World (1781) [#14463]

SERIES VI: POETRY AND LANGUAGE

Andre Dacier, Essay on Lyric Poetry
Poems by Thomas Sprat
Poems by the Earl of Dorset
Samuel Johnson, Vanity of Human Wishes (1749), and one of the 1750
  Rambler papers. [#13350]

EXTRA SERIES:

Lewis Theobald, Preface to Shakespeare’s Works (1733)

A few copies of the early publications of the Society are still
available at the original rate. Richard Blackmore's Essay upon Wit (1716), and Addison’s
    Freeholder No. 45 (1716). (I, 1) [#13484]

 2. Samuel Cobb’s Of Poetry and Discourse on Criticism (1707).
    (II, 1) [#14528]

 3. Letter to A.H. Esq.; concerning the Stage (1698), and Richard
    Willis’ Occasional Paper No. IX (1698). (III, 1)

 4. Essay on Wit (1748), together with Characters by Flecknoe, and
    Joseph Warton’s Adventurer Nos. 127 and 133. (I, 2) [#14973]

 5. Samuel Wesley’s Epistle to a Friend Concerning Poetry (1700) and
    Essay on Heroic Poetry (1693). (II, 2)

 6. Representation of the Impiety and Immorality of the Stage (1704)
    and Some Thoughts Concerning the Stage (1704). (III, 2) [#15656]

Second Year (1947-1948)

 7. John Gay’s The Present State of Wit (1711); and a section on Wit
    from The English Theophrastus (1702). (I, 3) [#14800]

 8. Rapin’s De Carmine Pastorali, translated by Creech (1684). (II, 3)
    [#14495]

 9. T. Hanmer’s (?) Some Remarks on the Tragedy of Hamlet (1736).
    (III, 3) [#14899]

10. Corbyn Morris’ Essay towards Fixing the True Standards of Wit,
    etc. (1744). (I, 4) [#16233]

11. Thomas Purney’s Discourse on the Pastoral (1717). (II, 4) [#15313]

12. Essays on the Stage, selected, with an Introduction by Joseph Wood
    Krutch. (III, 4) [#16335]

Third Year (1948-1949)

13. Sir John Falstaff (pseud.), The Theatre (1720). (IV, 1) [#15999]

14. Edward Moore’s The Gamester (1753). (V, 1) [#16267]

15. John Oldmixon’s Reflections on Dr. Swift’s Letter to Harley
    (1712); and Arthur Mainwaring’s The British Academy (1712). (VI, 1)

16. Nevil Payne’s Fatal Jealousy (1673). (V, 2)

17. (Extra Series, 1) [#16275]

18. Aaron Hill’s Preface to The Creation; and Thomas Brereton’s
    Preface to Esther. (IV, 2) [#15870]

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

