On the morning of Monday, August 10, Ralegh finally entered the Tower. This time he was made
to feel that he was a prisoner indeed. He had meant to transport to France charts of Guiana,
the Orinoko, Nuova Regina, and Panama, with five assays of the ore of the Mine. They were on
him, and they were taken from him. He was stripped also of his trinkets, except a spleen stone.
This and an ounce of ambergris were left with him for his personal use. A gold picture-case
set with diamonds was, by his wish, consigned to the Lieutenant of the Tower. There were other
ornaments. Among them was a diamond ring, supposed by Naunton to have been a present from Queen
Elizabeth, though Ralegh told Sir Thomas Wilson he had never any such of the Queen's giving.
There were a Guiana idol of gold and copper, and sixty-three gold buttons with sparks of diamonds.
All these were entrusted to Stukely by the Lieutenant of the Tower. It would be strange if
some did not stay with their custodian. It may have been with reference to them that Ralegh
admitted the traitor to a last interview in the Lieutenant's lodgings on the Wednesday after
his committal. We may be sure it was not to affirm, as Stukely declared, that he 'loved him
as well as any friend he had in the world.'

[Sidenote: Examinations by Privy Councillors.]

More exalted persecutors than Stukely were now let loose upon him. The old game of 1603 was
resumed. Lords of the Council and the Law Officers of the Crown worked their hardest to discover
that he was a criminal. First on August 17, and twice afterwards, he was examined upon interrogatories
by a committee of the Privy Council, consisting of Lord Chancellor Bacon, Archbishop Abbot,
Lord Worcester, Coke, since November, 1616, no longer Chief Justice, Cæsar, and Naunton. The
examinations were not directed in a way either to do justice to the prisoner, or to elicit
the truth, so far as can be discovered from the records of them. Those among the Lords Commissioners
who desired something more than merely to extricate their master from a diplomatic difficulty,
were incapacitated by an invincible prejudice. All started by taking for granted that the prisoner
never intended to search for the Mine, that none existed, and that his single purpose since
he prepared for his expedition was to attack piratically the Spanish colonies and commerce.
Mr. Gardiner, who is one of his severest critics, acknowledges that they blundered and failed,
because they were not content to convict him of having cared simply to find the Mine, and been
reckless of the means.

James and his Ministers could convince themselves of the expediency and moral propriety of
slaying a man capable, as they believed, of schemes, however qualified, for the capture of
the Spanish treasure ships. They saw the difficulty of proving to the country the capital criminality
of the avowal of a project never acted upon. They had hoped they might fabricate supplementary
treasonable matter out of the communications between Ralegh and the French Agency. After a
long competition between a French and a Spanish family compact, the Spanish faction at Court,
which was James's own, was absolutely predominant. The Government did not shrink from offending
French susceptibilities. In September it arrested and repeatedly examined de Novion, whose
diplomatic character was not very definitive. Le Clerc, the resident Agent, was himself summoned
before the Council at Hampton Court, and confronted with de Novion. He stood upon his privilege,
and refused to answer. The Council solemnly rebuked him for his secret conferences with, and
offers of means of escape to, an English subject attainted of high treason, and since 'detected
in other heinous crimes.' He was informed he had forfeited, by the law of nations, his immunities,
and was required to confine himself to his house. The French Government was wrathful; but it
had a weak case. Its conduct, though its original advances to Ralegh had the sanction of the
English Ministers, was clearly a breach of diplomatic propriety. The proof against the Frenchmen
was of no use towards the end for which the Council laid stress on it. Ralegh, it was seen,
could not be accounted liable for overtures he had rejected. The Crown still was thrown back
on the chance of confessions by himself for a provision of assignable pretexts for his destruction.

[Sidenote: Pledges to Spain.]

In some way or other reasons had to be discovered. James saw the Infanta's dower of two million
crowns and jewels within his grasp. The Spanish Court showed the friendliest disposition. It
had expressed its delight at the welcome news of its enemy's capture in the act of flight,
and his committal again to the Tower. Nothing was wanting, James imagined, to crown the negotiations,
but an English head which he was very willing to sacrifice. He had given the Spanish Government
the option of a public execution either at Madrid or in London. It was impossible that he should
disappoint the agreeable expectation. At Court the will to put Ralegh to death was matter of
notoriety. The Queen's was the only voice raised loudly against it. They who were ignorant
how faded was her influence imagined her protest might still be of avail. On September 23,
Sir Edward Harwood wrote to Carleton, that Ralegh was struggling hard for life, and that, as
the King was now with the Queen, it was believed he might live. Courtiers in general knew better.
On August 29, Tyringham, another of Carleton's purveyors of news, wrote to him: 'It is said
that death will conclude Sir Walter Ralegh's troubles. The Queen's intercession will rather
defer than prevent his punishment.' Yet ways and means had to be provided, and the difficulty
grew rather than diminished, until it was decided to cut the knot. Harwood reported to Carleton
on October 3, that 'the King is much inclined to hang Ralegh; but it cannot handsomely be done;
and he is likely to live out his days.' As time went on, and the climax was not reached, the
gossip of the town, perhaps of the Court itself, spread a rumour that the delay was intentional.
Ralegh was said to have been promised his life if he would help towards revelations of the
misappropriation of crown jewels or lands at the King's accession, with the connivance of the
late Treasurers, Salisbury and Suffolk. The tale may have had some sort of basis in Ralegh's
habit of charging Cecil with an abuse of his position to his personal enrichment at the expense
of the Crown, from which he was alleged to have taken Hatfield by a profitable exchange, and
Cobham's escheated estates. No evidence exists that the question was ever seriously raised,
or had any connexion with the delay. Of that the one real cause was the inability of the Court
to elicit damning testimony against himself.

[Sidenote: Sir Thomas Wilson.]

To patch up the gaps in the inquiry before the Lords Commissioners, the same system was tried
as in the preliminary investigations of 1603. Ralegh was placed, from September 11 till October
15, under a special keeper. The keeper's business, like that of a Juge d'Instruction, was to
ransack him, and worry him into supplying a case against himself. For the office Sir Thomas
Wilson, Keeper of the State Paper Office, was chosen. As Wilson himself confessed, his arrival
produced an impression on the officers of the Tower as well as Ralegh, that 'a messenger of
death had been sent.' He had entered the public service as a spy of Cecil's. He was now enjoying
a pension for the intelligence he had collected in Spain concerning the Main and Bye Plots.
His defect in his new office was an excess of zeal in suspiciousness. He began by regarding
Ralegh as an arch hypocrite, and a lying impudent impostor, from whom the truth could be extracted
only by 'a rack, or a halter.' Though otherwise a man of some learning, and a diligent guardian
of the public records, he seems to have been very ignorant of physics. He thought Ralegh was
an empty boaster for his statement that he could distil salt-water into fresh by means of copper
furnaces. He treated his ailments, which Ralegh's somewhat hypochondriacal temperament may
have a little exaggerated, as wholly feigned, 'that he might not be thought in his health to
enterprise any such matter as perhaps he designeth.' Their symptoms, the swollen left side
and liver, the painful sores over his body, the ague-fits, his lameness from the Cadiz wound,
he conjectured were caused by the patient's own applications. With his wife to share his watch,
he was given absolute control. No person was to have speech with Ralegh, unless in his hearing.
The Council was to be told all he observed. He was cunning, though he was fond of enlarging
on his simple honesty. He had a high sense of his own importance, and magnified his very extensive
powers. He was furious with the door-keeper of the Council for delaying one day to carry in
a message from him while the Council was deliberating. He quarrelled with Sir Allen Apsley,
now Lieutenant of the Tower, for withholding the keys of Ralegh's apartment at night.

[Sidenote: The Apsleys.]

[Sidenote: 'Chemical Stuffs.']

Apsley, a near connexion by his third wife of Villiers, through whom he had been enabled to
buy his office, must have been an acquaintance of Ralegh's. He had served in the commissariat
department in the Cadiz expedition, and in Ireland. His second wife was niece, and almost adopted
daughter, of George Carew. On Ralegh's return to the Tower, his old lodgings in the Bloody
tower being tenanted by Lord and Lady Somerset, he was quartered in the Lieutenant's own house.
There he was sure of hospitable treatment, both on account of the past, and as one of the persons
eminent in learning and in arms, for whom, we are told, Sir Allen had a singular kindness.
He had the especial happiness of association there with the third Lady Apsley, the mother of
Lucy, afterwards the noble wife of Colonel Hutchinson. Lady Apsley was interested in physical
science. Mrs. Hutchinson has recorded how her mother, as well from curiosity as from her abounding
benignity, which made her desire that the illustrious prisoner should be comforted and diverted,
persuaded the less scientifically enlightened Sir Allen to tolerate his chemical investigations.
Sir Allen allowed her an income for herself of £300 a year. Among other good works on which
this 'mother' of the Tower spent her pin-money, was the payment of the cost of Ralegh's experiments.
According to Mrs. Hutchinson, herself a capable surgeon, Ralegh taught Lady Apsley in return
many valuable chemical prescriptions. After a time he was removed to good quarters in the Wardrobe
tower, looking over the Queen's garden. With that arrangement Wilson professed himself much
dissatisfied. He affected to apprehend communications between Ralegh and confederates outside.
Finally he had his way. Against the wishes of Apsley, as much as his own, Ralegh was transported
to a little upper room in the Brick tower. 'Though it seemeth nearer Heaven, yet,' wrote Wilson
to Naunton, 'there is there no means to escape but into Hell.' It had been occupied by his
servants when he was confined in that building for his offence of 1592. He was not allowed
now to have the attendance of his own valet. He was threatened with separation from the 'chemical
stuffs,' with which he loved constantly to drench himself from phials containing all spirits,
sneered ignorant Wilson, but the spirit of God. The Tower physician could not tell what they
were. He, and apparently Sir Allen Apsley too, at first apprehended another attempt at suicide.
They need not. Ralegh, landless, ruined, had no longer aught to gain by self-destruction for
his family. Apart from a sense of religious duty, he had every motive for reserving his head
for the block, for wishing to 'die in the light.' Wilson's employers might not have been sorry
had his view been different. Though sometimes the conversation turned on the topic of noble
Roman suicides, Ralegh showed no inclination to take his own life. Wilson said with a taunt
he did not abstain out of principle, but simply because he, who knew not what fear was, 'had
no such Roman courage.'

[Sidenote: Promises in the King's Name.]

It would be unfair to Wilson and to his confederate Naunton, who had hoped that the other would
'not long be troubled with that cripple,' to infer that they were disappointed at Ralegh's
reluctance to disembarrass the Court by self-murder of the trouble of him. There can be no
doubt of the dishonesty of the devices Wilson adopted to secure him for the block. He tempted
him with mendaciously ambiguous declarations that, if he disclosed all he knew, the King would
forgive him, and do him all kindness. Wilson, James, and Naunton were engaged in a common conspiracy,
that the first, without directly pledging the royal word to a grant of grace, should coax from
Ralegh a confession by allowing him to fancy such a pledge had been given. Naunton's rebukes,
as well as Wilson's own avowals to him, indicate that Wilson all but positively bound the King.
He need scarcely have resorted to falsehoods, which did not impose upon his prisoner. Ralegh's
experience of the King's justice and clemency had been too long and intimate for him to be
deluded by a Sir Thomas Wilson. Though he had a right to tax the King with promises given in
the King's name, he did not hope, he told Wilson, thus to save his life. 'He knew that the
more he confessed, the sooner he should be hanged.' But he was not unwilling to talk and write.
He wished, absurd as seemed to Wilson his pretension to such a possession, 'to discharge his
conscience in all things to his Majesty.' He rejoiced besides in an opportunity for clearing
up obscurities in his career. Ultimately he grew reserved with Wilson, as may easily be understood.
At first, before he had thoroughly gauged his companion, he conversed freely. He discoursed
almost too freely and fully for Wilson's ability to condense the whole into a narrative which
would be plausible enough to give the King a sense that they were on the verge of real discoveries.
Wilson complained to Naunton that he often tried to gain information by talking on matters
which might lead to it.

[Sidenote: Apology for Flight.]

From the Tower, though one biographer believes it was from Devonshire, he wrote to the King,
asking why it should be lawful for Spaniards to murder thirty-six Englishmen, tying them back
to back, and then cutting their throats, yet be unlawful for Englishmen--'O miserable English!
O miserable Ralegh!--to repel force by force.' The Spanish atrocities are not disputed. The
strange thing is that historians who condemn Ralegh's alleged violence to Spaniards never seem
to suppose he was really resentful of them. They treat his indignation as factitious. Another
letter he appears, at Wilson's instigation, to have written to the King on September 17 or
18, which has been lost or suppressed. In it, from an indorsement, dated September 19, on Wilson's
covering letter, it seems that he asked for an examination of one Christofero, the Governor
of Guiana's mulatto valet, whom Keymis had brought from San Thome. He would be able to speak,
it was mentioned, of 'seven or eight several mines of gold that are there.' It was not convenient
to order any such examination. Ralegh wrote other letters from the Tower. He wrote to Villiers,
to explain, not so much to him or his master, as to his own wounded self-respect, the one act
of which he was really ashamed. It was his ineffectual flight, that 'late and too late lamented
resolution.' He recounted to deaf ears the dreams on which he had brooded of permission to
lead yet another expedition in search of his El Dorado; his despair, when the peremptory summons
by the Council to London demonstrated to him that his vision of treasures and glory was to
be extinguished for ever by actual or virtual death. In a much bolder letter to George Carew,
intended for the King's perusal, which sounds more like a manifesto to the English nation,
he frankly avowed the things he had left undone as well as the things he had done, and his
reasons. He admitted he had not, in his description of his project, reminded the King that
the Spaniards had already a footing in Guiana. Though the King's advisers were as well aware
as himself of the foundation of the original San Thome, he was willing to facilitate the King's
efforts to purge himself individually of complicity with the attack on a Spanish settlement.
He admitted further that his patent did not formally authorize him to remove the Spaniards
when they blocked the path to the Mine. His defence was that he required no distinct authority.
The natural lords of Guiana had acknowledged Elizabeth their sovereign, and the Spaniards had
no title to forbid the entry of Englishmen. He did not deny his responsibility for the capture
of San Thome as part of the operations for the discovery of the Mine, and he justified it.
His right to march about Guiana without let or hindrance was, he contended, implied in the
Royal commission. Unless the King's title to Guiana were clear, his entrance for any purpose
could not have been sanctioned. If Guiana were Spanish soil, he would have been as manifestly
a thief for taking gold anywhere out of it, and the Crown as manifestly an accessary to theft,
as the Spaniards now asserted him to be a peace breaker.

[Sidenote: Detention of Lady Ralegh.]

As may easily be imagined, these were not confessions of the sort James desired. 'Farrago istius
veteratoris' was the description applied to them by Wilson in his classical moments. 'Mountebank's
stuff' he called them when writing for less classical eyes than the King's. Naunton affected
to despise them as 'roaring tedious epistles.' They were as little satisfied with the undressed
disclosures which they ungenerously endeavoured to obtain through Lady Carew and Lady Ralegh.
Lady Carew was made to question him on his communications with the French Agent, and also to
question the Agent. She reported the Agent's answer to her interrogation what Ralegh was to
have done or to do in France if he had succeeded, or should succeed, in escaping thither. It
was: 'Il mangera, il boyera, il fera bien.' Nothing more material was extracted from Lady Ralegh.
She had been committed on August 20 to the custody, in her own house in Broad-street, of a
London merchant, Wollaston. He was relieved of the disagreeable duty on September 10, 'for
his many great occasions and affairs.' Another merchant, Richard Champion, succeeded him. He
was forbidden to allow any to have access to her, save only such as he should think fit. Eventually
she was subjected to the supervision of Wilson. No crime was imputed to her. The object of
the lawless outrage was the interception of admissions in the letters husband and wife were
encouraged to write. All were submitted to the King's prying though lazy eyes. Naunton remarked
on one occasion to Wilson: 'I forbear to send your long letter to the King, who would not read
over the Lady's, being glutted and cloyed with business.' The correspondence told little any
of the conspirators cared to learn. The letters breathed a trust and affection James never
inspired. None of the State secrets he expected to detect were revealed in such a note as from
Ralegh in September: 'I am sick and weak. My swollen side keeps me in perpetual pain and unrest;'
or in her reply: 'I am sorry to hear amongst many discomforts that your health is so ill. 'Tis
merely sorrow and grief. I hope your health and comforts will mend, and mend us for God.'

[Sidenote: Mr. Gardiner's Case against Ralegh.]

[Sidenote: The King's good Faith.]

By this time the Government recognised that it had done all in its power for the completion
of its case against Ralegh. Students of the proceedings will think the same. They have cause
to be grateful to Mr. Gardiner for marshalling the medley in his essay under that title in
the Fortnightly Review. With the fullest desire to be impartial, he sums up strongly against
the defendant; and his skill and patience in the collection of evidence are such as to ensure
that he has neglected nothing available for a decisive condemnation. According to him, Ralegh
was guilty of a flagrant breach of the conditions on which his expedition was authorized. He
had pledged his own faith and that of his friends and companions that he could reach and work
his Mine in Guiana without attacking resident Spaniards, or trespassing on lands in Spanish
occupation. James, it is said, was not inconsistent with his own principles in sanctioning
an enterprise thus qualified. The King's doctrine, frankly stated by Mr. Gardiner, was that
nothing less than occupancy carried the right to territorial dominion; and it had been declared
to him that the locality of the Mine was not occupied by Spaniards. He was sceptical of the
existence of the Mine, and he was mistrustful of Ralegh's disposition to comply with the compact.
The national eagerness, however, for the adventure, and the confidence of Ralegh's well-wishers,
overpowered his reluctance. He was moved also by the venial hope of a vast influx of innocent
profit into his empty Treasury. From the first it was understood plainly that the admiral accepted
the entire responsibility for the maintenance of a peaceable attitude towards Spanish possessions.
The postponement of a pardon was a sign. Ralegh's conduct in despatching his men to a spot
where a collision was inevitable, indicated a deliberate disregard of his covenants. James
could not have known that the situation of the new San Thome necessitated a conflict, if the
Mine were to be approached, since Ralegh himself had in England not been aware of the resettlement.
As soon as he heard, his duty was either to retire, or to choose a fresh route. He did neither,
and thus fairly laid himself open to the punishment he had invoked before he started. Mr. Gardiner
does not allow that James is chargeable with double dealing which should have tied his hands
as against Ralegh, on account of the disclosure of Ralegh's memorial and plans to Gondomar.
The memorial, which, Mr. Gardiner is sure, included no specification of the place of the Mine,
would tell the Ambassador little of novelty or practical importance. Besides, Mr. Gardiner
believes Ralegh was aware that it was to be shown. Finally, Ralegh's designs against the plate
fleet, and his intrigues with Savoy and France, in Mr. Gardiner's opinion, sufficiently demonstrate
his want of scrupulousness. The evidence of them would naturally disincline the King for passing
indulgently over proved violations of agreement. On the whole, he concludes, 'no one who now
constructs a narrative of Ralegh's voyage on the basis of a belief in his veracity will be
likely to obtain a hearing.'

[Sidenote: Weakness of the Case.]

It is a large indictment resting upon a very slender basis. The question of the alleged schemes
of freebooting, none of which issued in action, has been considered already. For the present
its relevancy depends on the answer to the main charge of an unlicensed and deliberate rupture
by Ralegh of the peace between his own Sovereign and the King of Spain. For a determination
of the point it must be remembered how much Mr. Gardiner concedes in Ralegh's favour, as well
as how much he decides adversely. If San Thome had remained in 1618 where it was in 1596, and
Spanish troops, having taken up a temporary post a score or so of miles lower down, had from
that barred the quiet passage of young Walter and Keymis, Mr. Gardiner apparently must have
exonerated Ralegh. He would have been safe within his commission, which appointed him leader
of an armed force for the obvious purpose of resisting impediments to his progress about Guiana,
unless where Spaniards were in immediate possession. Warfare with Spaniards in Guiana is not
in itself represented as criminal. His sole offence was in combating them voluntarily on ground
they positively occupied. The same defence which he might have conclusively urged if soldiers,
descending from the original San Thome, had blocked his transit, is justly pleadable for his
men's voyage on the Orinoko past the new town. Guiana in general being free to Englishmen,
it is manifest that a settlement on the bank could not appropriate the channel. The whole question
of the guilt or innocence of Ralegh on James's reading of international law, is narrowed to
the minute issue whether the Spaniards or the Englishmen on the particular scene of the fight
were the aggressors. Whatever the decision upon that, it is difficult to see how it could properly
affect Ralegh. His right and his duty were to find and take possession of the Mine, if it were
not in Spanish hands, as nobody alleges it was. He was entitled to break through obstacles
in his way, so long as he did not violate actual Spanish soil. Lawfully he sent his comrades
along the Orinoko. If on their road the Spaniards compelled a contest, neither Ralegh nor his
subordinates were in fault. If his captains compelled it, he cannot have been liable, unless
he be proved, as he has not been, to have so instructed them. In any event, when all Spanish
officers in America notoriously deemed an Englishman a pirate who entered the Orinoko without
their leave, and King James claimed authority to send his subjects wherever in Guiana Spaniards
were not permanently planted, it is unreasonable to throw the liability for an armed brawl
between Spaniards and Englishmen in Guiana upon the English chief. His Sovereign, who with
eyes open despatched him with an armament to work a mine of prodigious value, cannot be permitted
to shift on him the odium of a bloody struggle because the goal turned out to be some eight
miles off, instead of the twenty more or less at which both master and subject had judged it to be.

[Sidenote: Difficulties of the Government.]

The design of the Government had been to discover proof of fresh crimes since Ralegh's liberation
in 1616, and to try him for them. It had failed. Much of the testimony it had painfully collected
was dubious, vague, biassed, interested, or plainly corrupt. Such as it was the Council either
would not, or could not, rely upon it for a conviction. Ralegh's transactions with the Frenchmen
were unwarrantable, if its view of them were correct. But they had resulted in nothing, and
they were a continuation of relations which it had itself promoted. At San Thome, if he were
liable for his men, as partially he did not deny, though he might have denied it, he had broken
the King's peace by an invasion of Spanish territory, if Guiana were Spanish. He maintained
that it was as much English as it was Spanish, if not more; and they neither dared, in the
existing state of national opinion, nor perhaps cared, to gainsay the doctrine. His alleged
schemes for the maritime spoliation of Spaniards may well have been to his mind lawful. All
English seamen, and the nation at large, believed that the articles of peace between the two
kingdoms did not extend beyond the Equator. In the latest treaty with Spain, that of 1604,
the Indies and their trade were intentionally not mentioned, on account of the insoluble difficulties
arising out of the Spanish determination to shut the region to free European trade. For Ralegh
and a multitude of Englishmen, and Spaniards also, England and Spain were in America always
at war. Neither national nor international law countenanced the doctrine. Any Englishman who
had devastated Spanish commerce in the West Indies, would, during a large part of Elizabeth's
reign, have been amenable to criminal justice, if the State had prosecuted. But the State then
was not inclined to prosecute for such acts. During the next reign some statesmen continued
to hold, like the people, that there was no peace beyond the Line. If there were peace, the
State could not have proceeded against Ralegh for the thought of breaking it. The single criminal
act proved was his attempt at escape. For it he might have been tried and punished. But the
most triumphant prosecution on such a charge would not have given the Government the pound
of flesh it owed to Spain. Nothing less was of use.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's real Motive.]

[Sidenote: The Rest Talk.]

The administration floundered about in futile efforts. Perpetually it was deluded by a sensation
of solid ground which immediately slipped from under its feet. It was the more enraged with
Ralegh that he seemed to be ever offering clues, which only led astray. It imputed its embarrassment
to his cunning. He had no intention to deceive, or even to abstain from promoting a revelation
of the truth, which he did not fear. Simply he and it were radically at cross purposes. They
were mutually unintelligible. The sincerity of his ardour for the attainment of a footing in
Guiana is unquestionable. He was honestly eager for it in the Tower, in Trinidad after the
return from San Thome, at Plymouth, when he was grovelling in counterfeit madness at Salisbury,
and when he was a fugitive on the Thames. But Guiana was not his real end. Guiana was the means
he had finally and deliberately chosen to inflame the English people and Crown with an inextinguishable
ambition for the creation of an American empire. He did not much mind how the national imagination
was kindled, provided that it caught fire. His motive was patriotic and vast, and his judges
and accusers, conscientious men like Cæsar and Abbot, as well as others, had not the faintest
understanding of it. All except the motive was talk, much of it reprehensible talk, but much
not truly reported; and his censors let their prejudices seduce them into treating the entire
mass as evidence of facts and acts. If he ever instructed his officers to commence the expedition
to the Mine by taking the initiative in an attack on San Thome, the direction was confined
to talk. If, whether before or after the San Thome incident, he spoke of the capture of the
plate fleet, that was nothing but talk. Captain Parker's report of the project of Ralegh and
St. Leger for lying in wait for homeward bound ships referred, if not wholly untrue, to talk,
like his own and Whitney's similar plans. When Ralegh told his wife he hoped for something
ere his return, that was talk. If he ever said he should not come back, that was talk. If he
boasted of a French commission, and affirmed his preference for France, that was talk. The
entire pile of charges against him, proved, unproved, or disproved, was talk. All began and
ended in talk, unless that Bayley captured French boats, and Ralegh redeemed them; that the
Lancerota islanders murdered English sailors, and he did not retaliate; that the San Giuseppe
Spaniards were aggressors, and he bore it; and that the garrison of San Thome laid an ambush
for his men, to hinder their access to a district which his Sovereign had commissioned him
to enter, and were soundly beaten for their hostility.

The Government was in a dilemma. It meant to put Ralegh to death, and the process was as behindhand
as at Ralegh's return to Plymouth, or more so. Spain had the promise of his blood, as soon
as it should decide whether itself or England were to provide the scaffold. On October 15 the
Spanish Legation in London received the answer of the Escurial. Philip III had no mind to accept
the odium before Europe of murdering a redoubtable foe. He expressed his preference for an
execution in England, and at once. Only in one way could the object be effected. Ralegh must
be put to death, not ostensibly for San Thome, but for the Main Plot. Both for Ralegh and his
heroic wife the immediate results were solacing. There was no need for tormenting either further
for the concoction of a fresh indictment, if the original indictment retained strength to do
the work. A warrant was addressed to Wilson for Lady Ralegh's release from his supervision.
By another he was discharged from attendance upon her husband. Ten days earlier he had pretended
to pray the King's leave to give up his trust at the Tower. He said he was anxious to resume
the arrangement of the State papers of the previous six or seven years. For Ralegh at all events
it was a happy respite to be restored, for the last dozen days of his Tower life, to the honest
keeping of Sir Allen, and the charitable offices of Lady Apsley.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A SUBSTITUTE FOR A TRIAL (October 22, 1618).

[Sidenote: Two Courses.]

Bacon, his fellow Commissioners, and the Law Officers were consulted by the Crown on the fitting
procedure for the setting up of the old conviction. Coke seems to have been deputed by the
other Commissioners to embody in legal form their unanimous opinion, which Bacon, as Lord Chancellor,
delivered to James on October 18. The only copy in existence is in Coke's handwriting. It was
to the purport that Ralegh, being attainted already of high treason, could not be drawn in
question judicially for any crime since committed. The Commissioners recommended one of two
courses. The first was for the King to issue his warrant for execution upon the conviction
of 1603. At the same time, as Ralegh's 'late crimes and offences were not yet publicly known,'
a printed narrative of them might be published. The Commissioners agreed that such a course
could legally be pursued. Some among them would see as clearly, though they might not feel
as indignantly, as the modern Whig historian, that 'no technical reasoning could overcome the
moral sense which revolted at carrying the original sentence into execution.' Consequently,
an alternative method, to which the Commissioners 'rather inclined,' was suggested in Coke's
paper; one 'nearest to a legal procedure.' There was a precedent in certain proceedings against
Lady Shrewsbury. According to it, Ralegh might be called before the whole body of the Council
of State, with the addition of the principal Judges, some noblemen and gentlemen of quality
being invited to act as audience. He should be told he was brought before the Council rather
than a Court of Justice, because he was already civilly dead. Then he should be charged in
regular form by counsel with his acts of hostility, depredation and abuse. He should be heard
in his defence; and adverse witnesses should be confronted with him, as Cobham had not been.
With that which concerned the Frenchmen the Commissioners thought he should not be charged.
Therein he had been passive rather than active; and without it the case appeared to the Commissioners
to be complete. Moreover, they doubtless suspected Ralegh could show that in the French negotiations
he had not acted alone. Finally, said the memorial, the Council and the Judges assisting would
advise whether his Majesty might not with justice and honour give warrant for Ralegh's execution
upon his attainder, in respect of his subsequent offences.

[Sidenote: Objections to an open Inquiry.]

[Sidenote: Sir Julius Cæsar.]

James dictated a reply to the Commissioners, which is extant in the writing of the secretary
of Villiers. He objected to the second proposal in its original form for two main reasons.
The procedure, though proper against a Countess, would be too great honour against one of Ralegh's
state. It would not be 'fit, because it would make him too popular, as was found by experiment
at the arraignment at Winchester, where by his wit he turned the hatred of men into compassion.'
Consequently, the King modified the arrangement by an omission of the Judges, and of the element
of partial publicity through the presence of a selected audience. The members of the Council
who had conducted the previous examinations were directed to sit as a quasi-criminal Court.
But they sat with closed doors, and their sitting was kept strictly private. From a letter
at Simancas, written on November 6 by a Spanish Agent in London, Julian Sanchez de Ulloa, to
his Government from hearsay, it may be gathered that the inquiry was held on October 22, and
lasted for four hours. No complete account has been discovered of the course it took, in consequence,
Mr. Spedding, in his Life of Bacon, supposes, of the destruction of a mass of Council Chamber
papers in the fire of January 12, 1619, at the Banqueting House. That is possible. As the Commission
sat as a Court, not as a Council, the explanation is not incompatible with the circumstance
that the Council Register for 1618, which, as it happens, did not suffer from the conflagration,
contains no allusion to a meeting of the Council on October 22. Nevertheless it is more likely
that the want of official record is due to the extreme anxiety of the King's advisers for secrecy.
They were afraid of popular feeling. The fact of the imitation trial might have been itself
doubtful, but for a fragmentary sketch in a volume of Sir Julius Cæsar's notes, preserved among
the Lansdowne Manuscripts in the British Museum. The report, which breaks off in the middle
of a sentence, is on Council paper, and may have been drawn up for official use, if not with
a view to ultimate insertion in the Privy Council Register. In Mr. Spedding's opinion only
the first sheet has been kept, and the condition of the paper seems to me clearly to favour
the hypothesis. He believes that the full note contained additional evidence against Ralegh,
for instance, on the question of the expedition's provision of mining tools, with his replies
to it, and the decision of the Commissioners upon the whole. The report, in its existing form,
needs to be eked out with the suggestions, necessarily not very sympathetic, in the subsequent
Royal Declaration of Ralegh's line of defence against the charges. Such as it is, it must be
read with caution and uncertainty. Cæsar, who was Master of the Rolls, was generous, and, for
a Jacobean placeman, just. The only grave imputation on his memory is his connivance, as a
Commissioner, at the collusive divorce of Lady Essex. It is not impugning the good faith of
any reporters of proceedings, like the present, against Ralegh, to look sceptically at their
narrative. Law reporters in general had lax notions in those days of the distinction between
actual statements and inferences by themselves as to the construction they bore. Coke's Reports
show it abundantly. Cæsar in particular would feel in no way bound to mechanical accuracy.
His endeavour would be to give the prevailing force and significance of the charges, of the
defence, and of the evidence; the impression they made upon him with a view to his judicial
conclusion. We know the judgment formed in advance by him and his colleagues on the mendacity
of Ralegh's account of the motive of his enterprise. That could not but warp a compendium by
him of an investigation instituted in order to find a legal justification for a capital sentence
on a presumed impostor and pirate.

[Sidenote: Charges and Defence.]

Sir Henry Yelverton, the Attorney-General, leading for the Crown, took for his theme the conduct
of the expedition. He was obliged to try to excuse the King for his authorization of an adventure
alleged by himself to be an imposture. His Majesty had been induced, by the hope of 'his country's
good,' to grant a commission, which, it should be noted, Cæsar describes as 'under the Great
Seal.' The King, Yelverton was not ashamed to suggest, had been the dupe of Ralegh, who invented
the Mine to regain his liberty. He could not, it was argued, have meant to mine, since he carried
no miners or instruments. He had a French commission to assail Spaniards. In reliance on that
he had ventured to direct an attack on San Thome. On its failure he was in a mood to depart,
and leave his poor company behind him helpless. He had anticipated lucrative booty from the
town. Disappointment at its meagreness helped to incite him to schemes for the capture of the
Mexico fleet. Much indignation was spent by Sir Thomas Coventry, the Solicitor-General, in
his turn, on 'vile and dishonourable speeches, full of contumely to the King,' which, on the
word of Stukely and Manourie, he supposed Ralegh to have uttered. Coventry stigmatized them
as marking especial and flagitious ingratitude. 'Never was subject so obliged to his Sovereign
as he.'

Ralegh, in his reply, repudiated with his wonted courtesy the assertion that he had received
extraordinary marks of royal lenity. His release from the Tower he claimed as a tardy reparation
for a protracted wrong. 'I do verily believe,' he exclaimed, 'that his Majesty doth in his
own conscience clear me of all guiltiness in regard to my conviction in the year 1603. Indeed,
I know that his Majesty hath been heard to say, in speaking of these proceedings, that he would
not wish to be tried by a Middlesex jury.' He added Dr. Turner's report to him of Mr. Justice
Gawdy's death-bed censure of his condemnation. But he denied that he had in fact uttered the
abuse imputed to him by Stukely and Manourie. His only ill speech of his Majesty had been:
'My confidence in the King is deceived.' It was deceived. The charge that he had never meant
to work a mine he met by references to refiners, and tools and assaying apparatus, costing
him £2000, that he had conveyed with him. To the accusation that he had broken the King's peace
with Spain, he retorted that the aggression proceeded from the Spaniards. He had not directed
any attack upon them. His only object in despatching an armed force had been that the soldiers
might take up a position between the town and the Mine while the rest were at work. The mere
attempt to reach the Mine was no offence, unless Spaniards had an absolute territorial title
to the soil of the region in which it lay.

[Sidenote: Designs against the Plate Fleet.]

[Sidenote: The Explanation.]

The Commission could not affirm an absolute claim on behalf of Spain. It was reduced to rely
upon accusations that he had from the beginning harboured piratical intentions, and counted
upon the assistance of France for their accomplishment. Sir John Ferne, who had left him, reported
to the Commission talk by him as if he had meant to turn buccaneer, and also to enter the French
service. Apparently that was the belief of some of his officers, though several may have alleged
it simply to excuse their desertion, and to guard against counter charges by him. In any case
the theory seems to have been founded upon the most superficial proofs. Of any piratical acts
of his, or practical service rendered to France, he could confidently challenge the Law Officers
to produce the smallest proof. But on the solitary charge of a design to seize the plate fleet
the Commission was in possession of a morsel of corroborative evidence. It confronted him with
another of his runaway captains, Pennington, and also with Wareham St. Leger. They testified
to admissions of his intention to lie in wait for the plate fleet. According to Cæsar's note,
after their testimony he could no longer adhere to his denial, and 'confessed that he proposed
the taking of the Mexico fleet if the mine failed.' How far he positively admitted it, and
how far Cæsar inferred to his own satisfaction from Ralegh's mode of receiving the evidence
that he could not really contradict it, cannot be ascertained. As has been remarked, all depends
on how the thing was said. If Cæsar's summary of the proceedings had been handed down in a
more complete form, it might itself have impressed posterity otherwise than the evidence impressed
him. By the allusions in the Royal Declaration it may be seen that Ralegh was far from being
overwhelmed by St. Leger's and Pennington's testimony. In the first place he appears to have
asserted that the words concerning the plate fleet were spoken after, and not before, the search
for the Mine had been defeated, and that the plan was propounded by him merely to keep the
fleet together through the tempting vision. If he had ever before said anything to the same
effect, 'it was but discourse at large.' Without regard to the strength or weakness, the sufficiency
or insufficiency, of his defence, as to which Mr. Spedding concedes that the remains of Cæsar's
note afford scanty materials for a conclusion, there can be no question that the Commissioners
paid little respect to his arguments. If they ever embodied their opinion, as Mr. Spedding
thinks probable, in words, he certainly is correct in his conjecture that it was wholly condemnatory.

According to Ulloa's account, Bacon wound up the proceedings by addressing a solemn rebuke
to Ralegh for the injury he had done to Spanish territories, and by telling him that he must
die. Perhaps, however, the Spaniard's informant antedated the Lord Chancellor's announcement,
which may be identical with that, hereafter to be mentioned, of October 24. At all events,
a privy seal seems to have been sent to the Judges, 'forthwith to order execution.' Jacobean
Judges could commit monstrous injustices. They liked to be unjust according to precedent. They
demurred, and a conference of them was called. At this, on October 23, it was decided that
a privy seal was not enough. It was determined that Ralegh should be brought to bar on a writ
of Habeas Corpus addressed to the Lieutenant of the Tower. He was to be asked if he could urge
any objection to an award of execution; 'for he might have a pardon; or he might say that he
was not the same person.' As a preliminary he was called next day before the Council at Whitehall.
He was informed that he was to be executed on his old sentence. His reply is not recorded.
If he argued on behalf of his life, it was to no purpose. He was more fortunate with his petition
that he might be beheaded, and not hanged. For that amount of benevolence the Council intimated
its willingness to hold itself responsible.

[Sidenote: Before the King's Bench.]

A second privy seal came to the Justices of the King's Bench. Their Chief, Coke's successor,
much more polished and discreet than he, was Sir Henry Montagu, afterwards Lord Treasurer,
Lord President, and Earl of Manchester. His Court was simply commanded to proceed according
to law, as it was called. Ralegh had been suffering from an attack of ague. On October 28,
at eight, he was awakened with the fit still upon him. He was served with a summons to appear
forthwith at Westminster. As he passed along the corridor an old servant, Peter, met him. While
he was under Wilson's custody his own domestics had been withdrawn. They had since been allowed
to attend him. One of Peter's duties had been to comb the hair, no longer flowing and thick,
of his head, and his beard, for an hour a day. Ralegh had left off the practice for a time.
As he told Wilson, 'he would know first who should have his head; he would not bestow so much
cost of it for the hangman.' Peter had doubtless at his return brought his master back to the
old usage. He now reminded Ralegh that he was going forth with his head undressed. Ralegh replied
with a good-humoured question, 'Dost thou know, Peter, of any plaster that will set a man's
head on again, when it is off?'

[Sidenote: Execution granted.]

He was at Westminster soon after nine. After the Winchester conviction had been read, Yelverton,
as Attorney-General, briefly demanded execution. He was more courteous than Coke had been in
his place, and more dignified. 'Sir Walter Ralegh,' he said, 'hath been a statesman, and a
man who, in regard to his parts and quality, is to be pitied. It is therefore his Majesty's
pleasure now to call for execution of the former judgment, and I require order for the same.'
Ralegh held up his hand. He told the Court that 'his voice was grown weak by his late sickness,
and an ague he had at that instant upon him; therefore, he desired the relief of a pen and
ink.' Montagu told him he spoke audibly enough. So he proceeded with his defence. He argued,
as Bacon is rumoured to have argued at Gray's Inn, that the King's commission for the late
voyage, with the power of life and death, amounted to a pardon. Montagu interrupted him. Nothing
about his voyage was, he said, to the purport. Treason was never pardoned by implication. On
this Ralegh put himself on the King's mercy. He urged that in that judgment which was so long
past, both his Majesty was of opinion, and there were some present who could witness, that
he had hard usage. If his Majesty had not been anew exasperated against him, he was sure he
might, if he could by nature, have lived a thousand and a thousand years before advantage would
have been taken of the judgment. Montagu answered that for all the past fifteen years he had
been as a man dead in the law; but the King in mercy spared him. He might think it heavy if
it were done in cold blood. But new offences had stirred up his Majesty's justice to revive
what the law had formerly cast upon him. Fear not death too much, nor fear death too little;
not too much lest you fail in your hope, nor too little lest you die presumptuously.' He ended:
'Execution is granted.'

Ralegh said he had no desire 'to gain one minute of life; for now being old, sickly, in disgrace,
and certain to go to it, life was wearisome to him.' But he prayed for a reasonable delay;
he had something to do in discharge of his conscience, something for the satisfaction of his
Majesty, and something for that of the world. Above all, he besought their Lordships that,
when he came to die, he might have leave to speak freely at his farewell. He called God, before
whom he was shortly to appear, to witness that he was never disloyal, as he should justify
where he need not fear the face of any King on earth. So, with an entreaty to them to pray
for him, he was led away to the Gate-house.

[Sidenote: The Queen's Intercession through Villiers.]

[Sidenote: Other Petitioners.]

James and his confidants were not allowed to carry out their iniquity without remonstrances.
Already the Queen had exerted once more her waning influence for Ralegh. He had appealed to
her in solemn verse from his prison in the name of his innocence and friendlessness. She was
now on her death-bed, dropsical, gloomy, and neglected. It was whispered that she was disturbed
in her reason. She preserved at least sufficient intelligence to be horrified at the wrong
which was being prepared, and the stain threatened to the memory of her husband's reign. She
responded to Ralegh's petition by an earnest letter to George Villiers. She had, at Archbishop
Abbot's solicitation, recommended Villiers to the favour of James. He exhibited the most obsequious
deference to her as well as to the King. Her letter, of which the precise date is unknown,
is addressed to 'My kind Dogge.' That was the name by which Villiers affected to like both
of them to call him. As vainly young Carew Ralegh prayed, without date or superscription, for
the life of 'my poor father, sometime honoured with many great places of command by the most
worthy Queen Elizabeth, the possessor whereof she left him at her death, as a token of her
goodwill to his loyalty.' The lad, now about thirteen, or rather they who dictated his memorial,
must have been very simple to suppose that Elizabeth's favour was a passport to James's compassion.
On his death-bed James Montague, who died in July, 1618, Bishop of Winchester, and is transformed
by Wilson in his journal into the Earl of Winchester, had previously begged of James one thing,
the life of Ralegh; 'a great offender,' Montague called him, 'who yet was dearly respected
of the late noble Queen.' In his choice of reasons the prelate seems to have been as injudicious
as the boy. As fruitlessly were solicitations addressed to the King by Lady Ralegh, and by
persons described generally as in great favour and esteem with him. All were repulsed. James,
says Francis Osborn in his Traditional Memoirs, 'did so far participate of the humour of a
pusillanimous prince as to pardon any sooner than those injured by himself.' He was unconscious
of any such malignity. It is pathetic to observe his utter freedom from suspicion that posterity
could help characterizing him as resolute, wise, and just for his persecution of Ralegh, and
not as a wretched trickster.

Ralegh's own main anxiety was to settle his affairs in the first place, and to secure that
none suffered pecuniary detriment, much or little, through his fault or negligence. When that
was assured, he next longed to clear his fame, in death, of every slur and taint. In November,
for discharge of his conscience, he gave to Wilson a testamentary note, that he had never let
to Captain Caulfeild land near Sherborne Castle, which John Meere claimed by a counterfeit
grant of his to Caulfeild. He mentioned further that, before his departure from Cork to Guiana,
he had written in prejudice of H. Pyne's lease of Mogile Castle, and in favour of Lord Boyle's
claim. Since that time, better bethinking himself, he desired the opinion he gave at Cork might
be no evidence in law, and that it should be left to other proofs on both sides. He requested
Lady Ralegh, 'if she should enjoy her goods,' to be kind to Hamon's wife, and in any case to
the wife of John Talbot, his servant in the Tower, who had died in Guiana: 'I fear me, her
son being dead, she will otherwise perish.' He added that an account ought to be exacted from
Stukely of the tobacco he had sold at Plymouth, and also of the parcel he had sent down the
river, 'the Sunday that we took boat.'

[Sidenote: Warrant for Execution.]

When he prayed a 'respite,' it was not that he was scared at the approach of death. His mind
was never brighter and happier.

Assuredly he was not one of the cowards. But his career had been confused and tumultuous. He
would have been glad of a little leisure and quiet for unravelling some of the knots. He understood
his enemies and events too well to be surprised that his shrift was to be short. Before his
appearance at the King's Bench, Bacon had drawn the warrant for execution, and James had signed
it. Naunton wrote to Carleton, the general depositary of confidential gossip, on October 28,
that the warrant for execution had been drawn up, and sent to the King for signature; only,
'it had better not be talked about, as it is de futuro contingente.' James, meanwhile, was
restlessly hunting to and fro between Oatlands, Theobalds, and Hampton Court. He was composing
meditations on the Lord's Prayer, and dedicating them to Villiers. The warrant, though he was
then in Hertfordshire, was dated the day of the scene in the King's Bench. It was directed
to the Chancellor. It dispensed with 'the manner of execution according to his former judgment,
and released Sir Walter Ralegh of the same to be drawn, hanged, and quartered.' The royal pleasure
instead thereof was to have the head only of the said Sir Walter Ralegh cut off at or within
the Palace of Westminster.

CHAPTER XXX.

RALEGH'S TRIUMPH (October 28-29, 1618).

[Sidenote: The Gate-house.]

Ralegh was confined in the Gate-house of the old monastery of St. Peter. It was a small two-storied
building of the age of Edward III, standing at the western entrance to Tothill-street. The
structure embraced two adjoining gates, with rooms which had been turned into prison cells.
By the side of the gate leading northwards from the College-court, was the Bishop of London's
prison for convicted clerks and Romish recusants. With the other gate westwards was connected
the gaol of the Liberty of Westminster, to which Ralegh had been committed. The Abbey was visible
through its barred windows. Ben Jonson had been confined in it. Eliot, Hampden, and Selden
were to be. Lovelace sang there to stone walls. Esmond's name may be added to the list of its
glories. Ralegh had been afraid the King might prevent him from speaking, or from being heard.
He feared that the space for his friends would be narrow. As he crossed Palace Yard to the
Gate-house he had asked Sir Hugh Beeston, of Cheshire, to be there. 'But,' he said, 'I do not
know what you may do for a place. For my part, I am sure of one.' Many came to the prison to
bid farewell. Among them, according to Sir William Sanderson, was his father, the ex-deputy
Licenser. Ralegh was lively and cheerful. To those who grieved he said: 'The world itself is
but a larger prison, out of which some are daily selected for execution.' There is no reason
for doubting the sincerity of his content. He had striven manfully for a life which for him
meant the exercise of fruitful energy. He rejoiced in death, when, from no remissness of his,
it closed his labours. His kinsman, Francis Thynne, advised him: 'Do not carry it with too
much bravery. Your enemies will take exception, if you do.' His friends were afraid of the
'pride' which had provoked Henry Howard. 'It is my last mirth in this world,' replied he; 'do
not grudge it to me. When I come to the sad parting, you will see me grave enough.'

[Sidenote: Fearless of Death.]

By desire of the Lords of the Council, Dr. Robert Tounson, Dean of Westminster, and afterwards
Bishop of Salisbury, attended him. Tounson wrote on November 9 to Sir John Isham: 'He was the
most fearless of death that ever was known; and the most resolute and confident, yet with reverence
and conscience. When I began to encourage him against the fear of death, he seemed to make
so light of it that I wondered at him. He gave God thanks, he never feared death; and the manner
of death, though to others it might seem grievous, yet he had rather die so than of a burning
fever. I wished him not to flatter himself, for this extraordinary boldness, I was afraid,
came from some false ground. If it were out of a humour of vain glory, or carelessness of death,
or senselessness of his own state, he were much to be lamented. He answered that he was persuaded
that no man that knew God and feared Him could die with cheerfulness and courage, except he
were assured of the love and favour of God unto him; that other men might make shows outwardly,
but they felt no joy within; with much more to that effect, very Christianly; so that he satisfied
me then, as I think he did all his spectators at his death.' A reputation for free thinking
once established is tenacious. Though Ralegh satisfied a Chief Justice, a Dean of Westminster,
and men like Pym, Eliot, Hampden, of his orthodoxy, he did not satisfy all. Archbishop Abbot
three or four months later wrote to Sir Thomas Roe that his execution was a judgment on him
for his scepticism.

He did not allude, wrote Tounson, to 'his former treason.' As to more recent imputations, he
could not conceive how it was possible to break peace with Spain, which 'within these four
years took divers of his men, and bound them back to back and drowned them.'

[Sidenote: A last Farewell to his Wife.]

Later arrived his wife. She had spent the earlier hours in trying to induce the Council to
mediate with the King. Before she came she had learnt from a friend that it refused to beg
the life, but authorized her to dispose of the corpse. At the Gate-house first she heard he
was to be beheaded on Friday morning, October 29. That was Lord Mayor's Day, the morrow of
St. Simon and St. Jude. It appears to have been selected, that the City pageant might draw
away the crowd from hearing him, and seeing him die. As he and she were consulting how she
was to vindicate his fame, if he should be hindered from speech on the scaffold, the Abbey
clock struck twelve. She rose to go, that he might rest. Then, with a burst of anguish, she
told him she had leave to bury his body. It was a rehearsal of the topics on which he meant
to speak on the scaffold. If his mouth were closed it was intended to be a substitute. He repeated
in it his constant affirmation of his loyalty: 'If,' he said, 'I had not loved and honoured
the King truly, and trusted in his goodness somewhat too much, I had not suffered death.' Then
the poet awoke in him.

[Sidenote: 'Innocent in the Fact.']

Early in the morning came Tounson again, and administered the Sacrament. Tounson wrote in the
letter to Sir John Isham, from which I have already quoted, that Ralegh hoped to persuade the
world he died an innocent man. The Dean objected that his assertions of innocence obliquely
denied the justice of the Realm upon him. In reply he confessed justice had been done; that
was to say, that by course of law he must die; but he claimed leave, he said, to stand upon
his innocency in the fact; and he thought both the King, and all who heard his answers, believed
verily he was innocent for that matter. Tounson then pressed him to call to mind what he had
done formerly. Though perhaps in that particular for which he was condemned he was clear, yet
for some other matter, it might be, he was guilty, and therefore he should acknowledge the
justice of God in it, though at the hands of men he had but hard measure. Here Tounson says
he put him in mind of the death of my Lord of Essex; how it was generally reported that he
was a great instrument of Essex's death. If his heart charged him with that, he should heartily
repent, and ask God forgiveness. To this he made answer; and he said moreover that my Lord
of Essex was fetched off by a trick, of which he privately told Tounson. He was, testifies
Tounson, very cheerful, ate his breakfast heartily, and took tobacco, and made no more of his
death than if it had been to take a journey.

[Sidenote: His Good-humour.]

Before he quitted the Gate-house a cup of sack was brought. After he had drunk it the bearer
asked if it were to his liking. They conducted him to Old Palace Yard, where a large scaffold
had been erected in front of the Parliament-house. Though the space had been narrowed by barriers,
a great multitude had collected. It included, according to John Eliot, who was present, enemies
as well as friends. Ralegh was dressed in a black-wrought velvet nightgown over a hair-coloured
satin doublet, a ruff band, and a black-wrought waistcoat, black cut taffeta breeches, and
ash-coloured silk stockings. On account of his ague he wore under his hat a wrought nightcap.
Seeing in the crowd an old man with a very bald head, he inquired why he had ventured forth
on such a morning; whether he would have aught of him. 'Nothing,' was the answer, 'but to see
him, and pray God for him.' Ralegh thanked him, and grieved that he had no better return to
make for his good will than 'this,' said he, as he threw him his lace cap, 'which you need,
my friend, now more than I.' Being pressed on by the crowd, he was breathless and faint when
he mounted the scaffold; but he saluted with a cheerful countenance those of his acquaintance
whom he saw. Lords Arundel, Doncaster, Northampton, formerly Compton, and Oxford--son of Sir
Walter's enemy--stood in Sir Randolph Carew's, or Crues's, balcony. Other Lords, Sheffield
and Percy, sat on horseback near. Sir Edward Sackville, Colonel Cecil, Sir Henry Rich, were
among the spectators. The assemblage is said to have included ladies of rank. The morning was
raw, and a fire had been lighted beside the scaffold for the Sheriffs, while they waited before
going to the Gate-house. They invited him to descend and warm himself. He declined; his ague
would soon be upon him; it might be deemed, he said, if he delayed, and the fit began before
he had played his part, that he quaked with fear.

[Sidenote: Rejoices to 'die in the Light.']

Proclamation having been made by the Sheriffs, he addressed his audience. Tounson's, and another
account prepared, it would appear from a statement of the Dean's, for the Government by one
Crawford, do not materially differ. They seem both to be honest, if not fluent. He commenced
by explaining, not complaining, that he had the day before been taken from his bed in a strong
fit of fever, which might recur that morning. Therefore, he hoped they would ascribe any disability
of voice or dejection of look to that, and not to dismay of mind. Hereupon he paused and sat
down. Beginning again to speak he fancied they in the balcony did not hear. So he said he would
raise his voice. Arundel replied that the company would rather come down to the scaffold. Northampton,
Doncaster, and himself descended, mounted the scaffold, and shook hands with Ralegh. I thank
Him, too, that my fever hath not taken me at this time.' He proceeded to excuse his counterfeit
sickness at Salisbury: 'It was only to prolong the time till his Majesty came, in hopes of
some commiseration from him.' He dwelt more seriously on two or three main points of suspicion
conceived by the King against him. They, he believed, had specially hastened his doom. One
was connected with his supposed intrigues with France. He gave an indignant denial to this
charge of practices with foreigners, at any rate without the qualification expressed in the
testamentary note he had composed during the night, 'unknowing to the King.' The mistrust had,
he was aware, been strengthened by his projects of flight from Plymouth and London. Those luckless
schemes had, he asserted, no affinity to thoughts of permanent expatriation and foreign service.
Simply he had reckoned that he could more easily make his peace at home while he was safe at
a distance. Another cause of odium had been Manourie's tale of his habit of reviling the King.
That he declared mere lying: 'It is,' he said, 'no time for me to flatter, or to fear, princes,
I who am subject only unto death; yet, if ever I spake disloyally or dishonestly of the King,
the Lord blot me out of the book of life.'

[Sidenote: Denial of Stukely's Calumnies.]

Even at this supreme moment he respected the Throne, as much from real reverence for Royalty,
as from fear of harm after him to wife and child. He did not repeat his protest against the
mock conviction of 1603. He uttered no scorn of the King's betrayal to the Court of Spain of
the plan of his expedition. In general he was content to defend himself; he was sparing of
attacks. Only his 'keeper and kinsman,' Stukely, he could not pass over in silence. Having
received the Sacrament he forgave the man; but he held himself bound to caution the world against
him, out of charity to others. He repudiated warmly a calumny against Carew and Doncaster,
that they had advised him to fly. He ridiculed the transparent mendacity of Stukely's story
of a promise of £10,000; for 'if I had £1000, I could have made my peace better with it than
by giving it to Stukely.' He disclaimed indignantly the statement Stukely had attributed to
him, that he had been poisoned at Parham's house. Sir Edward Parham, he said, had been a follower
of his; Parham's wife was his cousin-german; and Parham's cook once was his. As untrue was
the story that he had been conveyed into England against his will. On the contrary, 150 soldiers
held him a close prisoner in his cabin. They extorted an oath that he would not go to England
without their consent; 'otherwise, they would have cast me into the sea.' Unless he had won
over the master-gunner, and ten or twelve others, to return home, and had drawn the ship to
the south of Ireland, he had never got from them. It had even been alleged that he never meant
to go to Guiana, and that he knew of no gold mine; that his intention only was to recover his
liberty, which he had not the wit to keep. But his friends had believed in his honesty when
he started. He reminded Arundel of the Earl's request in the gallery of the Destiny that, whether
the voyage were good or bad, he would return to England. Thereupon he had given his word that
he would. 'So you did,' cried Arundel; 'it is true, and they were the last words I said to
you.' Next, he alluded to the slander, circulated 'through the jealousy of the people,' that
at the execution of Essex he had stood in a window over against him and puffed out tobacco
in defiance of him. He contradicted it utterly. Essex could not have seen him, since he had
retired to the Armoury. He had bewailed him with tears. So, I take my leave of you all, making
my peace with God.' 'I have,' he said, 'a long journey to take, and must bid the company farewell.'

[Sidenote: Preparing for the Block.]

With that the Sheriffs ordered that all should depart from the scaffold, where he was left
with them, the Dean, and the executioner. Having given his hat and money to some attendants,
he prepared himself for the block, permitting no help. There being a delay, he chid the headsman,
'I prithee, let me see it!' Fingering the edge, he remarked to the Sheriffs with a smile: 'This
is a sharp medicine; but it is a sure cure for all diseases.' Then, going to and fro upon the
scaffold upon every side, he entreated the spectators to pray to God to bestow on him strength.
Arundel he asked, as if he expected the wish to be granted by James, to 'desire the King that
no scandalous writings to defame him might be published after his death.' To a question from
Tounson he replied that he died in the faith professed by the Church of England, and hoped
to have his sins washed away by the precious blood of our Saviour Christ.

Finally, the executioner spread his own cloak for him to kneel on, and, falling down, besought
his forgiveness. Ralegh laid his hand on the man's shoulder, and granted it. To the inquiry
whether he would not lay himself eastwards on the block, he replied: 'So the heart be right,
it is no matter which way the head lies.' But he placed himself towards the east, as his friends
wished it. He refused the executioner's offer to blindfold him: 'Think you I fear the shadow
of the axe, when I fear not itself?' He told the man to strike when he should stretch forth
his hands. With a parting salutation to the whole goodly company, he ejaculated: 'give me heartily
your prayers.' After a brief pause he signed that he was ready. The executioner stirred not.
'What dost thou fear? Strike man, strike!' commanded Ralegh. The executioner plucked up courage,
struck, and at two blows, the first mortal, the head was severed. As it tumbled the lips moved,
still in prayer; the trunk never shrank. An effusion of blood followed, so copious as to indicate
that the kingdom had been robbed of many vigorous years of a great life.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPOILS AND PENALTIES.

[Sidenote: The Remains.]

A shudder is said to have run through the crowd of spectators as the axe fell. The trunk was
carried from the scaffold to St. Margaret's Church, and buried in front of the Communion table.
A single line in the burial register, 'Sir Walter Rawleigh Kt.,' records the interment. James
Harrington, author of Oceana, occupies the next grave. Why Ralegh's body was not taken to Beddington
is unknown. Long afterwards a wooden tablet was fixed by a churchwarden on the wall of the
south aisle of the chancel. A metal plate framed, and painted blue with gilt letters, was substituted.
In 1845 that was replaced by one of brass, at the expense of several admirers of Ralegh's genius.
It bears the uninspired words: 'Within the chancel of this church was interred the body of
the great Sir Walter Ralegh, on the day he was beheaded in Old Palace Yard, Westminster, October
29, 1618. Reader, should you reflect on his errors, remember his many virtues, and that he
was a Mortal.' Four verses from the pen of Mr. Lowell, inscribed on a painted window, erected
a few years since in the church, more worthily commemorate the piety of American citizens to
the planter of Virginia.

The head was shown by the executioner on each side of the scaffold, as the head of a traitor.
Afterwards it was inclosed in a red velvet bag. With the velvet gown enveloping the whole,
it was conveyed to Lady Ralegh's house in a mourning coach which she had sent. It was embalmed;
and she kept it ever by her for the twenty-nine years of her widowhood. Bishop Goodman of Gloucester,
who, though King James's poor-spirited apologist, admired Ralegh, relates that he had seen
and kissed it. On Lady Ralegh's death the charge of it descended to Carew Ralegh. It has been
stated, and has been denied, that it was buried with him at West Horsley, and was seen when
the grave happened to be opened. For another story, that finally it was deposited with the
body at Westminster, there is no authority.

[Sidenote: Carew Ralegh.]

Lady Ralegh lived to educate her son. For his sake she strove for Ralegh's books. They were,
she said, 'all the land and living which he left his poor child, hoping that he would inherit
him in those only, and that he would apply himself by learning to be fit for them, which request
I hope I shall fulfil as far as in me lieth.' Carew was thirteen at his father's death. In
the spring of 1621, at the age of sixteen, he entered Wadham College as a gentleman commoner.
When he quitted Oxford his relative, Lord Pembroke, who more than twenty years before had interceded
at Wilton for his father's life, introduced him at Court. James frowned; he said he was like
his father's ghost. He travelled, and, returning next year on the accession of Charles, petitioned
for restoration in blood. His prayer was granted only on the obligatory terms of his surrender
of any title to Sherborne. In compensation he received a reversion of the £400 a year, Lady
Ralegh's Treasury allowance in place of jointure or dower from Sherborne. By the same statute
which relieved him from the legal disabilities of the attainder Sherborne was confirmed to
the Digby family. He married the wealthy young widow of Sir Anthony Ashley, his father's comrade
at Cadiz, and had by her two sons, Walter and Philip, and three daughters. He wrote poems,
one of which was set to music by Henry Lawes, and was a Gentleman of the Privy Chamber. In
that capacity he attended Charles I when a prisoner at Hampton Court. He may have thought of
Charles rather as the brother of Prince Henry than as the son of King James.

He seems to have dreamt of recovering both his father's Irish and English estates. Strafford,
on behalf of the Church, had questioned the soundness of Boyle's title to Lismore. The doubt
of the validity of Boyle's tenure, though it equally affected Sir Walter's right, may have
suggested to Carew somewhat later an attack on him in his own interest, probably on the score
of the inadequacy of the price paid to Ralegh. Lady Ralegh had already, in 1619, set up a claim
to dower, on the ground that her consent to the sale in 1602 had not been obtained. Boyle intimated
that he should meet Lady Ralegh's demand by the legal objection that the wife of an attainted
man is not dowerable. But, on the merits, he insisted in answer, as well to her as, afterwards,
to Carew Ralegh, that he had in fact, between 1602 and 1617, given ample pecuniary consideration.
Neither she nor her son went beyond a protest.

[Sidenote: Claim to Sherborne.]

Carew was more pertinacious in his efforts to recover Sherborne. That was supposed to have
been forfeited by the flight of Digby, now Lord Bristol, to France on the establishment of
the Commonwealth. Carew petitioned the House of Commons for its restitution to himself. His
petition, which in details was not everywhere as accurate, expressed righteous indignation
at an attainder obtained on charges 'without any proofs, and in themselves as ridiculous as
impossible.' He declared in the document his intention to 'range himself under the banner of
the Commons of England.' The memorial was referred to the committee for the sale of the estates
of delinquents. That reported him 'a fit object of the mercy of the House.' But he advanced
no further, in consequence, as is believed, of the influence Lord Bristol was still able to
exert. Monk conferred on him the Government of Jersey, and Charles II offered him knighthood,
which he waived. Sir Henry Wotton, as quoted by Anthony Wood, commended him as of 'dexterous
abilities.' Wood, while he does not dissent, adds that he was 'far, God wot, from his father's
parts, either as to the sword or pen.' At least he understood his father's greatness, and clung
proudly to his memory.

[Sidenote: Blood Money.]

From Walter Ralegh, at all events, if not from his family, his enemies and persecutors, with
their parasites, might think they at last were freed. Their perseverance had been unwearied.
For fifteen years they were pursuing him, and they had hunted him down. They had shown versatility
as well as virulence. As his son Carew has said, they had obtained his condemnation as a friend
to Spain, and his execution, under the same sentence, for being its enemy. Now all, old bloodhounds
and young, proceeded to enjoy their hard-won victory. To commence at the bottom, Manourie,
'a French physician, lately sent for from Plymouth,' as early as November received his wages,
£20. Sir Lewis Stukely's expectations and deserts were larger. While he lingered at Plymouth
he had disposed of part of the stores from Ralegh's ship. Sir Ferdinando Gorges and others
completed the work for the Crown as soon as Ralegh had been executed. Some of the tobacco had
been brought to London, and sold by Stukely. Ralegh accused him of appropriation of the proceeds.
He had accepted gifts of jewels from his prisoner on the journey. To his custody were entrusted
the trinkets carried by Ralegh about him on the flight to Gravesend. On December 29 the Exchequer
was ordered to pay to him 'for performance of his service and expenses in bringing up hither
out of Devonshire the person of Sir Walter Ralegh, £965 6s. 3d.'

One more of the hirelings expected to be paid, the Keeper of State Papers. Wilson had failed
to spy out treason in Ralegh's talk in the seclusion of the Tower, or in the correspondence
with Lady Ralegh. He did not the less crave a fee for his good intentions of treachery. James
recognized his claims, to the inexpensive extent of an order to the Fellows of Caius College,
Cambridge, in January, 1619, to elect him to their vacant Mastership. The King's letter described
him as a man of learning and sufficiency, who had performed faithful service. The letter, as
an indorsement by Wilson notes, was never sent. Perhaps the Fellows were found to be prepared
to put to the test the King's assertion that he would 'take no denial.' Balked of academical
alms, Sir Thomas was driven to importunities three quarters of a year later for payment of
his wages for the six weeks' attendance upon Ralegh.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's Library, and Instruments.]

He was more promptly successful in rapacity for the public, it must be admitted, than for himself.
Ralegh had stripped himself, or been stripped, before his death, of any possessions ordinarily
recognized as available for spoil. His cargo and stores had been seized and converted into
money by Stukely, or by other Devonshire officials. His ship had been brought into the Thames
as Crown property. The Government accounted itself generous for granting to the widow, in lieu
of it and its contents, £2250, the bare equivalent of the purchase money of her Mitcham estate
which she had expended upon its equipment. Nothing remained of his but his papers, his instruments,
and his books. Covetous eyes were fixed upon them. Wilson wanted them, though, it is fair to
say, not for himself. As Keeper of the Records he had a sincere taste for curious books. He
urged the King to appropriate Ralegh's library of three hundred volumes on history, divinity,
and mathematics, together with Cobham's collection of a thousand. By royal warrant in November
he was authorised to seize the whole. The globes and mathematical instruments were to be delivered
to the King or the Lord Admiral. The books were to be 'left where they were'; that is, it is
to be presumed, they were to remain in the Tower. As if in shame the warrant assigned a reason
for the confiscation of Ralegh's library. It could, it alleged, be of 'small use to Sir Walter's
surviving wife.' Lady Ralegh judged differently. She implored Lady Carew, who was acquainted
with Wilson, to mediate with him that she might be 'no more troubled, having had so many unspeakable
losses, as none of worth will seek to molest me.' Before the end of 1618 Wilson had fetched
away all the mathematical instruments, one of which had cost £100. Lady Ralegh had, she affirmed,
been promised their return, but had not recovered one. He was now requiring the books. She
would not grudge them, she asseverated, for his Majesty, if they were rare, and not to be had
elsewhere; but Boyle, the bookbinder or stationer, had, she was informed, the very same. The
ultimate result of the aggression and her resistance is not known. It might be of public interest
if it could be ascertained. In addition to printed volumes Wilson had asked for the sequestration
of Ralegh's manuscript treatise on the Art of War, and of a full account by him of all the
world's seaports, and for their deposit in the State Paper Office. He could value thoughtful
work, though he persecuted its author. Diligently as the State Papers have of recent years
been explored, it is not impossible that the two compositions may yet be discovered, carefully
buried in a mass of worthless muniments by their spy-keeper.

[Sidenote: Spanish Debt of Gratitude to James.]

James had his share too of the immediate profits from the tragedy of Palace Yard, over and
above a few more or less scarce books. Apart from his incurable private aversion for one of
the three greatest Englishmen of his reign, he had, in butchering Ralegh, been the direct agent
of the Spanish Court. From Spain he sought his real reward. He enhanced his demand by the immensity
of the loss he had inflicted upon England. Cottington, the instant the news of the execution
reached the Legation, told the Spanish King. Philip III showed, he reported, much contentment
with the hearing. Rushworth, in his Historical Collections, has preserved a letter described
as from a great Minister of State to Cottington. In it the English Agent in Spain was urgently
instructed to enforce upon the Spaniards their debt of gratitude to James, who had 'caused
Sir Walter Ralegh to be put to death, chiefly for the giving them satisfaction.' He was to
let them see 'how in many actions of late his Majesty had strained upon the affections of his
people, and especially in this last concerning Sir Walter Ralegh, who died with a great deal
of courage and constancy. To give them content, he had not spared a man able to have done his
Majesty much service, when, by preserving him, he might have given great satisfaction to his
subjects, and have had at command upon all occasions as useful a man as served any prince in
Christendom.' A fitting response was made. Cottington was able to report 'so much satisfaction
and contentment as I am not able to express it.' The Spanish Council of State admitted the
obligation to James for the sacrifice of the brightest jewel of his Crown. It advised Philip
to thank the King of England by an autograph letter. That was James's payment.

[Sidenote: Odium of Stukely.]

Ralegh's various persecutors were in the right to enjoy their victory betimes. They had not
the opportunity for long. The country awoke at a bound to the injury which had been done it.
On the miserable tools it first poured out its indignation. Long before the final catastrophe
its anger had been gathering against Stukely. On August 20 Chamberlain wrote to Carleton that
Sir Lewis Stukely was generally decried. After the execution no measure in execrations was
observed. He was christened Sir Judas. Stories, probably fictitious, of the contempt with which
he was visited, were greedily devoured. 'Every man in Court,' it was reported, 'declines Stukely's
company as treacherous.' The High Admiral, who himself had battened on plunder from Ralegh,
was rumoured to have threatened to cudgel the betrayer from his door. Stukely had been visiting
Nottingham House on some duty connected with his office of Vice-Admiral of Devon. He complained
to the King, who befriended him, of the affronts he received. The answer was said to have been:
'Were I disposed to hang every one that speaks ill of thee, there would not be trees enough
in all my kingdom to hang them on.' According to another tale, reported by J. Pory to Carleton,
the King replied to his protestation of the truth of his accusations: 'I have done amiss; Sir
Walter's blood be upon thy head.' In vain he endeavoured to defend himself through the press.
On August 10 he had printed a short Apology for his conduct as Ralegh's keeper. In it he took
up the only practicable ground, that he had simply obeyed the orders of the Crown. After Ralegh's
execution he was stung by the obloquy he had incurred into the publication of a formal indictment
of the memory of the dead. On November 26 appeared a rhetorical document, which he had retained
the Rev. Dr. Sharpe to help him in drawing up. It was entitled the 'Humble Petition and Information
of Sir Lewis Stukely, touching his own behaviour in the charge committed to him for the bringing
up of Sir Walter Ralegh, and the scandalous aspersions cast upon him for the same.' Fact and
fiction are audaciously mingled in the narrative. As a specimen of its temper may be mentioned
the statement that Ralegh in the Gate-house asked its keeper, Weekes, if any Romish priests
were under his charge. The insinuation was that the Protestant hero would have liked an opportunity
of reconciliation to the Church of Rome before his death.

[Sidenote: A Convicted Criminal.]

Such calumnies increased the popular wrath. The whole nation exulted in the tidings within
a few months that their author was about to be indicted for the capital offence of clipping
coin. Manourie was arrested at Plymouth on the same charge. He accused his friend, whose old
confederate in clipping and sweating coin he had been. By way, it is to be feared, of embellishment
of a tale of righteous retaliation, it was reported that Sir Lewis had been caught on Twelfth
Night within the precincts of the Palace of Whitehall in the act of clipping the very gold
pieces, the wages of his perfidy, paid to him on the previous New Year's eve. He was confined
first in the Gate-house, and then in the Tower, in Ralegh's old cell, and in due course was
tried. Fruitlessly he endeavoured to shift the crime on his son, who had absconded. A servant
confessed his master had followed the practice for the past seven years. The evidence was overwhelming,
and he was convicted. It was a 'just judgment of God,' men said, 'for Sir Walter Ralegh's blood.'
James, Mr. Gardiner says, 'thought he owed something to his tool, and flung him a pardon.'
According to the popular rumour it was a gift for a tangible consideration. He had to beggar
himself to buy it. His office of Vice-Admiral of Devon was forfeited, and it was filled by
Eliot. He slunk away first to his home at Afton, where all, gentle and poor, banned him, and
thence to Lundy Isle. There, amid the ruins of Morisco's Castle, he died mad on August 29,
1620. His treason has conferred on his obscure name an infamous immortality. He was equally
an enemy to himself and to King James, whom his accommodating perfidy tempted to perpetrate
the final injustice. But it must be remembered that but for him Ralegh would have lingered
for a few years more of weary life on foreign soil, and dropped into an unhonoured grave. To
him English history is indebted for a heroic scene, and Ralegh for a glorious close to his
splendid but checkered career. The mind shudders at the thought of the bathos into which a
little remorse in that contemptible villain would have plunged his victim.

[Sidenote: Manourie's Defence.]

Public vengeance was not satisfied with the self-wrought retribution on Stukely. It ranged
lower, and it ranged higher. It condescended to spurn the tool of a tool. Manourie, too, had
to publish his apology. He called God to witness that Stukely had bribed him to lay traps for
Ralegh, and to put into his mouth malcontent speeches. All the evil he told of his ally was
believed. His professions that his own admitted baseness had been provoked by resentment of
Ralegh's spontaneous abuse of the King were received with incredulity or unconcern. On the
fact, Captain King's word in his Narrative in answer to Manourie was accepted in preference
to the Frenchman's. The Narrative was not printed, but circulated extensively in manuscript.
Though it is no longer discoverable, Oldys seems to have read it, and he has quoted passages
in his life of Ralegh. 'Never,' in it asseverated King, 'in all the years I followed Sir Walter,
heard I him name his Majesty but with reverence. I am sorry the assertion of that man should
prevail so much against the dead.' He need not have feared that it had prevailed, or would
prevail, with the nation. That scarcely spared a thought to Manourie, unless to curse him as
a mercenary liar. But in the emotion stirred by Ralegh's death it was soon evident that the
people had grown indifferent to the degree of its hero's personal loyalty, or the reverse.
The flood of enthusiasm for him swept away the interest in his guilt or innocence in respect
of particular charges. Public opinion hallowed him as saint and martyr, and put the Court and
Government on their defence.

[Sidenote: The Royal Declaration.]

[Sidenote: Bacon's part in it.]

The vehemence and volume of national emotion at the abandonment of Ralegh to the spite of a
faction were a surprise to the King and his advisers. They seemed unable to comprehend its
character and direction. They believed, or pretended to believe, that a demand was being raised
for a new trial of his offences. They could not, or would not, see that the only question was
of the distribution of punishment among his persecutors. Something, however, manifestly had
to be done, and at once. One purpose of Stukely's Petition had been to pave the way for a 'declaration
from the State,' for which the Petitioner formally asked. The Committee of the Council had
recommended in Coke's paper of October 18, and the King had approved, the issue of such a manifesto
simultaneously with the despatch of Ralegh to the scaffold. Its preparation had been immediately
taken in hand. The reason for the delay in publication is unknown. Probably the royal editor
was extremely fastidious. Whatever the cause of the procrastination, at last, on November 27,
the day after Stukely's Petition, an apology appeared with the authority of the Crown. James
himself supplied part of the contents, 'additions,' wrote Bacon to Villiers, 'which were very
material, and fit to proceed from his Majesty.' Naunton and Yelverton also assisted in the
composition. The arrangement of arguments and, though marred by royal and other interpolations,
the diction have been traced to the serviceable hand of the Lord Chancellor. Ralegh and Bacon
had long been intimate with one another. They had never been enemies, or even rivals. In his
History Ralegh had cited with applause Bacon's Advancement of Learning, and other works. He
had testified that no man had taught the laws of history better, and with greater brevity,
than that excellent learned gentleman. Bacon fully reciprocated the admiration. He snatched
at opportunities for placing on record his delight in Sir Walter's pretty wit, and adventurous
spirit. If it be an excuse for his share in the persecution of the man and his memory, he was
animated by no personal antipathy. But his skill had been retained for those who were hounding
Ralegh to death, as it had been retained for the destruction of his old patron Essex. He did
not now let his conscience afflict itself at the thought that he was about to gloss an act,
which a historian, not very friendly to the sufferer, has said 'can hardly be dignified with
the title of a judicial murder.' Neither passion, pique, nor fear, inspired his pen. His function
in official life, as he interpreted it, was to be the advocate of authority; his feeling for
any but scientific truth was never acute; and he had positive pleasure in the employment of
his intellectual dexterity, whatever the object. Acting on that system he did the best he could
with the case put before him on the present occasion. His and its misfortune was that it was
irretrievably bad. His instructions were that Ralegh had gained his pardon by a lie; that there
was no Mine, and that he never supposed there was any; that he went to harry and plunder Spaniards,
and for nothing else; when he found spoil was not to be had as easily as he had anticipated,
he had determined to desert his men, and fly to the East Indies, or stay behind in Newfoundland.
The King was supposed to have, with his wonted and infallible sagacity, made the discovery
of Ralegh's knavery long since. That royal hypothesis of stark imposture, and no enthusiasm,
was the clue which the Lords Commissioners, with Bacon at their head, had obsequiously borrowed
to hale Ralegh to the scaffold. It was the strange sophism out of which Bacon again was set
to compose a sedative for the popular emotion.

[Sidenote: His Majesty's Honour and Justice.]

[Sidenote: His Princely Judgment.]

He had to begin by apologizing for the King, both to the indignant nation and to the King's
own injured sense of consistency. He had to try to extricate his master from the cruel dilemma,
either of having been an accomplice in a scheme now denounced by himself as a pirate's conspiracy,
or of having betrayed, out of cowardice and cupidity, a faithful servant to foreign vengeance.
That is the meaning of the exordium of this pamphlet published in November by the King's Printers,
Bonham Norton and John Bill: 'Although Kings be not bound to give account of their actions
to any but God alone; yet such are his Majesty's proceedings, as he hath always been willing
to bring them before sun and moon, and carefully to satisfy all his good people with his intentions
and courses, giving as well to future times as to the present true and undisguised declarations
of them; as judging, that for actions not well founded it is advantage to let them pass in
uncertain reports, but for actions that are built upon sure and solid grounds, such as his
Majesty's are, it belongeth to them to be published by open manifestos. Especially, his Majesty
is willing to declare and manifest to the world his proceedings in a case of such a nature
as this which followeth is; since it not only concerns his own people, but also a foreign prince
and state abroad. Accordingly, therefore, for that which concerneth Sir Walter, late executed
for treason--leaving the thoughts of his heart, and the protestations that he made at his death,
to God that is the Searcher of all hearts, and the Judge of all truth--his Majesty hath thought
fit to manifest unto the world how things appeared unto himself, and upon what proofs and evident
matter, and the examination of the commanders that were employed with him in the voyage--and
namely of those which Sir Walter Ralegh himself, by his own letter to Secretary Winwood, had
commended for persons of worth and credit, and as most fit for greater employments--his Majesty's
proceedings have been grounded; whereby it will evidently appear how agreeable they have been
in all points to honour and justice. Sir Walter Ralegh having been condemned of high treason
at his Majesty's entrance into this kingdom; and for the space of fourteen years, by his Majesty's
princely clemency and mercy, not only spared from his execution, but permitted to live as in
liberâ custodiâ in the Tower, and to enjoy his lands and living, till all was by law evicted
from him upon another ground, and not by forfeiture--which notwithstanding his Majesty out
of his abundant grace gave him a competent satisfaction for the same--at length he fell upon
an enterprise of a golden mine in Guiana. This proposition of his was presented and recommended
to his Majesty by Sir Ralph Winwood, then Secretary of State, as a matter not in the air or
speculative, but real and of certainty; for that Sir Walter Ralegh had seen of the ore of the
mine with his eyes, and tried the richness of it. It is true that his Majesty, in his own princely
judgment, gave no belief unto it; as well for that his Majesty was verily persuaded that in
nature there are no such mines of gold entire, as they described this to be; and if any such
had been, it was not probable that the Spaniards, who were so industrious in the chase of treasure,
would have neglected it so long; as also for that it proceeded from the person of Sir Walter
Ralegh, invested with such circumstances both of his disposition and fortune. Those were carefully
culled which made for a given conclusion. Incompatible evidence was omitted altogether. The
'Declaration of the Demeanour and Carriage of Sir Walter Ralegh, as well in his Voyage as in
and since his Return, and of the true motives and inducements which occasioned his Majesty
to proceed in doing justice upon him, as hath been done,' is a shuffling excuse for a baseness.
The mass of it is an accumulation of hearsay evidence. Its chief object was to depict Ralegh
as a man whom nobody need regret; to sneer away his lustre and dignity. With this sordid view
the trivial episode of the malingering scene at Salisbury is described with sickening minuteness.
Few writers of authority have ventured to applaud the treatise. An exception is Mr. Spedding,
who could not well let judgment pass against his idol without a word of defence for one of
the worst blemishes in a pitiful official career. He shows here as elsewhere his admirable
diligence in the collection of evidence; but he cannot be said to have shed any new light either
on Ralegh's character, or on the part Bacon played in his slaughter, and in the endeavour to
blacken his memory. For him both the King and the keeper of the King's conscience had no option
but to put Ralegh to death. According to him the King's sanction of warlike preparations implied
no understanding that it might be necessary to use them. According to him the commission to
conduct an armed squadron and soldiery to a mine on the banks of the Orinoko conveyed no right
to break a hostile Spanish blockade of the river. According to him, though in defiance of contemporary
testimony, Ralegh alone employed violence; the San Thome garrison 'offered no provocation whatever,
except an attitude of self-defence.' On these principles, while he laments the tardiness of
its appearance, he necessarily considers the Declaration straightforward, honest, and convincing.
National opinion judged differently. It treated the whole as a piece of special pleading. In
fairness it must be granted that, had it been much more cogent, it would have had as little
effect. Chamberlain had prophetically written to Carleton on November 21, while it was known
to be in process of composition, that it 'will not be believed, unless it be well proved.'

CHAPTER XXXII.

CONTEMPORARY AND FINAL JUDGMENTS.

[Sidenote: Popular Indignation.]

[Sidenote: Its Durability.]

More judicious or less prejudiced observers than James and his confidants would have suspected
earlier the rise of the popular tide of sympathy and indignation. Strangers had remarked the
tendency before the execution. A Spanish Dominican friar in England on a secret political mission
had, Chamberlain told Carleton in October, been labouring for Ralegh's life from dread of the
ill-will towards Spain which his death would cause. Many Englishmen were much nimbler than
official and officious courtiers in perceiving the blunder. A great lord in the Tower, who
may be presumed to have been Northumberland, another correspondent of Carleton's told him,
had observed that, if the Spanish match went on, Spain had better have given £100,000 than
have had him killed; and if not, that England had better have given £100,000 than have killed
him. Pory assured Carleton, writing on October 31, that Ralegh's death would do more harm to
the faction that procured it than ever he did in his life. As soon as his head was off, the
authorities had to be hard at work suppressing ballads which were being sung in the streets
against his adversaries. The jeer of the London goldsmith, Wiemark, 'the constant Paul's-walker,'
that he wished such a head as had just been severed from Ralegh's body had been on Master Secretary's
shoulders, was but a sample of a storm of sarcasms upon the Government which ran through the
town. The anger displayed by Naunton and Villiers a couple of years later at the appearance
of so poor a satire as Captain Gainsford's Vox Spiritus, or Sir Walter Ralegh's Ghost, which
was being circulated in manuscript, and their zeal in suppressing it, testify to the durability
of the alarm excited in the Court. It was no momentary and evanescent impulse. Dean Tounson
had written on November 9, of Ralegh's execution, that 'it left a great impression on the minds
of those that beheld him; inasmuch that Sir Lewis Stukely and the Frenchman grow very odious.
This was the news a week since; but now it is blown over, and he almost forgotten.' The good
Dean underrated the solidity and reasonableness of English feeling. The nation might not care
to linger over creatures like Stukely and Manourie, even to execrate them. Its grief for Ralegh
was a lasting sentiment. A spectator of his death declared that his Christian and truthful
manner on the scaffold made all believe that he was not guilty of treason nor of malpractices.
So sudden a conversion of the kingdom to faith in his innocence and heroism would have been
almost as irrational as the original acquiescence without proof in his criminality, had it
been as abrupt as it seemed. It would have been as short-lived as Dean Tounson anticipated,
if its growth had been as gourd-like. In fact the nation only at the instant ascertained the
state of its mind. The mood itself had been in course of formation for years.

[Sidenote: Popular Forgetfulness.]

Ralegh, as we have seen, had been cordially detested in his day of ascendency. All a reign's
odium naturally condenses itself upon a royal favourite. His elaborate courtesy did not produce
the effect of affability. His lavishness was thought ostentation. His good nature, for he was
good natured, had too much an air of condescension. The scorn of rivals or his superiors in
rank he met with scorn. His exploits by land and sea, as impartial critics noted, heightened
instead of pacifying malignity. Later exposure to settled Court dislike blunted the edge of
popular enmity; it hardly turned it into kindness. The national attitude towards Ralegh, downtrodden
and harassed, long showed curiosity more than affection. The kingdom wondered what he was doing,
or would do. Formerly it had believed, with repugnance, in his ability to extricate himself
from all difficulties, whether of war or of intrigue. It retained the same faith in the indomitable
resources of the prisoner of the Tower, without much active sympathy, though without antipathy.
He died; and the wonder, the observant admiration flamed into a fury of passionate regret.
For six and thirty years Ralegh had been before its eyes, and in its thoughts, for good or
evil. It could not imagine him not at its service; and he was irreparably gone. A reserve of
force, upon which the nation unconsciously had depended in the event of any emergency, had
been thrown away. A light in England had been extinguished. The people forgot how it had misconstrued
and reviled him. It forgot how passively it had borne to see him worried by malicious rivals
and upstart strangers. On the instant he became for it the representative of an era of national
glory sacrificed to sordid machinations. The executioner's axe in Palace Yard scattered a film
which had dimmed the sight of Englishmen for an entire generation. Death vindicated on Ralegh's
own behalf its title to his panegyric: 'O eloquent, just, and mighty Death!'

[Sidenote: An Idol of the Constitutional Party.]

The nation persisted in grieving for him. The instruments of his destruction, courtiers and
Ministers, it pursued with a storm of immediate hatred. Loyalty or awe of the Prerogative secured
the Sovereign's person for the time from open reproaches. The country was willing to suppose
that the King had been misled by evil counsellors, and had quickly repented of the iniquity.
Spain, two years later, assisted Austria to dethrone the Elector Palatine and his Stuart wife.
A story was invented that James, in anger at the news, exclaimed he would demand the Spanish
general's head. A courtier, it was fabled, dared to question whether Philip would be as facile
and obliging as James had been. 'Then I wish,' groaned James, 'that Ralegh's head were again
on his shoulders.' Posterity has been less ready to make any excuse for James, even the excuse
of a selfish contrition. His memory has paid with interest for his escape at first from his
rightful share in the obloquy. His injustice as an individual weakened the national faith in
royalty. The wrongs suffered from the State caused Ralegh to be regarded as a martyr to freedom,
which he was not. The growing party of champions of constitutional liberties watched over and
exalted his fame. Pym, in his note-book of Memorable Accidents, has entered under the year
1618: 'Sir Walter Ralegh had the favour to be beheaded at Westminster, where he died with great
applause of the beholders, most constantly, most Christianly, most religiously.' Hampden could
not bear that any fragments of his writing should be lost. Cromwell pored over his History.
Milton printed his essays. Eliot at the date of the execution was twenty-eight. He had long
been a friend, and still followed the fortunes, of Villiers. He did not belong yet to the popular
party. So far was he from forgetting the spectacle in a week that, many years after, he recalled
the whole in a glow of enthusiasm both for the King's victim and the Devon hero. He wrote in
the Monarchy of Man, which he did not complete till 1631, that all history scarcely contained
a parallel to the fortitude of 'our Ralegh'; that the placid courage of 'that great soul,'
while it turned to sorrow the joy of the enemies who had come to witness his sufferings, filled
all men else with emotion; 'leaving with them only this doubt, whether death were more acceptable
to him, or he more welcome unto death.'

Something both of political and religious partisanship mixed with and exalted the zeal of Pym,
Hampden, Eliot, Cromwell, and Milton for the foe of Jesuits and Bishops, the scapegoat of a
Stuart's infatuation for Spain, the survivor of a Court which had believed in the present grandeur
of England, and a future more splendid still. The feeling was wonderfully tenacious. Ralegh
remained for the generation which witnessed his death, and for the next also, the patriot scourge
of a still detested Spain. Gradually that especial ground of kindness for him subsided, along
with the aversion on which it rested. English hatred of Spain has long been so obsolete a sentiment
as to be virtually inconceivable. Not many care to thread the mazes of the plots he was alleged
to have countenanced, or of those contrived against him. His acts have been relegated to a
side channel of history. Yet for Englishmen his figure keeps its prominence and radiance. It
is the more conspicuous for the poverty of the period in which a large and calamitous part
of his career was spent. As the student plods along one of the dreariest wastes of the national
annals, his name gleams across the tedious page. When from time to time he flits over the stage,
the quagmire of Court intrigues and jobbing favouritism is illuminated with a sparkle of romance.

[Sidenote: Perplexities.]

[Sidenote: Failures and Inconsistencies.]

He is among the most dazzling personalities in English history, and the most enigmatical. Not
an action ascribed to him, not a plan he is reputed to have conceived, not a date in his multifarious
career, but is matter of controversy. In view of the state of the national records in the last
century, it is scarcely strange that Gibbon himself should, after selecting him for a theme,
have recoiled from the task of marshalling the chaos of his 'obscure' deeds, a 'fame confined
to the narrow limits of our language and our island,' and 'a fund of materials not yet properly
manufactured.' Posterity and his contemporaries have equally been unable to agree on his virtues
and his vices, the nature of his motives, the spelling of his name, and the amount of his genius.
No man was ever less reticent about himself; and his confessions and apologies deepen the confusion.
He had a poet's inspiration; and his title to most of the verses ascribed to him is contested.
He was one of the creators of modern English prose; and his disquisitions have for two centuries
ceased to be read. He and Bacon are coupled by Dugald Stewart as eminent beyond their age for
their emancipation from the fetters of the Schoolmen, their originality, and the enlargement
of their scientific conceptions; and a single phrase, 'the fundamental laws of human knowledge,'
is the only philosophical idea connected with him. His name is entered, rightly, in the first
rank of discoverers, navigators, and planters, on account of two countries which he neither
found nor permanently colonized. He was a great admiral, who commanded in chief on one expedition
alone, and that miserably failed. He had in him the making of a great soldier, though his exploits
are lost in the dreary darkness of intestine French and Irish savageries. He was a master of
policy, and his loftiest office was that of Captain of the Guard. None could be kinder, or
more chivalrously generous, and he practised with complacency in Munster treachery and cruelty
which he abhorred in a Spaniard of Trinidad. He had the subtlest brain, and became the yokefellow
of a Cobham. He thirsted after Court favour, and wealth, and died attainted and landless. He
longed to scour the world for adventures, and spent a fourth part of his manhood in a gaol.
He laid the foundation of a married life characterized by an unbroken tenor of romantic trust
and devotion, by doing his wife the worst injury a woman can undergo. The star of his hopes
was the future of his elder son, and the boy squandered his life on an idle skirmish. He courted
admiration, and, till he was buried in prison or the grave, was the best hated man in the kingdom.

Had he been less vivacious and many-sided, he might have succeeded better, suffered less, and
accomplished more. With qualities less shining he would have escaped the trammels of Court
favouritism, and its stains. With powers less various he would have been content to be illustrious
in one line. As a poet he might have rivalled instead of patronizing Spenser. In prose he might
have surpassed the thoughtful majesty of Hooker. As an observer of nature he might have disputed
the palm with Bacon. He must have been recognized as endowed with the specific gifts of a statesman
or a general, if he had possessed none others as remarkable. But if less various he would have
been less attractive. If he had shone without a cloud in any one direction, he would not have
pervaded a period with the splendour of his nature, and become its type. More smoothness in
his fortunes would have shorn them of their tragic picturesqueness. Failure itself was needed
to colour all with the tints which surprise and captivate. He was not a martyr to forgive his
persecutors. He was not a hero to endure in silence, and without an effort at escape. His character
had many earthy streaks. His self-love was enormous. He could be shifty, wheedling, whining.
His extraordinary and indomitable perseverance in the pursuit of ends was crossed with a strange
restlessness and recklessness in the choice of means. His projects often ended in reverses
and disappointments. Yet, with all the shortcomings, no figure, no life gathers up in itself
more completely the whole spirit of an epoch; none more firmly enchains admiration for invincible
individuality, or ends by winning a more personal tenderness and affection.

INDEX.

  Abbot, George, Archbishop of Canterbury;
    previously Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield,
    and of London, 293, 344, 356, 367, 372.

  Acuña, Diego Palomeque de, 320, 321, 324.

  Æmilius, 278.

  Aguilar, Garcia de, 322.

  Albert, Archduke, 156, 186, 224, 251.

  Alexander the Great, 278.

  Allen, Thomas, 295.

  Alley, Captain Peter, 317, 322.

  Amadas, Captain Philip, 43, 45.

  Amazons, River of the, 270.

  Anderson, Sir Edmund, Chief Justice, 209.

  Andrewes, Lancelot, Bishop of Chichester, Ely, and Winchester, 336.

  Anjou, Francis, Duke of, 32, 33.

  Anne of Denmark, Queen, 237, 254, 260, 288-9, 294, 299, 339, 341,
    345, 367-8.

  Antiochus, King, 278.

  Antiquaries, Society of, 273.

  Antonio, Don, 67.

  Apology, Ralegh's, 304, 321, 324, 336-8.

  -- Manourie's, 388.

  -- Stukely's, 386-7.

  Apsley, or Appesley, Captain, 32.

  -- Sir Allen, 347-8, 358.

  -- Lady, ibid.

  Arenberg, or Aremberg, Count of, 186-193, 200, 207, 211, 215, 217-8,
    223, 226, 228.

  Arias, Montanus, 275.

  Ark Ralegh, 42, 82, 87.

  Armada, Invincible, 65-67.

  Artaxerxes, King, 277.

  Arundel, Thomas Howard, Earl of, 305, 310, 324, 332, 375-9.

  Ashley, Sir Anthony, 132, 381.

  Ashton, Roger, 230.

  Assapana, 320.

  Aubrey, John, 8, 58, 100, 104, 164, 180-1, 192, 258, 273, 282-3, 300.

  Avila, Pedro Melendez de, 43.

  Ayton, Sir Robert, 79.

  Azores, Truth of the Fight about the Isles of, 84, 269.

  Babington, Anthony, 39.

  Bacon, Francis, Lord Verulam, and Viscount St. Alban's, Lord Chancellor,
    8, 17, 47, 155, 277, 302-4, 344, 359, 364, 366, 369, 389-93, 398.

  -- Sir Anthony, 69, 126.

  Bainham, Sir Edward, 39.

  Bancroft, Richard, Bishop of London, Archbishop of Canterbury, 193.

  Barbary corsairs, 64, 315.

  Barlow, Captain Arthur, 44.

  Barry, David Fitzjames, Lord Barry, and Viscount Buttevant, 18, 314.

  Bassanière, Martin, 53.

  Basset, Elizabeth, 300.

  Bath, William Bourchier, Earl of, 34, 64.

  Bathurst, Mr., 162.

  Bayley, Captain, 315-6, 331-2, 357.

  Beauchamp, Lord, 34.

  Beaumont, Comte de, 182, 191, 194, 205, 227, 240.

  -- Comtesse de, 251.

  Bedford, John Russell, Earl of, 4.

  -- Francis Russell, Earl of, 34.

  -- Bridget, Dowager Countess of, 262.

  Beecher or Becher, William, 325.

  Beeston, Sir Hugh, 371.

  Belle, 308.

  Belphoebe, 75.

  Berreo, Antonio de, 109, 113, 119, 23, 320.

  -- Fernando de, 320.

  Berry, Captain Leonard, 161.

  Best, John, 108.

  'Beyond the Line,' 315, 356.

  Bibliography, Ralegh, 269.

  Bilson, Thomas, Bishop of Worcester, and Winchester, 237.

  Bingham, Sir Richard, 64.

  Biron, Marshal Charles de Gontaut, Duc de, 156.

  Bisseaux, de, 308.

  Blackstone, Mr. Justice, Sir William, 285.

  Blount, Charles, Lord Mountjoy, Earl of Devonshire, 69, 134, 209,
    219, 221.

  -- Sir Christopher, husband of dowager Countess of Essex, 130, 137,
    146, 149.

  -- Mr., 97, 98.

  Bodleian Library, 131, 273.

  Bolingbroke, Henry St. John, Viscount, 269.

  Bothwell, Francis Stuart, Earl of, 152.

  Boyle, Richard, Lord Boyle, and Earl of Cork, 162-3, 265, 314-5, 330,
    369, 382.

  Bravo, Isle of, 316.

  Breviary of the History of England, 271-2.

  Brewer, Professor Rev. John, 195.

  Brooke, George, 186, 188, 192-3, 208, 229;
    execution, 236, 239.

  Brooksby, 208.

  Broughton, Rev. Hugh, 126.

  Brown, Rawdon, 310.

  Brushfield, Dr. T.N., 2, 31, 105, 269, 281.

  Bullen, Mr. George, 80.

  Burgh, or Brough, Sir John, 87, 96, 97.

  Burhill, Rev. Robert, 273.

  Burleigh, or Burghley, William Cecil, Lord, and Earl of Exeter, 14, 20,
    30, 33, 37, 57, 63, 123, 167, 169, 215.

  Burre, Walter, 275, 282.

  Bye Plot, or Surprising Treason, 188-9, 211, 346.

  Cabinet Council, 269, 280.

  Cæsar, Sir Julius, 255, 303, 344, 356, 361-2, 364.

  Camden, William, 9, 66, 89, 109, 275, 296, 298, 333.

  Carew, Sir Francis, 49, 183.

  -- Sir George, Earl of Totnes, 26, 30, 49, 70, 93, 94, 99, 126, 127,
    131, 134, 148, 162, 254-5, 265, 299-301, 306, 314, 330, 332-3, 347,
    350, 377.

  -- Lady, 351.

  -- Sir Henry, 143.

  -- Sir Nicholas, 88, 373.

  -- Sir Peter, 4.

  -- Sir Randolph, 375.

  Carleton, Dudley, Lord Dorchester, 174, 228-30, 239, 262, 293.

  Carlyle, Thomas, 283.

  Carr, Robert, Viscount Rochester, and Earl of Somerset, 250, 252,
    261-3, 292, 296-7, 347.

  Case, John, 53.

  Caulfield, Captain, 111, 118, 369.

  Cavendish, Sir Charles, 63.

  -- Thomas, 45.

  Caworako, 116.

  Cecil, Colonel, 375.

  -- Elizabeth Brooke, Lady, 170.

  -- Sir Robert, Lord Cecil, and Earl of Salisbury, 30, 52, 91, 97-8, 103,
    119, 123, 132, 148, 158, 169-80, 184, 187, 194, 196, 199, 204-5, 209,
    214, 219, 221, 223, 227, 229, 232, 240, 242, 244-5, 255;
    death, 257-9, 266, 288-9, 292, 300, 346.

  -- Thomas, Earl of Exeter, 302.

  -- William, Earl of Salisbury, 152, 170.
    (For Sir William Cecil, Earl of Exeter, see Burleigh.)

  Cedar wood, 170.

  Ceyva, la, Isle of, 322.

  Chamberlain, John, 229, 262, 280-1, 298, 305, 337, 386, 393-4.

  Champernoun, C., 7, 9.

  -- Henry, 9.

  -- Katherine (Gilbert and Ralegh), 2, 3, 5.

  -- Sir Philip, 2.

  Champion, Richard, 351.

  Chapman, George, 121.

  Charles I, 310, 381.

  -- II, 266, 382.

  Charles Emmanuel I. See Savoy.

  Charles, the Indian, 249.

  Chester, Charles, 13.

  Cheynes, the goldsmith, 244.

  Christian IV, of Denmark, 293-4.

  Christofero, 350.

  Christopher's, St., 328.

  Chudleigh, Captain, 311.

  Churchyard, Thomas, 56.

  Cities, Causes of the Magnificency of, 267.

  Clarence, George Plantagenet, Duke of, 247.

  Clarendon, Edward Hyde, Earl of, 145.

  Clares, the, Earls of Gloucester, 1.

  Clarke, Rev. Francis, 186, 208, 215, 236.

  Clifford, Sir Coniers, 126-7.

  Clyst Heath, battle of, 4.

  Clyston, Sir John, 38.

  Cobham, Henry Brooke, Lord, 147, 156, 167, 173, 175, 178, 180, 183-4,
    186-93, 200-3, 207-8, 223-30, 236, 240, 244, 252, 254-5, 259, 295;
    death, 296, 300, 325, 346, 360, 384, 399.

  Coke, Sir Edward, Chief Justice, 190, 209-20, 230, 260, 344, 359,
    361, 389.

  Coldwell, John, Bishop of Salisbury, 101, 102.

  Coligny, Gaspard de, Admiral, 11.

  Colin Clout, 71.

  Collier, Payne, 42, 141.

  Comestor, Peter, 272.

  Compton, William, Lord, Earl of Northampton, 332, 375.

  Concini, Concino, Marshal, 307.

  Copley, Anthony, 186, 188, 193, 208.

  'Cords twisted by Love,' 279.

  Corney, Bolton, 274.

  Corsini, Filippo, 51.

  Cosmor, Captain, 321.

  Cottington, Francis, Lord Cottington, 305, 332, 385-6.

  Cotton, Henry, Bishop of Salisbury, 143, 163, 244.

  -- Sir Robert, 272.

  Cottrell or Cotterell, Edward or William, 203, 248, 252, 339-40, 342.

  Court Morals, 89.

  Courtenay, Sir William, 34.

  Coventry, Sir Thomas, Lord Keeper, Lord Coventry, 362.

  Crab, 316.

  Cromwell, Oliver, 279, 397.

  -- Richard, 279.

  Crosse, Captain, 111.

  Cumberland, George Clifford, Earl of, 50, 86, 97, 99, 184.

  Cynthia, 73-6.

  Daniel, Samuel, 271.

  --, 257.

  Darcy, Sir Edward, 104, 183, 210.

  Dare, Eleanor, 47.

  Darell, 2.

  Darius, King, 278.

  Davila, Francis, 333.

  Davison, Francis, 80.

  Davys, John, 50, 140.

  Dayrell, Sir Richard, 209.

  Dean, Peter, 248, 365-6.

  'Death, eloquent, just, and mighty,' 396.

  Declaration of 1618, 291, 303, 305, 311, 321, 323-4, 330, 361,
    364, 389-393.

  Dee, Dr. John, 104.

  Demetrius, 277.

  Desmond, Gerald Fitzjames Fitzgerald, 15th Earl of, 37.

  -- -- 18th Earl of, 295.

  -- Katherine Fitzgerald, Dowager Countess of, 162.

  -- Morrice Fitzjohn of, 84.

  Deuteronomy, 213.

  Devereux, Lady Dorothy, Perrot, and Countess of Northumberland, 13,
    61, 177.

  Digby, John, Earl of Bristol, 164, 264, 307, 339, 381.

  -- Kenelm, 267.

  Dimoke, Dulmar, 120.

  D'Israeli, Isaac, 181, 274.

  Dixon, Hepworth, 198.

  Dover Harbour, 159.

  Dowdall, Sir John, 95.

  Drake, Sir Francis, 46, 67, 125.

  -- Joan, 2.

  -- Mr., 334.

  -- Robert, 2.

  Drummond, William, of Hawthornden, 274, 301.

  Dudley, Robert, claimant of Dukedom of Northumberland, 122.

  Duelling, 57, 69, 84, 166-7.

  Duke, Richard, 100-1.

  Durham House, 104, 174, 182-3.

  Dutiful Advice, 269.

  Dyce, Rev. Alexander, 301.

  Dyer, Edward, 61.

  -- the pilot, 216.

  Echard, Archdeacon Lawrence, 186.

  Edward IV, 211.

  -- V, 247.

  Edwards, Edward, 26, 31, 259, 274.

  Egerton, Sir Thomas, Lord Chancellor, Lord Ellesmere, and Viscount
    Brackley, 36, 106.

  Eliot, John, 371, 375, 397.

  Elizabeth, Princess, Electress Palatine, and Queen of Bohemia, 256,
    279, 396.

  -- Queen, 24, 25, 44, 93, 94, 125, 147, 170;
    death, 180, 212, 270, 280, 343, 368.

  Elstracke, Renold, 276.

  Elways, Sir Gervase, 250.

  Empire, Arts of, 267, 269.

  Epaminondas, 277.

  Erenetta, 321.

  Erskine, Sir Thomas, Earl of Kellie, 181.

  Esmond, Henry, 371.

  Essex, Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of, 55, 60-3, 69, 82, 125, 127-8, 131,
    133, 135-6, 138-9, 143-9;
    execution, 150, 160, 165, 182, 202, 209, 217, 328, 374, 378, 390.

  -- Robert Devereux, 3rd Earl of, 237.

  -- Lettice Knollys, dowager Countess of Leicester, and of, 237, 361.

  Eumenes, 299.

  Evelyn, John, 55, 266.

  Evesham, Captain John, 50.

  Faerie Queene, 26, 72.

  Faige, Captain, 307-8.

  Fardell, 1, 6.

  Faunt, Nicholas, 108.

  Fayal, attack on, 136-7, 277.

  Fayle, de la, 186.

  Feather triumph, 146.

  Febre, or Febure, Nicholas de, 266-7.

  Felton, John, 263.

  Ferne, Sir John, 311-2, 330, 363.

  Finett, Robert, 300.

  Fitton, Sir Edward, 38.

  -- Mary, 89.

  Fitzgerald, Sir James, 17.

  -- Gerald Fitzjames, see Desmond.

  -- Katherine, see Desmond.

  -- Morrice Fitzjohn, see Desmond.

  -- John Fitzedmund, see Imokelly.

  Fitzwilliam, Sir William, Lord Deputy, 56, 71, 95.

  Fleet prison, 13, 246.

  Florida, French in, 43.

  Flory, Captain, 334.

  Floyer, Captain John, 51.

  Fortescue, Sir John, 99, 180.

  Foster, Mr. Justice, Sir Michael, 214-5, 222.

  Fourth party, 184.

  Fowler, Sir Thomas, or John, 316.

  Fox, Charles James, 277.

  Foxe, John, Acts and Monuments, 5.

  Francis, the cook, 316.

  Fraser, Alexander, 267.

  Frederick, Elector Palatine, and King of Bohemia, 255, 396.

  Frobisher, Sir Martin, 87, 96.

  Gainsford, Captain Thomas, 395.

  Gardiner, Mr. S.R., 190, 225, 292, 318, 324, 332, 335, 337, 344, 352-5.

  Gascoigne, George, 12, 30.

  Gate-house, 367, 371-4, 387.

  Gawdy, Mr. Justice, Sir Francis, 209, 214, 231, 363.

  Genaboa, Pedro Sarmiento de, 50.

  Genoa, plot against, 310-11.

  Gibb, John, 239.

  Gibbon, Edward, 102, 281, 309, 398.

  Gifford, 118.

  Gilbert, Adrian, 2, 164, 196, 265.

  -- Bartholomew, 48.

  -- Humphrey, 2, 11, 14, 15, 19, 42-3.

  -- John, 2, 5, 34, 64, 111, 123, 129.

  -- John, junior, 51, 141.

  -- Otho, 2.

  -- Ralph, 48.

  Giles's, St., bowl, 375.

  Giuseppe, San, or St. Joseph, 113, 323, 357.

  Godolphin, Sir William, 241.

  Godwin, George, 136.

  Godwin, Thomas, Bishop of Bath and Wells, 102.

  Gomera, Isle of, 316.

  Gondomar, Count of, Diego Sarmiento de Acuña, 227, 304-5, 332-3, 338.

  Goodier, Sir Henry, 34.

  Goodman, Godfrey, Bishop of Gloucester, 195, 381.

  Goodwin, Hugh, 117.

  Gorges, Sir Arthur, 93, 134, 137, 139, 140, 156.

  -- Sir Ferdinando, 134, 149, 150, 166, 383.

  Gorgues, Dominique de, 43.

  Gosnold, Captain, 48.

  Gosse, Mr. Edmund, 73-4.

  Government, Seat of, 267.

  Grados, Geronimo de, 321-2.

  Granganimeo, 44, 46.

  Gray's Inn Walks, 302.

  Grenville, Sir Richard, 45-6, 64, 83-4, 334.

  Greville, Fulke, Lord Brooke, 297.

  Grey de Wilton, Arthur Grey, Lord, 17, 19, 20-22, 64.

  -- Thomas Grey, Lord, 186, 188, 200, 208, 233, 236, 240, 244, 249, 295.

  -- William Grey, Lord, 4.

  Gualtero, the Indian, 117.

  Guiana, 109-10, 288, 291, 317-25, 350-1.

  -- Discovery of, 120, 269.

  Guizot, Francois Pierre Guillaume, 283.

  Gunpowder Plot, 251, 261.

  Hakluyt, Richard, junior, 11, 15, 47, 50, 53, 84, 119, 161.

  Hall, Joseph, Bishop of Norwich, 279.

  -- Captain, 319.

  Hallam, Henry, 79, 183, 199, 204, 221, 225, 227, 277, 284-6, 292, 303.

  Haman, 297.

  Hamon's wife, 369.

  Hampden, Mr. John, 269, 279, 371, 397.

  -- Sir John, 322.

  Hannah, Archdeacon John, 73.

  Harcourt, Captain Robert, 291.

  Harington, Sir John, 90, 93, 156, 163, 171, 193, 205, 273, 293.

  Harrington, James, 380.

  Harriot, or Hariot, Thomas, 45, 49, 54, 221, 248, 273, 295.

  Harris, Sir Christopher, 334.

  Harry, the Indian, 317.

  Hart, the boatswain, 339-41.

  Harvey, Sir George, 201, 203, 249, 252.

  -- Mr. George, 203.

  Harwood, Sir Edward, 345.

  Hastings, Edward, 300, 332.

  Hatton, Sir Christopher, 26, 38, 60.

  Havanna, Spanish Cruelties in, 268.

  Hawkins, Sir John, 97, 99, 125.

  Hawles, Sir John, 180, 224.

  Hawthorn, Rev. Mr., 248.

  Hay, James, Viscount Doncaster, and Earl of Carlisle, 332, 375, 377.

  Hayes Barton, 6, 70, 100-1.

  Hayman, Samuel, 272.

  Hele, Serjeant, 209, 210.

  Heneage, Sir Thomas, 33, 60.

  Hennessy, Sir John Pope, 70, 147, 162, 272.

  Henry IV, of France, 144, 184, 240.

  -- VII, of England, 1, 211.

  -- VIII, 278, 280.

  Henry, Prince of Wales, 255-7, 259-60, 263, 284, 294.

  Herbert, Myles, or William, 300, 329.

  -- William, 340-1.

  Hickes, Michael, 30, 208, 229.

  Hilliard, Rev. William, 126.

  History of the World, 255, 270-84, 297.

  Hobbinol, 258.

  Holinshed, Raphael, 3, 15, 45.

  Hollander, trade and commerce with the, 267.

  Hooker, John, 3, 15, 18, 35.

  -- Rev. Richard, 277.

  Horsey, 152.

  Hoskyns, Serjeant John, 273, 275.

  Howard, Charles, Lord Howard of Effingham, and Earl of Nottingham, 30,
    40, 58, 66, 84, 106, 125, 127, 144, 176, 204, 242, 277, 293, 331, 384,
    386.
  -- Charity White, Lady Howard of Effingham, 251.

  -- Lady Frances, Countess of Kildare, and Lady Cobham, 175, 216, 296.

  -- Lady Frances, Countess of Essex, and of Somerset, 237, 296-7, 361.

  -- Lord Henry, Earl of Northampton, 30, 169, 171-7, 182, 188, 196, 209,
    252, 254, 286, 293, 372.

  -- Mr. Henry, 300.

  -- Thomas, Duke of Norfolk, 152, 214.

  -- Lord Thomas, Earl of Suffolk, 82, 84, 126-8, 134, 138-9, 146, 209,
    221, 255, 293, 300, 346.

  -- Thomas, Viscount Bindon, 165.

  Howell, James, 302-3.

  -- T.B., 202.

  Hues, Robert, 273.

  Hume, David, 120, 225.

  Huntingdon, Henry Hastings, 3rd Earl of, 119.

  -- Henry Hastings, 5th Earl of, 299, 300.

  Hutchinson, Mrs. Lucy, 247, 347-8.

  Imokelly, Seneschal of, John Fitzedmund Fitzgerald, 18, 33.

  Instructions to his Son, 268.

  Isabella, Archduchess, the Infanta, 156, 226.

  Isham, Sir John, 372, 374.

  Islands Voyage, 134-140.

  James I, 30, 55, 171-7, 185-6, 194, 205, 209, 223, 227, 233, 239, 243,
    256, 261, 278, 279-81, 291-2, 297, 303-6, 317, 332-3, 338, 349,
    352-355, 360, 368, 370, 379, 381, 386, 387-93, 396-7.

  Janssen, Cornelius, 29.

  Jarnac, battle of, 11.

  Jehu, 277.

  Jersey, 160, 182, 192, 201, 226, 382.

  Jesuit and Recusant, Dialogue between, 268.

  Jezebel, 277.

  John, Dr., 248.

  Jones, Rev. Samuel, 326.

  Jonson, Ben, 31, 270, 274-5, 300-1, 371.

  Kelloway, 152.

  Keymer, John, 36, 268.

  Keymis, or Keemis, Captain Lawrence, 54, 111, 118, 121, 123-4, 190-2,
    196, 246, 252, 290, 311, 318-9, 322-5, 329, 350.

  Killigrew, William, 95, 98, 210.

  King's Printers, 391.

  King, Captain Anthony Wells, 111.

  -- Captain Samuel, 319, 330, 333-6, 338-42, 388.

  Kingsley, Canon Charles, 151, 204, 279, 328.

  Knolles, Sir Thomas, 64.

  Knyvett, or Knevett, Henry, 57.

  -- Sir Thomas, Lord Knyvett, 290.

  Lake, Sir Thomas, 181.

  Lancerota, isle of, 315, 357.

  Lane, Ralph, 45-6, 49, 64.

  La Renzi, 186, 188, 192, 226.

  Latimer, Hugh, Bishop of Worcester, 247.

  Laudonnière, 43.

  Lawes, Henry, 381.

  Lazanna, Juan de, 322.

  Le Clerc, 338-40, 344-5.

  Le Grand Captain, 334.

  Leicester, Robert Dudley, Earl of, 14, 20, 23, 32, 56.

  Leigh, Captain Charles, 291.

  -- Sir John, 329.

  Leighton, Sir Thomas, 64.

  Lennox, Esme Stuart, Duke of, 174-5, 255.

  Leonard, the Indian, 291.

  Leonello, the Venetian, 310-1.

  Lingard, Rev. Dr. John, 113, 223, 225, 227.

  Linschoten, Jan Huygen van, 83.

  Lismore Castle and Manor, 70-1, 161-3.

  Littlecote Hall, 209.

  Littleton, John, 39.

  Lloyd, David, 269.

  Lorkin, Thomas, 378.

  Lovelace, Captain Richard, 371.

  Lowell, James Russell, 380.

  Lundy Isle, 388.

  Luttrell, Narcissus, 195.

  Lyon's Inn, 12, 103.

  McCarthy, Cormac, Lord of Muskerry, 158.

  -- Florence, 18, 295.

  Mace, Captain Samuel, 47, 161.

  Macworth, 17.

  Madre de Dios, 96.

  Magrath Miler, Bishop of Lismore and Waterford, and Archbishop
    of Cashel, 70, 126.

  Mahomet, Life and Death of, 269.

  Main Plot, 193, 211, 346, 357.

  Malet, Mr. Justice, Sir Thomas, 258.

  Manourie, 335-8, 362-3, 376, 383, 387-8.

  Mansel, Sir Robert, 208.

  Manteo, 44-6.

  Mar, John Erskine, Earl of, 187, 229.

  Marêts, Comte de, 306-7.

  Margaret's, St., 380-1.

  Marie de Medici, 156, 306.

  Maritimal Voyage, 257.

  Markham, Sir Griffin, 184, 186, 188, 192, 200, 208, 236, 239-40, 244,
    296.

  Marriage, Spanish, 345.

  Marrow of History, 282.

  Martens, Veronio, 162.

  Mary Stuart, 64, 182, 192.

  Masham, Thomas, 161.

  Matthew, Tobias, Bishop of Durham, and Archbishop of York, 101, 182.

  -- Sir Toby, 198, 229.

  Mayerne, Sir Theodore, 260, 328.

  'May-game Monarchs,' 278.

  Meere, John, 164-5, 209, 242, 263, 315, 369.

  Mermaid Tavern, 157.

  Meyricke, Sir Guilly, 136-7.

  Millais, Sir John E., 7.

  Milton, John, 30, 269, 397.

  Moate, Captain, 290, 318.

  Model of a Ship, 257, 267.

  Moile, Henry, 18.

  Monarchy of Man, 397.

  Moncontour, battle of, 10.

  Monk, General George, Duke of Albemarle, 382.

  Monmouth, James, Duke of, 9.

  Monson, Sir William, 127, 129, 131, 136, 138.

  Montagu, Chief Justice, Sir Henry, Earl of Manchester, 365-7.

  Montague, James Grahame, Bishop of Winchester, 368.

  Montgomerie, Comte de, 9.

  Montmorency, Admiral de, 308.

  Montrose, James Graham, Marquis of, 279.

  Mooney, John, 103.

  More, Sir George, 295.

  Morequito, King, 115.

  Morgan, Sir William, 20.

  Morgues, Jacques, 53.

  Myrtle Grove, 70, 272.

  Napier, Macvey, 208, 270.

  Narrative, Captain King's, 388.

  Nassau, Lewis, Count of, 10.

  Naunton, Sir Robert, 16, 22, 30, 35, 109, 328, 341, 343-4, 348-9, 351-2,
    369, 389, 394-5.

  Neville, Sir Henry, 156.

  Newfoundland, 43, 161, 327, 329.

  Ninias, 280.

  Norreys, Sir Thomas, 30.

  Norris, Sir John, 11, 64, 67.

  North, Captain, 300.

  Northumberland, John Dudley, Duke of, 104, 152.

  -- Henry Percy, 9th Earl of, 58, 173, 175-6, 182, 184, 223, 251, 273,
    295, 329, 394.
    (For 10th Earl, see Percy.)

  Novion, David de, 338-40, 344.

  Oldys, William, 265, 268, 281, 301, 388.

  Orange, William I, Prince of, 11, 33.

  -- Maurice, Prince of, 156, 300.

  Oriel College, 7.

  Orinoko River, 114.

  Ormond, Thomas Butler, 10th Earl of, 19, 20, 33, 38.

  Osborn, or Osborne, Francis, 230, 258, 280, 296, 368.

  Osmund, Bishop of Salisbury, 101, 263.

  Overbury, Sir Thomas, 219, 221, 250, 266, 292, 296, 328.

  Palmer, 120.

  Parham, Mr., 336.

  -- Sir Edward, 186, 208, 336, 377.

  Parker, Captain Charles, 300, 322, 325, 357.

  Parry, Sir Thomas, 188, 193-4, 199, 200, 224.

  Parsons, Rev. Robert, 106.

  Paulett, Sir Anthony, 34, 160.

  'Paul's-walker, the constant,' 394.

  Paunsford, 13.

  Peirese, Nicholas Claude Fabri de, 333.

  Peirson, John, 54.

  Pelissier, General Aimable Jean Jacques, Duc de Malakhoff, 10.

  Pembroke, Henry Herbert, Earl of, 69, 79.

  -- William Herbert, Earl of, 89, 237, 241, 296, 300, 305, 310, 381.

  -- Mary Sidney, dowager Countess of, 237.

  Pennington, Captain, 311, 330, 364.

  Percy, Algernon, Lord, 10th Earl of Northumberland, 375.

  -- Thomas, 251.

  Perrot, Sir John, 15.

  -- Sir Thomas, 13.

  -- Lady Dorothy, see Devereux.

  Petition, Humble, Sir Lewis Stukely's, 387, 389.

  Pett, Phinehas, 257, 299.

  Pewe, Hugh, gentleman, 40.

  Peyton, Sir Edward, 30.

  -- Sir John, 194, 201.

  -- John, junior, 201.

  Philip II, of Spain, 64, 186, 285.

  -- III, 357, 385-6.

  Phillips, Serjeant, Sir Edward, Speaker, and Master of the Rolls, 209,
    216, 242.

  -- Sir Robert, 263.

  Piers, Captain, 20.

  Piggot, Captain, 316.

  Pilgrimage, The, 238-9.

  Pinkerton, John, alias Robert Heron, 282-3.

  Plague, 103, 207, 247-8.

  Plumer, Thomas, 299.

  Polwhele, Rev. Richard, 1, 100, 101.

  Ponte, Isabel de, 2.

  Pope, Alexander, 164, 278.

  Popham, Chief Justice, Sir John, 209, 221, 260-1.

  Portraits of Ralegh, 28-9.

  Pory, J., 386, 394.

  Potatoes, 49.

  'Poverty an imprisonment of the mind,' 241.

  Poyntz, 49.

  Prerogative of Parliaments, 267, 269, 284-6, 292, 296.

  Prest, Agnes, 5.

  Preston, Sir Amias, 112, 119, 166, 289.

  Primero, a game of, 143.

  Prince, The, 267.

  Princes, Premonition to, 268.

  Puckering, Sir Thomas, 378.

  Pullison, Lord Mayor, 34.

  Putijma, 118, 124, 318.

  Puttenham, George, 30, 77.

  Pym, John, 207, 314, 397.

  Pyne, Henry, 162, 314-5, 369.

  Pyrrhus, 277.

  Raleana, the, 115.

  Ralegh, Adrian, 50.

  -- Sir Carew, 2, 31, 44, 86, 103, 157, 166, 242, 248.

  -- Mr. Carew, 30, 104, 163, 243, 248, 261, 264, 302, 305, 314, 327,
    368, 381-3.

  -- George, 2.

  -- George, junior, 104, 249, 300, 318-9, 322-3.

  -- John, 2.

  -- Margaret, 2.

  -- Mary, 2.

  -- Philip, 30, 282, 381.

  -- Walter, Sir Walter's father, 2-5, 31.

  -- Walter, son, 29, 30, 165-6, 243, 248, 261-2, 300-1, 317;
    death, 321, 323.

  -- Walter, grandson, 381.

  -- Sir Walter;
    his birth, 6;
    birthplace, 6-7;
    boyhood, 7;
    at Oriel College, 7-9;
    chronological difficulties; serves with the Huguenots for
    six years, 9-11;
    in the War of the Netherlands, 11;
    a law student at Lyon's Inn and the Middle Temple, 12, 13;
    at Islington in 1577, 13;
    joins in Humphrey Gilbert's Norimbega expedition, 14-15;
    a Captain in Munster, 16;
    at the Smerwick massacre, 17;
    surprises Lord Barry's and Lord Roche's castles, 18-19;
    a Commissioner for Munster, 20;
    brings home despatches. 21.
    Advice to the Council on Irish affairs, wins the Queen's favour; 22-3;
    Thomas Fuller's story, 23-4;
    his relations to the Queen, 25-7;
    invidious versatility, 27;
    aspect, 28-9;
    spelling of his name, 30-31.
    Attendance on the Duc d'Anjou, 33;
    Warden of the Stannaries, and Captain of the Guard, 34-5;
    wine licenser, 36;
    controversy with University of Cambridge, 36-7;
    an Undertaker for Munster, 37-8;
    the Babington forfeiture, 39;
    extravagance and neediness of Elizabethan courtiers, 40.
    Forbidden to voyage with Humphrey Gilbert, 42;
    equips expedition to Virginia, 43-4;
    sends settlers, 45-8;
    imports tobacco and potatoes, 49;
    privateering, 50-2.
    A patron of literature, 53-5;
    deference to Earl of Leicester, 56-7;
    befriends Earl of Oxford, 57;
    'damnably proud,' 58;
    passion for management, 59.
    Essex's jealousy, 61-2;
    sups at Lord Burleigh's with Lady Arabella Stuart, 63;
    council of war against the Armada, 64;
    the Armada, 65;
    'a morris dance upon the waters'; danger of grappling, 66;
    expedition against Lisbon, 67;
    dispute with Colonel Roger Williams, 68.
    Reported loss of royal favour, 69;
    Lismore Castle and Myrtle Grove, 70;
    visit to Edmund Spenser, 71;
    the Faerie Queene, 72;
    Cynthia, and its date, 73-5;
    Ralegh's sonnet to Spenser, 76;
    his poetic gifts, 77;
    their limitations, 78;
    disputed authorship of poems, 79-80.
    Commissioned to intercept the Plate Fleet; replaced by Sir Richard
    Grenville, 82;
    narrative of Grenville's fight with the Spaniards, 84;
    invective against Spanish ambition and cruelty, 85;
    threatened duel with Lord Howard of Effingham, 84;
    equips an expedition to avenge the Revenge, 86;
    sails, and is superseded by Burgh and Frobisher, 87.
    Disgrace and imprisonment, 88;
    the alleged intrigue with Elizabeth Throckmorton, 89;
    difficulties in the charge, 90;
    balance of improbabilities, 91;
    extravagances to move the Queen's pity, 92-3;
    place of confinement, and his keeper, 94;
    discontent with Lord Deputy Fitzwilliam, 95;
    'a fish with lame legs, and lamer lungs,' ibid.; capture of the
    Madre de Dios, 96;
    her riches; Robert Cecil and he sent to Plymouth to realize them, 97;
    joy of his servants and step-brother, 98;
    worth of the cargo, and the Queen's share, 99.
    His homes; negotiations for Hayes, 100-1;
    demise of Sherborne and its manors, 102;
    amusements and occupations, 103;
    Durham House, and other London residences, 104-5;
    House of Commons, 105-6;
    goes to sea; despotic Irish policy, 107.
    Court rumours concerning him, and fears; plans Guiana expedition, 108;
    Lady Ralegh's anxiety, 110;
    Whiddon's pioneering voyage, 111;
    Ralegh sails, ibid.;
    captures San Giuseppe, and Antonio de Berreo, 113;
    navigates the Orinoko, 114;
    an Indian centenarian, 115;
    native marvels, 116;
    gold, 117-8;
    return, 119;
    narrative of the expedition, 120;
    further explorations, 121-4.
    Preparations against Cadiz, 125-6;
    attack on the harbour, 127-9;
    on the town, 129;
    discontent at share of spoil, 130;
    comes to London, 131;
    received back into royal favour, 133;
    league with Cecil and Essex, 133-4;
    The Islands Voyage, 135;
    conquest of Fayal, 137;
    Essex's wrath, 138;
    disappointments, 139.
    'The killing of a rebel,' 142;
    relations with Essex;
    friendly, 143-4;
    hostile, 145-50;
    interview with Gorges, 149;
    presence at execution of Essex, 150;
    warning to Cecil against relenting, 151-2;
    obscurities in the letter, 153-4.
    A mark for Oxford's sarcasms, 155;
    with Prince Maurice, Sully, and Biron, 156;
    at the Mermaid Tavern, 157;
    Member for Cornwall, 158;
    speech on monopolies, 159;
    Governor of Jersey, 160;
    improvements at Lismore Manor, 161;
    its sale, 162;
    Sherborne Castle, 163-4;
    disputes with Meere, 165;
    with Sir Amias Preston, 166-7.
    Cordiality of Cecil, 169-70;
    the rift, 171;
    relations with King James, 173-5;
    Henry Howard's hatred of the 'accursed duality,' or 'triplicity,' 175;
    Ralegh's amity with Cobham, 177.
    Elizabeth's death, and Ralegh's cold reception by James, 180-81;
    dismissal from Captaincy of the Guard, 181;
    ejectment from Durham House, 183;
    overtures of Sully, 184.
    The Bye and Main Plots, 186 et seq.;
    examined by Lords of the Council, 189;
    accused of complicity by Cobham, 191;
    inquiries by Waad, 192;
    attempt at suicide, 194;
    an apocryphal letter of farewell, 195-8;
    absurd statement by de Thou; Cobham's remorse and retractations, 201-3;
    a combination of enmities, 203-5.
    The indictment, 207;
    journey to Winchester; brutish mob fury, 208;
    the trial, 209-20;
    Coke's insults, 212;
    rules of evidence in treason prosecutions, 213-5;
    Cobham's renewed charge, 217;
    Ralegh's 'amazement,' 218;
    produces Cobham's letter to himself, 219;
    verdict of guilty, and judgment, 220;
    noble demeanour, 221.
    Legally innocent, 222-5;
    and morally, 225-8;
    general admiration, 229-30.
    The hero abased, 232;
    the explanation, 234-6;
    preparing for death; farewell to wife, 237;
    reprieved, 239-40.
    The legal penalties, 241;
    their mitigation, 243;
    vain prayers for freedom, 245;
    bodily ailments, 246-7;
    his Tower home and household, 247-9;
    petty tyranny of Waad, 249-50;
    suspected implication in Gunpowder Plot, 251;
    other imputed crimes, 252;
    favour of Queen Anne, 254;
    of Prince Henry, 255;
    the Savoy Marriages, 256;
    naval construction, 257;
    Cecil's death, 257;
    Prince Henry's, 260;
    loss of Sherborne, 260-4.
    Scientific, 265-7,
    and literary pursuits, 267-70;
    'no slug,' 273;
    History of the World, 270;
    collaborators, 273-5;
    date of publication, 275;
    defects, 276;
    merits, 277-9;
    applause from all, 279;
    except the King, 280-81;
    cause of interruption of the work, 282-4;
    Prerogative of Parliaments, 284-6.
    Visions of Guiana gold mines, 287-92;
    the opportunity, 292-3;
    payments to Edward Villiers and William St. John, 294;
    enlargement, 295;
    fable of meeting with Robert Carr.
    Equipment of ships for Guiana, 299;
    commission with omissions, 301;
    Lord Keeper Bacon's view of the superfluity of a pardon; alleged avowal
    of designs upon the Plate Fleet, 303;
    Gondomar's protests, 304;
    James's deference to them, 305;
    the French envoy's visit to Ralegh's flagship, 307;
    further negotiations with France, 307-10;
    and with Savoy, 310-11.
    Departure of the fleet from Plymouth, 313;
    stay at Cork, and Boyle's hospitality, 314-5;
    panic at Lancerota, 315;
    secession of Captain Bayley; the Lady of Gomera, 316;
    sickness in the Fleet, ibid.;
    arrival in Guiana, and organisation of expedition to the mine; 317;
    Ralegh's ignorance of the position of San Thome, 318;
    his instructions, 319;
    despatch of Walter and George Ralegh, with Keymis, 320;
    at Puncto Gallo; hears of Walter's death in the
    San Thome skirmish, 323;
    angry reception and death of Keymis, 324-5;
    deserted by Whitney and Wollaston, 326;
    writes to Winwood and Lady Ralegh from St. Christopher's, 328-9;
    arrives at Kinsale from Newfoundland, 330.
    Meeting with Lady Ralegh at Plymouth, June 21, 331;
    Sir Lewis Stukely directed to arrest him and his ship, 334;
    escape planned, and abandoned, 334;
    journey, with Stukely and Manourie, 335;
    malingering at Salisbury; and composition of Apology, 336;
    Manourie's treachery, 338;
    interviews with French Agents, 338-9;
    flight, and return to the Tower, 341-2.
    Last interview with Stukely, 343;
    examined by the Privy Council, 344;
    Sir Thomas Wilson's endeavours to extort evidence from him, 346-52;
    Sir Allen's and Lady Apsley's kindness, 347-8;
    appeals to the King and Villiers, 349-51;
    dilemma of the Government, 355-7;
    recourse to the Main Plot, 357.
    A quasi-trial, 359-64;
    the decision, 364-5;
    execution granted by the King's Bench, 366-7;
    testamentary note, 369.
    At the Gate-house, 371;
    'fearlessness, with reverence and conscience,' 372;
    farewell to his wife, 373;
    and to life, 374;
    on the scaffold, 375-8;
    on the block, 379.
    Burial, 380;
    popular wrath, and vengeance, 386-9.
    Durability of the national sympathy, 394-8;
    contradictions in character and career, 398-400.

  Ralegh, Wimund, 1.

  -- Elizabeth Throckmorton, Lady, 30, 88-91, 104, 110, 119, 144, 151, 163,
    169-70, 175-6, 237, 243, 248, 250-52, 254, 261-2, 288, 305, 311, 317,
    329, 331, 334-6, 351-2, 358, 368-9, 373, 380-2, 384-5.

  Ralegh's, Sir Walter, Ghost, 395.

  Ralegh, City of, 46.

  Ramsay, John, Viscount Haddington, and Earl of Holderness, 290, 314.

  Reeks, of Ratcliff, 315, 331.

  Register, Oxford, 8, 31.

  -- Stationers', 31, 275.

  Registers, Middlesex, 13.

  Rehoboam, 278.

  Revenge, The, 83.

  Reynerson, Albert, 51.

  Rich, Sir Henry, Captain of the Guard, and, 1624, Earl of Holland, 375.

  Richard the Second, 134.

  Richelieu, Armand Jean du Plessis, Cardinal de, 306-7.

  Rimenant, battle of, 11.

  Roche, Maurice, Viscount Roche and Fermoy, 18.

  -- David, Viscount Roche and Fermoy, 314.

  Roe, Sir Thomas, 299.

  Ros, William Lennox Lascelles, Lord de, 248.

  Ross, Alexander, 275, 281.

  Royal Navy, and Sea Service, 257, 267.

  Royal Society anticipated, 55.

  Rushworth, John, 186, 385.

  Russell, Sir William, 146, 148.

  Rutland, Elizabeth Sidney, Countess of, 266.

  Sackville, Sir Edward, 375.

  St. John, Sir Oliver, Lord St. John, and Earl of Bolingbroke, 330.

  -- Sir William, 294, 302, 340-2.

  St. Leger, Sir Warham, 20.

  -- Sir Warham, junior, 300, 318, 357, 364.

  Samson's foxes, 211.

  Sampson, the chemist, 266.

  -- Captain, 252.

  Sancroft, William, Archbishop of Canterbury, 271.

  Sanderson, William, 36, 242, 371.

  -- Sir William, 243, 371.

  Sanderson's History, Observations upon, 230, 243, 280, 294, 302.

  Sandys, William, Lord, 157.

  Sassafras, 170.

  Savage, Sir Arthur, 156, 174.

  Savoy, Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of, 255-6, 310.

  Savoy Marriage, 255-6, 267.

  Scaramelli, 188, 194.

  Scarnafissi, Count, 310-11.

  Sceptic, the, 268.

  Schomburgk, Sir Robert H., 119, 121, 307.

  Scott, Sir Walter, 23.

  Sebastian, King of Portugal, 142.

  Selden, John, 371.

  Semiramis, 280.

  Seymour, Lord Henry, 160.

  Sharpe, Rev. Dr., 387.

  Sheffield, Edmund, Lord Sheffield, and Earl of Mulgrave, 375.

  Shelbury, John, 242, 248.

  Sherborne Castle, 88, 101-3, 163-7, 195. 243-4. 260-4, 335, 381-2.

  Ships, Invention of, 257, 267.

  Shirley, 137.

  -- John, 258, 273.

  Shrewsbury, Countess of, 359.

  Sidney, Algernon, 274, 284.

  -- Sir Philip, 57, 77.

  -- Sir Robert, 146, 156, 177.

  Simier, 32.

  Simon, Pedro, 321.

  Sixtus Senensis, 275.

  Skory, Sylvanus, 329.

  Sloane, Sir Hans, 265.

  Smerwick massacre, 17.

  Smith, Captain, 319.

  -- Robert, 242.

  -- Thomas, 47.

  -- Widow, 112, 126.

  Snagge, 167, 215.

  Snedale, Hugh, 2.

  -- Margaret, 36, 243.

  -- Mary, 2.

  Sommers, or Summers, Captain George, 112, 119.

  Soul, The, 268.

  Southampton, Henry Wriothesley, Earl of, 89, 143-4, 184, 192.

  Southey, Robert, 55, 113.

  Southwell, 127.

  Sparrow, Francis, 117.

  Spedding, James, 14, 304, 360-61, 364, 393.

  Spence, Rev. Dr. Joseph, 278.

  Spenser, Edmund, 17, 26, 71.

  Stafford, Sir Edward, 89.

  Standen, Sir Anthony, 132.

  Stanhope, Sir John, 49, 209.

  State, Maxims of, 267, 286.

  Steele, Sir Richard, 269.

  Stewart, Dugald, 398.

  Stow, John, 146.

  Stowell, Sir John, 38.

  Strafford, Thomas Wentworth, Earl of, 382.

  Strype, Rev. John, 66.

  Stuart, Arabella (Grey), 63, 172-3, 207, 211, 216, 250, 295.

  Stukely, John, 45.

  -- Sir Lewis, 30, 45, 150, 334-43, 362-3, 369, 377, 383-4, 386-9, 395.

  -- Thomas, 142.

  Sully, Maximilien de Bethune, duc de, Baron de Rosny, 156, 184, 254, 295.

  Sussex, Thomas Ratcliffe, Earl of, 23, 33.

  Swale, M.P., 159.

  Talbot, John, 248, 316.

  -- Mrs., 369.

  Tarleton, Richard, 59.

  Taxis, Juan de, 240.

  Tempest, the Jesuit, 142.

  Temple, Middle, 12, 103.

  Tenures before the Conquest, 269.

  Thome, San, or St. Thomas, 123, 290, 318, 320-23, 332, 350-51, 353-5,
    357, 393.

  Thomond, Donogh O'Brien, 4th Earl of, 330.

  Thou, Jacques Auguste de, 199, 227.

  Throckmorton, Sir Arthur, 91, 129, 131.

  -- Sir Nicholas, 88, 213.

  Thynne, Captain, 82.

  -- Francis, 372.

  Tichborne, Sir Benjamin, 157, 221, 239-40.

  Tillage Act, 158.

  Tissaphernes, 204.

  Toparimaca, 115.

  Topiowari, King, 115, 117, 123.

  Torporley, 295.

  Tounson, Robert, Dean of Westminster, and Bishop of Salisbury, 372-6,
    378-9, 395.

  Tower-hill, 248, 289.

  Tower of London, 88, 246-7, 342-3, 387.

  -- Beauchamp-tower, 248.

  -- Bloody-tower, 194, 247, 249, 265, 297, 347.

  -- Brick-tower, 94, 348.

  -- Wardrobe-tower, 348.

  -- White-tower, 248.

  Treason, law of, 213-4.

  Trelawny, Mayor of Plymouth, 313.

  Triangle Islands, 317.

  Tubus Historicus, 282.

  Tunstall, Cuthbert, Bishop of London, and of Durham, 104.

  Turner, Dr. Peter, 230, 247-8, 363.

  Tyringham, 345.

  Tyrone, Hugh O'Neill, Earl of, 125.

  Tyrwhit, Robert, 300.

  Tytler, Patrick Fraser, 198.

  Udal, Rev. John, 55.

  Ulloa, Julian Sanchez de, 360, 364.

  Vera, Domingo de, 110, 123.

  Vere, Edward de, 17th Earl of Oxford, 57, 155.

  -- Henry de, 18th Earl, 375.

  -- Sir Francis, 126-8, 130-1, 134, 138.

  Villiers, Sir George, Duke of Buckingham, 30, 263, 293-4, 328, 347, 350,
    360, 367-8, 370, 395, 397.

  -- Sir Edward, 294, 302.

  Virginia, 44, 48, 101, 288-9.

  Vyne, the, 157.

  Waad, or Wade, Sir William, 192-3, 199, 208-9, 217, 249-51, 255, 266.

  Walsingham, Sir Francis, 11, 14, 19, 22, 37, 42, 45, 57.

  -- Lady, 144.

  Walton, Izaak, 78.

  Wanchese, 44-5.

  War by Sea, Art of, 257, 284, 385.

  War in General, 267.

  War with Spain, 31.

  Warburton, Mr. Justice, Sir Peter, 209.

  Warner, William, 295.

  Warwick, Lady Anne Russell, Countess of, 62.

  Watson, Rev. William, 186, 193, 208, 215, 229, 236.

  Watts, Sir John, 290.

  Weekes, 387.

  Welldon, or Weldon, Sir Anthony, 217, 255.

  West Indies, Treatise of the, 270.

  Westwood, 120.

  Whiddon, Captain Jacob, 50, 111, 113.

  White, Captain John, 46-7.

  Whitelocke, Captain, 251.

  Whitney, Aubrey's cousin, 249.

  -- Captain, 311, 319, 320, 322, 325, 327.

  Whyte, Rowland, 133, 144, 146, 151.

  Wiemark, 394.

  Williams, Sir Roger, 64, 67.

  Wilson, Sir Thomas, 304-5, 308, 311, 326, 341, 343, 346-52, 358, 365,
    368-9, 383-5.

  Winchester Castle, 209, 228.

  Wingina, King, 44, 46.

  Winstanley, William, 282.

  Winter, Admiral, 17.

  Winwood, Sir Ralph, 156, 205, 293, 304-11, 323-4; death, 328, 337, 391-2.

  Witherhead, Thomas, Bishop of Lismore and Waterford, 95.

  Wollaston, Captain, 311, 319-20, 322, 325, 327.

  -- Mr., 351.

  Wolvesey Castle, 209.

  Wood, Anthony à, 7, 54, 77, 89, 382.

  Worcester, Edward Somerset, Earl of, 255, 344.

  Wotton, Sir Henry, 23, 56, 138, 274, 382.

  -- Sir Edward, Lord Wotton, 209.

  Yelverton, Sir Henry, Mr. Justice, 362, 366, 389.

  -- his commonplace book, 195.

  Yeomen of the Guard, 34-5.

  Zechelius, of Nuremberg, 266.

  Zouch, Captain John, 21.

  -- Lord, 332.

  Zucchero, Federigo, 6, 28.

THE END.