  Education.--Under the old conservative régime very little was done
  for the public school outside the larger towns. As a large proportion
  of the labouring classes lived in the small towns and rural
  communities, they received comparatively little attention. The
  increasing influence of more liberal ideas greatly improved the
  situation with reference to popular education, and the government now
  makes vigorous efforts to bring its public school system within the
  reach of all. The constitution provides that free instruction must be
  provided for the people. School attendance is not compulsory, however,
  and the gain upon illiteracy (75%) appears to be very slow. The
  government also gives primary instruction to recruits when serving
  with the colours, which, with the increasing employment of the people
  in the towns, helps to stimulate a desire for education among the
  lower classes. Education in Chile is very largely under the control of
  the national government, the minister of justice and public
  instruction being charged with the direction of all public schools
  from the university down to the smallest and most remote primary
  school. The system includes the University of Chile and National
  Institute at Santiago, lyceums or high schools in all the provincial
  capitals and larger towns, normal schools at central points for the
  training of public school teachers, professional and industrial
  schools, military schools and primary schools. Instruction in all
  these is free, and under certain conditions text-books are supplied.
  In the normal schools, where the pupils are trained to enter the
  public service as primary teachers, not only is the tuition free, but
  also books, board, lodging and everything needed in their school work.
  The national university at Santiago comprises faculties of theology,
  law and political science, medicine and pharmacy, natural sciences and
  mathematics, and philosophy. The range of studies is wide, and the
  attendance large. The National Institute at Santiago is the principal
  high school of the secondary grade in Chile. There were 30 of these
  high schools for males and 12 for females in 1903, with an aggregate
  of 11,504 matriculated students. The normal schools for males are
  located at Santiago, Chillán and Valdivia; and for females at La
  Serena, Santiago and Concepción. The mining schools at Copiapó, La
  Serena and Santiago had an aggregate attendance of 180 students in
  1903, and the commercial schools at Iquique and Santiago an attendance
  of 214. The more important agricultural schools are located at
  Santiago, Chillán, Concepción and Ancud, the Quinta Normal de
  Agricultura in the national capital having a large attendance. The
  School of Mechanic Arts and Trades (Escuela de Artes y Oficios) of
  Santiago has a high reputation for the practical character of its
  instruction, in which it is admirably seconded by a normal handicraft
  school (Slöyd system) and a night school of industrial drawing in the
  same city, and professional schools for girls in Santiago and
  Valparaiso, where the pupils are taught millinery, dress-making,
  knitting, embroidery and fancy needlework. The government also
  maintains schools for the blind and for the deaf and dumb. The public
  primary schools numbered 1961 in 1903, with 3608 teachers, 166,928
  pupils enrolled, and an average attendance of 108,582. The cost of
  maintaining these schools was 4,146,574 pesos, or an average of
  £2:17:3 per pupil in attendance. In addition to the public schools
  there are a Roman Catholic university at Santiago, which includes law
  and civil engineering among its regular courses of study; numerous
  private schools and seminaries of the secondary grade, with a total of
  11,184 students of both sexes in 1903; and 506 private primary
  schools, with an attendance of 29,684. The private schools usually
  conform to the official requirements in regard to studies and
  examinations, which facilitates subsequent admission to the university
  and the obtainment of degrees; probably they do better work than the
  public schools, especially in the German settlements of the southern
  provinces. A Consejo de Instrucción Pública (council of public
  instruction) of 14 members exercises a general supervision over the
  higher and secondary schools. There are schools of music and fine arts
  in Santiago. The national library at Santiago, with 116,300 volumes in
  1906, and the national observatory, are both efficiently administered.
  At the beginning of the 20th century there were 41 public libraries in
  the republic, including public school collections, with an aggregate
  of 240,000 volumes.

  Charities.--According to the returns of 1903 there were 88 hospitals
  in the republic, which reported 79,051 admissions during the year, and
  had 6215 patients under treatment at its close; 628,536 patients
  received gratuitous medical assistance at the public dispensaries
  during the year; there were 24 foundling hospitals with 5570 children;
  and there were 3092 persons in the various hospicios or asylums, and
  1478 in the imbecile asylums.

  Religion.--The Roman Catholic religion is declared by the
  constitution to be the religion of the state, and the inaugural oath
  of the president pledges him to protect it. A considerable part of its
  income is derived from a subsidy included in the annual budget, which
  makes it a charge upon the national treasury like any other public
  service. The secular supervision of this service is entrusted to a
  member of the president's cabinet, known as the minister of worship
  and colonization. The executive and legislative powers intervene in
  the appointments to the higher offices of the Church. The greater part
  of the population remains loyal to the established faith. The law of
  1865 gives the privilege of religious worship to other faiths, and the
  laws of 1883 made civil marriage and the civil registry of births,
  deaths and marriages obligatory, and secularized the cemeteries. Under
  the reform of 1865 full religious freedom is practically accorded, and
  it is provided that the services of religious organizations other than
  the Roman Catholic may be held in private residences or in edifices
  owned by private individuals or corporations. Of the 72,812 foreigners
  residing in Chile in 1895, about 16,000 were described as Protestants.
  Notwithstanding the opposition of some political elements to the
  Church, the Chileans themselves may all be classed as Roman Catholics.
  The ecclesiastical organization includes one archbishop, who resides
  at Santiago, three bishops residing at La Serena, Concepción and
  Ancud, and two vicars residing in Antofagasta and Tarapacá. These
  benefices are filled by appointments from lists of three prepared by
  the council of state and sent to Rome by the president, and in the
  case of an archbishop or bishop the appointment must also receive the
  approval of the Senate. The Chilean clergy are drawn very largely from
  the higher classes, and their social standing is much better than in
  many South American states. The Church also possesses much property of
  its own, and is therefore able to maintain itself on a comparatively
  small subsidy from the public treasury, which was 985,910 pesos
  (£73,943) in 1902. The Church maintains seminaries in all cathedral
  towns, and these also receive a subsidy from the government.

