A COMPILATION OF THE MESSAGES AND PAPERS OF THE PRESIDENTS

BY JAMES D. RICHARDSON

Theodore Roosevelt

September 14, 1901

       *       *       *       *       *

Messages, Proclamations, and Executive Orders to the end of the Fifty-seventh Congress, First
Session

       *       *       *       *       *

Theodore Roosevelt

Theodore Roosevelt, the twenty-seventh President of the United States, was born in the city
of New York, October 27, 1858. His ancestors on the paternal side were of an old Knickerbocker
family, and on the maternal side of Scotch-Irish descent. He was educated at home under private
tuition and prepared for matriculation into Harvard, where he was graduated in 1880. He spent
the year of 1881 in study and travel. During the years 1882-1884 he was an assemblyman in the
legislature of New York. During this term of service he introduced the first civil service
bill in the legislature in 1883, and its passage was almost simultaneous with the passage of
the Civil Service Bill through Congress. In 1884 he was the Chairman of the delegation from
New York to the National Republican Convention. He received the nomination for mayor of the
city of New York in 1886 as an Independent, but was defeated. He was made Civil Service Commissioner
by President Harrison in 1889 and served as president of the board until May, 1895. He resigned
to become President of the New York Board of Police Commissioners in May, 1895. This position,
in which the arduous duties were discharged with remarkable vigor and fearlessness, he resigned
in 1897 to become Assistant Secretary of the Navy. On the breaking out of the Spanish-American
War in 1898, he resigned on May 6, and, entering the army, organized the First United States
Volunteer ("Rough Rider") Regiment of Cavalry, recommending Col. L.G. Wood to the command,
and taking for himself the second-in-command as lieutenant-colonel. He had gained his military
experience as a member of the Eighth Regiment of N.Y.N.G. from 1884-1888, during which time
he rose to the rank of captain. The Rough Riders were embarked at Tampa, Fla., with the advance
of Shafter's invading army, and sailed for Cuba on June 15, 1898. They participated in every
engagement preceding the fall of Santiago. Theodore Roosevelt led the desperate charge of the
Ninth Cavalry and the Rough Riders at the Battle of San Juan Hill on July 1. He was made a
colonel on July 11. He received the nomination on September 27, 1898, for Governor of the State
of New York, obtaining 753 votes, against 218 for Gov. Frank S. Black. At the election Theodore
Roosevelt was supported by a majority of the Independent Republicans and many Democrats, and
defeated the Democratic candidate, Judge Augustus Van Wyck, by a plurality of 18,079. At the
Republican Convention, held at Philadelphia in June, 1900, he was nominated for Vice-President,
upon which he resigned the governorship of New York. Was elected Vice-President in November,
1900, and took the oath of office March 4, 1901. President McKinley was shot September 6, 1901,
and died September 14. His Cabinet announced his death to the Vice-President, who took the
oath of President at the residence of Mr. Ansley Wilcox in Buffalo, before Judge John R. Hazel,
of the United States District Court, on September 14.

VICE-PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT'S INAUGURAL ADDRESS AS VICE-PRESIDENT.

The history of free government is in large part the history of those representative legislative
bodies in which, from the earliest times, free government has found its loftiest expression.
They must ever hold a peculiar and exalted position in the record which tells how the great
nations of the world have endeavored to achieve and preserve orderly freedom. No man can render
to his fellows greater service than is rendered by him who, with fearlessness and honesty,
with sanity and disinterestedness, does his life work as a member of such a body. Especially
is this the case when the legislature in which the service is rendered is a vital part in the
governmental machinery of one of those world powers to whose hands, in the course of the ages,
is intrusted a leading part in shaping the destinies of mankind. For weal or for woe, for good
or for evil, this is true of our own mighty nation. Great privileges and great powers are ours,
and heavy are the responsibilities that go with these privileges and these powers. Accordingly
as we do well or ill, so shall mankind in the future be raised or cast down. We belong to a
young nation, already of giant strength, yet whose political strength is but a forecast of
the power that is to come. We stand supreme in a continent, in a hemisphere. East and west
we look across the two great oceans toward the larger world life in which, whether we will
or not, we must take an ever-increasing share. And as, keen-eyed, we gaze into the coming years,
duties, new and old, rise thick and fast to confront us from within and from without. There
is every reason why we should face these duties with a sober appreciation alike of their importance
and of their difficulty. But there is also every reason for facing them with highhearted resolution
and eager and confident faith in our capacity to do them aright. A great work lies already
to the hand of this generation; it should count itself happy, indeed, that to it is given the
privilege of doing such a work. A leading part therein must be taken by this the august and
powerful legislative body over which I have been called upon to preside. Most deeply do I appreciate
the privilege of my position; for high, indeed, is the honor of presiding over the American
Senate at the outset of the twentieth century.

MARCH 4, 1901.

MESSAGE.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, December 16, 1901.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, March 11, 1902.

To the Senate of the United States:

I return without approval Senate bill, No. 1258 entitled "An act to remove the charge of desertion
from the naval record of John Glass."

There can be no graver crime than the crime of desertion from the Army or Navy, especially
during war; it is then high treason to the nation, and is justly punishable by death. No man
should be relieved from such a crime, especially when nearly forty years have passed since
it occurred, save on the clearest possible proof of his real innocence. In this case the statement
made by the affiant before the committee does not in all points agree with his statement made
to the Secretary of the Navy. In any event it is incomprehensible to me that he should not
have made effective effort to get back into the Navy.

He had served but little more than a month when he deserted, and the war lasted for over a
year afterwards, yet he made no effort whatever to get back into the war. Under such circumstances
it seems to me that to remove the charge of desertion from the Navy and give him an honorable
discharge would be to falsify the records and do an injustice to his gallant and worthy comrades
who fought the war to a finish. The names of the veterans who fought in the civil war make
the honor list of the Republic, and I am not willing to put upon it the name of a man unworthy
of the high position.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, Washington, May 12, 1902.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

One of the greatest calamities in history has fallen upon our neighboring island of Martinique.
The consul of the United States at Guadeloupe has telegraphed from Fort de France, under date
of yesterday, that the disaster is complete; that the city of St. Pierre has ceased to exist;
and that the American consul and his family have perished. He is informed that 30,000 people
have lost their lives and that 50,000 are homeless and hungry; that there is urgent need of
all kinds of provisions, and that the visit of vessels for the work of supply and rescue is
imperatively required.

The Government of France, while expressing their thanks for the marks of sympathy which have
reached them from America, inform us that Fort de France and the entire island of Martinique
are still threatened. They therefore request that, for the purpose of rescuing the people who
are in such deadly peril and threatened with starvation, the Government of the United States
may send, as soon as possible, the means of transporting them from the stricken island. The
island of St. Vincent and, perhaps, others in that region are also seriously menaced by the
calamity which has taken so appalling a form in Martinique.

I have directed the departments of the Treasury, of War, and of the Navy to take such measures
for the relief of these stricken people as lies within the Executive discretion, and I earnestly
commend this case of unexampled disaster to the generous consideration of the Congress. For
this purpose I recommend that an appropriation of $500,000 be made, to be immediately available.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, June 13, 1902.

This recommendation was merely giving practical effect to President McKinley's words, when,
in his messages of December 5, 1898, and December 5, 1899, he wrote:

  It is important that our relations with this people (of Cuba) shall be
  of the most friendly character and our commercial relations close and
  reciprocal. * * * The greatest blessing
  which can come to Cuba is the restoration of her agricultural and
  industrial prosperity.

Yesterday, June 12, I received, by cable from the American minister in Cuba, a most earnest
appeal from President Palma for "legislative relief before it is too late and (his) country
financially ruined."

The granting of reciprocity with Cuba is a proposition which stands entirely alone. The reasons
for it far outweigh those for granting reciprocity with any other nation, and are entirely
consistent with preserving intact the protective system under which this country has thriven
so marvelously. The present tariff law was designed to promote the adoption of such a reciprocity
treaty, and expressly provided for a reduction not to exceed 20 per cent upon goods coming
from a particular country, leaving the tariff rates on the same articles unchanged as regards
all other countries. Objection has been made to the granting of the reduction on the ground
that the substantial benefit would not go to the agricultural producer of sugar, but would
inure to the American sugar refiners. In my judgment provision can and should be made which
will guarantee us against this possibility, without having recourse to a measure of doubtful
policy, such as a bounty in the form of a rebate.

The question as to which if any of the different schedules of the tariff ought most properly
to be revised does not enter into this matter in any way or shape. We are concerned with getting
a friendly reciprocal arrangement with Cuba. This arrangement applies to all the articles that
Cuba grows or produces. It is not in our power to determine what these articles shall be, and
any discussion of the tariff as it affects special schedules or countries other than Cuba is
wholly aside from the subject matter to which I call your attention.

Some of our citizens oppose the lowering of the tariff on Cuban products just as three years
ago they opposed the admission of the Hawaiian Islands lest free trade with them might ruin
certain of our interests here. In the actual event their fears proved baseless as regards Hawaii,
and their apprehensions as to the damage to any industry of our own because of the proposed
measure of reciprocity with Cuba seem to me equally baseless. In my judgment no American industry
will be hurt, and many American industries will be benefited by the proposed action. It is
to our advantage as a nation that the growing Cuban market should be controlled by American
producers.

The events following the war with Spain, and the prospective building of the Isthmian Canal,
render it certain that we must take in the future a far greater interest than hitherto in what
happens throughout the West Indies, Central America, and the adjacent coasts and waters. We
expect Cuba to treat us on an exceptional footing politically, and we should put her in the
same exceptional position economically. The proposed action is in line with the course we have
pursued as regards all the islands with which we have been brought into relations of varying
intimacy by the Spanish war. Puerto Rico and Hawaii have been included within our tariff lines,
to their great benefit as well as ours, and without any of the feared detriment to our own
industries. The Philippines, which stand in a different relation, have been granted substantial
tariff concessions.

Cuba is an independent republic, but a republic which has assumed certain special obligations
as regards her international position in compliance with our request. I ask for her certain
special economic concessions in return; these economic concessions to benefit us as well as
her. There are few brighter pages in American history than the page which tells of our dealings
with Cuba during the past four years. On her behalf we waged a war of which the mainspring
was generous indignation against oppression; and we have kept faith absolutely. It is earnestly
to be hoped that we will complete in the same spirit the record so well begun, and show in
our dealings with Cuba that steady continuity of policy which it is essential for our nation
to establish in foreign affairs if we desire to play well our part as a world power.

We are a wealthy and powerful nation; Cuba is a young republic, still weak, who owes to us
her birth, whose whole future, whose very life, must depend on our attitude toward her. I ask
that we help her as she struggles upward along the painful and difficult road of self-governing
independence. I ask this aid for her, because she is weak, because she needs it, because we
have already aided her. I ask that open-handed help, of a kind which a self-respecting people
can accept, be given to Cuba, for the very reason that we have given her such help in the past.
Our soldiers fought to give her freedom; and for three years our representatives, civil and
military, have toiled unceasingly, facing disease of a peculiarly sinister and fatal type,
with patient and uncomplaining fortitude, to teach her how to use aright her new freedom. Never
in history has any alien country been thus administered, with such high integrity of purpose,
such wise judgment, and such single-minded devotion to the country's interests. Now, I ask
that the Cubans be given all possible chance to use to the best advantage the freedom of which
Americans have such right to be proud, and for which so many American lives have been sacrificed.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

PROCLAMATIONS. The President of the United States has been struck down; a crime not only against
the Chief Magistrate, but against every law-abiding and liberty-loving citizen.

President McKinley crowned a life of largest love for his fellow men, of earnest endeavor for
their welfare, by a death of Christian fortitude; and both the way in which he lived his life
and the way in which, in the supreme hour of trial, he met his death will remain forever a
precious heritage of our people.

It is meet that we as a nation express our abiding love and reverence for his life, our deep
sorrow for his untimely death.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, do appoint
Thursday next, September 19, the day in which the body of the dead President will be laid in
its last earthly resting place, as a day of mourning and prayer throughout the United States.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

This Thanksgiving finds the people still bowed with sorrow for the death of a great and good
President. We mourn President McKinley because we so loved and honored him; and the manner
of his death should awaken in the breasts of our people a keen anxiety for the country, and
at the same time a resolute purpose not to be driven by any calamity from the path of strong,
orderly, popular liberty which as a nation we have thus far safely trod.

Yet in spite of this great disaster, it is nevertheless true that no people on earth have such
abundant cause for thanksgiving as we have. The past year in particular has been one of peace
and plenty. We have prospered in things material and have been able to work for our own uplifting
in things intellectual and spiritual. Let us remember that, as much has been given us, much
will be expected from us; and that true homage comes from the heart as well as from the lips
and shows itself in deeds. We can best prove our thankfulness to the Almighty by the way in
which on this earth and at this time each of us does his duty to his fellow men.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

In township forty-five (45) north, range eleven (11) east, the following sections: one (1)
to five (5), both inclusive, east half of sections six (6) and seven (7), sections eight (8)
to seventeen (17), both inclusive, sections twenty (20) to twenty-eight (28), both inclusive,
east half of section twenty-nine (29) and sections thirty-three (33) to thirty-six (36), both
inclusive.

In township forty-three (43) north, range twelve (12) east, the following sections: one (1)
to five (5), both inclusive, and sections eight (8) to twelve (12), both inclusive.

In township forty-four (44) north, range twelve (12) east, the following sections: one (1)
to thirty-five (35), both inclusive.

In township forty-five (45) north, range twelve (12) east, the following sections: two (2)
to eleven (11), both inclusive, and sections thirteen (13) to thirty-five (35), both inclusive.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Provided further, That nothing herein shall give any force or effect to any claim or right
to any of the lands heretofore embraced within the said San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserves
which would not have been entitled to recognition if said reserves as heretofore established
had been continued in force without this consolidation.

The reserve hereby created shall be known as the San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserve.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

And whereas, all the conditions required by law to be performed prior to the opening of said
lands to settlement and entry have been, as I hereby declare, duly performed, except the sale
of the improvements mentioned above, but as this is not considered a bar to the opening of
the unallotted and unreserved lands to settlement and entry.

The purchaser of the improvements on lands situated within five miles of the town of Pocatello
will have no preference right of entry of the tract on which such improvements are situated,
as the law provides that "all of said lands within five miles of the boundary line of the town
of Pocatello shall be sold at public auction."

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT. 982 of the Revised Statutes of Wyoming (1899); thence, in a general northwesterly
and northerly direction, along said county line to its intersection with the southern boundary
of the Yellowstone National Park; thence, in an easterly and northerly direction, along the
southern and eastern boundaries of said park to the point of intersection with the boundary
line between the States of Wyoming and Montana, the place of beginning, to be known as the
Yellowstone Forest Reserve;

THE TETON FOREST RESERVE.

Beginning at the point where the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Idaho intersects
the southern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park; thence easterly along the southern
boundary of said park to its intersection with the western boundary line of Big Horn County,
Wyoming, as defined in Sec.

[SEAL.]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

[SEAL.]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, by virtue of the power
in me vested by section six of said act of Congress of June 6, 1900, do hereby declare and
make known that said land is hereby restored to the public domain, to be disposed of to said
city for park purposes under said act of Congress approved September 30, 1890.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Whereas many of the inhabitants of the Philippine archipelago were in insurrection against
the authority and sovereignty of the kingdom of Spain at divers times from August, 1896, until
the cession of the archipelago by that kingdom to the United States of America, and since such
cession many of the persons so engaged in insurrection have until recently resisted the authority
and sovereignty of the United States; and

Whereas the insurrection against the authority and sovereignty of the United States is now
at an end, and peace has been established in all parts of the archipelago except in the country
inhabited by the Moro tribes, to which this proclamation does not apply; and

Whereas during the course of the insurrection against the kingdom of Spain and against the
government of the United States, persons engaged therein, or those in sympathy with and abetting
them, committed many acts in violation of the laws of civilized warfare; but it is believed
that such acts were generally committed in ignorance of these laws, and under orders issued
by the civil or military insurrectionary leaders; and

Whereas it is deemed to be wise and humane, in accordance with the beneficent purposes of the
government of the United States toward the Filipino people, and conducive to peace, order and
loyalty among them, that the doers of such acts who have not already suffered punishment shall
not be held criminally responsible, but shall be relieved from punishment for participation
in these insurrections and for unlawful acts committed during the course thereof by a general
amnesty and pardon;

Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America,
by virtue of the power and authority vested by the Constitution, do hereby proclaim and declare,
without reservation or condition, except as hereinafter provided, a full and complete pardon
and amnesty to all persons in the Philippine archipelago who have participated in the insurrections
aforesaid, or who have given aid and comfort to persons participating in said insurrections,
for the offenses of treason or sedition, and for all offenses political in their character
committed in the course of such insurrections pursuant to orders issued by the civil or military
insurrectionary authorities, or which grow out of internal political feuds or dissensions between
Filipinos and Spaniards, or the Spanish authorities, or which resulted from internal political
feuds or dissensions among the Filipinos themselves during either of said insurrections.

Provided, however, that the pardon and amnesty hereby granted shall not include such persons
committing crimes since May 1, 1902, in any province of the archipelago in which at the time
civil government was established, nor shall it include such persons as have been heretofore
finally convicted of the crimes of murder, rape, arson, or robbery, by any military or civil
tribunal organized under the authority of Spain or of the United States of America, but special
application may be made to the proper authority for pardon by any person belonging to the exempted
classes and such clemency as is consistent with humanity and justice will be liberally extended;
and, further

Provided, That this amnesty and pardon shall not affect the title or right of the Government
of the United States or that of the Philippine Islands to any property or property rights heretofore
used or appropriated by the military or civil authorities of the Government of the United States
or that of the Philippine Islands organized under authority of the United States by way of
confiscation or otherwise; and

Provided further, That every person who shall seek to avail himself of this proclamation shall
take and subscribe the following oath before any authority in the Philippine archipelago authorized
to administer oaths, namely: "I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I recognize and accept the
supreme authority of the United States of America in the Philippine Islands and will maintain
true faith and allegiance thereto; that I impose upon myself this obligation voluntarily without
mental reservation or purpose of evasion so help me God."

Given under my hand at the city of Washington, this 4th day of July, A.D. 1902, and in the
one hundred and twenty-seventh year of the Independence of the United States.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President:
  ELIHU ROOT,
    Secretary of War.

Gen. Chaffee is relieved of his civil duties, and the Philippine Commission is made the superior
authority in the following order:

The insurrection against the sovereign authority of the United States in the Philippine archipelago
having ended, and provincial civil governments having been established throughout the entire
territory of the archipelago not inhabited by Moro tribes, under the instructions of the President
to the Philippine Commission, dated April 7, 1900, now ratified and confirmed by the act of
Congress approved July 1, 1902, entitled "An act temporarily to provide for the administration
of affairs of civil government in the Philippine Islands, and for other purposes," the general
commanding the division of the Philippines is hereby relieved from the further performance
of the duties of military governor, and the office of military governor in said archipelago
is terminated.

Finally the President, through Secretary Root, pronounces the following eulogy upon the United
States Army:

HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
  ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
    Washington, July 4, 1902.

General Order, No. 66.

The following has been received from the War Department:

  WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, July 4, 1902.

To the Army of the United States:

The President, upon this anniversary of national independence, wishes to express to the officers
and enlisted men of the United States Army his deep appreciation of the service they have rendered
to the country in the great and difficult undertakings which they have brought to a successful
conclusion during the past year.

He thanks the officers and the enlisted men who have been maintaining order and carrying on
the military government in Cuba, because they have faithfully given effect to the humane purposes
of the American people. They have with sincere kindness helped the Cuban people to take all
the successive steps necessary to the establishment of their own constitutional government.
During the time required for that process they have governed Cuba wisely, regarding justice
and respecting individual liberty; have honestly collected and expended for the best interests
of the Cuban people the revenues, amounting to over $60,000,000; have carried out practical
and thorough sanitary measures, greatly improving the health and lowering the death rate of
the island. By patient, scientific research they have ascertained the causes of yellow fever,
and by good administration have put an end to that most dreadful disease which has long destroyed
the lives and hindered the commercial prosperity of the Cubans. They have expedited justice
and secured protection for the rights of the innocent, while they have cleansed the prisons
and established sound discipline and healthful conditions for the punishment of the guilty.

They have re-established and renovated and put upon a substantial basis adequate hospitals
and asylums for the care of the unfortunate. They have established a general system of free
common schools throughout the island, in which over two hundred thousand children are in actual
attendance. They have constructed great and necessary public works. They have gradually trained
the Cubans themselves in all branches of administration, so that the new government upon assuming
power has begun its work with an experienced force of Cuban civil service employees competent
to execute its orders. They have borne themselves with dignity and self-control, so that nearly
four years of military government have passed unmarred by injury or insult to man or woman.
They have transferred the government of Cuba to the Cuban people amid universal expressions
of friendship and good will, and have left a record of ordered justice and liberty of rapid
improvement in material and moral conditions and progress in the art of government which reflects
great credit upon the people of the United States.

The President thanks the officers and enlisted men of the army in the Philippines, both regulars
and volunteers, for the courage and fortitude, the indomitable spirit and loyal devotion with
which they have put down and ended the great insurrection which has raged throughout the archipelago
against the lawful sovereignty and just authority of the United States. The task was peculiarly
difficult and trying. They were required at first to overcome organized resistance of superior
numbers, well equipped with modern arms of precision, intrenched in an unknown country of mountain
defiles, jungles, and swamps, apparently capable of interminable defense. When this resistance
had been overcome they were required to crush out a general system of guerrilla warfare conducted
among a people speaking unknown tongues, from whom it was almost impossible to obtain the information
necessary for successful pursuit or to guard against surprise and ambush.

The enemies by whom they were surrounded were regardless of all obligations of good faith and
of all the limitations which humanity has imposed upon civilized warfare. Bound themselves
by the laws of war, our soldiers were called upon to meet every device of unscrupulous treachery
and to contemplate without reprisal the infliction of barbarous cruelties upon their comrades
and friendly natives. They were instructed, while punishing armed resistance, to conciliate
the friendship of the peaceful, yet had to do with a population among whom it was impossible
to distinguish friend from foe, and who in countless instances used a false appearance of friendship
for ambush and assassination. They were obliged to deal with problems of communication and
transportation in a country without roads and frequently made impassable by torrential rains.
They were weakened by tropical heat and tropical disease. Widely scattered over a great archipelago,
extending a thousand miles from north to south, the gravest responsibilities, involving the
life or death of their comrades, frequently devolved upon young and inexperienced officers
beyond the reach of specific orders or advice.

Under all these adverse circumstances the army of the Philippines has accomplished its task
rapidly and completely. In more than two thousand combats, great and small, within three years,
it has exhibited unvarying courage and resolution. Utilizing the lessons of the Indian wars
it has relentlessly followed the guerrilla bands to their fastness in mountain and jungle,
and crushed them. It has put an end to the vast system of intimidation and secret assassination,
by which the peaceful natives were prevented from taking a genuine part in government under
American authority. It has captured or forced to surrender substantially all the leaders of
the insurrection. It has submitted to no discouragement and halted at no obstacle. Its officers
have shown high qualities of command, and its men have shown devotion and discipline. Its splendid
virile energy has been accompanied by self-control, patience, and magnanimity.

With surprisingly few individual exceptions its course has been characterized by humanity and
kindness to the prisoner and the non-combatant. With admirable good temper, sympathy, and loyalty
to American ideals its commanding generals have joined with the civilian agents of the government
in healing the wounds of war and assuring to the people of the Philippines the blessings of
peace and prosperity. Individual liberty, protection of personal rights, civil order, public
instruction and religious freedom have followed its footsteps. It has added honor to the flag,
which it defended, and has justified increased confidence in the future of the American people,
whose soldiers do not shrink from labor or death, yet love liberty and peace.

The President feels that he expresses the sentiments of all the loyal people of the United
States in doing honor to the whole army which has joined in the performance and shares in the
credit of these honorable services.

This general order will be read aloud at parade in every military post on the 4th day of July,
1902, or on the first day after it shall have been received.

ELIHU ROOT,
  Secretary of War.

By command of Lieutenant-General Miles:

H.C. CORBIN,
  Adjutant-General, Major-General, U.S.A.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, do hereby declare said
agreement duly ratified and that all the provisions thereof became law according to the terms
thereof upon the twenty-sixth day of July, 1902.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President:
   ALVEY A. ADEE,
    Acting Secretary of State.

EXECUTIVE ORDERS.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

October 15, 1901.

On and after January 1, 1902, the following ratings and pay per month are established for the
petty officers and other enlisted men of the Commissary Branch of the United States Navy:

  RATING.                          MONTHLY PAY.

  Chief Commissary Steward                  $70
  Commissary Steward                         60
  Ship's Cook, 1st class                     55
  Ship's Cook, 2d class                      40
  Ship's Cook, 3d class                      30
  Ship's Cook, 4th Class                     25
  Baker, 1st class                           45
  Baker, 2d class                            35

Landsmen detailed as crew messmen shall while so acting except when appointed as reliefs during
temporary absence of the regular crew messmen receive extra compensation at the rate of $5
per month.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, October 30, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that Harbor Island, and three islets southeast thereof in Sitka Harbor,
District of Alaska, be and they are hereby reserved for the use of the Revenue Cutter Service
subject to any legal existing rights.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, November 11, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that the southwest quarter, section twenty-nine, and the southeast quarter,
section thirty, township one south, range eighteen west, San Bernardino base and meridian,
California, be and they are hereby reserved for lighthouse purposes, subject to any legal existing
rights.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, November 15, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that San Nicolas Island, California, be and it is hereby reserved for
lighthouse purposes.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

November 26, 1901.

From and after January 1, 1901, all enlisted men of the Navy will be allowed seventy-five cents
per month in addition to the pay of their ratings for each good conduct medal, pin, or bar,
issued for service, terminating after December 31, 1901.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, December 3, 1901.

From and after January 1, 1902, each enlisted man of the Navy who holds a certificate as a
credit from the Petty Officers' School of Instruction, Navy Training Station, Newport, R.I.,
shall receive two dollars per month in addition to the pay of his rating.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, December 9, 1901.

From and after January 1, 1902, the classification and monthly pay of Mess Attendants in the
United States Navy shall be as follows:

  Mess Attendants, 1st class                $24
  Mess Attendants, 2d class                  20
  Mess Attendants, 3d class                  16

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, December 19, 1901.

Such public lands as may exist on Culebra Island between the parallels of 18° 15' and 18° 23'
north latitude, and between the meridians of 65° 10' and 65° 25' west longitude, are hereby
placed under the jurisdiction of the Navy Department.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

January 17, 1902.

The attention of the Departments is hereby called to the provisions of the laws giving preference
to veterans in appointment and retention.

The President desires that wherever the needs of the service will justify it and the law will
permit preference shall be given alike in appointment and retention to honorably discharged
veterans of the Civil War, who are fit and well qualified to perform the duties of the places
which they seek or are filling.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

January 31, 1902.

All officers and employees of the United States of every description serving in or under any
of the Executive Departments and whether so serving in or out of Washington are hereby forbidden
either direct or indirect, individually or through associations, to solicit an increase of
pay, or to influence or to attempt to influence in their own interest any legislation whatever,
either before Congress or its Committees, or in any way save through the heads of the Departments
in or under which they serve, on penalty of dismissal from the government service.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

February 5, 1902.

As it is desirable in view of the expected visit of his Royal Highness, Prince Henry of Prussia,
to the United States that suitable arrangements should be made for his reception and entertainment
during his sojourn in the United States, I hereby designate the following named persons to
serve as delegates for this purpose, and do hereby authorize and empower them to make such
engagements, incur such expenses, and to draw upon the Secretary of State for such moneys as
may be necessary with which to pay the expenses thus incurred, to an amount to be determined
by the Secretary of State.

The Assistant Secretary of State, David J. Hill, representing the Department of State.

Major-General Henry C. Corbin, Adjutant-General, U.S.A., representing the War Department.

Rear-Admiral Robley D. Evans, U.S.N., representing the Navy Department, and to be Honorary
A.D.C. to his Royal Highness.

The following officers are detailed to assist the delegates:

Colonel T.A. Bingham, U.S.A., Military Aide to the President; Commander W.S. Cowles, U.S.N.,
Navy Aide to the President.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, February 15, 1902.

In accordance with the provisions of Section 2212 of the Revised Statutes and by virtue of
the authority thereby given, it is hereby ordered that the office of Surveyor-General in the
surveying district of the Territory of Arizona, be and it is hereby located at Phoenix, Arizona,
and the office of Surveyor-General at Tucson, Arizona, is hereby discontinued, and the records
and business thereof are hereby transferred to the office of Surveyor-General at Tucson, Arizona.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

March 24, 1902.

Paragraph 451 of the Consular Regulations of 1896 is hereby amended by the addition of the
following:

  No consular officer shall accept an appointment to office from any
  foreign state as administrator, guardian or any other fiduciary capacity
  for the settlement or conservation of the estate of deceased persons,
  or of their heirs or of other persons under legal disabilities, without
  having been previously authorized by the Secretary of State to do so.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, March 26, 1902.

It is hereby ordered that the building known as the "office" and a tract of land 200 feet square,
the center of which shall be identical with that of the building, and the sides of which shall
be parallel with those of the building in the limits of the Fort Yuma Abandoned Military Reservation,
Arizona, be and they are hereby reserved and set apart for the use of the Weather Bureau.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

To the Heads of the Executive Departments:

As a mark of respect to the memory of the Right Honorable Lord Pauncefote, of Preston, Late
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Great Britain to the United States, the President
directs that the National flag be displayed at half-mast upon the White House and other federal
buildings in the city of Washington on Wednesday, March 28, 1902, the day of the funeral.

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,
  Secretary to the President.

WHITE HOUSE, April 29, 1902.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, April 30, 1902.

It is hereby ordered that the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter and lot 4 of section
32, township one south, range 18 west, San Bernardino base and meridian, California, be and
they are hereby reserved for light-house purposes, subject to any legal existing rights.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

May 12, 1902.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, May 12, 1902.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, June 13, 1902.

It is hereby ordered that the southwest quarter section thirty-four township twenty-three north,
range one east, Willamette Meridian, Washington, be and it is hereby reserved and set apart
for the use of the Navy Department for the purposes of a target range.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, July 10, 1902.

No enlisted person in the Navy service of the United States shall be discharged therefrom prior
to the completion of his term of enlistment, except for one of the following causes: Undesirability,
inaptitude, physical or mental disability, or unfitness.

In every case, the recommendation for such discharge must be made by the commanding officer
of the vessel on which the man may be serving.

Applications for discharges which reach the department except through the commanding officers
of vessels shall be without exception disregarded.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

OYSTER BAY, July 19, 1902.

The act of Congress approved June 14, 1902, having amended the Revised Statutes of the United
States so as to permit of the issuance of passports to persons owing allegiance to the United
States, whether citizens of the United States or not, and under such rules as the President
shall designate and prescribe on behalf of the United States, the instructions to the diplomatic
officers of the United States and the United States Consular regulations are hereby so modified
and amended as to permit diplomatic and consular officers of the United States having authority
to issue passports to issue them to residents of the Insular Possessions of the United States
who make satisfactory application. Each applicant under this provision must state in addition
to the information now required in the application of a citizen of the United States that he
owes allegiance to the United States and that he does not acknowledge allegiance to any other
government and must submit an affidavit from at least two credible witnesses having good means
of the knowledge in substantiation of his statements of birth and residence and loyalty. The
same fee shall be collected by diplomatic and consular officers of the United States for issuing
passports to residents of the Insular Possessions as is now required for issuing passports
to citizens of the United States.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, Washington, July 22, 1902.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, July 25, 1902.

It is hereby ordered under the provisions of section 4 of the act of Congress approved April
12, 1902, "To promote the efficiency of the Revenue Cutter Service," that the Secretary of
the Treasury shall "by direction of the President" when officers of the Revenue Cutter Service
reach the age limit of 64 years, retire from them active service.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, August 1, 1902.

From and after July 1, 1902, each enlisted man that has been rated Seaman Gunner prior to April
1, 1902, or that holds certificate of graduation from the Petty Officers' Schools, Seaman Gunner
Class, shall receive $2.00 per month in addition to the pay of his rating during current and
subsequent enlistments.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

WHITE HOUSE, August 9, 1902.

It is hereby ordered that the south half of the southeast quarter and the southwest quarter
of section 3, township 22 north, range 26 west, 6th principal meridian, Nebraska, be, and they
are hereby, reserved and set apart for the use of the Department of Agriculture for purposes
in connection with experimental tree planting.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX

A.

Acheen or Atjeh.--Population, 531,705.

Adee, Alvey A.:
  Acting Secretary of State, 169.

Africa:
  Repressing liquor trade in, suggestions made by Belgium, 60, 122.

African Slave Trade:
  International Congress at Brussels for abolition of, 60.

Agricultural, Department of:
  Discussed, 87, 152, 329.
  Sugar-beet culture, 41, 53, 111, 152.

Aguinaldo:
  Referred to, 104, 111.

Alabama.--Population (1900), 1,828,697.

Alaska.--Population (1900), 62,592.
  Discussed, 67, 126.
  Education in, preparation for, recommended, 150.
  Legislation, recommended, 32, 97.
  Military Department of, 32.
  Referred to, 32, 84, 150.

Alexander, Gen. E.P.:
  Settlement of question between Costa Rica and Nicaragua by, 124.

Algeria.--Area 184,474 square miles;
  population (1900) about 4,774,042.

Allen Contract Law, amendment of, recommended, 46, 152.

Amelia Island, a seacoast island on the northeast of Florida
  between the mouths of the St. Mary and Nassau rivers.

American Republics, Bureau of:
  Discussed, 47, 78, 133.
  Report of, transmitted and discussed, 47.

Annual Messages of President:
  McKinley, 22, 53, 113.
  Roosevelt, 315.

Arbitration, International:
  Attitude of Great Britain and United States discussed, 12, 30, 129.
  Treaty with Great Britain regarding, discussed, 13, 77.

Argentine Republic.--Area 1,113,849 square miles;
  population (1900), 4,794,149.
  Treaty with, discussed, 122.

Arizona Territory.--Population (1900), 122,212.

Arkansas.--Population (1900), 1,311,564.

Armenians obtaining citizenship in United States and returning
  to Turkey expelled, discussed, 132.

Army:
  Commanding officers and men praised by President Roosevelt, 395.
  Discussed by President--
    McKinley, 82, 146.
    Roosevelt, 343, 395.
  Eulogy on the Army of United States by President Roosevelt,
    won by their gallantry and efficiency in the Cuban and Philippine
    campaigns, 395.

Asia.--Population estimated in 1900 to be 923,367,000.

Attorney-General, Philander Chase Knox, Pennsylvania, born 1853;
  admitted to the bar 1875;
  present appointment April 5, 1901.

Australia.--Population (1901), 3,767,443.

Austria-Hungary.--Population (1900), 45,085,000.
  Claims of, regarding subjects killed in riot in Pennsylvania, 62.
  Expulsion of American citizens, 122.

Autonomous Government for Cuba discussed, 334.

B.

Bahama Islands.--Population (1901), 53,735.

Banks and Banking, special commission to make suggestions
  concerning, recommended, 328.

Banks, National.--The total number of banks organized under the
    act aggregates 5,820. Of these several have since become insolvent
    or gone into liquidation, leaving in April, 1902, a total of 4,423
    in operation, with resources aggregating $5,962,135,452, and a
    circulation of $309,781,740 outstanding.
  Discussed by President McKinley, 25, 55.

Banks, Savings.--There are now (1902), 1,007 such banks throughout
    this country with deposits aggregating $2,518,599,536.

Barbados Island.--Population (1902), 195,000.

Bates, Brigadier-General John C., transmitting his report
    in connection with the treaty effected by him with the Sultan
    of Sulu, 104.

Bavaria.--Population (1900), 6,176,057.

Bear, The:
  Referred to, 48.

Belgium.--Population (1899), 6,693,810.
  Convention with, for regulation slave trade, 60.
  Importations of American products to, restrictions upon, discussed, 60.
  Trade-marks, treaty with, regarding, 122.

Bering Sea Fisheries:
  Claims against Russia, 72.
  Questions with Great Britain regarding, 29.

Bermudas.--Population (1900), 17,535.

Bertholf, Ellsworth P., thanks of Congress to, recommended, 50.

Biographical Sketches of President:
  McKinley, 5.
  Roosevelt, 313.

Boer War.--Attitude of the United States concerning, 68, 104, 126.

Bolivia, diplomatic relations with, 61.
  Insurrection in, discussed, 61.
  War between Chile, Peru, and, 61.

Boston, The, mentioned, 64.

Boxers.--A religious sect in China who were largely responsible
  for the disturbance in that country in 1900. This indemnity
  is to constitute a gold debt re-payable in thirty-nine annual
  installments, due on Jan. 1st of each year up to 1941; interest at 4
  per cent to be payable half-yearly. The securities for the debt are
  the Imperial Maritime Customs, otherwise unappropriated, increased
  to five per cent ad valorem, the Navy Customs, and the Salt
  Tax otherwise unappropriated.

Brazil.--Boundary question with Bolivia discussed, 123.
  Relations with, 57.

Bremen.--Population (1900), 224,882.

British Colonies, commercial relations with, 78.

British Guiana.--Arbitration of, boundary questions discussed, 77.
  Tariff laws of, evidence of modification of, proclaimed, 78.

Buffalo, Pan-American Exposition at, 79, 133.
  In order to wipe out the deficit incurred in this enterprise Congress
  voted an appropriation for that purpose amounting to $500,000.

Bulgaria.--Population (1900), 3,733,189. On the death of a Vice-President
  the duties of the office fall to the President pro tempore of
  the Senate, who receives the salary of the Vice-President ($8,000.00.)

California.--Population (1900), 1,485,053.

Call, Dr. Samuel J., thanks of Congress recommended to, 50.

Canada, Dominion of.--Population (1901), 5,369,666.
  Commission, Joint High, progress of, discussed, 67.

Canary Islands.--Population (1902), 334,500.

Cape Verd Islands.--Population (1900), 147,424.

Caroline Islands.--Dispute between Germany and Spain relating to
  domination of, discussed, 67.
  By treaty of February 12, 1899, these islands, with the exception of
  Guam, the largest of the Marianne which had been ceded to the United
  States in 1898, passed on October 1, 1899, from Spain into the hands of
  Germany. The purchase-price paid by Germany was about $4,000,000. They
  consist of about five hundred coral islets which are small and sparsely
  peopled. The most important product and export is copra.

Census, discussed and recommendations regarding, by President--
  McKinley, 86, 151.
  Roosevelt, 350.
  Referred to, 86, 151, 350.

Centennial Anniversary of Founding of Washington as Capital to be
  held in 1900, 46, 101, 153.

Central America, Greater Republic of, establishment of, discussed, 58.

Chile.--Population (1901), 3,128,095.
  Boundary question with Argentine Republic, 60.
  Commission to settle claims of U.S. against, discussed, 63.

China.--Area of China proper 1,353,350 square miles;
  with dependencies 4,234,910 square miles;
  population 348,000,000;
  of the whole Empire about 399,680,000.
  American citizens in, protection for, discussed, 63.
  Boxer uprising in, discussed, 114, 352.
  Commercial relations with, 63.
  Commission to study conditions in, recommended, 63.
  Conditions in, discussed, 64.
  Disturbances in, discussed, 115, 352.
  Subjects of, in United States, outrages committed on, discussed, 116.
  Troops sent to protect, 116.
  War with Japan; action taken by U.S. regarding, 114.

Citizens of United States:
  Interference with rights of naturalized citizens of Australia, 122.
  Property of, protected in South Africa, 68.

Civil Service, discussed by President--
  McKinley, 12, 37, 102, 152.
  Roosevelt, 347, 403.

Colombia.--Population (1900), about 4,500,000.
  Civil war in, discussed, and action of U.S. regarding, 61, 123.
  Claims of United States against, 61.

Colorado.--Population (1900), 539,700.

Commerce:
  Active co-operation of commerce serves in promoting foreign
    commerce, 157.
  Consular reports, 53, 78, 133, 157.
  Discussed by President--
    McKinley, 12, 56, 78, 132, 133.
    Roosevelt, 319.
  Ecuador, 132.
  Extension of, with foreign powers, referred to, 29.
  Merchant Marine, discussed by President--
    McKinley, 56.
    Roosevelt, 327.
  Nicaragua, 132.
  Reciprocal trade relations with foreign countries, commission for, 29.
  Santo Domingo, 132.
  Trusts discussed, 11, 57, 319.
  With foreign powers, China, 64.

Commerce with Foreign Powers:
  Consular regulations, 407.
  Consular reports on trade and industries,
    referred to, 53, 78, 133, 157, 347.

Concord, The, mentioned, 111.

Congress.--Extraordinary session of, convened by proclamation
    of President McKinley, 167.
  Referred to, 15.

Connecticut.--Population (1900), 908,420.

Consular Reports, on trade and industries of foreign powers,
  referred to, 157, 347.

Consuls of the United States, active co-operation in
    commerce, 157, 347.
  May not act in a fiduciary capacity, 404.
  Reports of consular agents, referred to, 19, 42, 53, 157, 347.

Contagious Diseases:
  Discussed, 271, 278.

Costa Rica.--Population (1899), 310,000.
  Boundary question with Nicaragua, arbitration of award of,
    discussed, 124.

Courts, Consular, regulations for, 264.

Creek Indians:
  Treaty with, discussed, 399.
  Ratified by proclamation, 399.

Crozler, Captain William, Peace Commissioner at The Hague, 80.

Cuba.--Area 35,994 square miles;
  population in 1899 by census, 1,572,797.

  In 1901 by act of Congress, autonomous government was granted to take
  effect in May of that year. It was relinquished by Spain preliminary
  to negotiations at Paris, December 10, 1898, and was advanced to the
  position of an independent state. The armed interposition of the United
  States in its struggle for freedom had the effect of bringing the
  island into close communication with the United States government.
  A convention met November 5, 1900, to decide upon a constitution and
  this was adopted February 21, 1901, according to which the form of
  government of the island is Republican, with a President, Señor Estrada
  Palma, Vice-President, Senor Estevez, a Senate, and a House of
  Representatives. It was upon the adoption of this constitution that the
  United States decided to pass over the government to the Island of Cuba
  as soon as the government of that island should agree that it would
  make no treaty with any foreign power which would endanger its
  independence; to contract no debt greater than the current revenue
  would suffice to pay; to grant the United States the right of
  intervention, and also to give it the right to use its naval stations.
  These conditions were accepted by Cuba June 12, 1901, and the President
  and Vice-President of the Republic of Cuba were formally elected
  February 24, 1902. There are at the present writing some slight
  evidences of dissatisfaction with the present administration, but they
  are of the ordinary political nature.

  Census ordered, 290.
  Constitutional Convention assembled, 145
  Creation of offices in, 263, 265.

D.

Dahlberg, Gustav Isak, recommendation for indemnity to, 154.

Dakota.--North and South Dakota created into a separate Internal
  Revenue District, 282.

Daws Commission, discussed, 35, 86.

Day, William R., Secretary of State, 170.

Debt, Public.--On July 1, 1901, the public debt of the United
  States amounted to $2,143,326,933.89.

Defenses, Public, discussed by President McKinley, 146.

Delagoa Bay Railway, claims regarding, submitted to
  arbitration, 130.

Delaware.--Population (1900), 184,735.

Denmark.--Population (1901), 2,464,770.

Detroit, The, mentioned, 62.

Distilled Spirits, sale of, in Manila, information concerning,
  transmitted, 110.

District of Columbia.--Population (1900), 278,718.
  National celebration of the Centennial Anniversary of the transfer of
    seat of Government to, 46, 101, 152.

E.

Ecuador.--Population (1900), 1,270,000.

Egypt.--Population, 9,734,000.

Elections, Constitutional Convention in Cuba, appointed, 145.
  Not to be held in Hawaii, 264.

Europe.--Population (1900) about 380,000,000.

Executive Departments:
  Appointments and promotions in, order regarding promotions to be given
    veterans in, 403.
  Canvassing for outside support for promotions forbidden, 403.
  Employees in, order permitting to participate in public exercises,
    264, 269, 285, 406.

Expansion, Territorial, foreign policy discussed by President
  McKinley, 19, 31.

Expenditures, Public.--For the year ending June 30, 1899,
    they had increased to $605,072,180.
  Congress warned about, 9.

Experiment Stations:
  Discussed, 46.

Exports.--In 1901 the value of exports in the United States was
  $1,460,462,806 exclusive of gold and silver.

Extraordinary Session of Congress, proclamation convening, 167.

F.

Falkland Islands.--Population (1901), 2,043.

Faure, President, death of, referred to, 64.

Fiji or Feejee Islands.--Population (1901), 117,810.

Finances, discussed by President--
  McKinley, 7, 13. 15, 135, 162.
  Roosevelt, 319.

Five Civilized Tribes, discussed, 33.

Florida.--Population (1900), 528,542.

Foreign Coins.--Value of Alphonsino and Louis fixed by order, 290.

Foreign Import Duties, modifications of tariff laws discussed, 10.

Foreign Policy of the United States, discussed, 12, 19, 51.

Forestry System, inauguration of, discussed, 87.

France.--Population (1901), 38,641,333, and of her colonial
    possessions about 51,000,000.
  Faure, President, death of, referred to by President McKinley, 64.
  Wines, duty on, imported into United States modified by reciprocal
    trade relations, proclamation concerning, 172.

Free-Delivery System extended to rural districts, 148.

French Exhibits and Relations at the World's Fair, Chicago, in
  1893, a reason for the United States participating largely at Paris, 39.

Fugitive Criminals, convention regarding, with Peru, 131.

Fuller, Melville W., member of Board of Arbitration, 129.

G.

Geographic Names, Board on, report of, 159.

Georgia.--Population (1900), 2,216,331.

Germany.--Population (1900), 36,345,014.
  Dispute with Spain regarding Caroline Islands, 67.
  Importation of American products into, discussed, 126.

Great Britain.--Population (1901), 41,605,323;
  area of the British Empire, including colonies, protectorates, etc.,
    10,161,483 sq. miles, and the population in 1901 400,000,000.
  Boundary dispute of, with Venezuela regarding British Guiana, 77.
  Commerce of the United States, restrictions placed upon by, during
    South African war, 126.

Great Britain--Continued.
  Commercial reciprocal convention concluded with, on behalf of
    colonies, 78.
  Commissioners award in the claims of the United States against, 39.
  Interference with cargoes in neutral bottoms during Boer war by, 126.
  Minister of United States in Pretoria protects British and other
    interests in South Africa, 68.
  Vessels of United States restricted in South Africa, 126.

Greece.--Population (1894), 1,210,625.

H.

Hawaiian Islands.--In accordance with resolution of Congress of
  July 7, 1898, these islands were formally annexed to the United States
    August 12, 1898. The islands were ceded as the Territory of Hawaii on
    June 14, 1900. By the act of April 30, 1900, all persons who were on
    August 12, 1898, citizens of the Republic of Hawaii were declared to
    be citizens of the United States and of the Territory of Hawaii. The
    territorial franchise is granted to residents in the territory for a
    year, registration in the district, and ability to read and write the
    English or Hawaiian language. As a military district the islands have
    been attached to the Department of California.
  Annexation of, to United States, 96.
  Cable connection with, recommended, 146.
  Discussed by President McKinley, 96, 150.

Hay, John. Secretary of State, 182.
  Authorized to confer with Great Britain and Germany concerning
    Samoa, 270.

Honduras.--Population (1900), 587,500.

I.

Idaho.--Population (1900), 161,772.

Illinois.--Population (1900), 4,821,550.

Immigration discussed by President McKinley, 11.

Inaugural Addresses of President--
  McKinley, 7, 162.
  Roosevelt, 314,

India.--Area, 1,559,603 square miles;
  population (1901), 294,266,701.

Indian Appropriation Bill.--Necessity of passing, discussed, 35.

Indian Territory.--Population (1900), 302,060.

Indiana.--Population (1900), 2,416,462.

Indians:
  Action recommended to enable the Iroquois, Delawares, and Abenaki
    in Canada to attend exposition held at Omaha, 45.
  Act to refer claims for depredations by, to Court of Claims, veto, 159.
  Instructions to commissioners engaged with, in Indian Territory, 34.
  Treaty with, ratified by proclamation, 40.
  Five civilized tribes discussed, 33.

Internal Revenue.--During the recent war with Spain there was
  collected in 1901 from the taxes imposed for war purposes $306,871,669.

Iowa.--Population (1900), 2,231,853.

Italy.--Population (1901), 32,450,000.
  Indemnity paid by United States for subjects of, lynched, 156, 158.

J.

Japan.--Commercial relations with, 70, 128.
  Questions with, settled, 27.
  Relations with, 68.

K.

Kansas.--Population (1900), 1,470,495.

Kentucky.--Population (1900), 2,147,174.

Kongo Free State.--Population (1901), about 30,000,000.

Korea or Corea.--Population estimated from eight to
  sixteen millions.

L.

La Abra Silver Mining Company, claim of against Mexico, 129.

Labor, principal of arbitration in, referred to, 46.

Labor, Hours of:
  Referred to, 46, 152.

Laborers, Alien:
  Discussed, 46, 152.

Lands, Public:
  Discussed, 87, 149.
  Disposition of, discussed by President McKinley, 149.
  Opened to settlement, proclaimed, 178, 196, 215, 237, 243, 261, 274,
    277, 286, 289, 290, 371, 382, 384.
  Sale of, discussed by President McKinley, 149.
  Set apart as public reservation by proclamation of President--
    McKinley, 169, 171, 175, 179, 185, 187, 189, 190, 194, 195, 204,
      206, 209, 213, 226, 227, 236, 237, 239, 247, 256.
    Roosevelt, 360, 361, 364, 367, 369, 374, 375, 377, 383, 385, 390,
      392, 398, 397, 400, 401, 402, 403.

Lawshe, Abraham L.--Report of and investigation into expenditure
    of Cuban funds, 155.

Liberia.--The total population in 1902 was 1,500,000, mostly natives.

Library of Congress, referred to, 37.

Life Insurance Companies, American.--Exclusion of, from transacting
     business in Germany, 67, 125.
  Referred to, 37.

Loans, discussed, 9.

Louisiana.--Population (1900) was 1,381,625.
  Lynching in, referred to, 19.
  Sufferers from floods relieved by appropriation, 17.

Low, Seth, Peace Commissioner at The Hague, 80.

Lynchings, discussed, 19, 39, 68, 101, 127, 155, 156, 158.

Lynn Canal, referred to, 126.

M.

McArthur, General, Military Governor of Philippine Islands, 18.

McKinley, William (twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth President of the
    U.S.):
  Advancement and progress of the United States discussed by, 292.
  Agriculture, department of, discussed by, 87.
  Alaska, discussed by, 67, 126.
    Legislation for, recommended by, 32, 97.
  Alien Contract Law, amendment of, recommended by, 46, 152.
  American Republics, Bureau of, discussed by, 47, 78, 133.
  Annual message of, 22, 53, 113.
  Arbitration, discussed by, 13, 30, 77, 129.
  Army, discussed by, 82, 146.
  Bering Sea Fisheries, discussed by, 29, 72.
  Biographical sketch of, 5.
  Buffalo, Pan-American Exposition at, discussed by, 79, 133.
  Census, discussed by, 86, 151.
  China, Boxer uprising in, discussed by, 114.
  Civil Service discussed by, 12, 37, 102, 152.
  Commerce, discussed by, 12, 56, 78, 133, 157.
  Cuban insurrection and policy of the United States regarding, discussed
    by, 19, 41.
  Death of--
    Action of Congress on, 309.
    Announcement of, to Vice-President and reply to, 298.
      To Representatives abroad, 298.
      To the Army, 299.
      To the Navy, 301.
      To the Treasury, 303.
    Certificate of the coroner, 304.
    House Committee named, 309.
    News at the White House, 297.
    Official order of observances, 304.
    Official order of the Army, 300.
    Order of procession, 306.
    Orders to the Army, 303.
      To the Guard of Honor, 307.
      To the Navy, 308.
    Proclamation of, by President Roosevelt, 358.
  Dewey appointed acting Rear-Admiral by, 258.
  Executive orders of, 258.
  Extraordinary session of Congress, 167.
    Senate, 234.
  Extraordinary session of Congress by proclamation of, 167.
  Finances discussed by, 7, 13, 15, 23, 54, 134, 162.
  Foreign policy discussed by, 12, 19, 41.
  Germany, relations with, discussed by, 66, 126.
  Government for Philippine Islands discussed by, 88, 92, 138.
  Harrison, Hon. Benjamin, death of, 235.
  Hawaiian Cable concession, 183.
  Hawaiian Islands, annexation of, discussed by, 26, 96.
    Affairs in, discussed by, 96, 150.
    Cable communication with, discussed by, 52, 126.
  Hobart, Garret P., death of, referred to by, 53.
  Immigration, discussed by, 11.
  Italy, recommendations regarding lynching of subjects of, made by, 68,
    127, 156, 158.
  Japan, Commercial relations with, discussed by, 70, 128.
    Questions with, discussed by, 27.
  Kansas Pacific Railway, claims against, dismissed by, 35.
  Labor, hours of, discussed by, 46, 152.
  Lands, Public--
    Set apart as public reservation, 169, 170, 174, 182, 185, 187, 189,
      190, 194, 195, 206, 209, 213, 226, 231, 236, 239, 241, 251, 256.
    Opened for settlement, 178, 196, 215, 237, 243.
    Opened for settlement by proclamation of, 178, 190, 215, 237, 243.
    Revenue derived from, discussed by, 149.
  Last speech of, 292.
  Loans, discussed by, 9.
  Louisiana Purchase Exposition, 257.
  Lynchings, discussed by, 19, 40, 68, 101, 127, 155, 158.
  Manila, cable communication with, discussed by, 46, 70, 136.
  Marshall Day, referred to, 153.
  Mexico, treaty with, discussed by, 71.
  Monetary Commission, discussed by, 21.
  Modification of tariff laws, discussed by, 10.
  Mosquito Indian strip, insurrection in and treatment of American
    citizens, discussed by, 62, 130.
  Navy discussed by, 31, 84, 137, 148.
    Vessels for, construction of discussed and commendations regarding,
      by, 31.
  Nicaragua Canal, discussed by, 28, 63, 130.
  Nicaragua, relations with, discussed by, 27.
    Revolution in, discussed by, 129.
  Ocean cables with Philippines, 46.
  Ozama River bridge claims, referred to, 124.
  Pacific Railway Claims, discussed by, 35, 86.
  Pan-American Exposition at Buffalo, discussed by, 79, 133.
  Paris, France, Universal Exposition at, discussed by, 18, 30, 38, 45, 65,
    108, 113, 124, 152, 154, 158.
  Patent Office, discussed by, 85, 150.
    At The Hague, discussed by, 80, 129.
  Pennsylvania, riots at Lattimer, discussed by, 85, 149.
  Peru, affairs in, discussed by, 129.
  Philippine Islands, affairs in, discussed by, 138.
    Government for, discussed by, 88, 92, 138.
  Postal service, discussed by, 83, 148.
  Proclamations of--
    Cessation of Tariff, Puerto Rico, 254.
    Copyright--
      Netherlands, 212.
      Costa Rica, 205.
  Puerto Rico, legislation for, suggested by, 99, 144.
    Relief for, discussed by, 100.
    Expeditions against, discussed by, 99, 144.
  Questions with Japan, discussed by, 27.
  Reciprocal Commercial Agreement, France, 172.
    Germany, 228.
    Italy, 229.
  Revocation of suspension of port dues, Tobago, 192.
    Trinidad, 193.
  Samoan Islands, affairs of, and policy of United States
    concerning, discussed by, 72, 125, 132.
  Sherman, Hon. John, death of, 233.
  Southern Ute Indians, Colorado, 196.
  Suspension of tonnage dues, Mexico, 168, 186.
    Denmark, 177.
  Thanksgiving, 167, 182, 208, 234.
  The assassination of, 296.
  Transfer of, to United States referred to by, 27.
  Trusts, discussed by, 11, 57.
  Veto messages of--
    Navajo, 108.
  Water boundary commission discussed by, 71, 129.

Macrum, Charles E., Consul at Durban concerning mail of, 104.

Mahan, Alfred T., Peace Commissioner at The Hague, 80.

Maine.--Population in 1900 was 694,466.

Manila, Philippine Islands:
  Cable communication with, recommended, 46, 70, 146.
  Liquor at, sale of, 110.

Marshall Day, referred to, 153.

Maryland.--Population in 1900 was 1,188,044.

Massachusetts.--Population in 1900 was 2,605,346.

Mexico.--Population in 1901 was 12,100,000.
  Claims of Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Co. against, 129.
  Convention with, 40.
  Fugitive criminals convention with, for surrender of, 71.
  Lynching of subjects at Yreka, indemnity recommended, 40.
  Relations with, 71.
  Treaty regarding Water boundary commission discussed, 71, 129.
  Treaty with, discussed by President McKinley, 71.

Michigan.--The population in 1900 was 2,420,982.

Minnesota.--The population in 1900 was 1,751,394.

Mississippi.--The population in 1900 was 1,551,270.
  Appropriation recommended for sufferers by flood in, 17.

Missouri.--Population in 1900 was 3,106,665.

Monetary Commission, discussed, 21.

Montana.--The population in 1900 was 243,329.

Morgan City, The, mentioned, 71.

Mosquito Indian Strip, insurrection in, discussed, 62, 130.

N.

Naturalization Laws, discussed, 11.

Naturalized Citizens impressed into military service of foreign
  countries, 122.

Navajo Indians, veto message concerning, 110.

Navy, discussed by President McKinley, 84, 137, 148.

Nebraska.--Population in 1900 was 1,066,300.

Nevada.--Population in 1900 was 42,335.

Newark, The, mentioned, 63.

Newel, Stanford, Peace Commissioner at The Hague, 80.

New Hampshire.--Population in 1900 was 411,588.

New Jersey.--Population in 1900 was 1,663,669.

New Mexico.--Population in 1900 was 195,310.

New York.--Population in 1900 was 7,268,894.

Nicaragua, boundary line with Costa Rica, arbitration of,
    referred to President of United States and award of, discussed, 124.
  Diplomatic relations with, 27.
  Revolution in, discussed, 129.
  Rupture with Costa Rica amicably settled, 123.

Nicaragua Canal, discussed, 28, 63, 130.

Nicaragua Canal Commission, discussed, 63.

North Carolina.--Population in 1900 was 1,893,810.

North Dakota.--Population in 1900 was 319,146.

Norway.--Population in 1900 was about 2,000,000.

O.

Ohio.--Population in 1900 was 4,157,545.

Oklahoma.--Population in 1900 was 398,331.

Otis, Elwell S., communications with Aguinaldo, 111.
  Proclamation to Philippines issued by, 104.

Ozama River, building bridge over, at Santo Domingo City
  by American citizens, 124.

P.

Pacific Railroads, indebtedness of, commission to settle, 86.
  Kansas Pacific, sale of, discussed, 87.
  Union Pacific, sale of, discussed, 56.

Peace Congress at The Hague, 80, 129.

Pennsylvania.--Population in 1900 was 6,302,115.
  Conflict at Lattimer, claims of Austria-Hungary regarding subjects
    killed in, 60.

Pensions discussed, 85, 149.

Philadelphia, commercial museum at, 80.

Philippine Islands:
  Affairs in, discussed by President--
    McKinley, 138.
    Roosevelt, 335.
  Aid to loyal natives in, 336.
  Civil Service extended to, 348.
  Commission made the superior authority in, 394.
  General Chaffee relieved of civil duties in, 394.
  Government for, discussed by President--
    McKinley, 88, 92, 138.
    Roosevelt, 335.
  Granting of franchise in, to be encouraged, 337.
  Independence to, danger of, 336.
  Pardon and amnesty to insurgents in, 351.
  Thanks to army in, 395.

Plague, The, regulations to prevent introduction of,
  into United States, 129.

Portugal, claims of United States against, 130.

Postal Service discussed, 83, 148.

Puerto Rico:
  Expeditions against, 99, 144.
  Legislation for, 99, 144.
  Relief for, 100.

Q.

Quarantine Regulations discussed, 35.

R.

Rhode Island.--Population in 1900 was 428,556.

Russia.--Claims of United States against, 72.

Roosevelt, Theodore (twenty-seventh President of the United
    States):
  Agriculture discussed by, 329.
  Anarchy discussed by, 317.
  Annual message of, 315.
  Army discussed by, 343.
    Eulogy on, by, 395.
    Improvement of, suggested by, 344.
    Veterans praised by, 346.
    West Point referred to by, 328.
  Banks and Banking discussed by, 328.
  Biographical sketch of, 313.
  Cable communication with Hawaii and the Philippine Islands, 337.
  Census discussed by, 350.
  Charleston Exposition referred to, 349.
  China--
    "Open door" discussed by, 353.
    Uprising in, discussed by, 352.
  Civil Service discussed by, 347.
    Extension of the, to the Philippine Islands and Cuba, 348.
    Officers and employees forbidden to seek outside influence
      in promotion, 404.
    Veterans to have the preference in appointment and promotions, 403.
  Clayton-Bulwer Treaty referred to by, 338.
  Commerce discussed by, 319.
  Consular Corps--
    In relation to commerce, 347.
    Members of, forbidden to act in a fiduciary capacity for others, 404.
    Permitted to issue passports in the Insular possessions of
      the United States, 407.
  Creeks, treaty with, ratified by proclamation, 399.
  Cuba--
    Fair treatment accorded to, by the United States, referred to, 357.
    Reciprocal exemption of vessels from tonnage dues proclaimed, 392.
    Reciprocal reduction in tariff recommended by, 334.
    Reciprocity with, urged by, 356.
  Death of President McKinley--
    Announcement of and reply to by, 298.
    Proclaimed by, 358.
    Referred to by, 315.
  Department of Agriculture discussed by, 330.
  Eulogy of the Army of the United States by, 395.
  Executive orders of, 401.
  Expenditure discussed by, 328.
  Filipino Insurgents, pardon and amnesty declared by, 392.
  Forest reserves discussed by, 329.
  Germany--
    Death of Empress Dowager Frederick referred to, 354.
    Sympathy with the United States on the death of McKinley, 354.
  Glass, John, act for relief of, vetoed by, 354.
  Government employees, permission given to participate in
     public exercises, 406.
  Great Britain, negotiations with, on Nicaraguan Canal referred to, 338.
  Hawaii--
    Affairs of, discussed by, 334.
    Cable Communication with, discussed by, 337.
  Henry, Prince of Prussia, committee on reception and entertainment
      of, appointed by, 504.
  Immigration--
    Discussed by, 333.
    Laws should be amended, 325.
  Inaugural address by, as Vice-President, 314.
  Indians--
    Affairs of, discussed by, 348.
    Necessity of education of, 348.
  Interstate Commerce Law discussed by, 324, 328.
  Isthmian Canal discussed by, 337.
  Irrigation discussed by, 331.
  La Abra Claims referred to, 353.
  Labor discussed by, 323.
  Lands, arid, discussed by, 332.
  Lands, public--
    Discussed by, 331.
    In Puerto Rico, legislation for, recommended, 334.
    Opened to settlement by, 371, 382, 384.
  Library of Congress referred to, 350.
  Louisiana Purchase Exposition, duration of, fixed by proclamation, 389.
  McKinley, death of--
    Proclaimed, 358.
    Referred to, 315.
  Martinique, recommending appropriation for the relief of sufferers
    in, 355.
  Merchant Marine discussed by, 327.
  Monroe doctrine referred to, 338.
  Morton, J. Sterling, mark of respect to be paid on the death of, 405.
  Naval Reserve, national, suggested by, 343.
  Navy--
    Discussed by, 339.
    Rating and pay of petty officers and men established in the, 401,
      403, 408.
    Regulating discharge from, 407.
    Retirement of men in, order regarding, 408.
  Oath of office administered to, 298, 314.
  Pardon and amnesty to Philippine insurgents proclaimed, 392.
  Pan-American Exposition referred to, 349.
  Pauncefote, Right Honorable Lord, mark of respect to be
      paid on death of, 405.
  Peace conference at The Hague, referred to, 338.
  Postal Service discussed by, 351.
  Philippine Islands--
    Affairs in, discussed by, 335.
    Gen. Chaffee relieved of his civil duties in, 394.
    Government in, discussed by, 335.
    Granting of franchise in to be encouraged, 337.
    Independence to, danger of granting, 336.
    Pardon and amnesty to insurgents in, proclaimed, 351.
  Proclamations of--
    Cuban reciprocity in exemption of vessels from tonnage dues, 302.
    Day of mourning and prayer proclaimed, 358.
    Death of President McKinley, 358.
    Eulogy on the Army of the United States, 395.
    Louisiana Purchase Exposition, time for holding, fixed, 389.
    Pardon and amnesty to the insurgents in the Philippine Islands, 392.
    Puerto Rico legislation for public lands, 334.
    Ratifying treaty with the Creeks, 399.
    Thanksgiving, 359.
  Railways referred to, 329.
  Reciprocity discussed by, 326.
  Secretary of Commerce and Industries, appointment of, recommended, 323.
  Sharretts, Thaddeus S., commissioned to effect changes in foreign
    duties, 401.
  Shipping discussed by, 327.
  Smithsonian Institution referred to, 350.
  Tariff system discussed by, 326.
  Thanksgiving proclamation, 359.
  Thanks of, to the Army in Cuba and the Philippines, 395.
  Treaty with the Creeks ratified by, 399.
  Trusts discussed by, 319.
  Veto message for the relief of John Glass, 354.
  Victoria, Queen of Great Britain, death of referred to, 354.

S.

Samoan Islands, affairs of discussed, 72, 125, 132.
  Government of discussed, 62.
  Insurrection in discussed, 72, 124.
  King of, death of, 72.

Santo Domingo, claim of United States against, 124.
  Revolution in, referred to, 124.
  War in, discussed, 62.

South Carolina.--Population in 1900 was 1,340,316.

South Dakota.--Population in 1900 was 401,570.

Specie Payments discussed, 24.

Sulu, Sultan of, treaty with, 105.

Sweden and Norway, king of, arbitrator in Samoan affairs, 132.

T.

Taft Commission discussed, 156.

Tellefsen, Captain B., claim of, against United States, 40.

Tennessee.--Population in 1900 was 2,020,616.

Tewkesberry, Samuel, claim of, vetoed, 159.

Texas.--Population in 1900 was 3,048,710.

Thanks of Congress:
  Tender of, recommended to--
    Bertholf, Ellsworth P., 50.
    Call, Dr. Samuel J., 50.
    Jarvis, David H., 50.
    Tuttle, Captain Francis, 50.

Tice, Isaac P., administrators of, act for relief of, vetoed, 41.

Trade-Marks, treaty regarding, with Belgium, 122.

Trusts, evils of monopolies discussed, recommendations
  regarding, 11, 57.

Turkey.--American citizens, injuries inflicted upon in, 76.
  Armenian subjects of, referred to, 132.
  Commercial relations with, 76, 132.
  Naturalization, treaty with, discussed, 76.

Tuttle, Captain Francis, thanks of Congress to, recommended, 50.

U.

United States.--The total population in 1900 was 76,303,387.

Utah.--Population in 1900 was 276,749.

V.

Venezuela.--Boundary dispute with Great Britain regarding British
    Guiana, arbitration of, discussed, 77.
  Claims of United States against, payment of, 41.
  Revolution in, discussed, 77.

Vice-Presidents of United States.--Five Vice-Presidents have
  succeeded to the Presidency by reason of the death of the President;
  viz: John Tyler, who succeeded William Henry Harrison in 1841; Millard
  Fillmore, who succeeded Zachary Taylor in 1850; Andrew Johnson, who
  succeeded Abraham Lincoln in 1865; Chester A. Arthur, who succeeded
  James A. Garfield in 1881, and Theodore Roosevelt, who succeeded
  William McKinley in 1901.

Virginia.--Population in 1900 was 1,854,184.

W.

Walker, John G.--Chairman of Nicaraguan Canal Commission, 63.

Washington.--Population in 1900 was 518,103.

Washington, George.--Centennial anniversary of death of,
  December 14, 1899, referred to by President McKinley, 103.

Washington City.--Centennial anniversary of founding of,
    for capital, held in 1900, discussed, 101, 153.
  Memorial Bridge across the Potomac, appropriation recommended for, 101.

Whaling fleet relieved by "Bear" under Captain Francis Tuttle, 48.

White, Andrew D., Peace commissioner at the Hague, 80.

Wisconsin.--Population in 1900 was 2,069,042.

Worcester, Dean C., member of Commission, Philippine Islands, 90.

Wyoming.--Population in 1900 was 92,531.

