THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 13, NO. 371.] SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FORTUNE PLAYHOUSE.

The Engraving represents one of the playhouses of Shakspeare's time, as the premises appeared
a few years since. This theatre was in Golden Lane, Barbican, and was built by that celebrated
and benevolent actor Edward Alleyn, the pious founder of Dulwich College, in 1599. It was burnt
in 1624, but rebuilt in 1629. A story is told of a large treasure being found in digging for
the foundation, and it is probable that the whole sum fell to Alleyn. Upon equal probability,
is the derivation of the name "The Fortune." The theatre was a spacious brick building, and
exhibited the royal arms in plaster on its front. These are retained in the Engraving; where
the disposal of the lower part on the building into shops, &c. is a sorry picture of the "base
purposes" to which a temple of the Drama has been converted.

According to the testimony of Ben Jonson and others, Alleyn was the first actor of his time,
and of course played leading characters in the plays of Shakspeare and Jonson. He was probably
the Kemble of his day, for his biographers tell us such was his celebrity, that he drew crowds
of spectators after him wherever he performed; so that possessing some private patrimony, with
a careful and provident disposition, he soon became master of an establishment of his own--and
this was the Fortune. Although Alleyn left behind him a large sum, it is hardly probable that
he made it here; for in his diary, which, we believe is extant, he records that he once had
so slender an audience, that the whole receipts of the house amounted to no more than three
pounds and a few odd shillings--a sum which would not pay the expenses; for it appears by the
MS. of Lord Stanhope, treasurer to James I. that the customary sum paid for the performance
of a play at court, was 20 nobles, or 6l. 12s. 4d.[1] Alleyn was likewise proprietor of the
Blackfriars' Theatre, near what is still called Playhouse Yard. However he might have gathered
laurels on the stage, he must have gained his fortune by other means. He was keeper of the
King's Bear Garden and Menagerie, which were frequented by thousands, and produced Alleyn,
the then great sum of 500l. per annum. He was also thrice married, and received portions with
his two first wives; and we need not insist upon the turn which matrimony gives to a man's fortune.

    [1] The nightly expenses of Drury Lane and Covent Garden Theatres
        in these days, are upwards of 200l.

Among the theatrico-antiquarian gossip of The Fortune is, that it was once the nursery for
Henry VIII.'s children--but "no scandal about the"--we hope.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

       *       *       *       *       *

EXHIBITION OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY.

All men are critics, in a greater or less degree. They can generalize upon the merits and defects
of a picture, although they cannot point out the details of the defects, or in what the beauty
of a picture consists; and to prove this, only let the reader visit the Exhibition at Somerset
House, and watch the little critical coteries that collect round the most attractive paintings.
Could all these criticisms be embodied, but in "terms of art," what a fine lecture would they
make for the Royal Academy.

Our discursive notice would, probably, contribute but little to this joint-stock production;
but as even comparing notes is not always unprofitable, we venture to give our own.

The present Exhibition is much superior to that of last year. There are more works of imagination,
and consequently greater attractions for the lover of painting; for life-breathing as have
been many of the portraits in recent exhibitions, the interest which they created was of quite
a different nature to that which we take in not a few of the pictures of the present collection.
Portraits still superabound, and finely painted portraits too; but, strange to say, there are
fewer female portraits in the present than in any recent exhibition.

But the elite are seven pictures by Mr. Wilkie, who has reappeared, as it were, in British
art, after an absence from England; during which he appears to have studied manners and costume
with beautiful effect; and the paintings to which we allude, are triumphant proofs of his success.
They are embodiments or realizations of character, manners, and scenery, with which the painter
has been wont to mix, and thus to transfer them to his canvass with vividness and fidelity--merits
of the highest order in all successes of art. We shall touch upon these pictures in our ramble
through the rooms--

4. Subject from the Revelations.--F. Danby--A sublime composition.

10. The Fountain: morning.--A.W. Callcott. A delightful picture.

14. Rubens and the Philosopher.--G. Clint. The anecdote of Rubens and Brondel, the alchemist,
remarkably well told.

16. Benaiah.--W. Etty--The line in 2 Samuel xxiii. 20., "he slew two lion-like men of Moab,"
has furnished Mr. Etty with the subject of this picture. It is a surprising rather than a pleasing
composition; but the strength of colouring is very extraordinary. The disproportions of parts
of the principal figure will, however, be recognised by the most casual beholder: although
as a fine display of muscular energy, this picture is truly valuable, and is a proud specimen
of the powerful genius of the painter.

28. Waterfall near Vatlagunta, in the peninsula of India, in the mountains that divide the
Coasts of Coromandel and Malabar: its height between 500 and 600 feet.--W. Daniell.--The sublime
and stupendous character of the scenery will enable the reader to form some idea of the difficulty
with which the artist had to contend.

43. The Lady in St. Swithin's Chair from vol. i. Waverley.--Sir W. Beechey.--We confess ourselves
far from pleased with this picture. There is a want of freedom in it which is any thing but
characteristic of the incident which it is intended to portray.

56. The Spanish Posado.--D. Wilkie.--We must describe this picture in the words of the catalogue:--

This represents a Guerrilla council of war, at which three reverend fathers--a Dominican, a
monk of the Escurial, and a Jesuit, are deliberating on some expedient of national defence,
with an emissary in the costume of Valencia. Behind them is the posadera, or landlady, serving
her guests with chocolate, and the begging student of Salamanca, with his lexicon and cigar,
making love to her. On the right of the picture, a contrabandist of Bilboa enters, upon his
mule, and in front of him is an athletic Castilian armed, and a minstrel dwarf, with a Spanish
guitar. On the floor are seated the goatherd and his sister, with the muzzled house-dog and
pet lamb of the family, and through the open portal in the background is a distant view of
the Guadarama mountains--It is next to impossible for us to do justice to the diversified character
of this picture. The deliberation of the fathers, and the little bit of episode between the
landlady and student are extremely interesting.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SPITTLE-FIELDS, AND WEAVING IN FORMER DAYS.

(For the Mirror.)

Stowe says, "On the east side of the churchyard of St. Mary Spittle, lyeth a large field, of
old time called Lolesworth, now Spittle-Field, which about the year 1576, was broken up for
clay to make bricke; in digging thereof many earthen pots called urnae, were found full of
ashes and the bones of men, to wit of the Romans that inhabited here. For it was the custom
of the Romans to burne their dead, to put their ashes in an urne, and then bury the same with
certain ceremonies, in some field appointed for the purpose neere unto their city. Every one
of these pots had in them (with the ashes of the dead) one piece of copper money, with an inscription
of the emperor then reigning. Some of them were of Claudius, some of Vespasian, some of Nero,
&c. There hath also been found (in the same field) divers coffins of stone, containing the
bones of men; these I suppose to be the bones of some speciall persons, in the time of the
Brittons, or Saxons, after that the Romans had left to govern here.

"The priory and hospital of St. Mary Spittle, was founded (says Pennant) in 1197, by Walter
Brune, Sheriff of London, and his wife, Rosia, for canons regular of the order of St. Augustine.
It was remarkable for its pulpit cross, at which a preacher used to preach a sermon consolidated
out of four others, which had been preached at St. Paul's Cross, on Good Friday, and the Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday in Easter week; giving afterwards a sermon of his own. At these sermons
the mayor and aldermen attended, dressed in different coloured robes on each occasion. This
custom continued till the destruction of church government in the civil wars. They have since
been transferred to St. Bride's Church. Queen Elizabeth, in April, 1559, visited St. Mary Spittal,
in great state, probably to hear a sermon delivered from the cross. This princess was attended
by a thousand men in harness with shirts of mail and corslets, and morice pikes, and ten great
pieces carried through London unto the court, with drums and trumpets sounding, and two morice-dancers,
and in a cart two white bears."

The priory of St. Mary, of St. Mary Spittle, contained at its dissolution, about the year 1536,
no less than 180 beds for the reception of sick persons and travellers. Richard Tarleton, the
famous comedian, at the Curtain Theatre, it is said, "kept an ordinary in Spittle-fields, pleasant
fields for the citizens to walk in;" and the row called Paternoster Row, as the name implies,
was formerly a few houses, where they sold rosaries, relics, &c. The once celebrated herbalist
and astrologer, Nicholas Culpepper, was another inhabitant of this spot. He died in 1654, in
a house he had some time occupied, very pleasantly situated in the fields; but now a public
house at the corner of Red Lion Court, Red Lion Street, east of Spittlefields market. The house,
though it has undergone several repairs, still exhibits the appearance of one of those that
formed a part of old London. The weaving art, which has arrived at such an astonishing perfection,
was patronized by the wise and liberal Edward III., who encouraged the art by the most advantageous
offers of reward and encouragement to weavers who would come and settle in England. In 1331,
two weavers came from Brabant and settled at York. The superior skill and dexterity of these
men, who communicated their knowledge to others, soon manifested itself in the improvement
and spread of the art of weaving in this island. Many Flemish weavers were driven from their
native country by the cruel persecutions of the Duke d'Alva, in 1567. They settled in different
parts of England, and introduced and promoted the manufacture of baizes, serges, crapes, &c.
The arts of spinning, throwing, and weaving silk, were brought into England about the middle
of the fifteenth century, and were practised by a company of women in London, called silk women.
About 1480, men began to engage in the silk manufacture, and in the year 1686, nearly 50,000
manufacturers, of various descriptions, took refuge in England, in consequence of the revocation
of the Edict of Nantz, by Louis le Grand, who sent thousands (says Pennant) of the most industrious
of his subjects into this kingdom to present his bitterest enemies with the arts and manufactures
of his kingdom; hence the origin of the silk trade in Spittlefields.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BIRD OF THE TOMB.

BY LEIGH CLIFFE.

(For the Mirror.)

In "Lyon's attempt to reach Repulse Bay," the following passage, which suggested these verses,
may be met with. "Near the large grave was a third pile of stones, covering the body of a child.
A Snow-Buntin (the Red-Breast of the Arctic Regions) had found its way through the loose stones
which composed this little tomb, and its now forsaken, neatly built nest, was found placed
on the neck of the child."

  Beneath the chilly Arctic clime,
  Where Nature reigns severe, sublime,
  Enthron'd upon eternal snows,
  Or rides the waves on icy floes--
  Where fierce tremendous tempests sweep
  The bosom of the rolling deep,
  And beating rain, and drifting hail
  Swell the wild fury of the gale;
  There is a little, humble tomb,
    Not deckt with sculpture's pageant pride,
  Nor labour'd verse to tell by whom
    The habitant was lov'd who died!
  No trophied 'scutcheon marks the grave--
  No blazon'd banners round it wave--
  'Tis but a simple pile of stones
  Rais'd o'er a hapless infant's bones;
  Perchance a mother's tears have dew'd
  This sepulchre, so frail and rude;--
  A father mourn'd in accents wild,
  His offspring lost--his only child--
  Who might, in after years, have spread
  A ray of honour round his head,
  Nor thought, as stone on stone he threw,
  His child would meet a stranger's view.

  But, lo! upon its clay-cold breast,
  The Arctic Robin rais'd its nest,
  And rear'd its little fluttering young,
    Where Death in awful quiet slept,
  And fearless chirp'd, and gaily sung
    Around the babe its parents wept.
  It was the guardian of the grave,
    And thus its chirping seem'd to say:--
  "Tho' naught from Death's chill grasp could save,
    Tho' naught could chase his power away--
  As round this humble spot I wing,
  My thrilling voice shall daily sing
  A requiem o'er the faded flower,
  That bloom'd and wither'd in an hour,
  And prov'd life is, in every view,
  Naught but a rose-bud twin'd with rue.
  A blossom born at day's first light,
  And fading with the earliest night;
  Nor stranger's step, nor shrieking loom,
  Shall scare the warbler from the tomb'"

       *       *       *       *       *

CURING THE "KING'S EVIL."

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

About five miles from Sturminster Newton, and near the village of Hazlebury, resides a Dr.
B----, who has attained a reputation, far extended, for curing, in a miraculous manner, the
king's evil; and as the method he employs is very different from that of most modern practitioners,
a short account of it may, perhaps, be acceptable to the readers of the MIRROR.

I had long known that the doctor used some particular season for his operations, but was unable
to say precisely the time, until a few days since I had a conversation with a person who is
well acquainted with the doctor and his yearly "fair, or feast," as it is termed. Exactly twenty-four
hours before the new moon, in the month of May, every year, whether it happens by night or
by day, the afflicted persons assemble at the doctor's residence, where they are supplied,
by him, with the hind legs of a toad! yes, gentle reader a toad--don't start--enclosed in a
small bag (accompanied, I believe, with some verbal charm, or incantation,) and also a lotion
and salve of the doctor's preparation. The bag containing the legs of the reptile is worn suspended
from the neck of the patient, and the lotion and salve applied in the usual manner, until the
cure is completed, or until the next year's "fair."

One would think that such a mysterious routine of doctoring, would attract but few, and those
the most illiterate; but I can assure my readers the case is different. The number of carts,
chaises, and other conveyances laden with the afflicted which passed through this place on
the 2nd instant, bore ample testimony to the number of the doctor's applicants; and the appearance
of many of them corroborated the opinion that they moved in a respectable sphere of life.

The new moon happening this year on the 3rd instant, at 57 minutes past 7 o'clock in the morning,
the "fair" took place at the same hour the preceding day.

My readers, no doubt, have heard of the efficacy of the stone in the toad's head, alluded to
by Shakspeare,[2] for curing the cramp, &c. by application to the afflicted part; but it was
left for Dr. B---- to discover the virtues of a toad's leg. Apropos, an eccentric friend of
mine, once gravely told me he intended to procure this precious Bufonian jewel; and as probably
some reader may feel a wish to possess it, I will furnish him with the proper method of obtaining
it, as communicated by my scientific friend. Voici--Cut off poor bufo's head and enclose it
in a small box pierced with many holes; place it in an ant hill, and let it remain some ten
or twelve days, in which time, or a little longer, the ants will have entered and eaten up
every part except the stone. RURIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE MORNING STAR."

(For the Mirror.)

  Queen of celestial beauty! Morning Star!
    Accept a humble bard's untut'red lay;
  To him, thy loveliness, surpasseth far
    The silv'ry moon, and eke the God of day.
  The world with all its pride cannot display
    A form so fair, so beautiful as thine;
  Its glories fade, its proudest beauties die;
    But you fair star! as first created shine,
  In never fading immortality!
  Like vice, from virtue's glance, yon clouds retire,
    Before the smile of one benignant ray,
  Sleepless and sad, my soul would fain aspire,
  Promethean like, to snatch ethereal fire,
    And draw relief from thee! bright harbinger of day!

JNO. JONES.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK

       *       *       *       *       *

SCHINDERHANNES, THE GERMAN ROBBER.

At the commencement of the French Revolution, and for some time after, the two banks of the
Rhine were the theatre of continual wars. Commerce was interrupted, industry destroyed, the
fields ravaged, and the barns and cottages plundered; farmers and merchants became bankrupts,
and journeymen and labourers thieves. Robbery was the only mechanical art which was worth pursuing,
and the only exercises followed were assault and battery. These enterprises were carried on
at first by individuals trading on their own capital of skill and courage; but when the French
laws came into more active operation in the seat of their exploits, the desperadoes formed
themselves, for mutual protection, into copartnerships, which were the terror of the country.
Men soon arose among them whose talents, or prowess, attracted the confidence of their comrades,
and chiefs were elected, and laws and institutions established. Different places of settlement
were chosen by different societies; the famous Pickard carried his band into Belgium and Holland;
while on the confines of Germany, where the wild provinces of Kirn, Simmerm, and Birkenfield
offered a congenial field, the banditti were concentrated, whose last and most celebrated chief,
the redoubted Schinderhannes, is the subject of this brief notice.

His predecessors, indeed, Finck, Peter the Black, Zughetto, and Seibert were long before renowned
among those who square their conduct by the good old rule of clubs; they were brave men, and
stout and pitiless robbers. But Schinderhannes, the boldest of the bold, young, active and
subtle, converted the obscure exploits of banditti into the comparatively magnificent ravages
of "the outlaw and his men;" and sometimes marched at the head of sixty or eighty of his troop
to the attack of whole villages. Devoted to pleasure, no fear ever crossed him in its pursuit;
he walked publicly with his mistress, a beautiful girl of nineteen, in the very place which
the evening before had been the scene of one of his criminal exploits; he frequented the fairs
and taverns, which were crowded with his victims; and such was the terror he had inspired,
that these audacious exposures were made with perfect impunity. Free, generous, handsome, and
jovial, it may even be conceived that sometime he gained the protection from love which could
not have been extorted by force.

It is scarcely a wonder that with the admirable regulations of the robbers, they should have
succeeded even to so great an extent as they did in that unsettled country. Not more than two
or three of them were allowed to reside in the same town or village; they were scattered over
the whole face of the district, and apparently connected with each other only by some mysterious
free-masonry of their craft. When a blow was to be struck, a messenger was sent round by the
chief to warn his followers; and at the mustering place the united band rose up, like the clan
of Roderick Dhu from the heather, to disappear as suddenly again in darkness when the object
was accomplished. Their clothing, names and nations were changed perpetually; a Jew broker
at Cologne would figure some days after at Aix-la-Chapelle or Spa as a German baron, or a Dutch
merchant, keeping open table, and playing a high game; and the next week he might be met with
in a forest at the head of his troop. Young and beautiful women were always in their suite,
who, particularly in the task of obtaining or falsifying passports, did more by their address
than their lovers could have effected by their courage. Spies, principally Jews, were employed
throughout the whole country, to give notice where a booty might be obtained. Spring and autumn
were the principal seasons of their harvest; in winter the roads were almost impassable, and
in summer the days were too long; the light of the moon, in particular, was always avoided,
and so were the betraying foot prints in the snow. They seldom marched in a body to the place
of attack, but went thither two or three in a party, some on foot, some on horseback, and some
even in carriages. As soon as they had entered a village, their first care was to muffle the
church bell, so as to prevent an alarm being rung; or to commence a heavy fire, to give the
inhabitants an exaggerated idea of their numbers, and impress them with the feeling that it
would be more prudent to stay at home than to venture out into the fray.

John Buckler, alias Schinderhannes, the worthy whose youthful arm wielded with such force a
power constituted in this manner, was the son of a currier, and born at Muhlen, near Nastoeten,
on the right bank of the Rhine. The family intended to emigrate to Poland, but on the way the
father entered the Imperial service at Olmutz, in Moravia. He deserted, and his wife and child
followed him to the frontiers of Prussia, and subsequently the travellers took up their abode
again in the environs of the Rhine.

At the age of fifteen, Schinderhannes commenced his career of crime by spending a louis, with
which he had been entrusted, in a tavern. Afraid to return home, he wandered about the fields
till hunger compelled him to steal a horse, which he sold. Sheep stealing was his next vocation,
but in this he was caught and transferred to prison. He made his escape, however, the first
night, and returned in a very business-like manner to receive two crowns which were due to
him on account of the sheep he had stolen. After being associated with the band as their chief,
he went to buy a piece of linen, but thinking, from the situation of the premises, that it
might be obtained without any exchange of coin on his part, he returned the same evening, and
stealing a ladder in the neighbourhood, placed it at a window of the warehouse, and got in.
A man was writing in the interior, but the robber looked at him steadily, and shouldering his
booty, withdrew. He was taken a second time, but escaped as before on the same night.

His third escape was from a dark and damp vault in the prison of Schneppenbach, where, having
succeeded in penetrating to the kitchen, he tore an iron bar from the window by main force,
and leaped out at hazard. He broke his leg in the fall, but finding a stick, managed to drag
himself along, in the course of three nights, to Birkenmuhl, without a morsel of food, but
on the contrary, having left some ounces of skin and flesh of his own on the road.

Marianne Schoeffer was the first avowed mistress of Schinderhannes. She was a young girl of
fourteen, of ravishing beauty, and always "se mettait avec une élégance extreme." Blacken Klos,
one of the band, an unsuccessful suitor of the lady, one day, after meeting with a repulse,
out of revenge carried off her clothes. When the outrage was communicated to Schinderhannes,
he followed the ruffian to a cave where he had concealed himself, and slew him. It was Julia
Blaesius, however, who became the permanent companion of the young chief. The account given
by her of the manner in which she was united to the destiny of the robber is altogether improbable.
A person came to her, she said, and mentioned that somebody wished to speak to her in the forest
of Dolbach; she kept the assignation, and found there a handsome young man who told her that
she must follow him--an invitation which she was obliged at length by threats to accede to.
It appears sufficiently evident, however, that the personal attractions of Schinderhannes,
who was then not twenty-two, had been sufficient of themselves to tempt poor Julia to her fate,
and that of her own accord

  "She fled to the forest to hear a love tale."

It may be, indeed, as she affirmed, that she was at first ignorant of the profession of her
mysterious lover, who might address her somewhat in the words of the Scottish free-booter--

  "A lightsome eye, a soldier's mien--
  A bonnet of the blue,
  A doublet of the Lincoln green,
  'Twas all of me you knew."

But it is known that afterwards she even accompanied him personally in some of his adventures
dressed in men's clothes.

The robberies of this noted chief became more audacious and extensive every day, and at last
he established a kind of "black mail" among the Jews, at their own request. Accompanied one
day by only two of his comrades, he did not hesitate to attack a cavalcade of forty-five Jews
and five Christian peasants. The booty taken was only two bundles of tobacco, the robbers returning
some provisions on a remonstrance from one of the Jews, who pleaded poverty. Schinderhannes
then ordered them to take off their shoes and stockings, which he threw into a heap, leaving
to every one the care of finding his own property. The affray that ensued was tremendous; the
forty-five Jews who had patiently allowed themselves to be robbed by three men, fought furiously
with each other about their old shoes; and the robber, in contempt of their cowardice, gave
his carbine to one of them to hold while he looked on.

His daring career at length drew to a close, and he and his companions were arrested by the
French authorities, and brought to trial. The chief, with nineteen others, were condemned to
death in November, 1803, and Julia Blaesius to two years' imprisonment. The former met his
fate with characteristic intrepidity, occupied to the last moment with his cares about Julia
and his father.--From the Foreign Quarterly Review.--An excellent work.

       *       *       *       *       *

RESTROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD MANSIONS.

We are in the habit of passing by our old stone manor houses without knowing that they were
important village fortresses, and substitutes for castles. That this is the fact is beyond
all doubt, for Margaret Paston, writing to Sir John, says, "Ry't w'chipful hwsbond, I recomawnd
to zw and prey zw to gete some crosse bowis and wydses (windlasses to strain cross-bows,) and
quarrels (arrows with square heads) for zr howsis her ben low, yat yer may non man schet owt
wt no long bowe." From hence we learn that the service of the long bow was connected with elevation
in the building.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGAL CRUSHING TO DEATH.

At the assizes in Sussex, August, 1735, a man who pretended to be dumb and lame, was indicted
for a barbarous murder and robbery. He had been taken up upon suspicion, several spots of blood,
and part of the property being found upon him. When he was brought to the bar, he would not
speak or plead, though often urged to it, and the sentence to be inflicted on such as stand
mute, read to him, in vain. Four or five persons in the court, swore that they had heard him
speak, and the boy who was his accomplice, and apprehended, was there to be a witness against
him; yet he continued mute; whereupon he was carried back to Horsham gaol, to be pressed to
death, if he would not plead--when they laid on him 100 weight, then added 100 more, and he
still continued obstinate; they then added 100 more, which made 300 lb. weight, yet he would
not speak; 50 lb. more was added, when he was nearly dead, having all the agonies of death
upon him; then the executioner, who weighed about 16 or 17 stone, laid down upon the board
which was over him, and, adding to the weight, killed him in an instant. G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

LATE INSTRUCTION.

Socrates in his old age, learned to play upon a musical instrument. Cato, aged 80, began to
learn Greek; and Plutarch, in his old age, acquired Latin. John Gelida, of Valentia, in Spain,
did not begin the study of belles-lettres, until he was 40 years old.

Henry Spelman, having in his youth neglected the sciences, resumed them at the age of 50, with
extraordinary success.

Fairfax, after having been the general of the parliamentary army in England, went to Oxford,
and took his degree as Doctor-of-Law. Colbert, when minister, and almost 60 years of age, returned
to his Latin and his law, in a situation where the neglect of one, if not both, might have
been thought excusable; and Mons. Le Tellier, chancellor of France, reverted to the learning
of logic that he might dispute with his grand-children.

Sir John Davies, at the age of 25, produced a poem on "The Immortality of the Soul," and in
his 62nd year, as Mr. Thomas Campbell facetiously observes, when a judge and a statesman, another
on dancing.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNE OF GEIERSTEIN.

[As Sir Walter Scott's new work has not reached us in time to enable us to fill in the outline
of the story in our present Number, we give a few sketchy extracts, or portraits,--such as
will increase the interest for the appearance of the Narrative.

There are some admirable specimens of Swiss scenery, which have the effect of sublime painting:
witness the following attempt of two travellers, father and son, who with their guide, are
bewildered in the mountains by a sudden storm. The younger attempts to scale a broken path
on the side of the precipice:]

Thus estimating the extent of his danger by the measure of sound sense and reality, and supported
by some degree of practice in such exercise, the brave youth went forward on his awful journey,
step by step, winning his way with a caution, and fortitude, and presence of mind, which alone
could have saved him from instant destruction. At length he gained a point where a projecting
rock formed the angle of the precipice, so far as it had been visible to him from the platform.
This, therefore, was the critical point of his undertaking; but it was also the most perilous
part of it. The rock projected more than six feet forward over the torrent, which he heard
raging at the depth of a hundred yards beneath, with a noise like subterranean thunder. He
examined the spot with the utmost care, and was led by the existence of shrubs, grass, and
even stunted trees, to believe that this rock marked the farthest extent of the slip, or slide
of earth, and that, could he but round the angle of which it was the termination, he might
hope to attain the continuation of the path which had been so strangely interrupted by this
convulsion of nature. But the crag jutted out so much as to afford no possibility of passing
either under or around it; and as it rose several feet above the position which Arthur had
attained, it was no easy matter to climb over it. This was, however, the course which he chose,
as the only mode of surmounting what he hoped might prove the last obstacle to his voyage of
discovery. A projecting tree afforded him the means of raising and swinging himself up to the
top of the crag. But he had scarcely planted himself on it, had scarcely a moment to congratulate
himself, on seeing, amid a wild chaos of cliffs and woods, the gloomy ruins of Geierstein,
with smoke arising, and indicating something like a human habitation beside them, when, to
his extreme terror, he felt the huge cliff on which he stood tremble, stoop slowly forward,
and gradually sink from its position. Projecting as it was, and shaken as its equilibrium had
been by the recent earthquake, it lay now so insecurely poised, that its balance was entirely
destroyed, even by the addition of the young man's weight. Aroused by the imminence of the
danger, Arthur, by an instinctive attempt at self-preservation, drew cautiously back from the
falling crag into the tree by which he had ascended, and turned his head back as if spell-bound,
to watch the descent of the fatal rock from which he had just retreated. It tottered for two
or three seconds, as if uncertain which way to fall; and had it taken a sidelong direction,
must have dashed the adventurer from his place of refuge, or borne both the tree and him headlong
down into the river. After a moment of horrible uncertainty, the power of gravitation determined
a direct and forward descent. Down went the huge fragment, which must have weighed at least
twenty tons, rending and splintering in its precipitate course the trees and bushes which it
encountered, and settling at length in the channel of the torrent, with a din equal to the
discharge of a hundred pieces of artillery. The sound was re-echoed from bank to bank, from
precipice to precipice, with emulative thunders; nor was the tumult silent till it rose into
the region of eternal snows, which, equally insensible to terrestrial sounds, and unfavourable
to animal life, heard the roar in their majestic solitude, but suffered it to die away without
a responsive voice.

The solid rock had trembled and rent beneath his footsteps; and although, by an effort rather
mechanical than voluntary, he had withdrawn himself from the instant ruin attending its descent,
he felt as if the better part of him, his firmness of mind and strength of body, had been rent
away with the descending rock, as it fell thundering, with clouds of dust and smoke, into the
torrents and whirlpools of the vexed gulf beneath. In fact, the seaman swept from the deck
of a wrecked vessel, drenched in the waves, and battered against the rocks on the shore, does
not differ more from the same mariner, when, at the commencement of the gale, he stood upon
the deck of his favourite ship, proud of her strength and his own dexterity, than Arthur, when
commencing his journey, from the same Arthur, while clinging to the decayed trunk of an old
tree, from which, suspended between heaven and earth, he saw the fall of the crag which he
had so nearly accompanied. The effects of his terror, indeed, were physical as well as moral,
for a thousand colours played before his eyes; he was attacked by a sick dizziness, and deprived
at once of the obedience of those limbs which had hitherto served him so admirably; his arms
and hands, as if no longer at his own command, now clung to the branches of the tree, with
a cramp-like tenacity, over which he seemed to possess no power, and now trembled in a state
of such complete nervous relaxation, as led him to fear that they were becoming unable to support
him longer in his position.

[We must leave the reader here, although in dire suspense--and we regret to do so, because
a beautiful incident follows--to give the following exquisite sketch of the heroine--a Swiss
maiden. We will endeavour to connect these passages with our abridgment of the narrative.]

An upper vest, neither so close as to display the person--a habit forbidden by the sumptuary
laws of the canton--nor so loose as to be an encumbrance in walking or climbing, covered a
close tunic of a different colour, and came down beneath the middle of the leg, but suffered
the ancle, in all its fine proportions, to be completely visible. The foot was defended by
a sandal, the point of which was turned upwards, and the crossings and knots of the strings
which secured it on the front of the leg were garnished with silver rings. The upper vest was
gathered round the middle by a sash of parti-coloured silk, ornamented with twisted threads
of gold; while the tunic, open at the throat, permitted the shape and exquisite whiteness of
a well-formed neck to be visible at the collar, and for an inch or two beneath. The small portion
of the throat and bosom thus exposed was even more brilliantly fair than was promised by the
countenance, which last bore some marks of having been freely exposed to the sun and air--by
no means in a degree to diminish its beauty, but just so far as to show that the maiden possessed
the health which is purchased by habits of rural exercise. Her long, fair hair fell down in
a profusion of curls on each side of a face whose blue eyes, lovely features, and dignified
simplicity of expression, implied at once a character of gentleness, and of the self-relying
resolution of a mind too virtuous to suspect evil, and too noble to fear it. Above these locks
beauty's natural and most beseeming ornament--or rather, I should say, amongst them--was placed
the small bonnet, which, from its size, little answered the purpose of protecting the head,
but served to exercise the ingenuity of the fair wearer, who had not failed, according to the
prevailing custom of the mountain maidens, to decorate the tiny cap with a heron's feather,
and the then unusual luxury of a small and thin chain of gold, long enough to encircle the
cap four or five times, and having the ends secured under a broad medal of the same costly
metal. I have only to add, that the stature of the young person was something above the common
size, and that the whole contour of her form, without being in the slightest degree masculine,
resembled that of Minerva, rather than the proud beauties of Juno, or the yielding graces of
Venus. The noble brow, the well-formed and active limbs, the firm and yet light step; above
all, the total absence of any thing resembling the consciousness of personal beauty, and the
open and candid look, which seemed desirous of knowing nothing that was hidden, and conscious
that she herself had nothing to hide, were traits not unworthy of the goddess of wisdom and
of chastity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY.

