    [Footnote 29: The difficulty with France as to Tahiti having
    been satisfactorily disposed of, King Louis Philippe was
    enabled to visit England, the first French King to come on
    a visit to the Sovereign of England. The King was
    enthusiastically received in England, visited Claremont (which
    he was destined to occupy in exile), was installed as a Knight
    of the Garter at Windsor with great magnificence, and visited
    Eton College and Woolwich Arsenal.]

[Pageheading: SOLICITUDE OF QUEEN LOUISE]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 7th October 1844.

MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--... I wrote to my mother, to quiet her, all you kindly tell me
about my dear father. We are quite sure, I assure you, that you and Albert will take care of
him, and that he is with you in safe hand. And what makes my mother uneasy is the fear that,
being at liberty without control, he will make too much, as she says, le jeune homme, ride,
go about, and do everything as if he was still twenty years old. If I must tell you all the
truth, she is afraid also he will eat too much. I am sure he will tell it to you himself, as
he was so much amused with this fear; but to do her pleasure, being well assured by me that
you would allow it, and that it was even customary, he has given up, of himself, all thought
of attending your early breakfast: but I perceive I write as if he was not already under your
roof. I will also only say, that though he has sent over his horses in case they should be
wanted, my mother begs you to prevent, if possible, his riding at all. I wrote to her already
that I supposed there would be no occasion for riding, and that your promenades would be either
on foot or in carriage. I entrusted Montpensier with all my messages for you, my beloved Victoria
and your dear children. He hopes you will permit him, during his stay at Windsor, to make two
excursions--one to London, and one to Woolwich--he is very curious to see, as an artillery
officer. I mention it as he would be, perhaps, too shy or too discreet to mention it himself.
He might very well do those two trips by the railroad and be back for dinner-time, and I am
sure you will have no objection to them.... Yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

I am very glad that Lord Charles Wellesley is one of those who will attend my father. Montpensier
and him will have surely capital fun together, and he was, you know, a great favourite with
every one at Eu.

DEAREST UNCLE,--You will, I am sure, forgive my writing but a few lines as I am all alone in
the agitation of the dear King's arrival, and I will leave my letter open to announce it to
you. My dearest master is gone to Portsmouth to receive him. The excitement and curiosity to
see the dear King, and the desire to give him a most hearty reception, is very great indeed.

Many thanks for your kind letters of the 28th and 4th. I can't think who could have said that
Peel, etc., would not have been here; for he, Aberdeen, and the old Duke are to be here the
whole time, and all the other Ministers will come during his stay.

I am very glad Joinville is arrived, and avoided his entrées triomphales. I hope he will take
great care of himself.

You will have heard from dear Louise of our voyage, etc. I cannot reconcile myself to be here
again, and pine for my dear Highlands, the hills, the pure air, the quiet, the retirement,
the liberty--all--more than is right. The children are well. I am sorry to hear that you are
not quite so yet.

3.30.--The King and Montpensier arrived quite safely at two, and are both looking extremely
well. We have just lunched with them. It seems like a dream to me, and a very pleasant one.

Albert sends his affectionate love. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Bertie has immediately taken a passion for Montpensier.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 9th October 1844. But he perfectly understands the reasons which prevented your
Majesty from writing during your stay in the Highlands. Lord Melbourne is very glad to find
that your Majesty enjoyed that country so much, and is so enthusiastically fond of it. Lord
Melbourne believes that he was at the places which your Majesty mentions. In the year 1802
he stayed some months in Perthshire with the late Lord Kinnaird, and enjoyed it much. It annoys
him sometimes to think how altered he is in strength since that time. Lord Melbourne has never
yet thanked your Majesty for the pretty etchings of poor Islay and Eos, which your Majesty
sent to Lord Melbourne when he was last at Windsor. Lord Melbourne has ordered them both to
be framed, and will hang them up in his room here. They will afford Lord Melbourne most agreeable
and pleasing souvenirs of the happiest period of his life, for he cannot say otherwise than
that he continually misses and regrets the time when he had daily confidential communication
with your Majesty. Lord Glenlyon[30] has one merit in Lord Melbourne's eyes, which is that
he was a steady and firm supporter to the last of Lord Melbourne's Government. Lord Melbourne
hopes and trusts that he feels no animosity against those who opposed him. But he does and
always shall entertain a kindly and grateful recollection of those who supported him.

Lord Melbourne begs to be remembered to His Royal Highness.

    [Footnote 30: See vol. i. p. 429.]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 12th October 1844.

MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--... I thank you very much for attending to all my recommendations
about my father: I only fear that they will lead you to believe that we consider him as a great
child and treat him like one: but he is so precious and dear to us all that I am sure you will
understand and excuse our being over anxious... Yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

[Pageheading: A SUCCESSFUL VISIT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE HOUSE, 17th October 1844.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had intended to have written to you on Monday, but you will since have
heard of the great confusion of that day which prevented me from doing so. The dear King's
visit went off to perfection, and I much and deeply regret its being passed. He was delighted,
and was most enthusiastically and affectionately received wherever he showed himself. Our proceedings
I wrote to good, dear Louise (whom you should not leave so long alone), who will no doubt have
given you the details. What an extraordinary man the King is! What a wonderful memory, and
how lively, how sagacious!He spoke very openly to us all, and is determined that our affairs
should go on well. He wishes Tahiti au fond de la mer. He spoke also very openly about poor
Hadjy's brochure which seems to have distressed him more than anything. The King praised my
dearest Albert most highly, and fully appreciates his great qualities and talents--and what
gratifies me so much, treats him completely as his equal, calling him "Mon Frère," and saying
to me that my husband was the same as me, which it is--and "Le Prince Albert, c'est pour moi
le Roi." The King is very sad to go, but he is determined, he says, to see me every year. Another
very great thing is, that the officers of the two Navies staying at Portsmouth were on the
best terms together and paying one another every sort of compliment. As Admiral La Susse (a
very gentlemanlike man) and his squadron were sadly disappointed on Monday,[31] we thought
it would please them if we went on board the Gomer, which we did, on Tuesday morning, and breakfasted
there, and I drank the King's health. I am certain that the visit and everything connected
with it can but do the greatest good.

We stay here till Monday. It is a very comfortable little house, and the grounds and place
are delightful, so private--and the view so fine.

I must now conclude, begging you to believe me, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I forgot to say how much we liked good Montpensier, who got on extremely well.

    [Footnote 31: It had been intended that the King should return
    to France, as he had come, by way of Portsmouth, crossing in
    the frigate Gomer, but, in consequence of the wet and stormy
    weather, he returned by Dover and Calais.]

[Pageheading: DEPARTURE OF THE KING]

Queen Victoria to the King of the French.

OSBORNE HOUSE, le 17 Octobre 1844.

SIRE, ET MON TRÈS CHER FRÈRE,--Votre Majesté m'a écrit deux bien bonnes lettres de Douvres
pour lesquelles je vous remercie de tout mon c[oe]ur. Les expressions de bonté et d'amitié
que vous me vouez ainsi qu'à mon cher Albert nous touchent sensiblement; je n'ai pas besoin
de vous dire encore, combien nous vous sommes attachés et combien nous désirons voir se raffermir
de plus en plus cette entente cordiale entre nos deux pays qui existe si heureusement entre
nous personnellement. C'était avec un vif regret que nous nous sommes séparés de votre Majesté,
et de Montpensier, et ce sera une grande fête que de voir renouveler une visite dont le souvenir
nous est si cher.

Albert se met à vos pieds, Sire, bien sensible ainsi que moi-même de l'amitié et la confiance
que vous lui avez témoignées.

J'ose prier votre Majesté d'offrir mes plus tendres hommages à la Reine et à Madame votre S[oe]ur
et de me rappeler au souvenir de Montpensier.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the happiness of receiving your kind letter of the 26th while I was
dressing to go to the City for the opening of the Royal Exchange.[32] Nothing ever went off
better, and the procession there, as well as all the proceedings at the Royal Exchange, were
splendid and royal in the extreme. It was a fine and gratifying sight to see the myriads of
people assembled--more than at the Coronation even, and all in such good humour, and so loyal;
the articles in the papers, too, are most kind and gratifying; they say no Sovereign was more
loved than I am (I am bold enough to say), and that, from our happy domestic home--which gives
such a good example. The Times you have, and I venture to add a Chronicle, as I think it very
pretty; you should read the accounts. I seldom remember being so gratified and pleased with
any public show, and my beloved Albert was so enthusiastically received by the people. He is
so beloved by all the really influential people, and by all right-thinking ones. We came back
here yesterday evening. The accounts from Paris are excellent too. How long are the good Joinvilles
to remain in the south, and where? By-the-by, dearest Uncle, have you read the continuation
of Consuelo,[33] called the "Comtesse de Rudolstadt"? It is dreadfully interesting.

The Knights of the Garter did not wear the whole costume, but only the mantle. Being on this
topic, shall tell you that I intend giving the Garter to Ernest, but pray do not mention it
to E. or any one.

With Albert's affectionate love. Ever your devoted Niece and Child,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 32: On the preceding day.]

    [Footnote 33: The novel by George Sand (1804-1876), published
    in 1842.]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

SAINT CLOUD, le 15 Novembre 1844.

MADAME MA BIEN CHÈRE S[OE]UR,--Mes souvenirs de Windsor sont de ceux dont aucun ne s'efface.
Je n'oublie donc pas une petite question qui m'a été si joliment adressée, Where is my gun?
et à présent j'en ai trouvé un qui serait indigne de la destinée que je prie votre Majesté
de me permettre de lui donner, si le regret que la disparition du premier fusil avait causé,
ne m'avait pas appris que le second devait être d'un genre à supporter tous les accidents que
l'enfance aime à infliger à ses joujoux. C'est donc tout simplement un très modeste fusil de
munition adapté a sa taille que j'adresse á votre Majesté pour son auguste et charmant enfant
le Prince de Galles, comme ma réponse à sa question.

J'ai encore une autre dette dont je vous prie de me permettre de m'acquitter. Quelque vif que
soit mon désir de revoir Windsor, ce serait un trop long retard que d'attendre cet heureux
moment, pour offrir à la Princesse Royale cette petite boîte à ouvrage, de Paris, qu'elle m'a
fait espérer lui serait agréable, et tout ce que je désire c'est que vos enfants se ressouviennent
un jour d'avoir vu celui qui a été le fidèle ami de leur grand-père, comme il l'est et le sera
toujours de leurs bien aimés parents.

23rd November 1844.

Sir Henry Hardinge[34] with his most humble duty to your Majesty, humbly submits for your Majesty's
consideration the following observations on the state of affairs in this large portion of your
Majesty's dominions.

The return of peace has also increased the desire of the native population to receive the advantages
of English education. The literature of the West is the most favourite study amongst the Hindoos
in their schools and colleges. They will discuss with accuracy the most important events in
British History. Boys of fifteen years of age, black in colour, will recite the most favourite
passages from Shakespeare, ably quoting the notes of the English and German commentators. They
excel in mathematics, and in legal subtleties their acuteness is most extraordinary.

In order to reward native talent and render it practically useful to the State, Sir Henry Hardinge,
after due deliberation, has issued a resolution, by which the most meritorious students will
be appointed to fill the public offices which fall vacant throughout Bengal.

This encouragement has been received by the Hindoo population with the greatest gratitude.
The studies in the Mohammedan schools and colleges have hitherto been confined to Arabic, the
Koran, and abstruse studies relating to their religion, having always shown a marked aversion
to English literature. Since the publication of the Resolution they have at once determined
to change their system in order to participate in the benefits held out to native merit of
every sect.

It is impossible throughout your Majesty's immense Empire to employ the number of highly paid
European civil servants which the public service requires. This deficiency is the great evil
of British Administration. By dispersing annually a proportion of well-educated natives throughout
the provinces, under British superintendence, well-founded hopes are entertained that prejudices
may gradually disappear, the public service be improved, and attachment to British institutions
increased....

Sir Henry Hardinge, in closing these observations, most humbly ventures to assure your Majesty
that he anticipates no occurrence as probable, by which the tranquillity of this portion of
your Majesty's dominions is likely to be disturbed.

H. HARDINGE.

    [Footnote 34: Governor-General of India, in succession to Lord
    Ellenborough.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XIV

The new year (1845) opened auspiciously, trade improving owing to the great impetus given to
it by the many lines of railway then in course of promotion. Over two hundred schemes were
prepared at the commencement of the session to seek legislative sanction, and speculation outran
all reasonable limits. The Income Tax (which in the ordinary course would have expired) was
renewed, and the Anti-Corn Law Leaguers were more persistent than ever in their assaults on
Protection, while the attacks on the Ministry from a section of their own party were redoubled.
The most remarkable measure of the year was the Government Bill for increasing the grant to
the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, which was strongly opposed from the Conservative and
the Protestant points of view; Mr Gladstone, though he approved of the measure, retired from
the Ministry, as he had a few years before written in the opposite sense. Towards the close
of the year the condition of Ireland, owing to the failure of the potato crop, became very
alarming, and the Ministry greatly embarrassed. Lord John Russell wrote from Edinburgh to the
electors of the City of London, announcing his conversion to the Repeal of the Corn Laws, and
the Times announced that such a Bill would be brought in by the Ministry. Peel, reluctant to
accept the task, resigned office in December, and a Whig Ministry was attempted. Owing to dissensions,
the attempt had to be abandoned, and Peel returned to office, without Lord Stanley, but with
Mr Gladstone, who however did not seek re-election for the seat vacated by his acceptance of
office.

A dispute of great importance arose during the year with the United States, relating to the
boundary line between English and American territory west of the Rocky Mountains. Twenty-five
years earlier the same question had arisen, and had been settled on the footing of joint occupancy.
The increased importance of the Pacific slope made the matter more vital, involving as it did
the ownership of Vancouver Island and the mouth of the Columbia River; President Polk unequivocally
claimed the whole, and said he would not shrink from upholding America's interests; the British
Government was equally firm, and the matter was not adjusted till 1846.

In India, which during nearly the whole year enjoyed peace, the Sikhs in December assumed the
aggressive, and crossed the Sutlej, invading British India. They were signally defeated by
Sir Hugh Gough at Moodkee and Ferozeshah. In Scinde Sir Charles Napier prosecuted operations
against the mountain desert tribes.

In New Zealand some disastrous collisions took place between the natives and the settlers;
the former on two occasions either defeating or repulsing the British arms.

In France the most important events were the Bill for fortifying Paris, the campaign waged
against Abd-el-Kader in Algeria, and a horrible act of cruelty perpetrated there. In Spain
Don Carlos abdicated his claims to the throne in favour of his son; the Queen's engagement
to Count Trapani was rumoured. In other parts of Europe little that was eventful occurred.

CHAPTER XIV

1845

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 14th January 1845.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--What you say about Aquila[1] and Montpensier interests me. What madness
is it then to force Trapani on Spain! Pray explain to me the cause of the King's obstinacy
about that Spanish marriage, for no country has a right to dictate in that way to another.
If Tatane[2] was to think of the Infanta, England would be extremely indignant, and would (and
with right) consider it tantamount to a marriage with the Queen herself. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 1: Louis Charles, Comte d'Aquila, a son of Francis
    I., King of the Two Sicilies, and brother of the Comte de
    Trapani and of Queen Christina; he and his brother were
    therefore uncles of Queen Isabella.]

    [Footnote 2: The Duc de Montpensier.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 18th January 1845.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... The Spanish marriage question is really very curious; in fact, all
the other Bourbon branches are hostile to the Orleans family, but the idea that makes the King
so constant in his views about it, is that he imagines it would create in France a bad impression
if now any other than a Bourbon was to marry the Queen of Spain.

