The prosperity of New South Wales--founded on the government expenditure, so vast as to excite
the most serious complaints, but so subtle as to elude imperial censure--was but slightly participated
by Van Diemen's Land. Its later occupation, the low character of the first settlers, and the
subordinate station of its ruler, afforded no room for fashion. Many emancipists in Sydney
had become wealthy by the vices of the less cunning and thrifty, and created a social state,
without a precedent. They could command the most expensive luxuries; and, compared with them,
the highest officers of the government were poor. They looked for the honors of opulence, and
did not perceive that an emancipist must pass through oblivion to honor; and that, in this
case, to distinguish is to stigmatise.

It was observed by Mr. Bigge, that when Macquarie made some emancipists magistrates, and professed
by that dignity to restore them to the station they had lost, he forgot that they were elevated
to a rank they had never filled. It was equally true, that a large number of free colonists,
whose pretensions in early life were equally limited, rose by opulence to a superior station,
and higher pretensions: to deny the usual appendages of their position, would be virtually
to degrade them. Whether just or not, the formal exclusion of emancipists was a supplement
to the penalty of the law, and, as such, must have been taken. It is not the actual exaltation,
but equal eligibility of British subjects to the highest station, which constitutes that equality
so grateful to Englishmen: the son of a sweep may keep the conscience of a king.

There were freed men, who were even detestable for their wealth; others, whose offences would
not have excluded them from any society. Such was that of Mr. Redfern, transported when a boy,
for dropping a word to the mutineers of the Nore. Society will ever make its exceptions, founded
on the nature of the offence, the proofs of reformation, or the general character; but Governor
Macquarie resolved to wash out the stain by authority, and to treat those as enemies who disputed
his policy, or refused to share in its promotion.

The determination of the free to make no distinction between those who merited the oblivion
of their offences, and emancipists atrocious in their history and character, rendered the hostility
of caste more inveterate.

The measures of Macquarie were followed by years of faction: a press, representing emancipist
interests and emancipist principles, and making the Governor the instrument or the object of
the most violent hatred; still, on their side, the emigrants were often positive, virulent,
and contemptuous.

From this, Van Diemen's Land was free: there were few whose wealth or education could pretend
to rank. One gentleman so situated, Mr. Gatehouse, by his respectability and intelligence,
won the respect of all classes: he was admitted to the table of the Governor, and was only
distinguished by the colonists for his enterprise and probity. When an office of trust was
in their gift, they chose him to share it with the chief merchants of the island; and thus
pronounced the judgment which good men will adopt, against both an undiscriminating ban and
an unlimited admission.

The Commissioner, Bigge, joined with the anti-emancipists, in almost every prejudice or opinion.
Great as were the services he rendered by his keen observation and courageous delineation of
colonial society, in this, and some other instances, he overlooked those facts of its history,
which gave a disastrous prominence and authority to the emancipist settlers; and enabled them
to claim consideration which offended the free men, not always superior in substantial merit.

But disabilities, far more serious and unexpected, united the emancipists, and obtained the
sympathy of many who could not be charged with indifference to crime. The remission of punishment
was in the discretion of the Governor-in-chief: the 30 Geo. iii, authorised the granting of
pardons, and the commission of the Governor, which recited this provision, was supposed to
convey the power. In 1811, Macquarie declared that a long course of good conduct would be an
essential preliminary; but the rule was more easily stated than enforced: and, in 1813, one
day in the year was fixed for pardons. It was declared that conditional pardons could only
be granted when ten years, or half sentence, had expired; or, for absolute pardons, until fifteen
years, or three-fourths had been fulfilled.

Fond of dispensing mercy, he appointed a day, when those who thought themselves entitled crowded
his presence. The petitions, drawn up by letter-writers, dwelt on every topic calculated to
move to compliance; among which were profuse compliments to the Governor's benevolence and
humanity. The concourse of suppliants was often very great--many venturing to ask, who did
not hope to obtain; and whose sole claim to mercy, was the bad terms on which they lived with
the law. The crowd pressed on with their (700) petitions, which the Governor read in their
presence, and by one letter of the alphabet gave liberty to the impatient captives, or sent
them back to merit freedom, as freedom was then merited. The Court of Clemency, thronged by
suitors, would have afforded a fine subject to the artist--a scene unique in the history of man.

The dispensation of pardons was not regulated by any uniform principles. The interest of superintendents
was given, as the reward of task-work performed for the crown; more successful, by services
rendered to themselves. Such was a common condition; but many are mentioned, who obtained their
pardons on easier terms than personal labor. The loan of a horse and cart, driven by his assigned
servants, procured the liberation of the lender; others hired vehicles to convey his Excellency's
baggage during his progresses, and thus payed in money the price of freedom. The bargain was
public, and questions of national policy never entered the minds of him who granted, or those
procuring the royal mercy. The grant of pardons, thus formed an important department of Macquarie's
government.

A decision of the Court of King's Bench, Bullock v. Dodds, where the plaintiff was an emancipist,
seemed to peril their freedom and property. The defendant, when sued in England on a bill,
pleaded the attaint of the plaintiff, who had received the pardon of Macquarie. The validity
of these remissions, which affected great numbers, was thus brought to the test. The Chief
Justice, Abbott, declared that an attainted person was, in law, as one civiliter mortuus: he
might acquire, not because he was entitled to hold any possession, but because a donor could
not make his own act void, and reclaim his own gift. Thus, a person giving or conveying property,
could not recall it, but the convict attaint could not hold it; and it passed to the hands
of the crown, in whom the property of the convict vested. This being the law, any ticket-of-leave
holder, or any person whatever standing on the pardon of the Governor, was liable to be deprived
by the crown, or obstructed at any moment in attempting to recover by suit at law.

The practice of the Sydney Supreme Court had long virtually rejected such distinctions. The
mixed considerations of convenience and equity induced the judges to allow the witnesses and
plaintiffs the same privilege, whether under attainder or not. Judge Field[126] declared, that
while the crown did not interfere, the court would not touch the property of the convict: nothing
but an attested copy of conviction, would be admitted as evidence of conviction. Nor would
the proof of transportation, of itself, as the law then stood, prove the incompetence of a
witness. His time might have expired; his expatriation might have been the condition of his
pardon, or his offence might have been a misdemeanour, and not involve the corruption of blood;[127]
and, except for perjury or subornation of perjury, the King's pardon might restore his competency
to give evidence, or hold property. On these grounds the courts of New South Wales were enabled
to evade the plea of attainder in bar of a just action.

But the decision of the King's Bench discovered a serious omission in the forms of pardon issued
by Macquarie, and further enquiry even threw doubt on his power to grant them at all. The Act
of Parliament empowered the crown to delegate the authority to remit a sentence of transportation,
to the Governor of New South Wales; but the commission of Macquarie said nothing of this power,
except the criminals were colonially convicted, when he could grant reprieves and pardons.
His instructions authorised the pardons to British offenders, and those instructions were warranted
by parliamentary enactment; but the royal commission gave no such power: and thus all his pardons
were legally void.

Another essential condition was neglected: to give effect to the pardon of the Governor, it
was required that he should transmit to the Secretary of State the names of the persons whose
sentences he remitted, to secure their insertion in the next list of general pardons. This
course had never been taken: no list of remissions had been furnished to Downing-street.

Among the extraordinary omissions of the government at home, was in many instances the place
of trial, and even the sentence of the transports; to save the labour of penmanship, "ditto,"
was sometimes the sentence found under another name, in the line of which 7, or 14, was written;
not at full length, but in numerals. Some "indents" exhibited erasures: in one, a sentence
of seven years had been converted to "life." More strange than all, some were sent without
even their names, and others without any sort of information of their crime or sentence; and
the authorities felt justified in gaining by artifice, from the unsuspecting prisoners themselves,
what the ministers had neglected to furnish.

An Irishman, who could give no information, was suited to a sentence by a process of analogy:
he was set down, in compliment to his comrade, for "life."[128] The regular transmission of
this kind of information was neglected, chiefly, by the Irish executive; ever slow to perceive
the obligation of reason and justice. The longevity of abuses is among the most instructive
lessons of history. The first fleet left their lists with the owners of the transports: soon
after their arrival, several prisoners declared their sentence was completed; this, the government
was unable to affirm or deny, and therefore did nothing; but one of the claimants, having expressed
his discontent in a manner disrespectful to the Lieutenant-Governor, received 600 lashes, and
six months in irons![129] Such atrocious neglect of the first principles of equity, is a sad
set-off against the license of indiscriminate pardons. The Roman judge was a far better casuist:
"For it seemeth to me unreasonable, to send a prisoner, and not withal to signify the crimes
laid against him."[130]

A quarrel between Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Eagar, an emancipist attorney, displayed more forcibly
the effect of the decision of the English Chief Justice. Judge Field presided at a session
of magistrates at Parramatta, when Eagar attempted to act as counsel: this was prevented by
the court; and the judge, as chairman, expressed himself, in reference to Eagar, in terms of
severe disapprobation and contempt, stigmatising him as a common barrator, or mover of quarrels,
whom the Governor might justly prosecute for sedition, or banish from the colony. Eagar, not
daunted by the philippic of the judge, resolved to sue him in a secondary court for slander,
and to recover back fees paid in the Supreme Court, and which he alleged the judge had levied
illegally; but Judge Field ordered his solicitor to file an affidavit of his belief that Eagar
was under attainder, and prayed for time to obtain an office copy of his conviction: this course
was allowed, and the action defeated.

Not long after, Eagar attempted to recover certain penalties imposed by the Act of Charles
II. on foreign merchants trading in the British plantations: the penalties were enormous, and
the law was obsolete. The particular object of Eagar was, to suppress the competition in the
sale of tea, which the superior trading connection of Messrs. L. Mestre and Co. enabled them
to offer. The French merchant very fairly pleaded the attaint of the plaintiff, and Judge Field,
in giving judgment, insisted on the obvious injustice of the suit; that men, whose trading
was permissive--themselves the creatures of indulgence--and who, by connivance, were allowed
to become wealthy and prosperous--should endeavour to rouse forgotten and restrictive statutes,
to put down useful commerce, and abuse privileges conceded by the clemency of the court; to
force the court to become the instrument of oppression: he therefore allowed the plea of the
merchants to bar the action of the plaintiff.

All this, on the face of it, was just; but the emancipists saw that it gave to the judge a
discretion which laid them helpless at his mercy: the same plea might be offered, to cover
a fraudulent debtor, or deprive a large majority of traders of legal protection. Nor was it
a competent answer, that the policy of the colony had been of an opposite description: to stand
on suffrage, was to stand in peril.

Prompted by this feeling, the emancipists formed themselves into committees at all the settlements,
and obtained the countenance of the Governor to a plan for moving the British legislature,
to correct the anomalies of the law. At a public meeting, Mr. Redfern presiding, the administration
of Governor Macquarie was the subject of their glowing eulogy. They predicted, that his name
would be immortalised by the gratitude of their descendants, who would remember his policy
with veneration. Against this meeting the judges protested, and professed to foresee great
peril to the dignity of their tribunals, and to the public safety; but the calm and guarded
proceedings of the emancipists avoided the scandal, and gained their cause some support. The
indignation of the judges was unreasonable: in the administration of justice they had usually
protected the equitable rights of the emancipists; but it was no reason for astonishment, that
a large trading interest felt uneasy in holding by indulgence privileges of so great importance,
and were anxious to obtain, by a declaratory statute, the remedy of their grievances. Mr. Eagar
was nominated secretary to their body, and instructed to obtain parliamentary support: in this
he was successful.

In the discussions of the Commons, the discontent of the emancipists was condemned by the tories,
and vindicated by the whigs. Peel charged Macquarie with culpable neglect, in omitting to forward
the lists; but he observed, no general pardon had been issued for fifty years: what it meant,
was unknown! The Act required the Governor to send home the names, and the Secretary to insert
them in a general pardon; but he could not tell in what manner to perform this duty. This was,
he said, of no practical moment: an individual might sue out a pardon, under the great seal,
without cost. He strongly opposed vesting by law in the Governor, a power to grant absolute
pardons--an interference with the prerogative royal, and dangerous to public justice. To sustain
this opinion, he instanced the case of a man who had been transported for forging a title to
an estate, and who, under such a pardon, had returned to Scotland to pursue his claim.

The zeal of Eagar in the cause of the emancipists, provoked the animadversion of ministers:
they hinted that he was liable to be treated as a felon at large, and was indebted to the lenity
of the executive for his safety; but Sir James Mackintosh, who gave respectability to the cause
he espoused, vindicated the claims of the emancipist with great warmth, and excused the earnestness
with which the confirmation of his title to liberty had been sought. That great and good man
displayed, in every debate, the generosity of his temper: always the enemy of despotism, every
form of oppression called him into action, and the emancipists were largely indebted to his
eloquence. After long delay, this agitating question was settled, but with a reservation of
serious moment. The new law[131] confirmed all the pardons granted in New South Wales, with
the rights they included; rendering them of full effect when they should be ratified by the
crown. It further provided that no future pardon should be held valid until allowed by the
Secretary of State, and then only within the colony of New South Wales and its dependencies--a
serious drawback from the attractions of the boon, as understood before; but which was no barrier
to the further extension of the royal clemency.

The opponents of Macquarie argued, that the profusion of mercy had not been followed by reformation:
the emancipists, they alleged, were unchanged in principle, and never abandoned their habits
of crime. This view was sustained by Mr. Wentworth's representations, which were intended to
subserve another end. He attempted to prove that financial oppression had driven back the expiree
on his former course, which the anti-emancipists maintained he had never forsaken.[132] It
was, however, the universal opinion, that atrocious crimes were diminished, and misdemeanours
increased.

The penal statistics were swollen by the extensive jurisdiction of police: by the cognizance
of acts which, in other countries, are left to opinion. The distribution of public money, annually
increasing towards a quarter of a million, placed within the reach of all the pleasures they
were accustomed to obtain, without the risks of crime. A closer inspection does not, however,
exalt our opinion of their moral worth; of 4,376 emancipists, reported by the chaplains, 369
were tolerable, but 296 only were respectable.[133] Nor was the accusation without force, that
the proof of reform, admitted by Macquarie, was the possession of money; that to thrive, by
whatever means, within the letter of the statute, was to honor the law, and to deserve well
of the crown.

The administration of Macquarie was attacked with great vehemence, and every detail of his
scheme called in question. The British government never had a system: the ministers treated
every difficulty as a thing apart from all others; and thus to arrest one form of mischief,
they released another. They directed the establishment of separate settlements, and thus occasioned
the vast expenses of their control. They then approved the concentrated labor of Macquarie,
and when its cost became severe, advocated dispersion. Every parliamentary discussion terminated
in the abandonment of some principle, or the establishment of some novelty. Always affected
by the passing aspect of transportation, the people of Great Britain never acquire a connected
view of the causes which alter its results; and have thus condemned or applauded the local
officers, for events casual or inevitable.

To diminish the pressure of the prisoners on the British treasury, Macquarie granted tickets-of-leave:
the holders, without employment and without capital, became robbers. Then he turned his thoughts
to public works of permanent utility, and requiring continued labor: these projects gradually
absorbed his attention, and perhaps perverted his judgment. Inspired by an able architect,
whom the chances of public retribution had thrown in his way, his erections greatly surpassed
the simple constructions of his predecessors. The settlement assumed the aspect of a large
building establishment, such as were seen in the ancient world, when captives were subject
to task-masters, and generals were chief masons. The more skilful the mechanic, the greater
his value to the works, and the smaller his chance of liberty: yet, to reconcile him to his
lot, he was mostly permitted to choose his own abode, and was enabled, by his surplus time,
to obtain all the comforts and luxuries of the colony. But the expenditure, which added to
the opulence of the settlers, enabled them to build also: they looked with envy on the government
which detained so large a proportion of the mechanical power: they forgot that the unproductive
employment of large numbers created the demand for their crops, without which no dollar had
been theirs to spend. Their outcries rung in the ears of the Commissioner: he blamed the improvidence
of the Governor, who had rejected their applications, and threw some ridicule on his architectural
ambition. The Commissioner only saw a gaol, but Macquarie believed, that when he erected an
edifice he was forming a model; and that in aiming at symmetry and refinement, he was fixing
the taste of a people.

The difficulty of reconciling adverse elements in penal colonisation, has been ever visible.
The modern principles of colonisation demand concentration: the establishment of so many branch
settlements was considered, from the beginning, a great economical error; and by those unaware
of its justification, was the subject of strong and pointed condemnation. No sooner, it was
observed, had the settlers landed their boxes, than they started a division for Norfolk Island;
and others, in rapid succession, broke off into fragmentary colonies. The same bridges, schools,
and courts, would be sufficient for ten thousand united people, but must be multiplied with
the separate settlements. It was urged that the concentration of labor would decrease the expense
of its supervision, and extend the resources of the community, by varying its industry. Such
were the doctrines of political writers,[134] but when they were adopted they were found to
produce unforeseen practical results.

The dispersion of the first era was necessary to safety: in the time of Macquarie the public
was in no apprehension of rebellion or famine, and thus prisoners could be combined; but the
aggregation of bad men will always exhibit an appalling and disgusting aspect: and the excesses,
sufferings, and debasement connected with the public works, the peculation of the officers
and the indolence of the men, brought again in view the evils of associated labor; and reinforced
the arguments for dispersion. The men, when together, became dealers, and indulged in all the
vices of cities; scattered, they became savage, and filled the colonies with crimes.

The secondary settlements have been often the theatres of great iniquity and oppression, and
the commandants have dared injustice, which no supreme authority would venture: to these meaner,
and sometimes contemptible agents, the prisoners must be subjected, on the principle of dispersion.
Such practical difficulties start up at every instant, and thus expose the policy of the government
to perpetual oscillation. An instance, of later date, will demonstrate the danger of minute
sub-divisions, which exclude a public press and a public opinion. A commandant resolved the
seduction of the daughter of a prisoner: he crept into her father's house, and offered violence.
The father wrote to the Governor (Brisbane); his letter passing, of course, through the office
of the commandant; who read the complaint, and ordered the aged parent to the triangles. The
doctor, knowing the nature of the offence, refused his sanction, on a plea of health. The tyrant
still insisted; but the obstinate humanity of the surgeon prevailed. What then? The father
was sent from the station, and, after a while, the daughter was thrown on Sydney, a prostitute.
This officer had an accomplished wife: she detected improper company in her room, and her exasperated
husband broke her arm to repress her outcries! It is to such hands that the prisoner has been
too often entrusted: to men, only known for their vices--broken down by debt and dissipation--who
have taken refuge, with the wrecks of their fortune and reputation, in a military command.

The obligation of this history to the Reports of Mr. Bigge, renders it proper to explain the
origin, nature, and operation of his commission. The representations of several colonists,
that the administration of Macquarie was subversive of public justice and favorable to crime;
that his expenditure was lavish, and his projects ridiculous, had reached the house of parliament.
To these charges the Rev. Samuel Marsden, chaplain and magistrate, added the full weight of
his authority. This person, from his long residence, had assumed a prominent place among the
magistrates. By his connection with two great societies for the propagation of Christianity
(the Church, and the London), he commanded large influence in the religious world. Nothing
can be more opposite than the estimates of his character, given by the partisans of the emancipists,
and those furnished by his ecclesiastical associates. Soured by the vices rampant around him,
and perhaps deteriorated by the administration of justice, when it was hard to distinguish
the magistrate from the executioner, he does not always appear to have merited the unmeasured
eulogies of his friends.[135] He was, however, celebrated for his attention to the islands
of the Pacific, whose welfare he promoted with exemplary diligence: his house was the home
of the missionaries who touched at Port Jackson; whose letters spread through Europe the reputation
of his benevolence. In reference to his ultimate intentions, their apprehension of his character
was probably just; but the magisterial office is rarely compatible with the duties of an ecclesiastic--least
of all, when punishments were discretionary, and inflicted on the spot. The servant, charged
with a misdemeanour, he flogged; who then took to the bush, and re-appearing, charged with
a capital crime, was hanged; and the magisterial divine attended him on the scaffold. This
was not peculiar; most clergymen were magistrates. But Marsden was warm and sensitive--perhaps,
resentful. The punishments he inflicted were distinguished for their severity: his opposition
to vice, his unsuccessful struggle to prevent it, and some methods of coercion, not then uncommon,
but which now look like torture, exposed him to the hatred of the prisoners. The differences
between Macquarie and this resolute clergyman, were frequent--they ended in open rupture; and
at length became so personally offensive to the Governor, that Marsden was dismissed from the
commission of the peace.

Mr. Henry Grey Bennet, member of parliament for Shrewsbury, addressed a letter to Earl Bathurst,
founded on the material furnished by Mr. Marsden. This publication delineated a great variety
of abuses, and charged Macquarie with ignorance, rashness, and oppression. Having thus prepared
the way, a motion was made in parliament, which led to the issue of the Commission of Enquiry,
entrusted to John Thomas Bigge, Esq., a relative of Mr. Bennet, and by profession a barrister.
The Commissioner was attended by Mr. Hobbs Scott, formerly a wine-merchant, and afterwards
Archdeacon of New South Wales; on whom the prosecution of the enquiry devolved, in the event
of the Commissioner's death. The appointment of this commission was extremely painful to Macquarie:
it expressed distrust in the government, or the ascendancy of his opponents in parliament.
Nor was it difficult to foresee, that an enquiry conducted by one individual, who must depend
on the statements of factions, and colonial factions, of all the least scrupulous--always liable
to many serious errors--must become a formidable instrument in the hands of one or other of
the parties struggling for supremacy.

The Commissioner landed (October, 1819) in New South Wales, with the honors due to a gentleman
distinguished by the royal confidence. The civil and military officers, with a large assemblage
of the colonists, collected to witness the ceremony of presentation. The oaths of allegiance
and supremacy were administered by the Judge Advocate, and the commission read. This document
recited that it was necessary to enquire into the laws, regulations, civil, military, and ecclesiastical;
and to ascertain the revenue, trade, and resources of the colonies. The Commissioner was charged
to report the information collected, "and his opinions thereon."

Macquarie addressed the Commissioner, and congratulated himself and the colony on the arrival
of a servant of the King so eminent. Nothing could inspire him with greater hope for the public
weal. The assistance in his power, he would cheerfully afford: the prosperity of the colony
would gratify the first wish of his heart.

The Commissioner then addressed the assembly, stating that though the terms of his commission
were explicit and comprehensive, he deemed it right to embrace the occasion to explain the
object of his Majesty's government, and to prevent any possible misapprehension of their motives.
The increase of transportation to these colonies, and the doubts entertained of the efficacy
of the system of secondary punishments, had prompted the enquiry. His arrival had been delayed,
but the time would give opportunity for minute researches into the state of crime, undertaken
by Mr. Buxton; and for the revision of the penal code. It belonged to himself to examine whether
these colonies had answered the purposes of their institution, and whether their attainments
in civilisation had not disqualified them from fulfilling their original design; or whether
it were yet possible, to render transportation a terror at home, and an instrument of punishment
and reformation. This, though the principal topic, would not exclude others of moment: he expected
assistance from every class, and felt encouraged from the display of candour by the head of
the government; from which he augured the most beneficial results. He then concluded in the
following words:--"I will only add, I bring to this investigation the deepest conviction of
its importance: I approach it without any prejudice that can influence my future opinions,
either of systems or individuals. I feel a determination, from which no earthly consideration
shall move me, of conducting it to its conclusion, with the strictest impartiality to all.
In the course of the enquiry I mean to pursue, I shall give sufficient opportunities to those
whose attendance I may require, to consider the points submitted to them for their declarations
and opinions. I wish to impress on every one, that my principal object is the attainment of
truth; and while I am free to declare, that nothing is to be apprehended from a fair and candid
disclosure of truth, yet I am equally bound to apprise the community, that nothing is to be
hoped for from the concealment of the truth for private purposes, or from the gratification
of malignant feelings and personal resentment." He warmly acknowledged his honorable reception
from Governor Macquarie, who assigned him precedence to all but the Lieutenant-Governor.

The Commissioner's arrival in Van Diemen's Land (1820) was attended with the same military
honors: wherever he went he was received with ceremony, and watched with jealousy and apprehension.
The habits of Mr. Bigge were simple, complacent, and industrious: he labored to draw from all
classes their feelings and designs--nothing escaped his curiosity. His opinions are given on
every subject with equal quietness, whether they relate to the salting of beef, or the most
profound questions of government. The Reports he sent to the Secretary of State descended to
the smallest matters: he noted every rood of land granted, and every ration issued. The style
of these documents is felt to be prolix, and their arrangement perplexing. Their contents excited
very general interest in England, and in Australasia unbounded indignation.[136] Whatever epithet
of hatred and contempt could be applied by impotence and wrath, for years fell on the imperturbable
Commissioner and his secretary. He was charged with eaves-dropping, back parlour scandal, partisanship,
and wilful lying. The particular delineation of individual conduct, and which he thought requisite
to illustrate systems, excited the utmost vexation: it was painful to officers, to find their
character, their habits, and the profits of their places, laid open to national observation.
Perhaps, those details were sometimes beyond an obvious political necessity; but the plain
exhibition of principles in old English phrases--giving vice its true name--measuring the results
of transportation by a standard recognised outside both the mess-room and the gaol--was of
vast advantage to the colonists themselves. The reference made to Bigge's Reports in this work,
however, is always limited to facts, which could not be distorted or colored. His connections,
and the spirit of his mission, prejudiced his judgment, respecting a system which had been
the growth of circumstances; but his integrity is transparent, not less than his prepossessions.
Time will extract the sting of his disclosures; but their moral results will remain. They tended
to destroy those evils which can only live in a congenial atmosphere--and wither, except in
the shade.

The Reports of the Commissioner were published by order of the House of Commons in 1822: Macquarie
closed his official career on the 1st December, 1821, having held the government for twelve
years. Thus their labors and opinions came before the parliament and the world together. Macquarie,
when he considered himself entitled to reward, for a period of service of unusual length, found
it was necessary to defend his reputation. Betrayed by the warmth of his temper into some irregular
acts, which ill expressed the ordinary spirit of his government, he was vulnerable to his assailants.
The flogging of freed men, notwithstanding the precedents left by his predecessors; the scandalous
neglect of moral precautions, in the disposal of the women; and prominent instances of unjustifiable
lenity; constituted serious deductions from his merit. He was, however, exempted from pointed
censure, and the crown assigned £1,000 per annum, as his retiring pension. This favor was scarcely
conferred, when he was called before that Tribunal, where conduct and motives are seen together:
he died at St. James's, London, on the 1st January, 1824, and his remains were carried to the
Isle of Mull, North Britain; where, according to his last wish, they rest in the tomb of his
fathers.

General Macquarie is entitled to be regarded as the founder of these colonies: before his time,
they were but hutted camps. To their improvement he devoted all his energies: he foresaw and
felt the inspiration of their destined greatness. His disinterestedness was exemplary: throughout
his long administration, no sordid project was connected with his name. No patriot ever labored
more earnestly for his country's welfare. Every device, which seemed to promise material advancement
to the community, was certain of his favor; every contribution from the meanest settler, was
sure to obtain its reward.

But if he accepted neither gold nor silver, as the recompense of his cares, he took pledges
of the colonies for the immortality of his name. It resounds in every place, and is united
in every form with the natural objects and history of these regions. The name of his son, of
his wife, of his native mountains and early haunts--all flourish in this hemisphere: of these,
many were conferred by the flattery or kindness of his friends. Their frequent recurrence confuses
geography; they echo from hill to dale, and from the river to the sea.[137]

The moral character of Macquarie was not impeached. Happy in his domestic relationships, as
a husband and father he exhibited an example of fidelity and tenderness. The people quickly
learned this key to his regard, and he felt with all the gratitude of a generous nature, the
reverence paid to the virtues of his wife, and the interest affected for his son. Mrs. Macquarie
supported his efforts to reclaim the colonists from the habits of concubinage, which disgraced
their early history: she could not, without utter seclusion, enforce those social rules which
are proper in more settled society; but her sentiments were unequivocal, and hastened many
a marriage--and saved many escutcheons from a bar! Mrs. Macquarie survived her husband ten
years: she expired at Mull, in March, 1834.

The indifference to moral worth, ascribed to Macquarie, will admit another view. He estimated
too highly the agency of affluence, in raising the moral sentiments; but in promoting external
decency, it has considerable power. Macquarie was a soldier, and a man of the world: those
delicate springs, which set in motion the finer affections of the soul, are open to the Christian,
but are not found on the battle field, in the courts of law, or the seat of government. The
notions of this ruler were material: he believed that another generation would cast off the
habits of the passing, and abhor and forget the vices of their parents: nor was he mistaken.

The admitted political errors of Macquarie's government must be largely ascribed to his peculiar
position. When we scan the system he constructed or modified, justice requires that we should
consider, not only the materials he possessed, but the condition in which he found them. The
rebellion of the officers had destroyed their authority, the stores were exhausted, discipline
relaxed, and those who had exacted the most servile homage, were themselves dependant for impunity
on the royal clemency. He employed the discretion with which he was entrusted, to avert the
miseries of forfeiture; but he could not restore the relations between the bond and the free,
which revolt had shaken; or dispense with the counterpoise of emancipist support.

Many years elapsed, ere the re-action of his system attracted the attention of parliament;
until then, it was approved or tolerated by the crown. The pressure of a strong and united
party, what ministers have the courage to withstand? They were willing that the Governor should
bear the odium of measures, long subject to their cognizance, which they had passed by unreproved,
and sometimes even applauded. Macquarie thought he had gained a triumph, when he raised emancipists
to social distinction, and detained a mass of transgressors within the rules of obedience;
and, for a time, so thought the ministers. They desired to establish a city, out of the materials
of the gaol; but when they saw the success of their plans--half civic, half felonious--they
were terrified at their own creation, and wished the city had remained a prison. In this feeling,
Macquarie did not participate: he delighted in the result of his policy; and wondered at the
inexorable cruelty of those who grudged an asylum to their unfortunate countrymen--who attempted
to dash from their lips the liberty and hope they began to taste.

Whether it were possible, without a free community, to retain ten thousand persons in perpetual
vassalage, or to uphold a system of simple coercion and social exclusion, in a colony so remote,
remains a question; but it is none, that the name of Macquarie will become more illustrious,
as the traditions of faction subside, and classes are blended in the unity of a people. It
will be said that he found a garrison and a gaol, and left the deep and broad foundations of
an empire!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 97: The instructions to Macquarie (1809) were--grants at 6d. quit rent. Thirty acres
to an expiree, twenty for a wife, and ten each child.]

[Footnote 98: Collins's New South Wales.]

[Footnote 99: The Life of George Barrington, written by himself, a respectable volume in size
and typography, was published in 1810: nearly every paragraph is copied from Collins, the style
being first debased; and the colored sketches are a mere piracy from other volumes. It was
thought fair, by the ingenious booksellers to use the name of a popular pickpocket, rather
than one so little known as a Lieutenant-Governor. Of posthumous agency in thus picking the
pockets of the prigging race, George Barrington's memory must be acquitted.]

[Footnote 100: Life of Barrington.]

[Footnote 101: Tench.]

[Footnote 102: Heath: Par. Pap.]

[Footnote 103: Terry kept blank deeds ready at his public-house.--Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 104: "Eighteen years ago (1802), the period when I arrived in this colony, it was
lamentable to behold the excess to which drunkenness was carried.

This reference to the past was intended to contrast favorably with the present (1820), but
drunkenness was not greatly diminished: the bucket and pannikin still were in request at more
remote parts of the colonies, and their use was recommended as a "measure of police," to prevent
the drunkards from robbing each other. Poured into a bucket, none could be unfairly abstracted--all
shared alike; but had it not been so arranged, some rogue of the party would have removed some
bottles, when the rest were off their guard; and thus reserved for himself the pleasures of
intoxication, when the others were obliged, for lack of spirits, to be sober!]

[Footnote 105: Bigge, however, states, that Marsden himself was a trafficker in spirits, and
felt naturally opposed to the profuse competition he encountered; yet the reader will recollect
that this was the common article of barter--its use universal, in even the most correct society;
and that it was rather to the disorderly habits of the houses which vended it, than to its
consumption, that the most rigid moralists of the day would object.]

[Footnote 106: Letter to Lord Sidmouth.]

[Footnote 107: Surgeon-superintendent Reid's Voyages to New South Wales.]

[Footnote 108: Cunningham.

The following is a picture of things as they were:--"The madames on board, occupy the few days
which elapse before landing in preparing the most dazzling effect, on their descent upon the
Australian shore." "With rich silk dresses, bonnets a la mode, ear pendants, brooches long,
gorgeous shawls and splendid veils, silk stockings, kid gloves, and parasols in hand, dispensing
sweet odours from their profusely perfumed forms--they are assigned as servants. The settler
expected a servant, but receives a princess."--Mudie's Felonry.

This is doubtless the language of caricature; but the extravagant pretensions of many, could
be scarcely exaggerated.]

[Footnote 109: Bigge.]

[Footnote 110: Bigge.]

[Footnote 111: Bennet, p. 77.]

[Footnote 112: Phillip's Voyages, 1789.]

[Footnote 113: Macquarie's commission.]

[Footnote 114: Abstract of the Emigrant and Emancipist Population in the year 1820, with a
schedule of Property belonging to them: compiled from the statements of the Emancipists.

--------------------------------+----------------+-------------+
1820.                           | Emancipists.   |  Emigrants  |
--------------------------------+----------------+-------------+
POPULATION--                    |                |             |
Adults                          |       7,556    |     1158    |
Children                        |       5,859    |      878    |
                                |----------------+-------------+
                                |      13,415    |    2,436    |
                                |       2,436    |=============|
                                |----------------+             |
Excess of Emancipists           |      10,979    |             |
                                |================|             |
PROPERTY--                      |                |             |
Acres in cultivation            |      29,023    |   10,737    |
Ditto in pasture                |     212,335    |  198,369    |
Houses in towns                 |       1,200    |      300    |
Cattle                          |      42,988    |   28,582    |
Sheep                           |     174,179    |    8,739    |
Horses                          |       2,415    |    1,553    |
Swine                           |      18,563    |    6,804    |
Vessels                         |          15    |        8    |
Capital in trade                |    £150,000    | £100,000    |
                                |================|=============|
Total estimated Property        |  £1,123,600    | £526,136    |
                                |     526,136    |=============|
                                +----------------+             |
Excess in favor of Emancipists: |  £597,464      |             |
    rather more than as 2 to 1] |================|             |
                                |                |             |
--------------------------------+----------------+-------------+

[Footnote 115: "Now, in matters of opinion, man is like a pig: if you force him on he retrogrades.
If you are really serious in attaining a point, make him believe the reverse is your object
in view. Governor Macquarie, finding a number of demurrers to his opinion, instead of coaxing
them into his views, looked upon them as his personal enemies, and often treated them as such."--Cunningham,
vol. ii. p. 112.]

[Footnote 116: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 117: Ibid.]

[Footnote 118: Mr. Hall, a free immigrant editor, addressed a meeting of emancipists (1822),
and regretted he was not one of their number!--his sincere regret that he was not an emancipist!
This, it must be recollected, was after dinner.]

[Footnote 119: Wentworth, 2nd edit.]

[Footnote 120: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 121: When addressing the Secretary of State, Macquarie observes--"In my opinion (speaking
of the voluntary settlers), they should consider they are coming to a convict country, and
if they are too proud or too delicate in their feelings to associate with the population of
this country, they should consider in time, and bend their course to some other country, in
which prejudices in this respect would meet with no opposition. No country in the world has
been so advantageous to adventurers as New South Wales: the free settlers, coming out as such,
have never felt their dignity hurt by trading with convicts, even when they were such." Again--"It
has been my invariable opinion, that a freeman, by pardon or emancipation, should be in all
respects considered on a footing with every other man in the colony, according to his rank
in life and character; in short, that no retrospect should, in any case, be had to his ever
having been otherwise."--Letter to Earl Bathurst, 1813.]

[Footnote 122: Reid's Voyage.]

[Footnote 123: This was afterwards prevented.]

[Footnote 124: Macarthur's Present State.]

[Footnote 125: "Men are governed by words: under the infamous term convict, are comprehended
offenders of the most different degrees and species of guilt. One man is transported for stealing
three hams and a pot of sausages; in the next berth to him, is a young surgeon engaged in mutiny
at the Nore; another, was so ill read in history, as to imagine that Ireland was ill-treated,
and too bad a reasoner to suppose that nine catholics ought not to pay tithes to one protestant.
Then comes a man who set his house on fire; another, the most glaring of all human villains,
a poacher; driven from Europe, wife and child, by thirty lords of the manor, for killing a
partridge. Now, all these are crimes, no doubt; but surely to which attach different degrees
of contempt and horror. A warrant granted by a reformed bacon stealer would be absurd; but
a hot brained young blockhead, who chose to favor the mutiny at the Nore, may, when he is forty
years of age, and has cast his jacobin teeth, make a useful magistrate and loyal subject.

The most inflexible were some of the regiments stationed at Botany Bay--men, of course, who
had uniformly shunned the society of gamesters, prostitutes, and drunkards; who had ruined
no tailors, corrupted no wives, and had entitled themselves, by a long course of solemnity
and decorum, to indulge in all the insolence of purity and virtue."--Rev. S. Smith, 1823.]

[Footnote 126: Doe, on demise of Jenkins, v. Pearce and wife.]

[Footnote 127: 1814: 54 Geo. iii, took away the corruption of blood, from children born after
conviction, except in case of treason and murder.--Sydney Gazette, 1818.]

[Footnote 128: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 129: Collins's New South Wales.]

[Footnote 130: Acts.]

[Footnote 131: 4 Geo. iv.]

[Footnote 132: Mr. Wentworth states the trials in the criminal court in 1806, as 117, in 1817,
at 92; but then he asserts, that offences had increased, subject to summary jurisdiction, from
300 to 1,000, while the population (20,000) had only doubled. He was not, however, ignorant,
that many of those offences were not such in law or morals, but merely violations of local
regulations (Wentworth, 2nd edit.). The colonial convictions were, with few exceptions, of
persons who had been transported before: of 116 persons for trial at Hobart (1821), 79 were
then under sentence, and 37 expirees--the entire number.--Bigge.]

[Footnote 133: "With regard to character and respectability allow me to observe briefly, that
while some are in general well-conducted persons, little that is praiseworthy can be advanced:
there is not much religion among the best, and the far greater part have not the appearance
of it."--Rev. Mr. Cowper, 1820.]

[Footnote 134: Edinburgh Review, 1803.]

[Footnote 135: "His sentences are not only more severe than those of other magistrates, but
the general opinion of the colony is, that his character, as displayed in the administration
of the penal law in New South Wales, is stamped with severity."--Bigge's Report.

Such was the idea of the people on the spot; but Mr. Wilberforce observed, in the House of
Commons, he was--"a man who acquired the admiration of all who knew his merits; a man who shone
as a bright example to the moral world--who deserved the title of a moral hero: who had overcome
difficulties for the amelioration of his species, in the most unfavorable circumstances; which
would always endear his name to the friends of humanity."--Wentworth, 3rd edit.]

[Footnote 136: "For my part, my only wonder is, that Mr. Redfern did not apply some degrading
chastisement to the nose or breech of this cowardly Commissioner."--Wentworth, 3rd edit.]

[Footnote 137: Henderson, 1832.]

SECTION IX.

The duty of the Commissioner being discharged, it devolved on the home government to gather,
from the mass of facts he accumulated, those which discovered abuses remediable, and to select
for adoption the recommendations of their chosen councillor. The changes he advised amounted
to a total revolution in the system, subject to his censorship; but so obstinate are evils,
fostered by local interest and lengthened indulgence, that years elapsed before the effects
of his influence were powerfully realised. He, however, secured for the exclusionists the recognition
of their favorite principle, and not only were emancipists pronounced ineligible for the future,
but those already in the commission found it expedient to resign. Mr. Redfern was dismissed.

This determination of the imperial authorities, by whatever reasons supported, was a deviation
from a practice which covered the entire period of Macquarie's government; therefore sanctioned,
expressly, or by the silence of the crown. The degradation of those on the bench, could not
have been politically important, and was one of those acts of power, which rather gratify the
vengeance of caste, than vindicate the purity of government. The mortification of the emancipists,
at this triumph, was intense: they justly felt, that the ministers, and not they, were responsible
for measures which had recognised their eligibility to the usual honors of colonial opulence;
and that, even were it expedient to abandon the former system, a less violent process might
have been discovered.

It may not be amiss to describe the career of an emancipist, of whose elevation Mr. Bigge remarks,
"that it had been most strongly urged against Macquarie by his enemies, and most questioned
by his friends." This case (1810) formed the precedent for appointments from persons of his
class, and, as selected by Mr. Bigge, may be considered a specimen of the most objectionable.
The facts of the Commissioner are all here embodied; his detracting tone is abated.

Andrew Thomson was a native of Scotland: his relations of that class of traders, in their own
country called merchants; who carry their goods from town to town. He was sixteen years of
age on his arrival in the colony, and therefore, a boy of fourteen or fifteen when he forfeited
his liberty. When free, he engaged in business as a retail shopkeeper, and traded to Sydney
in boats built by himself: the defects of his education he partly cured by application, and
acquired such knowledge as ordinary retail shopkeepers possess. He established a salt manufactory,
a ship-building establishment, and it was rumoured, an illicit distillery. He was chief constable:
kept a public-house--such was the common practice of traders. He acquired great influence among
the settlers, by his forbearance and liberal credits; his business extended, and he became
a considerable landholder. He supported the legal authority during the rebellion, and suffered
for his loyalty; a just ground for the esteem of that Governor, who came to restore the authority
of his sovereign. When an inundation of the Hawkesbury exposed the settlers to great suffering,
he undertook their relief; supplied them with goods, and was happily a gainer by the risk which
his humanity induced him to incur: so great was the importance of prompt exertions, he was
permitted to employ both the men and boats, which were under his control as superintendent
of convicts.

In his neighbourhood, there were but two persons suitable to the office of magistrate, and
having filled that of chief constable with great approbation, the Governor, Macquarie, considering
his youth at the time of his offence--the merit of his loyalty when few were loyal--his industry
and opulence, and his reputation for humanity--did not think his former condition a bar to
a commission of the peace. It is said that Lieut. Bell, who conducted the party by whom the
government-house was surprised, and a Governor made prisoner, objected to his appointment;
but his opposition was confined to murmurs, or if represented at home met with no sympathy
from the ministers.

Mr. Thomson was admitted to the company of the Governor, and the parties of the military, who
yet, it is said, were not pleased with the abrupt suppression of the absolute ban. He died
within the year of his elevation to the bench. Governor Macquarie commanded an epitaph to be
placed on his tomb, stating that "it was in consequence of his character and conduct, that
he appointed him to the magistracy; and that, by the same act, he restored him to the rank
in society he had lost." His death was regretted by his neighbours, who in a public address
to his Excellency described him "as their common friend and patron." It must be added, he had
participated in some of those immoralities, which, in the time of the Prince Regent, dishonored
the residence of kings; and he escaped that just reproach which could not be expected where
the selection of mistresses was the prerogative of military command. Such is a fair statement
of Andrew Thomson's character, as given by Bigge, without his reflections.

The disclosures of the Commissioner terminated the indulgences given to expirees, with such
"unsatisfactory results." The small portion of land granted them, without great industry, was
incapable of supplying their wants, and they were the pests of their neighbours; or, when they
settled on allotments in town, they obtained materials from the royal stores by the assistance
of their fellows.[138] Land was still granted, but not as the indispensable consequence of
transportation.

The plan of recompense to officers in kind, he also condemned: rations of food and rum, double
and triple; and the assignment of men to earn wages, as the salaries of their masters, were
gradually substituted by payments in money. The small sums formerly allowed, were rather the
wages of servants who live on their fees: by a casuistry, never long wanting to those who earnestly
seek it, even men beyond the rank of overseers, persuaded themselves that the recognised stipends
were never intended to be reckoned as payment.[139] The tender of these supplies was a source
of profit to the officers; like the butlers of noblemen, persons of the highest trust were
not insensible to presents; and merchandise was accepted only when the "regulars" were duly
paid. The waste of public property, occasioned by the system, was great. The loss and sacrifice
of clothing and tools; the spoiling of food, and the wilful destruction of implements, proved
how large may be the outlay of the crown, without much advantage to a colony. Years were required
to reduce these evils; some of which are yet not unknown.

These were, however, small changes, compared with the total revolution in the spirit and details
of convict management, suggested by the Commissioner. All those signs of advancement which
he saw in the material state of the colonies, in connection with the objects of transportation,
were anomalies in his eyes. He observed, that the prisoners were always anxious to reside in
the towns, where they obtained, by casual labor, the price and opportunities of dissipation.
By a peremptory exercise of his authority, Mr. Bigge stopped some of the public works, and
promoted the dispersion of those multitudes who were employed in the improvement of the capital.

The Commissioner, strongly impressed with the mischief incident to the congregation of prisoners
in the presence of a free community, proposed several remedies. Among the most important was
the establishment of settlements, purely penal, at Port Curtis, Moreton Bay, and Port Bowen.
These places were explored by Mr. Oxley, the surveyor-general of the colonies. Moreton Bay
is situated 480 miles from Port Jackson: this region, watered by the Brisbane, unequalled for
climate and soil in any part of the globe of the same latitude; adorned with trees of magnificent
growth,[140] had nothing in its natural features to repel. Though the days are warm in summer
(80° to 100°), the nights are cool, and for several months fires are agreeable. Bananas, plantains,
and pines--cotton, tobacco, maize, the sugar cane, and all the ordinary productions of a tropical
climate, are cultivated with success. The atmosphere is soft and salubrious: of 1,200 persons,
afterwards stationed there, sometimes not more than ten were sick at once; and during seven
years, one soldier only died.[141]

Such was the site chosen by Mr. Bigge; but he endeavoured to render it suitable, by suggesting
a code of regulations, in which may be discovered the outline of several schemes, since claiming
originality. It was intended for those convicted of serious crimes, or such as committed offences
in the colonies. The prisoners, two together, were to build their own huts; their sole implement
the hatchet, and their material wood and nails: their only furniture, stools and bedding. Their
labor graduated; from removing heavy weights, and sawing the hardest timber, to the easy occupation
of the gardener, according to their behaviour or their crimes. They were to raise their own
provisions, and the produce of their tillage for the crown, was to be sold in the colonies,
and carried to the public account; except a sixteenth part, the moiety of which was to be paid
to the commandant, and the rest proportionately to the overseers. No vessel, unauthorised,
was to touch at the port: every precaution was projected to prevent escape, and the natives
were expected to bring back, for rewards, such as might venture to stray. Every crime, short
of murder, was to be punished on the spot. No spirits were to be sold; no money circulated;
no private speculations in produce permitted. The wives of prisoners, when suffered to join
them, were to sacrifice all but the necessaries of life. From the chief settlement others were
to branch off; fifteen miles distant from each other. A church, a school, a library, were to
promote the reformation of the prisoners--an object to be considered paramount to every other.
Such were the plans for a City of Penitence, projected by Bigge; and by which he expected,
in several directions, to dispose of 4,000 prisoners.

It was his hope, that their labor would discharge the chief cost of their control, and end
the mockery, and the inequalities of punishment.

Before the arrival of the Commissioner, penal establishments existed, and prisoners were sequestered
for violations of local regulations; or on extensive farms, where grain was grown for the royal
stores. At Newcastle, on the Hunter River, were coal mines (1818), where those under colonial
sentences, or those guilty of experience in mining, were subjected to a more rigorous servitude.
By an onward progress of the settlers, this station was less adapted for its purpose, and (1821)
a second was provided at Port Macquarie, 175 miles north of Port Jackson. The increase of population
soon rendered a further movement requisite: it was not, however, until 1824, that Surveyor-general
Oxley completed his report of Moreton Bay: pioneers were forwarded, and at length 1,000 prisoners
were employed in that remote region. The plan thus narrowed, only partially succeeded, and
the numbers at last dwindled to 300 men: the Commissioner's idea, therefore, was never fairly
tested. An organisation of several thousands in a city of penitence; under a discipline, which,
while excluding the worst temptations of regular society, might preserve many of its elementary
forms; managed by permanent officers, in number and gradation, sufficient to form and preserve
the tone of a profession--is unfortunately still a speculation: nor is it yet safe to assume,
that the failure of stations, exhibiting several features of the Commissioner's scheme, but
excluding others not less important, is a conclusive argument against the original design.[142]

In this colony, a penal station was projected during the residence of Bigge. While he approved
the object, he did not cordially concur in the selected locality: he remarked several of those
obstacles to access, which were not compensated by the difficulties of escape. The punishment
of colonial offences, when persons were already in bonds, was attended with some difficulty;
the law not authorising additions to a sentence, except by a court of criminal jurisdiction,
regulated by the forms, and bounded by the limitations of English statutes. To punish a misdemeanour,
and sometimes even capital offences, the culprit was brought before a justice of the peace,
and sent to a penal settlement for the remainder of his sentence. Thus a widely different penalty
attended the different parties to the same crime: one would scarcely touch the place of his
second exile, before the termination of his British sentence restored him to full freedom;
another, perhaps a prisoner for life, would linger out his wretched existence in the place
of his seclusion, forgotten.[143]

The name of Macquarie Harbour is associated exclusively with remembrance of inexpressible depravity,
degradation, and woe. Sacred to the genius of torture, nature concurred with the objects of
its separation from the rest of the world; to exhibit some notion of a perfect misery. There,
man lost the aspect, and the heart of man!

Macquarie Harbour was explored by Captain Kelly, at the expense of a merchant whose name is
borne by Birch's River, and that of his wife by Sarah Island. It is an inlet of the sea, on
the western coast: by water, about 200 miles from Hobart Town. It penetrates the country twenty
miles to its junction with Gordon River, where, diverging to the right, Sarah Island becomes
visible--once the principal station, now deserted and desolate. This region is lashed with
tempests; the sky is cloudy, and the rain falls more frequently than elsewhere. In its chill
and humid climate animal life is preserved with difficulty: half the goats died in one season,
and sheep perish: vegetation, except in its coarsest or most massive forms, is stunted and
precarious. The torrents, which pour down the mountains, mingle with decayed vegetable matter,
and impregnated with its acids discolour the waters of the harbour; and the fish that approach
the coast, often rise on the waves, and float poisoned to the shores.[144]

The passage to this dreary dwelling place was tedious, and often dangerous. The prisoners,
confined in a narrow space, were tossed for weeks on an agitated sea. As they approached, they
beheld a narrow opening choked with a bar of sand, and crossed with peril.[145] This they called
"Hell's gates,"--not less appropriate to the place, than to the character and torment of the
inhabitants: beyond, they saw impenetrable forests, skirted with an impervious thicket; and
beyond still, enormous mountains covered with snow, which rose to the clouds like walls of
adamant: every object wore the air of rigour, ferocity, and sadness.

The moment the prisoner landed, if the hours of labor had not expired, he joined his gang.
The chief employment was felling the forest, and dragging timber to the shore: these gigantic
trees, formed into rafts, were floated to the depôt. In this service, life was sometimes lost;
and the miserable workmen, diseased and weakened by hunger, while performing their tasks, often
passed hours in the water. They were long denied vegetables and fresh food: they were exposed
to those maladies which result from poverty of blood, and many remained victims long after
their release. On a breakfast of flour and water, they started from their island prison to
the main land, and pursued their toil, without food, till the hour of return: they then received
their chief meal, and went to rest. Those who were separated to punishment still more severe,
lodged on a rock: the surf dashed with perpetual violence on its base, and the men were compelled
to pass through, wet to the waist, and even to the neck. They were destitute of bedding, sometimes
in chains; their fires were extinguished, and they laid down in their clothes, in a cold and
miserable resting place.[146]

They were subject to a single will; moved often by perjury, and sometimes by passion. One man,
Alexander Anderson, a convict overseer,[147] delighted in human suffering--this was his qualification
for office; yet seventeen persons have been flogged in one day, at his single report. The instrument
of torture was special; double twisted and knotted cords: 100 lashes were given, and repeated
at short intervals. Even to repine was criminal: an expression of anger from the sufferer,
was a punishable offence: a second infliction has been known to follow, by a sentence on the
spot.[148]

The alleviations of religious instruction were unknown. The commandant was found, by the earliest
clerical visitor, living in profligacy, and he returned at once, despairing.[149] Women were,
at first, sent there, and four were dispatched to gather shells, under the charge of one man,
in whose hut they lodged. The forms of devotion depended on the surgeon, and were detested
by the prisoners. They were, mostly, desperate men, and required a strong restraint; some were
there, however, for offences of no deep die, who, while the least spark of humanity remained,
felt the association more horrible than the place. To escape this dread abode, they gambled
for life; and, with the deliberation of actors, divided the parts of a meditated murder, and
sinister testimony. They loathed existence, and were willing to shorten its duration, if the
excitement of a voyage and a trial might precede the execution. It was their proverb, that
all who entered there, gave up for ever the hope of Heaven.[150] Death lost its terrors, and
when some unhappy victims were brought down to terrify the rest, they saw them die as many
see friends depart on a desirable but distant journey.[151] Some were detained for years by
a succession of punishments; perhaps, for the possession of a fish-hook, of a potato, or an
inch of tobacco. Some were flogged; until this species of punishment lost, not only its terror,
but its power: the remnant of the understanding settled down into one single faculty--the ability
to endure. It will be our painful task to turn to the results of this experiment, since elsewhere
repeated, of what nations can inflict, and man can suffer: excusable, had the Rhadamanthus
of those regions been always just, and those subject to his lash always the worst of criminals.[152]

The improvement of the assigned service, by raising the qualifications of the masters, and
increasing the dependance of the men, was another great project of the Commissioner. There
were, indeed, no employers, except those who had been convicts, or officers of government;
and the first and larger class, possessed neither capital nor discretion. They were rather
patrons than masters. There were but two changes practicable: the vast establishments projected
at Moreton Bay, and introduction of a class of settlers, who might exercise the authority requisite
to restrain the vagrant indolence of the men; and whose capital might give them constant employment
and proper sustenance. Several military settlers, such as Macarthur, had large establishments,
chiefly for cattle and sheep; and their management exemplified the superior facilities of control,
where the men were both dispersed and guarded--divided in their occupations, but subject to
a vigilant supervision.

It was the opinion of the Commissioner that none, having small estates and trivial resources,
should be placed in the responsible position of masters; but that the inducements offered in
former times should be renewed and extended. He calculated, that the employers of convict laborers,
for each, relieved the treasury of England to the extent of £24 10s. per annum. Thus every
consideration commended the system of assignment beyond any other. To attract the attention
of settlers, he advised that the emigrant should be entitled to a grant, to purchase an addition
at a low price, and to receive a bonus in land, for the stock he might rear, or according to
the industry and skill he might otherwise exhibit.

It has been stated, that the ministers who founded these colonies, intended that free emigration
should accompany transportation with equal steps. The despatches of Governor Phillip, addressed
to the secretary of state[153] in 1790, proved that he felt the want, and perceived the value,
of such auxiliaries; but the early determination to raise expirees to the condition of landholders,
seems to imply the form the settlement at Port Jackson was expected to assume. It is obvious
that the immediate design of the Governor, was to provide such free settlers, as might act
in different official capacities, at little or no expense.[154] The reply to these communications
was favorable, and the prospect of emigration cheering; but the result was insignificant. It
is stated by Collins, that several families, members of the Society of Friends, proposed to
accept the offers of government, but were deterred by the reputation of the colony, and the
disorders which prevailed.[155]

The Bellona at length arrived, with free settlers and their families, including a millwright
and blacksmith; one of whom had been already in the colony, under other auspices! An authority
to the Governor was now conveyed, to establish such persons as were eligible on terms highly
advantageous. They chose a fertile spot, and to mark their civil condition, called their locations
"Liberty Plains" (February, 1793). The British government provided their passage, an assortment
of tools and implements, provisions for two years; their lands free of expense; and the service
of convicts, with two years' rations and one year's clothing. It is difficult to imagine a
more alluring offer; yet, except a Dorsetshire farmer, the rest were not bona fide settlers:
two formerly belonged to the Sirius, and a third to the Lady Juliana transport; in short, they
were sailors. Concluding, then, the secretary of state had sought settlers in earnest, the
presumption is strong that no considerable number of persons could be found to engage in such
an enterprise: one which seemed to comprehend all the perils of distance, of official tyranny,
and of social corruption.[156]

The additions, thus made to the free population, were generally of persons connected with the
merchant service or the military profession; and who, by a residence intended only to be temporary
and official, contracted a preference for the climate; where they found great respect and deference,
by the paucity of their numbers. It was their example which finally overcame the reluctance
to settle, which no mere offers of the crown were sufficient to conquer.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 138: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 139: Colonial Fund (1820): Quarter's salary, A. P. Humphrey, superintendent, £25;
government printer, £7 10s.; Mr. Fitzgerald, schoolmaster, £6 5s.; G. Northam, chaplain's clerk,
£3 5s.; James Charlton, executioner, £6 5s.!]

[Footnote 140: "Report of Oxley."--Barrow Field's Collection.]

[Footnote 141: Breton's New South Wales.]

[Footnote 142: The following "Instructions" were laid before parliament: being a return to
an address to his Majesty, dated 2nd February, 1832; they were, however, only partially acted
upon:--

"Copy of Instructions issued by the Governor of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land, for
the Regulation of Penal Settlements.

"As an aversion to honest industry and labor has been the chief cause of most of the convicts
incurring the penalties of the law, they shall be employed at some species of labor, of an
uniform kind, which they cannot evade, and by which they will have an opportunity of becoming
habituated to regular employment.

"With this view, all labor of a complex nature, the quantity of which cannot be easily determined,
is to be studiously avoided: and the convicts are to be employed exclusively in agricultural
operations, when the public buildings or other works of the settlement do not absolutely require
their labor.

"In these operations the use of the hoe and spade shall be as much as possible adopted; and
where the number of men who can be employed in agriculture is sufficient to raise food for
the settlement with these implements, the use of the plough shall be given up; and no working
cattle are to be employed in operations which can be effected by men and hand carts.

"The principle of dividing the workmen at regular distances from each other, as established
for field labor, is also to be adopted whenever it is found applicable; and with the view of
affording a more complete and effective superintendence, the different gangs are, as much as
possible, to be employed in one place.

"When it becomes necessary to employ mechanics or tradesmen in their respective callings, such
arrangements shall be made (by appointing as many as possible to the work) as will insure their
strict superintendence, and a speedy return to the employment of common laborers.

"In order that the convicts may be deprived of all opportunities of procuring spirits, or any
luxury or article beyond the government allowance, and with the view the more effectually to
prevent their escape, it becomes necessary to establish the strictest regulations with regard
to shipping.

"The commandant is vested with the control of every department on the settlement; every person,
whether free or bond, being subject to his orders.

"No officer, or other free person, employed at the penal settlement, shall be permitted to
derive any advantage from his situation, either directly or indirectly, beyond the amount of
his salary and fixed allowances. Each individual will be required to furnish quarterly, a declaration
upon honor to this effect, to the commandant, who will certify that the whole of the officers
borne upon the salary abstract, have furnished the same.

"No officer, or other free person, shall be allowed to cultivate any ground on his own account,
excepting for the purpose of a garden, for the exclusive supply of his own family.

"No officer shall be allowed to raise stock of any description for sale, or for any other purpose
than the immediate use of his own family; such stock to consist exclusively of pigs and poultry,
which shall be secured within the premises of the proprietor.

"No officer, or other person, shall be allowed to employ any convict at any time whatever for
his personal advantage, or otherwise than on the public account, excepting always such men
as may be appropriated to his service.

"No officer, or other free person, is on any account to leave the settlement, without the written
sanction of the commandant.

"The commandant is vested with full authority to remove, at his discretion, any free person
from the settlement, whose conduct shall appear to him to render this proceeding necessary
for the due maintenance of discipline.

"The officers, and other free persons, shall be allowed to purchase grain from the public stores,
to maintain the livestock they are permitted to keep, according to the following scale:--

"Commandant, not to exceed five bushels per month; civil and military officers, three bushels
per month; inferior free persons, one bushel per month.

"To enable the officers of the settlement to cultivate their gardens, they shall be allowed
to have convicts appropriated to their service in the following proportion:--

"Commandant, three men; military and civil officers, two ditto.

"These men are not to be mechanics or tradesmen, and are to be allowed in addition to any servants
they may have been permitted to take with them to the settlement.

"When work is required to be done by the mechanics for the absolute comfort and convenience
of any of the officers on the settlement, the following regulations shall be observed:--

"The officer to make a written requisition, which will, if approved by the commandant, be given
to the overseer of the mechanics, who will receive the whole of the materials from the officer.
The work to be performed in the lumber-yard during government hours.

"No remuneration of any kind is to be given the mechanic for his services. This indulgence
is not to extend to any article of furniture, or any thing else that can be dispensed with,
or procured in any other manner. A separate book is to be kept, and entries made of the work
so done, and quarterly returns sent to the colonial secretary. It must be understood that no
government materials, even of the most trifling nature, will be allowed for any such purpose.

"All trafficking and trading between the free and bond on the settlement, shall be strictly
prohibited, and severely punished.

"The convicts under colonial sentence, shall be steadily and constantly employed at hard labor
from sunrise till sunset, one hour being allowed for breakfast, and one hour for dinner, during
the winter six months; but two hours will be allotted for dinner during the summer.

"The convicts shall be worked in field labor, with the hoe and spade, in gangs, not fewer than
fifteen or more than twenty. No task work shall be allowed.

"There shall be an overseer attached to each gang, and to every five gangs a constable, who
shall assist the overseers in the superintendence of the men.

"The constables and overseers, are not to push or strike the convicts, and no punishment is
to be inflicted but by the express orders of the commandant.

"If a convict should have any thing to represent or complain of to the commandant, it shall
be the duty of the constable to bring him before him.

"No prisoner is to be permitted to receive, or to procure, any article of luxury, or any addition
to the established ration of the settlement.

"As a reward of and encouragement to good conduct, the prisoners shall be divided into two
classes, to be called the first and second classes respectively.

"No prisoner is to be admitted into the first class, who shall not have served on the settlement
for two years, if a prisoner for seven years; for four years, if for fourteen years; and for
six years, if for life. But convicts, who have been respited from a capital sentence, shall
in no case be admitted into this class until, upon the representation of the commandant, their
sentence shall have been mitigated by the governor.

"The commandant will make a monthly return to the colonial secretary of the prisoners, whose
conduct has induced him to admit them to the first class, and he will inform the officer of
the commissariat officially.

"The prisoners in the first class will receive, in addition to the usual ration, one ounce
of tobacco weekly.

"The prisoners of the first class are to be employed in the lighter and least laborious operations;
and it is from this class exclusively that men are eligible to be selected for constables and
overseers, to be employed as clerks, to be assigned as servants to the officers of the settlement,
and to be entrusted with the charge of the live stock or working cattle, or with any other
light employment.

"No convict shall be employed as a clerk in the commandant's office, or have access to any
of the records kept there.

"No prisoner transported for life, or for any heinous or atrocious offence, shall be employed
in any other way than as a common laborer, except, being a mechanic, his services may be urgently
required. In this case the commandant will permit his being temporarily employed in his trade,
or on any of the public works.

"Prisoners of the first class, who shall be selected by the commandant for constables or overseers,
will be allowed the usual distinction of dress, and shall receive in addition to their rations,
two pounds of flour per week, and one ounce of tobacco; but in no case shall any convict at
a penal settlement be allowed to receive a pecuniary reward.

"As a further encouragement to constables and overseers to be faithful and diligent in the
discharge of their duty, two years' service as a constable or overseer, shall be considered
equivalent to three years' servitude on the settlement; but in case of misconduct, they shall
forfeit all such benefit arising from their services as constables or overseers.

"As there may be found some individuals whose conduct may be deserving of reward, but who nevertheless
may not be qualified to fill the situation of overseers, the commandant will transmit annually
to the colonial secretary, a return of the names of such convicts who, having served two-thirds
of the period of their sentence, may by a long continuance of good conduct, be considered to
merit indulgence. To this return there shall be annexed a detailed statement of the circumstances
which have induced the commandant to recommend the individuals respectively.

"A return will in like manner be transmitted by the commandant, of any prisoners under sentence
for life, who shall have conducted themselves to his entire satisfaction for six years (or
of capital respites for ten years) after their arrival in the settlement, annexing, as before,
a detailed statement of the circumstances which have induced him to recommend the individuals
respectively; and should the governor be satisfied that they are deserving of reward, his excellency
will mitigate their sentence to that of seven or fourteen years, from the date of such mitigation;
after which the individuals will, of course, be eligible to all the privileges of prisoners
of the first class.

"The wife of a convict shall, in no case, be allowed to join her husband, until he shall have
been placed in the first class, and the commandant shall have recommended him for this indulgence.

"The wives and children of convicts shall be allowed rations and slop clothing from the public
stores.

"The wives and children of convicts are not to be allowed to convey money or property of any
kind to the settlement, nor to possess any live stock or poultry, and they are strictly to
be prohibited from carrying on any trade or traffic in the settlement; but they will be furnished
with employment in spinning flax, making straw hats or bonnets, making up slops, and such other
work as they may be capable of performing, the materials for which will be supplied from the
government store. They will receive credit in the books of the settlement, at the market or
factory prices, on such work being returned to the stores; and the amount of their earnings
will be annually placed in the savings bank, to be received by them on their return from the
settlement, as a means of support on their arrival.

"Married convicts, whose families have been permitted to join them, shall be allowed to live
in separate huts.

"A portion of ground shall be allotted as a prisoners' garden, the extent of which shall be
determined by the commandant.

"If any money or property shall be found in possession of a convict, or the family of a convict,
it shall be seized and forfeited to the Benevolent Asylum.

"The labor of all convicts, excepting only those assigned to the officers, shall be wholly
and exclusively applied to the service of the settlement generally, and the indulgence of working
on their own account, after the usual hours of public labor, shall be strictly prohibited.

"No convict shall be allowed to wear any other clothing than that which is issued to him by
the government; and the number of each convict on the settlement is to be painted on each article
of his dress, before and behind.

"The commandant will see that due attention is paid to the cleanliness of the convicts, and
that those whose state of health admit of it, bathe regularly.

"A separate barrack is to be provided for the female convicts; and if employed in field labor,
they are to be kept separate from the men.

"A washing gang from among the female convicts shall be appointed, to wash and mend the clothes,
and air the blankets and palliasses of the prisoners.

"The convicts are not to be allowed to possess knives or any sharp instruments; the knives,
forks, and spoons, are to be under the charge of the barrack overseer, and he will be held
responsible that they are duly collected from each convict before he is allowed to quit his
seat at the mess table. This, however, is not to apply to those married convicts or overseers,
who shall have been allowed to live in separate huts.

"The whole of the convicts will be mustered on Sunday morning, arranged in their several gangs,
and attended by their respective overseers and constables, when they will be inspected by the
commandant. The wives and families of the convicts will also be required to attend the Sunday
morning musters.

"The prisoners will be mustered daily by the superintendent of convicts, at sunrise, before
they proceed to labor, when they return to meals, and again when the work for the day is closed.

"No convict shall be allowed to receive or transmit any letter, excepting through the commandant,
who is to exercise his discretion in opening such letters, and perusing their contents.

"The section regulating the discipline and employment of the convicts, is to be read once in
every month to the troops and convicts on the settlement.

"These regulations shall be entered in the public order books of the settlement, and they are
to be strictly and literally adhered to throughout; no deviation being permitted, except in
cases of very great emergency, which are to be determined alone by the commandant, who will
immediately report in detail his reasons for such deviation to the governor, in order that
his excellency's sanction to the measure may be obtained."]

[Footnote 143: "The crimes for which they were sent down, were originally trifling: five or
six for a robbery, petty theft, or disobedience to orders. One remained for a month, another
for the term of his natural life,--for the same offence, and by the same sentence."--Barnes:
Par. Pap.

"Bryan Taylor, a convict holding a ticket-of-leave, having taken the Lord's name in vain, was
ordered to be confined in his majesty's gaol for one week.

"Thomas Higgins, a constable, was found guilty of a rape, and was sentenced to be dismissed
from his office, and transported for the remainder of his original term.

"Ralph Jacobs, found guilty of stealing one sheep; sentenced to receive fifty lashes, and to
be returned to government.

"William Blunt, and another, for burglary and violence; sentenced one hundred lashes, and transported
for their original term."--Gazette, Dec. 1821.]

[Footnote 144: Ross's Almanack, 1831.]

[Footnote 145: "The sight was awfully grand. The pilot commanded all below, but I said I should
like to see the end of it: they counted off eleven feet; we drew seven and a half: there were
but seven in the hollow of the sea! At this moment a large billow carried us forward on its
raging head. The pilot's countenance relaxed: he looked like a man reprieved under the gallows."--Backhouse's
Narrative.]

[Footnote 146: Barnes: Par. Pap., 1837.]

[Footnote 147: Ibid.]

[Footnote 148: Tasmanian Journal, vol. ii. p. 205.]

[Footnote 149: Backhouse's Narrative.]

[Footnote 150: Ibid.]

[Footnote 151: They called to the men, as they ascended the scaffold--"Good-by, Bob; good-by,
Jack."--Par.

Paradise Lost, book ii.]

[Footnote 153: Sydney Cove, 17th July, 1790.

"The consequence of a failure of a crop, when we no longer depend upon any supplies from Great
Britain, will be obvious; and to guard against which is one reason for my being so desirous
of having a few settlers, to whom, as the first, I think every possible encouragement should
be given. In them I should have some resource, and amongst them proper people might be found
to act in different capacities, at little or no expense to government; for, as the number of
convicts and others increase, civil magistrates, &c. will be necessary."]

[Footnote 154: Par. Papers, 1792; quoted by Saxe Bannister, Esq.]

[Footnote 155: Besides the reference in Collins, several modern writers have alluded to this
fact; but in conversation with Mr. G. W. Walker, the author has been given to understand, that
neither he nor his colleague, Mr. Backhouse, ever heard of this projected emigration. The correspondence
upon the subject would probably disclose more clearly the ultimate views of the imperial government.
Dr. Laing assigns, for the relinquishment of the project, a refusal to extend the laws of England
to the settlement,--but gives no authority.]

SECTION X.

The spirit of the Commissioner's propositions was embodied by the home government, and its
offers were published in various forms; chiefly, indeed, by the diligence of adventurers who,
to freight their ships, filled volumes, and depicted in lively colors the beauty of the colonies.
The intending settler was told, that not only would he find cheap land and cheap labor, but
a large return for his produce.

By the grants of Sir Thomas Brisbane, bonds were required to be given for the support and employment
of prisoners, until their detention expired--calculated at the average term of ten years. For
every hundred acres, the settler engaged to provide one convict with food and clothing, in
return for his labor; and to contribute 18s. per annum towards the expense of medicine, police,
and religious instruction (1822). Still further to encourage such contracts, the settlers were
furnished with a cow, for every convict attached to their grants, to continue in their possession
during the term of his servitude![157]

The regulation issued at Downing-street in 1824, engaged that the purchaser of land--who within
ten years might save ten times the amount of his payment, by the employment of convicts, reckoning
each at £16 per annum--should receive back his money, though without interest; but when the
land was conditionally given, one-fifth part of that saving would pass to account of quit-rent,
and thus probably entitle the employer to entire relief.

The Van Diemen's Land Company, by agreement with Earl Bathurst, entered into similar covenants,
and received their land subject to a quit-rent, redeemable by the sustentation and employment
of prisoners--to them a fortunate stipulation,[158] and which has relieved their vast territory
from a heavy pressure. These various plans indicate the difficulties of finding masters, which
once prevailed.

The government having roused the spirit of emigration, were soon enabled to grant a favor when
they assigned a workman, and rapidly withdrew from engagements no longer necessary. Hundreds
of families arrived in a succession of vessels, and speedily fixed themselves in the interior:
flocks were contracted, herds were slaughtered; fences, homesteads, and fields of corn divided
and dotted the land. The least capital admitted was £500; and though several evaded the condition,
many of the settlers brought much larger sums. They pursued their improvements, with all the
vigour awakened by novelty, and stimulated by the prospect of considerable gains. The competition
for labor increased, until it created in the minds of the settlers a feeling of dependance
and obligation--to refuse a supply, had been ruin. It placed before the prisoners, once again,
the examples of emancipist opulence: mechanics earned more wages than officers of the army;
again transportation was represented as a boon; and then came other changes.

In the official newspaper of 1827, it is stated that 1,000 applications were registered at
Hobart Town. To an English reader, and to a modern colonist, the notices of this period seem
like satire. "Better," remarks this organ of the higher classes, "better send petitions for
more prisoners--now that applications have lain dormant for twelve months: some for four, eight,
and ten men--than trouble about trial by jury and representative government. The disappointment,
we trust, will be temporary: when the last vessel sailed, the York was freighting. We trust
the home secretary will consider the deficiency"! The extremely earnest manner in which these
felonious additions were implored, is a curious relic of a bygone era.[159]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 156: Collins, vol. i. p. 267.]

[Footnote 157: Gazette, 11th July, 1822.]

[Footnote 158: Bischcoff.]

SECTION XI.

The system of assignment was first established in America (1718), and continued for fifty-six
years: the rigid discipline permitted by the colonial law, the kind of labor usually performed
by the servants, and their diffusion over an extensive surface, tended alike to restrain, to
reform, and ultimately to merge them undistinguished. Many, endowed with good natural abilities,
such as an accomplished thief usually possesses, succeeded in their pursuits, and became masters
themselves, by the purchase of the servitude of those afterwards sent out for sale.[160] Thus,
whatever complaints were raised against transportation itself, none objected to assignment;
and the long period of its duration, proves that the home government cared little for the state
of prisoners, while there was no local press to vindicate their rights, and few readers of
books to encourage romantic delineations of their felicity.

On the arrival of a vessel, the chief officers of the government examined the prisoners, and
the Governor himself addressed them. He pointed out their future position, their duties, and
their dangers; the tone of promise usual in times past was considerably abated, but the awful
rigours of their servitude were explained, often to their astonishment and horror.[161] Often
the private examination of the prisoner confounded him with amazement: a gentleman, whom he
had never seen before, unravelled with facility the mystery of his life. If he had been often
in prison; if his brother had been transported; if his sweetheart had been deserted; whether
he had been a pest to the lords of the manor, or to the parish, by poaching or bastardy: his
whole life was read by his inquisitor, with supernatural clearness. The raw countryman did
not know how far his course had been subject to the gaze of the stranger: denial gave way rapidly;
he assented, and explained, and enlarged--and thus the office of the superintendent answered
the purpose of a confessional. It was the practice to furnish all possible information to the
local government, and to keep its details a secret from the prisoners: such had been the advice
of the Commissioner. Thus the wonder of the country transport, to find that the picture of
his life had preceded him--that all was known at the world's end.

Though no persons could have greater cause to confuse their identity, the prisoners often stamped
on their persons indelible distinctions; a custom, perhaps, introduced by the sailors, and
encouraged by the officers, but which prevailed among London thieves. Those who suffered these
figures to be pierced, were usually the most simple minded, or the most depraved. The figures
themselves were sometimes obscene, but not commonly: often mermaids, still more frequently
hearts and darts; sometimes the name, or the initials of the prisoner. Thus, in the runaway
notices (1825), one had a hope and anchor; another, a castle, flower pots, hearts and darts;
another, a man and woman, a heart and a laurel; another, a masonic arch, and moon and stars,
and initials in abundance. An Irishman had a crucifix on the arm, a cross on the right hand,
and the figure of a woman on the breast! Such were the ingenious methods which, induced by
indolence and vanity, these men permitted, to lessen the chances of escape. The initials generally
differed from those of the known name, and indicated that the wearer, some time or other, had
occasion for disguise: others were obviously memorials of past affection, and of names perhaps
associated with blighted hopes and better days. Besides these marks, were others; scars, usually
the result of a life of mingled intemperance and violence: thus, almost in succession, the
list of absconders gives the following--"a scar on the forehead;" "scar on the right eye;"
"his arm has been broken;" "his nose inclines to the left cheek;" "a broken nose."[162]

All that might assist the police was registered: their native place, their age, their crime,
and sentence. They were then detached to their masters; marched, sometimes, in considerable
bodies, from Kangaroo Point to Launceston, 120 miles. The mechanics were reserved for government
employ, and the concealment of a trade, was visited as a crime; yet convicts did conceal their
trade, instructed by former experience, or a hint from a veteran predecessor. They knew that
mechanical knowledge might prolong their detention, and deprive them of many present advantages.
They knew that, though rated as laborers, they might obtain a master who would pay them. This
was effected, sometimes, at once, or by the agency of a friend; or oftener by the prisoner,
who, on his first opportunity, would hint to a builder or carpenter, that he knew something
of a trade. An order was obtained for a laborer, which would not have been spared for a mechanic:
a fee to the clerk, secured the intended selection; and the man assigned to carry the materials
of a building, was taught, in a time which seemed incredibly short, all the mysteries of line
and rule. It is thus that weakness ever arms itself against might.

The increased demand for assigned servants, enabled Governor Arthur to enforce the regulations
which had been often promulgated in vain. It ceased to be necessary to pay wages, and the master
was bound to provide sufficient food and clothing for his men: the scale was determined. The
practice of lending out servants was restricted, and finally abolished. All those means of
stimulating labor, which had tended to suggest the rights of property, were forbidden. It had
been the custom to permit assigned servants to receive a share in the increase of stock; allotments
of land had been separated to their exclusive use; they had been suffered to trade upon their
own account. These arrangements were calculated to stimulate industry, but they also generated
disputes, and led to petty theft. Thus reduced to an absolute dependance upon the liberality
of their masters, they had no reward but as a boon: many of whom, however, evaded the regulations,
and paid their servants the ordinary wages of free men.

No rule can be devised, that is not liable to objection. The men were discontented with a service,
in which money was refused them: it was illegally possessed, and therefore rapidly spent in
debauchery and drunkenness. The settlers usually allowed some luxuries; but these, discretionally
given, were a tax to the liberal, often more onerous than reasonable wages. Domestic servants,
and those entrusted with important concerns, were paid by all, from the Governor downwards,
and that while regulations were promulgated against such violations of order.[163] It was doubtless
not at his direction, but at his cost!

A decision at Sydney, explained the nature of the claim for wages granted by former regulations
of government. A female, at the close of a long servitude, sued her master for arrears: the
judge advocate declared "his court one of equity and right," not of law; that the spirit of
public orders, not their letter, was the rule of judgment; that the allowance of money required
by the crown, was intended to secure the plaintiff certain comforts: those comforts she had
already enjoyed, and thus her claim in equity had been already satisfied (1823). The wages
of a man servant were stopped by the magistrates, because he had been accused of stealing from
his master (1821)!

The right of a master in the services of his assigned servant, was incidentally raised in the
celebrated case of Jane New. She arrived in Van Diemen's Land under a sentence of transportation,
and, according to the prevailing custom, was assigned to her husband; who was allowed, by Governor
Arthur, to remove her to New South Wales: she was charged there with a capital felony, and
death was recorded against her. The prosecutrix, Madle. Senns, a French mantua-maker, gave
her evidence by an interpreter: afterwards, it was discovered, that the conviction was erroneous,
both in substance and in law: released on the recommendation of the judges, by order of the
sheriff she was committed to the female factory at Parramatta. Her husband then sued out a
writ of habeas corpus, to which the return, as amended by the direction of the court, alleged
under the hand of the colonial secretary, that her detention was by authority of Governor Darling,
she being a prisoner of the crown. The question seemed to depend on the nature of the rights
conveyed by assignment; but a second arose: whether those rights could be exercised beyond
the limits of the territory appointed for the transportation; or whether Governor Arthur was
authorised to permit the removal. The judges, Forbes, Stephen, and Dowling, decided that the
prisoner having been transported to Van Diemen's Land, was, by removal to Port Jackson, no
longer under the provisions of the act of parliament; that neither the magistrates nor Governor
of New South Wales, could make her the subject of summary treatment; but as a prisoner illegally
at large, must remand her to the place of her original and unsatisfied term of transportation.

In giving this decision, the judges announced their opinion upon the rights of assignment in
general, as regulated by the 9th Geo. iv. cap. 83. The Act required the consent of the governor
in the assignment of a prisoner, and authorised the revocation of that assignment: this power
to revoke, was however, to enable the governor to grant remission--to change the civil condition
of the servant; and thus, by his restoration to liberty, to extinguish the rights of the assignee.
The law officers, on the part of government, alleged that the discretion was absolute, and
authorised a summary disposal of the services of the prisoner; whether under, or independent
of, a magisterial decision.

The chief justice, however, maintained that such a right in the executive might be ruin to
the people. He asserted, that the duty and right of the governor was limited to the execution
of a public trust, as between the crown on one side and the prisoner on the other; to minister
to a covenant, subject only to those stipulations, the neglect of which might, by the common
rights of humanity, dissolve the engagement. "If," he remarked, "the governor, at discretion,
may revoke the assignment of prisoners, as a consequence he may render the estates of landholders
of no value; nor does it appear that this power of revocation is sustainable under any circumstances
in the large and discretionary form claimed by the law officers of the crown."[164]

The government endeavoured to contest this right (1829), in the instance of Mr. Hall, publisher
of the Monitor, whose strictures had provoked official hostility. His men were recalled by
the superintendent; he, however, paid no attention to the notice, and continued to employ them:
for this he was summoned before the bench of magistrates, who, influenced by the known opinions
of the government, fined him, under the act against harbouring. Mr. Wentworth moved for a criminal
information against Messrs. Berry, Wollstoncraft, and others, for contempt: a rule was granted,
but afterwards dismissed; the judges expressing the strongest indignation that the magistrates
had dared to set aside the solemn decision of the court on a point of law, and in reference
to the most important rights of the colonists; and to mark their displeasure, they saddled
them with all the costs. Mr. Hayes, of the Australian, was involved in a similar contest; but
to break the bond, the governor granted a ticket-of-leave--thus releasing the prisoner from
his assignment. The printer, notwithstanding, brought his action against the superintendent
for abduction, and gained damages; the judges holding, that the sudden deprivation of the master,
by an arbitrary and unusual indulgence--granted only to deprive him of his rights as assignee--was
not contemplated in the law, which modified those rights by the prerogative of mercy.

The following are the chief provisions of the Parliamentary Acts on the subject of assignment:--

The 4th Geo. i. (1717) conveyed an absolute property to the shipper, who again assigned to
the master.

An opinion was obtained from the law officers of the crown (about 1818), that the state of
convict servitude was created by the 4th Geo. i. and subsequent statutes, under which a property
in the servant was reserved to the master, whether captain or colonist: the power to punish
was assumed as a necessary consequence.[165]

The 5th Geo. iv. gave a right to the governors to release the convict from assignment, by a
pardon, &c. A subsequent Act, for abolishing the punishment of death in certain cases, limited
the exercise of mercy.

The 9th Geo. iv. gave the governor power to revoke assignment; and made the master entirely
dependant on the government.

The local government rarely interfered with the prescriptive rights of the masters, nor did
it often object to the transfer of servants when the value of an estate depended on the possession
of bond labor. The most remarkable deviation from this policy was in the instance of Mr. William
Bryan, a gentleman of considerable wealth, who was dismissed from the magistracy, and deprived
of all his servants in one day (1833). Relying on the decision of the judges of New South Wales,
he threatened an action, but the law of assignment being changed,[166] it was quite within
the province of the Governor to recall a servant at any hour. The discretion of the executive
was never brought into legal question; but the deprivation of a colonist in the midst of harvest,
without public inquiry into any alleged malversation, taught the settlers that their fortunes
were in the hands of the Governor. A London pickpocket required a long course of instruction;
but his services were no longer secure to his master--a serious drawback from their worth.

The transfer of servants, once convenient to the government, lasted until 1838, when it was
finally abolished. It had been agreed by a settler, named Silcock, to transfer a servant to
Mr. Theodore Bartley: on the application an endorsement was written--"the consent of the servant
is, in all cases, necessary." This led to a long correspondence, in which several colonists
took part. The settlers contended that, to require the servant's consent, was inconsistent
with his civil condition; "tended to weaken the sense of submission and control," and raise
him into a dispenser of favors. A large amount of polite recrimination enlivened this dispute,
which perhaps ended as was best--the last bond was broken.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 159: Courier, 1829.]

[Footnote 160: Colquhoun.]

[Footnote 161: Arthur's evidence: Par. Pap.]

[Footnote 162: Gazette, 1825.]

[Footnote 163: Murdoch's evidence: Par. Pap.]

[Footnote 164: Sydney Gazette, 1829.]

[Footnote 165: Bigge's Report.]

[Footnote 166: The 9th Geo. iv. enacted (omitting superfluous words), "That any offender assigned
under 5th Geo. iv. shall not be assigned by the master to any other person without the consent
of the Governor, who may as shall seem meet revoke such assignment and grant remissions, as
may be best adapted to the reformation of offenders, and revoke and renew them as occasion
may require, any act of parliament notwithstanding."]

SECTION XII.

One of the earliest (1824) and chief difficulties of Governor Arthur's administration sprang
from an out-break of prisoners at Macquarie Harbour, who divided in their progress, and collected
several formidable bands. The efforts to escape from that dreary region had been numerous,
but unsuccessful: the unhappy beings who wandered into the woods, found no sustenance, and
died either from exhaustion or by the hands of each other; or when they endeavoured to ford
the Gordon, and attain by a more direct course the settled districts, they were either drowned
or taken. During the first five years, when not more than two hundred were confined there,
one hundred ventured on this dangerous enterprise, notwithstanding their ignorance of the route,
and the almost certain starvation which awaited them. Prisoners arriving from Hobart Town gave
them erroneous tidings respecting the absconders, and delusive hopes of success, and thus the
foolish and desperate were prompted to hazard the perils of flight.

The first (1822) adventurers were John Green and Joseph Sanders; never heard of more: six others
followed a few days after, and encountered a similar fate. They were pursued by two soldiers
and three prisoners, who took with them a fortnight's provision and hunting dogs. The rain
continued for seven weeks after their departure, and it was presumed they perished from exhaustion.[167]
Another party formed a catamaran, but it parted when they had proceeded a short distance; and
they were rescued from its fragments by the soldiers. Eight others left in the following September,
and all lost their lives, except Pearce, whose narrative will be noticed hereafter.

At Macquarie Harbour, the first commandant was Lieutenant Cuthbertson, a soldier who had been
in eighteen general engagements; yet was glad of an appointment, to supplement the deficiency
of his pay. His discipline was severe, but of brief duration. A small vessel, built at the
harbour, was in danger, and Cuthbertson ordered out his own boat to its relief; this he effected:
on returning, his boat was upset, and all, except two, were drowned. Cuthbertson was thrice
raised by one of the crew; but finding his strength unequal to retain his hold, he said, "man,
save yourself; never mind me--it is no use." On the death of the commandant, the chief authority
devolved on a non-commissioned officer. The prisoners were disposed to question his right to
obedience: his government was vigorous, and he flogged with redoubled frequency.[168]

In June, 1824, two parties absconded from Macquarie Harbour: one, consisting of three persons
only, who seized the soldiers' boat, provisions, and arms. They proceeded about twelve miles,
when they moored the boat to a stump of a tree, and wrote on its stern with chalk, "to be sold:"
of this party no tidings were ever heard, and it is supposed that they perished. The second
left five days afterwards, and were, for a time, more fortunate. Having resolved to escape,
they proposed to capture the barge of commandant Wright; but suspecting their intention, he
pushed off before they could reach it, leaving behind the surgeon. This gentleman they threatened
to flog, and prepared the instrument of punishment; Brady interposed, and thus began his fatal
career by an act of gratitude. He had experienced some kindness from the surgeon when a patient,
and forgave his official attendance at the triangles. These men were usually friendly to the
doctors: another medical gentleman, afterwards taken prisoner by Brady and his gang, was allowed
to retain his lancet, and treated with respect, although robbed of his money. A few days before,
he had released one of the party from punishment, by alleging his physical inability. It was
thus in the power of the surgeons to favor the prisoners, and to mitigate the sentence of a
rigorous magistrate.

The party having obtained a boat, proceeded towards the Derwent, and were pursued by Lucas,
the pilot, without success. They left on the 9th, and appeared on the east coast of the Derwent
on the 18th June, at the residence of Mr. Mason: having beaten him with great violence and
cruelty, they next robbed a servant of Mr. Gunn of fire-arms. They were pursued by this officer,
and five were captured. These were instantly placed on their trial, and were desirous of pleading
guilty; but courts have always manifested dislike to such evasions of trial, and they retracted,
on the persuasion of the chief justice. They attempted to extenuate their crimes by the hardships
they had suffered, but in vain.

The advice to a person accused to plead not guilty, though anomalous in its aspect, is yet
usually a proper protection to the ignorant and defenceless: such, under an impression of general
guilt, might admit an aggravated indictment, and lose the advantage of those distinctions made
by legislators on public grounds, between crime and crime; or the executive might delude a
prisoner with fallacious hopes of mercy, to prevent the disclosure of extenuating facts to
conceal official wrong; while ignorance of the details of a crime, might destroy the moral
weight of exemplary punishment.

With these men was executed Alexander Pearce, whose confessions to the priest were, by his
consent, published at his death. He formed one of the second party who absconded from Macquarie
Harbour (1822). They had planned their escape with considerable skill: one was a sailor, and
able to direct their course: they possessed themselves of a boat, and proposed to capture the
vessel of the pilot, then laden for town. It was the custom, when a prisoner was missing, to
kindle signal fires along the coast, thus giving notice to the sentinels: to prevent such information,
the absconders poured water on the embers kept in readiness. This was not effectually done:
and thus, when they had proceeded half-a-mile, they saw the smoke rising, and their passage
cut off; they therefore landed, destroyed the boat, and entered the bush. They now commenced
a course of fatigue and horror: they began to murmur, and then to discuss the terrible alternative
of general starvation: two, who overheard the proposition, returned to the settlement, but
died almost immediately, from exhaustion. The rest travelled on, lessened at various stages
in their course by their fatal necessity, till two only survived; these were, Pearce and Greenhill--the
last, the victim. They spent two days and nights watching each other! Greenhill, who laid his
axe under his head, to guard against surprise, first slept! Pearce was now alone, and destitute;
but at length he came to a fire of the natives, and obtained some fragments of the opossum:
at last he reached a flock of sheep, and seized on a lamb, which he proceeded to devour undressed.
He was discovered by a stock-keeper, and when he surrendered was received with great kindness
and sympathy. His host introduced him to the bushrangers then abroad; but being afterwards
captured, he was again forwarded to Macquarie Harbour.

Such suffering might have been expected to overcome all future desire to abscond; yet, in company
with Cox, Pearce again left the settlement: they remained several days in the neighbourhood,
and then attempted to reach the northern part of the island. Pearce slew his unsuspecting comrade.
Horror took possession of his mind; or, despairing to effect his escape, he returned and made
signals to the Waterloo, then passing the coast. He confessed his crime, and professed a wish
to die.[169]

These cases indicate the rapid process by which the habits of cannibalism are formed: the details
of his trial were given in the Gazettes of the period, and are contained in the parliamentary
papers; but who could bear to examine the diary of such a journey, or to describe the particulars
of those sacrifices which fill the soul with unutterable loathing!

Arrests were constantly made, but did not diminish the number, or daring of new adventurers.
Their exploits were contagious: many fled from the employ of government, and the service of
settlers, and forfeited their lives after a short career. An instance will show the extent
of their operations. By his spies the police magistrate was aware that a large quantity of
goods would be offered to a certain person for sale, whom he instructed to purchase, and to
pay partly by check and partly in cash. At midnight he surrounded a house in Hobart Town, with
soldiers and constables: there he found the men he sought--their arms, their plunder, and the
check. They had pillaged the dwelling of Mr. Haywood at the Macquarie, a district rarely free
from depredations. One of the robbers was formerly, and a second more lately, in the service
of the prosecutor, and a third was a neighbour. They had entered, by pretending to deliver
a message, and assaulted both Mr. Haywood and his wife: they fired several shots, and left
them with threats. They were promptly tried and executed.

Not long after, the same establishment was visited by Brady: he took but little, and assured
the prosecutor he need not fear retaliation, for Broadhead, the leader of the last party, was
not a bushranger! Eighteen were taken in one week, but they increased with equal rapidity.

The Governor, baffled by their lengthened defiance of the efforts to quell them, attributed
cowardice and corruption with an unsparing bitterness; yet the difficulties even of the well-disposed
were great, and they were often ignorant of the movements of the robbers. Their retreats were
often in the forests, and known only to themselves; and at some future time property will be
detected, the relics of early robbers, who carried with them to the grave the secret of their
hidden spoil. Occasionally, the hut of a bushranger has been observed: one, curiously formed,
was found by soldiers on the brow of Mount Wellington; and before the door, a salting apparatus.
The servants of the Van Diemen's Land Company saw a hut at St. Patrick's Plains, beyond the
Great Lake (1826). At a distance it resembled a gigantic fallen tree, and in its centre and
side were doors, from which the whole plain could be surveyed and surprise prevented.

The Governor denounced the miserable fear of personal danger--certainly more natural in the
bush than the council chamber. Doubtless many, equal to the bravery of an actual conflict,
preferred to pay black mail to robbers, rather than risk their sudden inroads and secret vengeance.
Nor was it at all certain that a marauder, when captured, would be detained: some broke from
their prisons; from Launceston, a band together, who renewed their pillage with increasing
diligence. Among others, they attacked the house of Mr. Harrison, and maintained a fire which
riddled his premises. These men attempted to fortify themselves by erecting stone fences on
the peak of a hill at the Macquarie: there they were surprised and taken. The insecurity of
the prisons, and the mode of disposing of respited offenders, made it not unlikely that an
officious witness would be called to a future account: thus an old man, who prosecuted a burglar,
was visited by the culprit when he returned from Macquarie Harbour; violently beaten, robbed,
and threatened with death.

To distinguish these men was no slight difficulty: they often pretended to be constables, and
were in possession before the error was discovered. One, still more serious, sometimes happened:
thus two constables saw two armed men enter a hut, and approaching challenged them; answer
not being promptly given, they fired, and severely wounded both the astonished policemen. Nor
were the settlers exempt from such perils. The bushrangers, often well dressed and mounted,
made every traveller an object of suspicion: when riding over the Cross Marsh, Mr. Hodgson
was challenged by the military stationed there; his motions of recognition they understood
as defiance, and fired. To his remonstrances they answered with insolence, and expressed a
wish that the shot had proved fatal. On a prosecution the rash soldier was acquitted, no malice
being presumed (1826); and the attack was deemed a contingency of colonial life.

Among those whose crimes obtained them the greater notoriety, were Brady, M'Cabe, Jeffries,
and Dunne: well mounted upon horses, and armed with muskets, they scoured the colony: murder,
pillage, and arson, rendered every homestead the scene of terror and dismay. Those settlers
most exposed, often abandoned the business of their farms: their dwellings were perforated
with loop-holes, their men were posted as sentinels, and all the precautions adopted, necessary
in a state of war. But though not without supporters and accomplices, the bushrangers were
in far greater danger of betrayal and capture than at a former period. The settlers, much more
numerous, and of a higher class, felt that the suppression of the robbers, or the desertion
of the colony, were the only alternatives. Governor Arthur exerted all the powers of government
against them. Thus the issue was not long doubtful, although the contest cost many lives.

In July, 1824, a party under James Crawford, appeared on the river, and having robbed the house
of Mrs. Smith, they loaded her servants with their plunder, and drove them towards the establishment
of Mr. Robert Taylor: meeting his son, they compelled him to bear part of the burden. The family
observed the party approach, and armed to meet them. Young Taylor called to his father not
to fire; and when he came near his friends, he managed to escape from the robbers: a general
skirmish ensued. The young man seeing a piece levelled at his father, seized the assassin by
the throat, and pulled him down: this brought a comrade to the robber's assistance: one of
the servants became alarmed for young Taylor, and fired; unhappily, the shot was fatal to the
youth for whose protection it was intended. The robbers now made their escape, leaving behind,
beside two of their companions, their arms and plunder. Governor Arthur addressed a letter
of condolence and praise to the sorrowing family: their neighbours expressed admiration of
their courage, and presented a piece of plate to them, in testimony of their sympathy and esteem.
Their example was exhibited by the Governor to the imitation of the colonists, notwithstanding
its terrible issue.

The overseer of Mr. Kemp was met by Brady and his party, and taken to his master's house; there
he was ordered to gain admission, which he did by answering the challenge of his employer:
the bushrangers having possession, robbed the house, in the presence of seven assigned servants
and two free persons. Yet it was not a small risk to begin the melée; and it was not reasonable
to expect men, in their civil condition, to hazard life to protect the property of a master,
for whom, perhaps, they did not entertain much love. Thus the settlers could not always depend
upon their men: many of whom saw, with pleasure, the vengeance inflicted on masters who had
sometimes procured their punishment; and, partly by sympathy and partly by fear, they were
deterred from rendering effectual assistance. Three men, with blackened faces, visited the
residence of Captain Allison at Sandy Bay: he met them with uncommon courage, but was struck
down and beaten; he appealed to his servants, who only muttered a reply to his calls for aid.
Mrs. Allison joined her entreaties, when at length an atrocious woman (Hannah Bell, afterwards
notorious) said to the robbers, in a tone of sarcasm,--"Come men, don't kill him quite out."

One of their most daring exploits was the taking of the town of Sorell, and the capture of
the gaol. They entered the premises of Mr. Bethune, of which they kept possession until dusk
on the following evening. Two gentlemen, who arrived there during the day, they detained: they
stripped them of their clothing, and tendered the prisoner dress in exchange; this being, however,
declined, one of the gentlemen wore no other covering than a blanket. These, and others, eighteen
in number, they compelled to accompany them to Sorell. A party of soldiers, who had been employed
in pursuit all the day, and who were worn out with fatigue, while cleaning their guns, were
surprised in the gaol. Brady locked them up in a cell, and offered liberty to the prisoners
he found there; one of whom, who was charged with a capital offence, for which he was afterwards
executed, declined the opportunity to escape. The gaoler hastened to inform Lieutenant Gunn,
who was in the neighbourhood, and thus prepared for the arrival of the robbers: while raising
his arm, he received a shot above the elbow, which rendered amputation necessary. This officer
had been employed in the pursuit of the marauders for a considerable time, and his gigantic
stature, courage, and energy, rendered his name formidable: he received from the public a valuable
present, and a pension from the colonial fund.

The roads were infested, and communication was dangerous: travellers were arrested and tied
to trees; and sometimes, though not frequently, treated with cruelty. To preserve their property,
the settlers resorted to concealment and stratagem: among the rest, the contrivance and coolness
of an old woman, merits remembrance, who knowing that the robbers were on the road provided
a paper of blank notes, which she delivered to them, and thus saved a considerable sum, the
result of her marketing.

Their close pursuit at length filled them with a spirit of mischief, and they perpetrated various
acts of cruelty and wanton devastation. Among their most ordinary pleasantries, was forcing
the people of an establishment to drink to drunkenness: thus their recollection became confused;
they could not follow, and the robbers enjoyed the scene of their helpless intoxication. They
held a pistol to a servant of Mr. Hance, of the river Plenty, and compelled him to drink a
large quantity of rum: they then led him off the farm and left him. He was discovered some
time after by a shepherd, his dog fondly licking his face: when raised up, he called for water,
and died. Inflammation caused mortification of the intestines;--the tender mercies of the wicked
are cruel! Not content with pillage, they destroyed the wool of three years' clip, the corn
stacks, and the barns on the establishment of Mr. Lawrence, by fire. Several other settlers
experienced similar visitations. The Governor issued a proclamation, five hundred copies of
which were scattered through the colony. He threatened with death all persons who might afford
them countenance. He offered rewards to a large amount: for every bushranger mentioned in the
notice one hundred guineas, or three hundred acres of land; or to prisoners, money and a free
pardon, whether directly or indirectly engaged in the capture; and to the chief constable in
whose district the robber should be taken, one hundred acres. He complained that sufficient
energy and co-operation had not been employed, and called upon the magistrates and other persons
to combine for the liberation of the country. He himself resolved to fix his residence at Jericho,
to direct the operations; and the inhabitants of Hobart Town formed themselves into a guard,
that thus the soldiers and constabulary might be wholly employed in this important service.
The robbers, however, being mounted, were enabled to move with considerable rapidity, and carried
on their depredations in every part of the island.

By acts of wantonness and vengeful barbarity, they intended to intimidate the prisoners. They
called Thomas Preston from his hut, on the South Esk, and deliberately shot him. They took
Captains White and Smith prisoners: the last, they made to kneel--their usual preparation for
murder; but were induced to spare his life, by the intercession of his companion, who appealed
to their humanity on behalf of his wife and children! They endeavoured to capture the Glory,
belonging to one of these gentlemen; but finding the wind unfavorable, they relinquished that
purpose. While Brady was on a hill, watching that vessel, a confederate escaped, intending
to betray them to Colonel Balfour: one of the party, stationed as sentinel, was tried by a
sort of court martial, for permitting his elopement; he was shot, and flung into the Tamar.
They sent word that they would visit Launceston gaol, carry off Jeffries, and put him to death.
Their message was of course treated with contempt, but they landed and advanced to the residence
of Mr. Dry, who was then entertaining a number of his friends. The banditti plundered the house,
and were packing up their booty when Colonel Balfour, to whom a messenger had been dispatched,
arrived with ten soldiers and surrounded the house: the robbers retreated to the back part
of the premises, and fired into the rooms. It was dark, and when the firing ceased, they were
supposed to have retreated. The colonel, with four of his men, hastened to protect the town,
to which a division of the robbers had been sent by Brady. As soon as he departed, some of
the party again showed themselves: Dr. Priest joined Mr. Theodore Bartley, and the remaining
soldiers; unfortunately, his clothing being partly white, enabled the robbers to take aim.
His horse was shot dead: he himself received a musket ball, which wounded him above his knee;
and refusing to submit to amputation he lost his life.

Exasperated by these crimes, the whole country rose against them: they were sought in every
quarter. The settlers, and soldiers scattered over the colony, at the first notice of their
appearance, were prepared to follow them. The Governor himself took the field, and infused
vigour into the pursuit; and in less than a month the chief robbers were in the hands of justice.
Brady, wounded in the leg, was overtaken by the soldiers, and surrendered without a struggle.
With Jeffries, he was conveyed to Hobart Town. A large crowd assembled to see robbers, who
were admired for their boldness by many, as much as they were detested for their crimes.

The most ferocious of the bushrangers was Jeffries: he obtained his reprieve in Scotland, to
act as executioner.[170] Being transported to this country, he was employed as a scourger,
and thus trained to cruelty, entered the bush. He robbed the house of Tibbs, a small settler,
and after wounding, compelled him, with his wife, to proceed to the forest. The woman carried
her infant: Jeffries was disturbed by its cries; perhaps, fearful that the sound might conduct
his pursuers. He took the child from the arms of its mother and dashed out its brains against
a tree! When captured, he was taken to Launceston, where the people, exasperated by his unusual
guilt, were scarcely restrained, from summary vengeance, by the presence of a strong guard.
While in prison he made sketches of his murders, and wrote memoirs of his life! His countenance
was an index of his character. Not so with Brady; who, though guilty of heavy crimes, pretended
to something like magnanimity: he was drawn into the plan to escape, contrary to his own judgment,
and then said the die was cast. His robberies were skilfully planned and deliberately executed:
he often restored such articles as the sufferers specially valued. To every indictment he pleaded
guilty: it was thought in contempt of justice; but certainly in the full conviction that it
was useless to expect either mercy or acquittal.

An instance of his persevering vengeance, which rests on the authority of a magistrate, may
be worth remembering. A man, who had been a confederate, determined to entrap him: Brady on
approaching his hut felt a presentiment of treachery; but at length was persuaded to advance.
The constables were in ambush: they fired, and both himself and his companion were arrested.
Brady, wounded, was left bound in the hut with his betrayer, while the constables conducted
his comrade to a place of confinement. He now requested to lie on the bed, and that a kangaroo
rug might be thrown over him: this done, he disentangled his arms and asked for water. The
guard laid aside his gun to procure it; this Brady seized, and in his turn became captor. While
bound, he reproached the man for his perfidy, who said that he could but die; and that there
was neither God nor devil! But being now in Brady's power, he fell upon his knees, and prayed
him, for God's sake, to spare his life. Brady reminded him, that he had just said, "there was
no God;" but added, that the report of the gun might give warning of the state of affairs.
He bade him beware of their next meeting, and departed. Afterwards, in company with his gang,
he met this man, and holding a pistol to his head, told him to say his prayers: the man, finding
remonstrance useless, coolly placed his head against the door of the hut, and said, "fire!"
and was shot dead.

Permission being given for prisoners to unite with the bushrangers, to betray them, men in
irons left the town secretly, joined the gang, and gave intelligence to the police. This manoeuvre
was soon worn out. A prisoner, who escaped from gaol, desired to join them in good faith; but
believing him a decoy, the gang adjudged him to suffer death. He was compelled to drink a quantity
of laudanum: they then left him; but his stomach rejected the drug, and after a sound sleep
he recovered. He again met Brady and his gang: two pistols were discharged at him: he fell,
and was left for dead; but the wound was not mortal, and reviving he determined to deliver
himself up. He was, however, again unfortunate: he met Brady and his companions once more,
who again fired; but the bullet, instead of entering the skull, glanced round it. He fell senseless
to the ground, and was thrown into a dry creek; he, however, recovered, and long survived these
adventures.[171] The high authority on which this anecdote rests, is quite necessary to suppress
the question of its truth.

During two years ending with 1826, one hundred and three persons suffered death, being 3 8-15ths
in proportion to one thousand of the population: more than in Great Britain. He who looks at
these statistics alone, will conclude not only that the people were wicked, but that the government
was cruel. At one sitting of the court thirty-seven persons were sentenced to death; and of
these, twenty-three were executed in the course of a fortnight: nine suffering together, and
fourteen others on two days closely following. A sacrifice of life so unusual, could only be
justified by the peculiar circumstances of the colony, and the character of the criminals;
and the notions which then prevailed respecting the punishment of death.

We are forcibly reminded of a passage in Lord Coke:--"If a man could see all the Christians,
that in one year come to that untimely and ignominious death--if there were any spark or grain
of charity in him, it would make his heart bleed!" The extreme pains taken to reconcile the
unfortunate beings to their lot; the assiduity of the clergy to make up, by the assurance of
divine mercy, the inexorable fate which awaited them; proved that these awful slaughters were
onerous to the colonial conscience, and vindicable only as the last resort of the last necessity.
The Governor must be acquitted of great blame. A discussion, of considerable warmth, arose
(1825-6) on an address being presented from fifty persons, who complained of the delays of
justice on bushrangers already condemned. The gaol was crowded, and the prisoners seemed not
unlikely to escape: several did actually break out of prison. This memorial was transmitted
by the government to the chief justice, who, while he disdained giving reasons to the colony,
vindicated his court: the magistrates neglected the depositions; the attorney-general the indictments,
and the jury their summons. He had sat in a silent court until ashamed, while prisoners awaited
deliverance. He had often felt disposed to discharge them; some of whom were detained longer
for trial than for punishment. He could not perceive how the delay of execution could facilitate
the evasion of capture by those at large. In transmitting this reply, Arthur took occasion
to refer to the colonial press, supported by several of the memorialists, as largely implicated
with the crimes of the bushrangers. He traced, with some artifice, the violence of the robbers
to political dissensions, as inspiriting men who easily confounded "the liberty of writing
and the liberty of acting." To be satisfied that the Governor did not seize an occasion of
rebuke, rather than account for a public misfortune, is difficult; and not less, to sympathise
with the petitioners. It is common for private individuals to deprecate the severities of public
justice, but the awful state of the colony must be admitted, when fifty persons, among its
most opulent and even humane inhabitants, were anxious to hasten the offices of the executioner.

The ignorant and brutal among the prisoners rushed into violence and crime, with a recklessness
of life scarcely credible. Not less than one hundred were in arms at that time:[172] most of
them were absconders from the various penal stations, and had exhausted all those forms of
severity which stopped short of the scaffold. Of seventy-three sentenced together, nine were
for sheep-stealing, four for forgery, five for murder, and twelve for robbery; besides four
for the offence known in gaols under the name of blanketing, who were ordered for execution--a
punishment which was commuted, being even then thought too severe for a theft committed in
gaol. They threw over the man whom they robbed a blanket, and raised loud outcries; and in
this form effected their design.

A few of the cases tried on this occasion, will better illustrate the condition of the colony
than any general description. The murderers of Alexander Simpson, a settler at Pittwater, pillaged
his shop, where he was accustomed to sleep for the protection of his property: his body was
found in the river, decapitated, and his flesh torn from his bones; in many places literally
bare. On closer examination, the mark of a cord was observed round his neck, which probably
occasioned his death. The mangling of his body was intended to destroy the proof of identity:
no marks or signs of struggling were visible, nor was the head discovered. One of the murderers
dropped an expression, from which guilt was inferred. Suspicion was directed to several of
the neighbours: articles, such as the deceased possessed, were found in their dwelling, wet;
others were discovered in a house adjoining the deceased's, also wet; the accused were seen
together, on the night of the murder. Twenty-two witnesses gave evidence to facts, all of a
circumstantial nature; but sufficient to secure a verdict against them. This crime was considered
but a type of many, committed in a neighbourhood, the traditions of which furnish many a tale
of blood.

Among those who suffered death, were several whose captors acquired considerable reputation
for their courage. Three were taken by Lucas, the pilot, assisted by a man and a boy, to whom
they surrendered with arms in their hands: they had just before committed a robbery at the
house of Mr. Holdship. On his defence, one of their number told the judge, that whatever might
be law, he himself could not consider that to hold a pistol at the head was to offer violence!
Several others belonged to a party which had escaped from Maria Island, a new penal settlement.
On their landing, they advanced to the house of Mr. Gatenby, and were seen approaching by his
son, who took up his gun and went out to meet them: he called upon their leader to lay down
his arms, which he answered by a discharge. Mr. Gatenby returned the shot, which proved mortal.
The companions of the robber endeavoured to carry him off; but finding this useless, they retreated,
and re-appeared at the premises of Mr. James Robertson, on the South Esk, whose lands, and
those of his assigned servants, they tied, excepting one who was lame. Mr. W. Gray coming up
on horseback, they made prisoner, and bound him in a similar manner. The leader of the robbers
mounted his horse, while the rest guarded the gentlemen and servants, and marched them on towards
the river. Mr. Gray disengaged his arm, and by a signal seized one bushranger, while the lame
man assailed another. Mr. Robertson also released himself, and got possession of the guns.
The robbers were overpowered: one only escaped, but was captured the following day.

The Governor was not slow to acknowledge these instances of gallantry. The courage of the masters,
and the fidelity of their men, were held up to the colony as brilliant examples, and to the
robbers as a proof that persons of the same civil condition had no sympathy with their crimes;
that their career would be short, and their capture certain. Tickets-of-leave were granted
to the men, with a promise of full freedom, as a reward of one year's service in the field
police. The Government Gazette observed, that such presence of mind and personal bravery, in
another age would have entitled the captors to armorial bearings; they, however, received donations
of land, perhaps not less valuable in this meridian.

Amongst others who received a reprieve, was William Kerr, convicted of forging, in the name
of the chief justice, an ingenious device, which, if it did not preserve him from conviction,
perhaps rescued him from a severer fate. He was advanced in years, and said to be a near relative
of the Earl of Roxborough, and a brother to Lord Kerr. In gaol, he was conspicuous for his
zeal in attempting the instruction of his fellow prisoners, performing the office of chaplain
in the absence of a better! These unfortunate beings were placed together in cells, too narrow
to allow retirement or freedom from interruption: their attempts at escape, once or twice nearly
successful, rendered it necessary to load them with irons. The time of execution was fixed,
ere they wholly despaired of liberty. There was not, however, deficiency of clerical attention:
Mr. Corvosso, the wesleyan minister, joined with Messrs. Bedford and Knopwood, in this awful task.

Large crowds assembled to witness the first execution; but when the novelty was over, the interest
subsided. The last assembly was more select: in the description given by Dr. Ross, we seem
rather to read of a martyrdom than an expiation. They came forth, he observed, with countenances
unappalled: the light of truth rendered that ignominious morning the happiest of their lives.
They prayed in succession, in a devout and collected manner: one in particular, with a countenance
serene and placid, expressing his thanks to the chief justice for his impartial trial; and
to the Governor for rejecting his petition for life. In this tranquil frame they submitted
to the executioner. The spectators were affected to tears: the officers and clergymen, overpowered,
hurried from the scene: the criminals died, as they were singing--

    "The hour of my departure's come,
    I hear the voice that calls me home;
    Oh, now my God, let troubles cease,
    And let thy servant die in peace."

About this time Dunne, the bushranger, was executed: he attained a considerable distinction
by his crimes; more, by his protracted evasion of pursuit, and his sanguinary resistance of
capture; and still more, by the ceremonies of his execution and the honors of his funeral.
He came forth to the scaffold, arrayed in a robe of white, adorned, both before and behind,
with a large black cross. He wore a cap with a similar token, and carried a rosary in his hand.
He was presented with a coffin of cedar, ornamented with the devices of innocence and sorrow;
and bearing a plate, which told his name and the time of his death! As he advanced, with several
youthful fellow sufferers (of whom it is only said, that they seemed much terrified), he continued
to exclaim, smiting his breast with theatrical expression of grief--"O, Lord, deliver us!"
He was followed by forty couples to the grave. Such were the honors paid to a murderer. It
is not astonishing, that witnesses were insulted, and had to appeal for protection. A proposition
was made by the government newspaper, to render penal the taunts which prisoners were accustomed
to use against such as assisted in the suppression of outrage.

The public effect of these exhibitions will be extremely questionable by sober-minded and pious
men. To see a criminal depart from this life in a hardened and contemptuous spirit is, indeed,
appalling; but the serenity, and even rapture, thus common when terminating a career of guilt
and cruelty, often entered into the calculation of transgressors. Among the miserable forms
of vanity, is the triumph of boasting penitence; and even when nothing else remains, the eclât
of a public execution. Some were anxious to commit to writing their own last confessions of
guilt, to secure a posthumous interest in the terror or pity of mankind.[173] The fullest appreciation
of that system of mercy, which never separates religious hope from the living, would scarcely
justify confidence, founded on such demeanour and language between the cell and the scaffold.

Scarcely had this scene closed, when the prisoners in the penitentiary, allured by the prospect
of escape, broke through the gaol, and seized a boat: as they approached the Emma Kemp, a premature
display of muskets convinced them that their plan was discovered. It was, indeed, known by
the officers of the gaol prior to their departure; who, calculating on their arrest, permitted
the consummation of their plans. This cost them their lives: they retreated to the shore, robbed
Mr. Mortimer of eight stand of arms, and commenced their career as bushrangers. They were evidently
unwilling adventurers, and soon taken. The Governor, at their execution, compelled the attendance
of the prisoners, in the fallacious belief that the sight would prove admonitory as well as
terrible.

Several were mere youths: their obituary, furnished by the indefatigable chronicler of executions,
Dr. Ross, is not without interest. There was Dunhill, six feet three inches high and handsome,
a frequent attendant at criminal courts; whose father was a prisoner for life, and whose family,
once the terror of Yorkshire, were mostly transported or executed. There was Child, the son
of a Bristol merchant, who, as the rope was adjusting, said, "I know I shall go to heaven!"
There was a Scotch boy, who sang as he went; but said he was ruined in the penitentiary. Another
had driven his mother to self destruction.

Nine men were executed towards the close of the following year, for the murder of a constable,
named George Rex, at Macquarie Harbour: their leader, James Lacy, a person of considerable
talent, was saved on a former occasion by the mediation of the Rev. W. Bedford, who represented
that to Lacy's influence a settler owed his life. Having planned an escape, they seized the
constable; and having bound and gagged some fellow prisoners, whom they rejected as accomplices,
they took Rex and pushed him into the water, and held down his head until life was extinct.
They then formed a raft, but it was insufficient to convey them: three only landed on the main,
and were pursued and retaken. The sole witnesses summoned against them were prisoners, who
prevaricated in their testimony; but the presence of surgeon Barnes supplied the evidence they
thought proper to conceal, and insured the conviction. At the close of the trial, Lacy leaned
over the bar and said, "had it not been for you, doctor, we should have pulled through."

Lacy was conspicuous in the press-yard for his fervour, and delivered an animated warning to
the multitude, who were drawn together to witness an unusual sacrifice of life at one drop!
Dr. Ross, who still endeavoured to rally round the scaffold some special interest, gave an
artistic description of their end; but he was astonished to observe how the sufferers themselves
were but little affected, and the spectators less. He mourned over the unmeaning countenances
of the mob, who felt little but curiosity when they saw them step from the full bloom of life
to the grave! Nor was it perceived by that zealous defender of lenity, when the government
was lenient, and of the severity, when the government was severe, that the execution of nine
persons for an act, in which three only actually participated, or perhaps contemplated, could
only be possible among such a people. It is rather a matter of exultation, that there is a
limit, beyond which executions become the dullest of all entertainments. At that time no one
would have thought a single sufferer worth a glance of the eye.

It is remarked, that the most notorious of these offenders were rather prepossessing, except
that their looks, by long residence in the bush, had acquired an air of wildness. The indicative
theories of Lavater were negatived by the usual aspect of these crowds of victims; but the
most impatient of penal restraint, have been not only violent and corrupt, but often of resolute
and generous dispositions; often possessing the elements of a mental character, which, had
it not been perverted by crime, might have been distinguished for the energy of virtue. On
the primary treatment of such men, everything depends; and their first master determined whether
they were to become active and intelligent agriculturists, or by pernicious indulgence, and
not less ill-judged severity, to pass rapidly, by a reckless and resentful temper, from the
triangle to the scaffold.

Such severe exhibitions of penal vengeance were intended to crush the insurgent spirit; to
prove to the prisoners that any forms of combination or resistance would be followed by severer
suffering. The re-action of that excitement assisted the future success of discipline. It convinced
the masters that a neglected or careless management was equally pernicious. But the natives,
also became objects of terror: the outlaw could not wander far without risk from their spears,
or hover near the settled districts without encountering the roving parties employed in their
pursuit. Thus the ravages of white men almost wholly ceased, during the conflict with the aboriginal
tribes: the constables and the blacks together beat up the quarters of absconders.

But the precautions of the government were more effectual than its severity. Hitherto many
had lived at large. At night their own masters; when not seduced by more serious temptations,
their drunkenness exposed them to the lash; and dread or resentment precipitated them into
open crime. In 1827, the enlargement of the penitentiary, and its better order, enabled the
government to recall from private dwellings those least worthy of trust; and to make the indulgence
of a home a reward for orderly and industrious habits. The prisoners employed by the crown
were divided into seven classes. Some were permitted to labor one day weekly for their own
advantage: these were the mechanics, who were detained only because they were artisans; others,
on the roads, were allowed half that time, and by great exertions often obtained very considerable
sums. The rest were in irons, or sent to the penal settlement under a magisterial sentence.

The fate of many who had suffered death was traced by the Governor to the imprudence and guilty
connivance of the masters, or to the irregular methods of payment long interdicted by the crown;
such as cattle, allotments, or a portion of time. The executive council professed to follow
up these evils through every stage of their growth, until they were finally consummated on
the scaffold.[174] During twenty years they had been often condemned; but they were not extinguished
until the market was enlarged, and labor became scarce--so much do moral questions depend on
material revolutions.

The distribution of servants was made with more prudence, and some reference to their previous
habits and mode of life; and a stand was opposed to the sole superintendence of prisoner overseers,
who were often the occasion of unjust punishments and criminal laxity. The impounding laws
gradually cut off another occasion of mischief. Heretofore, large herds of cattle were under
the charge of prisoner herdsmen, who were armed with guns. The wild and exciting employment
exposed the men to many temptations: their daring spirit and fearless riding, rendered them
objects of admiration; and created discontent in the minds of prisoners who were tied down
to the more quiet labor of a farm. Of eight men employed by Mr. Lord, a wealthy colonist, five
suffered death for various crimes.[175] Such persons lived remote from the civilised community
and the inspection of their employers: often the channel of communication between the town
receivers and country thieves; nor this alone. The large herds wandering far beyond the limits
of the settled country, and without a recognised owner, suggested to the discontented servant
a resource, and led him to abscond where he could subsist on the flesh of slaughtered spoil.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 167: From Barnes' and Lempriere's account: compared, they differ in statistics; but
Barnes copied his statements from the official records at the Harbour.]

[Footnote 168: Par. Pap.

Of 182 prisoners, 169 were sentenced in 1822 to 7,000 lashes; that is, all were punished, except
13: and received each, upon an average, 400 lashes--inflicted with the severity unknown elsewhere.]

[Footnote 169: It has been suggested to the author, since the above was in type, that the disclosures
of this unfortunate being are not without a moral, which may compensate for the disgust their
perusal may occasion. They are therefore given in a note, which the reader may pass over:--

"The Rev. Mr. Connoly, who attended this unfortunate man, administering to him the consolations
of religion, addressed the crowd assembled around the scaffold, a few minutes before the fatal
drop was let to fall, in words to the following effect: He commenced by stating that Pearce,
standing on the awful entrance into eternity on which he was placed, was desirous to make the
most public acknowledgment of his guilt, in order to humble himself, as much as possible, in
the sight of God and man; that to prevent any embarrassment which might attend Pearce in personally
expressing himself, he had requested and directed him to say, that he committed the murder
of Cox, under the following circumstances:--Having been arrested here, after his escape from
Macquarie Harbour, Pearce was sent back to that settlement, where the deceased (Cox) and he
were worked together in the same gang. Cox constantly entreated him to run away with him from
that settlement, which he refused to do for a length of time. Cox having procured fishhooks,
a knife, and some burnt rag for tinder, he at last agreed to go with him, to which he was powerfully
induced by the apprehension of corporal punishment, for the loss of a shirt that had been stolen
from him. For the first and second day they strayed through the forest; on the third made the
beach, and travelled towards Port Dalrymple, until the fifth, when they arrived at King's River.
They remained three or four days in an adjoining wood, to avoid soldiers who were in pursuit
of them, and were all the time, from the period they started, without a morsel to eat. Overcome
by famine, Pearce determined to take Cox's life, which he effected by the stroke of an axe
while Cox was sleeping. Soon after the soldiers had departed, Pearce occupied the place they
had been in, where he remained part of a day and a night, living on the mutilated remains of
Cox; he returned to the settlement, made signal, and was taken up by the pilot, who conveyed
him to Macquarie Harbour, where he disclosed to the commandant the deed he had done, being
weary of life, and willing to die for the misfortunes and atrocities into which he had fallen.

The reverend gentlemen then proceeded to state, that he believed it was in the recollection
of every one present, that eight men had made their escape, last year, from Macquarie Harbour.
All these, except Pearce, who was of the party, soon perished, or were destroyed by the hands
of their companions. To set the public right respecting their fate, Pearce is desirous to state
that this party, which consisted of himself, Matthew Travers, Bob Greenhill, Bill Cornelius,
Alexander Dalton, John Mathers, and two more, named Bodnam and Brown, escaped from Macquarie
Harbour in two boats, taking with them what provision the coal-miners had, which afforded each
man about two ounces of food per day, for a week. Afterwards they lived eight or nine days
on the tops of tea tree and peppermint, which they boiled in tin-pots to extract the juice.
Having ascended a hill, in sight of Macquarie Harbour, they struck a light and made two fires.
Cornelius, Brown, and Dalton, placed themselves at one fire, the rest of the party at the other;
those three separated, privately, from the party, on account of Greenhill having already said,
that lots must be cast for some one to be put to death, to save the whole from perishing. Pearce
does not know, personally, what became of Cornelius, Brown, and Dalton: he heard that Cornelius
and Brown reached Macquarie Harbour, where they soon died, and that Dalton perished on his
return to that settlement. After their departure, the party, then consisting of five men, lived
two or three days on wild berries and their kangaroo jackets, which they roasted; at length
they arrived at Gordon's River, where it was agreed, that while Mathers and Pearce collected
fire-wood, Greenhill and Travers should kill Bodnam, which they did. It was insisted upon,
that every one should partake of Bodnam's remains, lest, in the event of their ultimate success
to obtain their liberty, any of them might consider himself innocent of his death, and give
evidence against the rest. After a day or two, they all swam across the river, except Travers,
whom they dragged across by means of a pole, to which he tied himself. Having spent some days
in distress and famine, it was proposed to Pearce, by Greenhill and Travers, that Mathers be
killed, to which he agreed. Travers and Pearce held him, while Greenhill killed him with an
axe. Living on the remains of the deceased, which they were hardly able to taste, they spent
three or four days, through weakness, without advancing beyond five of six miles; Travers being
scarcely able to move from lameness and swelling in his foot. Greenhill and Pearce agreed to
kill Travers, which Greenhill did while Pearce collected fire-wood. Having lived some time
on the remains of Travers, they were for some days without any thing to eat; their wants were
dreadful: each strove to catch the other off his guard, and kill him. Pearce succeeded to find
Greenhill asleep; took his life--and lived upon him for four days. He was afterwards for three
days without any sustenance; fell in, at last with the Derwent River, and found some small
pieces of opossum, &c., at a place where the natives had lately made fires. More desirous to
die than to live, he called out as loudly as he could, expecting the natives would hear him,
and come to put an end to his existence! Having fallen in with some bushrangers, with whom
he was taken, Pearce was sent back to Macquarie Harbour, from whence he escaped with Cox, as
has been already stated, for whose death he is now about to suffer."--Hobart Town Gazette, 1824.]

[Footnote 170: Ross's Almanack.]

[Footnote 171: "The fact was also corroborated by Brady, when examined by the gentleman from
whom I got the account; and, strange as it may appear, it is perfectly correct."--Breton's
New South Wales, p. 340.]

[Footnote 172: Gazette, 1825.]

[Footnote 173: The author is assured by a clergyman, that he has been dismissed his attendance
upon a prisoner, within a few days of his execution, for refusing to write down the particulars
of his life.]

[Footnote 174: "The flagitious proceedings of several of these men were clearly traced to have
had their source in the weakness or improper treatment of their employers, whose ill-judged
neglect of discipline, or corrupt toleration of irregularity, had contributed to entail consequences
so awful to those victims to offended justice. If it shall be ascertained, any settler makes
payment to convict servants in stock, or apportions to them land for their exclusive benefit,
or suffers them to be employed in any other than his immediate service, every support and indulgence
of the crown will be withdrawn."--Gazette Notice, Sept. 1826.]

[Footnote 175: Ross's Almanack.]

SECTION XIII.

To preserve the continuity of this narrative, it may be advisable to give throughout the incidents
which relate to Macquarie Harbour. The short but severe government (1824) of Lieutenant Wright
was superseded by Captain Butler (1825), of whom the common testimony is favorable. Its economical
results will be comprehended in that general view of prison labor, reserved for the close of
this volume. He extended cultivation, and thus mitigated the sufferings of the prisoners; and
by building ships, varied the industry of the men--many of whom went down for punishment, but
returned skilful mechanics.

Of all the thousands professing to bring back its consolation to the wretched, not one minister
had been found--perhaps not sought for--to try there the remedies of the gospel. That a Wesleyan
missionary ventured, entitles him to the esteem of mankind. Governor Arthur suggested, and
even entreated this direction of missionary labours: he wrote to Joseph Butterworth, M.P.,
and to the Colonial-office, and the Rev. Mr. Schofield was appointed to enter this moral desert.
On his arrival in 1829, he heard terrific accounts of the perils of that place: he was told,
that his labors would be useless, and his life sacrificed. He hesitated for a time; but Arthur
declared that such a post of danger, he, as a soldier, should consider one of honor.

Mr. Schofield proved that he was neither deficient in zeal nor prudence. The place prepared
for his ministry was, indeed, comfortless: the wind overpowered his voice, and his congregation
shivered with cold; but to the men it was a new era. Having discoursed on the advantages of
knowledge, forty-seven prisoners requested instruction; and, assisted by Mr. Commissary Lempriere,
and countenanced by the commandant, he taught many to read. Capt. Butler marked a change in
the temper of the men: punishments fell off one half; several were united with the wesleyan
society; and on the missionary's recommendation, their stay was shortened.

They only should ask the reality of such repentance, who have endeavoured to reform the wicked.
One man was specially pointed out to Messrs. Backhouse and Walker: the change in his conduct
was great, and its effects visible: his demeanour, his countenance, and, said the commandant,
"his very voice was changed." He had lost his arm by an accident, which nearly deprived him
of life. He had formed a cave at the base of the island, reached by a steep slippery descent.
It was here Mr. Backhouse joined him, as he knelt down on the rough floor of his cold cavern
to adore the Almighty, for granting the privilege of solitude! Strange meeting, and strange
subject of thanksgiving!

Messrs. Backhouse and Walker, of the Society of Friends, travelled these colonies (1831 to
1836), chiefly engaged in religious labors, and principally to admonish the prisoners. The
volume, of which Backhouse was the author, attests their industry and accurate observation,
while performing a mission, which the moral weight of their connections rendered of great moment.
To understand this record of their labors, some acquaintance with science is requisite, and
not less a knowledge of quaker modes of thought. The adventurous and buoyant spirit of the
writer, which carried him into odd situations, is sometimes irresistibly droll, in contrast
with formal phrases. He was a gentleman of prudence and sagacity: "he lifted up his heart to
God; took his pocket compass," and thus escaped some perils, both by sea and land; and carried
to England a reputation, from which detraction has taken nothing, and which friendship would
scarcely desire to improve.

The capture of the Cyprus in Recherche Bay, on the voyage to Macquarie Habour, was a stirring
episode in the history of transportation. It excited vast interest in Great Britain, and was
dramatised at a London theatre. The prisoners, who wage war with society, regarded the event
with exultation; and long after, a song, composed by a sympathising poet, was propagated by
oral tradition, and sung in chorus around the fires in the interior. This version of the story
made the capture a triumph of the oppressed over their oppressors. The stanzas set forth the
sufferings of the prisoners by the cruelty of their masters, who they vainly attempted to please.
It related their flight from torture to the woods, and drew but a dreary picture of the life
of an outlaw. It passed through the details of conviction and embarkation, and then described
the dashing seamanship of the pirates in managing the bark, once destined to carry them to
that place of suffering; but which bore "bold Captain Swallow" to the wide ocean and liberty.
Such was the song; but the facts were different. In August, 1829, thirty-one prisoners embarked
on board the Cyprus; among them was Swallow, a seaman, who eighteen years before had cut out
a schooner at Port Jackson, and was afterwards transported to Van Diemen's Land in the Deveron,
Captain Wilson.

This man, before he landed, exemplified remarkable courage. A dreadful storm disabled the vessel;
the rigging was in fragments: it became necessary to cut away a portion of the wreck, which
would probably cost the adventurer his life. The captain called for a volunteer, and all being
silent was himself about to ascend, when Swallow remarking that his own life was of little
moment, accomplished the perilous task. Perhaps presuming on this service, he was found secreted
on board the Deveron on its homeward voyage, and was delivered to the British admiral at Rio;
he, however escaped, got to London, was retaken and returned to this colony. Several others
were capital respites, who had been guilty of atrocious crimes.

These men were entrusted to the charge of Lieut. Carew, and a guard of ten soldiers. On board
they had provision for four hundred men for six months, with a scanty supply of water. When
he received the prisoners, Lieut. Carew was warned of their desperate character by the gaoler,
though not of the precise nature of their crimes. The ammunition supplied was, however, insufficient--ten
rounds each man: to spare the powder, the muskets were not often charged. The berths of the
soldiers were below, and the opening only sufficient to emerge unarmed: that of the prisoners
was too small to permit their lying down: one opening admitted air, without bars or fastenings,
and could not be closed day or night. It was necessary to exercise on deck, and at the time
of the capture the number allowed was exceeded, it is said by the connivance of the convict
sailors. Several of the prisoners had before been relieved of their irons: among the rest,
Swallow, the pirate captain; and when the assault commenced, there were nine, and soon after
sixteen engaged in the fray. There were only two sentinels, and one other soldier unarmed on
deck. Lieut. Carew had left the vessel to fish, accompanied by the surgeon, the mate, a soldier,
and the prisoner Popjoy. A few minutes after, he heard the firing of a musket, and hastened
towards the vessel; but when he reached her side she was taken. The struggle with the sentinels
seems to have been severe; and one of the soldiers below fired a shot, which passed between
the arm of Swallow and his side. The mutineers compelled them to surrender by pouring down
water into the hold, and threatening to stifle them if resistance were prolonged: they were
also in danger of suffocation from their own gunpowder. Carew implored the pirates to give
up the vessel, and promised oblivion: when attempting to board, they pointed several muskets
at his breast. At length he consented to go ashore, with the soldiers and thirteen prisoners,
who refused to share in the adventure; and, in all, forty-five were landed at different points
of the bay. The pirates gave them one sheep, a few pieces of beef, thirty pounds of flour,
and half a bag of biscuit, with a small quantity of spirit and sugar; and at dawn sailed from
the coast. The refusal of a boat, cut off all immediate communication with the port, and gave
time for considerable progress. The Cyprus was without charts, but several of the mutineers
were well acquainted with navigation.

The sufferings of the party on shore were inexpressible: they distributed one quarter of biscuit
daily, and subsisted chiefly on muscles, found for some time, until a spring-tide covered them.
Morgan and Popjoy set out the next day for Hobart, and attempted to cross a river, with their
garments tied on their backs: they were driven back by the natives, and were obliged to return,
having lost their clothes. Five men started to head the Huon, and thus reach Hobart; and were
saved from starvation, only by the party sent down to meet them. Morgan and Popjoy, under the
direction of Carew, and encouraged by his lady, who displayed extraordinary fortitude, constructed
a coracle of wicker work, about twelve feet long, formed of the wattle: they covered it with
hammock cloth, and overlaid it with boiled soap and resin mingled, which they happened to possess.
In this frail bark they boldly ventured to sea; and, notwithstanding a strong south breeze,
happily found the Orelia at Partridge Island, twenty miles distant. Contrary winds had compelled
that vessel to put back to the island, and boats were instantly forwarded to the relief of
the sufferers, who for two days had been without sustenance. Though several had received severe
contusions in the capture, and experienced much privation during the thirteen days detention,
no life was lost.

The circumstances attending the capture were subject to the investigation of a court martial.
Lieutenant Carew was charged with neglecting the proper precautions, though warned of the extreme
peril which demanded his vigilance; that he proceeded on a fishing excursion; that during his
absence the vessel was surprised and seized; that he exhibited professional incapacity, and
had been guilty of a breach of the articles of war. This trial lasted five days, and was fully
reported. The evidence is conflicting, and especially respecting those incidents which were
supposed to suggest the capture to the prisoners: such as the neglect of the fire-arms, and
the indulgence of the prisoners by a removal of their irons, and their access to the deck.
On the other hand, the testimony was positive and multiplied, that Carew had guarded the prisoners
with great steadiness and rigour. That he apprehended no danger was certain--his wife and children
were aboard; but he forgot that the desire of liberty makes men quick and desperate, and that
they who had the miseries of Macquarie Harbour before them, made light of life.

The arrangements of the vessel did not, however, admit of proper precautions. When two of these
men, in company with sixteen other prisoners, were sent down three years after to the penal
settlement, there were ten soldiers to guard them: two only were on deck at once. Their prison
was railed in, and closed down with triple bolts: the sentinels were doubled, and some sat
continually in sight of the prisoners.[176]

The pirates proceeded to the Friendly Islands, and thence to the Islands of the Japannese,
where seven deserted, and the rest passed towards China. Four seamen presented themselves in
a boat, having Edward on the stern, to a vessel at Whampoa, and stated that they had belonged
to a lost ship of that name. Swallow was one of them: he was examined by the committee of supercargoes
at Canton, and produced a sextant on which was the name of Waldron, of the Edward. This name
Swallow assumed, and said that he was captain of the Edward, of Durham; related his voyages
to various ports of South America, the Sandwich Islands, and Japan. Compelled to abandon his
vessel, injured by the fire of the Japannese, the crew had divided into parties, of which himself
and companions were one. This deposition was forwarded to the company's secretary, and passages
were given free to Swallow and three others. A few days after he had sailed, four more appeared:
Davis, who gave his name as Stanley, was examined; but he had forgotten the assumed name of
the captain, and called him Wilson--this led to minuter inquiries, and he was sent home a prisoner.
Information was instantly forwarded, and reached England before Swallow arrived with his companions,
and a warrant was issued for their detention: the three were taken, but Swallow had left the
ship at Margate, and for a time escaped.

Watts, Davis, and Swallow, were ultimately tried for this offence by the Admiralty Court, in
London: the two first were executed, and Swallow was acquitted. It is said that the proof of
his participation, except by compulsion, was incomplete. The events which led to their conviction
were curiously coincident. The Thames police magistrate was unable to proceed, and they might
have been discharged; but the police clerk had studied the Hue and Cry, and was struck with
their resemblance to the description. Popjoy, now in England,[177] pardoned for his good conduct
at the capture, had been recently before the magistrate for some trifling offence, and to interest
his worship had given the story of the capture, the coracle, and all incidents of his intrepidity.
He was thus soon found out by the police, and gave full proof of identity. He stated their
crimes, their names, and secret marks which were discovered on their persons: one of them,
the very day of the capture, had the figure of a mermaid punctured on his arm. Mr. Capon, the
gaoler of Hobart Town, was in London,[178] and thus was able to supply important particulars.

Several were forwarded to Van Diemen's Land, and tried by Judge Pedder: they pleaded that their
concurrence was involuntary. The chief question was the actual position of the vessel; whether
or not on the high seas. The military jury were not disposed to hesitate on this point, and
when asked repeatedly, whether they found a place shut in between two heads the high seas,
they answered, without hesitation, "we do." Only John Cam suffered death in Van Diemen's Land.
Robert M'Guire was tried last for this offence: in the scuffle, he wounded a soldier, who had
attempted to strike him, and whose testimony was decisive: he stood sentry, with a military
cross-belt and bayonet fixed; and was recollected by his refusal of liquor, which he warned
his comrades would prove their destruction.

The chief advantage of Macquarie Harbour was its total isolation; but the opening of the country
from the Derwent to the Gordon, destroyed this seclusion. The bar gradually rising, became
more dangerous: the place was too distant for supervision or supply; its barren soil allowed
no variety of labour or produce. The decaying buildings were of little worth: there was nothing
removable, except the doors and windows. These were shipped on board the Frederick, of one
hundred tons; and all being ready for sea, on the 11th January, 1834, Mr. Taw, the pilot, as
captain, embarked with the master shipwright, Mr. Hoy, the mate, ten prisoners of the crown,
and a corporal's guard. They were detained by adverse winds, and the pilot allowed the prisoners
to land to wash their clothing, all except one; they returned with great apparent cheerfulness.
Two of the soldiers were permitted to fish near a neighbouring rock, and thus only two remained
on board: while one of these, allured into the forecastle, listened to the singing of a convict,
the prisoners on deck handed out the arms. Messrs. Hoy and Taw endeavoured to recover possession,
both by persuasion and force: there was a short scuffle, and shots were fired: the balls passed
near the gentlemen in the cabin, though they were not injured. Remonstrance being useless,
they surrendered, and with the soldiers now recalled from the rock, were sent on shore: thus,
although the military and civil officers were nearly equal in number, the mutineers accomplished
their purpose without loss of life. They sent next day a quantity of provisions, small in amount,
but, considering the voyage before them, more than such men could have been expected to spare.
The soldiers, gratified by their fairness, forgot their own position in sympathy for the liberated
men, and gave them cheers and good wishes. On the morning after, the wind became fair, and
a light breeze carried them beyond danger.

When the mutineers had gained possession of the ship, John Barker, a mariner, was chosen captain:
he could take an observation, and direct a ship's course; his mate was John Fair, and several
others were sailors. By carrying too much canvas they strained the vessel, which required their
constant efforts at the pump. They proposed to run to Valdavia, South America: they suffered
from a gale of wind of nine days duration, which they weathered with great difficulty, and
saw land on the 26th of February, having been six weeks on their passage. They resolved to
abandon the brig: they had three carpenters on board, by whom the launch was decked and rigged,
and they left the Frederick with her channel plates under water. Having landed, they discovered
an Indian ploughing with a wooden share: from him they could not obtain supplies; they, however,
found that they were in the neighbourhood of Valdavia, and soon approached the battery of that
port, and were humanely received by the inhabitants. On examination they declared the entire
facts of their escape, and were allowed to reside under promises of protection. They appealed
to the officials as patriots, and implored them to take their lives rather than to restore
them to the British. A few months after, H. M. S. Blond, Commodore Mason, excited their alarm;
it however passed over: several married, and the governor and his lady honored the nuptials
of the pirate captain with their presence. Shortly after, they were put under friendly arrest,
Commodore Mason having applied for them, and made some preparations to seize them by force;
sending an armed boat, which the Americans repelled. The second "governor" was not equally
favorable, but was conciliated by the promise of Barker and three others to build him a boat:
this accomplished, they seized her and absconded. The governor exasperated at the loss, and
their perfidy--probably excited by his harsh treatment, and their constant apprehension of
capture--arrested and delivered up their companions to the Blond; who were sent first to England,
and then to Van Diemen's Land.

They were tried in 1837: one of their number raised an objection, which was referred to the
English judges, and decided in their favor. The defence was very ingenious: admitting the vessel
was taken, it had never been finished; it belonged to no port; it had received no name: it
was canvas, rope, boarding, and trenails, put together shipwise--yet it was not a legal ship:
the seizure might be theft, but not piracy! Upon the whole, the prisoners conducted themselves
well: however criminal the escape, their kindness to the people they overpowered; their unusual
unanimity, and prudent acknowledgment of their real circumstances; their appeal to the patriots
for sympathy, and the ingenuity of their defence,--must be admitted as exhibiting qualities
by no means despicable.

But never was the government more culpable, or the prisoners less so, than in the instance
of the Badger, a vessel of twenty-five tons, freighted with provisions for the East Bay Neck
military station (1833). She was a fast sailer, and well found, and in charge of a master mariner,
a convict, and convict seamen. The escape was joined, and probably planned, by Darby, late
a lieutenant in the royal navy, and present at the battle of Navarino: a man of small stature
but great daring. On his passage to the colony he had been implicated in a plot to take the
vessel, which was partly known to a notorious receiver on board,[179] who expected some favor
by informing. The plotters intended to shut down the soldiers and officer, to run for the American
coast, and there allow those who thought proper to land, or to attend the vessel to her destination.
Darby declared that, buried on the shores of America, he had considerable treasure. On his
arrival in Van Diemen's Land the affair on board was made known to the Governor, by whom Darby
was told, that if ever he attempted to abscond, or to enlist others in the enterprise, he should
suffer all the law could inflict. He was, however, placed at the signal station, and afterwards
appointed to assist the water bailiff, and thus had always in view the means of escape! A convict
clergyman, employed as tutor by a member of council, was the companion of his flight. The loss
of this vessel exemplified the laxity of official oversight, where most required. No one could
be surprised at the escape, which good men suffering in a good cause would have naturally ascribed
to the favor of Providence.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 176: Backhouse's Narrative.]

[Footnote 177: This man had been transported, when eleven years of age, for horse-stealing.
He was lost off the coast of Boulogne. Swallow died at Port Arthur.]

[Footnote 178: On the affair of Ikey Solomon.]

SECTION XIV.

The escapes of prisoners might be called romantic, could romance enter the province of crime.
While the first fleet were at anchor off Teneriffe, John Powers slipped down into a boat attached
to the Alexander transport. He boarded a foreign ship: his offer to enter as seaman was refused.
He then landed beneath some insuperable rocks: assisted by the governor of the island, his
retreat was soon found.

Such was the first absconder. The determination to escape from New South Wales, induced the
prisoners to listen to every project, and to commit their lives to boats of the most imperfect
structure, in which they were usually lost. But Bryant, an expiree, his wife and two children,
and seven convicts, escaped in a small fishing boat (1790). He had purchased a compass and
quadrant, and obtained a chart of his intended course. They provided food for the voyage, and
the boat was in excellent trim; they were met at Timor by the crew of the Pandora, sent to
the southern seas to arrest the mutineers of the Bounty. Bryant professed to have suffered
shipwreck: he was kindly received by the Dutch. He died at Batavia; also one of his children
and two of his companions: the rest were afterwards seized, and conveyed to England, where
the story of their sufferings excited the public compassion, and they were merely detained
in Newgate for the unexpired term of their sentence.[180]

Their nautical intrepidity and their comparative success, inspirited future attempts. But the
most celebrated project was concocted by Irish convicts, who proposed an overland passage to
China! Of forty-four men and nine women absent, the greater part perished on this curious enterprise.[181]
Some, after the absence of several weeks, re-appeared, exhausted with fatigue and hunger. The
Governor, finding it impossible to prevent elopement by punishment, attempted to convince them
by experience. He furnished some of the strongest with provisions, and appointed them conductors,
that they might proceed as far as possible towards the desired land: they returned, only partially
convinced that flight in that direction was hopeless.

The imagination of the prisoners pictured an elysium beyond the mountains. A seductive rumour
long prevailed, that in the interior a community of white persons were living in primitive
innocence; but many years elapsed, ere the notion obtained the consistence of a story. In 1833,
an account was circulated in England, that white people were found several days journey from
the north coast of New Holland, in a village enclosed by a wall to defend them from the natives.
They spoke in Dutch, and stated that their ancestors, among whom were twelve females, came
from a distant land; that their vessel was broken; that they travelled far towards the rising
sun; that many died by fatigue, and the rest settled on that spot--a beautiful valley, on the
borders of a lake. A full description of their habits and customs was given in the Leeds Mercury,
but which can have no interest to such as disbelieve their existence.[182]

The Young Lachlan, a vessel the property of Capt. Howard, was seized at the Derwent, by sixteen
prisoners (1819). The sails were bent; the rudder was on board: she was freighted and provisioned
for a voyage to Port Jackson. She lay outside the cove, and was to drop down the river on the
morrow. The four seamen were surprised, and shut down below: the darkness of the night and
a strong wind favored their escape; passing the battery, unseen by the guard. At daybreak the
pilot boat, with, a party of the 48th regiment, gave chase: a sloop, the property of Mr. Birch,
with another detachment, followed. The boat found the seamen on Bruné Island, but both vessels
returned without any other success.

Arrived on the coast of Java, the robbers destroyed the vessel by fire. They then presented
themselves to the authorities as shipwrecked mariners: their story was believed; but at length
they were suspected of piracy, and imprisoned. Some of them confessed: all, except five, died
at Batavia, to which place they were transmitted, and the survivors were conveyed to this colony
by the St. Michael. The Young Lachlan not being on the high seas their offence was not piracy:
they were therefore charged with stealing only. Their punishment was necessary, but who could
forget their temptation?

One of the more common methods of elopement was to hide in the hold of a ship, often with the
connivance of the sailors, until the vessel had cleared. Scarcely did a ship quit the coast
during the first years of the colony, without discovering, mostly too soon for the culprits,
their concealment. Sometimes, to stir them from their stowage, the vessel was fumigated. Ships
calling at Van Diemen's Land often delivered up absconders, found after they had weighed anchor.

When secreted runaways were enabled to avoid detection until the ship had advanced far on her
voyage, they were conveyed to England, and usually surrendered to the authorities. A soldier,
on looking down the hatchway of the Dromedary, when returning to England (1820), saw a spectre
walking the deck below, who requested a glass of water: the soldier alarmed, made known the
vision; and after a search, a stranger was pulled out from among the planks with which the
vessel was laden. Having said "we," repeatedly, in speaking of his condition, the presence
of another was suspected, and further search discovered his companion.[183]

Morgan, a Welshman, who concealed himself, was more fortunate: having made a considerable sum
by his labor, which he was desirous of carrying home unbroken, he concealed himself in the
hold of a vessel, and after a few days appeared on deck. He was carried to London, and handed
to the police, when he coolly thanked the captain for his passage! He had satisfied the law
before he ventured on his voyage.[184]

The penalties on merchantmen conveying prisoners in a clandestine manner, were sufficiently
severe. The most remarkable was the instance of the General Gates, an American vessel, which
carried off ten prisoner mechanics, and one free man;--a double violation of the local laws.
The Dromedary, store ship, was instantly sent in pursuit, and captured the vessel at New Zealand.
An action for twelve thousand pounds was instituted by the Governor, and awarded by the court
(1820). The judge, in his address, dwelt chiefly on the ingratitude of the defendant, who,
"being permitted to partake in a valuable fishery, had abused the hospitality of the country,
and had gone into low public-houses to entice away their best workmen!" This, indeed, was the
chief grievance, and occasioned the rigour of the pursuit and capture--a stretch of power,
it was deemed proper to compromise.

It was made lawful to arrest any persons suspected of being illegally at large, and to detain
them until they "proved otherwise;" the onus of proof resting with the person apprehended:
indemnity was provided for those who did anything in furtherance of the act. In defence of
these powers it was alleged, that tenacity of the forms of British freedom was unsuited to
a state of society, where of the adults more than one half were prisoners; and to distinguish
them was impossible. The government maintained that free persons, arrested in bona fide error,
were bound to regard their consequent sufferings as a tribute to the welfare of the country;
but considering the ungentle spirit and ruthless instruments of convict government, it was
necessary to check these prerogatives with a considerable responsibility.

The arrest of Mackay, a free man, at Swan River, indicated the danger of undefined powers,
and the boundless arrogance of office. He was seized by the commander of a vessel and delivered
to the Phoenix hulk, New South Wales, where, loaded with irons of unusual weight, his clothing
branded, he was confined with prisoners destined for a penal settlement. Having been brought
up by a writ from the judges, he was discharged, and retaken: again the court interfered, and
the man--never known as a prisoner, against whom nothing but a general suspicion existed; who
had been torn away from a distant colony, and exposed to the contemptuous treatment of those
through whose hands he passed--owed his final liberation to the interference of an advocate,
and the firmness of the judges. He obtained £200 damages, against which the government appealed,
unsuccessfully, as excessive!

Absconding has been punished with various degrees of severity. By the first governors it was
held a venial offence: before the law provided any specific penalty, it was usually flogging
or a penal settlement. A capital respite was, however, sent to Port Macquarie: within three
months he absconded, with several companions, and started to reach Timor: on his re-capture,
he was executed without further trial (1823).[185]

A colonial law, of 1827, made it capital to escape from a penal settlement. It was intended
to prevent a recurrence of those evils which resulted from the Macquarie Harbour elopements.
That it intimidated a single person, to whom the chance of escape was presented, is extremely
doubtful: that it rendered their efforts more desperate, and their course more sanguinary,
is far more probable. No one will contend for the right of a prisoner to burst the bonds imposed
by a sentence, yet will it never appear to justify the sacrifice of life. Such laws are useless:
they outrage the common sentiments of mankind--more criminal than the offences they intend
to prevent: they belong to what Lord Bacon stigmatised as "the rubrics of blood."

Their extreme diffidence of each other, has rendered the combined opposition of prisoners impossible.
A guard of two or three soldiers is sufficient to intimidate hundreds, and to prevent an open
effort to escape. The sentinels have, generally, displayed forbearance and consideration--the
honorable characteristics of the British soldier.

Governor Arthur recommended a declaratory statute, to subdue any doubts respecting their right
to shoot absconders, which seemed common among the military. That right had never been called
in question; and in two instances only, during fourteen years, was it exercised in this country.
The sense of responsibility is a healthy emotion: promptitude in taking the life of a runaway,
however tolerated or authorised by law, could never be remembered by a soldier but as an odious
execution.[186]

The piratical seizure of vessels lately, has not been common: escape is easy in other forms.
The elopement of individuals has been attended with no great perils, since the establishment
of the surrounding colonies. Craft of small burden have been sometimes taken, and at the close
of the voyage dismissed. Prisoners have passed as merchandise, or boldly submitting to examination,
have been lost in the crowd of emigrants. A contrivance was recently discovered, by the fatal
consequences which followed it: a woman was enclosed by her husband in a case, and on arriving
at Port Phillip was found dead.

These instances comprehend most of those forms of escape which are found in the colonial annals.
They prove how powerful the passion for liberty, with which, when united to common intelligence,
the threats of legal vengeance, or the vigilance of official guards, cannot cope. The same
instinct, however, which induces men to break their bonds, restrains many more from transgression,
and is a powerful auxiliary to the laws.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 179: Ikey Solomon.]

[Footnote 180: Collins's New South Wales.]

[Footnote 181: Ibid.]

[Footnote 182: Clarke, executed at Hobart Town (1835), and who for five years wandered among
the natives of New South Wales, asserted he had seen an isolated colony of Malays, or some
other nation, the remnant of a shipwreck, which had existed for ages on the borders of a lake
in the far interior to the north of Sydney. This he affirmed to the last moment of his life.
If reliance can be placed upon his testimony, the village he described is doubtless the same,
and is yet to be discovered. "Clarke addressed the people from the scaffold, acknowledging
his crimes, and imploring all who heard him to avoid the dissipated course, which had led him
to so wretched and ignominious an end." Upon this execution Dr. Ross adds--"It is a matter
of consolation that we have a pastor, possessed of the very peculiar--we had almost said tact--but
we should rather say endowments, with which Mr. Bedford is gifted, for leading to repentance,
and affording all possible consolation to the miserable beings in their last extremity."--Courier,
August, 1835.]

[Footnote 183: Cunningham's New South Wales.]

[Footnote 184: Gazette, 1824.]

[Footnote 185: James Hawkins, a celebrated pugilist and pickpocket, was not less remarkable
for his escapes. He was transported to Hobart Town, where he found several persons who invited
him to become a bushranger: he refused, and devoted all his efforts to escape. In this he succeeded:
soon re-transported for life, again he stowed himself on board a vessel, and returned to Weyhill,
and was again transported. On his way to the hulks he once more got off his irons, but was
secured (1820). In gaol he was orderly and quiet, and refused all enterprises which might have
compromised his life.]

[Footnote 186: Par. Papers.]

SECTION XV.

The principles of penal government recognised in the times of Governor Arthur, may be best
ascertained from his despatches and orders, and from the writings of Dr. Ross, who, if not
directly assisted by Arthur, was inspired by his opinions. Whether those principles were practically
applied, will be known by reference to other testimony. The deviations must not, however, be
ascribed exclusively, either to the Governor's connivance, or to the intrinsic defect of his
system. He could not act alone, and the agents he employed were sometimes incapable, and sometimes
corrupt. In his own writings, he repeatedly alludes to the gradual approximation to what he
deemed perfection of detail: it cost him the labor of years.

The estimate he formed, philanthropists are slow to entertain: one-third of those who arrived
in these colonies, he rated incorrigible; the rest, chiefly affected by the prospect of reward
or the dread of punishment, and indifferent to abstract good. In tracing crimes to their causes
he largely ascribes them to poverty, and the pressure of classes on each other. He enunciated
a novel view of the mental character of criminals--that they were subjects of delirium; that
they saw every object through a false medium; and that no treatment could be successful which
did not restrain them by an enlightened rigour. This view, given in a code of rules[187] for
the management of road parties, was attributed to the reasonings of a medical member of his
government: the notion it embodies, he himself ascribed to long experience in the management
of prisoners. His observation supplied the facts; his councillor, perhaps, constructed the system.

He believed that to remove the opportunities of crime, was the only successful method of general
prevention; that to keep the convicts quiet, to withdraw all external excitement was essential
to successful treatment of their mental malady. He compared the ordinary offender to a steed
untrained: very impatient of the curb and rein. The discipline of the government, either by
its own officers or the master, he likened to a breaking in. Under the first application of
the bridle, more facile tempers became at once submissive and docile; or if not--if the man
threw the master--then came the government with heavier burdens and more painful restraint:
he was caught, and resistance was borne down. The milder servitude being unsuccessful, then
came magisterial admonition; then the lash; then sequestration on the roads; then irons; then
the penal settlement--with its stern aspect, its ponderous labor, and prompt torture; in which
mercy wrought through terror and pain, and hope itself was attired in lighter chains.

Arthur alleged that his system was inductive: reared upon a foundation of facts, its classification
was self-constituted: every step in the several gradations of a prisoner's punishment was the
result of his own will; the first, by his crime against English society, the residue by his
misconduct in servitude. It was in his power, when delivered to his master, to work out his
own liberty, without knowing again the frown of a magistrate, or the darkness of a dungeon:
it was in his choice to delay deliverance until death. Thus the distribution and separation
vainly attempted by a direct management of government, was better done by the prisoners themselves:
they determined their own merit by their actual position, where they awaited pardon and liberty,
or gradual descent to despair.

Arthur watched with great diligence the operation of his system. The character of most masters
was known: they were bound to make annual returns of the number and conduct of their men. Their
recommendation was required to procure the prisoner's indulgence: his police character was
drawn out in form--the parliamentary papers shew into what minute particulars those documents
entered; even an admonition of the magistrates was noted, and made part of the case. Black
and white books were kept, in which meritorious actions and the reverse were recorded. The
term of preparatory servitude was four, six, or eight years--as the sentence was for seven,
fourteen years, or life; then a ticket-of-leave allowed the prisoner to find his own employ,
to enjoy his own earnings; subject to the surveillance of the police, and to a forfeiture for
breach of its regulations.

Arthur described the police as the pivot of his system: it comprehended surveillance and detection.
The establishment of district courts, in which a paid magistrate resided, was an essential
element of its success. The masters had a correctional authority at hand: a few miles, often
a few minutes, brought them within the police court, and the punishment ordered followed the
offence by a very short interval. The police constables, mostly prisoners of the crown, were
selected from each ship to assist the recognition of their fellow prisoners, and they were
rewarded for every runaway they arrested. They often shortened their own sentence by procuring
the conviction of others; often, too, they obtained considerable sums, and even instant liberty,
by the discovery of an outlaw. They were acute, expert, and, we are told by Arthur, vigilant
beyond all men he ever knew. They were objects of fear and detestation.

The strong will of the prisoners thus encountered opposition on every hand. They were hedged
round with restrictions; they were at the mercy of the magistrate, and subject to the lash,
for offences which language is not sufficiently copious to distinguish with nicety.[188] Their
unsupported accusations recoiled on themselves. They were entitled to complain, but the evidence
they could generally command, was heard with natural suspicion. So well did they understand
the hopelessness of contest, that they rarely replied, where a defence sometimes aggravated
their punishment.

The convict was subject to the caprice of all his master's household: he was liable every moment
to be accused, and punished.[189] Unknown, without money, he had no protector or advocate:
one magistrate could authorise fifty lashes; one hundred could be inflicted by the concurrence
of a second. It was asserted by Arthur, that the statement of their liabilities produced an
expression of dismay in the countenances of convicts newly arrived. The indefinite character
of these offences; the boundless discretion of the magistrate; the influence of the master;
the presumption always against the accused; the dreadful nature of several of the punishments--doubtless
created in many the recklessness of defiance and despair. A prisoner's sentence might be extended
one or three years; he might be doomed to a penal settlement and chains. Nor could he liberate
himself from his servitude: he came back from the triangles or road party, and stood at his
master's door.

The determined resistance of change, except for punishment; the indissoluble tie of men to
masters--was one part of Arthur's plan. The knowledge that submission was the only chance of
happiness, caused many to yield to their destiny without a struggle; and where masters were
humane, the connection lasted, without murmuring or oppression, until the close; but with many
more, it was a period of misery, mental and bodily--the fierce passions breaking into open
war, and seeking nothing but revenge or freedom. The rolls of the muster-master exhibit curious
instances of this long struggle: there are several now before the writer, in which punishments
succeed each other with a frequency so terrible, that the mind is only relieved by the belief
that sensibility is destroyed by incurable misery.

Governor Arthur addressed a despatch, on "secondary punishments," to Viscount Goderich, intended
to answer the report of the select committee of 1832. He thought the witnesses were not conversant
with the state of the prisoners--a fact not surprising, since even the effect of English penitentiaries
was debated under their very walls. The gentle system of Governor Macquarie was a tradition
among the criminal population of Great Britain; but in this country, colonised at a later date,
and by settlers of a higher class, the advantages of the convict were small, and his control
more complete. Arthur thus delineated the condition of the assigned servant: deprived of indulgence,
living in the interior, employed in clearing and cultivating forest land, allowed no wages;
idleness, even looks betraying an insurgent spirit, exposing him to the chain gang or the triangle;
deprived of liberty, subject to the caprice of a family, and to the most summary laws. He was
a slave, except that his master was not trusted with the lash, and his claim for service terminable.
True, he was well fed, while many in England labored hard, and yet were hungry and poor; but
nothing reconciled the prisoner to bondage: he compared his condition not with the British
pauper, but theirs who, though working in the same field, were masters of their own labor.
He asserted that the bravado of persons, who affected indifference when ordered for Macquarie
Harbour, was fully answered by the murderers who, to enjoy a momentary escape, ventured their
lives; by the desperate efforts of many to conceal themselves in vessels, deprived of food
for days, and tortured until their limbs mortified; by the despair of many rioters who arrived
in the Eliza, who, dejected and stupified by grief, soon drooped and died. He maintained that
transportation, though not absolutely successful, was to be preferred, as frequently most dreaded,
reformatory, and final.

He maintained, that the current reports respecting transportation deserved no credence, and
were unsafe as foundations of public policy. Often, from the most selfish motives, the most
delusive statements had been forwarded by prisoners. He instanced a woman from Liverpool, who
arrived with her four children, allured by the representation of her husband, and sent out
by the charity of his prosecutors; and who had informed her that, beside £60 per annum, he
was lodged and fed for his labor. In this case, however, the man wrote falsely; but at that
moment there were many who might have made the statement with truth.

In the despatches of Governor Arthur there is much acute observation and just inference. He
had actually lessened abuses, until they became not very common or very flagrant: by collecting
men in the employ of government under a more rigid system of superintendence, he had curtailed
their indulgence, and made their condition more irksome. But it is well known to every colonist,
that throughout his administration some prisoners were favored with greater liberty than others;
that they accumulated property, and had at command whatever money could buy. He often, with
a discretion both wise and humane, mitigated the severity of a sentence and alleviated the
domestic desolation of a wife, by granting some indulgence to her husband. It is told to his
credit as a man, although it does not add to the weight of his despatches.

The enunciation of principles was not common in the writings of Governor Arthur; he, however,
states his view of the objects contemplated by punishment. He held that the severity of a penalty
was to be measured by the operation of the crime on society,--or the views taken by legislators
of its effect. Unhappily, this theory overlooks the fact, that penalties are usually for the
protection of classes, rather than communities. The severe laws against poaching have never
been vindicated on the principles of equity or national right: they are the laws of an aristocracy,
for the protection of its pleasures. The unlimited power over life and liberty claimed by this
doctrine, would excuse the Spartan method of anticipating crime. It is the old code of the
opulent and powerful; but it is essentially unjust, fallacious, and therefore useless and wicked.[190]
It is probable, however, that abstract opinions maintained but a slight influence on his actual
policy, and that by his strong perception of the interest of society in the reform of the offender,
he adopted many practical lessons of philanthropy.

Governor Arthur was directed by the Secretary of State to assign the prisoners employed on
public works: such as were unfit for the service of settlers to form into gangs, and employ
on stations distant from the towns. Lord Goderich had come to the conclusion that the service
of government was rather courted than dreaded by the prisoners. This plan was skilfully resisted
by Arthur: he admitted that constables and messengers were favorably situated. So great, however,
were the hardships of those employed in public works, that his conscience was troubled, and
only relieved by remembering that they were the worst of offenders; or, if better conducted,
passed at length into the loan-gang--a condition as preferable to assignment, as was assignment
to the service of the crown: thus balancing the advantages of their last against the severity
of the first stage. He stated their assignment, so far from increasing the severity of punishment,
their faults, and even crimes, would be covered by their masters, to preserve their labor;
their earnings would place them beyond the condition of their class in Great Britain; and when
their fortune should be known, they would never want for successors. But he appealed to a still
more cogent argument. The expense of a convict mechanic to the crown, was one shilling per
day; of a free artizan, seven to ten shillings: the difference would go to the workmen, to
bribe their industry and gratify their vices. It was not, perhaps, known fully to Arthur, that
at the moment he sealed his despatch, forty mechanics lodged in one ward, who earned not much
less than £50 per week, by the leisure hours they enjoyed.[191] It was, however, true, that
the inducement to pay large sums for occasional labor, arose from the difficulty of obtaining
it: few mechanics were transported; so few, as to excite astonishment.[192]

But however exact and successful transportation, in Governor Arthur's opinion, a variety of
causes contributed to excite in England a powerful prejudice against it, and to lead the ministers
to interfere with some of its details of great practical consequence. The gradual amelioration
of the criminal code--a restriction of capital punishments, demanded by the humanity of the
British public--was allowed by the ruling classes with doubt and grudging. Some conspicuous
cases confirmed their predilection in favor of the scaffold. What punishment, they asked, would
transportation have proved to Fontleroy, who from the spoil of his extensive forgeries, might
have reserved an ample fortune? It was reported, and not untruly, that many had carried to
the penal colonies the profit of their crime; that the wife had been assigned to the nominal
service of her husband; or, still more preposterous, the husband committed to the control of
the wife--and were enabled at once to invest their capital in whatever form might promise success.

Several volumes issued in succession from the British press, full of highly colored sketches
of colonial life; in which the advantages possessed by many emancipists, the splendour of their
equipage, and the luxurious profligacy of their lives, were exhibited as the larger prizes
of a fruitful lottery. Among these works, the most popular, that of Cunningham, professed to
delineate the sentiments of the prisoners, from which it might be inferred that few conditions
of human life offered so many chances of gaiety and prosperity.[193]

About the same period, Edward Gibbon Wakefield, of a talented family, and afterwards distinguished
by his connection with colonisation, was imprisoned in Newgate for the abduction of Miss Turner.
During three years' residence he professes to have devoted great attention to the subject of
transportation. Few sessions passed but some prisoner, formerly transported, appeared under
a second charge. In conversing upon their prospects, they described the country of their former
exile in terms of high eulogy. It was the opinion of Wakefield that, as a punishment, it had
no influence in preventing crime. The evidence of several settlers from New South Wales was
of the same character; and M'Queen, a member of parliament, long resident in that country,
stated that he had been often asked what offence would be sufficient to ensure transportation.[194]
The letters received from the prisoners, recorded their good fortune, and were read by their
former acquaintances. They were filled with exaggerations, dictated by vanity or affection;
and seemed to convey an impression that, of their families, they only were fortunate.

A colonist is certainly not entitled to deny, that many strong cases of perversion occurred;
but, except the superiority of diet, and the high value of labor common to new countries when
they prosper at all, the descriptions given were mostly illusive and mistaken. The extreme
misery and degradation endured by many, and to which all were liable, rendered the ordinary
condition of prisoners one which could not have been desired, except by the most wretched of
the people.

New South Wales was regarded, by the laughing portion of the British public, as a perpetual
beggar's opera. One eminent writer said, that the people of these colonies attracted attention
only from the curiosity they excited: mankind were amused to know what form would be assumed
by a community, composed of men who narrowly escaped the executioner. By another they were
compared to an old fashioned infant, which had all the vices and deformity of a corrupt constitution
and precocious passions. The exhibition of a panorama of Sydney in the metropolis of England,
attracted large crowds. It was hardly possible to exaggerate the charms of its scenery, when
clothed in the radiant verdure of the spring; but the dwellings were drawn, not only in their
just proportions, but with all the grace of the pencil--cabins looked like bowers. The poet,
Campbell, struck with the glowing harmony, exclaimed, how delightful to the London thief--beneath
the clear sky and amidst the magnificent forests of Australia,

"Where Sydney Cove its lucid bosom swells"--

to shake the hand he once encountered in the same pocket at Covent Garden theatre! It is thus,
too often, that substantial interests are sacrificed to humour. No one, acquainted with the
minds of prisoners, can imagine that the purest atmosphere, or most exhilarating prospect,
would be half so attractive to a veteran robber, as the murky cellars of the "London Shades."

The writings of Archbishop Whately tended to the same result. Against the principles of transportation
he entered an earnest protest, not only as defeating the primary objects of a penalty, but
as constituting a community charged with the elements of future mischief. He reasoned in his
closet, and formed his conclusions from a process of investigation which was not complete:
he overlooked some facts which tended largely to neutralise the evil, and that suppress or
defeat propensities which thrive in Europe. He made many senatorial converts, and those he
did not convince, in reference to his main proposition, were anxious to obviate his objections.

To meet, however, the views which prevailed, and which were strongly recommended by the parliamentary
committee of 1832, the government determined to increase the rigour of transportation. The
effects of the French revolution, and the pressure of commercial distress, had produced a strong
tendency to crime. In the agricultural districts of England riot and arson were prevalent:
the utmost exertion of the laborer did not preserve his family from want. Depredations upon
game, and other species of rural property, exasperated the legislative class. The hulks were
crowded: it was proposed to establish a penitentiary at Dartmoor, long the site of a French
prison, and employ the convicts in cutting granite for sale; but the discussions in parliament
manifested the strong preference of the agricultural interests for a system of absolute banishment.
It was observed by Peel, that the detention of prisoners exposed the government to endless
annoyance, and before half their time was expired the solicitation of their friends often procured
a remission.

Pending these enquiries, a rumour reached the colony that transportation was abolished. The
papers broke out in the language of wailing and woe: the Courier, especially, gave utterance
to the most passionate grief. The editor described the melancholy visage of the settlers, and
the different expressions of vexation and disappointment which he heard around him. One declaiming
against the perfidy of government, and another delineating the ruin involved in the fatal resolution.
Some threatening to leave the country ruled by covenant breakers, who, in the spirit of reckless
experiment, were not only demolishing the finest imaginable system of penal discipline, but
sacrificing the fortunes of colonists, who had emigrated in the confidence that convicts would
follow them in an uninterrupted stream.[195] These apprehensions were but temporary. The strong
representations of Governor Arthur, and the extreme difficulty of change, secured a further
trial under new conditions.

Lord Melbourne held a consultation with Mr. Stanley. He suggested that the increase of crime
had arisen partly from ignorance of the actual consequences of transportation. He requested
him to reflect upon this topic, and to determine whether it might not be proper to send transgressors
through a more rigorous discipline on their landing, and to stop the comparative ease and comfort
it was customary to enjoy.[196] Mr. Stanley undertook to contrive a scheme, which should terminate
the indifference with which banishment was regarded. He had said that he would render the punishment
of transportation more dreaded than death itself. At his suggestion Lord Melbourne addressed
a letter to the judges, and requested them, when on their circuits, to explain the extent of
torment which banishment included; to select such as they might deem it proper to separate
to a more terrific form of punishment; and to declare, in a public manner, the degree of severity
which would follow a particular sentence.

It was determined that the more hardened should be confined at Norfolk Island or Macquarie
Harbour; and that no prisoner for life should be withdrawn from a penal settlement, until seven
years of his sentence was passed, or until one-third of a shorter period was completed. Then
drafted to the roads: after wearing chains a further five years, he might be assigned to a
master, and commence his probation. The less guilty were to join the road party at once, and
in seven years be liberated from their chains. Mr. Stanley forwarded sixteen persons in the
Southwell, whom he directed should be kept in chains for the first seven years of their bondage.
He thus established the system, distinguished as the "certain and severe" in the orders of
government; and for several years described by the journals, as the "worse than death" system
of Mr. Secretary Stanley.[197]

The object of Stanley was to invest transportation with novel terrors, and to give a more tragic
aspect to the law. He did not, however, reflect, that he who has destroyed hope has also made
the despairing worthless; that the victim will have recourse to violence or insensibility--that
when he cannot rupture he will hug his bonds. He did not perceive that no Englishman would
accept the service of a felon, who for twelve years had experienced the misery of chains--that
it was not as prisoners, but as husbandmen, that the poachers and rioters of England were acceptable
to the Australian farmer; who was reconciled to penal slavery, only when disguised under semi-patriarchal
forms.

The change proposed by Stanley was greatly disliked by Arthur. It was the reverse of his system.
Whatever influences were brought into action by agricultural service, would be lost in a gang.
He foresaw the despondency, the oppression of the prisoners, and the gradual alienation of
the colonists. Arthur referred Stanley's despatch to the executive council, with his own rejoinder.
His system of twelve years bondage and chains was unanimously reprobated: the council concurred
in the opinion of the Governor, that it would break up the gradations of punishment; and unless
sustained by a large reinforcement of military, endanger the public safety and produce habits
of outrage and revenge.[198] Whatever influence these representations possessed, the plan was
abandoned of necessity. The chief justice of New South Wales advised the Governor that the
law had not authorised the arbitrary addition of chains to a sentence of transportation--to
increase the misery, not to add to the safe keeping of the prisoners. Such, on reference, was
the opinion of the English legal authorities, and the men in irons were released.[199]

Whatever the motives of Lord Stanley, the transmission of such an order, without ascertaining
the authority under which it was issued, was a serious official error. It is probable, that
the persons injured had no means of appeal, and deserved no redress; but when it is remembered,
that the law does not profess to determine the moral enormity of an offence by the extent of
punishment, to aggravate a penalty which the legislators deemed equal to the crime--avowedly
to make it more terrible than death itself--was a stretch of official power, which can scarcely
be explained.

St. Paul denounced the judge who smote contrary to the law. Mr. Stanley's encroachment on the
functions of legislation was only more defensible because less corrupt. To repress colonial
disorders, the local government had, indeed, grafted the penalties he prescribed on the colonial
statute book; but the despotic interference of a secretary of state was specially objectionable.
Persons sentenced to transportation for political or agrarian crimes, were not unlikely to
provoke the personal hatred of ministers, and therefore to suffer a vengeance beyond the intention
of the judges, or the spirit of the laws.

To render corruption more difficult, the power of the governors was limited by statute. They
had granted tickets-of-leave for the discovery of outlaws, the detection of serious crimes,
and any service of great public utility. They had been often swayed by feelings of humanity
in hastening the liberation of men, whose families required their care; but an Act "for abolishing
the punishment of death in certain cases,"[200] not only fixed the time when prisoners should
be capable of tickets-of-leave, but abstracted the chief advantages a ticket conferred. They
were excluded from the protection of civil laws, and thus thrown on the mercy of any who might
employ them. These clauses were introduced by Lord Wynford (Sergeant Best), and were intended
to equalise the punishment of offenders, and to prevent an early enjoyment of plunder. This
restriction was, however, practically unjust. The grant of a ticket-of-leave was to enable
a man to procure a livelihood: to deprive him of legal resource, was to invite the swindler
and the cheat to make his earnings and acquisitions their prey. The local courts had hitherto
resisted the injustice by evasion: a record of conviction being required to stay a civil action;
although in the criminal courts it was sufficient to prove that the person accused had been
dealt with as a transported offender.

Lord Wynford's Act made no such distinction. Its provision, probably the result of inadvertence,
was so palpably a contradiction, that it was never acted upon in Van Diemen's Land, and was
earnestly deprecated by all classes. To grant a prisoner liberty to seek subsistence, and yet
suffer any fraudulent person to deprive him of his just wages, could arise only from that confusion
of ideas, too common in legislation on the subject.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 187: "It can scarcely be doubted, that the main body of convicts are under mental
delirium--they see and appreciate every thing through a false medium; and as, from long experience
and close observation, the Lieutenant-Governor is confident that a firm and determined, but
mild and consistent supervision, is the very best to be followed, in order to remove the infirmity
under which they labor, it is the treatment he enjoins shall be uniformly observed!"--Regulations
issued to the Roads' Department.]

[Footnote 188: "Absconding, insubordination, drunkenness, indecent conduct, neglect or wilful
mismanagement of work, neglect of duty, indecent or abusive language, swearing, insolence,
or other disorderly conduct."]

[Footnote 189: Arthur.]

[Footnote 190: Arthur's despatch to Lord Goderich.]

[Footnote 191: It was not uncommon for four in their number to consume one gallon of rum at
a sitting. Incredible as this may appear, it stands upon indubitable testimony; and one of
the witnesses, had he been classical, might have said--Pars magna fui.]

[Footnote 192: Arthur's despatch to Lord Howick, 1832.]

[Footnote 193: "Several went out with me on these very terms: and among them one merry youth
of two-and-twenty, whose father had been transported when he was a child. His elder brother
followed the fortunes of his father by special invitation. On our arrival the elder brother
came alongside, and introduced the younger brother and father (who, of course, were strangers
to each other). 'When may we expect Jem?' was the question put shortly after the preliminary
congratulations."--Two Years, &c., vol. ii. p. 259.

"I shall conclude this subject with a short anecdote, which fully illustrates how little a
convict cares for transportation, or rather how much he prefers it. A gentleman, who came home
passenger in the same vessel with myself, brought with him a convict as a domestic. I asked
him what were his future plans? He replied, that he meant to go and see his mother, if she
was alive; but if she was dead, he, to use his own words, would 'frisk a crib,' (Anglice--rob
a shop) or do something to lag him for seven years again, as he was perfectly aware that he
could not work hard enough to get his living in England."--Widowson's present state of V. D.
Land, 1829. p. 65.

"In order to show the opinions entertained by some of the convicts, as regards the colony,
I will give an extract from one of the sundry letters which I have read, written by them to
their friends in England, using the writer's own language and punctuation, but altering the
spelling. He requests that his wife will come out, and bring their children with her, and then
proceeds as follows: 'I am perfectly well satisfied with my situation thanks be to God that
has placed me under those that does not despise a prisoner. No, my love, I am (not?) treated
as a prisoner but as a free man, there is no one to say a wrong word to me. I have good usage,
plenty of good meat, and clothes with easy work. I have 362 sheep to mind, either of our lads
could do it with ease. The best of men was shepherds. Jacob served for his wife, yea and for
a wife did he keep sheep and so will I, and my love we shall be more happy here than ever we
should be at home if happiness is to be found on the earth. Don't fail to come out I never
thought this country what I have found it. I did expect to be in servile bondage and to be
badly used but I am better off this day than half the people in England, and I would not go
back to England if any one would pay my passage. England has the name of a free country and
this is a bond country, but shame my friends and countrymen where is your boasted freedom.
Look round you, on every side there is distress, rags, want, and all are in one sorrowful state
of want. Happiness and prosperity has long taken their flight from Albion's once happy isle.'
He then alludes to the low price of provisions, and adds--'Except you live in a town you have
no rent to pay, for each builds his own house, no tithes, no poor-rates, and no taxes of any
kind. And this is bondage is it?' There are some other amusing remarks in this original composition,
but the above will suffice to show that convicts lead not always the unhappy life they are
supposed to do, unless through their own bad conduct. The writer of the above letter bears
such an excellent character that his master has sent to England for his wife and family, with
the intention of trying to be of some use to them."--Breton's New South Wales, p. 281.]

[Footnote 194: Potter M'Queen's evidence before the Commons, 1831.]

[Footnote 195: Courier, 1831.]

[Footnote 196: May 20th, 1833.]

[Footnote 197: Stanley's despatch, August, 1833.]

[Footnote 198: February 3rd, 1834.]

[Footnote 199: Par. Pap.: Forbes's evidence.]

[Footnote 200: 2 & 3 9th Will. iv. cap. 42.]

SECTION XVI.

The treatment and disposal of mechanics, craftsmen, and the educated, or "specials," disturbed
the equal operation of the laws.

The artizan, when not adapted for public works, was placed in the loan gang, and lent from
time to time, chiefly to the officers of government, or to such settlers as were deemed worthy
official patronage. They were not authorised to claim wages, but their employers prompted their
industry by its usual recompense. Their value as workmen often secured them an appearance which
surpassed the common means of English artificers, or they expended their earnings during paroxysms
of intemperance. The power to grant the assistance of skilled workmen, and the custom of the
officers to borrow them for their own service, excited unceasing murmurs. Master tradesmen
complained, that their callings were followed by captains and lieutenants, whose journeymen
were the prisoners of the crown, and who, beside the emoluments of office, engrossed the profits
of smiths and carpenters--of tailors and shoemakers. Those settlers, excluded from participation
in the loan labor, denounced the venal partiality of its distribution. Long lists were published
of workmen allotted to the relatives and confidants of the Governor, to display his unwearied
nepotism.

The educated prisoners occasioned still greater complaint. At an early period, many of the
higher functionaries were utterly ignorant of accounts, and were glad to employ the abilities
which transportation placed at their disposal. Curious anecdotes are told of the profits derived
by this class of scribes, by the distribution of royal clemency: thus the indents were altered
by a clerk, who charged £10 for reducing considerably the duration of a sentence.[201] At a
later date, a prisoner offered by letter £15 for his conditional pardon. The bearer gave information
of its contents to another convict in office, who offered to obtain the "royal mercy" for £10,
and he did so.[202] The reliance frequently placed in the fidelity of their penmanship, sometimes
modified the details of punishment.

From the report of a board appointed by Arthur, it appeared that sixty-six were employed in
the various departments. The evidence is valuable, from the statements it contains respecting
the condition and influence of this class. They were represented to be quick, intelligent men,
and were preferred because more easily commanded--if not controlled. Their office hours usually
terminating at 4 o'clock, they obtained considerable sums as book-keepers. All correspondence,
except despatches to the British government, and communications with the judges, passed under
their eye. They were employed in taking depositions, and received bribes for expediting indulgences.
Their acquaintance with the probable demands of the commissariat, was a source of emolument:
they sold information to the shopkeepers, and thus enhanced the price. Arthur professed to
deplore the necessity of their employment; a practice which long survived his government.

It was, indeed, a mournful sight, to behold men of better hopes sink into habits of intemperance;
and for a long series of years pass through a succession of punishments, often for trifling
infractions of the penal code--to see them display the utmost facility in penmanship, and to
hear at every movement the rattle of chains. Yet these prodigal sons of many a desolated house,
were not so much objects of compassion, as those whose peace they had blighted with an incurable
affliction. No one could imagine how many families, distinguished for rank, benevolence, and
piety--known at home as the fortunate and happy--had in these regions unhappy relations, whose
fate must have cast dark shadows on their own. Many, however, protected their kindred from
public dishonor by the change of their names: they not unfrequently were overtaken by crime
and punishment, having long left the dwellings of their fathers, whose reputation they spared
by artifice and silence.

The wives of prisoners, who once moved in the higher circles, often exhibited an example of
complicated virtue. What they took from the misery of their husbands they added to their own;
and even by their participation rendered more intense the mental anguish they came to remove.
Delicately reared, familiar with the comforts of affluence, they resolutely abandoned all.
No entreaty, maternal tears, or offers of support, could change the purpose of conscience and
affection. They gathered up the fragments of their shivered fortunes to venture on a lonely
voyage, and encounter a rough courtesy--generous, when not brutal; to solicit commiseration
from the harsh delegates of a nation's vengeance, or the hucksters of its mercy. Sad lot! fraught
with anguish, with terror, and trembling: every moment passed in fear of some new fetter--of
some fresh official caprice, or sudden separation! Such scenes of mental and physical martyrdom
have been often known to professional men, who enter the interior of life, and watch the operations
of secret sorrow. The mould of Tasmania covers many a true-hearted woman, whose constancy and
self devotion are registered on high; and which, in another sphere, might command the admiration
of the world!

The colonial government interdicted the connection of prisoners with the press, which, however,
was not prevented or punished, when loyal to the authorities. Their writings were commonly
laudatory of the officials, even when most offensive to the colonists. They were not always
the most trucculent and unprincipled; although the censorship of public morals and political
measures was unsuited to their civil condition.

Among those thus employed was Savary, once an opulent sugar baker at Bristol, who in 1824 was
convicted of forgery, and his life spared by an exercise of mercy then novel. Happier far,
had he died! He wrote for the press--on the right side. On the accusation of a colonist, his
ticket-of-leave was withdrawn; but he was spared the usual penalty of banishment by the kindness
of his patrons, who granted him another form of liberty. This man was followed by his wife;
but on her arrival, her affection was seduced, or exhausted, and she returned to England. Savary
attempted suicide, recovered, and again fell into crime: he was tried by Judge Montague, convicted
of a colonial forgery, and afterwards died at Port Arthur--an awful instance of the effects
of transgression; and of the proneness of men to repeat a crime they have once committed.[203]

It having been resolved to abandon Macquarie Harbour (1832), the government fixed on Port Arthur,
on the east coast, as the site of a settlement where the rigour of discipline might be preserved.
This district is situated on a peninsula within a peninsula, and contains about 100,000 acres
of woodland--barren, but not repulsive. A neck of 450 yards broad, divides Tasman's and Forrestier's
Peninsulas: there lamps are set on posts, to which fierce dogs are chained; and to close the
passage by the shore, when opened by the recession of the tide, others are kennelled on a floating
platform. Sentinels, guard-boats, and telegraphs, are the precautions employed to prevent escape;
which few have attempted, and fewer still accomplished.

The first commandant was Surgeon John Russell; an office subsequently confided to Captain O'Hara
Booth, a gentleman whose administration has been the subject of great eulogy. A minute code
of government regulations defined the duties of all on the station. Hither all convicted of
colonial crimes, or of more serious misconduct as assigned servants or in the road gangs, or
who were separated to more than ordinary punishment by the secretary of state, or of the educated
class, were sent. The degrees of punishment were, however, varied; and the more severe was
exhausting and dangerous. The carrying gang, with a massive balk on the shoulders, resembled
a huge centipede. The laborers, sometimes thirty together, groaning beneath a weight of many
tons, obtained no respite from toil. The slippery and inclining ground exposed them to terrific
perils: when they complained of inability to bear their burden, they were flogged, taken back,
and compelled, by supernatural effort, to raise the load they had laid down. The numerous orders
were enforced without momentary relaxation, and the scourge was the chief agent of control.

When the settlement was new, the men suffered from scurvy; they were not, subsequently, unhealthy:
diseases of the heart formed a large proportion of their maladies. Many instances of great
hardship have been authenticated; and several committed murder to be removed from misery by
a public execution. The possession of a piece of tobacco was penal, and for this offence alone
multitudes were flogged; but its use was only limited by the supply: many men would have risked
the rack, rather than rejected this valued indulgence. A wesleyan missionary was accustomed
to reward his servant with the luxury, until he found that being distributed, others were involved
in punishment. Visitors usually carried tobacco, which they dropped on the tramway by which
they were conveyed; and even when the prohibitions were most severely enforced, money would
procure a supply.

The effect of Capt. Booth's administration was soon visible: the stoutest hearted gave way.
Inexorably just, according to the system he represented, the accused might plead, but were
never pardoned. The gentlemen convicts, clad in a prison dress, were employed in lighter labor
and worked together; but were transferred to more penal gangs, for the least disorder. It is
said that the terrors of Port Arthur were preventive of crime; that its rigour controlled and
reformed, for the time, such as were sent there; but, both by those who vindicated, and those
who condemned its severity, it is admitted that relapses were usual;[204] that it operated
on the will by mechanical force, but debased the soul.

However heavy the hand of authority, it was not capricious. The overseers and constables were
less brutal than at the road parties and previous penal stations. Compared with every other
settlement of its class, Port Arthur, during Booth's management, was more humane because more
equal and impartial. Constantly exhibited as a place of profound misery, it carried the vengeance
of the law to the utmost limits of human endurance.

It would be improper to withhold the common testimony in favor of this officer, of whom the
writer never heard a prisoner speak with reproach: he was detested only as the personification
of unimpassioned severity. He gave all the weight of his example to promote the success of
the missionary, and paid him respect in the sight of the prisoners. Time softens all things,
and Captain Booth, on calm reflection, deserves to be remembered with respect, as an officer
who took no pleasure in the sufferings he inflicted--who was as prompt to reward as to punish.
A further detail is needless, and would add no new illustration of transportation.

The interest which Arthur took in the settlement which bears his name, may be inferred from
his frequent visits, and the large promises which he offered in reference to its future prosperity.
He thought seven thousand men might be sent there, to be detained six months on an average;
and that the large consumption and expenditure would be repaid by the produce of their labor.
From an early date, Port Arthur possessed the advantage of schools and ministerial attendance.
A church, of handsome exterior, was erected.[205]

As the settlement improved, a tramway formed of hard wood, crossed a space of five miles, and
thus connected the opposite bays. On this road, travellers were conveyed by human labor, a
large proportion of the distance being, however, overcome by spontaneous locomotion.

The denizens of Port Arthur would furnish a curious collection of biography: the muster would
be a living calendar. Among the more celebrated were, Ikey Solomon, the receiver, whom they
made constable: the chartists--men, in whose fate millions have publicly expressed an interest.
There was Collins, the mad sailor, who threw a stone at the last king; May, who murdered the
Italian boy; and Cohen, a jew, who resigned himself to despair, and refusing sustenance, died:
they now rest in the "Isle de Mort."

The establishment at Point Puer was intended to reclaim and control, rather than to punish,
the unfortunate youth submitted to its discipline. Until a very late period, boys had been
transmitted to the colonies in company with the men, and were treated without much discrimination:
some at an age to understand crime only as a trick, or to deserve aught except pity and correction.
Thus at Preston, a child, only seven years old, was transported for life. A boy, three years
older, perhaps the same, called by his fellow prisoners, "King John," after three years imprisonment,
arrived in this colony (1829) with sixty other lads; of whom, on their embarkation, not one
in twenty could repeat the Lord's prayer.[206] It was stated by a Lord Mayor of London, that
nothing could be kinder than to transport juvenile offenders to a country where their labor
would be useful and their prosperity sure. It may be presumed, that in this spirit a girl and
two boys were committed to take their trial for stealing some wood, valued at twopence, the
property of the crown.[207] These acts of severity forcibly contrast with the happier fortunes
of other classes. It is said of George III, that he arrested two Eton boys in the act of poaching:
they took him for a keeper, and offered their pocket-money as a bribe. He threatened to inform
their master; but next day sent them a present, requesting them to cease their depredations.
They were peers when the monarch told the story, and he observed that they were most rigorous
preservers of their game--"according to the old proverb, set a thief to catch a thief," said
the king! A better authenticated anecdote was given by Lord Eldon, of his juvenile adventures;
such as a rigorous magistrate might have turned to a very different account.[208] By what construction
of equity the poor man's son, or the orphan, could deserve to be branded with an indelible
stigma for no heavier crimes, it would be in vain to ask. Infractions of the law cannot be
tolerated in any age, yet its administration has been often both partial and unmerciful.

Most of these young convicts had been first imprisoned a short period, and then turned on the
world to obtain, by greater crimes, more lasting protection; or sometimes accused, but not
convicted, they waited amidst moral pestilence the long delays of justice. A lad, fourteen
years of age, was charged with stealing a hat: twelve months after, he was acquitted. What
wonder that, dismissed a hardened criminal, he returned to be transported for life.[209] Such
was the education of many, who might fairly adopt the language of Howard to the German emperor--"It
is not in the power of your majesty to make reparation for the injury they have suffered."
No subsequent care could atone for the long slumber of protective justice.

It is refreshing to find that kindness and coercion were united in the discipline of Point
Puer: an oasis in the desert of penal government--unless viewed from the woolsack. Captain
Booth was prompt in subduing rebellion and enforcing industry: the meals were regular, and
habits of devotion and cleanliness were promoted. But when the boys were submissive and diligent,
they were not forbidden to be happy: they were made tailors, shoemakers, carpenters, boat-builders,
masons, and gardeners. Some became acceptable apprentices, were lost sight of as prisoners,
and are now known only as respectable men. Such boys, however, were protected from contamination,
from the moment of conviction. Those who mingled indiscriminately with the prisoners, surpassed
them in mischief and wickedness. When landed they were placed in the barracks: some, not more
than ten years old, blended the trickery of boyhood with the villainy of age, and had scarcely
arrived a week, before they were tied up to the triangles and punished with the cat. Lord John
Russell, yielding to humane suggestions, collected a cargo of juveniles from the various prisons,
and appointed a surgeon-superintendent, who never lost sight of their moral welfare. The care
was not unavailing: Captain Booth reported that a large proportion passed through his hands
without incurring even magisterial correction, notwithstanding the most trivial disorders were
punished. The reformation of adults may admit of scepticism, and be tolerated as a topic of
ridicule: but children, taught to steal earlier than to speak; who received the first lessons
of crime on the lap of a mother; who never heard of God, but from the lips of blasphemers--or
of right, but as the fair distribution of spoil, were surely entitled to compassion. The sympathies
of man cast penal science to the winds, and scorn to preserve the inexorable temper of legal
vengeance, to save the rich from peculation, by the moral immolation of infant robbers. They
are orphans cast upon a nation's mercy; for though nature gave them the claims of children,
she did not secure them an interest in a parent's heart.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 201: Collins.]

[Footnote 202: Mudie's Felonry of New South Wales, p. 27.]

[Footnote 203: Savary wrote a novel, called Quintus Servington, 3 vols. It professes to detail
his life: it sets out with a gypsy prophecy, delivered at his birth, which gave warning to
his father that his son would be in danger between his thirtieth and fortieth year; but, passing
that period, safely reach a happy old age!]

[Footnote 204: Arthur's evidence: Murdoch's ditto.]

[Footnote 205: While its foundation was digging, a murder was committed in the trench, and
when its roof was covered, the plumber moulded dollars from lead, the property of government.]

[Footnote 206: This child, when asked his age by the superintendent, answered, "I was so young
when I was born, that I cannot tell."]

[Footnote 207: Spectator, Sept. 21, 1833.]

[Footnote 208: "I do not know how it was, but we always considered robbing an orchard an honorable
exploit. I remember once being carried before a magistrate: there were three of us. The magistrate
acted upon what, I think, was rather curious law: he fined our fathers each 30s. for our offence.
We were very good boys, indeed. I believe, we never did anything worse than a robbery."--Lord
Eldon; Life, by Horace Twiss.]

[Footnote 209: Prison Discipline Society's Report, 1827.]

SECTION XVII.

The views of the ministers respecting the severity of punishment, rendered the discipline more
stern.[210] The subordinate agents of government received instructions to enforce an amount
of labor from the prisoners employed upon the roads, which was measured without much regard
to their previous habits, dexterity, or strength.

Nottman, to whose management several gangs were committed, was a person of unflinching temper--rigorous
and fearless. Once, when assailed upon the road, he clenched the robber by the throat, until
he expired. He found a pleasure in hastening the operations entrusted to his oversight, and
neglect of work was an offence which was never pardoned. It did not unfrequently happen, that
a tailor, or other sedentary craftsman, was sentenced to the roads; but in breaking stones,
there is an art, and while the dexterous could make every blow effective, the utmost toil of
the novice left a deficiency in the task. To admit excuse, would have disturbed the calculations
of labor, and the defaulter was delivered at once to the flogger; often, too, the implements,
injured by use, rendered the fracture of stones more difficult: the issue of rations weekly,
tempted the improvident to consume their food, so that the last days of the week were spent
in exhaustion and hunger.[211] The slightest symptoms of insubordination were promptly visited;
and in one party, 3,300 lashes were administered in one morning.

The overseers copied the rigour of their superiors, without their discrimination or sense of
justice. It was not uncommon, though forbidden, for these men to strike down the prisoners
who displeased them. Such violations of rule were punished when discovered: but men of weak
minds bore in silence miseries they were afraid to resent. The government compelled to accept
such agents as transportation yielded, employed persons of the vilest character, of which the
following may be taken as a specimen: W. A----, a prisoner for life, forfeited his ticket-of-leave
for keeping a house of ill-fame, and harbouring assigned servants. He applied for its restoration:
this was opposed by the police magistrate, who recommended that he should serve as an overseer
for three months on probation, as he had been notorious for keeping a bad house![212] The incongruity
of this employment with his character must have suggested itself to all except those familiar
with similar appointments. Such as could command a bribe ameliorated their condition, while
those who possessed no such resources, were selected to illustrate the vigilance and fidelity
of the overseers. It requires no extensive acquaintance with mankind to perceive, that in such
hands public justice was desecrated, and the weight of a sentence determined by causes which
had no relation to the character or the crime.

The orders of Stanley were constantly criticised by the press, and from various motives were
disliked by every section of the public. All who had been prisoners, naturally sympathised
with the sufferers: those who were employers, reprobated a form of punishment which, without
diminishing the application of the lash, abstracted from their farms a proportion of labour.
A spirit of resistance was extensively propagated, and during the year following many sad instances
occurred, in which an insurgent spirit was fatal. A young man, when employed on the public
works, struck at Mr. Franks with his hammer: fortunately, the blow fell lightly; but he was
tried and executed. A considerable number threw down their tools and retired to the bush, whither
they were pursued and retaken. One instance made a powerful impression on the public mind:
a convict, named Greenwood, took from a fellow prisoner his shovel, which was better than his
own. He was sent at once by the superintendent to the cells in charge of a fellow workman.
In the spirit of reckless daring, he told his conductor that he could run away if he thought
proper; the other replied--"no doubt of it." Thus, by a sudden impulse, in bravado or in terror
of the lash, he sprang across the boundary, and threw up his hat as a signal of his flight.
He appeared on the race ground, and was there discovered by the constables committing some
act of petty robbery: he was pursued, drew a knife from his pocket, and wounded his captor.
Being taken before a magistrate, both his absconding and his resistance were stated--the last
a capital offence. To punish this man was, of course, the duty of those whose authority he
had defied. As an absconder, he was sentenced to one hundred lashes, and told--in words the
import of which has not been disputed, although the taunting tone attributed to the justice
may possibly admit a question--that after his flogging he would be hanged! Ten days after,
he was condemned to death: his execution was delayed a few more by a respite; but he went to
the scaffold with his wounds unhealed! The treatment of this man called forth, and justified
the strongest expressions of public indignation. True, it was within the letter of the law:
either of the penalties inflicted, might have been vindicated or excused both by necessity
and custom; but to torture a fellow creature shortly to make his defence against a charge affecting
his life, and to send him to his last account whilst suffering the pangs of laceration, was
inexpressibly revolting. Those who desired to disgrace the government, embraced the opportunity--perhaps
with the eagerness of faction: pictures were exhibited of the unfortunate man, illustrative
of his melancholy fate. Surely no argument can be found, in the calmest exercise of the understanding
to extenuate an administration of the law, which distorted justice into cruelty.

Under circumstances far more consonant with reason, but scarcely less affecting when considered
at large, was the execution of Samuel, a black man: he was transported for theft, from the
Cape of Good Hope, and was remarkable for the quiet easiness of his disposition. For some violation
of penal discipline he was ordered to be flogged: when approaching the triangle, he attacked
one of the officers in attendance, who was slightly wounded; for this he forfeited his life--justly,
had England been just; but what was his story? With his mother and sister he was stolen from
Mozambique, and thus became a slave: he robbed his masters, and thus became a criminal. His
fate turns justice into mockery, and might make the Briton blush for his country. His execution,
however, was not without utility: Dr. Ross, who for years had attended such scenes, then adopted
the conviction that no resources of language, or varieties of incident, could invest them with
interest, and he resolved to attend them no more. Here, too, the reader will be willing to
abandon them. Since, they have often been repeated; but happily society has adopted from reflection,
what that gentle-hearted man, so powerful is habit, required years to learn--that the executioner
is an officer far less useful, and the agent of a spirit far less just, than past ages have
deemed.[213]

At parting, it is proper to pay the tribute of history to the memory of Dogherty, the hangman--a
functionary who surpassed greatly the common character of his order; and who, while he lived,
contrived to evade the detestation of his calling. There was no amateur gaiety in his manner--no
harshness in his speech. He accepted office when a prisoner, to enjoy the quiet quarters of
the gaol and liberation from ordinary toil: he intended to resign it with his bondage, but
the number of candidates for his place, it is said, reconciled his mind to its retention. Not
in the spirit of menace, but defensive retort, he would promise those by whom he was jeered,
his most delicate attentions in their last emergency. He was always willing to part with his
provisions: to divide his sugar and tea with the necessitous, and to perform errands of kindness
in their favor. No one could wield the lash with more mercy; and it is said that once, an offender,
sentenced to a public flogging, received one stroke at starting, and the cart being driven
by an associate, a second at stopping. His predecessor was a different character; and overcome
with the misery of his condition, he committed murder, that he might escape from life! Dogherty
passed through the town without fear of vengeance; although once, certain soldiers, his countrymen,
injured him, and left scars which he carried to the grave. But what character is perfect? He
was addicted to intemperance, and commonly spent the day succeeding an execution in drunkenness.
The incredulous are assured, that this is not the language of fiction, but the character commonly
ascribed in sober earnest to this unfortunate being.

The day will come, when the sacrifice of life, made with more hesitation, will cease to be
a public spectacle; when, if it is deemed requisite to cut off from the earth the shedder of
blood, the dreadful doom will cease to amuse the brutal, or to offer a momentary excitement
to the unreflecting. Women will be no longer seen raising their children above the crowd, to
enjoy the most humiliating sight that can meet the eyes of mortals. Let no one imagine, that
men are effectually intimidated by attending public executions: as the fatal moment draws nigh,
crowds are indeed seen rushing towards the spot; but they wear the lineaments of insensibility,
intemperance, or habitual crime. It is not the guilt of the sufferer which extinguishes their
pity: they would run to witness the murder of a saint. The utility of executions is left to
the judgment of statesmen, but it cannot be wrong to detest them.

Thus far having delineated the broad features of the system known as the "certain and severe,"
it will be proper to explain the changes which it ultimately produced in the practical working
of transportation. Simultaneously, a new theory of colonisation was promulgated. Land ceased
to be granted: the funds accumulated by its sale were available for emigration,--and thus to
decrease the rate of wages, and to enable the government to dispense with the services of convicts
as writers, overseers, and mechanics. To assist this project, it had been determined to levy
a tax on prison labor; but the protest of the colonists and the remonstrance of Arthur, led
to its abandonment. The despatch which explained his views, dwelt on the inconvenience, vexation,
and loss, to which the settlers were subject. He informed the Secretary of State, that his
lordship could not understand, except by experience, how much and how often the colonists were
fretted by the misconduct of their servants, and despoiled by their peculation: however perfect
the discipline established; although the roads were safe, and violence infrequent; though many
prisoners were reformed and useful, still the existing social state was charged with every
form of domestic annoyance and mortification. Trivial thefts were constantly passed over, because
punishment was attended with greater loss. Thus, two hundred men arrive--they are distributed:
their masters pay down money for their clothing; but before they reach their home, their clothes
are destroyed or sold--or, perhaps, they are committed for felony to gaol. At first the settler
repines, but his difficulties are inevitable: he is silent, because his trials have long lost
the interest of novelty, and all around him are fellow-sufferers. The settlers who submitted
to the impertinence and unwillingness of pickpockets, he thought certainly entitled to the
benefit of their services without any other tax than might be levied by their fingers. This
earnest protest was not without success; but it became, afterwards, a potent weapon in the
hands of those who pronounced transportation a failure.[214]

The arrival of many hundreds, whose previous habits were far from respectable, increased the
difficulties of penal government. The former marked division of classes was confounded: the
emigrant laborer was the companion of the prisoner of the crown; but, in law, the equal of
the prisoner's master. This addition was greatly deplored, both by the Governor and the press.
It was perceived that great organic changes must follow the influx of free men, whose interest
would run in a direction entirely opposite to penal institutions. Thus, almost instantly, a
change became perceptible: the high value of prison labor was reduced, and employers hostile
to the government could afford to defy its power. The emigrant laborers formed an intermediate
class, which detested the espionage and insolence of a convict constabulary, and was disposed
to resent the haughty spirit which slavery has ever generated in the ruling classes.

In 1835, the feeling in opposition to transportation was strongly expressed by certain portions
of the people. A meeting was called, under the auspices of Messrs. Kemp, Gellibrand, Hackett,
Thomas Horne, and others, which complained that the hope entertained, that the colony might
ultimately be freed from its penal character, had been disappointed, and that the colonists
"were made materials for the punishment of British offenders;" were considered only as the
"occupants of a large prison;"--phrases of Arthur--and that "this penal character had recently
increased; thus violating the feelings of the adult, and barbarising the habits and demoralising
the principles of the rising generation." This meeting, at which the sheriff presided, called
by public advertisement, was perhaps de jure a meeting of the colony; but the sheriff refused
to attach his signature, lest the petition should be taken as that of the settlers in general,
whose opinions it certainly did not then represent.

Arthur, in his despatch, endeavoured to neutralise its possible influence, at the same time
intimating that he had "long foreseen that abolition would become a popular question." He,
however, maintained that the emigrant, knowing the object of the settlement, had no right to
complain; and that for the quarter of a century succeeding it would become increasingly adapted
for the enforcement of penal discipline. He advised the ministers to stop the current of emigration,
which, if continued, would render "convicts less valuable to the settlers," or to confine it
to female emigrants, or such artificers as carpenters and masons.[215] Two hundred and sixty
persons, in the Launceston district, repudiated the following passage of the petition:--"Your
Majesty's humble petitioners most respectfully pray your Majesty to be pleased in your paternal
goodness to remove from the colony of Van Diemen's Land the degradation and unspeakable evils
to which it is subject on account of its penal character."

It would be amusing to contrast the sentiments expressed by various persons during the first
formal agitation of this subject, with those that have latterly prevailed. It must, however,
be remembered, that there were two political parties. Some opposed transportation as the last
indignity which could be offered to Arthur, its zealous patron; while others desired its continuance
only because no other labor was at hand. The paupers sent from the parishes did not create
a strong feeling of preference for free servants, many of whom were profligate, intemperate,
and otherwise worthless. Nor is it honest to conceal the disastrous influence of power on the
moral perceptions of the mind. It is justly observed by Franklin, the philosopher, that "it
is one of the worst features of human nature, yet one with which it is too generally impressed--the
love of power; whereby all men prefer to be served by slaves, over whom they have absolute
dominion, than by free men, who have rights as well as their masters." These motives, mingled
and corroborated by the practice of many years, contributed to strengthen the views of the
local government, and to reduce to a small minority the advocates of abolition. Yet such are
the singular conjunctions of affairs: though derided and rejected on the spot, they were afterwards
quoted with respect by a committee of British legislators, when the subject of transportation
again engaged the attention of parliament.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 210:

"Colonial Secretary's Office, 14th February, 1833.

"His Majesty's government having been pleased to enjoin the strictest fulfilment of the law
upon all convicts sent to this colony, and that their punishment should be certain and severe,
the Lieutenant-Governor directs the renewed attention of all public officers connected with
the convict department, to the instructions which have from time to time been issued on the
subject.

"His Excellency is desirous especially to impress upon them the necessity of invariably exacting
the due portion of daily labor from each convict, and of not permitting any remission or indulgence
but such as have been previously and especially authorised.

"The orders prohibiting convicts employed on the roads and in the public works (including clerks,
messengers, and persons of that description) from laboring, under any pretence, for private
individuals, or to the advantage of those in charge of them, are at all times to be most perseveringly
and carefully enforced, and to avoid any misconception in a matter deemed so important by his
Majesty's government, the instructions are to be understood most peremptorily to forbid every
species of indulgence beyond the food, clothing, bedding, and lodging authorised by regulations
to every convict.

"A proportionate degree of restraint and watchfulness over all assigned convicts is equally
essential. The object of their reform, as well as punishment, must never be lost sight of.

"His Excellency is sensible that this end could never have been so successfully attained as
it has been, without the zealous co-operation of the colonists at large, who in conjunction
with a due exaction of labor, have very generally insisted upon the observance of orderly and
regular conduct.

"As it is through this good feeling on the part of the colonists generally, that the police
has proved so efficient an auxiliary in the general control of the convict population, and
as it would be unjust to allow the exceptions which may yet exist to affect the reputation
of the colony at large, the government will still more firmly pursue the course of withdrawing
assigned servants from all masters who neglect to regard cleanly, decent, and sober habits
in and out of their huts, and a seasonable attention to moral and religious duties, as part
of the compact under which the labor is placed at their disposal.

"The Lieutenant-Governor on this occasion feels it due to the general body of the settlers,
to acknowledge his obligation to them for the cordial support he has received at their hands
in the control and management of the convict population, with which no political differences
have been permitted to interfere, and his Excellency does so with the more satisfaction, at
this particular time, when the attention of the Imperial Parliament is so especially drawn
to the consideration of the important subject of prison discipline, and when the state of things
in the colony has placed the local government in a situation to contradict the unjust imputations
which have been raised against transportation as a punishment.

"By his Excellency's command,

"J. BURNETT."]

[Footnote 211: Backhouse and Walker's observations. This evil was corrected on their representation.]

[Footnote 212: Par. Papers.]

[Footnote 213: "The Rev. Dr. Bedford, in the course of his remarks, stated that his duty had
imposed upon him the painful task of attending between three and four hundred executions, and
that more than nineteen-twentieths of the unhappy men who had thus miserably perished, had
been brought to this end by the effects of drunkenness."--Courier; Speech at a meeting of the
first Temperance Society at Hobart Town, 1832.

"It has fallen to our lot to be present at the executions of a large proportion of the malefactors
who have suffered the extremity of the law in Hobart Town, and the apparent apathy with which
the unhappy men met their fate, was always to us the most humiliating part of the spectacle.
Their lips would utter with apparent sincerity the invocations prompted by the clergyman, but
the heart, that should have given them expression, was too plainly wanting. They were empty
sounds--the soul was gone. The main part of the executioner's duty was performed to his hand;
the kernel was already consumed.... They sung psalms, ate a hearty meal: they heard the summons
of the sheriff; their arms were pinioned; the halter was put about their neck; the cap was
brought over their eyes, and they dropped into eternity with more indifference than the ox
goes to the slaughter."--V. D. Land Annual; edited by Dr. Ross, 1833.]

[Footnote 214: 28th June, 1832.]

[Footnote 215: Despatch to Spring Rice.]

SECTION XVIII.

Governor Arthur held the reins of authority while considerable changes transpired in the elder
colony. Sir Thomas Brisbane, who succeeded Macquarie, had chiefly attempted to diminish the
expenditure, and in the management of convicts had sought in the results of their labor, rather
than its detail, the success of transportation. Formed into gangs, they were employed in clearing
farms under the inspection of government superintendents, for which the settlers paid a moderate
price; but on the arrival of General Darling, the government assumed an aspect of increasing
rigour, and the reins of authority were tightened until they were in danger of breaking. It
does not belong to this work to examine minutely the general policy of that ruler; it was,
however, held in earnest detestation by those who were, or had been prisoners. The magistrates
were empowered to inflict corporal punishment to a very questionable extent, and it was customary
for one settler to judge and sentence the servant of another, who in his turn performed a similar
office. It is surely not necessary to prove, that the moderate exercise of such extensive powers
depended rather on the equitable temper of British gentlemen than the practical limitation
of their power.

On the arrival of Sir Richard Bourke, the successor of Darling, the spirit of convict discipline
underwent a change. By a new law he lessened the power of the magistrates to inflict corporal
punishment, and particularly terminated the system of distributing through successive days
the sentence awarded. The magistrates complained that the convict servants treated the penalties
to which they were liable with derision, and petitions from various districts of the colony
claimed the restoration of the abolished laws. This led to the issue of an order to the various
district magistrates, requesting their personal attendance at the triangles, and a special
report upon the extent of suffering which resulted from the application of the lash. Superintendent
Ernest Augustus Slade, son of General Slade, prepared a scourge, which was called the "regulation
cat." Every flagellator through the colony was supplied with this instrument, and the effects
it produced are described with scientific minuteness. The last victim was much more fortunate
than the first: the lash loosened, or softened, and became more merciful at every stroke.

The description of several hundred cases in the course of one month, prove how useless, how
unequal, and unavailing this form of torture. Such as these: "a fair skinned young man, he
bore his punishment well;" "he resolved to bear his punishment like a man;" "he begged for
some water;" "he seemed much exhausted, and cried like a child;" "this man never moved or spoke;"
"he seemed to suffer much mental pain;" "he bit his lip, he had had former punishments;" "he
neither cried nor spoke;" "he cried out domino." Of fifty, one half had never been flogged
before. Then there follows in each case a description of the writhings of the sufferers: the
discoloration of the skin, the time at which the blood appeared, and whatever might illustrate
the power of the lash to degrade and torture. These returns were obtained to vindicate Governor
Bourke from the charge of unseasonable lenity, and to prove that no just discontent was authorised
by the mitigations he had enforced.

A great portion of these punishments were inflicted by the order of Mr. Slade. Dismissed for
immoralities he was authorised to avenge, he excused them by alleging his youth. Though capricious,
he was not cruel; but it is due to mankind, to protest against depositing power in the hands
of young persons, who have to cover their own passions by the plea of juvenility, and who,
in every part of the penal colonies, have exhibited an example of those habits which lead to
crime--and too often administered public vengeance in the spirit of tyranny.

Corporal punishment, long tenaciously vindicated, by those who ruled masses of men, was held
indispensible, and no severe reproach can be due to the government which authorised, or the
magistrates who ordered, its infliction. It seems, indeed, to be essential to every social
system that denies the ordinary rewards of labor. The rebel slave, to deprive his master, will
dare any suffering which suspends or terminates his service. But beside those who employed
the lash from conviction, there were others of a different stamp: it is quietly observed by
Messrs. Backhouse and Walker, that they found its greatest advocates "among persons given to
profane swearing." The violent temper, prone to break out in imprecations, would find another
and congenial relief in scenes of torture and debasement. There were modes of punishment which
no prejudice could extenuate: among these, the infliction of the lash in a form which degraded
society more than it debased the sufferer. Thus, at Hobart Town, men, for mere faults, have
been sentenced to exposure and the scourge, in the view of hundreds: the flagellator extinguished
the last feeling of the man, and roused the temper of the demon. An old compositor, within
a month of his freedom, was charged with some trifling breach of convict discipline, and though
the father of grown up children, was ordered by a chief police magistrate, this cruel disgrace.
He is dead--and his oppressor is dead! Such cases were not uncommon, but they are past, and
they may be left to oblivion.

Whether it is possible, in the present state of penal discipline, to withdraw the scourge from
the hands of authority, it might be difficult to decide: it should not, however, be forgotten,
that its present comparative disuse, was once pronounced impossible; and that when flogging
decreased, crimes of savage violence became unusual.

The partisans of General Darling, many of whom were eminent, both for their opulence and social
worth, resented the constructive censure of his policy. They asserted that discipline was relaxed;
that, under the title of the "prisoners' friend," Bourke was an incendiary, stirring up the
laborers to rebellion.[216] They predicted that the diminished severity of transportation as
a penalty, would suggest new arguments against it in parliament, ultimately lead to its abolition,
and thus inflict a fatal injury on the colony. The press, supported by emancipists, lauded
the lenient temper of the governor, and exasperated the advocates of the past system by allusions
to their tyrannical rule, and exultation at their defeat. The old quarrel revived: the dissatisfied
magistrates and settlers dwelt on the characteristic depravity of the emancipists; and the
necessity for their permanent disqualification as jurors and electors. While they asserted
the lasting civil and moral distinctions between the voluntary and expiree settlers, the patrons
of the latter avenged them by maintaining that the convict was only less fortunate than his
free employer, and that the moral disparity assumed and vaunted, was rather fanciful than real.

The treatment of assigned servants in New South Wales had always been more open to objection
than Van Diemen's Land.[217] The transportation of 30,000, during ten years ending in 1836,
produced the moral evils inseparable from such vast accumulations. Several of the settlers
employed from one to two hundred men, and it was a capital object to reduce them to the feeling,
while they were subject to the economy of penal slavery. There were, indeed, many mitigations
and many exceptions; but the settlers at large realised less the healthy sympathy between the
master and servant than was common in this country.

A class of settlers, whose management was not less exceptionable, chiefly expirees, surrounded
the large estates; thus, while some convicts were considered both as criminals and slaves,
others sat at the table and enjoyed the company of their masters. The results of these extremes
have been already described, and are always uniform.

Among those who resented the policy of Bourke, Major Mudie was the most bitter and persevering.
In his "Felonry of New South Wales," he employed every epithet of horror and contempt in condemning
the conduct of this governor. The character of Mudie, as delineated by his friends, is not
repulsive: they have described him as a good master and a just magistrate; but the style of
his work awakens a suspicion that his temper was not fitted for the control of his fallen countrymen.
They were sent to New South Wales to be punished: such was his theory. Macarthur, who participated
in many of his sentiments, yet describes his own plan as the reverse. He knew that a severe
gaoler could not be esteemed as a good master: "he endeavoured to make his farm servants forget
that they were convicts."[218] Mudie spoke of those he employed in the tone of an executioner--nothing
could wash away their guilt, or obliterate its brand. His descriptions of the "felonry"--a
cutting term devised by himself, are grotesque and amusing. He deserves the fame of a satirist,
but on historical questions his vehement language impairs the force of his testimony, and lessens
the weight of his opinions.

This gentleman was the proprietor of Castle Forbes, an estate of large extent, where many convicts
were employed. Their immediate superintendence he intrusted to his nephew, of whom their complaints
were bitter and mutinous. Their remonstrances were punished: one man set out for Sydney, and
carried a petition to Governor Bourke; he was sent back with a note to his master, written
by the private secretary, who interceded in his behalf; but his application was irregular,
and his absence unauthorised, and Mudie delivered him to the magistrate, by whom he was flogged
and condemned to chains. On this, several men rose in rebellion: they attacked the house of
their master, robbed him of some race horses, and attempted the life of the overseer. At their
trial, and just before their death, they implored the governor to stop the cruelties which
had driven them to desperation and the scaffold.

Deferring to the strong feeling excited by their appeal, Bourke appointed an enquiry. The evidence
collected did not sustain the charges of the men, who probably mistook their position, and
exaggerated their grievances; but their accusations made a deep impression on a certain class,
and the tyranny of the settler magistrates, of whom thirty were dismissed from the commission,
was denounced with increasing boldness and asperity.

Among the most effective writers of the time, was William Angus Watt, who held up the angry
magistrates to derision, and their partisans, "as a faction dwindled to a shadow--

    A mumping phantom of incarnate spite;
    Loathed, but not feared, for rage that cannot bite."[219]

The career of this man is a curiosity of Australasian literature. Both Dr. Lang and Major Mudie
have spread his fame by their works and their parliamentary evidence. He committed a crime
in Scotland, for which he was outlawed; for a second, in London, he was transported. At Wellington
Valley he won the favor of his superintendent employed in an office at Sydney, he conciliated
the good-will of Bishop Broughton and several other clergymen, who interceded for his pardon.
This was refused, but he obtained a ticket-of-leave, and engaged in the service of the editor
of the Gazette, the reputed organ of the government. The profligacy of his habits, and the
insolence of his writings, exposed him to observation. He lived with a female illegally at
large, whose child, born in the factory, was baptised in his name. To involve the editors of
the Herald in a prosecution for libel, Watt procured, by the agency of a printer in their office,
a slip proof of a letter they had resolved to suppress. This he transmitted through the post
to the person calumniated, to give him the necessary evidence of publication. For his share
in this scandalous trick he was tried, but the paper stolen was of so little value that he
was acquitted. In addressing the jury, he pointed out Major Mudie as his unrelenting persecutor,
and as an oppressor of unfortunate prisoners. Mudie, to punish the alleged insolence of his
defence, accused him of immorality and habitual lying, and demanded the revocation of his ticket-of-leave.
The investigation lasted several weeks, and ended in the dismissal of the charge, which was
not unfairly attributed to the animosities kindled by newspaper warfare, in which Mudie was
more than a spectator. Judge Burton represented that the residence of Watt in Sydney was pernicious,
and Governor Bourke ordered him to the district of Port Macquarie; whither he was followed
by the proprietress of the Gazette, with whom he married, by the governor's permission. There
he was again concerned in an official dispute: his ticket was withdrawn; he absconded, was
retaken and flogged--and thus dropped down to the degraded condition which his enemies desired,
and which was certainly not undeserved.

The attempt to identify Bourke with this man was an artifice of faction. The license he received
was not unusual, and his previous character had been free from colonial offence. His influence
resulted from his ability: his principles were the current notions of the emancipists; nor
is it easy to discern how talents, such as he was supposed to possess, could be prevented from
finding their level.

About this time Dr. Lang established the Observer. Its object was to write down the emancipist
partisans, and the journals subject to their power. The good service performed by this earnest
censor was not without alloy: and in his attacks on their moral reputation, he seemed sometimes
to write what they themselves might have written. The emancipists were drawn together by common
sympathies: they charged the free settlers with attempting to exact from the sufferings and
failings of their brethren, a consideration in the colony, to which they were entitled neither
by their rank nor their reputation. Nor was this reflection always without reason: in strange
forgetfulness of the natural operation of self-love, the upper classes of New South Wales expected
multitudes, often of greater wealth than themselves, to walk humbly in their presence. Such
claims the emancipists met with defiance. The false morality of their journals will be largely
ascribed by a calm enquirer to retaliation and hatred, rather than to a judgment corrupted--in
reference to the real nature of crime.[220]

Nothing so powerfully contributed to rouse the attention of the empire, as the charge of Judge
Burton, delivered to the petty jurors, at the close of the criminal court, 1835. Perhaps a
more awful picture was never drawn, or a more serious impeachment pronounced against a people.
This celebrated speech furnished the text of examination, when parliament once more enquired
on the subject. Judge Burton asserted that the whole community seemed engaged in the commission
or the punishment of crimes. Crimes, including 442 capital convictions in three years: crimes
of violence, murders, manslaughters in drunken revels--deliberate perjuries, from motives of
revenge or reward, were brought to light. He complained of the deficiency of religious principle:
of the neglect and profanation of the sabbath: on which day the worst actions were planned
and perpetrated. The convict stations he compared to "bee-hives, diligently pouring in and
out; but with this difference--the one worked by day, the other by night: the one goes forth
to industry, the other to plunder." These evils he traced to "squatting;" the congregation
of prisoner servants in Sydney; the license of improper persons to public houses; and, more
than all, the total neglect of superintendence by employers of convicts, who, armed for marauding
expeditions, sometimes left their masters' premises by night, and even by day. He closed, by
declaring his love to free institutions--the pride, indeed, and boast of England; but which,
if conferred on such a populace, he believed would end in the corruption of all.

That this address gave a true description of a part of the population, cannot be doubted; but
inferences were liable to error, even on the spot, much more when drawn at a distance. A mass
of thieves under any system, if in contact with property, must produce a mass of crime; yet
even in the worst days of transportation, the relapses were proportionately less than under
any other system of prison discipline. In England, 30,000 such persons at large, would yield
annually at least an equal number of felonies.

The abuses which were brought to light, were certainly flagrant: the most memorable was the
instance of Nash, who took to Sydney the rich spoil of a robbery, and set up a large drapery
warehouse; and of Gough, an assigned servant of the chief justice, who lived at large, and
carried on a quiet business as a receiver of stolen goods. Cases so conspicuous strongly illustrated
the evils of assignment. The miserable fate of Mudie's men, compared with the condition of
such persons, naturally suggested the idea, that some new change was essential, to protect
from reproach or derision the public justice of the nation.

The appointment of a committee to promote emigration from Ireland, of which Archbishop Whately
was chairman, called attention to the subject of transportation. It was the opinion of the
committee (1836), that to send the peasantry of Ireland to a community so polluted, was base,
cruel, and impolitic. The right reverend prelate asserted that statesmen were tolerating a
social organisation, destined one day to involve the empire in deep disgrace, and exhibit the
awful spectacle of a nation of criminals!

The desire to possess free institutions, brought the question of transportation to a crisis.
The patriotic association advocated an unrestricted concession of political rights; the anti-emancipists
a limitation of the franchise to such as were always free. This division of opinion was characterised
by the usual warmth of political faction, aggravated by personal anger. The petition of the
exclusionists called the attention of parliament to the state of the convict question, and
solicited enquiry.[221] Macarthur, whose work is a commentary on the petition, full of valuable
information, suggested the abolition of assignment, the separation of the convict department
and colonial government, and the establishment of large gangs, in which labor might be exacted,
without partiality.

Such was the state of this important question during the last years of Arthur's administration.
When he deemed the details of his penal system nearest perfection, the main principles on which
it rested were undermined. The severity enjoined by Lord Stanley, and the lenity exercised
by General Bourke, raised an outcry against transportation; and once more propagated the idea
that in its lenity it was corrupt, and its severity cruel. A running fire was kept up by the
press, which returned to the question of secondary punishments with new vigour, and repeated
all the problems on this perplexing subject--perhaps, destined to confound the wise, and furnish
a theme for dogmatism through all time.

In 1837, the House of Commons appointed the committee, of which Sir William Molesworth was
chairman.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 216: Mudie's Felonry.]

[Footnote 217: "I thought them a villanous shabby set, compared with convicts in Van Diemen's
Land." "There appeared a great deal of flogging." "My men did twice as much work." "I told
my brother, if he used his men as we did, he would get more work: he said it would be ill-received
through the country. They had very inferior clothing, and got very little meat. These remarks
were applicable to the estates in general."--Mr. P. Murdoch's Evidence--questions 1397 to 1403.]

[Footnote 218: Par. Pap.]

[Footnote 219: Sydney Gazette, April 1835.]

[Footnote 220: "It was the uniform tendency or design of the writings of these individuals,
as it has been also that of all other public writers of convict origin in the Australian colonies,
to reduce the reputable portion of the community to the same level as themselves; to abolish
all the salutary distinctions which the laws of God and man have erected between right and
wrong; and if possible to dispossess the whole convict population of all sense of criminality
and degradation."--Lang's Transportation and Colonisation, 1837. p. 109. And yet the disappearance
of emancipist disqualifications has almost banished a class of writers who were accepted as
champions, but who could not seriously affect the ultimate views of public and private morality--they
were mere actors.]

SECTION XIX.

While these questions were agitated in England, Sir John Franklin received the government of
Tasmania. Captain Maconochie, already known to scientific men, and who had enjoyed long the
friendship of the Governor, accepted the office of private secretary--a situation of not much
emolument, but highly confidential. When his destination became public, the society for the
improvement of prison discipline requested him to examine closely the results of transportation,
as exhibited in Van Diemen's Land. To assist his inquiries, they prepared sixty-seven questions,
comprehending the details of convict management, on which they desired a minute exposition
of his views; and added, "make such general remarks as occur on the whole convict system of
the colony, and its effects on the moral and social state of the community: also remark on
the effect of the latter, and enter on the subject largely, making any observation which may
be useful in regard thereto."

Captain Maconochie referred the application to Sir George Grey, who consented, conditionally:--that
all papers on the subject should pass through the usual channel to the colonial-office, and
be first placed at his absolute disposal. The effects of this commission were momentous. Maconochie,
when he left Great Britain, professed a freedom from decided bias, and to favor the general
system of Arthur, rather than that propounded by Archbishop Whately. The opinions he ultimately
adopted, he ascribed to his own observation, and disclaimed all prejudice against those forms
of prison discipline he was destined to subvert.

The discussions thus originated are of a deeply interesting character, and their influence
will long survive the animosity they occasioned. The completion of Maconochie's report was
exceedingly rapid, or it was very early commenced. He had resided but three months, when he
felt authorised to pronounce the existing system of management defective, far less in application
than in principle. The course ascribed to Maconochie was that of a prejudiced spy, seeking
evidence for a case pre-judged: that which he claimed, was the task of a philosopher, scanning
facts patent to every eye--even more striking when first seen. His conclusions he attributed
to the inevitable process by which facts are generalised, and demonstrate systems. His style,
when deliberate, is terse and explicit: his ideas he expressed with the utmost freedom; or,
as it then seemed, audacity. The colonists he treated as an operator, who indeed pities the
sufferings of his patient, but disregards a natural outcry, while expounding in the language
of science both the symptoms and the cure. Without circumlocution or reserve, he spoke of the
officers concerned in convict management as blinded by habit--as empirics who could patch and
cauterise a wound, but were involved in the hopeless prejudices of a topical practice, and
much too far gone to comprehend improvements founded on scientific principles. His deviations
from the tone of philosophical discussion were not numerous, but they were marked. The chief
police magistrate he compared to the lamplighter, by whom gas is detested. In praising that
officer's administrative talent, he observed that he belonged to the martinet school, and that
his estimate of human nature depressed it below its worth.

The representations of Maconochie, with reference to the condition of the convicts and the
character of the settlers, awakened a storm of indignation. Transportation, he said, at a distance
appeared a trivial penalty; but when surveyed more nearly, it was found to be inhuman. The
servant was assigned to a master without his consent; his employment was alien to his habits;
he labored without wages; he was met with suspicion, and ruled with insult or contempt. The
servant became sullen, the settler vindictive: slight offences were visited with punishments
"severe, to excessive cruelty,"--offences, often the ebullitions of wounded feeling, and the
tokens of a hopeless wretchedness.

Notwithstanding, this condition--unknown to the population at home--afforded no warning. The
victims were uncompensated--the great majority unreformed. Thus, employers preferred new hands
to those passed through this discipline of suffering. Such as rose in society, were seldom
really respectable; they neither regretted their crimes, nor offered atonement. But if the
prisoner was injured, the colonist was not less so. Social virtues were discouraged; all classes
were contentious and overbearing: the police, ever prying into the business of life, thus intermixed
with penal systems, filled the colony with exasperation, from which not even the mildest spirits
could escape. He did not propose to abolish transportation, but that the government by its
own officers should both punish and reform; that the prisoners, when restored to society, should
stand in the relations of free men to all except the crown, receiving wages at the current
rate; and if restrained in their expenditure, not for punishment, but for safety--"the chains
of paternal authority" thrown over them, "to protect them against themselves."

Maconochie sent to Sir G. Grey a Summary of his Report, containing his opinions of existing
systems: at his request it was at once handed to Lord John Russell, who again, conveyed it
to the committee then sitting upon the subject of transportation. Although substantially agreeing
with his report, the summary condensed, and therefore rendered more flagrant, the charges against
the colonists, and his description of the condition of the prisoners still more revolting.

This Summary appeared in an English newspaper. Hitherto the discussion had been confined to
official circles or to select correspondence: it was now open to the world; and the colonists
found, with astonishment, that the reform proposed was radical, and that the opinions of the
reformer were wholly adverse to the existing systems.

In this summary, the condition of the convicts was depicted with all the coloring of misery:
they were slaves, subject to coercion; strangers to moral impulses, save only the distant hope
of liberty. They were lodged in huts with stable roofs, damp floors, and rude furniture.[222]
They slept on truckle bedsteads, often undressed; their food was cooked in the roughest manner;
without wages, they robbed; miserable, they were drunken. Their better qualities were unregistered:
the artful escaped, while the "careless fellow," otherwise good, was involved in a long train
of penalties. A ticket obtained, the holder could acquire no property, and was worried by police
interference; and in one night his indulgence might be forfeited. Though some masters, generous
or weak, softened its rigour, assignment as a punishment, generally exceeded the desert of
minor offences: and its degradation, unfelt by old offenders, was agony to men of minds more
sensitive. The bad were little punished, the good demoralised; self respect was destroyed;
and men born to better things, sacrificed by political institutions, rather than by their personal
depravity or their crimes. This state was worse than negro slavery: the interests of the masters
were less permanent; who, though they did not fear their servants, disliked, coerced, and inveighed
against them. This slavery tainted colonial life: the colonists were harsh and overbearing
at home; they were quarrelsome neighbours, given to reckless assertion; rapacious, envious,
and disaffected. Government was unpopular, and all governors so in succession. The police,
if not corrupt, was irksome and intrusive. Labor was wasted, emigration discouraged. Crime
and drunkenness multiplied, and what a hundred and fifty is to one thousand, or thirteen hundred,
such was the crime of Van Diemen's Land to that of England and Scotland. Drunkenness had risen,
in ten years, from three per cent. to fourteen per cent.: in London, such was the difference
of tendencies between those meridians, it was reduced to an imperceptible fraction.

To remedy these evils, he demanded the abolition of domestic slavery: a separation, distinct
as their natures, between punishment and moral training; punishment, certain and appropriate--inflicted
upon system, and in seclusion; and training, not less systematic, but social and probationary--coercion
being banished, moral influence alone applied. For punishment, Maconochie deemed the system
of Port Arthur, administered by Booth, an admirable model. For training, he suggested stations
within reach of the free community, where the convicts should be prepared for society in parties
of six, joined in a common fate, by mutual agreement. They were to work out their redemption
together: their vigilance would detect, their interests depress disorders in the clubs; the
virtues of sobriety, diligence, decency, and industry, achieved by each, would be rewarded
for the common benefit of all; but for the fault of one, the whole would pay the penalty; or
should the partnership be dissolved by the intolerable injustice of any, its disbanded members
would return to their starting point, and in new combinations pursue again, and perhaps again,
the first steps, until all should reach abreast one common goal.

Such was the system of moral training and mutual responsibility, which he deemed only a new
accommodation of established principles. In his view, it was a moral field the greatest statesman
might enter with success, and thus crown himself with immortal renown. Such in substance was
the summary, afterwards amplified by details and illustrated by facts. In subsequent papers
the more offensive passages were explained and qualified; but at best, they appear not only
an indictment of opinions and systems, but of classes and communities.

Sir John Franklin promptly referred the queries of the Society to an official board, which
consisted of the chief police magistrate of the territory (Captain Forster), the director-general
of public works (Captain Cheyne), and the superintendent of convicts (Mr. Spode). In reply
to sixty-six of these questions they had only to refer to undisputed facts; but the last contemplated
both the theory and practice of transportation. In the statement of facts they united; but
the proper remedies to apply to acknowledged evils, admitted of difference--and they all differed.

The memorandum of the chief police magistrate, beside briefly describing the practice of former
times, recommended important changes for the future. Instead of assignment from the ships,
he suggested that all prisoners should be placed on the public works, for a period to be fixed
by the judges. He proposed a new distribution of time penalties: thus instead of seven, fourteen
years, and life, to recognise by law a more minute and proportionate sub-division. In assignment,
he recommended wages, rateable at the discretion of government; afterwards a first class ticket-of-leave,
with a permission to choose employers; and a second class, to include most of the privileges
of freedom, voidable only by a court of quarter sessions for specified offences. The conditional
pardon he deemed it necessary to defer a longer time than usual; since, when released from
surveillance and responsibility, ticket-holders often relapsed into the vices from which they
had previously emerged.

Mr. Spode concurred with the chief police magistrate, though with serious reservations: especially,
he deprecated any delay of assignment--a state he deemed most conducive to reform, and highly
useful to the colony. Mr. Forster had declared that female prisoners "were not available subjects
for prison discipline." Mr. Spode recommended solitary confinement, or marriage. In the meantime,
Maconochie having drawn up his report, submitted it to Captain Cheyne, and made a proselyte.

Captain Cheyne took the colony by surprise. Not only did he denounce assignment, but spoke
of the settlers with still less tenderness: he asserted that a great proportion of those entrusted
with convicts "were dissolute in their habits, and depraved in their principles." That there
"existed a fearful degree of depravity, unparalleled in any age;" that assignment was the great
source of crime and caste: for the convict "no man cared;" few were exempt from contemptuous
and brutal treatment--few escaped punishment. Such opinions could only usher in a system radically
new. Thus Captain Cheyne proposed to divide the prisoners into gangs of two hundred each, and
the adoption of task work proportioned to physical strength. He proposed wages to be paid to
the road parties, to be expended in the purchase of comforts, or reserved for a future day.
On introducing the prisoners into society, he recommended a graduated scale of indulgence,
not greatly dissimilar from the propositions stated already.

The papers of Maconochie and Cheyne were referred to the members of the executive council,
and were generally condemned. Captain Montagu urged the great danger to the public peace, from
the propagation of an opinion that the laws were unjust, the masters oppressive, and the government
cruel. Were it intended to test Maconochie's theory, he demanded a large increase of military
force. He, however, complained that gentlemen, who possessed such slight practical knowledge,
should venture to assail established systems. His remarks chiefly related to the colonial influence
of their ideas, and he exaggerated the danger to the public safety. The most dispassionate
examination of this report was given by Archdeacon Hutchins. It was far more copious in its
admissions in reference to the existing system. Little work was done; the prisoners were very
slightly reformed, and the agents often unfit. But by what means labor could be exacted, or
a "millennial age of righteousness" supersede the past, he declared himself uncertain. He was
sceptical that it was possible to obtain men of science, prudence, and equity, to administer
a system so complexed, and requiring such discretion.

Mr. Gregory, the colonial treasurer, adopted a less grave form of criticism. He soothed, by
his humour, the colonial wrath, and among the lesser gods excited unextinguishable laughter.
The charges of Maconochie and Cheyne against the colonists, he described as loose and random
shots, fired by inexperienced hands. In reducing the plan of clubs to practical details, he
insisted they were unequal, and even impossible. The minute appraisement, both of good and
evil; reckoning up the diurnal merits of the men--the balance of which was to furnish their
capital stock, to discharge their fines, to find them food and clothing, and liberty--he described
as a gigantic scheme of finance.[223] He amused himself by supposing the number of chances
which might intervene before, of ninety-six men, the whole should be divided into clubs of
six, and by the separate agreement of all combine their fortunes, and risk joint forfeitures:
each man settling into partnership with five others whom he could trust, and by whom he could
be trusted. He figured also the embarrassment of the protectors, who every evening, ledger
in hand, must make up their debtor and creditor account for the three hundred probationers.

The summary, Capt. Maconochie had enclosed, under seal of the Governor, to Sir George Grey,
without however fully explaining its contents to Sir John Franklin, or intimating its serious
and formal nature. When the journal containing it was placed in his hands, he uttered an exclamation
of astonishment, and instantly dismissed its author, but did not withdraw his friendship. Maconochie
represented that it was a private document, intended for private use--its sudden appearance
not less unexpected than embarrassing. That he had not submitted this paper to the Governor,
he ascribed to the irritation caused by the difference of their opinions; and that he did not
delay its transmission, he imputed to its overwhelming importance and its pressure on his mind.
How the spirit of the Governor was extolled by the colonists need not be formally stated, or
how his discarded secretary was accused of rashness, perfidy, and falsehood. Maconochie did
not himself disdain to acknowledge, that in error of judgment he had forwarded too early, and
in a manner seemingly clandestine, a report so decided. The imputation of duplicity was unjust:
Franklin was not wholly ignorant of the contents of the packet. Although not, perhaps, aware
that he was franking a system, yet by the same vessel he wrote to the minister that he had
not read, and could not answer for the summary. It was, however, strange for the ministers
of the crown to rely on a private report; and especially upon the truthfulness of an analysis,
which gave opinions, but deferred the evidence on which they were said to rest.

The resemblance which may be traced between the system propounded by Maconochie, and the suggestions
which have been offered at various times by writers on this subject, will not deprive him of
the credit of originality. Hazarded by their authors without much reflection, the boldness
of a reformer was required to adapt them. It may, however, be interesting to trace the details
which he combined, or the sources of those ideas which he comprehended in his scheme.

Sidney Smith suggested "new gradations of guilt to be established by law, and new names to
those gradations; a different measure of good and evil treatment attached to those denominations--as
rogues, incorrigible rogues," and so forth.

Mr. Potter M'Queen recommended a division of offenders, some of whom should be punished in
gangs, and others subject to a process simply reformatory.

Blanco White, a celebrated Spaniard, had suggested sentences to an amount of work rather than
to an extent of years. He proposed that the tread-wheel should measure the progress of the
culprit, and that every revolution should bring him nearer to liberty.

His punitive system had long been adopted by Arthur, though probably with objects somewhat
distinct: it was found in every penal settlement and road gang.

Capt. Cheyne had recommended the opening of accounts and payment for probationary labor.

At Bermuda, the stimulus of present enjoyment was offered to industry: convicts were allowed
1s. 6d. per week, half of which they were at liberty to expend in fruits, vegetables, and such
like comforts; the residue forming a fund, sometimes of £15 and £20, receivable at discharge.
These indulgences were attended with the happiest effects, and the superintendent, Sir Thomas
Usher, was so satisfied with their reformation, that he had no doubt seven-eighths were better
men at the close than at the commencement of their bondage.

The idea of clubs was found in the tithings of the ancient Britons, which were enrolled by
the authority of Alfred, and made liable for each other. Maconochie saw in the disjointed and
licentious condition of that era, something analogous to the state of convicts, and in the
result that "a bracelet might be left on the highway with security," an encouragement to hope,
from a similar organisation, for the same success. Capt. Maconochie quoted Hume in describing
these societies, but he omitted those sentences which seem to give another aspect to the institution;
for when a member of the tithings was charged with a crime, the rest could purge themselves
from responsibility, if acquitted on oath of connivance with the offender, or his escape: but,
however innocent, the clubs of Maconochie were involved in the responsibility of the transgressor--a
fundamental difference, the suppression of which was scarcely compatible with literary candour.

Bentham himself had proposed that convicts should remain at auxiliary establishments, in principle
resembling the training stations of Maconochie, until they could be prepared for the full enjoyment
of liberty. He also suggested mutual surveillance associations, in which the prisoners should
watch over, instruct, and assist each other. Archbishop Whately advocated the detention of
prisoners until their reformation was established.

Maconochie attributed his idea of marks to an observation of Messrs. Backhouse and Walker on
their usefulness in training the rising generation: they thought they discerned a faint image
of the club system at Macquarie Harbour, where devout prisoners separated themselves into a
society, and were secured from the interruption of the rest. Men from bondage, were released
in the hulks, when the sum total of marks in their favor covered a certain period of their
sentence.

Macarthur had recommended the employment of an officer, under the immediate direction of the
home secretary of state, responsible for the full execution of a sentence, to whom the entire
management of the convict department might be committed. The governors would thus be less likely
to change the aspect of transportation, according to their particular theories.[224]

Captain Maconochie was preceded in this branch of penal philosophy by a gentleman, not equally
celebrated, but who proposed changes as radical. It is amusing to observe, with what different
objects, and how diverse in spirit, similar mutations have been enforced. Dr. Henderson, the
founder of the Van Diemen's Land Society, on returning to India, offered through the press
at Calcutta a new scheme of colonisation, based on convict government. That which existed he
deemed defective in its main principles, and futile in its results. The settlers he described,
with some contempt, as an inferior class, inflated with notions of liberty and equality, and
debased by convict associations; prone to quarrel and encroach, but distressed with the endless
vexations of their lot. Forbidden to punish the insolence of their servants; exposed to the
disgrace of meeting their accusations; or when they prosecuted a charge, liable to the strictures
of the magistrate, who might penetrate the secrets of their dwellings, and censure them in
the presence of their exulting slaves. Thus, though the author assumed the tone of philosophical
discussion, he differed from others who professed to investigate principles: he observed--"We
find the convicts in the condition of slaves placed under despotic power." "It is not necessary
to enquire whether it is for their benefit;" "they are not entitled to our sympathy, should
they be treated with the rigour of slaves:" "they will not often labor when they are removed
from the dread of punishment." "The magistrates should be relieved from forms and precedents,
and punish according to the intrinsic value of offences, and for the public good." "More injury
is done by the trammels of the law, than by leaving the judges to their own discretion." Such
is the essence of his system, which, however, always presumed the existence of a lofty purpose
and a dispassionate administration.[225] For this large discretion, however, he pronounced
the existing settlers unfit: he recommended the employment of young educated gentlemen, under
a board of directors, and proposed as the primary object of discipline, neither punishment
nor intimidation, but productiveness. Power being lodged in the hands of the superintendents,
without regard to Burns' Justice, or written regulations, they would check offences at once,
and punish according to their social and material tendency. He held, as vitally important,
that all national views in reference to transportation should be subordinate to the colonial
welfare. Having formed agricultural establishments, and fitted them to become the home of capitalists,
the officers of government would give place to another class of employers. The house, the servants,
and the cleared ground, would be disposed of by the crown; the convicts, gradually trained,
exalted into a free population, and with their families would form a peasantry. The sale of
these estates would repay the original outlay; and thus, without further drafts on the treasury,
the process could be renewed in an endless succession. The lash, Dr. Henderson was far from
rejecting as an instrument of correction--"cheap and expeditious:" in short, his was a plan
of slavery, and which conveyed semi-magisterial powers to the overseers, and gave them a profit
on the labor they might exact.

Henderson had become sultanised by living in India: he was attached to the spirit of its government;
the legal formalities, which delight an Englishman, seemed to him the degradation of rank,
and a pernicious license to inferiors. In his imaginary commonwealth, he saw but two classes,
which, in the language of the East, he distinguished as the "head and the hand." He thought
the judges should be required to aid the governors by their interpretations of the law; who,
at the close of their administration, might be tried by their peers, and, if found wanting,
handed over to everlasting shame! Thus, his plan embodied the spirit of caste, of orientalism,
and of the India House. He had no simpering tenderness for the prisoner, while he attributed
to the upper classes an innate rectitude and self control, such as the British records of the
East will hardly sustain. His speculations are worth remembering, for the contrast of their
animus with those of Maconochie, and for the analogy in their details.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 221: The petition to the Commons prayed an enquiry into the efficacy of transportation
to New South Wales as a secondary punishment: whether it should be continued, and under what
alterations of the present system; or, if discontinued, in what manner, &c.--Petition, 1836.]

[Footnote 222: It was not much better in England: the Rev. J. Clay stated, that in Preston
there were 422 dwellings, inhabited by 2,400 persons, sleeping in 852 beds; that is an average
of five and a fractional part as follows:--84 cases 4 in a bed; 28 cases 5, 13 cases 6, 3 cases
7, 1 case 8; one family of 8 on bed frames, covered with a little straw.--Health of Towns Commission,
1844.]

[Footnote 223:

Dr.                             Cr.
A. 3 marks for getting drunk.        | B. 1 mark for punctual at
C. 2 marks for losing part of his    |      church.
     Sunday clothes.                 | D. 2 marks for general
E. 5 marks for wantonly assaulting F.|      steadiness and obedience.
  --                                 | F. 3 marks for self command
  10                                 |      under grievous provocation.
   6                                 |   --
  --                                 |    6
   4 loss; falling one-half on those who obtained the entire stock of
     credit.]

[Footnote 224: Macarthur's Present State, &c. pp. 47, 49.]

[Footnote 225: "They should have increased the barriers between him and the convict; and in
those investigations they should have leaned towards him (the master), even at the expense
of legal justice: his character should have been rendered sacred in the eyes of the convict."--Henderson's
Observations, p. 12.]

SECTION XX.

At this era, no one will question the integrity or benevolence of Captain Maconochie, and it
would be disgraceful in a historical work to adopt the language of prejudice, much more the
invectives of a quarrel; but it is not less important to estimate aright both his opinions
and his plans. His description of the condition of the prisoners might be easily illustrated
by examples. There were settlers, not a few, to whose care the prisoners were entrusted, who
were unfit to govern a kennel. Low in their origin, corrupt in their principles, and detestable
in their lives--themselves differing from felons in nothing but their position.

The unhappy prisoner entrusted to their charge, was insulted, coerced, and crushed. Sufficiently
cunning to avoid a palpable infraction of the orders of government, they constantly violated
their spirit. Physical weakness, or mental incapacity, they treated as evasion or contempt.
Prone to invoke the interposition of the magistracy, they drove unfortunate beings for slight
offences to a tribunal, where the presumption was always against them. In the presence of the
magistrate they were smooth and supple; but the eye of the punished prisoner marked the exultation
of cruelty triumphant, and his course was rapid from failings to faults, and from faults to crimes.

In the larger establishments, except where the humanity of the master kept alive his vigilance,
the men were sometimes placed in the power of an overseer, himself perhaps an expiree; who,
elated with office, delighted in the advent of his turn to torture. On such farms the rigour
of discipline seemed essential to order: too often, the men differed but little from slaves.
Violations of rule were deemed more pernicious by their example than their immediate inconvenience:
to pass by a fault, was thought to license its imitation. The indulgences afforded by a small
settler, whose social happiness depended on their good humour, would have proved, where many
herded together, an item of large expense. Punishments, the readiest instruments of control,
were inflicted on calculation: there was, perhaps, no anger in the breast of the accuser--the
defaulter he would have readily forgiven, had he stood alone; but impunity would relax the
reins of authority, and the lash was invoked because most convenient. The published documents
of the House of Commons illustrate the perseverance of masters, in repeating their prosecutions;
and the resistance and suffering of miserable men, who for the long period of their service
lived in constant warfare, and retaliated the social wretchedness they endured. An enquirer
could not long reside in the colony, without learning that many had borne a succession of punishments
sufficient to prostrate the strength of a giant, and which no mere animal in the creation could
survive.

Yet this is not a fair estimate of the character of the settlers, or the results of assignment;
and a want of discrimination in Maconochie, however unintentional, was a serious injustice.
It was true, that the constant vexations of a settler's life produced, too generally, a tone
and manner, striking to a stranger, because not so common under happier circumstances. The
substantial benevolence of many employers is not the less unquestionable: a large number continued
their liberated men in their service, whom they had taught the arts of industry, brought under
the influence of moral instruction, and assisted to settle in life. Hundreds scattered throughout
these colonies, who were born in the contagion of wickedness, were rescued from habits of crime
by the long and patient training of their masters. That many such have become virtuous, in
the highest sense, could not be affirmed without hazard; but can this be said of the majority
of mankind?

The charges of Maconochie incurred severe reproach, for their rashness. It is true, that the
prominence of evil fixes the attention, while humanity is retiring and noiseless--as the riot
of the streets conceals rather than illustrates the sobriety and order within doors; but a
philosopher should have taken into account this facility of error, while condemning with whatever
severity the evils he might scan: lest he should be found to set forth the exception as the
rule, and the rule as the exception.

Were persons, who have passed through assignment, to give their testimony, a very large proportion
would acknowledge that their condition was not unhappy, or their masters unkind. In his estimate
of prisoners, Capt. Maconochie was equally deceived by a generous confidence, or by his pity
for human suffering. Some were, indeed, far superior to their degradation: they retained in
bondage the principles they had derived from education, or the dispositions natural to their
character: offenders by accident, not habit; and some condemned by that last calamity incident
to society, the mistakes of public justice. A much larger class were victims of early neglect:
parental example, or of the social evils which are incident to the refinement, corruption,
and selfishness of the age; but very many, whatever the cause of their depravity, were really
and recklessly depraved. The pitying eye of the philanthropist, glancing at their history,
would find his compassion in the ascendant, and in surveying their misfortunes might forget
their crimes; but to stand in contact with them; to struggle against their passions, to hear
their profaneness, to correct their indolence, and to thwart their peculations--these were
duties and trials, in the presence of which the highest benevolence became practical, and theory
gave way before actual experience. Nor is it easy to discover by what plan the injustice of
European society, or the misfortunes of youth, can change the colonial aspect of depravity,
or supersede the penalties provoked by indisputable wickedness.

A close examination of the records in the police-office, not only proves the revolting severity
of our penal administration, but by preserving the original character and colonial career of
the prisoners, illustrates the depth, continuity, and recklessness of their guilt. It was in
this department of his investigation Maconochie dropped into serious errors. He entertained
the conviction that the far greater number were wicked, because they were unhappy: nor did
he sufficiently perceive, that in a large mass of offenders the principles which debase them
had become constitutional by habit; and that nothing, short of divine power, could change the
current of their passions, or the course of their lives. From such a view of human nature the
feeling mind revolts, and the philanthropist may justly cherish those animating hopes which
instances of reformation may save from the charge of folly; but a philosopher, constructing
a system, cannot disguise facts with impunity: and nothing is more certain than that he whose
expectations are disappointed, feels a dangerous reaction, and passes from unlimited confidence
to undiscriminating suspicion. The administration of the criminal laws, both in Great Britain
and the colonies, presents a series of alternations between rigour and laxity, which have proceeded
from the alternate ascendancy of conflicting ideas, that can never settle into harmony.

Maconochie delighted to trace the better qualities of prisoners: how even the most daring are
moved by tenderness, and when kindly spoken to, melt into tears. Unhappily these characteristics
too often exist in combination with passions which render them useless. It is, however, the
duty of all to endeavour to elicit and nourish them; for though they but slightly relieve the
depravity with which they are not incompatible, they afford a nucleus round which the social
virtues often gather, and prevent the total despondency of those who labor for the welfare
of the weak, the wicked, and the miserable.

Sir John Franklin made a last effort to save the system of assignment. He defended the colonists
from the imputations of Captain Maconochie, and exhibited statistics, which proved their anxiety
to promote the spiritual welfare of the population. He maintained that the surveillance of
the government was active, the distribution of labor usually impartial; the protection of the
prisoners from injustice secured by law, by the press, and by the constant scrutiny of the
lieutenant-governor. He argued that the quiet submission of the prisoners was not ensured so
much by military power as the consciousness that they were treated with justice. In his view
assignment, by its near resemblance to the ordinary combinations of social life, prevented
the worst consequences of penal degradation, and tended to rouse the sympathies which crime
might have rendered dormant; he, however, disapproved of assignment in towns, and for domestic
service.[226]

The abuses of assignment were prominently exhibited in the instance of Clapperton, a man greatly
trusted by his master, Mr. Alfred Stephen. He was guilty of embezzlement to a large extent:
he was tried by Captain Forster, and sentenced to fourteen years transportation; but Clapperton
was famous as a clever cook, and as such was desired by the colonial secretary, who, however,
judged it right first to enquire whether his services would be in demand for the kitchen of
the governor. The private secretary waived the precedence, and Clapperton was accordingly sent
to the residence of Captain Montagu. On the way to his destination he called at the house of
his old master, to acquaint the servants with the favorable turn in his fortune: this became
known to Mr. Alfred Stephen, who found that, by the prosecution he had instituted, he had conferred
a favor upon an official friend. He immediately appealed to Sir John Franklin, who was evidently
unconcerned in the arrangement: he recalled the man, and sent him to labor on the roads. The
public discussion of this case excited a strong sensation: it illustrated the system, which
sent one man to toil on the chain, and another to wear the livery of the second officer of
the government.

Fifty gentlemen presented a requisition to the sheriff, to call a meeting, to discuss the abuses
of transportation: this, however, he declined, and the requisitionists permitted the matter
to drop, lest an exposure should endanger assignment altogether. It could only suggest to the
British parliament new arguments for abolition, when it was found that a doubly convicted offender
was sent a few miles, into an opulent establishment, to enjoy the dominion of the larder, to
romp with the maids, traffick with the tradesmen, and command the means of vicious gratification;
while a simple rustic, fresh from his first transgression, was subject to all the hardships
of predial bondage.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 226: Despatch lo Lord Glenelg, October, 1837.]

SECTION XXI.

But Sir W. Molesworth had roused opposition to the prevailing system. The Commons' committee
examined twenty-three gentlemen, whose testimony would be without novelty to the reader of
these volumes. The greater part concurred in the inexpediency of assignment, and in the usefulness
and importance of transportation. These witnesses were charged by Maconochie with a general
indifference to the moral welfare and personal improvement of the prisoners. A colonist would,
however, easily distinguish substantial benevolence from sentimental opinions; and they knew,
by the trials of experience, how toilsome are the most generous efforts to correct habits not
to be softened by the tears of compassion, and which do not yield to the wand of the magician.

The committee recommended that transportation to New South Wales, and the settled districts
of Van Diemen's Land, should be discontinued: that establishments abroad should be limited
to places where no free settlers were allowed to enter; that the abridgment of a sentence should
be determined by fixed rules; that at its close, encouragement should be offered, to such as
might merit the favor, to go to some country where support could be more easily obtained, and
character recovered; and, finally, that no convict should be permitted to remain at the place
of his punishment after its termination.

Such were the recommendations of this famous committee, which were carried into effect only
so far as suited the convenience of the ministers; who, however, stopped transportation to
New South Wales, and revoked the order in council by which that country was constituted a penal
settlement. "On the 1st of August, 1840," said Lord John Russell, "transportation to New South
Wales will cease for ever."

In van Diemen's Land, assignment was abolished: first in domestic service, then in the towns;
and the opinion was intimated by Lord John Russell, that he inclined to the views of Archbishop
Whately, with limitations and exceptions.[227]

Among writers upon the subject, who most strenuously maintained the policy of transportation,
may be enumerated Bishop Broughton, Dr. Lang, Dr. Ross, of Hobart Town, Sir George Arthur,
Sir John Franklin, Messrs. Macarthur, David Burns, and Captain Wood. They united in vindicating
the colonists from the imputation of profligacy and cruelty. Governor Bourke was alone, among
influential persons, a secret advocate of total abolition. In writing to the secretary of state,
he intimated his conviction that, however strong the prejudice of the colonists in favor of
penal labor, they were losers by the bargain; and that the social mischief gathering around
them would soon demand a total cessation.[228]

In the voluminous productions, which for more than twenty years teemed from the colonial press,
the idea of total abolition was scarcely suggested; except, indeed, in the year 1826, a colonist,
under a fictitious signature, hinted in modest language that free labor might prove the cheapest
in the end. The notion was tolerated, while the country was ravaged by bushrangers, but it
was only treated as a curiosity and a dream.[229]

Towards the close of 1839, a meeting was held in the Mansion-house at Dublin, to promote emigration
to New Zealand. A resolution was passed, on the motion of Dr. Dickenson, the chaplain of the
Archbishop of Dublin, which exhibited a frightful portraiture of the Australian colonies.[230]
Dr. Dickenson dwelt upon the social corruption, and declared that it was in vain to imagine
a colony, so composed, could ever become respectable. The natural conclusion from the proportions
of the census, the amount of crime, and the character of the expirees, was unfavorable to the
colonies; but the imputation of general vice and juvenile depravity, were made most frequently
by projectors of rival settlements, and were tinged with selfishness. The object of the arch-bishop
and his chaplain warped their judgment, and their lofty tone induced the public to believe
that they were right; yet when they described the colonies as vast brothels--as the dwelling
of banditti, rank with the crimes and ripening to the ruin of Gomorrah--they were guilty of
injustice. Many, who labored to civilise the brutish, and to reform the vicious, read with
just indignation the statements of persons, whose station gave weight to their accusations,
when they told the world that the children of the settlers surpassed, by the precosity of their
depravation, the dreams of misanthropy. Against these sweeping opinions, Major Macarthur, then
on the spot, earnestly protested. Dr. Broughton, on this side the globe, made an energetic
remonstrance, and asserted that the report of the transportation committee could be taken only
as the collection of facts, which were spread over a long period of time, and were descriptive
only of a base and dishonored fraction. He asserted that a series of the Times newspaper contained
a succession of atrocities which, if combined, would exhibit Great Britain as the most worthless
of nations.

Inspirited by Captain Wood, of Snake Banks, the settlers of Tasmania had endeavoured to check
the calumnies which assailed them. A public meeting, held when the report of the committee
arrived, requested the Governor to do them justice. Sir John Franklin warmly denied the corruption
imputed to the settlers, and the chief facts alleged against transportation; and the clergy
united in general commendations of the liberality, decorum, and religious habits they had witnessed.
This appeal was not received with much favor in England, and the London Times pertinaciously
maintained that they were mere assertions of individuals--who represented that Van Diemen's
Land, far from being a den of vice, was the place to look for virtue.[231]

The Archbishop of Dublin presented a petition from certain citizens of London, praying for
the total abolition of transportation. He declared that no opposition, derision, or contempt,
should daunt him. He advised the establishment of insular penitentiaries in the neighbourhood
of Great Britain, and he moved that the punishment of transportation should be abolished immediately,
completely, and finally.[232] The Bishop of Exeter, always in antagonism to Dr. Whately, asserted
that his representations were exaggerated, and that crime amongst the native born population
was one half less than in England. The whig Bishop of Norwich sustained the views of Dr. Whately.
In reply, the minister stated that they had stripped transportation of its allurement. Some
punishment for life was essential; Englishmen would not endure the perpetual imprisonment of
human beings, or the sight of felons in their streets working in chains. It was resolved, however,
to reduce the proportion transported, and to promote emigration. Lord Normanby observed, that
although the most reverend prelate had made the question the subject of eight years meditation,
he had not yet discovered a substitute which could justify abolition.

The ministers of the crown resolved to diminish transportation, but nothing was prepared for
a change so great as was implied by total abolition: they, therefore, adopted a middle course,
and Lord Normanby, in a despatch to Sir George Gipps, developed the policy then in the ascendant.[233]
The principal scene of the future experiment, chosen by her Majesty's government, was Norfolk
Island, commended by its healthy climate, its fertile soil, and its seclusion.

When the former settlers relinquished this insular paradise, it was long abandoned to desolation.
The timber of the buildings was consumed by fire, lest the place should allure and accommodate
pirates or enemies. In 1825, when it was re-visited, the few swine left there had multiplied;
the domestic cats had become wild, and the trees were thronged with pigeons and doves. The
ruined walls and blackened chimneys spread over with the unpruned vine, the coffee plant, the
orange tree: the road overgrown, the stone enclosure beset with rank vegetation, amidst which
many a garden flower grew wild, presented a scene, perhaps, unprecedented, except by oriental
desolations.[234]

It was proposed to erect a prison on the island, in which a large body might be lodged; for
which plans were forwarded, and the expenses required authorised by the crown. It was intended
to remove the convicts already there; thus to preserve the prisoners transported from the united
kingdom from the contaminating example of their predecessors. A commandant was to be appointed,
at a salary of £800 per annum, who was expected to avoid the extremes of laxity and severity;
qualified by a deep interest in the moral welfare of the prisoners. To this office Captain
Maconochie was appointed by Sir George Gipps, and was permitted to test the ideas he had propounded,
and to seek the success he had foretold. It was expected by the government, that the labour
of the prisoners would soon almost cover the cost of their support.

The advent of Maconochie created vast excitement among the unfortunate beings. The active efforts
of this officer altered the tone of the settlement, and inspired the desponding with hope:
they changed the aspect of that abode of misery--where suffering, insurgency, and carnage,
had furnished a dark page in penal history. True to his creed, he removed the permanent gallows,
which met the eyes of the prisoners as they left their barracks for their morning toil, and
abolished the doubly-loaded cats, which had been heretofore the instruments of punishment.
The impulse was powerful: a new tone of command, humane even to tenderness; the promise of
speedy deliverance, wrought on the minds of the prisoners with the force of novelty and surprise.
The gaol doors were thrown open: the gaoler loitered before the deserted prison, and the prisoners
yielded to the spell of a transient enchantment. On his arrival, Maconochie issued an "exposition"
of his plan: he told the prisoners that punishment would be inflicted, to inspire the thoughtless
with reflection and the guilty with repentance. Such would be its object, and such its limits.
He exhorted them to a manly endurance and a diligent preparation to acquire the comforts of
honest bread. He assured them, that while the escape of the incorrigible would be barred for
ever, he would delight to hasten the freedom of the worthy. Thus those that earned 6,000 marks
would discharge a seven years' sentence, or 7,000 would be required for ten years' servitude;
and 8,000 was the composition proposed for a sentence for life. They were, however, to enjoy
a portion of their earnings, which they paid in exchange for luxuries, or to reserve the whole
to hasten their discharge. Thus it was possible to obtain a ticket-of-leave in one, two, or
two and a-half years, from a sentence of seven, ten years, or life. He deprecated those lengthened
punishments, which deprive men of the years of youth, and strengthen and ripen every evil propensity
into fatal maturity.

While the government of Norfolk Island developed the novel system, accounts were conveyed to
the colonies only at intervals: some in the spirit of hostility, and others because they were
idle, delighted to depict the enthusiastic Maconochie as the subject of delusion, and the butt
of ridicule among those he reformed; but the climax at last came.

Never was Norfolk Island so gay, or its inhabitants so joyful, as on the 25th May, 1840. A
proclamation had been issued by Maconochie, describing the pleasures and festivities he contemplated.
On this occasion he resolved to forget the distinction between good and bad, and to make no
exception from the general indulgence; but he entreated the men to remember that on the success
of this experiment his confidence would greatly depend: he warned them to suppress the first
tokens of disorder, and by retiring to their quarters at the sound of the bugle, prove that
they might be trusted with safety. On the morning of the day, the signal colours floated from
the staff, crowned with the union jack: twenty-one guns, collected from the vessels and from
the government-house, were mounted on the top of a hill, and fired a royal salute. The gates
were thrown open, and eighteen hundred prisoners were set free, and joined in various amusements,
of which Captain Maconochie was a frequent spectator. Eighteen hundred prisoners sat down to
dinner, and at its close, having received each a small quantity of spirits with water, they
drank health to the Queen and Maconochie--three times three for Victoria and the captain rent
the air. They then renewed their sports, or attended a theatrical performance. New scenery,
dresses, music, and songs, contributed to the hilarity of the party. The performances were,
the Castle of Andalusia, in which the comic powers of the prisoners were exhibited to their
companions, a variety of glees and songs, the tent scene of Richard III., the Purse, or the
Benevolent Tar, and finally the national anthem.[235] At the termination, no accident had occurred;
the gaol was entirely unoccupied; no theft or disorder had disgraced the day; and thus the
notion of Maconochie seemed to be illustrated by the experiment. The contrast with the past
system created the greatest amazement, and the description of this extraordinary scene excited
universal laughter.

The long habit of connecting the notions of crime and punishment, of guilt and misery, was
thus violently shocked. Its novelty gave to the policy of Norfolk Island the air of delirium:
the disciplinarians of the ancient regime raised their hands with astonishment. The place,
once of all most hateful, painted by fancy became an elysium: employment enlivened by plays,
rum, and tobacco, was described as a cheering vicissitude in a life of crime. It was not difficult
to see, that a reaction would follow, and that any untoward accident would produce a recoil.

It is said, that the prisoners at Norfolk Island deeply sympathised with their chief: that
they combined in a society for mutual reformation, and that the paper which contained the outlines
of the plan was headed by the well-known motto of the Irish liberator--

"Hereditary bondsmen! know ye not, who would be free, Themselves must strike the blow."

These promising appearances were soon followed by a catastrophe, attended with sad sacrifice
of life.

On 21st June, 1842, the Governor Phillip stood in the Bay. A prisoner, seated upon a rock,
awaited the return of his companions from the vessel, twelve in number: they had been sent
to assist in unloading the stores, and had remained all night. He heard firing on board, and
ran to give notice to the nearest officer: the vessel had been taken. There were twelve soldiers,
beside eighteen seamen. Two sentries were placed over the hatchway, but the prisoners were
allowed to pass to the deck, where they noticed the negligence of the guard, which they rapidly
communicated to their comrades below. In a few minutes they were all on deck: they rushed one
sentry, and attempted to seize his pistols; then threw him overboard: the other resigned his
gun. Two unarmed soldiers, who were accidentally on deck, struggled against them; they were
unsuccessful: one took refuge in the main chains, and slipped down into the launch; the second
attempted to swim ashore, but when within a few yards from the rock, he uttered a cry, raised
his hand, and disappeared. The sergeant having gained the deck, shot the nearest of the mutineers;
but he received a blow which rendered him insensible. The sailors ran to the forecastle, and
the hatches were fastened down; but the prisoners, unable to work the vessel, summoned two
sailors from below to assist them. The soldiers, having broken through to the captain's cabin,
fired through the gratings: several mutineers were wounded. The convicts then proposed to send
the sailors on shore, and demanded the surrender of the captain, who answered with a shot,
which struck the leader in the mouth, and passed through his brain: the remainder instantly
ran below, and the vessel was retaken. One soldier, who had attempted to reach the shore, had
been compelled to swim back, and had been saved by a mutineer; but in ascending the side of
the vessel was shot by the sergeant in mistake. The prisoners now asked quarter, which was
granted; but one, on reaching the deck, received a shot in the thigh: another raised his arms,
and cried "spare me!" Either by mistake, or in revenge, his head was blown off by the fire
of the soldiers. Thus the deck was covered with the dying and the dead. The wounded were landed,
and the bodies of those slain were buried by moonlight.

The prisoners were confined together in a large room of the gaol, where they were visited by
the chaplain and commandant, who both labored to awaken them to a sense of their guilt. Several
were remarkable for their misfortunes and their crimes. They were conveyed to Sydney in the
vessel they attempted to capture. On their arrival, crowds met them, anxious to catch a glimpse
of the men who had dared, unarmed, so bold an enterprise. They met their fate with fortitude,
and their last words were in grateful remembrance of Maconochie. The chaplain who attended
them, has described[236] the gratifying change of which he was the witness; and mentions with
natural indignation the negligence which suggested the attempt, the cowardice with which it
was resisted, and the cruelty displayed in its suppression.

Before deciding the merits of Maconochie's system by the result at Norfolk Island, it is proper
to estimate the disadvantages under which it was tried. The island was not cleared of its former
occupants, and thus its corrupting traditions were perpetuated. The officers employed had been
formed under another system: several regarded the process with contempt, and were involved
in quarrels with its projector. They resented the diminution of personal consequence, by an
attempt to give prisoners the air of free men.[237]

The application of marks in redemption from a time sentence, was forbidden in cases of second
conviction: thus, while some were spurred on to labor by the prospect of earlier liberty, the
older and worst offenders were rewarded in having at their own disposal the time they saved
by extra exertion; too often injuriously passed.

The small extent of the island, and the absence of a free employing population prevented an
uniform practical liberation of the prisoners: vessels were not always at hand, and thus tickets-of-leave
were granted to prisoners, who were employed on small farms allotted for their use. The obstruction
to rapid dispersion prevented the hope of liberty from acting on the imagination with proper
efficacy. The experimental nature of the plan was injurious to its fame. It required constant
adjustment: irregularities and excesses suggested new details, and gave to the movements of
the commandant the aspect of vacillation.

The settlement continued under the command of Maconochie four years; during which time another
Plan, known as the probation system, was launched on the sea of penal speculation. The destination
of Norfolk Island was reversed: no more the school of reform, it was to be made the lowest
deep of transportation; and well has its destiny been fulfilled.[238]

Sir George Gipps, in his address to his council,[239] announced that, after two years and a-half
trial, it was found that the expense had greatly increased; he had, therefore, resolved to
transfer the prisoners from Norfolk Island to Van Diemen's Land. It had been at first contemplated
to establish in that island not less than from two to four thousand men; but this accumulation
the ministers had found it necessary to abate: and he expressed his conviction that that settlement
would be only reserved for the restraint of incorrigible offenders, and the punishment of aggravated
crimes.[240]

Sir George Gipps deemed it necessary to visit Norfolk Island (1843). His stay was too brief
for more than a superficial survey. His impressions, on the whole, were favorable. He found
the men orderly, respectful, and contented. The "old hands," or colonial convicts, formerly
subject to a discipline severe to cruelty, were softened in their demeanour. "Great and merciful
as the amelioration, no evils had resulted equal to those prevented." The lash was disused:
the men were permitted to walk abroad during their leisure; to fish or bathe; to mix sweet
potatoes with their maize bread--an indulgence greatly prized; to use knives, and other conveniences
before denied them: yet beneath these pleasing appearances a fearful demoralization was traced.
The prisoners from Great Britain were exposed to examples of appalling sensual degradation:
vices prevailed which have ever stained that island.

The colonial press, uniformly hostile, was crowded with grotesque delineations--a style of
opposition, when not ill-founded, more fatal than the most bitter criticism. The politeness
of Maconochie to his men, and which formed a part of his system, was the subject of constant
humour: he treated them like gentlemen in distress; they regarded him as a patron and benefactor.[241]
The recall of Maconochie had been contemplated from the publication of the birthday festivities
of 1840: his administration was, however, prolonged until 1844, from the difficulty of finding
a qualified successor.

The people of New South Wales, who regretted the abolition of assignment as a calamity, disapproved
the scheme of Maconochie. The legislative council declared against the transportation of convicts
to Norfolk Island, not only as hopeless in reference to the moral recovery of the prisoners,
but tending to perpetuate all the evils of transportation without its advantages. They requested
that prohibitory measures might be adopted to prevent them from entering the colony at the
expiration of their sentences (1840).

The trial of the "mark system" in Norfolk Island during a period of four years, according to
Captain Forster, totally failed. This was the most important element of Maconochie's reform
discipline. The men, however, found means to render the accumulation of marks independent of
individual conduct and moral reformation. The amount, which ranged from eight to thirty marks
a-day, afforded ample means for corruption. Clever mechanics were rewarded for their skill;
the strong for their strength. The convict clerks falsified the accounts; men transferred their
marks to each other as a private traffic. Offences were mostly punished by the forfeiture of
marks: blasphemy at thirty; insolence at fifty; and greater insubordination, two or three hundred.
These are the representations of an officer hostile to the plan; but they are such as are probable
in themselves, and are inseparable from every system admitting indefinite good conduct as a
positive claim to liberation.[242]

The officers had been permitted to keep shops and to traffic with the prisoners; and, it was
said, that a vessel was freighted from Sydney to supply them with goods. It was, however, asserted
by Maconochie that the practice had prevailed before his time; that it was in harmony with
the milder views which led to his appointment, and conduced to the development of social virtues;
that the re-convictions of persons discharged from the island were one-third less than of prisoners
trained in Van Diemen's Land. Captain Maconochie repudiated "the fearful conclusion, that to
make men examples to others, it is necessary to destroy them, body and soul."[243]

Nothing could have been more ill-judged than the selection of Norfolk Island for the experiment.
The detention of the doubly-convicted, men long practised in the vices of the island, was still
more unfavorable to a moral reformation. The preliminary accommodations, directed by Lord Normanby,
were not provided: even friendly officers were not secured; and had the scheme been ever so
sound in its principles, its failure was inevitable. In retiring from office, Maconochie was
permitted to recommend for indulgence all whose expectation of release was justified by his
promises, and he left the island regretted by the prisoners. A total change was contemplated
in the discipline of the place: Norfolk Island returned to its former character as the "lowest
deep."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 227: These views are thus stated by the Archbishop:--"Thus, under a reformed system
of secondary punishment, supposing transportation abolished, it strikes me as desirable, with
a view to the preservation from a return to evil courses of persons released from penitentiaries,
&c., after the expiration of their punishment, that such as may have evinced a disposition
to reform, should be at their own desire furnished with means of emigrating to various colonies,
British or foreign, in which they may mix, not with such men as their old associates in crime,
but with respectable persons unacquainted with their past history; and may thus be enabled,
as the phrase is, to turn over a new leaf.' This, of course, implies that they should not emigrate
in a body to any one place, and as a distinct class. For juvenile offenders the same course
would, perhaps, be even still more suitable."--Letter addressed to the Rev. H. Bishop, on the
evidence taken before the Transportation Committee; containing his Grace's opinion on the efficacy
of the punishment of transportation.]

[Footnote 228: "I may venture to assure you, the colonists will feel great satisfaction at
the declared intention (1833) to continue transportation.... The great advantage they derive
from the labor outweighing, in their opinion, the mischief. Regarding, however, the advancement
and prosperity of this colony, as now placed on foundations which cannot be shaken, I am strongly
impressed with the belief, that the manners and morals of this people would be much improved,
and ultimately their wealth and happiness would be much augmented, by a gradual relinquishment
of the services of convicts. Yet I am aware that this sentiment is not generally prevalent
among the settlers, and I shall therefore abstain from troubling you with any detailed explanations,
upon which my opinion is founded."--Despatch of Major-General Bourke, addressed to Mr. Secretary
Stanley, 1834.]

[Footnote 229: Hobart Town Gazette.]

[Footnote 230: "Resolved--That in the opinion of this meeting it is unjustifiable to induce
intending emigrants to take up their abode in the midst of the vice and immorality which notoriously
prevail in the penal colonies; but that such persons should be encouraged to settle in countries,
where they will not only be likely to thrive in fortune, but to lead good lives, and bring
up their children in virtuous habits."]

[Footnote 231: Times, February 11th, 1840.]

[Footnote 232: House of Lords, 1840.]

[Footnote 233: May 11th, 1839.]

[Footnote 234: For an account of Norfolk Island see vol. i.]

[Footnote 235: The following are the characters and performers in the Castle of Andalusia:
Don Cæsar, John Lawrence; Scipio, George Rolfe; Fernando, James Walker; Alphonso, Henry Whitton;
Spado, James King; Pedrillo, James Monns; Sanguino, James Cranston; Rafrino, James Porter;
Calvetti, William Smith; Vasquez, R. Saunderson.]

[Footnote 236: See Chambers' Miscellany, vol. i.]

[Footnote 237: The idea of employing the prisoners as jurors, will not appear more strange
than as witnesses, except that it is unusual:--

"These may appear singular proposals, and I readily admit that the absolute rights of prisoner
jurors, and thereby their power of directly controlling the course of justice, might, without
impropriety, be for a time somewhat restricted, though, if properly trained up to the privilege,
and this latter confined exclusively to men in their last stage, they would very rarely, I
am certain, be found wanting in what was required of them. But apart from this, the objects
of interesting prisoners, when under a course of moral discipline, in the administration of
justice, and of giving them confidence in its equity, are very important ones--perhaps not
any in all their management are more so: and both are absolutely wanting now, and may well
be so in the circumstances in which they are placed.

"In 1839, the year before my arrival at Norfolk Island, 811 cases were tried; of which only
four ended in acquittal--such was the certainty at that time of conviction if accused. In 1840,
I acquitted 90 out of 416 tried. (I was then, perhaps, too difficult about evidence, and in
my inexperience carried abstract principle too far.) In 1841, I acquitted 25 out of 297 tried;
in 1842, 24 out of 326; and in 1843, 16 out of 429. I was much in the habit of employing the
officers about the court as a sort of jury, referring to them, though not formally, in cases
of difficulty, and inviting them to ask questions. And I very early appointed an intelligent
prisoner, in whom I otherwise had confidence, to speak for men accused of local offences, and
make the most of their several statements, on condition, however, that he never said for them
what he knew to be directly false. He thus served me very much, for what he did not say I sifted
with the more care; and the plan altogether, and it is nearly that in the text, answered extremely
well. It greatly improved the pleader himself: under the new impulses given to both his head
and heart, he became almost a new man: while stupid prisoners, who could not speak for themselves,
had as good a chance given them as the cleverest, and the latter, another very important point,
had no better."--Maconochie on the Management of Prisoners in the Australian Colonies.]

[Footnote 238: The following extract from Maconochie's pamphlet, may be taken as his plan,
matured by experience:--

"The management of penal settlements should be as follows:--1. A fictitious debt of 6,000,
8,000, or 10,000 marks should be created against every man, according to his offence, which
he should redeem by labour and other good conduct, having a proportion placed to his credit
daily as wages, according to his behaviour, and suffering a loss by fine if he offends. 2.
No ration should be allowed him of right, except bread and water: for every thing else, following
up the analogy thus created between marks and money, he should be charged in them. 3. He should
be allowed, however, thus to expend his marks for present indulgencies to what extent he pleases,
but never to obtain his discharge, till from his labour and economy combined (both voluntary)
he shall fully redeem his debt. 4. On first arriving at a penal settlement, for a period not
under three months, but beyond that depending entirely on his own regularity and proficiency,
and the acquisition of marks exhibiting them, his treatment should consist of moral, religious,
and other intellectual instruction in a penitentiary. 5. After this, he should for a time not
under eighteen months, but the period also depending on the acquisition of marks, serve in
a mutually responsible party, labouring for government, and disqualified for any situation
of trust, authority or indulgence under it, or for any private service. 6. After this, he should
hold for not less than fifteen months (making three years in all), and beyond this till he
has fully redeemed his marks and earned his entire discharge, a ticket-of-leave in the settlement.
7. In this last stage every reasonable facility should be afforded him to accumulate a little
money against his return to society. For this purpose small farms or gardens should be let
to men holding this indulgence, at moderate rents in kind:--any stock or edible produce they
may raise on these, beyond their rents, should be purchased from them at fair prices into the
public stores:--and a fixed proportion of them (3, 4, or 5 per cent, of the entire number of
prisoners on the settlement) should further be eligible, as selected by their superintendent,
to fill subordinate stations of trust in the general management, and receive (say) 6d. per
day as money salary, besides the marks attached to their situations. (In my proposed regulations
I suggest also another mode of giving the men a little money to take with them on their return
to society--which is, perhaps, a little extravagant, and it would thus admit, at least, of
modification; but the point is very important.) 8. On discharge the utmost possible facilities
should be afforded the men to disperse;--and their final liberation, as well as every intermediate
step towards it, should in every case depend solely on having served the minimum time, and
accumulated the corresponding number of marks. No discretion on either head should be vested
in any local authority. The whole arrangement should be, as it were, a matter of contract;
and the local authorities should have no other control over it, than to see its conditions
on both sides punctually fulfilled."--Maconochie's Management, &c.]

[Footnote 239: 1843.]

[Footnote 240: Address to the Legislative Council of New South Wales, August, 1842.]

[Footnote 241: "The whole island, we understand, is in a disorganised state, and thefts of
every day occurrence. A few weeks since a boat (the second) was ran away with by nine convicts:
one named Barratt, who a few days before he left the island had been charged with making a
picklock, for the purpose of robbing the store, of which he was acquitted; and Captain Maconochie
actually begged his pardon for allowing him to be locked up."--Sydney Herald, July 26 1841.]

[Footnote 242: Comptroller-general Forster's Report, 1845.]

[Footnote 243: Observations on the State of Norfolk Island: Par. Pap. 1847.]

SECTION XXII.

Lord Normanby was succeeded by Lord John Russell, 1840. The decrease of transportation to Norfolk
Island and Van Diemen's Land, was interpreted as an intention to terminate the system altogether.
This was avowed in the usual organs of the government, and the colonists were warned[244] to
prepare for the change which awaited them. Thus the total number arriving in Van Diemen's Land
in 1839 and 1840, was little more than 2,000: less than one-fifth of the usual number transported.

Two thousand inhabitants of New South Wales made a last effort to recover their share in the
benefits of convictism. They forwarded a petition to the British parliament, entreating the
continuance of transportation for five years longer. Lord John Russell regarded their request
as a strong argument against compliance; and a few weeks after settled the question by cancelling
the order in council! The intention of Lord John Russell was to limit transportation to the
worst class of offenders, estimated at 500 per annum.

Sir William Molesworth endeavoured to prevent the restoration of the practice, and proposed
to supply the demand for labour by anticipating the land fund. The decision of parliament was
precipitated by the contrivance of a friend of Captain Maconochie, Mr. Innes, who, in a pamphlet
of considerable acumen and literary merit, set forth the value of his scheme. He asserted that
the advantage of transportation as a reformatory and deterring system, notwithstanding the
numerous experiments, remained yet to be resolved.[245] The House of Commons negatived the
motion of Molesworth (September, 1840), and the crowded condition of the hulks excited serious
complaints. The House of Commons resolved that the sentence of transportation should be carried
into effect, and the prisoners sent out of the country. Lord John Russell then observed that,
although he admitted that it was desirable to send a certain number of convicts abroad, where
after their liberation they might earn their own livelihood, "he was bound at the same time
to consider the state of society, and not expose it to the evils likely to result from a disproportionate
number of convicts." (April, 1841.) He announced that not fewer than 2,000 would be sent to
Norfolk Island and Tasman's Peninsula.

During these debates, Captain John Montagu, the colonial secretary, was in England. The views
of this colony were favorable to transportation under the plan of assignment: many, indeed,
were anxious to obtain, through the old channels, the supply of labour so necessary to their
prosperity. Montagu succeeded in removing some impressions at Downing-street, unfavorable to
the colonial masters, and was welcomed as their successful advocate and general benefactor.
At a public dinner, given to celebrate his return, all parties united in expressions of warm
respect and gratulation. The roads, he observed, were to be made, public works to be completed,
and labour to be abundant. When in England, it was said, "Mr. Montagu steadily pursued one
object: transportation--no matter under what modification." The system of assignment had already
terminated.

It had been determined that all new prisoners should be worked in gangs, and on their dispersion
should receive two classes of tickets; the last giving them greater freedom. It had been recommended
by the secretary of state, to compel the prisoners in service, to wear a badge; but this open
mark of slavery was exceedingly offensive, and indeed, as a measure of police, exceedingly
impolitic--not only calculated to degrade well-conducted men in their own eyes, but to facilitate
recognition, and secret signs; and perhaps the confederation of a large class, whose numbers
it was so desirable to disguise.

The probation system, initiated by Sir John Franklin in obedience to the orders of Lord John
Russell, was intended to combine the principles afterwards extended by Lord Stanley with some
of the advantages supposed to result from assignment. The former practice, by which the government
transferred the prisoner without delay to the service of a master, left his fate to accident.

Sir John Franklin endeavoured to meet, as far as possible, the views of all parties. To carry
out the plans of Lord J. Russell, he proceeded to form gangs of from two to three hundred men,
and to locate them wherever it might be practicable to render them useful. The superintendence
of the scheme he committed to Captain Forster, who at the same moment held the office of police
magistrate, and whose administrative tact was highly esteemed. The effects appeared, at first,
encouraging, and the despatches of Sir John Franklin gave promise of success; but in 1842 he
found it necessary to recall the favorable opinion: he found that many great and formidable
evils were rising into strength, and that the gangs had far from realised his anticipations
in the moral improvement of convicts.[246]

It is probable that transportation would have been limited by Lord John Russell, had not a
change of ministry thrown the colonies into the hands of Lord Stanley. This nobleman, who succeeded
September, 1841, differed greatly from his predecessors. He hinted that the colonies were not
entitled to separate consideration--scarcely to notice, in the discussion of this question.
That the interest of the mother country was the final and sufficient object to regard; but
he did not hold the common views of assignment. He thought that it had been far too hastily
condemned. Thus it did not seem improbable that on his return to power the former system, so
highly prized by the colonists, would be restored.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 244: Courier, February, 1840.]

[Footnote 245: The following eloquent and touching appeal closes this very able production:--

"I am well aware of the scorn with which the main principle recognised in these pages--the
reform of the culprit, is regarded by many persons. I know that the task is pronounced a hopeless,
visionary one. But, that a being lives, is a Divine authority for believing him not to be beyond
hopes, in which his own reclamation is implied. That the task is not an easy one, is admitted;
but that is the case in reference to every other end of penal institutions as well: and, is
it really so very much more difficult to reclaim a criminal than any other man given to vice?
I believe not;--criminals, I think, will be found even more accessible to religious influences,
sympathisingly applied, than those whose errors have had a less equivocal stamp. Their apparent
hardness of heart is not always the native hardness of the rock, but more often the frozen
hardness of the ice, which the sun of human sympathies may melt again. The world, accustomed
to judge them harshly, to see only their crime, and to see it without its palliations--to out-cast
them, makes them what they become; when instead, a discreet humanity might have converted many,
after a first transgression, into useful and honored members of society.

    'The tainted branches of the tree,
      If lopp'd with care, a strength may give,
      By which the rest shall bloom and live
    All greenly fresh and wildly free:
    But if the lightning in its wrath
    The waving boughs with fury scathe,
    The massy trunk the ruin feels,
    And never more a leaf reveals.'"

--Secondary Punishments. By Frederick Maitland Innes. 1841.]

[Footnote 246: November, 1842.]

SECTION XXIII.

When the new secretary of state saw that the probation gangs, formed under Lord John Russell's
directions, were not attended with moral benefit, he attributed the failure to the defective
supply of religious teaching, and not to the inherent qualities of the scheme. It became necessary
to reorganise the whole plan, and to provide for the transportation of 4,000 men annually.
Lord Stanley was greatly perplexed; but Captain Montagu (dismissed by Sir John Franklin) and
the attorney-general of New South Wales happened to reach Downing-street at the moment: in
concert with them, Lord Stanley framed the celebrated "System of Probation," which has astonished
the whole civilised world.

The employment of men in gangs, had been practised from the foundation of these colonies: they
usually, however, consisted of persons under short colonial sentences, and who were only sequestered
awhile from society. The distribution of ten or twelve thousand men over a settled country,
in parties of from two to three hundred, and subject to an oversight not usually exceeding
the ordinary superintendence of free labor, was indeed an experiment, and fraught with the
most important consequences.

At the head of this scheme was a comptroller-general, appointed by royal warrant, who, as colonial
secretary for the convict department, was in communication with the governor alone. Under him
were superintendents and overseers, religious instructors, and all other subordinate officers.
He was authorised to make rules for the government of the whole, and these were minute and
elaborate; and gave to the department the air of a great moral and industrial association.

The most severe form of this discipline was established at Norfolk Island, for the prisoners
for life, or not less than fifteen years. For this purpose the island was relieved of persons
entitled by the promises of Captain Maconochie to a more indulgent treatment, and the remainder
were detained to assist in the preparation of buildings for the new plan. Thus the traditions
of Norfolk Island--a complicated theory of evasion, artifice, pollution, and fraud--were preserved
on the spot, and propagated through all the gangs located in Van Diemen's Land.

Persons sentenced for less offences, were transported to Van Diemen's Land: were formed into
gangs, generally placed in close vicinity to the settled districts. Into these, men were drafted
from Norfolk Island, when their first stage of probation was closed. The superintendents were
instructed to keep a record of industrial and general improvements: the religious instructors
were to insert a similar statement of moral and religious advancement. Thus it was expected,
that at any instant the character and merit of every man might be known. The denominations
selected to supply religious teaching were the episcopalian, wesleyan, and Roman catholic.
The convicts having passed this probation were declared eligible for hire at wages, and entered
the service of settlers. This portion of their progress was divided into three stages: in the
first they were entitled to one-half, in the second to two-thirds, and in the last to their
entire earnings. The masters were expected to pay the surplus into the hands of the crown;
and the passholder was informed that the sum, if not forfeited by misconduct, would be receivable
at his discharge, or in the event of death by his heirs. The fourth stage was revocable pardon,
or ticket-of-leave: the holder could possess property, sue or be sued, and enjoy all the ordinary
advantages of freedom, subject to police inspection. The last stage, pardon--conditional, or
free: if the former, it removed the consequences of conviction in the colonies--if the latter,
it had that effect in any part of the empire; but the enjoyment of this enfranchisement was
made entirely dependent on the royal pleasure, and could not be demanded as a right. Such were
the main provisions of the scheme: so fair in its outlines, so prodigious in its results.[247]

In describing the operations of the probation system, it may be desirable to trace throughout
the branch established at Norfolk Island. Major Childs, the commandant in succession to Captain
Maconochie, was nominated by Lord Stanley. His fitness for the office was assumed from his
reputation as a strict disciplinarian: in this the minister was mistaken. It must not, however,
be forgotten, that many of the most flagrant evils attributed to his administration, had existed
at different periods during the preceding experiments.

The island was annexed by parliament to the government of Van Diemen's Land, and thus terminated
a connexion with New South Wales, which had subsisted from the colonization of that country.

Captain Forster, who succeeded to the chief control, was hostile to Maconochie's system, and
proceeded to interdict all the privileges he had been accustomed to grant. A gang system of
labour was restored; the barter of food was forbidden; vegetable stalls, pork shops and general
stores, herds of swine and private gardens, were swept away. Thus, to all the prisoners left
behind by Maconochie, the new regulations were equal to an additional sentence.

Two classes of prisoners were sent to Norfolk Island under the new system. The doubly-convicted
colonial prisoners, and persons sentenced in England to transportation for fifteen years or
life: the accumulation of both was rapid. Many bushrangers and other capital convicts, were
transmitted to that settlement, to whom the arts of a prison were fully known; who were celebrated
as "flash" robbers; and who bore down by their tyrannical wickedness all the weaker or better
men within their influence. The numbers on the island in 1845, were nearly 2,000; of whom one-fourth
were colonial or doubly-convicted prisoners. For these rapid additions no preparation was made:
the buildings in the island, adapted for prison purposes, were dilapidated and insufficient.
In the sleeping wards, the hammocks were placed in contact: the men were shut up after dusk,
from eighty to a hundred together, in charge of a convict wardsman, until the morning. The
place of promiscuous association was called the lumber yard, and was subject to the dominion
of a "ring:" there old and new prisoners met; it was regarded as an Alsatia, or sanctuary.
To arrest a prisoner there would have risked the life of the constable: attempts were sometimes
met with concerted resistance: the whole body would surround the culprit, and draw their knives
in defiance; in several instances the officers were assaulted with violence. The assembly of
such numbers in one spot destroyed all authority: the officers did not choose seriously to
infringe the privileges of the "ring." Those who gave information or evidence, did so at the
venture of their lives. The harmless prisoners were the victims of oppression and rapid deterioration.
At a station where the English and colonial convicts were intermixed, the colonial suffered
various punishments, in three months 58 per cent., the English 30 per cent.; while the English
separated from direct contamination suffered only about 18 per cent. Thus contact evidently
produced one-half the penal disorders of the English convicts.

The incapacity and corrupt practices of the officers were serious obstructions to their usefulness.
Thus, they were found to traffic with the men; to obtain their services under false pretences.
The superintendents left the actual supervision of the work to the convict sub-overseers, who,
had they been inclined to preserve order, or to enforce labor, would have been liable to vengeance.

The Rev. Thomas B. Naylor, chaplain, who quitted his employment in 1845, addressed a letter
to Lord Stanley, describing the condition of Norfolk Island. This letter was intended for publication;
but being placed in the hands of Captain Maconochie, he transferred it to Lord Stanley. Mr.
Naylor asserted that the regulations were neglected: the commandant, a good intentioned but
blustering person, was utterly incompetent to secure obedience. Thus the island was ever on
the verge of insurrection. Large gangs had succeeded by mutiny in obtaining terms with their
officers: the commandant himself had been knocked down. Convicts of every grade were intermixed;
the fresh feelings of English prisoners cruelly insulted; youths seized upon with abominable
violence--inter christianos non nominandum. He described the parade of separation, classification,
and religious instruction, as an elaborate scheme of delusion.[248]

The reports transmitted by different parties from Norfolk Island, were published in the colonial
newspapers; and the lieutenant-governor (Wilmot) was induced to issue a commission of inquiry,
entrusted to R. P. Stewart, Esq., whose bold and faithful delineation of abuses more than sustained
the rumours that prevailed.

On his return to head-quarters Mr. Stewart furnished a minute report. He stated that the reins
of authority were relinquished, and that the anarchy and insubordination justified the fear
that the whole island would be involved in mutiny and bloodshed. He considered the commandant
deficient in the qualifications required by his arduous and perilous post. This report occasioned
the utmost alarm, and the executive council resolved on the removal of Major Childs without delay.

On leaving Norfolk Island, Mr. Stewart, in obedience to his instructions, recommended the commandant
to a more stringent discipline. Many colonial convicts, who constituted the "ring," exercised
a power over the less daring, which intimidated more than the authority of their officers,
or the fear of punishment. The "flash" men conspired with the cooks to deprive their fellow-prisoners
of their food, and were permitted to prepare in their own dishes the produce of their frauds.

To end this scandalous robbery of the well disposed, Mr. Stewart recommended that all should
be deprived of cooking utensils, and receive their rations dressed. Unhappily the stores on
the island were not sufficient to afford the stipulated quantity and kind of food. Many suffered
from dysentery, which the medical officer considered to be aggravated by the state in which
the maize was prepared. The sweet potato, which mixed with the meal so greatly improved the
diet, was no longer attainable; pork was absurdly issued instead of vegetables; and the deficiency
of proper food--a greater grievance than any amount of severity--provoked their murmurs and
threatenings.

