"Often I found her, when she had a little leisure, sitting in her favourite corner, in a chair
whose arms supported the big volume prepared for the blind, and passing her finger slowly over
the lines of Moliere's 'Le Medecin Malgre Lui,' chuckling to herself at the comical situations
and humorous lines. At that time her actual working vocabulary in French was very small, but
by using her judgment, as we laughingly called the mental process, she could guess at the meanings
of the words and put the sense together much as a child puzzles out a sliced object. The result
was that in a few weeks she and I spent a most hilarious hour one evening while she poured
out to me the whole story, dwelling with great gusto on its humour and sparkling wit. It was
not a lesson, but only one of her recreations."

So Helen Keller's aptitude for language is her whole mental aptitude, turned to language because
of its extraordinary value to her.

There have been many discussions of the question whether Helen Keller's achievements are due
to her natural ability or to the method by which she was taught.

It is true that a teacher with ten times Miss Sullivan's genius could not have made a pupil
so remarkable as Helen Keller out of a child born dull and mentally deficient. But it is also
true that, with ten times her native genius, Helen Keller could not have grown to what she
is, if she had not been excellently taught from the very start, and especially at the start.
And the fact remains that she was taught by a method of teaching language to the deaf the essential
principles of which are clearly expressed in Miss Sullivan's letters, written while she was
discovering the method and putting it successfully into practice. And it can be applied by
any teacher to any healthy deaf child, and in the broadest interpretation of the principles,
can be applied to the teaching of language of all kinds to all children.

In the many discussions of this question writers seem to throw us from one horn to another
of a dilemma--either a born genius in Helen Keller, or a perfect method in the teacher. Both
things may be true at once, and there is another truth which makes the dilemma imperfect. Miss
Sullivan is a person of extraordinary power. Her method might not succeed so completely in
the hands of any one else. Miss Sullivan's vigorous, original mind has lent much of its vitality
to her pupil. If Miss Keller is fond of language and not interested especially in mathematics,
it is not surprising to find Miss Sullivan's interests very similar. And this does not mean
that Miss Keller is unduly dependent on her teacher. It is told of her that, as a child of
eight, when some one tried to interfere with her, she sat sober a few moments, and, when asked
what was the trouble, answered, "I am preparing to assert my independence." Such an aggressive
personality cannot grow up in mere dependence even under the guidance of a will like Miss Sullivan's.
But Miss Sullivan by her "natural aptitude" has done for her pupil much that is not capable
of analysis and reduction to principle; she has given the inspiration which is in all close
friendship, and which rather develops than limits the powers of either person. Moreover, if
Miss Keller is a "marvel of sweetness and goodness," if she has a love "of all things good
and beautiful," this implies something about the teacher who has lived with her for sixteen years.

There is, then, a good deal that Miss Sullivan has done for Miss Keller which no other teacher
can do in just the same way for any one else. To have another Helen Keller there must be another
Miss Sullivan. To have another, well-educated deaf and blind child, there need only be another
teacher, living under favourable conditions, among plenty of external interests, unseparated
from her pupil allowed to have a free hand, and using as many as she needs of the principles
which Miss Sullivan has saved her the trouble of finding out for herself, modifying and adding
as she finds it necessary; and there must be a pupil in good health, of good native powers,
young enough not to have grown beyond recovery in ignorance. Any deaf child or deaf and blind
child in good health can be taught. And the one to do it is the parent or the special teacher,
not the school. I know that this idea will be vigorously combated by those who conduct schools
for the deaf. To be sure, the deaf school is the only thing possible for children educated
by the State. But it is evident that precisely what the deaf child needs to be taught is what
other children learn before they go to school at all. When Miss Sullivan went out in the barnyard
and picked up a little chicken and talked to Helen about it, she was giving a kind of instruction
impossible inside four walls, and impossible with more than one pupil at a time.

Surely Dr. Howe is wrong when he says, "A teacher cannot be a child." That is just what the
teacher of the deaf child must be, a child ready to play and romp, and interested in all childish
things.

The temptation to discuss, solely in the light of Helen Keller, the whole matter of educating
the deaf is a dangerous one, and one which I have not taken particular care to avoid, because
my opinions are of no authority and I have merely tried to suggest problems and reinforce some
of the main ideas expressed by Miss Sullivan, who is an authority. It is a question whether
Helen Keller's success has not led teachers to expect too much of other children, and I know
of deaf-blind children who are dragged along by their teachers and friends, and become the
subjects of glowing reports, which are pathetically untrue, because one sees behind the reports
how the children are tugged at to bring them somewhere near the exaggerated things that are
said about them.

Let me sum up a few of the elements that made Helen Keller what she is. In the first place
she had nineteen months' experience of sight and sound. This meant some mental development.
She had inherited vigour of body and mind. She expressed ideas in signs before she learned
language. Mrs. Keller writes me that before her illness Helen made signs for everything, and
her mother thought this habit the cause of her slowness in learning to speak. After the illness,
when they were dependent on signs, Helen's tendency to gesture developed. How far she could
receive communications is hard to determine, but she knew much that was going on around her.
She recognized that others used their lips; she "saw" her father reading a paper and when he
laid it down she sat in his chair and held the paper before her face. Her early rages were
an unhappy expression of the natural force of character which instruction was to turn into
trained and organized power.

It was, then, to a good subject that Miss Sullivan brought her devotion and intelligence, and
fearless willingness to experiment. Miss Sullivan's methods were so good that even without
the practical result, any one would recognize the truth of the teacher's ideas. Miss Sullivan
has in addition a vigorous personality. And finally all the conditions were good for that first
nature school, in which the teacher and pupil played together, exploring together and educating
themselves, pupil and teacher inseparable.

Miss Keller's later education is easy to understand and needs no further explanation than she
has given. Those interested may get on application to the Volta Bureau, Washington, D. C.,
the reports of the teachers who prepared her for college, Mr. Arthur Gilman of the Cambridge
School for Young Ladies, and Mr. Merton S. Keith.

CHAPTER IV. SPEECH

