"It is their gastaldo whom they are come to seek," a secretary of the Ten confided by inspiration
to his Chief, as an old man, wearing the robe of a bancalo, was escorted from the landing by
a band of gondoliers with black and crimson sashes, who disappeared under the entrance to the
palace courtyard.

"Let him be summoned and honorably discharged; he hath done no harm that may be compared with
the disaffection of the traghetti."

"Rather, let them receive him back, appointed by the Senate to honor, as Condottiere of the
border forces"; a second Chief hastened to respond, for the moment was grave, "and the command
will most excellently fit the gastaldo."

"And for the Lady of the Giustiniani, it matters little--Rome or Venice," said an old senator,
compassionately, as he followed his colleagues into the Council Chamber. "She hath so spent
herself in grieving that she knoweth naught. For the Senator Marcantonio hath vainly sought
to teach her that the interdict hath been lifted; yet even this she comprehendeth not."

"We are come, your Excellencies, for news of our Gastaldo Grande, whose presence is verily
needful for the traghetti," said the white-haired bancalo, when an audience had been granted him.

"How many of you have come as escort?" the secretary questioned carelessly.

"Eccellenza, we are enough," the bancalo answered fearlessly, and with a significant pause,
"to prove the will of the people--as well Nicolotti as Castellani. And to escort our Gastaldo
Grande with honor, since it hath pleased your excellencies to receive him--as a guest--in the
Ducal Palace."

He was the eldest of the officers of the traghetti, accustomed to respect, upheld by the united
forces of the people; this man of the people and this mouthpiece of the nobles measured each
other fearlessly as they looked into each other's faces--each coolly choosing his phrases to
carry so much as the other might count wise.

"It is well," said the secretary of the Ten, after a brief private conference with his Chiefs,
"that ye are come in numbers to do him honor. Since the Senate hath need of his brave service
and hath named Piero Salin, for exigencies of the Republic, Condottiere, with honors and men
of artillery to do him service."

And so it chanced, that because of the stress of the time, Piero Salin floated off in triumph
to Murano, named General of the Border Forces, with secret orders from the Ten.

XXXIII

The great bell in the tower of the arsenal told twelve of the day, and already the broader
waters near the rios which led to the high machicolated walls surrounding this famous Venetian
stronghold were crowded with gondolas of the people and barges from the islands filled with
men, women, and children, jubilant with holiday speech and brilliant in gala colors; for this
was one of those perpetually recurring festas which so endeared this City of the Sea to its
pleasure-loving people.

This splendid ceremony of inspection by the Doge was a day of annual triumph, for nowhere in
all the world was there such an arsenal, and nowhere such an army of workmen,--thirty-five
thousand men trained to the cunning from father to son in lifelong service,--with sailors,
sixteen thousand more, who should presently make a brave review within those battlemented walls,
to tickle the fancy of the Serenissimo and his guests. For these pageants of Venice were not
guiltless of timely hints to the onlookers of the futility of opposition to a naval force so
great and so admirably controlled; and well might the Republic be proud of the foundry, the
docks, the galleys, which the Doge and the Signoria came each year in state to visit, with
all the nobles of the Maggior Consiglio and many of the high officials.

This year it was to be a fête more magnificent than usual, for the households of the ambassadors
were bidden to the banquet which was prepared in the Great Hall of the arsenal--the attractions
of which were invitingly rehearsed, as the speakers leaned across from gondola to gondola,
to exchange their pleasant bits of gossip with dramatic exaggerations. "And the gondolas of
the ambassadors! Santa Maria! the Signori, 'i provveditori alle pompe' have nothing to say,
for there is a dispensation! the velvets and satins and golden fringes--it will be a true glimpse
of the paradiso!"

"And the great Signor medico, Acquapendente, will be made this day Cavalière of the Republic,
since he hath had the wonderful fortune to save the life of our Padre Maestro Paolo; for it
is well known there was little hope of matins or vespers more for him, the night the maledetti
bravi left the stiletto in his face!"

"And thou, Giuseppe!" cried a smiling mother from Mazzorbo, proudly indicating her boy as an
object of interest, and pushing him into a more prominent position--"the bambino hath seen
it with his own eyes, since he is prentice at the metal graver's shop of Messer Maffeo Olivieri
on the Rialto; thou, tell us, Giuseppe, of this great goblet of graven silver which the Master
Olivieri hath ready for the presentation, by order of the Signoria. È bello, ah? Bellissimo!
And the Lion of San Marco on the crown of it--è vero Giuseppe?--with wings--magnifico! And
jewels of rubino in the eyes of it; and a tongue----"

"Cosi!" interposed Giuseppe, with dramatic effectiveness, thrusting out his own with relish.
"Thus!"

"Ma c'è altro!" cried a gondolier from Murano. "There is more yet! For the magnificent galley
which the little one of the Ca' Giustiniani--he that is grandson to our Messer Girolamo Magagnati--hath
given to the Republic will be floated out from the basin of the arsenal and christened this day!"

The spirits of the light-hearted crowd effervesced in a jubilant cheer.

"I Giustiniani!"

On every page of the history of Venice the name of the Giustiniani stood brilliantly forth,
and the stained and tattered banners in the great hall of the arsenal were so many laurel leaves
for this patrician house, keeping the memory of the brilliant victory of Lepanto green in the
hearts of the Venetians. It was a Giustinian, "Gonfalonière," standard bearer, who had brought
the glorious news on his triumphant galley, the solemn Lion of San Marco waving his banner
above the drooping crescent of the Turk from every green wreathed mast. It was this Giustinian
who had been carried in triumph on the shoulders of the people, before the Doge and the Signoria--who
had been the hero when that solemn Mass, in honor of the victory, had been offered up in the
ducal chapel--when the Rialto and the Merceria, for the extravagant joy of Venice, were draped
in blue and scarlet and gold, bound laurel wreaths and decorated with the art treasures of
Titian and Giorgone. It was a name which the people were accustomed to honor. "I Giustiniani!"
they shouted.

There was a sudden hush, for the bells of the Campanile of San Marco had given the signal,
and there was a great stir before the Piazza--a train of gondolas was sweeping into line far
down the Canal Grande; the guards on the watch-towers of the arsenal were full of animation;
the gondolas of the orderlies were buzzing like bees about the barge of the grand admiral,
who awaited the coming of the Doge, in all his magnificence of satin ceremonial robes. He was
like a noble to-day, this man of the people. Viva San Marco!

The moment was approaching; orderlies glided back and forth among the excited people, prescribing
their distance; the raft of small craft shifted its position and presently a salute was fired
from all the cannon of the arsenal; the Doge, in his great State barge, was near.

The people shouted themselves hoarse when the smoke cleared away and revealed the splendid
train of private barges from Venice; there were banners of the Republic and streaming pennons
of the nobles; the gondoliers wore the colors of their house, and were welcomed by the people
on these days of pageant as a distinct addition to the glories of the festa--though on other
days the barcarioli of the traghetti poured out full vials of contempt upon their sashes of
rose and silver and the blazonry of arms upon their silken sleeves.

The gondolas and barges of the people drifted back again, close about the train of magnates
from Venice.

"I Giustiniani," they shouted; "il Marconino!"

There was a movement on one of the splendid barges bearing the colors of the Giustiniani; a
little child was caught up and held for a moment high in the air; he waved his tiny hands gleefully--it
was such beautiful play!

"It is the grandson of Messer Girolamo Magagnati, of the Stabilimenti!" they cried from the
barges of Murano, surging nearer in the waterway. "He belongs to us--to the people!" for the
story was well known, and the people of Venice were not less proud than the nobles who ruled
them. "Viva Messer Magagnati!"

The group upon the deck parted and disclosed an old man with bowed head and faltering movements,
supported by the young Senator Giustiniani, who gravely recognized their salute; but there
was no answering smile upon his face; and Girolamo Magagnati, who had proudly confronted the
senators in their Council Chamber when he had declined their proffer of nobility, in this day
of triumph scarcely raised his eyes.

The mothers on the barges lifted their little ones in their arms and taught them to call a
name--"Il Marconino!" they ventured, in hesitant, treble tones.

But now the splendid moment was near. The admiral, in his crimson robes of state, had mounted
to his place on the Doge's barge, and all the floating crowd had fallen into ordered position,
in a hush of vibrant suspense, as, with slow majesty and grace, one by one the galleys of Venice
came forth in procession from the great basin of the arsenal, sweeping round from the Punta
della Motta into the lagoon, and passing the Signoria with a salute. And now the great bell
sounded again from the arsenal tower, and was answered from the Campanile of San Marco, and
the suppressed excitement of the eager spectators burst forth in cries of greeting to the Marconino--just
set afloat--as she came gracefully around in front of the Doge's barge, full manned and saluting,
magnificently equipped, the colors of the Giustiniani waving below the crimson banner of San
Marco, with its regnant Lion, and on her prow the beautiful sculptured figure of a little child.

"Il Marconino! Il Marconino!"

There was a brief moment of confusion from the coming and going of barges,--a short delay which
brimmed their excitement to the fever pitch,--then the waters cleared again of their floating
craft, and the Senator Marcantonio Giustiniani stepped forth on the deck to christen the gift
of his child.

The people looked, and would have shouted--but forebore--gazing awestruck.

As he stood, firmly planted upon the prow, the crimson drapery of his senator's robe parted
and disclosed the firm young vigor of his limbs, in their silken hose, and his very attitude
showed power. But he wore the face of a young Greek god who had lightly dreamed that he could
fashion Life out of grace and sunshine, and had waked to carve Endurance out of Agony.

The child, held high in his arms, was radiant in the sunshine, its rosebud mouth parting over
pearly teeth in dimpling glee, the breeze lifting the light rings of hair that caressed his
soft, round throat, the hands waving in childish ecstasy and grace. As they stood, just over
the beautiful bust of the "Marconino" which Vittorio had carved upon the prow, child and father
were an embodiment of the play of the crested foam over the deep trouble of the waves beneath.

