PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

December 27, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The origin of the phrase, Le Coup de Jarnac, is interesting, and the story is well told by
Mr. MACDOWALL in Macmillan's Magazine. Good, this, for "The Two Macs."

In The Argosy, edited by Mr. CHARLES WOOD, there are two good most seasonable Ghost Stories,
by CHARLES W. WOOD, the "Rev. F.O.W." The first is not new, as there is a similar legend attached
to several old Manor Houses, one of a Sussex Family House, the Baron had first-hand, from a
witness on the premises. It lacked corroboration at the time, and is likely to do so.

The Letters passing between a fine young English Cantab, "all of the modern style," and his
family at home, are uncommonly amusing. Harry Fludyer at Cambridge is the title of the book,
published by CHATTO AND WINDUS. Well, to quote the ancient witticism in vogue tempore EDOUARDI
RECTI et DON PAOLO BEDFORDI (the great Adelphoi, or rather the great "Fill-Adelphians," as
they were once called), "Things is werry much as they used to was" at Cambridge, and University
life of to-day differs very little from that of yesterday, or the day before, or the day before
that. "Hæc olim meminisse juvabit," when, half a century hence, the rollicking author of these
letters--which, by the way, first appeared in The Granta--is telling his Minimus what "a dog,"
he, the writer, was, and what "a day he used to have," in the merry time that's past and gone.
"His health and book!" quoth the Baron.

A more muddle-headed story than The Missing Member I have not read for some considerable time.

The Baron sends HACHETTE & CIE.'S "Mon Premier Alphabet," and the moral tale of "Mlle. Marie
Sans-souci," up to the nursery where they will be much appreciated by the little Barons.

"LETT's get a Diary," quoth a Barren Jester, not the Baron DE B.W., who, had it not been Christmas
time, would have expelled the witty youth. "No joke, if you please," quoth he, "about LETTS's
Diaries. We may advertise these useful and hardy annuals in canine Latin and say, 'Libera nos!'
i.e., Letts out!"

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & Co.

P.S. I have it on the best authority that Mrs. SUTHERLAND EDWARDS, Author of The Secret of
the Princess; a Tale of Country, Camp, Court, Convict, and Cloister Life in Russia, is about
to produce a highly sensational work, entitled The Bargain of the Barmaid; a Story of Claret,
Cheese, Coffee, Cognac, and Cigar Life in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

CINDERELLA; FIN DE SIÈCLE.

(A FAIRY TALE FOR CHRISTMAS.)

The Lady Help was busy at her domestic duties when her Godmother knocked at the kitchen-door,
and entered.

"Alas, poor CINDERELLA!" said the Fairy, in a compassionate tone, "and so your stepmother and
sisters have gone to the Prince's ball, and left you to cleanse the pots and pans?"

"Thank you," returned her God-daughter; "I am perfectly well satisfied to be left with my books.
As a matter of fact, dances bore me."

And she carelessly glanced at some mathematical works that she had used when cramming for the
Senior Wranglership.

"Nonsense, my dear," responded the well-intentioned Fairy, "Get me a pumpkin, some mice--"

"Quite out of date," interrupted CINDERELLA. "I presume you intend to turn the pumpkin into
a great coach, and so forth. Eh?"

"Well," admitted the Fairy, taken aback, "ye-es."

"Quite so. Believe me, the idea is distinctly old-fashioned. Pray understand, I don't say you
can't do it. Nowadays, with EDISON and KOCH, it would be dangerous to suggest that anything
was impossible. No, I merely object to travel in a conveyance that will naturally be redolent
of the odours of the kitchen garden, and to be driven by a coachman derived from a rodent."

