"Hark! don't I hear the clock strike?--eight, nine, ten. O, naughty children! when I only came
in here to stop ten minutes; and now you have kept me here till ten o'clock! Only think how
dark it is, and what a long way over to the green. I guess you will be sorry, if you should
hear, in the morning, that I had walked off the bridge into the mill-brook, or fallen into
the cistern on the Green."

"Oh aunt Lissa! as if there wasn't any fence to the bridge, and a cover on the cistern, with
a stone on it. You needn't try to frighten us in that way."

"Well then, let me go, lest grandmother should feel frightened; but first you must pay me for
telling you a story."

"Well, how much do you ask?"

"Oh, not much; only a kiss from each of you."

"That you may have and welcome, and as many as you please."

"Good night." 

INDUSTRY AND IDLENESS.

The necessity of cultivating industrious habits in early youth was never more fully exemplified
than in the case of two girls, daughters of the same mother, who were born in a village about
forty miles from the city of Boston.

Mary and Sophia had the advantage of a mother who was herself full of enterprise and energy,
and who having been left a widow, and knowing that the success of her children depended mainly
on their own conduct, strove to bring them up to habits of industry. Sophia, the younger of
the two sisters, inherited much of her mother's tact and vivacity. When the elder persons of
the family were engaged in any domestic employment, she delighted to watch their movements;
and they, being pleased with this mark of early promise, never failed to instruct her in the
duties of a housewife. She learned rapidly under their tuition, and as she never thought she
knew too much to learn, she thrived greatly; so that when she became old enough to be married,
she was fully acquainted with all the branches of domestic business. She knew what implements
to use, and she had a dexterous way of using them, which not only helped to forward the business
of the day, but also gave much pleasure to those persons who saw with what grace and ease she
performed her labor. She married a worthy young man, who never ceased to admire her, because
his house was always in order, his meals were on the table at the exact hour, and her dress
was always arranged with a regard to neatness and to beauty, and the most perfect cleanliness
reigned from one end of the house to the other.

With regard to her sister Mary, I regret that I have too much reason to speak otherwise. Although
Mary knew very well that her fortune, for good or for evil, depended wholly upon herself, yet
she thought it unnecessary to take any pains to acquire industrious habits, or to learn the
business of housekeeping. While she was yet a very little girl, she was obstinate and self-willed,
and thought herself too good to work, or to learn any useful art. While the rest of the family
were engaged in necessary labor, she was amusing herself; and if called upon to do the least
thing, she complained bitterly as if some great injury had been done to her. She thought it
very much beneath her to learn to sew or to make bread, or to milk one of the cows, and could
talk half an hour and make very fine excuses in order to get rid of any such little exercise.
When she was twelve years old, she supposed that she was born to be a lady, and she took this
notion into her head, merely because she did not know how to do a single useful thing. If her
mother or sisters said anything to her about her dress, which was never put on as it should
be, or about her hair, which was never done up neatly, she flouted at them with disdain, and
said that clothes did not make the woman; which was very true of itself, but nevertheless,
neatness in dress is always required to make a respectable woman. One may be ever so poor and
may have ever so little clothing, but one can always tell by a girl's appearance, what is to
be laid to the account of poverty, and what is to be laid to the account of sluttishness.

Mary grew up in this way, and as she did not improve herself by useful occupation, she found
other employments which did her no good. She read every foolish and extravagant story and novel
which give false ideas of life, and which poison the mind by unreasonable views of love and
of married life. She now thought that she was becoming very accomplished, but no young man
who knew her history desired to unite himself with such a partner. At last, however, a stranger
who entirely misapprehended her character offered her his hand, and she professed to love him
very much. But her professions were all frothy and vain; for she had read so many extravagant
fictions, and knew so little of real life, that she did not know her own mind, and supposed
that she was very much in love, when she did not even know how to form a serious attachment.
The man whom she married was very respectable and well disposed, and if he had married a smart
and industrious woman would have succeeded well in the world. But Mary had never been either
smart or industrious, and she seemed to suppose that now she was married there was no necessity
for doing anything. When her husband complained that it was hard to live, she only smiled,
and said that she knew if she were a man she could get along well enough, and that every man
ought to expect, as a matter of course, to support his family. Such talk as this did not comfort
him, as he was daily laboring very hard to maintain his family, for his wife had one daughter,
and he thought that his companion ought to take an interest in his misfortunes. But she had
no regard for the cares and troubles of her husband. She thought that it was bad enough for
her to be debarred from riding in a coach, and putting on rich clothing, and she often complained
that she could not lead the life of a lady. As their family increased, her husband found that
she possessed no tact at all. He would have hired a housekeeper had he been able, in order
that his wife might lounge about and read novels all day: he would also have employed some
person to dress her, as her clothing was always put on in so negligent a manner that he was
ashamed to invite a friend to his house. But Mary imagined that she had a very hard time, because
she could not be a lady, and she associated with some idle, gossipping women, who encouraged
her to find fault with her husband, because he could not put her into a palace. Her husband
never could have his meals ready betimes, and when he went home to his dinner, the breakfast
dishes were found still unwashed upon the table. Mary's children were pretty and healthy, but
having been always allowed to go dirty and ragged, they were treated with contempt by all decent
children. These things wore upon her husband's mind more and more, until he left his family
in despair, and never returned to them again. Mary is now in the poor house; for, being too
idle to work, and never having learned how to support herself, it could not be expected that
she should provide honestly for her family. Nobody pities her, and there are many who ask her
how she likes being a lady, and who joke her about riding in her coach. Such is the fatal effect
of forming idle habits early in life. 

ENVY.

I once knew two little girls who attended the same school and occupied the same bench, yet
who were entirely unlike each other in disposition, so that while Martha was beloved by all
who knew her, Mary was as generally disliked. Martha was gentle, kind and affectionate; but
Mary was of a very different spirit Her chief fault was envy, and so much did she indulge this
base passion that she was unhappy whenever she heard one of her little school-mates praised.
She was very unkind to Martha, for she envied her the ease with which her lessons were committed
to memory, and more than all else she envied her the love of her kind teacher. Therefore she
wished to injure Martha, and to take away that love.

One day Mary, being, according to her usual custom, idle, amused herself with tearing and defacing
her books. After spending some time in this manner, she took them to her teacher, and with
many loud complaints, told her that Martha had thus injured them. She hoped that Martha would
have been punished, and that her school-mates would not love her so well, but would believe
that she had done so wrong an action.

But it was not so. The teacher did not believe Mary's complaint, and when Martha said she was
innocent, she knew that it was so, for truth was in her heart. Then one of the little girls
said that she had seen Mary herself injuring the books, and the wicked child was defeated in
the plan that she had formed.

After this, none of the children would talk or play with Mary, and she soon left the school.
None regretted her absence, for all said, "What a pity that so sweet a name should be accompanied
by so ungentle a spirit."

Now this little girl had many faults, but I think that the one wherein she most erred was envy.
We have seen how this fault led her to commit many sins. It led her to unkindness, falsehood,
and disgrace. And however trivial the circumstance I have related may appear, yet it early
stamped upon my mind a lesson which after years have not effaced. May it bear to some young
hearts the same lesson--beware of envy. 

CONCLUSION.

And now, my dear readers, we have come to the last page in this little volume; and that its
precepts may abide in all your hearts, is the sincere desire of your friend,

UNCLE HUMPHREY.