But first the law claimed him, and then politics, and then came the Civil War. As Privy Councillor
and Chancellor of the Exchequer he was in the thick of the conflict. The men whom he had now
to study were men of affairs. He had the clear and unimpassioned vision which often goes with
a warm temperament, and could scrutinize his friends without endangering his affection for
them. However deeply his feelings might be engaged, he had taken a pleasure in trying to see
them exactly as they were. When he came to judge his political enemies he continued the same
attitude of detachment, and studiously cultivated it. 'I am careful', he said in a private
letter,[12] 'to do justice to every man who hath fallen in the quarrel, on which side soever.'
'I know myself', he said in the History,[13] 'to be very free from any of those passions which
naturally transport men with prejudice towards the persons whom they are obliged to mention,
and whose actions they are at liberty to censure.' It was beyond human nature for a man who
had lived through what he did to be completely unprejudiced. He did not always scrupulously
weigh what he knew would be to the discredit of the Parliamentary leaders, nor did he ignore
mere Royalist rumour, as in the character of Pym. But his characters of them are often more
favourable than might have been expected. He may show his personal dislike, or even his sense
of their crime, but behind this he permits us to see the qualities which contributed to their
success. There can be no reasonable objection to his characters of Hampden and Cromwell. Political
partisans find them disappointing, and they are certainly not the final verdict. The worst
that can be said of them is that they are drawn from a wrong point of view; but from that point
of view their honesty is unquestionable. He does not distinguish men by their party. The folly
of his own side is exhibited as relentlessly as the knavery of his opponents. Of no one did
he write a more unfavourable character than the Earl of Arundel. He explains the failure of
Laud, and he does not conceal the weakness of Charles.

There is a broad distinction between his earlier and later characters. While he was still in
the midst of the conflict and hoped to influence it by stating what he knew, he depicted the
individual in relation to events. When the conflict was over and he was at leisure to draw
on his recollections, he made the individual to a greater degree the representative of the
type. But the distinction is not clearly marked, and Clarendon may not have suspected it. His
habitual detachment was assisted by his exile. The displeasure of his ungrateful master, from
whom he had never been separated during seventeen difficult years, had proved the vanity of
the little things of life. He looked at men from a distance that obscures what is insignificant,
and shows only the essential.

All his characters are clearly defined. We never confound them; we never have any doubt of
how he understood them. He sees men as a whole before he begins to describe them, and then
his only difficulty, as his manuscripts show, is to make his pen move fast enough. He does
not build up his characters. He does not, as many others do, start with the external features
in the hope of arriving at the central facts. He starts from the centre and works outwards.
This is the reason of the convincingness of his characters, their dramatic truth. The dramatic
sense in him is stronger than the pictorial.

He troubles little about personal appearance, or any of the traits which would enable us to
visualize his men. We understand them rather than see them. Hampden, he tells us, was 'of a
most civil and affable deportment' and had 'a flowing courtesy to all men', a 'rare temper
and modesty'; it is Sir Philip Warwick who speaks of the 'scurf commonly on his face'.[14]
He says that the younger Vane 'had an unusual aspect', and leaves us wondering what was unusual.
His Falkland is an exception, but he adopted a different scale when describing his greatest
friend and only hero. Each of his two accounts of Falkland is in fact a brief biography rather
than a character; the earliest of them, written shortly after Falkland's death, he once thought
of making into a volume by itself. In his characters proper he confines himself more strictly
than any other writer to matters of character. They are characters rather than portraits.

But portraiture was one of his passions, though he left its practice to the painters. He adorned
his houses with the likenesses of his friends. It was fitting that our greatest character writer
should have formed one of the great collections of pictures of 'wits, poets, philosophers,
famous and learned Englishmen'.[15] To describe them on paper, and to contrive that they should
look down on him from his walls, were different ways of indulging the same keen and tireless
interest in the life amid which he moved.

[Footnote 1: For a detailed examination of the composition and value of Clarendon's History
see the three articles by Professor C.H. Firth in The English Historical Review for 1904. No
student of Clarendon can ever afford to neglect them.]

[Footnote 2: See No. 33, introductory note.]

[Footnote 3: See No. 6, introductory note, and No. 36, p. 140, II. 17-22 note.]

[Footnote 4: Contractions have been expanded. The punctuation of the original is slight, and
it has been found desirable occasionally to insert commas, where seventeenth century printers
would have inserted them; but the run of the sentences has not been disturbed. In modernized
versions Clarendon's long sentences are sometimes needlessly subdivided.]

[Footnote 5: State Papers, 1773, vol. ii, pp. 288-9.]

[Footnote 6: Letter of March 16, 1647; infra p. 275.]

[Footnote 7: Letter of January 8, 1647; T.H. Lister, Life of Clarendon, 1837, vol. iii, p. 43.]

[Footnote 8: Ed. 1857, part 1, § 85; omitted in the edition of 1759.]

[Footnote 9: Of the thirty-seven characters by Clarendon in this volume, twenty-seven are from
the 'Manuscript Life'.]

[Footnote 10: State Papers, 1786, vol. iii, supp., p. xlv.]

[Footnote 11: Clarendon's lifetime coincided almost exactly with Milton's. He was two months
younger than Milton, and died one month later.]

[Footnote 12: December 14, 1647; infra p. 275.]

[Footnote 13: Book ix, ad init.; ed. Macray, vol. iv, p. 3.]

[Footnote 14: See note, p. 129, ll. 22 ff.]

[Footnote 15: Evelyn's Diary, December 20, 1668. See the account of 'The Clarendon Gallery'
in Lady Theresa Lewis's Lives of the friends of Clarendon, 1852, vol. i, pp. 15* ff., and vol.
iii, pp. 241 ff.]

IV. Other Character Writers.

When Clarendon's History was at last made public, no part of it was more frequently discussed,
or more highly praised, than its characters--'so just', said Evelyn, 'and tempered without
the least ingredient of passion or tincture of revenge, yet with such natural and lively touches
as show his lordship well knew not only the persons' outsides, but their very interiors.'[1]
About the same time, and probably as a consequence of the publication of Clarendon's work,
Bishop Burnet proceeded to put into its final form the History on which he had been engaged
since 1683. He gave special attention to his characters, some of which he entirely rewrote.
They at once invited comparison with Clarendon's, and first impressions, then as now, were
not in their favour. 'His characters are miserably wrought,' said Swift.[2]

Burnet was in close touch with the political movements of his time. 'For above thirty years,'
he wrote, 'I have lived in such intimacy with all who have had the chief conduct of affairs,
and have been so much trusted, and on so many important occasions employed by them, that I
have been able to penetrate far into the true secrets of counsels and designs.'[3] He had a
retentive memory, and a full share of worldly wisdom. But he was not an artist like Clarendon.
His style has none of the sustained dignity, the leisurely evolution, which in Clarendon is
so strangely at variance with the speed of composition. All is stated, nothing suggested. There
is a succession of short sentences, each perfectly clear in itself, often unlinked to what
precedes or follows, and always without any of the finer shades of meaning. It is rough work,
and on the face of it hasty, and so it would have remained, no matter how often it had been
revised. Again, Burnet does not always have perfect control of the impression he wishes to
convey. It is as if he did not have the whole character in his mind before he began to write,
but collected his thoughts from the stores of his memory in the process of composition. We
are often uncertain how to understand a character before we have read it all. In some cases
he seems to be content to present us with the material from which, once we have pieced it together
ourselves, we can form our own judgement. But what he tells us has been vividly felt by him,
and is vividly presented. The great merit of his characters lies in their realism. Of the Earl
of Lauderdale he says that 'He made a very ill appearance: He was very big: His hair red, hanging
oddly about him: His tongue was too big for his mouth, which made him bedew all that he talked
to.' There is no hint of this in Clarendon's character of Lauderdale, nor could Clarendon have
spoken with the same directness. Burnet has no circumlocutions, just as in private life he
was not known to indulge in them. When he reports what was said in conversation he gives the
very words. Lauderdale 'was a man, as the Duke of Buckingham called him to me, of a blundering
understanding'. Halifax 'hoped that God would not lay it to his charge, if he could not digest
iron, as an ostrich did, nor take into his belief things that must burst him'. It is the directness
and actuality of such things as these, and above all his habit of describing men in relation
to himself, that make his best characters so vivid. Burnet is seldom in the background. He
allows us to suspect that it is not the man himself whom he presents to us but the man as he
knew him, though he would not have admitted the distinction. He could not imitate the detachment
of Clarendon, who is always deliberately impersonal, and writes as if he were pronouncing the
impartial judgement of history from which there can be no appeal. Burnet views his men from
a much nearer distance. His perspective may sometimes be at fault, but he gets the detail.

With all his shrewd observation, it must be admitted that his range of comprehension was limited.
There were no types of character too subtle for Clarendon to understand. There were some which
eluded Burnet's grasp. He is at his best in describing such a man as Lauderdale, where the
roughness of the style is in perfect keeping with the subject. His character of Shaftesbury,
whom he says he knew for many years in a very particular manner, is a valuable study and a
remarkable companion piece to Dryden's Achitophel. But he did not understand Halifax. The surface
levity misled him. He tells us unsuspectingly as much about himself as about Halifax. He tells
us that the Trimmer could never be quite serious in the good bishop's company.

We learn more about Halifax from his own elaborate study of Charles II. It is a prolonged analysis
by a man of clear vision, and perfect balance of judgement, and no prepossessions; who was,
moreover, master of the easy pellucid style that tends to maxim and epigram. A more impartial
and convincing estimate of any king need never be expected. In method and purpose, it stands
by itself. It is indeed not so much a character in the accepted sense of the word as a scientific
investigation of a personality. Others try to make us see and understand their men; Halifax
anatomizes. Yet he occasionally permits us to discover his own feelings. Nothing disappointed
him more in the merry monarch than the company he kept, and his comprehensive taste in wit.
'Of all men that ever liked those who had wit, he could the best endure those who had none':
there is more here than is on the surface; we see at once Charles, and his court, and Halifax
himself.

As a class, the statesmen and politicians more than hold their own with the other character
writers of the seventeenth century. Shaftesbury's picture of Henry Hastings, a country gentleman
of the old school, who carried well into the Stuart period the habits and life of Tudor times,
shows a side of his varied accomplishments which has not won the general recognition that it
deserves. It is a sketch exactly in the style of the eighteenth century essayists. It makes
us regret that the fragmentary autobiography in which it is found did not come down to a time
when it could have included sketches of his famous contemporaries. The literary skill of his
grandson, the author of the Characteristicks, was evidently inherited.

Sir Philip Warwick has the misfortune to be overshadowed by Clarendon. As secretary to Charles
I in the year before his execution, and as a minor government official under Charles II, he
was well acquainted with men and affairs. Burnet describes him as 'an honest but a weak man',
and adds that 'though he pretended to wit and politics, he was not cut out for that, and least
of all for writing of history'. He could at least write characters. They do not bear the impress
of a strong personality, but they have the fairmindedness and the calm outlook that spring
from a gentle and unassertive nature. His Cromwell and his Laud are alike greatly to his credit;
and the private view that he gives us of Charles has unmistakable value. His Mémoires remained
in manuscript till 1701, the year before the publication of Clarendon's History. It was the
first book to appear with notable characters of the men of the Civil Wars and the Protectorate.

The Histories and Memoirs of the seventeenth century contain by far the greatest number of
its characters; but they are to be found also in scattered Lives, and in the collections of
material that mark the rise of modern English biography. There are disappointingly few by Fuller.
In his Worthies of England he is mainly concerned with the facts of a man's life, and though,
in his own word, he fleshes the bare skeleton of time, place, and person with pleasant passages,
and interlaces many delightful stories by way of illustrations, and everywhere holds us by
the quaint turns of his fertile fancy, yet the scheme of the book did not involve the depicting
of character, nor did it allow him to deal with many contemporaries whom he had known. In the
present volume it has therefore been found best to represent him by the studies of Bacon and
Laud in his Church-History. Bacon he must have described largely from hearsay, but what he
says of Laud is an admirable specimen of his manner, and leaves us wishing that he had devoted
himself in larger measure to the worthies of his own time.

There are no characters in Aubrey's Brief Lives, which are only a series of rough jottings
by a prince of gossips, who collected what he could and put it all on paper 'tumultuarily'.
But the extracts from what he says of Hobbes and Milton may be considered as notes for a character,
details that awaited a greater artist than Aubrey was to work them into a picture; and if Hobbes
and Milton are to be given a place, as somehow or other they must be, in a collection of the
kind that this volume offers, there is no option but to be content with such notes, for there
is no set character of either of them. The value of the facts which Aubrey has preserved is
shown by the use made of them by all subsequent biographers, and notably by Anthony à Wood,
whose Athenæ Oxonienses is our first great biographical dictionary.

Lives of English men of letters begin in the seventeenth century, and from Rawley's Life of
Bacon, Sprat's Life of Cowley, and the anonymous Life of Fuller it is possible to extract passages
which are in effect characters. But Walton's Lives, the best of all seventeenth century Lives,
refuse to yield any section, for each of them is all of a piece; they are from beginning to
end continuous character studies, revealing qualities of head and heart in their affectionate
record of fact and circumstance. There is therefore nothing in this volume from his Life of
Donne or his Life of Herbert. As a rule the characters that can be extracted from Lives are
much inferior to the clearly defined characters that are inserted in Histories. The focus is
not the same. When an author after dealing with a man's career sums up his mental and moral
qualities in a section by itself, he does not trust to it alone to convey the total impression.
He is too liable also to panegyric, like Rawley, who could see no fault in his master Bacon,
or Sprat who, in Johnson's words, produced a funeral oration on Cowley. There are no characters
of scholars or poets so good as Clarendon's Hales, or Earle, or Chillingworth, or Waller; and
for this reason, that Clarendon envisages them, not as scholars or poets but as men, and gains
a definite and complete effect within small compass.

Roger North made his life of his brother Lord Keeper Guilford an account of the bench and bar
under Charles II and James II. Of its many sketches of lawyers whom he or his brother had known,
none is so perfect in every way as the character of Chief Justice Saunders, a remarkable man
in real life who still lives in North's pages with all his eccentricities. North writes at
length about his brother, yet nowhere do we see and understand him so clearly as we see and
understand Saunders. The truth is that a life and a character have different objects and methods
and do not readily combine. It is only a small admixture of biography that a character will
endure. And with the steady development of biography the character declined.

A character must be short; and it must be entire, the complete expression of a clear judgement.
The perfect model is provided by Clarendon. He has more than formal excellence. Braybrooke,
1825, vol. ii, p. 290.]

[Footnote 2: 'Short Remarks on Bishop Burnet's History,' ad init.]

[Footnote 3: History, preface]

[Footnote 4: Boswell, 1769, ed. G.B. Hill, vol. ii, p. 79.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Sooner or later every one who deals with the history or literature of the seventeenth century
has to own his obligations to Professor C.H. Firth. My debt is not confined to his writings,
references to which will be found continually in the notes. At every stage of the preparation
of this volume I have had the advantage of his most generous interest. And with his name it
is a pleasure to associate in one compendious acknowledgement the names of Dr. Henry Bradley
and Mr. Percy Simpson.

Oxford, September 16, 1918. D.N.S.

1.

JAMES I.

James VI of Scotland 1567. James I 1603.

Born 1566. Died 1625.

By ARTHUR WILSON.

