In the month of February of the same year, Professor Finney, of Oberlin College, said: “We
have had the fact before our minds, that, in general, the Protestant churches of our country,
as such, were either apathetic or hostile to nearly all the moral reforms of the age. There
are partial exceptions, yet not enough to render the fact otherwise than general. We have also
another corroborated fact: the almost universal absence of revival influence in the churches.
The spiritual apathy is almost all-pervading, and is fearfully deep; so the religious press
of the whole land testifies.... Very extensively, church-members are becoming devotees of fashion,—join
hands with the ungodly in parties of pleasure, in dancing, in festivities, etc.... But we need
not expand this painful subject. Suffice it that the evidence thickens and rolls heavily upon
us, to show that the churches generally are becoming sadly degenerate. They have gone very
far from the Lord, and He has withdrawn Himself from them.”

And a writer in the Religious Telescope testified: “We have never witnessed such a general
declension of religion as at the present. Truly, the church should awake, and search into the
cause of this affliction; for as an affliction every one that loves Zion must view it. When
we call to mind how ‘few and far between’ cases of true conversion are, and the almost unparalleled
impertinence and hardness of sinners, we almost involuntarily exclaim, ‘Has God forgotten to
be gracious? or, Is the door of mercy closed?’ ”

Such a condition never exists without cause in the church itself. The spiritual darkness which
falls upon nations, upon churches and individuals, is due, not to an arbitrary withdrawal of
the succors of divine grace on the part of God, but to neglect or rejection of divine light
on the part of men. A striking illustration of this truth is presented in the history of the
Jewish people in the time of Christ. By their devotion to the world and forgetfulness of God
and His word, their understanding had become darkened, their hearts earthly and sensual. Thus
they were in ignorance concerning Messiah’s advent, and in their pride and unbelief they rejected
the Redeemer. God did not even then cut off the Jewish nation from a knowledge of, or a participation
in, the blessings of salvation. But those who rejected the truth lost all desire for the gift
of Heaven. They had “put darkness for light, and light for darkness,” until the light which
was in them became darkness; and how great was that darkness!

It suits the policy of Satan, that men should retain the forms of religion, if but the spirit
of vital godliness is lacking. After their rejection of the gospel, the Jews continued zealously
to maintain their ancient rites, they rigorously preserved their national exclusiveness, while
they themselves could not but admit that the presence of God was no longer manifest among them.
The prophecy of Daniel pointed so unmistakably to the time of Messiah’s coming, and so directly
foretold His death, that they discouraged its study, and finally the rabbis pronounced a curse
on all who should attempt a computation of the time. In blindness and impenitence, the people
of Israel for eighteen hundred years have stood, indifferent to the gracious offers of salvation,
unmindful of the blessings of the gospel, a solemn and fearful warning of the danger of rejecting
light from heaven.

Wherever the cause exists, the same results will follow. He who deliberately stifles his convictions
of duty because it interferes with his inclinations, will finally lose the power to distinguish
between truth and error. The understanding becomes darkened, the conscience callous, the heart
hardened, and the soul is separated from God. Where the message of divine truth is spurned
or slighted, there the church will be enshrouded in darkness; faith and love grow cold, and
estrangement and dissension enter. Church-members center their interests and energies in worldly
pursuits, and sinners become hardened in their impenitence.

The first angel’s message of Revelation 14, announcing the hour of God’s judgment, and calling
upon men to fear and worship Him, was designed to separate the professed people of God from
the corrupting influences of the world, and to arouse them to see their true condition of worldliness
and backsliding. In this message, God had sent to the church a warning, which, had it been
accepted, would have corrected the evils that were shutting them away from Him. Had they received
the message from heaven, humbling their hearts before the Lord, and seeking in sincerity a
preparation to stand in His presence, the Spirit and power of God would have been manifested
among them. They came from different denominations, and their denominational barriers were
hurled to the ground; conflicting creeds were shivered to atoms; the unscriptural hope of a
temporal millennium was abandoned, false views of the second advent were corrected, pride and
conformity to the world were swept away; wrongs were made right; hearts were united in the
sweetest fellowship, and love and joy reigned supreme. If this doctrine did this for the few
who did receive it, it would have done the same for all, if all had received it.

But the churches generally did not accept the warning. Their ministers, who, as “watchmen unto
the house of Israel,” should have been the first to discern the tokens of Jesus’ coming, had
failed to learn the truth, either from the testimony of the prophets or from the signs of the
times. As worldly hopes and ambitions filled the heart, love for God and faith in His word
had grown cold; and when the advent doctrine was presented, it only aroused their prejudice
and unbelief. The fact that the message was, to a great extent, preached by laymen, was urged
as an argument against it. As of old, the plain testimony of God’s word was met with the inquiry,
“Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed?” And finding how difficult a task it
was to refute the arguments drawn from the prophetic periods, many discouraged the study of
the prophecies, teaching that the prophetic books were sealed, and were not to be understood.
Multitudes, trusting implicitly to their pastors, refused to listen to the warning; and others,
though convinced of the truth, dared not confess it, lest they should be “put out of the synagogue.”
The message which God had sent for the testing and purification of the church, revealed all
too surely how great was the number who had set their affections on this world rather than
upon Christ. The ties which bound them to earth were stronger than the attractions heavenward.
They chose to listen to the voice of worldly wisdom, and turned away from the heart-searching
message of truth.

In refusing the warning of the first angel, they rejected the means which Heaven had provided
for their restoration. They spurned the gracious messenger that would have corrected the evils
which separated them from God, and with greater eagerness they turned to seek the friendship
of the world. Here was the cause of that fearful condition of worldliness, backsliding, and
spiritual death which existed in the churches in 1844. It is employed in Scripture to designate
the various forms of false or apostate religion. In Revelation 17, Babylon is represented as
a woman,—a figure which is used in the Bible as the symbol of a church, a virtuous woman representing
a pure church, a vile woman an apostate church.

In the Bible the sacred and enduring character of the relation that exists between Christ and
His church is represented by the union of marriage. The Lord has joined His people to Himself
by a solemn covenant, He promising to be their God, and they pledging themselves to be His,
and His alone. He declares, “I will betroth thee unto Me forever; yea, I will betroth thee
unto Me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in loving-kindness, and in mercies.”(624) And
again, “I am married unto you.”(625) And Paul employs the same figure in the New Testament
when he says, “I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin
to Christ.”(626)

The unfaithfulness of the church to Christ in permitting her confidence and affection to be
turned from Him, and allowing the love of worldly things to occupy the soul, is likened to
the violation of the marriage vow. And thy renown went forth among the heathen for thy beauty:
for it was perfect through My comeliness, which I had put upon thee.... But thou didst trust
in thine own beauty, and playedst the harlot because of thy renown.” “As a wife treacherously
departeth from her husband, so have ye dealt treacherously with Me, O house of Israel, saith
the Lord;” “as a wife that committeth adultery, which taketh strangers instead of her husband.”(627)

In the New Testament, language very similar is addressed to professed Christians who seek the
friendship of the world above the favor of God. The purple and scarlet color, the gold and
precious stones and pearls, vividly picture the magnificence and more than kingly pomp affected
by the haughty see of Rome. And no other power could be so truly declared “drunken with the
blood of the saints” as that church which has so cruelly persecuted the followers of Christ.
Babylon is also charged with the sin of unlawful connection with “the kings of the earth.”
It was by departure from the Lord, and alliance with the heathen, that the Jewish church became
a harlot; and Rome, corrupting herself in like manner by seeking the support of worldly powers,
receives a like condemnation.

Babylon is said to be “the mother of harlots.” By her daughters must be symbolized churches
that cling to her doctrines and traditions, and follow her example of sacrificing the truth
and the approval of God, in order to form an unlawful alliance with the world. The message
of Revelation 14, announcing the fall of Babylon, must apply to religious bodies that were
once pure and have become corrupt. Since this message follows the warning of the judgment,
it must be given in the last days; therefore it cannot refer to the Roman Church alone, for
that church has been in a fallen condition for many centuries. Furthermore, in the eighteenth
chapter of the Revelation, the people of God are called upon to come out of Babylon. According
to this scripture, many of God’s people must still be in Babylon. And in what religious bodies
are the greater part of the followers of Christ now to be found? Without doubt, in the various
churches professing the Protestant faith. At the time of their rise, these churches took a
noble stand for God and the truth, and His blessing was with them. Even the unbelieving world
was constrained to acknowledge the beneficent results that followed an acceptance of the principles
of the gospel. And the term “Babylon”—confusion—may be appropriately applied to these bodies,
all professing to derive their doctrines from the Bible, yet divided into almost innumerable
sects, with widely conflicting creeds and theories.

Besides a sinful union with the world, the churches that separated from Rome present other
of her characteristics. Those of whom we thought better things are turning aside one by one
from the fundamentals of the faith. Through and through, I believe, the very heart of England
is honeycombed with a damnable infidelity which dares still go into the pulpit and call itself
Christian.”

What was the origin of the great apostasy? How did the church first depart from the simplicity
of the gospel? By conforming to the practices of paganism, to facilitate the acceptance of
Christianity by the heathen. The apostle Paul declared, even in his day, “The mystery of iniquity
doth already work.”(634) During the lives of the apostles the church remained comparatively
pure. But “toward the latter end of the second century most of the churches assumed a new form;
the first simplicity disappeared, and insensibly, as the old disciples retired to their graves,
their children, along with new converts, ... came forward and new-modeled the cause.”(635)
To secure converts, the exalted standard of the Christian faith was lowered, and as the result
“a pagan flood, flowing into the church, carried with it its customs, practices, and idols.”(636)
As the Christian religion secured the favor and support of secular rulers, it was nominally
accepted by multitudes; but while in appearance Christians, many “remained in substance pagans,
especially worshiping in secret their idols.”(637)

Has not the same process been repeated in nearly every church calling itself Protestant? As
its founders, those who possessed the true spirit of reform, pass away, their descendants come
forward and “new-model the cause.” While blindly clinging to the creed of their fathers and
refusing to accept any truth in advance of what they saw, the children of the reformers depart
widely from their example of humility, self-denial, and renunciation of the world. Thus “the
first simplicity disappears.” A worldly flood, flowing into the church, “carries with it its
customs, practices, and idols.”

Alas, to what a fearful extent is that friendship of the world which is “enmity with God,”
now cherished among the professed followers of Christ! How widely have the popular churches
throughout Christendom departed from the Bible standard of humility, self-denial, simplicity,
and godliness! Said John Wesley, in speaking of the right use of money: “Do not waste any part
of so precious a talent, merely in gratifying the desire of the eye, by superfluous or expensive
apparel, or by needless ornaments. Waste no part of it in curiously adorning your houses; in
superfluous or expensive furniture; in costly pictures, painting, gilding.... Lay out nothing
to gratify the pride of life, to gain the admiration or praise of men.... ‘So long as thou
doest well unto thyself, men will speak good of thee.’ So long as thou art ‘clothed in purple
and fine linen, and farest sumptuously every day,’ no doubt many will applaud thy elegance
of taste, thy generosity and hospitality. But do not buy their applause so dear. Rather be
content with the honor that cometh from God.”(638) But in many churches of our time, such teaching
is disregarded.

A profession of religion has become popular with the world. Rulers, politicians, lawyers, doctors,
merchants, join the church as a means of securing the respect and confidence of society, and
advancing their own worldly interests. Thus they seek to cover all their unrighteous transactions
under a profession of Christianity. The various religious bodies, re-enforced by the wealth
and influence of these baptized worldlings, make a still higher bid for popularity and patronage.
Splendid churches, embellished in the most extravagant manner, are erected on popular avenues.
The worshipers array themselves in costly and fashionable attire. A high salary is paid for
a talented minister to entertain and attract the people. His sermons must not touch popular
sins, but be made smooth and pleasing for fashionable ears. Thus fashionable sinners are enrolled
on the church-records, and fashionable sins are concealed under a pretense of godliness.

