The Gradenigo Chamber was somewhere on the Rio Facade, behind the present position of the Bridge
of Sighs; i.e. about the point marked on the roof by the dotted lines in the woodcut; it is
not known whether low or high, but probably on a first story. The great facade of the Ziani
Palace being, as above mentioned, on the Piazzetta, this chamber was as far back and out of
the way as possible; secrecy and security being obviously the points first considered.

SECTION XV. But the newly constituted Senate had need of other additions to the ancient palace
besides the Council Chamber. A short, but most significant, sentence is added to Sansovino's
account of the construction of that room. "There were, near it," he says, "the Cancellaria,
and the Gheba or Gabbia, afterwards called the Little Tower." [Footnote: "Vi era appresso la
Cancellarla, e la Gheba o Gabbia, iniamata poi Torresella,"---P. 324. A small square tower
is seen above the Vine angle in the view of Venice dated 1500, and attributed to Albert Durer.
It appears about 25 feet square, and is very probably the Torresella in question.]

Gabbia means a "cage;" and there can be no question that certain apartments were at this time
added at the top of the palace and on the Rio Facade, which were to be used as prisons. Whether
any portion of the old Torresella still remains is a doubtful question; but the apartments
at the top of the palace, in its fourth story, were still used for prisons as late as the beginning
of the seventeenth century. [Footnote: Vide Bettio, Lettera, p. 23.] I wish the reader especially
to notice that a separate tower or range of apartments was built for this purpose, in order
to clear the government of the accusations so constantly made against them, by ignorant or
partial historians, of wanton cruelty to prisoners. The stories commonly told respecting the
"piombi" of the Ducal Palace are utterly false. Instead of being, as usually reported, small
furnaces under the leads of the palace, they were comfortable rooms, with good flat roofs of
larch, and carefully ventilated. [Footnote: Bettio, Lettera, p. 20. "Those who wrote without
having seen them described them as covered with lead; and those who have seen them know that,
between their flat timber roofs and the sloping leaden roof of the palace the interval is five
metres where it is least, and nine where it is greatest."] The new chamber, then, and the prisons,
being built, the Great Council first sat in their retired chamber on the Rio in the year 1309.

SECTION XVI. Now, observe the significant progress of events. They had no sooner thus established
themselves in power than they were disturbed by the conspiracy of the Tiepolos, in the year
1310. In consequence of that conspiracy the Council of Ten was created, still under the Doge
Gradenigo; who, having finished his work and left the aristocracy of Venice armed with this
terrible power, died in the year 1312, some say by poison. He was succeeded by the Doge Marino
Giorgio, who reigned only one year; and then followed the prosperous government of John Soranzo.
There is no mention of any additions to the Ducal Palace during his reign, but he was succeeded
by that Francesco Dandolo, the sculptures on whose tomb, still existing in the cloisters of
the Salute, may be compared by any traveller with those of the Ducal Palace. Of him it is recorded
in the Savina Chronicle: "This Doge also had the great gate built which is at the entry of
the palace, above which is his statue kneeling, with the gonfalon in hand, before the feet
of the Lion of St. Mark's." [Footnote: "Questo Dose anche fese far la porta granda che se al
intrar del Pallazzo, in su la qual vi e la sua statua che sta in zenocchioni con lo confalon
in man, davanti li pie de lo Lion S. Marco."--Savin Chronicle, Cod. Ven. p. 120.]

SECTION XVII. It appears, then, that after the Senate had completed their Council Chamber and
the prisons, they required a nobler door than that of the old Ziani Palace for their Magnificences
to enter by. This door is twice spoken of in the government accounts of expenses, which are
fortunately preserved, [Footnote: These documents I have not examined myself, being satisfied
of the accuracy of Cadorin, from whom I take the passages quoted.] in the following terms:--

"1335, June 1. We, Andrew Dandolo and Mark Loredano, procurators of St. Mark's, have paid to
Martin the stone-cutter and his associates.... [Footnote: "Libras tres, soldeos 15 grossorum."--Cadorin,
189, I.] for a stone of which the lion is made which is put over the gate of the palace."

"1344, November 4. We have paid thirty-five golden ducats for making gold leaf, to gild the
lion which is over the door of the palace stairs."

The position of this door is disputed, and is of no consequence to the reader, the door itself
having long ago disappeared, and been replaced by the Porta della Carta.

SECTION XVIII. But before it was finished, occasion had been discovered for farther improvements.
The Senate found their new Council Chamber inconveniently small, and, about thirty years after
its completion, began to consider where a larger and more magnificent one might be built. The
government was now thoroughly established, and it was probably felt that there was some meanness
in the retired position, as well as insufficiency in the size, of the Council Chamber on the
Rio. The first definite account which I find of their proceedings, under these circumstances,
is in the Caroldo Chronicle: [Footnote: Cod. Ven., No. CXLI. p. 365.]

"1340. On the 28th of December, in the preceding year, Master Marco Erizzo, Nicolo Soranzo,
and Thomas Gradenigo, were chosen to examine where a new saloon might be built in order to
assemble therein the Greater Council.... On the 3rd of June, 1341, the Great Council elected
two procurators of the work of this saloon, with a salary of eighty ducats a year."

It appears from the entry still preserved in the Archivio, and quoted by Cadorin, that it was
on the 28th of December, 1340, that the commissioners appointed to decide on this important
matter gave in their report to the Grand Council, and that the decree passed thereupon for
the commencement of a new Council Chamber on the Grand Canal. [Footnote: Sansovino is more
explicit than usual in his reference to this decree: "For it having appeared that the place
(the first Council Chamber) is not capacious enough, the saloon on the Grand Canal was ordered."
"Per cio parendo che il luogo non fosse capace, fu ordinata la Sala sul Canal Grande."--P. 324.]

The room then begun is the one now in existence, and its building involved the building of
all that is best and most beautiful in the present Ducal Palace, the rich arcades of the lower
stories being all prepared for sustaining this Sala del Gran Consiglio.

SECTION XIX. In saying that it is the same now in existence, I do not mean that it has undergone
no alterations; as we shall see hereafter, it has been refitted again and again, and some portions
of its walls rebuilt; but in the place and form in which it first stood, it still stands; and
by a glance at the position which its windows occupy, as shown in Figure II. above, the reader
will see at once that whatever can be known respecting the design of the Sea Facade, must be
gleaned out of the entries which refer to the building of this Great Council Chamber.

Cadorin quotes two of great importance, to which we shall return in due time, made during the
progress of the work in 1342 and 1344; then one of 1349, resolving that the works at the Ducal
Palace, which had been discontinued during the plague, should be resumed; and finally one in
1362, which speaks of the Great Council Chamber as having been neglected and suffered to fall
into "great desolation," and resolves that it shall be forthwith completed. [Footnote: Cadorin,
185, 2. The decree of 1342 is falsely given as of 1345 by the Sivos Chronicle, and by Magno;
while Sanuto gives the decree to its right year, 1342, but speaks of the Council Chamber as
only begun in 1345.]

The interruption had not been caused by the plague only, but by the conspiracy of Faliero,
and the violent death of the master builder. [Footnote: Calendario. See Appendix I., Vol. III.]
The work was resumed in 1362, and completed within the next three years, at least so far as
that Guariento was enabled to paint his Paradise on the walls; [Footnote: "II primo che vi
colorisse fu Guariento il quale l'anno 1365 vi fece il Paradiso in testa della sala."--Sansovino.]
so that the building must, at any rate, have been roofed by this time. Its decorations and
fittings, however, were long in completion; the paintings on the roof being only executed in
1400. [Footnote: "L'an poi 1400 vi fece il ciclo compartita a quadretti d'oro, ripieni di stelle,
ch'era la insegna del Doge Steno."--Sansovino, lib. viii.] They represented the heavens covered
with stars, [Footnote: "In questi tempi si messe in oro il ciclo della sala del Gran Consiglio
et si fece il pergole del finestra grande chi guarda sul canale, adornato l'uno e l'altro di
stelle, eh' erano la insegne del Doge."--Sansovino, lib. xiii. Compare also Pareri, p. 129.]
this being, says Sansovino, the bearings of the Doge Steno. Almost all ceilings and vaults
were at this time in Venice covered with stars, without any reference to armorial bearings;
but Steno claims, under his noble title of Stellifer, an important share in completing the
chamber, in an inscription upon two square tablets, now inlaid in the walls on each side of
the great window towards the sea:

  "MILLE QUADRINGENTI CURREBANT QUATUOR ANNI
  HOC OPUS ILLUSTRIS MICHAEL DUX STELLIFER AUXIT."

And in fact it is to this Doge that we owe the beautiful balcony of that window, though the
work above it is partly of more recent date; and I think the tablets bearing this important
inscription have been taken out and reinserted in the newer masonry. The labor of these final
decorations occupied a total period of sixty years. The Grand Council sat in the finished chamber
for the first time in 1423. In that year the Gothic Ducal Palace of Venice was completed. It
had taken, to build it, the energies of the entire period which I have above described as the
central one of her life.

SECTION XX. 3rd. The RENAISSANCE PALACE. I must go back a step or two, in order to be certain
that the reader understands clearly the state of the palace in 1423. The works of addition
or renovation had now been proceeding, at intervals, during a space of a hundred and twenty-three
years. Three generations at least had been accustomed to witness the gradual advancement of
the form of the Ducal Palace into more stately symmetry, and to contrast the Works of sculpture
and painting with which it was decorated,--full of the life, knowledge, and hope of the fourteenth
century,--with the rude Byzantine chiselling of the palace of the Doge Ziani. The magnificent
fabric just completed, of which the new Council Chamber was the nucleus, was now habitually
known in Venice as the "Palazzo Nuovo;" and the old Byzantine edifice, now ruinous, and more
manifest in its decay by its contrast with the goodly stones of the building which had been
raised at its side, was of course known as the "Palazzo Vecchio." [Footnote: Baseggio (Pareri,
p. 127) is called the Proto of the New Palace. Farther notes will be found in Appendix I.,
Vol. III.] That fabric, however, still occupied the principal position in Venice. The new Council
Chamber had been erected by the side of it towards the Sea; but there was not then the wide
quay in front, the Riva dei Schiavoni, which now renders the Sea Facade as important as that
to the Piazzetta. There was only a narrow walk between the pillars and the water; and the old
palace of Ziani still faced the Piazzetta, and interrupted, by its decrepitude, the magnificence
of the square where the nobles daily met. Every increase of the beauty of the new palace rendered
the discrepancy between it and the companion building more painful; and then began to arise
in the minds of all men a vague idea of the necessity of destroying the old palace, and completing
the front of the Piazzetta with the same splendor as the Sea Facade. But no such sweeping measure
of renovation had been Contemplated by the Senate when they first formed the plan of their
new Council Chamber. First a single additional room, then a gateway, then a larger room; but
all considered merely as necessary additions to the palace, not as involving the entire reconstruction
of the ancient edifice. The exhaustion of the treasury, and the shadows upon the political
horizon, rendered it more than imprudent to incur the vast additional expense which such a
project involved; and the Senate, fearful of itself, and desirous to guard against the weakness
of its own enthusiasm, passed a decree, like the effort of a man fearful of some strong temptation
to keep his thoughts averted from the point of danger. It was a decree, not merely that the
old palace should not be rebuilt, but that no one should propose rebuilding it. The feeling
of the desirableness of doing so was, too strong to permit fair discussion, and the Senate
knew that to bring forward such a motion was to carry it.

SECTION XXI. The decree, thus passed in order to guard against their own weakness, forbade
any one to speak of rebuilding the old palace under the penalty of a thousand ducats. But they
had rated their own enthusiasm too low: there was a man among them whom the loss of a thousand
ducats could not deter from proposing what he believed to be for the good of the state.

Some excuse was given him for bringing forward the motion, by a fire which occurred in 1419,
and which injured both the church of St. Mark's, and part of the old palace fronting the Piazzetta.
What followed, I shall relate in the words of Sanuto. [Footnote: Cronaca Sanudo, No. cxxv.
in the Marcian Library, p. 568.]

SECTION XXII. "Therefore they set themselves with all diligence and care to repair and adorn
sumptuously, first God's house; but in the Prince's house things went on more slowly, for it
did not please the Doge [Footnote: Tomaso Mocenigo.] to restore it in the form in which it
was before; and they could not rebuild it altogether in a better manner, so great was the parsimony
of these old fathers; because it was forbidden by laws, which condemned in a penalty of a thousand
ducats any one who should propose to throw down the old palace, and to rebuild it more richly
and with greater expense. But the Doge, who was magnanimous, and who desired above all things
what was honorable to the city, had the thousand ducats carried into the Senate Chamber, and
then proposed that the palace should be rebuilt; saying: that, 'since the late fire had ruined
in great part the Ducal habitation (not only his own private palace, but all the places used
for public business) this occasion was to be taken for an admonishment sent from God, that
they ought to rebuild the palace more nobly, and in a way more befitting the greatness to which,
by God's grace, their dominions had reached; and that his motive in proposing this was neither
ambition, nor selfish interest: that, as for ambition, they might have seen in the whole course
of his life, through so many years, that he had never done anything for ambition, either in
the city, or in foreign business; but in all his actions had kept justice first in his thoughts,
and then the advantage of the state, and the honor of the Venetian name: and that, as far as
regarded his private interest, if it had not been for this accident of the fire, he would never
have thought of changing anything in the palace into either a more sumptuous or a more honorable
form; and that during the many years in which he had lived in it, he had never endeavored to
make any change, but had always been content with it, as his predecessors had left it; and
that he knew well that, if they took in hand to build it as he exhorted and besought them,
being now very old, and broken down with many toils, God would call him to another life before
the walls were raised a pace from the ground. And that therefore they might perceive that he
did not advise them to raise this building for his own convenience, but only for the honor
of the city and its Dukedom; and that the good of it would never be felt by him, but by his
successors.' Then he said, that 'in order, as he had always done, to observe the laws,... he
had brought with him the thousand ducats which had been appointed as the penalty for proposing
such a measure, so that he might prove openly to all men that it was not his own advantage
that he sought, but the dignity of the state.'" There was no one (Sanuto goes on to tell us)
who ventured, or desired, to oppose the wishes of the Doge; and the thousand ducats were unanimously
devoted to the expenses of the work. "And they set themselves with much diligence to the work;
and the palace was begun in the form and manner in which it is at present seen; but, as Mocenigo
had prophesied, not long after, he ended his life, and not only did not see the work brought
to a close, but hardly even begun."

SECTION XXIII. There are one or two expressions in the above extracts which if they stood alone,
might lead the reader to suppose that the whole palace had been thrown down and rebuilt. We
must however remember, that, at this time, the new Council Chamber, which had been one hundred
years in building, was actually unfinished, the council had not yet sat in it; and it was just
as likely that the Doge should then propose to destroy and rebuild it, as in this year, 1853,
it is that any one should propose in our House of Commons to throw down the new Houses of Parliament,
under the title of the "old palace," and rebuild them.

SECTION XXIV. The manner in which Sanuto expresses himself will at once be seen to be perfectly
natural, when it is remembered that although we now speak of the whole building as the "Ducal
Palace," it consisted, in the minds of the old Venetians, of four distinct buildings. There
were in it the palace, the state prisons, the senate-house, and the offices of public business;
in other words, it was Buckingham Palace, the Tower of olden days, the Houses of Parliament,
and Downing Street, all in one; and any of these four portions might be spoken of, without
involving an allusion to any other. "Il Palazzo" was the Ducal residence, which, with most
of the public offices, Mocenigo did propose to pull down and rebuild, and which was actually
pulled down and rebuilt. But the new Council Chamber, of which the whole facade to the Sea
consisted, never entered into either his or Sanuto's mind for an instant, as necessarily connected
with the Ducal residence.

I said that the new Council Chamber, at the time when Mocenigo brought forward his measure,
had never yet been used. It was in the year 1422 [Footnote: Vide notes in Appendix.] that the
decree passed to rebuild the palace: Mocenigo died in the following year, and Francesco Foscari
was elected in his room. [Footnote: On the 4th of April, 1423, according to the copy of the
Zancarol Chronicle in the Marcian Library, but previously, according to the Caroldo Chronicle,
which makes Foscari enter the Senate as Doge on the 3rd of April.] The Great Council Chamber
was used for the first time on the day when Foscari entered the Senate as Doge,--the 3rd of
April, 1423, according to the Caroldo Chronicle; [Footnote: "Nella quale (the Sala del Gran
Consiglio) non si fece Gran Consiglio salvo nell' anno 1423, alli 3, April, et fu il primo
giorno che il Duce Foscari venisse in Gran Consiglio dopo la sua creatione."--Copy in Marcian
Library, p. 365.] the 23rd, which is probably correct, by an anonymous MS., No. 60, in the
Correr Museum; [Footnote: "E a di 23 April (1423, by the context) sequente fo fatto Gran Conscio
in la salla nuovo dovi avanti non esta piu fatto Gran Conscio si che el primo Gran Conscio
dopo la sua (Foscari's) creation fo fatto in la sala nuova, nel qual conscio fu el Marchese
di Mantoa," &c., p. 426.]--and, the following year, on the 27th of March, the first hammer
was lifted up against the old palace of Ziani. [Footnote: Compare Appendix I. Vol. III.]

SECTION XXV. That hammer stroke was the first act of the period properly called the "Renaissance"
It was the knell of the architecture of Venice,--and of Venice herself.

The central epoch of her life was past; the decay had already begun: I dated its commencement
above (Ch. I., Vol. I.) from the death of Mocenigo. A year had not yet elapsed since that great
Doge had been called to his account: his patriotism, always sincere, had been in this instance
mistaken; in his zeal for the honor of future Venice, he had forgotten what was due to the
Venice of long ago. A thousand palaces might be built upon her burdened islands, but none of
them could take the place, or recall the memory, of that which was first built upon her unfrequented
shore. It fell; and, as if it had been the talisman of her fortunes, the city never flourished
again.

SECTION XXVI. I have no intention of following out, in their intricate details, the operations
which were begun under Foscari and continued under succeeding Doges till the palace assumed
its present form, for I am not in this work concerned, except by occasional reference, with
the architecture of the fifteenth century: but the main facts are the following. The palace
of Ziani was destroyed; the existing facade to the Piazzetta built, so as both to continue
and to resemble, in most particulars, the work of the Great Council Chamber. It was carried
back from the Sea as far as the Judgment angle; beyond which is the Porta della Carta, begun
in 1439, and finished in two years, under the Doge Foscari; [Footnote: "Tutte queste fatture
si compirono sotto il dogade del Foscari, nel 1441."--Pareri, p. 131.] the interior buildings
connected with it were added by the Doge Christopher Moro, (the Othello of Shakspeare) [Footnote:
This identification has been accomplished, and I think conclusively, by my friend Mr. Rawdon
Brown, who has devoted all the leisure which, during the last twenty years his manifold office
of kindness to almost every English visitant of Venice have left him, in discovering and translating
the passages of the Venetian records which bear upon English history and literature. I shall
have occasion to take advantage hereafter of a portion of his labors, which I trust will shortly
be made public.] in 1462.

SECTION XXVII. By reference to the figure the reader will see that we have now gone the round
of the palace, and that the new work of 1462 was close upon the first piece of the Gothic palace,
the new Council Chamber of 1301. Some remnants of the Ziani Palace were perhaps still left
between the two extremities of the Gothic Palace; or as is more probable, the last stones of
it may have been swept away after the fire of 1419, and replaced by new apartments for the
Doge. But whatever buildings, old or new, stood on this spot at the time of the completion
of the Porta della Carta were destroyed by another great fire in 1479, together with so much
of the palace on the Rio that, though the saloon of Gradenigo, then known as the Sala de' Pregadi,
was not destroyed, it became necessary to reconstruct the entire facades of the portion of
the palace behind the Bridge of Sighs, both towards the court and canal. This work was entrusted
to the best Renaissance architects of the close of the fifteenth and opening of the sixteenth
centuries; Antonio Ricci executing the Giant's staircase, and on his absconding with a large
sum of the public money, Pietro Lombardo taking his place. The whole work must have been completed
towards the middle of the sixteenth century. The architects of the palace, advancing round
the square and led by fire, had more than reached the point from which they had set out; and
the work of 1560 was joined to the work of 1301-1340, at the point marked by the conspicuous
vertical line in Figure II on the Rio Facade.

SECTION XVIII. But the palace was not long permitted to remain in this finished form. Another
terrific fire, commonly called the great fire, burst out in 1574, and destroyed the inner fittings
and all the precious pictures of the Great Council Chamber, and of all the upper rooms on the
Sea Facade, and most of those on the Rio Facade, leaving the building a mere shell, shaken
and blasted by the flames. It was debated in the Great Council whether the ruin should not
be thrown down, and an entirely new palace built in its stead. The opinions of all the leading
architects of Venice were taken, respecting the safety of the walls, or the possibility of
repairing them as they stood. These opinions, given in writing, have been preserved, and published
by the Abbe Cadorin, in the work already so often referred to; and they form one of the most
important series of documents connected with the Ducal Palace.

I cannot help feeling some childish pleasure in the accidental resemblance to my own name in
that of the architect whose opinion was first given in favor of the ancient fabric, Giovanni
Rusconi. Others, especially Palladio, wanted to pull down the old palace, and execute designs
of their own; but the best architects in Venice, and to his immortal honor, chiefly Francesco
Sansovino, energetically pleaded for the Gothic pile, and prevailed. It was successfully repaired,
and Tintoret painted his noblest picture on the wall from which the Paradise of Guariento had
withered before the flames.

SECTION XXIX. The repairs necessarily undertaken at this time were however extensive, and interfered
in many directions with the earlier work of the palace: still the only serious alteration in
its form was the transposition of the prisons, formerly at the top of the palace to the other
side of the Rio del Palazzo; and the building of the Bridge of Sighs, to connect them with
the palace, by Antonio da Ponte. The completion of this work brought the whole edifice into
its present form; with the exception of alterations indoors, partitions, and staircases among
the inner apartments, not worth noticing, and such barbarisms and defacements as have been
suffered within the last fifty years, by, I suppose nearly every building of importance in Italy.

SECTION XXX. Now, therefore, we are at liberty to examine some of the details of the Ducal
Palace, without any doubt about their dates. I shall not however, give any elaborate illustrations
of them here, because I could not do them justice on the scale of the page of this volume,
or by means of line engraving. I believe a new era is opening to us in the art of illustration,
[Footnote: See the last chapter of the third volume, Stones of Venice.] and that I shall be
able to give large figures of the details of the Ducal Palace at a price which will enable
every person who is interested in the subject to possess them; so that the cost and labor of
multiplying illustrations here would be altogether wasted. I shall therefore direct the reader's
attention only to such points of interest as can be explained in the text.

SECTION XXXI. First, then, looking back to the woodcut at the beginning of this chapter, the
reader will observe that, as the building was very nearly square on the ground plan, a peculiar
prominence and importance were given to its angles, which rendered it necessary that they should
be enriched and softened by sculpture. I do not suppose that the fitness of this arrangement
will be questioned; but if the reader will take the pains to glance over any series of engravings
of church towers or other four-square buildings in which great refinement of form has been
attained, he will at once observe how their effect depends on some modification of the sharpness
of the angle, either by groups of buttresses, or by turrets and niches rich in sculpture. It
is to be noted also that this principle of breaking the angle is peculiarly Gothic, arising
partly out of the necessity of strengthening the flanks of enormous buildings, where composed
of imperfect materials, by buttresses or pinnacles; partly out of the conditions of Gothic
warfare, which generally required a tower at the angle; partly out of the natural dislike of
the meagreness of effect in buildings which admitted large surfaces of wall, if the angle were
entirely unrelieved. The Ducal Palace, in its acknowledgment of this principle, makes a more
definite concession to the Gothic spirit than any of the previous architecture of Venice. No
angle, up to the time of its erection, had been otherwise decorated than by a narrow fluted
pilaster of red marble, and the sculpture was reserved always, as in Greek and Roman work,
for the plane surfaces of the building, with, as far as I recollect, two exceptions only, both
in St. Mark's; namely, the bold and grotesque gargoyle on its north-west angle, and the angels
which project from the four inner angles under the main cupola; both of these arrangements
being plainly made under Lombardic influence. And if any other instances occur, which I may
have at present forgotten, I am very sure the Northern influence will always be distinctly
traceable in them.

SECTION XXXII. The Ducal Palace, however, accepts the principle in its completeness, and throws
the main decoration upon its angles. The central window, which looks rich and important in
the woodcut, was entirely restored in the Renaissance time, as we have seen, under the Doge
Steno; so that we have no traces of its early treatment; and the principal interest of the
older palace is concentrated in the angle sculpture, which is arranged in the following manner.
The pillars of the two bearing arcades are much enlarged in thickness at the angles, and their
capitals increased in depth, breadth, and fulness of subject; above each capital, on the angle
of the wall, a sculptural subject is introduced, consisting, in the great lower arcade, of
two or more figures of the size of life; in the upper arcade, of a single angel holding a scroll:
above these angels rise the twisted pillars with their crowning niches, already noticed in
the account of parapets in the seventh chapter; thus forming an unbroken line of decoration
from the ground to the top of the angle.

SECTION XXXIII. It was before noticed that one of the corners of the palace joins the irregular
outer buildings connected with St. Mark's, and is not generally seen. There remain, therefore,
to be decorated, only the three angles, above distinguished as the Vine angle, the Fig-tree
angle, and the Judgment angle; and at these we have, according to the arrangement just explained,--

First, Three great bearing capitals (lower arcade).

Secondly, Three figure subjects of sculpture above them (lower arcade).

Thirdly, Three smaller bearing capitals (upper arcade).

Fourthly, Three angels above them (upper arcade).

Fifthly, Three spiral, shafts with niches.

SECTION XXXIV. I shall describe the bearing capitals hereafter, in their order, with the others
of the arcade; for the first point to which the reader's attention ought to be directed is
the choice of subject in the great figure sculptures above them. These, observe, are the very
corner stones of the edifice, and in them we may expect to find the most important evidences
of the feeling, as well as the skill, of the builder. If he has anything to say to us of the
purpose with which he built the palace, it is sure to be said here; if there was any lesson
which he wished principally to teach to those for whom he built, here it is sure to be inculcated;
if there was any sentiment which they themselves desired to have expressed in the principal
edifice of their city, this is the place in which we may be secure of finding it legibly inscribed.

SECTION XXXV. Now the first two angles, of the Vine and Fig-tree, belong to the old, or true
Gothic, Palace; the third angle belongs to the Renaissance imitation of it: therefore, at the
first two angles, it is the Gothic spirit which is going to speak to us; and, at the third,
the Renaissance spirit.

The reader remembers, I trust, that the most characteristic sentiment of all that we traced
in the working of the Gothic heart, was the frank confession of its own weakness; and I must
anticipate, for a moment, the results of our inquiry in subsequent chapters, so far as to state
that the principal element in the Renaissance spirit, is its firm confidence in its own wisdom.

Hear, then, the two spirits speak for themselves.

The first main sculpture of the Gothic Palace is on what I have called the angle of the Fig-tree:

Its subject is the FALL OF MAN.

The second sculpture is on the angle of the Vine:

Its subject is the DRUNKENNESS OF NOAH.

The Renaissance sculpture is on the Judgment angle:

Its subject is the JUDGMENT OF SOLOMON.

It is impossible to overstate, or to regard with too much admiration, the significance of this
single fact. It is as if the palace had been built at various epochs, and preserved uninjured
to this day, for the sole purpose of teaching us the difference in the temper of the two schools.

SECTION XXXVI. I have called the sculpture on the Fig-tree angle the principal one; because
it is at the central bend of the palace, where it turns to the Piazetta (the facade upon the
Piazetta being, as we saw above, the more important one in ancient times). The great capital,
which sustains this Fig-tree angle, is also by far more elaborate than the head of the pilaster
under the Vine angle, marking the preeminence of the former in the architect's mind. It is
impossible to say which was first executed, but that of the Fig-tree angle is somewhat rougher
in execution, and more stiff in the design of the figures, so that I rather suppose it to have
been the earliest completed.

SECTION XXXVII. In both the subjects, of the Fall and the Drunkenness, the tree, which forms
the chiefly decorative portion of the sculpture,--fig in the one case, vine in the other,--was
a necessary adjunct. Its trunk, in both sculptures, forms the true outer angle of the palace;
boldly cut separate from the stonework behind, and branching out above the figures so as to
enwrap each side of the angle, for several feet, with its deep foliage. Nothing can be more
masterly or superb than the sweep of this foliage on the Fig-tree angle; the broad leaves lapping
round the budding fruit, and sheltering from sight, beneath their shadows, birds of the most
graceful form and delicate plumage. The branches are, however, so strong, and the masses of
stone hewn into leafage so large, that, notwithstanding the depth of the undercutting, the
work remains nearly uninjured; not so at the Vine angle, where the natural delicacy of the
vine-leaf and tendril having tempted the sculptor to greater effort, he has passed the proper
limits of his art, and cut the upper stems so delicately that half of them have been broken
away by the casualties to which the situation of the sculpture necessarily exposes it. What
remains is, however, so interesting in its extreme refinement, that I have chosen it for the
subject of the first illustration [Footnote: See note at end of this chapter.] rather than
the nobler masses of the fig-tree, which ought to be rendered on a larger scale. Although half
of the beauty of the composition is destroyed by the breaking away of its central masses, there
is still enough in the distribution of the variously bending leaves, and in the placing of
the birds on the lighter branches, to prove to us the power of the designer. I have already
referred to this Plate as a remarkable instance of the Gothic Naturalism; and, indeed, it is
almost impossible for the copying of nature to be carried farther than in the fibres of the
marble branches, and the careful finishing of the tendrils: note especially the peculiar expression
of the knotty joints of the vine in the light branch which rises highest. Yet only half the
finish of the work can be seen in the Plate: for, in several cases, the sculptor has shown
the under sides of the leaves turned boldly to the light, and has literally carved every rib
and vein upon them, in relief; not merely the main ribs which sustain the lobes of the leaf,
and actually project in nature, but the irregular and sinuous veins which chequer the membranous
tissues between them, and which the sculptor has represented conventionally as relieved like
the others, in order to give the vine leaf its peculiar tessellated effect upon the eye.

SECTION XXXVIII. As must always be the case in early sculpture, the figures are much inferior
to the leafage; yet so skilful in many respects, that it was a long time before I could persuade
myself that they had indeed been wrought in the first half of the fourteenth century. Fortunately,
the date is inscribed upon a monument in the Church of San Simeon Grande, bearing a recumbent
statue of the saint, of far finer workmanship, in every respect, than those figures of the
Ducal Palace, yet so like them, that I think there can be no question that the head of Noah
was wrought by the sculptor of the palace in emulation of that of the statue of St. Simeon.
In this latter sculpture, the face is represented in death; the mouth partly open, the lips
thin and sharp, the teeth carefully sculptured beneath; the face full of quietness and majesty,
though very ghastly; the hair and beard flowing in luxuriant wreaths, disposed with the most
masterly freedom, yet severity, of design, far down upon the shoulders; the hands crossed upon
the body, carefully studied, and the veins and sinews perfectly and easily expressed, yet without
any attempt at extreme finish or display of technical skill. This monument bears date 1317,
[Footnote: "IN XRI--NOIE AMEN ANNINCARNATIONIS MCCCXVII. INESETBR." "In the name of Christ,
Amen, in the year of the incarnation, 1317, in the month of September," &c.] and its sculptor
was justly proud of it; thus recording his name:

  "CELAVIT MARCUS OPUS HOC INSIGNE ROMANIS,
      LAUDIBUS NON PARCUS EST SUA DIGNA MANUS."

