Every time the train stopped, and he heard the banging, stamping, and shouting, his heart seemed
to jump up into his mouth. When the people came to lift the stove out, would they find him?
and if they did find him, would they kill him? The thought, too, of Hilda, kept tugging at
his heart now and then, but he said to himself, "If I can take Hirschvogel back to her, how
pleased she will be, and how she will clap her hands!" He was not at all selfish in his love
for Hirschvogel; he wanted it for them at home quite as much as for himself. That was what
he kept thinking of all the way in the darkness and stillness which lasted so long. At last
the train stopped, and awoke him from a half sleep. Karl felt the stove lifted by some men,
who carried it to a cart, and then they started again on the journey, up hill and down, for
what seemed miles and miles. Where they were going Karl had no idea. Finally the cart stopped;
then it seemed as though they were carrying the stove up some stairs. The men rested sometimes,
and then moved on again, and their feet went so softly he thought they must be walking on thick
carpets. By and by the stove was set down again, happily for Karl, for he felt as though he
should scream, or do something to make known that he was there. Then the wrappings were taken
off, and he heard a voice say, "What a beautiful, beautiful stove!"

Next some one turned the round handle of the brass door, and poor little Karl's heart stood still.

"What is this?" said the man. "A live child!"

Then Karl sprang out of the stove and fell at the feet of the man who had spoken.

"Oh, let me stay, please let me stay!" he said. "I have come all the way with my darling Hirschvogel!"

The man answered kindly, "Poor little child! tell me how you came to hide in the stove. Do
not be afraid. I am the king."

Karl was too much in earnest to be afraid; he was so glad, so glad it was the king, for kings
must be always kind, he thought.

"Oh, dear king!" he said with a trembling voice, "Hirschvogel was ours, and we have loved it
all our lives, and father sold it, and when I saw that it really did go from us I said to myself
that I would go with it; and I do beg you to let me live with it, and I will go out every morning
and cut wood for it and for all your other stoves, if only you will let me stay beside it.
No one has ever fed it with wood but me since I grew big enough, and it loves me; it does indeed!"
And then he lifted up his little pale face to the young king, who saw that great tears were
running down his cheeks.

"Can't I stay with Hirschvogel?" he pleaded.

"Wait a little," said the king. "What do you want to be when you are a man? Do you want to
be a wood-chopper?"

"I want to be a painter," cried Karl. "I want to be what Hirschvogel was. I mean the potter
that made my Hirschvogel."

"I understand," answered the king, and he looked down at the child, and smiled. "Get up, my
little man," he said in a kind voice; "I will let you stay with your Hirschvogel. You shall
stay here, and you shall be taught to be a painter, but you must grow up very good, and when
you are twenty-one years old, if you have done well, then I will give you back your beautiful
stove." Then he smiled again and stretched out his hand. Karl threw his two arms about the
king's knees and kissed his feet, and then all at once he was so tired and so glad and hungry
and happy, that he fainted quite away on the floor.

Then the king had a letter written to Karl's father, telling him that Karl had drawn him some
beautiful charcoal pictures, and that he liked them so much he was going to take care of him
until he was old enough to paint wonderful stoves like Hirschvogel. And he did take care of
him for a long time, and when Karl grew older, he often went for a few days to his old home,
where his father still lives.

In the little brown house stands Hirschvogel, tall and splendid, with its peacock colors as
beautiful as ever,--the king's present to Hilda; and Karl never goes home without going into
the great church and giving his thanks to God, who blessed his strange winter's journey in
the great porcelain stove.

THE BABES IN THE WOOD

"Nature and life speak very early to man."--FROEBEL.

A great many years ago three little girls lived in an old-fashioned house in the East. They
had a very lovely home, and a kind father and mother, who tried to make them happy. All through
the summer they used to roam over the hills and fields, catching butterflies, watching the
birds and bees at work, and studying the flowers and trees in the beautiful meadows and woods.
Then when winter came, and the days grew cold, they went to school; and in the evening, when
the fire was burning brightly, they read and studied in books about all they had seen in the
summer.

Besides all these lovely things, and perhaps best of all, they had a very large yard to play
in, so large that it took up a whole block, and seemed like a little farm in the middle of
the town. There was a lovely lawn and flower beds; a vegetable garden, barnyard and stable;
and an orchard where all kinds of fruit trees grew, apple, peach, pear, and many others. A
cow lived down in the meadows of clover, and old Bob, the horse, was sometimes turned out to
pasture there. But nicest of all, there was the wood yard. You must remember that every winter,
where these little girls lived, the snow fell, and lay so deep on the roads that no one could
bring in wood from the forest, and without it all the people would have frozen in their cold homes.

So every September the gates were thrown wide open, and into the yard load after load of wood
was drawn and piled up under the shed. Then, when it was too cold to play out on the hills,
the little girls used to have a fine time in the yard, piling up the wood, making beds, tables,
chairs, and stoves of the sticks that had once been the waving branches and strong, sturdy
trunks of trees.

Toward spring they often found a strange yellow powder on the ground under the wood. At first
they played with it, calling it flour, and made pies and cakes out of it. But at last they
began to wonder where the flour came from, and after watching and studying a long time this
is what they found out.

But first I must tell you that all the time the three little girls were happy and busy in this
beautiful place, they were not the only family there. There were the robins' children, whose
mammas were trying to make them good and happy too. There were the beetles' children, the ants'
children, and families of toads, butterflies, and spiders. And while the three little girls
were playing with the sticks of wood, there lay, tucked snugly away inside of them, many families
of children, warm and safe in their wooden home.

Now I want the smallest of you little children to hold up her hand. How small it is compared
with your body! Now let us see the little finger on that hand,--it is smaller still; and now
look at the nail on that finger: the brothers and sisters of one of these families were altogether
about as large as that tiny nail. Their mamma was a wasp, with light, gauzy wings and a strong
body with a long sting on the end of it, about the length of a needle. With this little sting
or saw, as it really was, she had bored many holes in the wood when it was still a green tree,
and at the bottom of each hole she had laid a tiny egg. There it lay for a long time, all white
and still, until one day it cracked open, and out came a funny little white grub, with six
short white feet, and black jaws very strong and large for such a tiny thing. This little creature
had never had anything to eat, and as it was very hungry indeed, it fell to eating--what do
you think? Wood-- its own house! You wouldn't like a stick of wood for your breakfast, I know,
but the wasp-mamma knew what her little grub-children would want, so she put them in just the
right place; for they couldn't have eaten anything else. And the hungry little grubs ate and
ate and ate as long as they could, pushing away from the hole the part they did not want, and
this fell upon the ground as the strange yellow powder the children found in the wood-yard,
every spring.

And so, while the little girls were placing away in the sunshine the little grubs were eating
away in the wood, until at last, one day, they grew satisfied, and one after another went to
sleep. There they lay in their dark homes, fast asleep, through long weeks, while the snow
was melting and the grass coming up, and the birds and bees beginning their summer work again;
until one day these lazy little creatures, that had never done anything in their lives but
eat and sleep, woke up and began to stretch themselves. But what had happened to them? Instead
of the soft white bodies they had gone to sleep with, they now had black ones and four gauzy
wings; while six slender legs had taken the place of the six short ones. There were still the
strong black jaws to do all needful work with, and in addition, delicate mouth-parts, for their
food was now to be the honey from flowers. In fact, they looked and were just like their mamma,
the gauzy wasp. One after another they crept to the end of the passage that led from their
dark homes to the bright world without. They stood one minute at the little dark hole, and
then, spreading their wings, flitted out into the beautiful world of sunshine and flowers.

THE FIRST THANKSGIVING DAY.

"The story brings forward other people, other relations, other times and places, other and
even quite different forms; notwithstanding this fact, the auditor seeks his image there."--FROEBEL,

Nearly three hundred years ago, a great many of the people in England were very unhappy because
their king would not let them pray to God as they liked. The king said they must use the same
prayers that he did; and if they would not do this, they were often thrown into prison, or
perhaps driven away from home.

"Let us go away from this country," said the unhappy Englishmen to each other; and so they
left their homes, and went far off to a country called Holland. It was about this time that
they began to call themselves "Pilgrims." Pilgrims, you know, are people who are always traveling
to find something they love, or to find a land where they can be happier; and these English
men and women were journeying, they said, "from place to place, toward heaven, their dearest
country."

In Holland, the Pilgrims were quiet and happy for a while, but they were very poor; and when
the children began to grow up, they were not like English children, but talked Dutch, like
the little ones of Holland, and some grew naughty and did not want to go to church any more.

"This will never do," said the Pilgrim fathers and mothers; so after much talking and thinking
and writing they made up their minds to come here to America. They hired two vessels, called
the Mayflower and the Speedwell, to take them across the sea; but the Speedwell was not a strong
ship, and the captain had to take her home again before she had gone very far.

The Mayflower went back, too. Part of the Speedwell's passengers were given to her, and then
she started alone across the great ocean.

There were one hundred people on board,--mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters and little
children. They were very crowded; it was cold and uncomfortable; the sea was rough, and pitched
the Mayflower about, and they were two months sailing over the water.

The children cried many times on the journey, and wished they had never come on the tiresome
ship that rocked them so hard, and would not let them keep still a minute.

But they had one pretty plaything to amuse them, for in the middle of the great ocean a Pilgrim
baby was born, and they called him "Oceanus," for his birthplace. When the children grew so
tired that they were cross and fretful, Oceanus' mother let them come and play with him, and
that always brought smiles and happy faces back again.

At last the Mayflower came in sight of land; but if the children had been thinking of grass
and flowers and birds, they must have been very much disappointed, for the month was cold November,
and there was nothing to be seen but rocks and sand and hard bare ground.

Some of the Pilgrim fathers, with brave Captain Myles Standish at their head, went on shore
to see if they could find any houses or white people. But they only saw some wild Indians,
who ran away from them, and found some Indian huts and some corn buried in holes in the ground.
They went to and fro from the ship three times, till by and by they found a pretty place to
live, where there were "fields and little running brooks."

Then at last all the tired Pilgrims landed from the ship on a spot now called Plymouth Rock,
and the first house was begun on Christmas Day. But when I tell you how sick they were and
how much they suffered that first winter, you will be very sad and sorry for them. The weather
was cold, the snow fell fast and thick, the wind was icy, and the Pilgrim fathers had no one
to help them cut down the trees and build their church and their houses.

The Pilgrim mothers helped all they could; but they were tired with the long journey, and cold,
and hungry too, for no one had the right kind of food to eat, nor even enough of it.

So first one was taken sick, and then another, till half of them were in bed at the same time,
Brave Myles Standish and the other soldiers nursed them as well as they knew how; but before
spring came half of the people died and had gone at last to "heaven, their dearest country."

But by and by the sun shone more brightly, the snow melted, the leaves began to grow, and sweet
spring had come again.

Some friendly Indians had visited the Pilgrims during the winter, and Captain Myles Standish,
with several of his men, had returned the visit.

One of the kind Indians was called Squanto, and he came to stay with the Pilgrims, and showed
them how to plant their corn, and their pease and wheat and barley.

When the summer came and the days were long and bright, the Pilgrim children were very happy,
and they thought Plymouth a lovely place indeed. All kinds of beautiful wild flowers grew at
their doors, there were hundreds of birds and butterflies, and the great pine woods were always
cool and shady when the sun was too bright.

When it was autumn the fathers gathered the barley and wheat and corn that they had planted,
and found that it had grown so well that they would have quite enough for the long winter that
was coming.

"Let us thank God for it all," they said. "It is He who has made the sun shine and the rain
fall and the corn grow." So they thanked God in their homes and in their little church; the
fathers and the mothers and the children thanked Him.

"Then," said the Pilgrim mothers, "let us have a great Thanksgiving party, and invite the friendly
Indians, and all rejoice together."

So they had the first Thanksgiving party, and a grand one it was! Four men went out shooting
one whole day, and brought back so many wild ducks and geese and great wild turkeys that there
was enough for almost a week. There was deer meat also, of course, for there were plenty of
fine deer in the forest. Then the Pilgrim mothers made the corn and wheat into bread and cakes,
and they had fish and clams from the sea besides.

The friendly Indians all came with their chief Massasoit. Every one came that was invited,
and more, I dare say, for there were ninety of them altogether.

They brought five deer with them, that they gave to the Pilgrims; and they must have liked
the party very much, for they stayed three days.

Kind as the Indians were, you would have been very much frightened if you had seen them; and
the baby Oceanus, who was a year old then, began to cry at first whenever they came near him.

They were dressed in deerskins, and some of them had the furry coat of a wild cat hanging on
their arms. Their long black hair fell loose on their shoulders, and was trimmed with feathers
or fox-tails. They had their faces painted in all kinds of strange ways, some with black stripes
as broad as your finger all up and down them. But whatever they wore, it was their very best,
and they had put it on for the Thanksgiving party.

Each meal, before they ate anything, the Pilgrims and the Indians thanked God together for
all his goodness. The Indians sang and danced in the evenings, and every day they ran races
and played all kinds of games with the children.

Then sometimes the Pilgrims with their guns, and the Indians with their bows and arrows, would
see who could shoot farthest and best. So they were glad and merry and thankful for three whole
days.

The Pilgrim mothers and fathers had been sick and sad many times since they landed from the
Mayflower; they had worked very hard, often had not had enough to eat, and were mournful indeed
when their friends died and left them. But now they tried to forget all this, and think only
of how good God had been to them; and so they all were happy together at the first Thanksgiving
party.

All this happened nearly three hundred years ago, and ever since that time Thanksgiving has
been kept in our country.

Every year our fathers and grandfathers and great-grandfathers have "rejoiced together" like
the Pilgrims, and have had something to be thankful for each time.

Every year some father has told the story of the brave Pilgrims to his little sons and daughters,
and has taught them to be very glad and proud that the Mayflower came sailing to our country
so many years ago.

LITTLE GEORGE WASHINGTON.

PART I.

"The child takes each story as a conquest, grasps each as a treasure, and inserts into his
own life, for his own advancement and instruction, what each story teaches and shows."--Froebel.

Every one of my little children has seen a picture of George Washington, I am sure.

Perhaps you may remember his likeness on a prancing white horse, holding his cocked hat in
his hand, and bowing low to the people, or his picture as a general at the head of his armies,
with a sword by his side and high boots reaching to the knee; sometimes you have seen him in
a boat crossing the Delaware River, wrapped in his heavy soldier's cloak; and again as a President,
with powdered hair, lace ruffles, and velvet coat.

Of course all these are pictures of a strong, handsome, grown-up man, and I suppose you never
happened to think that George Washington was once a little boy.

But ever so long ago he was as small as you are now, and I am going to tell you about his father
and mother, his home and his little-boy days.

He was born one hundred and sixty years ago in Virginia, near a great river called the Potomac.
His father's name was Augustine, his mother's Mary, and he had several brothers and a little
sister.

They all lived in the country on a farm, or a plantation, as they call it in Virginia. The
Washington house stood in the middle of green tobacco fields and flowery meadows, and there
were so many barns and storehouses and sheds round about it that they made quite a village
of themselves. The nearest neighbors lived miles away; there were no railroads nor stages,
and if you wanted to travel, you must ride on horseback through the thick woods, or you might
sail in little boats up and down the rivers.

City boys and girls might think, perhaps, that little George Washington was very lonely on
the great plantation, with no neighbor- boys to play with; but you must remember that the horses
and cattle and sheep and dogs on a farm make the dearest of playmates, and that there are all
kinds of pleasant things to do in the country that city boys know nothing about.

Little George played out of doors all the time and grew very strong. He went fishing and swimming
in the great river, he ran races and jumped fences with his brothers and the dogs, he threw
stones across the brooks, and when he grew a larger boy he even learned to shoot.

He had a pretty pony, too, named "Hero," that he loved very much, and that he used to ride
all about the plantation.

Some of the letters have been kept that he wrote when he was a little boy, and he talks in
them about his pony, and his books with pictures of elephants, and the new top he is going
to have soon.

Think of that great General Washington on a white horse once playing with a little humming
top like yours!

Many things are told about Washington when he was little; but he lived so long ago that we
cannot tell very well whether they ever happened or not. One story is that his father took
him out into the garden on a spring morning, and drew the letters of his name with a cane in
the soft earth. Then he filled the letters with seed, and told little George to wait a week
or two and see what would happen. You can all guess what did happen, and can think how pleased
the little boy was when he found his name all growing in fresh green leaves.

Then another story, I'm sure you've all heard, is about the cherry- tree and the hatchet.

Little George's father gave him one day, so they say, a nice, bright, sharp little hatchet.
Of course he went around the barns and the sheds, trying everything and seeing how well he
could cut, and at last he went into the orchard. There he saw a young cherry-tree, as straight
as a soldier, with the most beautiful, smooth, shining bark, waving its boughs in a very provoking
way, as if to say, "You can't cut me down, and you needn't try."

Little George did try and he did cut it down, and then was very sorry, for he found it was
not so easy to set it up again.

His father was angry, of course, for he lived in a new country, and three thousand miles from
any place where he could get good fruit trees; but when the little boy told the truth about
it, his father said he would rather lose a thousand cherry-trees than have his son tell a lie.

Now perhaps this never happened; but if George Washington ever did cut down a cherry-tree,
you may be sure he told the truth about it.

I think, though he grew to be such a wise, wonderful man, that he must have been just a bright,
happy boy like you, when he was little.

But everybody knows three things about him,--that he always told the truth, that he never was
afraid of anything, and that he always loved and minded his mother.

When little George was eleven years old, his good father died, and his poor mother was left
alone to take care of her boys and her great plantation. What a busy mother she was! She mended
and sewed, she taught some of her children, she took care of the sick people, she spun wool
and knitted stockings and gloves; but every day she found time to gather her children around
her and read good books to them, and talk to them about being good children.

So riding his pony, and helping his mother, and learning his lessons, George grew to be a tall boy.

When he was fourteen years old, he made up his mind that he would like to be a sailor, and
travel far away over the blue water in a great ship. His elder brother said that he might do
so. The right ship was found; his clothes were packed and carried on board, when all at once
his mother said he must not go. She had thought about it; he was too young to go away, and
she wanted her boy to stay with her.

Of course George was greatly disappointed, but he stayed at home, and worked and studied hard.
He wanted very much to learn how to earn money and help his mother, and so he studied to be
a surveyor.

Surveyors measure the land, you know. They measure people's gardens and house-lots and farms,
and can tell just where to put the fences, and how much land belongs to you and how much to
me, so that we need never quarrel about it.

To be a good surveyor you have to be very careful indeed, and make no mistakes; and George
Washington was careful and always tried to do his best, so that his surveys were the finest
that could be made.

When he was only sixteen, he went off into the great forest, where no one lived but the Indians,
to measure some land for a friend of his. The weather was cold; he slept in a tent at night,
or out of doors, on a bearskin by the fire, and he had to work very hard. He met a great many
Indians, and learned to know their ways in fighting and how to manage them.

Three years he worked hard at surveying, and at last he was a grown-up man!

He was tall and splendid then, over six feet high, and as straight as an Indian, with a rosy
face and bright blue eyes. He had large hands and fingers, and was wonderfully strong. People
say that his great tent, which it took three men to carry, Washington could lift with one hand
and throw into the wagon.

He was very brave, too, you remember. He could shoot well, and almost never missed his aim;
he was used to walking many miles when he was surveying, and he could ride any horse he liked,
no matter how wild and fierce.

So you see, when a man is strong, when he can shoot well, and walk and ride great distances,
when he is never afraid of anything, that is just the man for a soldier; and I will tell you
soon how George Washington came to be a great soldier.

GREAT GEORGE WASHINGTON.

PART II.

"The good story-teller effects much; he has an ennobling effect upon children,--so much the
more ennobling that he does not appear to intend it,"--FROEBEL.

All this time while George Washington had been growing up,--first a little boy, then a larger
boy, and then a young surveyor,--all this time the French and English and Indians were unhappy
and uncomfortable in the country north of Virginia. The French wanted all the land, so did
the English, and the Indians saw that there would be no room for them, whichever had it, so
they all began to trouble each other and to quarrel and fight.

These troubles grew so bad at last that the Virginians began to be afraid of the French and
Indians, and thought they must have some soldiers of their own ready to fight.

George Washington was only nineteen then, but everybody knew he was wise and brave, so they
chose him to teach the soldiers near his home how to march and to fight.

Then the king and the people of England grew very uneasy at all this quarreling, and they sent
over soldiers and cannon and powder, and commenced to get ready to fight in earnest. Washington
was made a major, and he had to go a thousand miles, in the middle of winter, into the Indian
and French country, to see the chiefs and the soldiers, and find out about the troubles.

When he came back again, all the people were so pleased with his courage and with the wise
way in which he had behaved, that they made him lieutenant-colonel.

Then began a long war between the French and the English, which lasted seven years. Washington
fought through all of it, and was made a colonel, and by and by commander of all the soldiers
in Virginia. He built forts and roads, he gained and lost battles, he fought the Indians and
the French; and by all this trouble and hard work he learned to be a great soldier.

In many of the battles of this war, Washington and the Virginians did not wear a uniform like
the English soldiers, but a buckskin shirt and fringed leggings like the Indians.

From beginning to end of some of the battles, Washington rode about among the men, telling
them where to go and how to fight; the bullets were whistling around him all the time, but
he said he liked the music.

By and by the war was over; the French were driven back to their own part of the country, and
Washington went home to Mt. Vernon to rest, and took with him his wife, lovely Martha Washington,
whom he had met and married while he was fighting the French and Indians.

While he was at Mt. Vernon he saw all his horses again,--"Valiant" and "Magnolia" and "Chinkling"
and "Ajax,"--and had grand gallops over the country.

He had some fine dogs, too, to run by his side, and help him hunt the bushy-tailed foxes. "Vulcan"
and "Bingwood" and "Music" and "Sweetlips" were the names of some of them. You may be sure
the dogs were glad when they had their master home again.

But Washington did not have long to rest, for another war was coming, the great war of the
Revolution.

Little children cannot understand all the reasons for this war, but I can tell you some of them.

You remember in the story of Thanksgiving I told you about the Pilgrim fathers, who came from
England to this country because their king would not let them pray to God as they liked. That
king was dead now, and there was another in his place, a king with the name of George, like
our Washington.

Now our great-grandfathers had always loved England and Englishmen, because many of their friends
were still living there, and because it was their old home.

The king gave them governors to help take care of their people, and soldiers to fight for them,
and they sent to England for many things to wear and to eat.

But just before this Revolutionary War, the king and the great men who helped him began to
say that things should be done in this country that our people did not think right at all.
The king said they must buy expensive stamps to put on all their newspapers and almanacs and
lawyer's papers, and that they must pay very high taxes on their tea and paper and glass, and
he sent soldiers to see that this was done.

This made our great-grandfathers very angry. They refused to pay the taxes, they would not
buy anything from England any more, and some men even went on board the ships, as they came
into Boston Harbor, and threw the tea over into the water.

So fifty-one men were chosen from all over the country, and they met at Philadelphia, to see
what could be done. Washington was sent from Virginia. And after they had talked very solemnly,
they all thought there would be great trouble soon, and Washington went home to drill the soldiers.

Then the war began with the battle of Lexington, in New England, and soon Washington was made
commander in chief of the armies.

He rode the whole distance from Philadelphia to Boston on horseback, with a troop of officers;
and all the people on the way came to see him, bringing bands of music and cheering him as
he went by. He rode into camp in the morning. The soldiers were drawn up in the road, and men
and women and children who had come to look at Washington were crowded all about. They saw
a tall, splendid, handsome man in a blue coat with buff facings, and epaulets on his shoulders.
As he took off his hat, drew his shining sword and raised it in sight of all the people, the
cannon began to thunder, and all the people hurrahed and tossed their hats in the air.

Of course he looked very splendid, and they all knew how brave he was, and thought he would
soon put an end to the war.

But it did not happen as they expected, for this was only the beginning, and the war lasted
seven long years.

Fighting is always hard, even if you have plenty of soldiers and plenty for them to eat; but
Washington had very few soldiers, and very little powder for the guns, and little food for
the men to eat.

The soldiers were not in uniform, as ours are to-day; but each was dressed just as he happened
to come from his shop or his farm.

Washington ordered hunting shirts for them, such as he wore when he went to fight the Indians,
for he knew they would look more like soldiers if all were dressed alike.

Of course many people thought that our men would be beaten, as the war went on; but Washington
never thought so, for he was sure our side was right.

I hardly know what he would have done, at last, if the French people had not promised to come
over and help us, and to send us money and men and ships. All the people in the army thanked
God when they heard it, and fired their guns for joy.

A brave young man named Lafayette came with the French soldiers, and he grew to be Washington's
great friend, and fought for us all through the Revolution.

Many battles were fought in this war, and Washington lost some of them, and a great many of
his men were killed.

You could hardly understand how much trouble he had. In the winter, when the snow was deep
on the ground, he had no houses or huts for his men to sleep in; his soldiers were ragged and
cold by day, and had not blankets enough to keep them warm by night; their shoes were old and
worn, and they had to wrap cloths around their feet to keep them from freezing.

When they marched to the Delaware River, one cold Christmas night, a soldier who was sent after
them, with a message for Washington, traced them by their footprints on the snow, all reddened
with the blood from their poor cut feet.

They must have been very brave and patient to have fought at all, when they were so cold and
ragged and hungry.

Washington suffered a great deal in seeing his soldiers so wretched, and I am sure that, with
all his strength and courage, he would sometimes have given up hope, if he had not talked and
prayed to God a great deal, and asked Him to help him.

In one of the hardest times of the whole war, Washington was staying at a farmer's house. One
morning, he rode out very early to visit the soldiers. The farmer went into the fields soon
after, and as he was passing a brook where a great many bushes were growing, he heard a deep
voice from the thicket. He looked through the leaves, and saw Washington on his knees, on the
ground, praying to God for his soldiers. He had fastened his horse to a tree, and come away
by himself to ask God to help them.

At last the war came to an end; the English were beaten, and our armies sent up praise and
thanks to God.

Then the soldiers went quietly back to their homes, and Washington bade all his officers good-by,
and thanked them for their help and their courage.

The little room in New York where he said farewell is kept to show to visitors now, and you
can see it some day yourselves.

Then Washington went home to Mt. Vernon to rest; but before he had been there long, the people
found out that they must have some one to help take care of them, as they had nothing to do
with the king of England any more; and they asked Washington to come and be the first President
of the United States.

So he did as they wished, and was as wise and good, and as careful and fine a President as
he had been surveyor, soldier, and general.

You know we always call Washington the Father of his Country, because he did so much for us
and helped to make the United States so great.

After he died, there were parks and mountains and villages and towns and cities named for him
all over the land, because people loved him so and prized so highly what he had done for them.

In the city of Washington there is a building where you can see many of the things that belonged
to the first President, when he was alive. There is his soldier's coat, his sword, and in an
old camp chest are the plates and knives and forks that he used in the Revolution.

There is a tall, splendid monument of shining gray stone in that city, that towers far, far
above all the highest roofs and spires. It was built in memory of George Washington, by the
people of the United States, to show that they loved and would always remember the Father of
his Country.

THE MAPLE-LEAF AND THE VIOLET.

"Story-telling must please children, so that it will influence, strengthen, and elevate their
lives."--FROEBEL

The Maple-tree lived on the edge of the wood. Beside and behind her the trees grew so thick
and tall that there was plenty of shade at her roots; but as no one stood in front, she could
always look across the meadows to the brown house where Bessie lived, and could see what went
on in the world.

After the cold winter had gone by, and the spring had come again, the Maple-tree sent out thousands
of tiny leaf-buds, that stretched themselves, and grew larger day by day in the warm sunshine.
One little Bud, on the end of a tall branch, worked so hard to grow that by and by he finished
opening all his folds, and found himself a tiny pale green leaf.

He was curious, as little folks generally are, and as soon as he opened his eyes wanted to
see everything about him. First he looked up at the blue sky overhead, but the sky only looked
quietly back at him. Then he looked across the meadows to where Bessie lived, but Bessie was
at school and the house was still.

Then he gazed far down below him on the ground; and there, just beneath, was a little Violet,
She had uncurled her purple petals a few days before, and was waiting to welcome the first
leaf-bud that came out.

So when the Maple-leaf looked down, she smiled up at him and said, "Good-morning." He answered
her politely, but he was very little, and did not know quite what to say, so he didn't talk
any more that day.

The next morning they greeted each other again, and soon they grew to be good friends, and
talked together very happily all day. The Maple- leaf lived so high up in the tree that he
could easily see across the fields, and he watched every day for Bessie as she started for
school. When she came out of her door, he told the Violet, and the Violet always said every
morning, "Dear Bessie! I should like to see her, too!"

Sometimes, when the day was chilly and it was almost too damp in the shade, the Violet used
to wish she might be high up on the branch above her, waving about in the sunshine like the
Maple-leaf; but she was a contented little thing, and never fretted long for what she could
not have.

It was generally pleasant on the ground, and the bugs and caterpillars and worms, as they crawled
about at her roots, often told her very interesting things about their families and their troubles.

One day it was very dry and warm. The Maple-leaf was not at all comfortable, high in the hot
air, and he said to his mother, "Mother- tree, won't you let me go down by the Violet and be cool?"

Then the Maple-tree answered, "No, no, little leaf, not now; if I once let you go, you can
never come back again. Stay quietly here; the time will soon come for you to leave me."

The Maple-leaf told this to the Violet, and then they began to fear that when the mother-tree
let him go, by and by, he might not be able to fall close beside the Violet.

So the next day, when the wind came whistling along, the Violet asked him if he would kindly
take care of the leaf, and send him to her when the mother-tree let him go. The wind was rough
and careless, and said he really didn't know. He couldn't be sure how he'd feel then. They
would have to wait and see.

