My parents left me no fortune, and I fell to the care of my father's only brother, a man of
wealth and standing. I have no story to tell of the bitterness of dependence,--of slights,
and insult, and privation. My uncle had married, somewhat late in life, a young and gentle
woman; when I was twelve years old she became the mother of twins,--two lovely little girls.
No one, unacquainted with the family history, could have supposed that I was other than the
elder sister of Florence and Leonora. Every indulgence was granted me, every advantage of dress
and education bestowed upon me. So far as even I could see, my uncle and aunt regarded me as
their own child. Nor was I ungrateful, but repaid them with a filial reverence and affection.

I did not inherit the fulness of my mother's beauty, but had yet some traits of her,--the pale,
clear skin, the large, black eyes, the glossy and abundant hair. Here the resemblance ceased.
I have heard my uncle say,--how often!--"Your mother, Juanita, had the most perfect form I
ever saw, except in marble"; all Spanish women, indeed, he told me, had a full, elastic roundness
of shape and limb, rarely seen among our spare and loose-built nation. I was American in form,
at least,--slight and stooping, with a certain awkwardness, partly to be imputed to my rapid
growth, partly to my shyness and reserve. I was insatiably fond of reading, little attracted
toward society. When my uncle's house, as often happened, was full of gay company, I withdrew
to my own room, and read my favorite authors in its pleasant solitude. I was ill at ease with
lively, fashionable people,--very much at home with books. Thanks to my uncle's care, I was
well educated, even scholarly, for my age and sex. My studious habits, far from being discouraged,
were praised by all the household, and I was looked upon as a prodigy of cleverness and industry.

A widow lady, of the name of Haughton, came to live in the little cottage near us when I was
fifteen years old. She was well-born, but poor, and had known many sorrows. My aunt, Mrs. Heywood,
soon became interested in her, and took pleasure in offering her those numerous attentions
which a wealthy neighbor can so easily bestow, and which are so grateful to the recipient.
Mrs. Haughton and her sons were frequent guests at our house; and we, too, spent many pleasant
hours in the vine-covered porch of the cottage. I had few companions, and John and William
Haughton were very welcome to me. They were somewhat older than I,--John twenty-two, and William
two years younger; and I was thus just able to escape regarding them with that profound contempt
which the girl of fifteen usually feels for "boys." After knowing them awhile I felt how baseless
such contempt would be; for they possessed a depth and maturity of character rarely seen except
in men of much experience. John was grave and thoughtful; his livelier brother often said he
had come into the world some centuries too late,--that he was meant for an Augustine or a Pascal,
so studious was he, and so saintly. Do not fancy that he was one of those stiff, bespectacled,
pedantic youths who cannot open their lips without a classic allusion or a Greek quotation;
nothing could be farther from the truth. He was quiet and retiring; very few guessed how beneath
that exterior, so unassuming, lay hid the noblest aspirations, the most exalted thought. It
was John I should have loved.

But it was William who won my heart, even without an effort. I, the pale, serious girl, loved
with a wild idolatry the gay and careless youth. Never, from that day till now, have I seen
a man so perfect in all manly beauty. Strength and symmetry were united in his tall, athletic
figure; his features were large, but nobly formed; his hair, of a sunny hue, fell in rich masses
over a broad, white brow. So might Apollo have looked in the flush of his immortal youth.

At first I gazed at him only with the enthusiasm which his extreme beauty might well awaken
in the heart of a romantic maiden; then I grew to see in the princely type of that beauty a
reflection of his mind. Did ever any fond fool so dote upon her Ideal as I on mine? All generous
thoughts, all noble deeds, seemed only the fit expression of his nature. Then I came to mingle
a reverence with my admiration. We were friends; he talked to me much of his plans in life,--of
the future that lay before him. What an ambitious spirit burned within him!--a godlike ambition
I thought it then. And how my weak, womanish heart thrilled with sympathy to his! With what
pride I listened to his words! with what fervor I joined in his longings!

There came a time when I trembled before him. I could no longer walk calmly arm-in-arm with
him under the linden-trees, hearkening joyfully. I dared not lift my eyes to his face; I turned
pale with suppressed feeling, if he but spoke my name--Juanita--or took my hand in his for
friendly greeting. What a hand it was!--so white, and soft, and shapely, yet so powerful! It
was the right hand for him,--a fair and delicate seeming, a cruel, hidden strength. When he
spoke of the future my heart cried out against it; it was intolerable to me. In its bright
triumphs I could have no part; thereto I could follow him only with my love and tears. The
present alone was mine, and to that I passionately clung. For I never dreamed, you see, that
he could love me.

My manner toward him changed; I was fitful and capricious. I dreaded, above all things, that
he should suspect my feelings. Sometimes I met him coldly; sometimes I received his confidences
with an indifferent and weary air. This could not last.

One night--it was a little time before he left us--he begged me to walk with him once more
under the lindens. I made many excuses, but he overruled them all. We left the brilliantly-lighted
rooms and stood beneath the solemn shadow of the trees. It was a warm, soft night; the harvest
moon shone down upon us; a south wind moaned among the branches. We walked silently on till
we reached a rustic seat, formed of gnarled boughs fantastically bound together; here he made
me sit down and placed himself beside me.

"Juanita," he said, in a tone so soft, so thrillingly musical, that I shall never forget it,
"what has come between us? Are you no longer my friend?"

I tried to answer him, and could not; love and grief choked my utterance.

"Look at me," he said.

I looked. The moon shone full on his face; his eyes were bent on mine. What a serpent-charm
lurked in their treacherous blue depths! If, looking at me thus, he had bidden me kill myself
at his feet, I must have done it.

"Juanita," he said, with a smile of conscious power, "you love me! But why should that destroy
our happiness?"

He held out his arms; I threw myself on his bosom in an agony of shame and joy. Oh, Heaven!
could it be possible that he loved me at last?

Long, long, we sat there in the moonlight, his arms around me, my hand clasped in his. Poor
hand! even by that faint radiance how dark and thin it looked beside his, so white and rounded!
How gloriously beautiful was he! what a poor, pale shadow I! And yet he loved me! He did not
talk much of it; he spoke more of the future,--our future. It all lay before him, a bright,
enchanted land, wherein we two should walk together. We had not quite reached it, but we surely
should, and that ere long.

The steps toward it were prosaic enough, save as his imagination brightened them. An early
friend of his dead father, a distinguished lawyer, wishing to further William's advancement
in life, gave him the opportunity of studying his profession with him,--offering him, at the
same time, a home in his own family. From these slender materials William's fancy built air-castles
the most magnificent. He would study assiduously; with such a prize in view, he fondly said,
his patience would never weary. He felt within himself the consciousness of talent; and talent
and industry must succeed. A bright career was before him,--fame, fortune; and all were to
be laid at my feet; all would be valueless, if not shared with me.

"Ah, William," I asked, with a moment's sorrowful doubt, "are you sure of that? Are you certain
that it is not fame you look forward so eagerly to possess, instead of me?"

"How dare you say such a thing?" he answered, sternly. I did not mind the sternness; there
was love behind it.

"And what am I to do while you are thus winning gold and glory?" I asked, at length.

"I will tell you, Juanita. In the first place, you are not to waste your time and spirits in
long, romantic reveries, and vain pining because we cannot be together."

"Indeed, I will not!" was my quick reply, though I colored deeply. I was ashamed that he thought
me in danger of loving him too well. "I know you think me foolish and sentimental; but I assure
you I will try to be different, since you wish it."

"That is my own dear girl! You must go out,--you must see people,--you must enjoy yourself.
You must study, too; don't let your mind rust because you are engaged. It will be quite time
enough for that when we are married."

"You need not be afraid; I shall always wish to please you, William, and so I shall always
endeavor to improve."

"Good child!" he said, laughing. "But you will not always be such an obedient infant, Juanita.
You will find out your power over me, and then you will want to exercise it, just for the pleasure
of seeing me submit. You will be despotic about the veriest trifles, only to show me that my
will must bow to yours."

"That will never be! I have no will of my own, where you are concerned, William. I only ask
to know your wishes, that I may perform them."

"Is that indeed so?" he said, with a new tenderness of manner. "I am very glad; for, to tell
the truth, my love, I fear I should have little patience with womanish caprices. I have reasons
always for what I do and for what I require, and I could not long love any one who opposed them."

Again I assured him that he need feel no such dread. How happy we were!--yes, I believe he
loved me enough then to be happy, even as I was.

It was so late before we thought of going in, that a messenger was sent to seek us, and many
a fine jest we had to encounter when we reached the drawing-room.

The next day, William spoke to my uncle, who seemed to regard the matter in a light very different
from ours. He said, we were a mere boy and girl, that years must elapse before we could marry,
and by that time we should very probably have outgrown our liking for each other; still, if
we chose, we might consider ourselves engaged; he did not know that he had any objection to
make. This manner of treating the subject was not a flattering one; however, we had his consent,--and
that was the main point, after all.

So we were troth-plight; and William went forth on his career of labor and success, and I remained
at home, loving him, living for him, striving to make my every act what he would have it. I
went into company as he had bidden me; I studied and improved myself; I grew handsomer, too.
All who saw me noticed and approved the alteration in my appearance. I was no longer awkward
and stooping; my manner had acquired something of ease and gracefulness; a faint bloom tinged
my cheek and made my dark eyes brighter. I was truly happy in the change; it seemed to render
me a little more suited to him, who was so proudly, so splendidly handsome.

I remembered what he had said too well to spend much time in love-dreams; but my happiest moments
were when I was alone, and could think of him, read his letters, look at his picture, and fancy
the joyfulness of his return.

His letters!--there the change first showed itself. At first they were all, and more than all,
I could wish. I blushed to read the ardent words, as I did when he had spoken them. But by-and-by
there was a different tone: I could not describe it; there was nothing to complain of; and
yet I felt--so surely!--that something was wrong. I never thought of blaming him; I dreaded
lest I had in some way wounded his affection or his pride. I asked no explanation; I thought
to do so might annoy or vex him, for his was a peculiar nature. I only wrote to him the more
fondly,--strove more and more to show him how my whole heart was his. But the change grew plainer
as months passed on; and some weeks before the time appointed for his return, the letters ceased
altogether.

This conduct grieved me, certainly, yet I was more perplexed than unhappy. It never occurred
to me to doubt his love; I thought there must be some mistake, some offence unwittingly given,
and I looked to his coming to clear away all doubt and trouble. But I longed so for that coming!--it
seemed as if the weeks would never end. I knew he loved me; but I needed to hear him say it
once more,--to have every shadow dispelled, and nothing between us but the warmest affection
and fullest confidence.

In such a mood I met him. The house was full of guests, and I could not bear to see him for
the first time before so many eyes. I had watched, as may well be believed, for his arrival,
and a little before dark had seen him enter his mother's house. He would surely come over soon;
I ran down the long walk, and paced up and down beneath the trees, awaiting him. As soon as
he came in sight I hastened toward him; he met me kindly, but the change that had been in his
letters was plainer yet in his manner. It struck a chill to my heart.

"I suppose you have a house full of company, as usual," he remarked presently, glancing at
the brilliant windows.

"Yes, we have a number of friends staying with us. Will you go in and see them? There are several
whom you know."

"Thank you,--not to-night; I am not in the mood. And I have a good deal to say to you, Juanita,
that deeply concerns us both."

"Very well," I replied; "you had better tell me at once."

We walked on to the old garden-chair, and sat down as we had done that memorable night. We
were both silent,--I from disappointment and apprehension. He, I suppose, was collecting himself
for what he had to say.

"Juanita," he spoke at last, taking my hand in his, "I do not know how you will receive what
I am about to tell you. But this I wish you to promise me: that you will believe I speak for
our best happiness, --yours as well as mine."

"Go on," was all my reply.

"A year ago," he continued, "we sat here as we do now, and, spite of doubts and misgivings
and a broken resolution, I was happier than I shall ever be again. I had loved you from the
first moment I saw you, with a passion such as I shall never feel for any other woman. But
I knew that we were both poor; I knew that marriage in our circumstances could only be disastrous.
It would wear out your youth in servile cares; it would cripple my energies; it might even,
after a time, change our love to disgust and aversion. And so, though I believed myself not
indifferent to you, I resolved never to speak of my love, but to struggle against it, and root
it out of my heart. You know how differently it happened. Your changed manner, your averted
looks, gave me much pain. I feared to have offended you, or in some way forfeited your esteem.
I brought you here to ask an explanation. I said, 'Juanita, are you no longer my friend?' You
know what followed; the violence of your emotion showed me all. You remember?"

Did I not?--and was it not generous of him to remind me then?

"I saw you loved me, and the great joy of that knowledge made me forget prudence, reason, everything.
Afterwards, when alone, I tried to justify to myself what I had done, and partially succeeded.
I argued that we were young and could wait; I dreamed, too, that my ardor could outrun time,
and grasp in youth the rewards of mature life. In that hope I left you.

"Since then my views have greatly changed. I have seen something--not much, it is true--of
men and of life, and have found that it is an easy thing to dream of success, but a long and
difficult task to achieve it. That I have talent it would be affectation to deny; but many
a poor and struggling lawyer is my equal. The best I can hope for, Juanita, is a youth of severe
toil and griping penury, with, perhaps, late in life,--almost too late to enjoy it,--competence
and an honorable name. And even that is by no means secure; the labor and the poverty may last
my life long.

"You have been reared in the enjoyment of every luxury which wealth can command. How could
you bear to suffer privations, to perform menial labors, to be stinted in dress, deprived of
congenial society, obliged to refrain from every amusement, because you were unable to afford
the expense? How should you like to have a grinding economy continually pressing upon you,
in every arrangement of your household, every detail of your daily life? to have your best
days pass in petty cares and sayings, all your intellect expended in the effort to make your
paltry means do the greatest possible service?"

It was not a pleasant picture, but, harshly drawn as it was, I felt in the fulness of my love
that I could do all that, and more, for him. Oh, yes! for him and with him I would have accepted
any servitude, any suffering. Yet a secret something withheld me from saying so; and how glad
I soon was that I had kept silence!

"You make no reply, Juanita," he said. "Well, I might put on a pretence of disinterestedness,
and say that I was unwilling to bind you to such a fate, and therefore released you from your
engagement. It would not be altogether a pretence, for nothing could be more painful to me
than to see the brightness of your youth fading away in the life I have described. But I think
of myself, too; comforts, luxuries, indulgences, I value highly. Since my father's death I
have tasted enough of poverty to know something of its bitterness; and to be doomed to it for
life is appalling to me. The sordid cares of narrow means are so distasteful, that I cannot
contemplate them with any degree of patience. After a day of exhausting mental effort, to return
to a dingy, ill-furnished home,--to relieve professional labors by calculations about the gas-bill
or the butcher's account,--I shrink from such a miserable prospect! I love the elegant, the
high-bred, the tasteful, in women; I am afraid even my love for you would alter, Juanita, to
see you day by day in coarse or shabby clothing, performing such offices as are only suited
to servants,--whom we could not afford to keep.

"I have thought of it a great deal, and it seems to me that it is useless and hopeless, that
it would be the wildest folly, to continue our engagement. With our tastes and habits, we must
seek in marriage the means of comfort, the appliances of luxury. Others may find in it the
bewildering bliss we might have known, had fortune been favorable to us; but, as it is, I think
the best, the wisest, the happiest thing we can do is--to part!"

Oh, Heaven! this from him!

"Still, Juanita, if you think otherwise," he went on after a moment's pause,--"if you prefer
to hold me to our engagement, I am ready to fulfil it when you wish."

It was like a man to say this, and then to feel that he had acted uprightly and honorably!

I said nothing for a time; I could not speak. All hell woke in my heart. I knew then what lost
spirits might feel,--grief, and wounded pride, and rage, hatred, despair! In the midst of all
I made a vow; and I kept it well!

How I had loved this man!--with what a self-forgetting, adoring love! He had been my thought,
day and night. I would have done anything,--sacrificed, suffered anything,--yes, sinned even,--to
please his lightest fancy. And he cast me coldly off because I had no fortune!--trampled my
heart into the dust because I was poor!

"You make no answer, Juanita," he said, at length.

"I am thinking," I replied, looking up and laughing slightly, "how to say that I quite agree
with you, and have been planning all day how I should manage to tell you the very same thing."

Miserable falsehood! But I spoke it so coolly, that he was thoroughly deceived. He never suspected
the truth,--my deep love, my outraged pride.

"It is just as you have said, William. We have elegant tastes, and no means of gratifying them.
What should we do together? Only make each other miserable. You need a rich wife, I a rich
husband, who can supply us with the indulgences we demand. To secure these we can well make
the sacrifice of a few romantic fancies."

"I am glad you think so," he replied, yet somewhat absently.

"You must wait awhile for Florence," I continued; "she is four years old, and twelve years
hence you will yet be quite a personable individual. And Florence will have a fortune worth
waiting for, I assure you. Or perhaps you have somebody more eligible already in view. Come,
William, be frank,--tell me all about it."

"I did not expect this levity, Juanita," he answered, severely. "You must know that I have
never thought of such a thing. And believe me," he said, in a tenderer tone, "that, among all
the beautiful women I have seen,--and some have not disdained to show me favor,--none ever
touched my heart for a moment. Had we any reasonable prospect of happiness, I could never give
you up; I love you better a thousand times than anything in the world."

"Except yourself," I said, mockingly; and I looked at him with a mischievous smile, while a
storm of passion raged in my heart and my brain seemed on fire. "Be it so! I do not complain
of such a splendid rival. But really, William, I cannot boast of constancy like yours, even;
though I suppose most people would consider that rather a poor, flawed specimen. It hurt my
dignity very much when Uncle Heywood called our attachment a boy-and-girl affair; but I soon
found that he knew best about it. For a time I kept my love very warm and glowing; but it was
not long ere the distractions you bade me seek in society proved more potent than I wished.
I found there were other things to be enjoyed than dreams of you, and even--shall I confess
it? I can now, I suppose--other people to be admired as well as you!"

"Indeed!" he said, with ill-concealed annoyance. "You had a great talent for concealment, then;
your letters showed no trace of the change."

"I know they didn't," I answered, laughing. "I hated very much to admit even to myself that
I had altered; it seemed, you know, so capricious and childish,--in short, so far from romantic.
I kept up the illusion as long as I could; used to go off alone to read your letters, look
at your picture, and fancy I felt just as at first. Then when I sat down to write, and remembered
how handsome you were, and all that had happened, the old feelings would come back, and for
the time you were all I cared for. But I am very glad we have had this explanation, and understand
each other. We shall both be happier for it."

I had a little taste of vengeance, even then, when I saw how his vanity was wounded. He tried
to look relieved,--I dare say he tried to feel so,--but I question very much whether he was
pleased with himself that he had been so cool and philosophical. He did not wish to make me
wretched; but he had expected I would be so, as a matter of course. To find me so comfortable
under the infliction perplexed and disconcerted him.

"This will not make any coldness between us, I hope?" he said, at last. "We will be friends
still, dear Juanita?"

"Yes," I replied, "we will be friends, dear William. We are a great deal more in our true relations
thus than as lovers."

"And your uncle's family," he inquired,--"shall we explain all to them?"

"There is no need of that," I answered, carelessly. "Let things pass. After a time they will
perhaps notice that there is a change, and I can tell them that we are both tired of the engagement.
They will ask no further questions."

"Thank you," he said. "It will save me some embarrassment."

"Yes," I replied, looking at him steadily, "I think it would have been a rather awkward topic
for you to broach."

His eye fell before mine; through all the sophistry he had used, I think some slight sense
of the baseness of his conduct forced itself upon his mind.

"Now I must return to the house," I said, rising; "will you not come with me? My uncle and
aunt will expect to see you, and Anna Gray is here. You can make your first essay toward the
rich match this evening."

"Nonsense!" he said, impatiently, yet he accompanied me. I knew he did not like to lose sight
of me.

Never had I exerted myself so much to please any one, as I did that night to charm and attract
him;--not, indeed, by any marked attention; that would have failed of its object. But I talked
and danced; I displayed for his benefit all that I had acquired of ease and manner since he
left. I saw his astonishment, that the pale, quiet girl who was wont to sit in some corner,
almost unnoticed, should now be the life of that gay circle. I made him admire me most at the
very moment he had lost me forever,--and so far, all was well.

I went to my room that night a different creature. That place had been a kind of sanctuary
to me. By its vine-draped window I had loved to sit and think of him, to read the books he
liked, and fashion my mind to what he could approve. But the spot which I had left, a hopeful
and loving girl, I returned to, a forsaken and revengeful woman. My whole nature was wrought
up to one purpose,--to repay him, to the last iota, all he had made me suffer, all the humiliation,
the despair. It was strange how this purpose upbore and consoled me; for I needed consolation.
I hated him, yet I loved him fiercely, too; I despised him, yet I knew no other man would ever
touch my heart. He had been, he always must be, everything to me,--the one object to which
all my thoughts tended, to which my every action was referred.

I took from a drawer his letters and his few love-gifts. The paper I tore to fragments and
threw into the empty fireplace. I lighted the heap, and tossed the gifts, one after another,
into the flame. Last of all, I drew his portrait from my bosom. I gazed at it an instant, pressed
it to my lips. No,--I would not destroy this,--I would keep it to remind me.

I remember thinking, as I watched the flickering flame, that this was something like a witch's
incantation. I smiled at the idea.

The next morning there was only a heap of light ashes left in the grate. I pursued my purpose
determinedly and with unflagging zeal. I did not know exactly how it would be realized, but
I felt sure I should achieve it. My first care was to cultivate to the utmost every faculty
I possessed. My education had been hitherto of rather a substantial order; I had few accomplishments.
To these I turned my care. "What has a woman," I thought, "to do with solid learning? It never
tells in society." I had observed the rapt attention with which William listened to music.
Hitherto I had been only a passable performer, such as any girl of sixteen might be. But under
the influence of this new motive I studied diligently; the best masters were supplied me; and
soon my progress both astonished and delighted myself and all who heard me.

I have before said that a change for the better had taken place in my person; this I strove
by every means in my power to increase. I rode, I walked, I plied the oars vigorously upon
our little lake. My health grew firm, my cheeks more blooming, my form fuller and majestic.
I took the greatest pains with my toilet. It was wonderful to see, day by day, as I looked
into the mirror, the alteration that care and taste could effect in personal appearance. Could
this erect, stately figure, with its air of grace and distinction, be one with the thin, stooping
form, clad in careless, loose-fitting garb, which I so well remembered as myself? Could that
brilliant face, with its bands of shining hair, that smile of easy self-confidence, belong
to me? What, had become of the pale, spiritless girl? My uncle sometimes asked the question,
and, looking at me with a fond, admiring glance, would say,--"You were made for an empress,
Juanita!" I knew then that I was beautiful, and rejoiced in the knowledge; but no tinge of
vanity mingled with the joy. I cultivated my beauty, as I did my talents, for a purpose of
which I never lost sight.

It was now I learned for the first time that John Haughton loved me. When it became generally
understood that William and I were no longer engaged, John came forward. I do not know what
he, so good, so high-minded, saw in me; but certainly he loved me with a true affection. When
he avowed it, a strange joy seized me; I felt that now I held in my hand the key of William's
destiny. Now I should not lose my hold on him; we could not drift apart in the tide of life.
As John's bride, John's wife, there must always be an intimate connection between us. So I
yielded with well-feigned tenderness to my lover's suit,--only stipulating, that, as some time
must elapse before our marriage, no one should know of our attachment,--not even William, or
his mother,--nor, on my part, any of my uncle's family. He made no objection; I believe he
even took a romantic pleasure in the concealment. He liked to see me moving about in society,
and to feel that there was a tie between us that none dreamed of but ourselves. Poor John!
he deserved better of Fate than to be the tool of my revenge!

William came home, soon after our engagement, for his annual visit. He was succeeding rather
better than his dismal fancies had once prognosticated. He was very often at our house,--very
much my friend. I saw through all that clearly enough; I knew he loved me a hundred-fold more
passionately than in our earlier days; and the knowledge was to me as a cool draught to one
who is perishing of thirst. I did all in my power to enhance his love; I sang bewildering melodies
to him; I talked to him of the things he liked, and that roused his fine intellect to the exercise
of its powers. I rode with him, danced with him; nor did I omit to let him see the admiration
with which others of his sex regarded me. I was well aware that a man values no jewel so highly
as that which in a brilliant setting calls forth the plaudits of the crowd. I talked to him
often of his prospects and hopes; his ambition, all selfish as it was, fascinated me by its
pride and daring. "Ah, William!" I sometimes thought, "you made a deadly mistake when you cast
me off! You will never find another who can so enter, heart and soul, into all your brilliant
projects!"

He came to me, one morning, rather earlier than his wont. I was reading, but laid aside my
book to greet him.

"What have you there, Juanita? Some young-ladyish romance, I suppose."

"Not at all,--it is a very rational work; though I presume you will laugh at it, because it
contains a little sentiment,--you are grown so hard and cold, of late."

"Do you think so?" he asked, with a look that belied the charge.

He took up the volume, and, glancing through it, read now and then a sentence.

"What say you to this, Juanita? 'If we are still able to love one who has made us suffer, we
love him more than ever.' Is that true to your experience?"

"No," I answered, for I liked at times to approach the topic which was always uppermost in
my mind, and to see his perfect unconsciousness of it. "If any one had made me suffer, I should
not stop to inquire whether I were able to love him still or not; I should have but one thought
left,--revenge!"

"How very fierce!" he said, laughing. "And your idea of revenge is--what? To stab him with
your own white hand?"

"No!" I said, scornfully. "To kill a person you hate is, to my mind, the most pitiful idea
of vengeance. What! put him out of the world at once? Not so! He should live," I said, fixing
my eyes upon him,--"and live to suffer,--and to remember, in his anguish, why he suffered,
and to whose hand he owed it!"

It was a hateful speech, and would have repelled most men; for my life I dared not have made
it before John. But I knew to whom I was talking, and that he had no objection to a slight
spice of diablerie.

"What curious glimpses of character you open to me now and then," he said, thoughtfully. "Not
very womanly, however."

"Womanly!" I cried. "I wonder what a man's notion of woman is! Some soft, pulpy thing that
thrives all the better for abuse? a spaniel that loves you more, the more you beat it? a worm
that grows and grows in new rings as often as you cut it asunder? I wonder history has never
taught you better. Look at Judith with Holofernes,--Jael with Sisera,--or if you want profane
examples, Catherine de Medicis, Mademoiselle de Brinvilliers, Charlotte Corday. There are women
who have formed a purpose, and gone on steadily toward its accomplishment, even though, like
that Roman girl,--Tullia was her name?--they had to drive over a father's corpse to do it."

"You have known such, perhaps," said Richard.

"Yes," I answered, with, a gentle smile, "I have. They wished no harm, it might be, to any
one, but people stood in their way. It is as if you were going to the arbor after grapes, and
there were a swarm of ants in the path. You have no malice against the ants, but you want the
grapes,--so you walk on, and they are crushed."

I was thinking of John and of his love, but William did not know that. "You are a strange being!"
he said, looking at me with a mixture of admiration and distrust.

"Ah! Well, you see my race is somewhat anomalous,--a blending of the Spaniard and the Yankee.
Come, I will be all Spanish for a time; bring me the guitar. Now let me sing you a romance."

I struck the tinkling chords, and began a sweet love-ditty. Fixing my eyes on his, I made every
word speak to his heart from mine. I saw his color change, his eyes melt;--when the song ended,
he was at my feet.

I know not what he said; I only know it was passion, burning and intense. Oh, but it was balm
both to my love and hate to hear him! I let him go on as long as he would,--then I said, gently
caressing his bright hair,--

"You forget, dear William, all those lessons of prudence you taught me not so very long ago."

He poured forth the most ardent protestations; he begged me to forget all that cold and selfish
reasoning. Long since he had wished to offer me his hand, but feared lest I should repel him
with scorn. Would I not pardon his former ingratitude, and return his love?

"But you forget, my friend," I said, "that circumstances have not altered, but only your way
of viewing them; we must still be poor and humble. Don't you remember all your eloquent picturings
of the life we should be obliged to lead? Don't you recollect the dull, dingy house, the tired,
worn-out wife in shabby clothing"----

"Oh, hush, Juanita! Do not recall those wretched follies! Besides, circumstances have somewhat
changed; I am not so very poor. My income, though small, will be sufficient, if well-managed,
to maintain us in comfort and respectability."

"Comfort and respectability!" I exclaimed, with a shudder. "Oh, William, can you imagine that
such words apply to me? The indulgences of wealth are necessary to me as the air I breathe.
I suppose you would be able to shield me from absolute suffering; but that is not enough. Do
not speak of this again, for both our sakes. And now, good friend," I added, in a lighter tone,
"I advise you to get up as soon as may be; we are liable to interruption at any time; and your
position, though admirable for a tableau, would be a trifle embarrassing for ordinary life."

He started to his feet, and would have left me in anger, but I recalled him with a word. It
was good to feel my power over this man who had slighted and rejected me. Before we parted
that day he had quite forgiven me for refusing him and making him ridiculous; I thought a little
of the spaniel was transferred to him. I saw, too, he had a hope, which I carefully forbore
to contradict, that I preferred him to any other, and would accept him, could he but win a
fortune for me. And so I sent him out into the world again, full of vain, feverish desires
after the impossible. I gave him all the pains of love without its consolations. It was good,
as far as it went.

John and I, meanwhile, got on very peacefully together. He was not demonstrative, nor did he
exact demonstration from me. I had promised to marry him, and he trusted implicitly to my faith;
while his love was so reverent, his ideal of maiden delicacy so exalted, that I should have
suffered in his esteem, I verily believe, had my regard been shown other than by a quiet tenderness
of manner.

About this time my uncle's family went abroad. They wished me to accompany them, but I steadily
declined. When they pressed me for a reason, I told them of my engagement to John, and that
I was unwilling to leave him for so long a time. The excuse was natural enough, and they believed
me; and it was arranged that during the period of their absence I should remain with a sister
of Mrs. Heywood.

The time passed on. I saw William frequently. Often he spoke to me of his love, and I scarcely
checked him; I liked to feed him with false hopes, as once he had done to me. He did not speak
again of marriage; I knew his pride forbade it. I also knew that he believed I loved him, and
would wait for him.

I heard often from our travellers, and always in terms of kindness and affection. At last their
speedy return was announced; they were to sail in the "Arctic," and we looked joyfully forward
to the hour of their arrival. Too soon came the news of the terrible disaster; a little while
of suspense, and the awful certainty became apparent. My kind, indulgent uncle and all his
family, whom I loved as I would my own parents and sisters, were buried in the depths of the
Atlantic.

I will not attempt to describe my grief; it has nothing to do with the story that is written
here. When, after a time, I came back to life and its interests, a startling intelligence awaited
me. My uncle had died intestate; his wife and children had perished with him; as next of kin,
I was sole heir to his immense estate. When my mind fully took in the meaning of all this I
felt that a crisis was at hand. Day by day I looked for William.

I had not long to wait. I was sitting by my window on a bright October day, reading a book
I loved well,--"Shirley," one of the three immortal works of a genius fled too soon. As I read,
I traced a likeness to my own experience; Caroline was a curious study to me. I marvelled at
her meek, forgiving spirit; if I would not imitate, I did not condemn her.

Then I heard the gate-latch click; I looked out through the vine-leaves, all scarlet with the
glory of the season, and saw William coming up the walk. I knew why he was there, and, still
retaining the volume in my hand, went down to meet him.

We walked out in the grounds; it was a perfect afternoon; all the splendor of autumn, without
a trace of its swift-coming decay. Gold, crimson, and purple shone the forests through their
softening haze; and the royal hues were repeated on the mountain, reflected in the river. The
sky was cloudless and intensely blue; the sunlight fell, with red glow, on the fading grass.
A few late flowers of gorgeous hues yet lingered in the beds and borders; and a sweet wind,
that might have come direct from paradise, sighed over all. William and I walked on, conversing.

At first we spoke of the terrible disaster and my loss; he could be gentle when he chose, and
now his tenderness and sympathy were like a woman's. I almost forgot, in listening, what he
was and had been to me. I was reminded when he began to speak of ourselves; I recalled it fully,
when again, with all the power that passion and eloquence could impart, he declared his love,
and begged me to be his.

I looked at him; to my eye he seemed happy, hopeful, triumphant; handsomer he could not be,
and to me there was a strange fascination in his lofty, masculine beauty. I felt then, what
I had always known, that I loved him even while I hated him, and for an instant I wavered.
Life with him! It looked above all things dear, desirable! But what! Show such a weak, such
a womanish spirit? Give up my revenge at the very moment that it was within my grasp,--the
revenge I had lived for through so many years? Never!--I recalled the night under the lindens,
and was myself again.

"Dear William," I said, gently, "you amaze and distress me. Such love as a sister may give
to an only brother you have long had from me. Why ask for any other?"

"'A sister's love!'" he cried, impatiently. "I thought, Juanita, you were above such paltry
subterfuges! Is it as a brother I have loved you all these long and weary years?"

"Perhaps not,--I cannot say. At any rate," I continued, gravely, "a sisterly affection is all
I can give you now."

"You are trifling with me, Juanita! Cease! It is unworthy of you."

He seized my hand, and clasped it to his breast. How wildly his heart beat under my touch!
I trembled from head to foot,--but I said, in a cold voice, "You are a good actor, William!"

"You cannot look in my eyes and say you believe that charge," he answered.

I essayed to do it,--but my glance fell before his, so ardent, so tender. Spite of myself,
my cheeks burned with blushes. Quietly I withdrew my hand and said, "I am to be married to
John in December."

Ah, but there was a change then! The flush and the triumph died out of his face, as when a
lamp is suddenly extinguished. Yet there was as much indignation as grief in his voice when
he said,--

"Heaven forgive you, Juanita! You have wilfully, cruelly deceived me!"

"Deceived you!" I replied, rising with dignity. "Make no accusation. If deceived you were,
you have simply your own vanity, your own folly, to blame for whatever you may suffer."

"You have listened to my love, and encouraged me to hope"----

"Silence! I did love you once,--your cold heart can never guess how well, how warmly. I would
have loved on through trial and suffering forever; no one could have made me believe anything
against you; nothing could have shaken my fidelity, or my faith in yours. It was reserved for
yourself to work my cure,--for your own lips to pronounce the words that changed my love to
cool contempt."

"Oh, Juanita," he cried, passionately, "will you always be so vindictive? Will you forever
remind me of that piece of insane folly? Let it go,--it was a boy's whim, too silly to remember."

"You were no boy then," I answered. "You had a mature prudence,--a careful thoughtfulness for
self. Or if otherwise, in your case the child was indeed father to the man."

"Your love is dead, then, I suppose?" he questioned, with a bitter smile.

I handed him the book I had been reading.

William raised his head with an air of proud defiance. "And in what sense," he asked, "do such
words apply to me?"

"You are strangely obtuse," I said. "You see no trace of yourself in that passage--no trace
of meanness in the man who cast off the penniless orphan, with her whole heart full of love
for him, yet pleads so warmly with the rich heiress, when he knows she is pledged to another?"

"You have said enough, Juanita," he replied, with concentrated passion. "This is too much to
bear, even from you, from whom I have already endured so much. You know you do not believe it."

"I do believe it," was my firm reply. It was false, but what did I care? It served my purpose.

"I might bid you remember," he said, "how I urged you to be mine when my prospects had grown
brighter, and you were poor as before. I might appeal to the manner in which my suit has been
urged for years, as a proof of my innocence of this charge that you have brought against me.
But I disdain to plead my cause with so unwomanly a heart,--that measures the baseness of others
by what it knows of its own."

He went, and for a time I was left in doubt whether my victory had been really achieved. Then
I thought it all over, and was reassured. He could not simulate those looks and tones,--no,
nor that tumult of feeling which had made his heart throb so wildly beneath my hand. He loved
me,--that was certain; and no matter how great his anger or his indignation, my refusal must
have cut him to the soul. And the charge I had made would rankle, too. These thoughts were
my comfort when John told me, with grief and surprise, that his brother had joined the Arctic
expedition under Dr. Kane. I knew it was for no light cause he would forsake the career just
opening so brightly before him.

John and I were married in December, as had been our intention. We led a quiet, but to him
a happy, life. He often wondered at my content with home and its seclusion, and owned what
fears he had felt, before our marriage, lest I, accustomed to gayety and excitement, should
weary of him, the thoughtful, book-loving man. It seemed he had made up his mind to all manner
of self-sacrifice in the way of accompanying me to parties, and having guests at our own house.
I did not exact much from him; I cared little for the gay world in which William no longer
moved. I read with John his favorite books; I interested myself in the sciences which he pursued
with such enthusiasm. It was no part of my plan to inflict unnecessary misery on any one, and
I strove with all my power to make happy the man whom I had chosen. I succeeded fully; and
when we sat on the piazza in the moonlight, my head resting on his shoulder, my hand clasped
in his, he would tell me how infinitely dearer the wife had grown to be than even the lover's
fancy had portrayed her.

And my thoughts were far away from the bland airs and brightening moon amid the frozen solitudes
of the North. Where was William? what was he doing? did he think of me? and how? What if he
should perish there, and we should never meet again? Life grew blank at the thought; I put
it resolutely away.

I had drunk of the cup of vengeance; it was sweet, but did not satisfy. I longed for a fuller
draught; but might it not be denied to my fevered lips? Perhaps, amid the noble and disinterested
toils of the expedition, his heart would outgrow all love for me, and when we met again I should
see my power was gone. I pondered much on this; I believed at last that the solitude, the isolation,
would be not unpropitious to me. From the little world of the ice-locked vessel his thoughts
would turn to the greater world he had left, and I should be remembered. When he returned we
should be much together. His mother was dead; our house was the only place he could call his
home. Not even for me, I felt assured, would he cast off the love of his only brother. I had
not done with him yet. So quietly and composedly I awaited his return.

He came at last, and his manner when we met smote me with a strange uneasiness. It was not
the estrangement of a friend whom I had injured, but the distant politeness of a stranger.
Was my influence gone? I determined to know, once for all. When we chanced to be alone a moment
I went to his side. "William," I asked, laying my hand on his arm, and speaking in a tender,
reproachful tone, "why do you treat me so?"

With a quick, decided motion, he removed my hand,--then looked down on me with a smile. "'You
are strangely obtuse,'" he said, quoting my own words of two years before. "What can Mrs. Haughton
desire from a base fortune-hunter with whom she is unhappily connected by marriage, but a humility
that does not presume on the relationship?"

I saw a bold stroke was needed, and that I must stoop to conquer. "Oh, William," I said, sorrowfully,
"you called me vindictive once, but it is you who are really so. I was unhappy, harassed, distracted
between"----

"Between what?"

"I do not know--I mean I cannot tell you," I stammered, with well-feigned confusion. "Can you
not forgive me, William? Often and often, since you left me that day, I have wished to see
you, and to tell you how I repented my hasty and ungenerous words. Will you not pardon me?
Shall we not be friends again?"

"I am not vindictive," he said, more kindly,--"least of all toward you. But I cannot see how
you should desire the friendship of one whom you regard as a mercenary hypocrite. When you
can truthfully assure me that you disbelieve that charge, then, and not till then, will I forgive
you and be your friend."

"Let it be now, then," I said, joyfully, holding out my hand. He did not reject it;--we were
reconciled.

William had come home ill; the hardships of the expedition and the fearful cold of the Arctic
Zone had been too much for him. The very night of his return I noticed in his countenance a
frequent flush succeeded by a deadly pallor; my quick ear had caught, too, the sound of a cough,--not
frequent or prolonged, but deep and hollow. And now, for the first time in my long and dreary
toil, I saw the path clear and the end in view.

Every one knows with what enthusiasm the returned travellers were hailed. Amid the felicitations,
the praises, the banquets, the varied excitements of the time, William forgot his ill-health.
When these were over, he reopened his office, and prepared to enter once more on the active
duties of his profession. But he was unfit for it; John and I both saw this, and urged him
to abandon the attempt for the present,--to stay with us, to enjoy rest, books, society, and
not till his health was fully reestablished undertake the prosecution of business.

"You forget, my good sister," he laughingly said to me one day,--(he could jest on the subject
now,)--"that I have not the fortune of our John,--I did not marry an heiress, and I have my
own way to make. I had got up a few rounds of the ladder when an adverse fate dragged me down.
Being a free man once more, I must struggle up again as quickly as may be."

"Oh, for that matter," I returned, in the same tone, "I had some part, perhaps, in the adverse
fate you speak of; so it is but fair that I should make you what recompense I can. I am an
admirable nurse; and you will gain time, if you will deliver yourself up to my care, and not
go back to Coke and Chitty till I give you leave. Seriously, William, I fear you do not know
how ill you are, and how unsafe it is for you to go on with business."

He yielded without much persuasion, and came home to us. Those were happy days. William and
I were constantly together. I read to him, I sung to him, and played chess with him; on mild
days I drove him out in my own little pony-carriage. Did he love me all this time? I could
not tell. Never by look or tone did he intimate that the old affection yet lived in his heart.
I fancied he felt as I with him,--perfect content in my companionship, without a thought or
wish beyond. We were made for each other; our tastes, our habits of mind and feeling, fully
harmonized; had we been born brother and sister, we should have preferred each other to all
the world, and, remaining single for each other's sakes, have passed our lives together.

So the time wore on, sweetly and placidly, and only I seemed to notice the failure in our invalid;
but I watched for it too keenly, too closely, to be blinded. The occasional rallies of strength
that gave John such hope, and cheered William himself so greatly, did not deceive me; I knew
they were but the fluctuations of his malady. Changes in the weather, or a damp east wind,
did not account to me for his relapses; I knew he was in the grasp of a fell, a fatal disease;
it might let him go awhile, give him a little respite, as a cat does the mouse she has caught,--but
he never could escape,--his doom was fixed.

But you may be sure I gave him no hint of it, and he never seemed to suspect it for himself.
One could not believe such blindness possible, did we not see it verified in so many instances,
year after year.

Often, now, I thought of a passage in an old book I used to read with many a heart-quake in
my girlish days. It ran thus:--"Perhaps we may see you flattering yourself, through a long,
lingering illness, that you shall still recover, and putting off any serious reflection and
conversation for fear it should overset your spirits. And the cruel kindness of friends and
physicians, as if they were in league with Satan to make the destruction of your soul as sure
as possible, may, perhaps, abet this fatal deceit." We had all the needed accessories: the
kind physician, anxious to amuse and fearful to alarm his patient,--telling me always to keep
up his spirits, to make him as cheerful and happy as I could; and the cruel friends--I had
not far to seek for them.

For a time William came down-stairs every morning, and sat up during the greater part of the
day. Then he took to lying on the sofa for hours together. At last, he did not rise till afternoon,
and even then was too much fatigued to sit up long. I prepared for his use a large room on
the south side of the house, with a smaller apartment within it; to this we carried his favorite
books and pictures, his easy-chair and lounge. My piano stood in a recess; a guitar hung near
it. When all was finished, it looked homelike, pleasant; and we removed William to it, one
mild February day.

"This is a delightful room," he said, gazing about him. "How pleasant the view from these windows
will be as spring comes on!"

"You will not need it," I said, "by that time."

"I should be glad, if it were so," he replied; "but I am not quite so sanguine as you are,
Juanita."

He did not guess my meaning; how should he, amused, flattered, kept along as he had been? To
him, life, with all its activities, its prizes, its pleasures, seemed but a little way removed;
a few weeks or months and he should be among them again. But I knew, when he entered that room,
that he never would go forth again till he was borne where narrower walls and a lowlier roof
should shut him in.

I had an alarm one day. "Juanita," said the invalid, when I had arranged his pillows comfortably,
and was about to begin the morning's reading, "do not take the book we had yesterday. I wish
you would read to me in the Bible."

What did this mean? Was this proud, worldly-minded man going to humble himself, and repent,
and be forgiven? And was I to be defrauded thus of my just revenge? Should he pass away to
an eternal life of holiness and joy,--while I, stained through him and for his sake with sins
innumerable, sank ever lower and lower in unending misery and despair? Oh, I must stop this,
if it were not yet too late.

"What!" I said, pretending to repress a smile, "are you getting alarmed about yourself, William?
Or is Saul really going to be found among the prophets, after all?"

He colored, but made no reply. I opened the Bible and read two or three of the shorter Psalms,--then,
from the New Testament, a portion of the Sermon on the Mount.

"It must have been very sweet," I observed, "for those who were able to receive Jesus as the
true Messiah, and his teachings as infallible, to hear these words from his lips."

"And do you not so receive them?" William asked.

"We will not speak of that; my opinion is of no weight."

"But you must have thought much of these things," he persisted; "tell me what result you have
arrived at."

"Candidly, then," I said, "I have read and pondered much on what this book contains. It seems
to me, that, if it teaches anything, it clearly teaches, that, no matter how we flatter ourselves
that we are doing as we choose, and carrying out our own designs and wishes, we are all the
time only fulfilling purposes that have been fixed from all eternity. Since, then, we are the
subjects of an Inexorable Will, which no entreaties or acts of ours can alter or propitiate,
what is there for us to do but simply to bear as best we can what comes upon us? It is a short
creed."

"And a gloomy one," he said.

"You are right; a very gloomy one. If you can rationally adopt a cheerfuller, pray, do it.
I do not wish for any companion in mine."

There was silence for a time, and then I said, with affectionate earnestness, "Dear William,
why trouble yourself with these things in your weak and exhausted state? Surely, the care of
your health is enough for you, now. By-and-by, when you have in some measure regained your
strength, look seriously into this subject, if you wish. It is an important one for all. I
am afraid I gave you an overdose of anodyne last night, and am to blame for your low spirits
of this morning. Own, William," I said, smilingly, "that you were terribly hypped, and fancied
you never could recover."

He looked relieved as I spoke thus lightly. "I should find it sad to die," he said. "Life looks
bright to me even yet."

This man was a coward. He dreaded that struggle, that humiliation of spirit, through which
all must pass ere peace with Heaven is achieved. Yet more, perhaps, he dreaded that deeper
struggle which ensues when we essay to tear Self from its throne in the heart, and place God
thereon. As he said, life looked bright to him; and all his plans and purposes in life were
for himself, his own advancement, his own well-being. It would have been hard to make the change;
and he thought it was not necessary now, at least.

No more was said upon the subject. Our days went on as before. There was a little music, some
light reading, an occasional call from a friend,--and long pauses of rest between all these.
And slowly, but surely, life failed, and the soul drew near its doom.

I knew now that he loved me still; he talked of it sometimes when he woke suddenly, and did
not at once remember where he was; I saw it, too, in his look, his manner; but we never breathed
it to each other, and he did not think I knew.

One night there was a great change; physicians were summoned in haste; there were hours of
anxious watching. Toward morning he seemed a little better, and I was left alone with him.
He slumbered quietly, but when he awoke there was a strange and solemn look in his face, such
as I had never seen before. I knew what it must mean.

"When Dr. Hammond comes, let me see him alone," he whispered.

I made no objection; nothing could frustrate my purpose now.

The physician came,--a kind old man, who had known us all from infancy. He was closeted awhile
with William; then he came out, looking deeply moved.

"Go to him,--comfort him, if you can," he said.

"You have told him?" I asked.

"Yes,--he insisted upon hearing the truth, and I knew he had got where it could make no difference.
Poor fellow! it was a terrible blow."

I wanted a few moments for reflection; I sent John in my stead. I locked myself in my own room,
and tried to get the full weight of what I was going to do. I was about to meet him who had
rejected my heart's best love, no longer in the flush and insolence of health and strength,
but doomed, dying,--with a dark, hopeless eternity stretching out before his shuddering gaze.
And when he turned to me in those last awful moments for solace and affection, I was to tell
him that the girl he loved, the woman he adored, had since that one night kept the purpose
of vengeance hot in her heart,--that for years her sole study had been to baffle and to wound
him,--and that now, through all those months that she had been beside him, that he had looked
to her as friend, helper, comforter, she had kept her deadly aim in view. She had deceived
him with false hopes of recovery; she had turned again to the world the thoughts which he would
fain have fixed on heaven; while he was loving her, she had hated him. She had darkened his
life; she had ruined his soul.

Oh, was not this a revenge worthy of the name?

I went to him. He was sitting in the great easy-chair, propped with pillows; John had left
the room, overcome by his feelings. Never shall I forget that face,--the despair of those eyes.

I sat down by him and took his hand.

"The Doctor has told you?" I murmured.

"Yes,--and what is this world which I so soon must enter? I believe too much to have one moment's
peace in view of what is coming. Oh, why did I not believe more before it was too late?"

I kept silence a few minutes; then I said,--

"Listen, William,--I have something to tell you."

He looked eagerly toward me;--perhaps he thought even then, poor dupe, that it was some word
of hope, that there was some chance for his recovery.

Then I told him all,--all,--my lifelong hatred, my cherished purpose. Blank amazement was in
the gaze that he turned upon me. I feared that impending death had blunted his senses, and
that he did not fully comprehend.

"You will remember now what I once told you," I cried, with savage joy; "for so surely as there
is another world, in that world shall you live, and live to suffer, and to remember in your
anguish why you suffer, and to whose hand you owe it."

He understood well enough now. "Fiend!" he exclaimed, with a look of horror, and started to
his feet. The effort, the emotion, were too much. Blood gushed from his lips; a frightful spasm
convulsed his features; he fell back; he was gone!

Yes,--he was gone! And my life's work was complete!

I cannot tell what happened after that. I suppose they must have found him, and laid him out,
and buried him; but I remember nothing of it. Since then I have lived in this great, gloomy
house, with its barred doors and windows. Never since I came here have I seen a face that I
knew. Maniacs are all about me; I meet them in the halls, the gardens; sometimes I hear the
fiercer sort raving and dashing about their cells. But I do not feel afraid of them.

It is strange how they all fancy that the rest are mad, and they the only sane ones. Some of
them even go so far as to think that I have lost my reason. I heard one woman say, not long
ago,--"Why, she has been mad these twenty years! She never was married in her life; but she
believes all these things as if they were really so, and tells them over to anybody who will
listen to her."

Mad these twenty years! So young as I am, too! And I never married, and all my wrongs a maniac's
raving! I was angry at first, and would have struck her; then I thought, "Poor thing! Why should
I care? She does not know what she is saying."

And I go about, seeing always before me that pallid, horror-stricken face; and wishing sometimes--oh,
how vainly!--that I had listened to him that bright October day,--that I had been a happy wife,
perchance a happy mother. But no, no! I must not think thus. Once I look at it in that way,
my whole life becomes a terror, a remorse. I will not, must not, have it so.

Then let me rejoice again, for I have had my revenge,--a great, a glorious revenge!

       *       *       *       *       *

LEFT BEHIND.

  It was the autumn of the year;
  The strawberry-leaves were red and sere;
  October's airs were fresh and chill,
  When, pausing on the windy hill,
  The hill that overlooks the sea,
  You talked confidingly to me,
  Me, whom your keen artistic sight
  Has not yet learned to read aright,
  Since I have veiled my heart from you,
  And loved you better than you knew.

  You told me of your toilsome past,
  The tardy honors won at last,
  The trials borne, the conquests gained,
  The longed-for boon of Fame attained:
  I knew that every victory
  But lifted you away from me,--
  That every step of high emprise
  But left me lowlier in your eyes;
  I watched the distance as it grew,
  And loved you better than you knew.

  You did not see the bitter trace
  Of anguish sweep across my face;
  You did not hear my proud heart beat
  Heavy and slow beneath your feet;
  You thought of triumphs still unwon,
  Of glorious deeds as yet undone;--
  And I, the while you talked to me,
  I watched the gulls float lonesomely
  Till lost amid the hungry blue,
  And loved you better than you knew.

  You walk the sunny side of Fate;
  The wise world smiles, and calls you great;
  The golden fruitage of success
  Drops at your feet in plenteousness;
  And you have blessings manifold,--
  Renown, and power, and friends, and gold;
  They build a wall between us twain
  Which may not be thrown down again;--
  Alas! for I, the long years through,
  Have loved you better than you knew.

  Your life's proud aim, your art's high truth
  Have kept the promise of your youth;
  And while you won the crown which now
  Breaks into bloom upon your brow,
  My soul cried strongly out to you
  Across the ocean's yearning blue,
  While, unremembered and afar,
  I watched you, as I watch a star
  Through darkness struggling into view,
  And loved you better than you knew.

  I used to dream, in all these years,
  Of patient faith and silent tears,--
  That Love's strong hand would put aside
  The barriers of place and pride,--
  Would reach the pathless darkness through,
  And draw me softly up to you.
  But that is past. If you should stray
  Beside my grave, some future day,
  Perchance the violets o'er my dust
  Will half betray their buried trust,
  And say, their blue eyes full of dew,
  "She loved you better than you knew."

       *       *       *       *       *

COFFEE AND TEA.

Facts, and figures representing facts, are recognized as stubborn adversaries when arrayed
singly in an argument; in aggregate, and in generalizations drawn from aggregates, they are
often unanswerable.

To the nervous reader it may seem a startling, and to the reformatory one a melancholy fact,
that every soul in these United States has provided for him annually, and actually consumes,
personally or by proxy, between six and seven pounds of coffee, and a pound of tea; while in
Great Britain enough of these two luxuries is imported and drunk to furnish every inhabitant,
patrician or pauper, with over a pound of the former, and two of the latter.

Coffee was brought to Western Europe, by way of Marseilles, in 1644, and made its first appearance
in London about 1652. In 1853, the estimated consumption of coffee in Great Britain, according
to official returns, was thirty-five million pounds, and in the United States, one hundred
and seventy-five million pounds, a year.

Tea, in like manner, from its first importation into England by the Dutch East India Company,
early in the seventeenth century, and from a consumption indicated by its price, being sixty
shillings a pound, has proportionately increased in national use, until, in 1854, the United
States imported and retained for home consumption twenty-five million pounds, and England fifty-eight
million pounds.

Two centuries have witnessed this almost incredible advance. The consumption of coffee alone
has increased, in the past twenty-five years, at the rate of four per cent. per annum, throughout
the world.

We pay annually for coffee fifteen millions of dollars, and for tea seven millions. Twenty-two
millions of dollars for articles which are popularly accounted neither fuel, nor clothing,
nor food!

"What a waste!" cries the reformer; "nearly a dollar apiece, from every man, woman, and child
throughout the country, spent on two useless luxuries!"

Is it a waste? Is it possible that we throw all this away, year after year, in idle stimulation
or sedation?

It is but too true, that the instinct, leading to the use of some form of stimulant, appears
to be universal in the human race. We call it an instinct, since all men naturally search for
stimulants, separately, independently, and unceasingly,--because use renders their demands
as imperious as are those for food.

Next to alcohol and tobacco, coffee and tea have supplied more of the needed excitement to
mankind than any other stimulants; and, taking the female sex into the account, they stand
far above the two former substances in the ratio of the numbers who use them.

In Turkey coffee is regarded as the essence of hospitality and the balm of life. In China not
only is tea the national beverage, but a large part of the agricultural and laboring interest
of the country is engaged in its cultivation. Russia follows next in the almost universal use
of tea, as would naturally result from its proximity and the common origin of a large part
of its population. Western Europe employs both coffee and tea largely, while France almost
confines itself to the former. The cafés are more numerous, and have a more important social
bearing, than any other establishments in the cities of France. Great Britain uses more tea
than coffee. The former beverage is there thought indispensable by all classes. The poor dine
on half a loaf rather than lose their cup of tea; just as the French peasant regards his demi-bouteille
of Vin Bleu as the most important part of his meal.

Tea first roused the rebellion of these American Colonies; and tea made many a half Tory among
the elderly ladies of the Revolution. It has, indeed, been regarded, and humorously described
by the senior Weller, as the indispensable comforter and friend of advanced female life. Dr.
Johnson was as noted for his fondness for tea as for his other excesses at the table. Many
sober minds make coffee and tea the pis a tergo of their daily intellectual labor; just as
a few of greater imagination or genius seek in opium the spur of their ephemeral efforts. In
the United States, the young imbibe them from their youth up; and it is quite as possible that
a part of the nation's nervousness may arise from this cause, as it is probable that our wide-spread
dyspepsia begins in the use of badly-cooked solid food, immediately on the completion of the
first dentition.

All over this country we drink coffee and tea, morning and night; at least, the majority of
us do. They are expensive; their palpable results to the senses are fleeting; they are reported
innutritious; nay, far worse, they are decried as positively unwholesome. Yet we still use
them, and no one has succeeded in leading a crusade against them at all comparable with the
onslaughts on other stimulants, made in these temperance days. The fair sex raises its voice
against tobacco and other masculine sedatives, but clings pertinaciously to this delusion.

It becomes, then, an important question to decide whether the choice of civilization is justified
by experience or science,--and whether some effect on the animal economy, ulterior to a merely
soothing or stimulant action, can be found to sanction the use of coffee and tea. And this
is a question in so far differing from that of other stimulants, that it is not to be discussed
with the moralist, but solely with the economist and the sanitarian.

More even than us, economically, does it concern the overcrowded and limited states of Europe,
where labor is cheap, and the necessaries of life absorb all the efforts, to decide whether
so much of the earnings of the poor is annually thrown away in idle stimulation.

It concerns us in a sanitary point of view, more than in any other way, and more than any other
people. We are rich, spare in habit, and of untiring industry. We can afford luxurious indulgences,
we are very susceptible to nervous stimuli, and we overwork.

Our national habit is feeble. Debility is recognized as the prevailing type of our diseases.
Nervous exhaustion is met by recourse to all kinds of stimulation. We are apt to think coffee
and tea as harmless, or rather as slow in their deleterious action, as any. Are they nothing more?

As debility marks the degeneration of our physical constitution, so does a morbid sensitiveness
at all earthly indulgence, a tendency to reform things innocent, although useless, betray the
weakness of the moral health of our day. An ascetic spirit is abroad; our amateur physiologists
look rather to a mortification than an honest building-up of the flesh. They prefer naked muscle
to rounded outline, and seek rather to test than to enjoy their bodies. Fearing to be Epicureans,
they become Spartans, as far as their feebler organizations will allow them, and very successful
Stoics, by the aid of Saxon will. By a faulty logic, things which in excess are hurtful are
denied a moderate use. Habits innocent in themselves are to be cast aside, lest they induce
others which are injurious.

There is but little danger that Puritan antecedents and a New England climate should tend to
idle indulgence or Epicurean sloth. We think there is a tendency to reform too far. We confess
our preference for the physique of Apollo to that of Hercules. We acknowledge an amiable weakness
for those bounties of Nature which soothe or comfort us or renew our nervous energy, and which,
we think, injure us no more than our daily bread, if not immoderately used.

Science almost always finds some foundation in fact for popular prejudices. For years, men
have continued wasting their substance on coffee and tea, insisting that they strengthened
as well as comforted them, in spite of the warnings of the sanitarian, who looked on them solely
as stimulants or sedatives, and of the economist, who bewailed their extravagant cost.

Physiology, relying on organic chemistry, has at least justified by experiment the choice of
the civilized world. Coffee and tea had been regarded by the physiologist and the physician
as stimulants of the nervous system, and to a less extent and secondarily of the circulation,
and that was all. To fulfil this object, and to answer the endless craving for habitual excitants
of the cerebral functions, they had been admitted reluctantly to the diet of their patients,
rather as necessary evils than as positive goods. It was reserved for the all-searching German
mind to discover their better qualities; and it is only within the last five years, that the
self-sacrificing experiments of Dr. Böcker of Bonn, and of Dr. Julius Lehmann, have raised
them to their proper place in dietetics, as "Accessory Foods." This term, which we borrow from
the remarkable work on "Digestion and its Derangements," by Dr. Thomas K. Chambers, of London,
is only the slightest of the many obligations which we hasten to acknowledge ourselves under
to this author, as will appear from citations in the course of this article.

The labors of earlier physiologists and chemists, as Carpenter, Liebig, and Paget, had resulted
in the classification of nutritive substances under different heads, according to the purposes
they served in the physical economy. Perhaps the most convenient, though not an unexceptionable
division, is into the Saccharine, Oleaginous, Albuminous, and Gelatinous groups. The first
includes those substances analogous in composition to sugar, being chemically composed of hydrogen,
carbon, and oxygen. Such are starch, gum, cellulose, and so forth, which are almost identical
in their ultimate composition, and admit of ready conversion into sugar by a simple process
of vital chemistry. The oleaginous group comprises all oily matters, which are even purer hydro-carbons
than the first-mentioned class. The third, or albuminous group, includes all substances closely
allied to albumen, and hence containing a large proportion of nitrogen in addition to the other
three elements. The last group consists also of nitrogenized substances, which resemble gelatine
in many of their characteristics. The first two groups are called non-azotized, as they contain
no nitrogen; the last two, azotized, containing nitrogen. "All articles of food that are to
be employed in the production of heat must contain a larger proportion of hydrogen than is
sufficient to form water with the oxygen that they contain, and none are appropriate for the
maintenance of any tissues (except the adipose) unless they contain nitrogen." Hence the obvious
restriction of the first two classes to the heat-producing function, and of the last two (or
azotized) to the reparation of the tissues.

We have, then, the two natural divisions of calorifacient and plastic foods: the one adapted
to sustain the heat of the body, and enable us to maintain a temperature independent of that
of the medium we may be in; the other to build up, repair, and preserve in their natural proportions
the various tissues, as the muscular, fibrous, osseous, or nervous, which compose our frames.
These two kinds of food we must have in due proportion and quantity in order to live. Neither
the animal nor the vegetable kingdom furnishes the one to the exclusion of the other. We derive
our supplies of each from both. More than this, we consume and appropriate certain incidental
elements, which find their place and use in the healthy system. Iron floats in our blood, sulphur
lies hidden in the hair and nails, phosphorus scintillates unseen in the brain, lime compacts
our bones, and fluorine sets the enamelled edges of our teeth. At least one-third of all the
known chemical elements exist in some part of the human economy, and are taken into the stomach
hidden in our various articles of food. This would seem enough for Nature's requirements. It
is enough for all the brute creation. As men, and as thinkers, we need something more.

In all the lower orders of creation the normal state is preserved. Health is the rule, and
sickness the rare exception. Demand and supply are exactly balanced. The contraction of the
voluntary muscles, and the expenditure of nervous power consequent on locomotion, the temperate
use of the five senses, and the quiet, regular performance of the great organic processes,
limit the life and the waste of the creature. But when the brain expands in the dome-like cranium
of the human being, a new and incessant call is made on the reparative forces. The nervous
system has its demands increased a hundred-fold. We think, and we exhaust; we scheme, imagine,
study, worry, and enjoy, and proportionately we waste.

In the rude and primitive nations this holds good much less than among civilized people. Yet
even among them, the faculties whose possession involves this loss have been ever exercised
to repair it by artificial means. In the busy life of to-day how much more is this the case!
Overworked brains and stomachs, underworked muscles and limbs, soon derange the balance of
supply and demand. We waste faster than enfeebled digestion can well repair. We feel always
a little depressed; we restore the equilibrium temporarily by stimulation,--some with alcohol
and tobacco, others with coffee and tea. Now it is to these last means of supply that the name
has been given of "accessory foods."

"Accessories are those by whose use the moulting and renewing (that is, the metamorphosis)
of the organic structures are modified, so as best to accommodate themselves to required circumstances.
They may be subdivided into those which arrest and those which increase metamorphosis." It
is under the former class that are placed alcohol, sugar, coffee, and tea. Again, says Dr.
Chambers,--"Not satisfied with the bare necessaries," (the common varieties of plastic and
calorifacient food,) "we find that our species chiefly are inclined by a soi-disant instinct
to feed on a variety of articles the use of which cannot be explained as above; they cannot
be found in the organism; they cannot, apparently, without complete disorganization, be employed
to build up the body. These may be considered as extra diet, or called accessory foods.....
These are what man does not want, if the protracting from day to day his residence on earth
be the sole object of his feeding. He could live without them, grow without them, think, after
a fashion, without them. A baby does. Would he be wise to try and imitate it?

"Thus, there is no question but that easily assimilable brown meat is the proper food for those
whose muscular system is subjected to the waste arising from hard exercise; and if plenty of
it is to be got, and the digestive organs are in sufficiently good order to absorb enough to
supply the demand, it completely covers the deficiency. Water, under these circumstances, is
the best drink; and a 'total abstainer,' with plenty of fresh meat, strong exercise, and a
vigorous digestion, will probably equal anybody in muscular development. But should the digestion
not be in such a typical condition, should the exercise be oversevere and the victuals deficient,
then the waste must be limited by some arrester of metamorphosis; if it is not, the system
suffers, and the man is what is called 'overworked.'.... Intellectual labor also exercises
the demand for food, and at the same time, unfortunately, injures the assimilating organs;
so that, unless a judicious diet is employed, waste occurs which cannot be replaced."

Waste, we may be told, is life, and the rapidity of change marks the activity of the vital
processes. True, if each particle consumed is at once and adequately replaced. Beyond that
point, let the balance once tend to over-consumption, and we approach the confines of decay.
Birds live more and faster than men, and insects probably most of all; yet many of the latter
are ephemeral.

Every-day experience had long pointed to the recurring coincidence, that, of the annual victims
of pulmonary consumption, few were to be found among the habitual consumers of ardent spirits.
Science volunteered the explanation, that alcohol supplied a hydro-carbonaceous nutriment similar
to that furnished by the cod-liver oil, which, serving as fuel, spared the wasting of the tissues,
just in proportion to its own consumption and assimilation. Other aid it was supposed to lend,
by stimulating the function of nutrition to renewed energy. Later investigations have proved
that it exercises a yet more important influence as an arrester of metamorphosis. It was on
arriving at this conclusion, that Dr. Böcker was led to institute a series of careful experiments
to determine the influence of water on the physical economy, and the real value of salt, sugar,
coffee, tea, and other condiments, as articles of food. "The experimenter appears to have used
the utmost precision, and details so conscientiously the mode adopted of making his estimates,
that additional knowledge may perhaps alter the conclusions drawn, but can never diminish the
value of the experiments." They are not open to the objections of mistaken sensations, and
honest, though ludicrous, misapprehension of fallible symptoms, to which the testing of drugs
homeopathically is liable, and of which another instance has just occurred in London, in the
"proving" of the new medicinal agent, gonoine. They rather resemble in accuracy a quantitative,
as well as a qualitative, analysis. We will cite first the experiments on tea, and quote from
the interesting narrative of Dr. Chambers.

"After Dr. Böcker had determined by some preliminary trials what quantity of food and drink
was just enough to satiate his appetite without causing loss of weight to his body,--that is
to say, was sufficient to cover exactly the necessary outgoings of the organism,--he proceeded
to special experiments, in which, during periods of twenty-four hours, he took the amount of
victuals ascertained by the former trials.

"The first set of the first series of experiments consists of seven observations, of twenty-four
hours' duration each, in the months of July and August, with three barely sufficient meals
per diem, in quantities as nearly equal each day as could be managed, and only spring-water
to drink. The second set comprises the same number of observations in August, September, and
October, under similar circumstances, except that infusion of tea, drunk cold, was taken instead
of plain water.

"Each day there are carefully recorded" qualitative and quantitative analyses of the excretions,--estimates
of "the amount of insensible perspiration, and of expired carbonic acid,--the quickness of
respiration,--the beats of the pulse,--together with accurate notes of the duration of bodily
exercise in the open air, the loss of weight of the whole body, the general feelings, and the
circumstances, thermometric, barometric, and meteoric, under which the observations are taken.

"A second series of seventeen experiments of equal duration were made, and at a different time
of year, so as to answer the question, which might arise, as to whether the season made any
difference."

In these experiments similar observations and records are made as previously, "under the three
following circumstances, namely: while taking tea as an ordinary drink, on the days immediately
following the leaving it off, and on other days when it was not taken."

"A third series, of four experiments, was also made during four fasts of thirty-six hours each--two
with water only, and two with tea to drink.

"In the following particulars, all the three series so entirely coincide, that the conclusions
will be set down as general deductions from the whole.

"Tea, in ordinary doses, has not any effect on the amount of carbonic acid expired, the frequency
of the respirations, or of the pulse."

Obviously, then, it is not with reference to the heat-producing function that we can look upon
tea as in any sense a nutriment; and if it causes no saving of carbon, its effects must be
sought in checking some other waste, or in the less consumption of nitrogen. The pulse, and
hence the respiration, are unaltered; for the two great processes of circulation and aëration
of the blood are interdependent functions, and have, in health, a definite ratio of activity
one with the other. As a nervous stimulant, tea in excess will, as we all know, produce an
exaltation of the action of the heart, amounting in some persons to a painful and irregular
palpitation. No such result seems to follow its moderate use.

"The loss by perspiration is limited by tea."  This seems, at first, contrary to common experience,
as the sensible perspiration produced by several cups of warm tea is a familiar fact to all
tea-drinkers. That this effect is wholly owing to the warmth of the mixture, it being drunk
usually in hot infusion or decoction, was pointed out long since by Cullen. Tea limits perspiration,
perhaps, by the astringent action of the tannin which it contains,--of which more hereafter.
What is saved by limiting perspiration? Water, largely; carbonic acid, in considerable amount;
ammonia (a nitrogenized substance;) salts of soda, potash and lime, and a trace of iron, all
in quantities minute, to be sure, but to be counted in the aggregate of arrest of metamorphosis.

But the great fact which establishes tea as an arrester of the change of tissue is, that its
use diminishes remarkably the amount of nitrogen thrown off by the excretions, specially destined
to remove that element, when in excess, from the system. "We have before called attention to
the fact, that an indispensable component of plastic food, by which alone the tissues are repaired,
is nitrogen. By a chemico-vital process, nitrogen builds up and is incorporated in the tissues.
Nitrogen, again, is one of the resulting components of the change of tissue. This element forms
a large part of the effete particles which are rejected on accumulation from such change or
waste. That a less amount is excreted by the tea-drinker, when similar quantities are ingested,
the weight and plumpness of the body remaining undiminished the while, is proof of the slower
change of tissue which takes place under the modifying influence of tea. The importance of
this effect we shall presently see.

"In the first series of experiments, the daily allowance of food, though less copious on the
tea days, was more nitrogenized, and nitrogen also was taken in as theine. Yet, in spite of
this, the quantity thrown off in twenty-four hours was nearly a gramme less than on the water
days. Still more strikingly is this shown in the days of complete fast, when pure spring-water
is seen to cause a greater loss of nitrogen than infusion of tea, in spite of the supply of
nitrogen contained in the latter. The difference also is seen to exist in spite of an increased
amount of bodily exercise."

As final deductions from these experiments, there result, first, "that, when the diet is sufficient,
the body is more likely to gain weight when tea is taken than when not"; second, "that, when
the diet is insufficient, tea limits very much the loss of weight thereby entailed."

A set of experiments made by Dr. Lehmann are parallel with these. They exhibit the effects
of coffee on the excretion of phosphorus, chloride of sodium, (common salt,) and nitrogen.
If less full than Dr. Böcker's, they appear to be equally accurate, and more complete in showing
the separate actions of the several constituents of coffee. It would be tedious to the general
reader to follow them in detail, and we shall avail ourselves of the brief resumé of Dr. Chambers.

"First,--Coffee produces on the organism two chief effects, which it is very difficult to connect
together,--namely, the raising the activity of the vascular and nervous systems, and protracting
remarkably the decomposition of the tissues. Second,--that it is the reciprocal modifications
of the specific actions of the empyreumatic oil and cafeine contained in the bean which call
forth the stimulant effects of coffee, and therefore those peculiarities of it which possess
importance in our eyes,--such as the rousing into new life the soul prostrated by exertion,
and especially the giving it greater elasticity, and attuning it to meditation, and producing
a general feeling of comfort. Third,--that the protraction of metamorphic decomposition which
this beverage produces in the body is chiefly caused by the empyreumatic oil, and that the
cafeine only causes it when it is taken in larger quantity than usual. Fourth,--that cafeine
(in excess) produces increased action of the heart, rigors, headache, a peculiar inebriation,
delirium, and so on. Fifth,--that the empyreumatic oil (in excess) causes perspirations, augmented
activity of the understanding, which may end in irregular trains of thought, restlessness,
and incapacity for sleep."

It follows that both the active elements of the coffee-berry are necessary to insure its grateful
effects,--that the volatile and odorous principle alone protracts decomposition,--and that
careful preparation in roasting and decocting are essential to secure the full benefits of
it as a beverage.

It would be difficult to overestimate the practical importance of these results. They raise
coffee and tea from the rank of stimulants to that of food,--from idle luxuries to real agents
of support and lengthening of life. Henceforth the economist can hear of their increasing consumption
without a regret. The poor may indulge in them, not as extravagant enjoyments, but practical
goods. The cup of tea, which is the sole luxury of their scanty meal, lessens the need for
more solid food; it satisfies the stomach, while it gladdens the heart. It saves them, too,
the waste of those nitrogenized articles of food which require so much labor and forethought
to procure. The flesh meats and the cereals, which contain the largest amounts of this requisite
of organic life, are always the dearest articles of consumption. Certainly it is not as positive
nutriment that we recommend the use of coffee and tea; for although they contain a relatively
large amount of nitrogen, that supply can be better taken in solid food. Their benefit is two-fold.
While they save more than enough of the waste of tissue to justify their use as economical
beverages, they supply a need of the nervous system of no small importance. They cheer, refresh,
and console. They thus fill a place in the wants of humanity which common articles of food
cannot, inasmuch as they satisfy the cravings of the spirit as well as of the flesh.

We have before attempted to show that the human race is liable to a peculiar and constant waste
from the development of the nervous system, and that the body has to answer for the labor of
the mind. At first thought, we shall find it difficult to appreciate the endless vigilance
and activity of the brain. Like the other organisms which possess a proper nervous system,
man carries on the common organic processes of life with a regularity and unfailing accuracy
which seem to verge on the mechanical forces, or to be, at least, automatic. All habitual voluntary
acts by repetition become almost automatic, or require no perceptibly distinct impulse of the
will. When we emerge from this necessary field of labor, we come to those functions peculiar
to the proper brain. Here all is continual action. Thought, imagination, will, the conflicting
passions, language, and even articulation, claim their first impulse from the nervous centre.
The idlest reverie, as well as the most profound study, taxes the brain. That distinguishing
attribute of man can almost never rest. In sleep, to be sure, we find a seeming exception.
Then only its inferior portion remains necessarily at work to supervise the breathing function.
Yet we know that we have often dreamed,--while we do not know how often we fail to recall our
dreams. The duality of the cerebrum may also furnish a means of rest in all trivial mental
acts. Still, the great demands of the mind upon the nervous tissues remain. And it is these
losses which may be peculiarly supplied by the nervous stimulants. Such are coffee and tea.
Common nutrition by common food, and particularly the adipose and phosphatic varieties, nourishes
nerve tissue, no doubt, as gluten and fibrine do muscle. But the stimulants satisfy temporarily
their pressing needs, and enable them to continue their labors without exhaustion. Reacting
again upon the rest of the body, they invigorate the processes of ordinary nutrition; for whatever
rests or stimulates the nerve proportionately refreshes and vitalizes the tissues which it
supplies.

It would be curious and well worth while to follow out the peculiar connection between the
use of coffee and the excretion of phosphorus, which has been before hinted at. Other experiments
of Dr. Böcker prove sugar to be a great saver of the phosphates, and hence of bone,--which
affords, at least, a very plausible reason for the instinctive fondness of children for sweets,
during the building portion of their lives.

In exhausting labors, long-continued exposure, and to insure wakefulness, the uses of coffee
and tea have long been practically recognized by all classes. The sailor, the trapper, and
the explorer value them even above alcohol; and in high latitudes we are assured of their importance
in bracing the system to resist the rigors of the Arctic winter.

There is of course, as in all human history, another side of this picture. Abuse follows closely
after use. The effects of the excessive employment of nervous stimulants in shaking the nerves
themselves, and in impairing digestion, are too familiar to need description. Yet even here
abuse is not followed by those terrible penalties which await the drunkard or the opium-eater.
Idiosyncrasy, too, may forbid their use; and this is not very rare. As strengtheners and comforters
of the average human system, however, they have no superiors, and none others are so largely used.

It is a little singular that the active principles of coffee and tea are probably identical,--no
more so, however, than the marvellous similarity of starch, gum, and sugar, or other chemical
wonders. They have been called cafeine and theine, respectively. They are azotized, and contain
quite a marked amount of nitrogen. Chemically, they consist of carbon 19, hydrogen 10, nitrogen
4, oxygen 4. Some allowance is therefore to be made for them as plastic food.

This peculiar principle (theine) is also found in the leaves of the Ilex Paraguayensis, or
Paraguay tea, used in South America, as a beverage.

  "Good black tea contains of theine from 2.00 to 2.13 per cent.
  Coffee-leaves contain of theine from  1.15 to 1.25 per cent.
  Paraguay tea contains of theine from    1.01 to 1.23 per cent.
  The coffee-berry a mean of              1.00         per cent.

"Besides the theine and the essential oils, which latter give the aroma of the plants, there
is contained in both coffee and tea a certain amount of difficultly soluble vegetable albumen,
and in the latter, especially, a large quantity of tannin. Roasting renders volatile the essential
oil of the coffee-berry. The tea-leaf, infused for a short time, parts with its essential oil,
and a small portion of alkaloid, (theine,) a good deal of which is thrown away with the grounds.
If it stands too long, or is boiled, more indeed is got out of it, but an astringent, disagreeable
drink is the result. The boiling of coffee extracts all its oil and alkaloid too, and, when
it is drunk with the grounds, allows the whole nutriment to be available. Even when strained,
it is clearly more economical than tea."

Roasted coffee is a powerful deodorizer, also. This fact is familiarly illustrated by its use
in bar-rooms; and it might be made available for other purposes.

The cost and vast consumption of coffee and tea have made the inducements to adulterate them
very great. The most harmless form, is the selling of coffee-grounds and old tea-leaves for
fresh coffee and tea. There is no security in buying coffee ready-ground; and we always look
at the neat little packages of it in the grocers' windows with a shudder. Beans and peas we
have certainly tasted in ground coffee. The most fashionable adulteration, and one even openly
vaunted as economical and increasing the richness of the beverage, is with the root of the
wild endive, or chicory. Roasted and ground, it closely resembles coffee. It contains, however,
none of the virtues of the latter, and has nothing to recommend it but its cheapness. The leaves
of the ash and the sloe are used to adulterate tea. They merely dilute its virtues, without
adding any that are worth the exchange.

The coffee-tree is a native of Ethiopia or Abyssinia. Bruce tells us that the nomad tribes
of that part of Africa carry with them, in crossing deserts on hostile expeditions, only balls
of pulverized roasted coffee mixed with butter. One of these as large as a billiard-ball keeps
them, they say, in strength and spirits during a whole day's fatigue, better than a loaf of
bread or a meal of meat. The Arabs gave the first written account of coffee, and first used
it in the liquid form. Burton, in his "Anatomy of Melancholy," mentions it as early as 1621.

The coffee-tree reaches a height of from six to twelve feet, and when fully grown much resembles
the apple-tree. Its leaves are green all the year; and in almost all seasons, blossoms and
green and ripe fruit may be seen on the same tree at the same time. When the blossom falls,
there springs from it a small fruit, green at first, red when ripe, and under its flesh, instead
of a stone, is the bean or berry we call coffee. "It has but recently become known by Europeans
that the leaves of the coffee-plant contain the same essential principle for which the berries
are so much valued. In Sumatra, the natives scarcely use anything else. The leaves are cured
like tea. And the tree will produce leaves over a much larger habitat than it will berries."
Should the decoction of the leaves prove as agreeable as that of the berry, we shall have a
much cheaper coffee; though it remains to be proved that they contain the essential oil as
well as the cafeine.

The coffees of Java, Ceylon, and Mocha are most esteemed. The quantities produced are quite
limited. Manila and Arabia together give less than 4,500 tons. Cuba yields 5,000 tons per annum;
St. Domingo, 18,000; Ceylon and the British East Indies, 16,000; Java, 60,000; and Brazil,
142,000. Yet, in 1774, a Franciscan friar, named Villaso, cultivated a single coffee-tree in
the garden of the convent of San Antonio, in Brazil. In the estimates for 1853, we find that
Great Britain consumes 17,500 tons; France, 21,500; Germany, (Zollverein), 58,000; and the
United States, about 90,000 tons. It is worth remarking how small is the comparative consumption
of tea in France. The importation of tea for 1840 was only 264,000 kilogrammes (less than 600,000
pounds).

In Asia, coffee is drunk in a thick farinaceous mixture. With us the cup of coffee is valued
by its clearness. We generally drink it with sugar and milk. The French with their meals use
it as we do,--but after dinner, invariably without milk (café noir). And we would suggest to
the nervous and the dyspeptic, who do not want to resign the luxury of coffee, or to whom its
effects as an arrester of metamorphosis are beneficial, that when drunk on a full stomach its
effects upon the nerves are much less felt than when taken fasting or with the meals.

In the consumption of tea the United States rank next to Great Britain. Tea is the chief import
from China into this country. The tea-plant flourishes from the equator to the forty-fifth
parallel of latitude; though it grows best between the twenty-third and the twenty-fifth parallels.
Probably it can be successfully cultivated in our Southern States. Mr. Fortune considers that
all varieties of tea are derived from the same plant. Other authorities say that there are
two species, the green and the black,--Thea viridis and Thea Bohea. This point is yet unsettled.
Tea is grown in small, shrub-like plantations, resembling vineyards. As it is a national beverage,
certain localities are as much valued for choice varieties as are the famous vintage-hills
and slopes of Southern France. The buds and the leaves are used; and there are three harvestings,--in
February, April, and June. The young, unfolded buds of February furnish the "Youi" and "Soumlo,"
or "Imperial Teas." These are the delicate "Young Hysons" which we are supposed to buy sometimes,
but most of which are consumed by the Mandarins. Souchong, Congo, and Bohea mark the three
stages of increasing size and coarseness in the leaves. Black tea is of the lowest kind, with
the largest leaves. In gathering the choicer varieties, we are told on credible authority that
"each leaf is plucked separately; the hands are gloved; the gatherer must abstain from gross
food, and bathe several times a day." Many differences in the flavor and color of green and
black teas are produced by art. Mr. Fortune says of green tea, that "it has naturally no bloom
on the leaf, and a much more natural color. It is dyed with Prussian blue and gypsum. Probably
no bad effects are produced. There is no foundation for the suspicion that green tea owes its
verdure to an inflorescence acquired from plates of copper on which it is curled or dried.
The drying-pans are said to be invariably of sheet-iron." We drink our tea with milk or sugar,
or both, and always in warm infusion. In Russia, it is drunk cold,--in China, pure; in Ava,
it is used as a pickle preserved in oil.

It would be improper not to notice, finally, the moral effect of coffee- and tea-drinking.
How much resort to stronger stimulants these innocent beverages prevent can be judged only
by the weakness of human nature and the vast consumption of both.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEN OF THE SEA.

When the little white-headed country-boy of an inland farmstead lights upon a book which shapes
his course in life, five times out of six the volume of his destiny will turn out to be "Robinson
Crusoe." That wonderful fiction is one of the servants of the sea,--a sort of bailiff, which
enters many a man's house and singles out and seizes the tithe of his flock. Or rather, cunning
old De Foe,--like Odusseus his helmet, wherewith he detected the disguised Achilles among the
maids-of-honor,--by his magic book, summons to the service of the sea its predestined ones.
Why is it, but from a difference in blood and soul, that the sea gets its own so surely? The
farmer's sons grow up about the fireside, do chores together, together range the woods for
squirrels, woodchucks, chestnuts, and sassafras, go to the same "deestrick-school," and succeed
to the same ambitions and hopes. Reuben, the first-born, comes in due time to the care of the
paternal acres and oxen. Simeon, Dan, Judah, Benjamin, and the rest, grow up and emigrate to
Western clearings. Levi, it may be, pale, thoughtful Levi, sees other fields "white to harvest,"
and struggles up through a New England academy- and college-education, to find a seat in the
lecture-rooms of Andover, and to hope for a pulpit hereafter. But Joseph, the pet and pride
of the household,--what becomes of him? Unlucky little duck! why could he not go "peeping"
at the heels of the maternal parent with his brother and sister biddies? Why must he be born
with webbed toes, and run at once to the wash-tub, there to make nautical experiments with
walnut-shells?

I know why the boys of a seaport-town take kindly to the water. All the birds of the shore
are something marine, and their table-flavor is apt to be fishy. We youngsters, who were rocked
to sleep with the roar of the surf in our ears,--one wall of whose play-room was colored in
blue edged with white, in striking contrast with the peaceful green of the three other sides,--who
have many a night lain warm in bed and listened to the distant roll of a sea-chorus and the
swinging tramp of a dozen jolly blue-jackets,--we whose greatest indulgence was a sail with
Old Card, the boatman par excellence,--we who knew ships, as the farmer's boy knows his oxen,
before we had mastered the multiplication-table,--it is not strange that we should take kindly
to salt water. So, too, all along the lovely "fiords" of Maine, in the villages which cluster
about the headlands of Essex, in the brown and weather-mossed cottages which dot the white
sands of Cape Cod, by the southern shore of Long Island, wherever the sea and the land meet,
the boy grows up drawing into his lungs the salt air, which passes in Nature's mysterious alchemy
into his blood, so that he can never wholly disown his birthright. But what is it that draws
from the remote inland the predestinate children of the deep?

Poor little Joseph! he tries to slip along with the others; but when the holiday comes, instinct
takes him straight to the mill-pond, there to construct forbidden rafts and adventure contraband
voyages. The best-worn page of his Malte-Brun Geography is that which treats the youthful student
to a packet-passage to England. He can tell the names of all islands, capes, and bays; but
ask him the boundaries of Bohemia or Saxony, the capitals of Western States, and down he goes
to the foot of the class. Thus it continues awhile, till, after a fracas at school, or a neglected
duty on the farm, or similar severance of the bonds of home, Master Joe may be seen trudging
along the dusty seaport-highway, in a passion of tears, but with a resolute heart, and an ever-deepening
conviction that he must go on, and not back.

Then there is another class,--the poetical, dreamy adventurer, to whom the sea beckons in every
white Undine that rises along the beaches of a moonlight night, to whom it calls in that mournful
and magic undertone heard only by those who love and listen. These do not often run away to
go to sea; they prefer to voyage genteelly in yachts or packet-ships, and, if the impulse be
very strong, will get a commission in the navy. However, if circumstances compel a Tapleyan
"coming out strong," they will sometimes face their work, and that right nobly; for there is
nowhere that gentle blood so tells as at sea. The utter absence of all sham or room for sham
brings out true and noble qualities as well as mean and selfish ones. For ordinary work, one
man's muscle is as good as another's. It is only when the time of trial comes,--when the volunteers
are called to man the boat that is to venture through the wild seas to pick off the crew of
a foundering wreck,--"when the jerking, slatting sail overhead must be got in somehow," though
topmast and yard and sail may go any minute,--when the quailing mate or frightened captain
dares not order men to all but certain death, and still less dares to lead,--then it is, when
the lives of all hang on the heroism of one, that the good blood will assert itself.

Then there is the class who are sent to sea,--scapegraces all. The alternative is not unfrequently
the one of which Dr. Johnson chose the other side. The Doctor being sans question a landsman,
he never saw, we warrant, any resemblance to fore and main and mizzen in the three spires of
Litchfield. But the Doctor, not being a scamp, was not compelled to choose. Many another is
not so well off. Like little boys who are sent to school, they learn what they learn from pretty
much the same motive. Sometimes they turn out good and gallant men; but not often does it reform
a man who is unfit for the shore to dispatch him to sea. If there are any vices he does not
carry with him, they are commonly to be had dog- and dirt-cheap at the first port his ship makes.

Then, last of all, there is a large and increasing class who get to sea. They fall into the
calling, they cannot tell how; they continue in it, they cannot tell why. Some have friends
who would rescue them, if they could; others have no friend, no home, no nationality even,
the pariahs of the sea, sullen, stupid, and broken-down, burnt-out shells of men, which the
belaying-pin of some brutal or passionate mate crushes into sudden collapse, or which the hospital
duly consigns to the potter's field.

There is a popular idea of the sailor, which, beginning at the lowest note of the gamut, with
the theatrical and cheap-novelist mariner, runs up its do-re-mi with authors, preachers, public
speakers, reformers, and legislators, but always in the wrong key. There is no use in making
up an ideal of any class; but if you must have one, let it be of an extinct class. It does
not much harm to construct horrible plesiosaurians from the petrified scales we dig out of
a coal-mine or chalk-pit; but when it comes to idealizing the sea-serpent, who winters at the
Cape Verds and summers at Nahant, it is a serious matter. For the love of Agassiz, give us
true dimensions or none.

So, too, fancy Greeks and Romans may be ever preferable to the true Aristophanic or Juvenalian
article,--imaginary Cavaliers or Puritans not at all hard to swallow,--but ideal sailors, why
in the world must we bear them, when we can get the originals so cheaply? When the American
"Beggar's Opera" was put upon the stage, "Mose" stepped forward, the very impersonation of
the Bowery. If it was low, it was at least true, a social fact. But the stage sailor is not
as near probability as even the stage ship or the theatrical ocean. He is a relic of the past,--a
monstrous compound out of the imperfect gleanings of the Wapping dramatists of the last century.
Yet all those who deal with this character of the sailor begin upon the same false notion.
In their eyes the seaman is a good-natured, unsophisticated, frank, easy-going creature, perfectly
reckless of money, very fond of his calling, unhappy on shore, manly, noble-hearted, generous
to a degree inconceivable to landsmen. He is a child who needs to be put in leading-strings
the moment he comes over the side, lest he give way to an unconquerable propensity of his to
fry gold watches and devour bank-notes, à la sandwich, with his bread and butter.

With this theory in view, all sorts of nice schemes are set forward for the sailor, and endless
are the dull and decorous substitutes for the merriment or sociability of his favorite boarding-house,
and wonderful are the schemes which are to attract the nautical Hercules to choose the austere
virtue and neglect the rollicking and easy-going vice. Beautiful on paper, admirable in reports,
pathetic in speeches,--all pictorial with anchors and cables and polar stars, with the light-house
of Duty and the shoals of Sin. But meanwhile the character of the merchant-marine is daily
deteriorating. More is done for the sailor now by fifty times than was done fifty years ago;
yet who will compare the crews of 1858 with those of 1808?

There are many reasons for this change, and one is Science. That which always makes the rich
richer and the poor poorer, and which can be made to restore the lost equilibrium in a higher
civilization only by the strong pressure of an enlightened Christianity, has been at work upon
the sea. Columbus sailed out of Palos in a very different looking craft from the "Great Republic."
The Vikings had small knowledge of taking a lunar, and of chronometers set by Greenwich time.
Sir Humphrey Gilbert, when he so gallantly and piously reminded his crew that "heaven was as
near by sea as on land," was sitting in the stern of a craft hardly so large as the long-boat
of a modern merchantman. Yet the modern time does not give us commanders such as were of old,
still less such seamen. Science has robbed the sea of its secret,--is every day bearing away
something of the old difficulties and dangers which made the wisest head and the strongest
arm so dear to their fellows, which gave that inexpressible sense of brotherhood. Science has
given us the steamship,--it has destroyed the sailor. The age of discovery is closing with
this century. Up to the limits of the ice-fields, every shore is mapped out, every shoal sounded.
Not only does Science give the fixed, but she is even transferring to her charts the variable
features of the deep,--the sliding current, the restless and veering wind.

The personal qualities which were once needed for the sea-service are fast passing away. The
commander or the master needs no longer to lean upon his men, or they to trust in him. He wants
drudges, not shipmates,--obedient, active drudges,--men who can be drilled to quick execution
of duty, even as in a machine the several parts. The navy is manned after this pattern; but
there is a touchstone which sharpens the edge dulled with routine,--the touchstone of war.
When the time comes that the drum-tap calls to quarters, and the decks are strewn with sand,--when
with silence as of the grave, fore and aft, the frigate moves stately and proud into the line
of her adversaries' fire, then it is that the officer and the man meet face to face, and the
awful truth of battle compels them to own their common brotherhood. The merchant-service has
few such exigencies. The greater the size of the ship, the greater the number of the crew.
The system of shipping-offices and outfitters breaks up almost all the personal contact between
master and men. They come on board at the hour of sailing. A gang of riggers, stevedores, or
lightermen work the vessel into the stream. A handful of boosy wretches are bundled into the
forecastle, and as many more rolled, dead-drunk, into their bunks, to sleep off their last
spree. The mates are set to the task of dragooning into order the unruly mass. Half the men
have spent their advance, and mean to run as soon as the ship arrives. They intend to do as
little as they can,--to "soger," and shirk, and work against the ship all they can. The captain
cares only to make a quick passage and get what he can out of the crew. Community of interest
there is none. Brutal authority is pitted against sullen discontent.

In the old days of the little white-headed farmer's boy's dreams, there were discovery and
trading-ships sailing into unknown seas, and finding fairy islands never visited before. There
were savages to trade with,--to fight with, it might be. There were a thousand perils and adventures
that called for all the manly and ennobling qualities both of generous command and loyal obedience.
It was a point of honor to stick by ship and captain while ship and captain remained to stick
by; for the success of a voyage depended on such mutual trust and help. But now where is the
sea's secret? There is hardly a square league of water which has not been sailed over. Find
an island large enough to land a goat upon, and you will find it laid down in the charts,--and,
if it be only far enough south, a Stonington sealer at anchor under its lee, or a New Bedford
whaler's crew ashore picking up drift-wood. Where are the old dangers of the sea? We are fast
learning to calculate for the storms, and to run from them. Steam-frigates have ended forever
the pirates of the Spanish Main. The long, low, black schooner, which could sail dead to windward
through the pages of the cheap "yellow-covers," and the likeness of which sported its skull
and crossbones on the said covers, is to be met with nowhere else. Neither the Isle of Pines
nor the numberless West India keys know her or her romantic commander any more.

The relations of trade, too, have changed with the changes of Science. We were once gathered
with the group of travellers who are wont to smoke the cigar of peace beside the pilot-house
of one of our noble Sound steamers. As we rounded the Battery and sped swiftly up the East
River, the noblest avenue of New York, lined with the true palaces of her merchant-princes,--an
avenue which by its solid and truthful architecture half atones for the flimsiness of its land
structures,--as we passed the ocean steamships lying at the "Hook," the sea-captains about
me began to talk of the American triumphs of speed. "They say to the Englishmen now," said
one, "that we're going to take the berths out of the 'Pacific.'" (She had just made the then
crack passage.) "When the English fellows ask, 'What for?'--they say, 'Because Collins intends
to run her for a day-boat.'" This extravaganza raised a laugh; but one of the older brethren
shook his head solemnly and sadly. "It's all very well," said he; "but what with a steamer
twice a week, and your telegraph to New Orleans, they know what's going on at Liverpool as
well as if they were at Prince's Dock. It don't pay now to lay a week alongside the levee on
the chance of five cents for cotton."

It was a text that suggested a long homily. The shipmaster was degraded from his old position
of the merchant's friend, confidential agent, and often brother-merchant. He was to become
a mere conductor, to take the ship from port to port. No longer identified with the honor and
success of a great and princely house, with the old historic kings of the Northwest Coast,
or of Canton, or of Calcutta, he sinks into a mere navigator, and a smuggler of Geneva watches
or Trench embroideries.

We state facts. Thus much has Science done to deteriorate the men of the sea. It has robbed
them of all the noblest parts of their calling. It has taken away the spirit of adventure,
the love of enterprise, and the manly spirit which braved unknown dangers. It has destroyed
their interest by its new-modelling of trade; it has divided labor, and is constantly striving
to solve the problem, How to work a ship without requiring from the sailor any courage or head-work,
or anything, in short, but mere muscle. It interferes with the healthful relations of officer
and man. The docks of Liverpool are a magnificent work, but they necessitate the driving of
the seaman from his ship into an atmosphere reeking with pollution. The steam-tugs of New York
are a wonderful convenience, but they help to further many a foul scheme of the Cherry-Street
crimps and land-sharks.

For all this Science owes a remedy. It must be in a scientific way. We have indicated some
of the leading causes of the decline of the seaman's character. The facts are very patent.
Step into any shipping-office, or consult any sea-captain of your acquaintance, and you will
have full evidence of what we say.

The remedy must not be outside the difficulty. You may build "Bethels" into which the sailor
won't come, and "Homes" where he won't stay, distribute ship-loads of tracts, and scatter Bibles
broadcast, but you will still have your work to do. The Bethel, the Home, and the Bible are
all right, but they are for the shore, and the sailor's home is on the sea. It points an address
prettily, no doubt, to picture a group of pious sailors reading their Bibles aloud of a Sunday
afternoon, and entertaining each other with profound theological remarks, couched in hazy nautical
language. But what is the real truth of the case? It may be a ship close-hauled, with Cape
Horn under her lee,--all hands on deck for twelve hours,--sleet, snow, and storm,--the slide
over the forecastle hatchway,--no light below by which to make out a line even of the excellent
type of the American Bible Society, and on deck a gale blowing that would take the leaves bodily
out of any book short of a fifteenth-century folio,--this, with the men now reefing and now
shaking out topsails and every other thing, as the gale rages or lulls, in the hope of working
to windward of certain destruction.

The remedy, to be effectual, must touch the seaman's calling. It is of no use to appeal to
his better nature, if he hasn't any. If you make a drudge and a beast of him, you can't do
him much good by preaching at him. The working of the present system is, that there are afloat
a set of fellows who are a sort of no-countrymen. Like the beach-combers of the Pacific, they
have neither country, home, nor friends, and are as different from the old class of American
sailors as the condottiere from the loyal soldier. Let the navigation-laws be enforced first
of all, and see that the due proportion of the crews of every ship be native-born. Let the
custom-house protections be no longer the farce they are,--where a man who talks of "awlin
haft the main tack" is set down as a native of Martha's Vineyard, and his messmate, who couldn't
say "peas" without betraying County Cork, is permitted to hail from the interior of Pennsylvania.
Let the ship-owners combine (it is for their interest) to do away with the whole body of shipping-agents,
middlemen, and land-sharks. Jack will take his pleasure ashore,--you can't help that; and perhaps
so would you, Sir, after six months of "old horse" and stony biscuit, with a leaky forecastle
and a shorthanded crew. Jack will take his pleasure, and that in ways we may all of us object
to; but, for Heaven's sake, break up a system of which the whole object is to degrade the man
into the mere hack of a set of shore harpies. Do not leave him in the hands of those whom you
are now permitting to combine with you to clear him out as swiftly as possible, and then dispatch
him to sea. Let the captains ship their own crews on board the ship, and do away with the system
of advances. But, at any rate, do learn to treat the sailor as if he were not altogether a
fool. He has sense, plenty of it, shrewd, strong, common sense, and more real gentlemanly feeling
than we on shore generally suppose, a good deal of faith, and certain standing principles of
sea-morality. But at the same time he has prejudices and whims utterly unaccountable to men
living on shore. He will forfeit one or two hundred dollars of wages to run from a ship and
captain with which he can find no fault. He will ship the next day in a worse craft for smaller
wages. You cannot understand his impulses and moods and grievances till you see them from a
forecastle point of view.

It may be that Science will solve the riddle by casting aside the works and improvements of
a thousand years,--the "wave line," the spar, the sail, and all,--and with them the men of
the sea. It may be that "Leviathans" will march unheedingly through the mountain waves,--that
steam and the Winans's model will obliterate old inventions and labors and triumphs. Blake
and Raleigh and Frobisher and Dampier may be known no more. The poetry and the mystery of the
sea may perish altogether, as they have in part. Out of the past looks a bronzed and manly
face; along the deck of a phantom-ship swings a square and well-knit form. I hear, in memory,
the ring of his cheerful voice. I see his alert and prompt obedience, his self-respecting carriage,
and I know him for the man of the sea, who was with Hull in the "Constitution" and Porter in
the "Essex." I look for him now upon the broad decks of the magnificent merchantmen that lie
along the slips of New York, and in his place is a lame and stunted, bloated and diseased wretch,
spiritless, hopeless, reckless. Has he knowledge of a seaman's duty? The dull sodden brain
can carry the customary orders of a ship's duty, but more than that it cannot. Has he hopes
of advancement? His horizon is bounded by the bar and the brothel. A dog's life, a dog's berth,
and a dog's death are his heritage.

The old illusion still prevails and has power over little towheaded Joseph on the Berkshire
interval. It will not prevail much longer. It is fast yielding to the power of facts. The Joes
of next year may run from home in obedience to the planetary destiny which casts their horoscope
in Neptune, but they will not run to the forecastle. We shall have officers and men of a different
class,--the Spartan on the quarter-deck, the Helot in the forecastle. We have it now. A story
of brutal wrong on shipboard startles the public. A mutiny breaks out in the Mersey, and a
mate is beaten to death, and we wonder why the service is so demoralized. The story could be
told by a glance at the names upon the shipping-papers. The officers are American,--the men
are foreigners, blacks, Irish, Germans, non-descripts, but hopelessly severed from the chances
of the quarter-deck. The law may interpose a strong arm, and keep the officer from violence,
the men from mutiny. We may enact a Draconian code which shall maintain a sullen and revengeful
order upon the seas, but all fellowship and mutual helpfulness are gone. When the day of trial
comes,--the wreck, the fire, the leak,--subordination is lost, and every man scrambles for
his own selfish safety, leaving women and children to the flames and the waves. Why is it that
ships, dismasted, indeed, but light and staunch, are so often found rolling abandoned on the
seas? It is the daily incident of our marine columns. I have been told by an old shipmaster,
how, when he was a young mate, his ship was dismasted on the Banks of Newfoundland, on a voyage
to Europe. The captain had been disabled and the vessel was leaking. He came into command.
But in those days men never dreamed of leaving their ship till she was ready to leave them.
They rigged jury-masts, and, under short canvas and working at the pumps, brought their craft
to the mouth of Plymouth Harbor. The pilot demanded salvage, and was refused leave to come
on board. The mate had been into that port before, was a good seaman and a sharp observer,
and he took his vessel safely to her anchorage himself, rather than burden his owners with
a heavy claim. Captains and mates will not now-a-days follow that lead, because they cannot
trust their men, because with every emergency the morale of the forecastle is utterly gone.

For all this there is of course no universal panacea. Nor do I believe that legislation will
much help the matter. The common-law of the seas, well carried out by competent courts of admiralty,
is better than many statutes. For emergencies require extraordinary powers and a wide discretion.
There can be no divided rule in a ship. But if every man know his place and his duty, and none
overstep it, there will come thereof successful and happy voyages. There must be discipline,
subordination, and law. The republican theory stops with the shore. "Obey orders, though you
break owners," is the Magna Charta of the main. This can be well and wisely carried out only
with some homogeneity of the ship's company, with a community of feeling and a community of
interest. Everybody who has been off soundings knows, or ought to know, the difference between
things "done with a will" and "sogering." If it be important on land to adjust the relations
of employer and employed, it is doubly important on the sea, where the peril and the privation
are great. For it is a hard life, a life of unproductive toil, that oftenest shows no results
while accomplishing great ends. It cannot be made easy. The gale and the lee-shore are the
same as when the sea-kings of old dared them and did battle with them in the heroic energy
of their old Norse blood. The wet, the cold, the exposure must be, since you cannot put a Chilson's
furnace into a ship's forecastle, nor wear India-rubbers and carry an umbrella when you go
aloft. But men will brave all such discomforts and the attendant perils with a hearty delight,
if you will train up the right spirit in them. Better the worst night that ever darkened off
Hatteras, than the consumption-laden atmosphere of the starving journeyman-tailor's garret,
the slow inhalation of pulverized steel with which the needle-maker draws his every breath!
The sea's work makes a man, and leaves him with his duty nobly done, a man at the last. Courage,
loyal obedience, patient endurance, the abnegation of selfishness,--these are the lessons the
sea teaches. Why must the shore make such diabolical haste and try such fiendish ingenuity
to undo them? The sea is pure and free, the land is firm and stable,--but where they meet,
the tide rises and falls, leaving a little belt of sodden mud, of slippery, slimy weeds, where
the dead refuse of the sea is cast up to rot in the hot sun. Something such is the welcome
the men of the sea get from that shore which they serve. Into this Serbonian bog between them
and us we let them flounder, instead of building out into their domain great and noble piers
and wharves, upon which they can land securely and come among us.

Some years ago, a young scholar was led to step forth from his natural sphere into the forecastle
of a merchantman. No quarrel with the world, no romantic fancy, drove him thither, but a plain
common-sense purpose. He saw what he saw fairly, and he has told the tale in a volume which,
for picturesque clearness, vigor, and manly truthfulness, will scarcely find its equal this
side the age of Elizabeth. He owed it to the sea, for the sea gave him health, self-reliance,
and fearlessness, and that persistent energy which saved him from becoming that which elegant
tastes and native refinement make of too many of our young men, a mere literary or social dilettante,
and raised him up to be a champion of right, a chivalrous defender of the oppressed, whose
name has honored his calling. His book was an effort in the right direction. By that we of
the land were brought nearer to those to whom this country owes so much, its merchant-seamen.
But we want more than the work, however noble, of one man. We want the persistent and Christian
interest in the elevation of the seaman of every man who is connected with his calling. We
do not want a Miss-Nancyish nor Rosa-Matildan sentimentalism, but a good, earnest, practical
handling of the matter. We call our merchants princes. If wealth and lavish expenditure make
the prince, they are, indeed, fit peers of Esterhazy or Lichtenstein. But the true princely
heart looks after the humblest of its subjects. When the poor of Lyons were driven from their
homes by the flooded Rhone, Louis Napoleon urged his horse breast-deep into the tide to see
with his own eyes that his people were thoroughly rescued. The merchant whose clippers have
coined him gold should spare more than a passing thought upon the men who hung over the yards
and stood watchful at the wheel. England's earls can afford to look after the toiling serfs
in their collieries; the patricians of New York and Boston might read as startling a page as
ever darkened a Parliamentary Blue-book, with a single glance into Cherry and Ann Streets.

For a thousand years the Anglo-Saxon race has been sending its contributions to the nation
of the Men of the Sea. Ever since the Welshman paddled his coracle across Caernarvon Bay, and
Saxon Alfred mused over the Danish galley wrecked upon his shore, each century has been adding
new names of fame to the Vikings' bead-roll. Is the list full? has Valhalla no niche more for
them? and must the men of the sea pass away forever? If it must be so,--it must. Che sarà sarà.
But if there is no overruling Fate in this, but only the working of casual causes, it is somebody's
care that they be removed. In almost all handicrafts and callings the last thirty years have
wrought a vast and rapid deterioration of the men who fill them. Machinery, the boasted civilizer,
is the true barbarizer. The sea has not escaped. Its men are not what the men of old were.
The question is, Can we let them go?--can they be dispensed with among the elements of national
greatness?

Passing fair is Venice, but she sits in lonely widowhood in the deserted Adriatic. Amalfi crouches
under her cliffs in the shame of her poverty. The harbors of Tyre and Carthage are lonesome
pools. They tell their own story. When the men of the sea no longer find a home or a welcome
on the shore,--when they are driven to become the mere hirelings who fight the battles of commerce,
like other hirelings they will serve beneath the flag where the pay and the provant are most
abundant. The vicissitudes of traffic are passing swift in these latter days; and it does not
lie beyond the reach of a possible future that the great commercial capitals of the Atlantic
coast may be called to pause in their giddy race, even before they have rebuilded the Quarantine
Hospital, or laid the capstone of the pharos of Minot's Ledge.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHICADEE.

  The song-sparrow has a joyous note,
    The brown thrush whistles bold and free;
  But my little singing-bird at home
      Sings a sweeter song to me.

  The cat-bird, at morn or evening, sings
    With liquid tones like gurgling water;
  But sweeter by far, to my fond ear,
      Is the voice of my little daughter.

  Four years and a half since she was born,
    The blackcaps piping cheerily,--
  And so, as she came in winter with them,
      She is called our Chicadee.

  She sings to her dolls, she sings alone,
    And singing round the house she goes,--
  Out-doors or within, her happy heart
      With a childlike song o'erflows.

  Her mother and I, though busy, hear,--
    With mingled pride and pleasure listening,--
  And thank the inspiring Giver of song,
      While a tear in our eye is glistening.

  Oh! many a bird of sweetest song
    I hear, when in woods or meads I roam;
  But sweeter by far than all, to me,
      Is my Chicadee at home.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ILLUSTRIOUS OBSCURE.

A SECOND LETTER FROM PAUL POTTER, OF NEW YORK, TO THE DON ROBERTO WAGONERO, COMMORANT OF WASHINGTON,
IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

22,728, Five Hundred and Fifty-First St., } New York, June 1, 1858.                   }

Dear Don Bobus,--I see that you have been Christian enough to send my last letter to "The Atlantic
Monthly," and that the editors of that famous work have confirmed my opinion of their high
taste by printing it. Your disposition of my MSS. I do not quarrel with; although it must be
regarded in law as an illegal liberty, inasmuch as the Court of Chancery has decided that a
man does not part with property in his own letters merely by sending them; but I ask permission
to hint that your conduct will acquire a certain graceful rotundity, if you will remit to me
in current funds the munificent sum of money which the whole-souled and gentlemanly proprietors--pardon
the verbal habits of my humble calling!--have without doubt already remitted to you. Pecunia
prima quaerenda, virtus post nummos. Mind you, I do not expect to be as well paid as Sannazarius.

"Who the deuse was he?" I hear you growling.

My dear Iberian friend, I really thought that you knew everything; but I find that you have
set up for an Admirable Crichton upon an inadequate capital. Know, then, that a great many
years ago Sannazarius--never mind who he was,--I do not justly know, myself--wrote an hexastich
on the city of Venice, and sent it to the potent Senators of that moist settlement. It was
as follows:--

  "Viderat Adriacis Venetam Neptunus in undis
    Stare urbem et toti ponere jura mari.
  Nunc mihi Tarpeias quantumvis, Jupiter, arces,
    Objice, et ilia tui moenia Martis, ait;
  Sic Pelago Tibrim praefers; urbem aspice utramque,
    Illam homines dices, hanc posuisse deos."

Which may be liberally rendered thus:--

  When sea-faring Neptune saw Venice well-founded
    And stiffly coercing the Adrian main,
  The jolly tar cried, in a rapture unbounded:
    "Why, d--ash my eyes, Jove, but I have you again;
  You may boast of your city, and Mars of his walling;
    But while I'm afloat, I'll stick to it that mine
  Beats yours into rope-yarn in spite of your bawling,
    Just as snuffy old Tiber is flogged by the brine;
  And he who the difference cannot discern
  Is a lob-sided lubber from bowsprit to stern.

"Very free, indeed!" you will say. It might have been worse, if I had staid at college a year
or two longer, or if I had been elevated to a place in the Triennial Catalogue,--thus:

  PAULUS POTTER, LL.D., S.T.D.; Barat.
  V. Gubernator, Lit. Hum. Prof.,
  e Cong., Praeses Rerumpub. Foed., A.B.
  Yal., M.D. Dart., D.D. Dart., P.D.
  V. Mon., etc., etc., etc.

I have put myself down stelliger, because it is certain, that, after obtaining all the above
honors, if not an inmate of the cold and silent tomb, I should be false to my duties as a member
of society, and a nuisance to my fellow-creatures. The little anachronism of translating after
being translated you will also pardon; and talking of the tomb, let us return to Sannazarius.
I pray that your nicely noble nose may not be offended by the tarry flavor of my version. You
will find the Latin in Howell's "Survey of Venice," 1651,--a book so thoroughly useless, and
so scarce withal, that I am sure it must be in your library. By the way, as you have written
travels in all parts of this and other worlds, without so much as stirring from your arm-chair,
and have calmly and coolly published the same, I must quote to you the rebuke of Howell, who
says, "He would not have adventured upon the remote, outlandish subject, had he not bin himself
upon the place; had he not had practicall conversation with the people of whom he writes."
This veracious person very properly dedicated his book to the saints in Parliament assembled,
many of whom had, soon after, ample leisure for perusing the fat folio. Nor is it perfectly
certain that you have read the book, although you may own it; since it is your sublime pleasure
to collect books like Guiccardini's History, which somebody went to the galleys rather than
read through.

But let us return, my dear Bobus, to the money question. Know, then, that the Sannazarian performance
above quoted, so different from the language of the malignant and turbaned Turks, filled with
rapture the first Senator and the second Senator and all the other Senators mentioned in Act
I., Scene 3, of "Othello," so that, in grand committee, and, for all I know to the contrary,
with Brabantio in the chair, they voted to the worthy author a reward of three hundred zechins,
or, to state it cambistically in our own beloved Columbian currency, $1,233.20,--this being
the highest literary remuneration upon record, if we except the untold sums lavished by "The
New York Blotter" upon the fascinating author of "Steel and Strychnine; or, the Dagger and
the Bowl." But as we have had enough of Sannazarius, let us leave him with the gentle hope
that his check was cashed in specie at the Rialto Bank, and that he made a good use of the money.

Now, dear Don, in the great case of Virtue vs. Money, I appear for the defendant. Confound
Virtue, say I, and the whole tribe of the Virtuous! I am as weary of both as was that sensible
Athenian of hearing Aristides called The Just; and if I had been there, and a legal voter,
I know into which box my humble oyster-shell would have been plumped. Such was the vile, self-complacent
habit of the Athenians, that I suspect the best fellows then were not good fellows at all.
And what did the son of Lysimachus make by being recalled from banishment? He died so poor,
that he was buried at the public charge, and left a couple of daughters as out-door pensioners
upon public charity. The Athenians, I aver, were a duncified race; and it would have pleased
me hugely to have been in the neighborhood when Alcibiades rescinded his dog's charming tail,--a
fine practical protest, although unpleasant to the dog. Virtue may be well enough by way of
variety; but for a good, steady, permanent pleasure, commend me to Avarice! Yes, O my Bobus,
I, who was once, as to money, "still in motion of raging waste," and, like Timon, "senseless
of expense,"--I, who have many a time borrowed cash of you with amiable recklessness, and have
never asked you to take it back again,--I, who have had many a race with the constable, and
have sometimes been overtaken,--I, who have in my callow days spoken disrespectfully of Mammon
in several charming copies of verses,--I am waxing sordid. I am for the King of Lydia against
Solon. How do I know that the insolent Cyras was not blandished out of his bloodthirsty intention
of roasting his deposed brother by a little cash which the son of Gyges had saved out of the
wide, weltering wreck of his wealth, and had concealed in his boots? Royal palms were not wholly
free from pruritus even then. Why has this silly world still persisted in putting long ears
upon Midas? I do not know whether he sang better or worse than Apollo; and I am sure it is
much better, and bespeaks more sense, to play the flute ill than to play it well. Depend upon
it, his Majesty of Phrygia has been very much abused by the mythologists. With that particular
skill of his, during an epidemic of the brevitas pecuniaria, (Angl. shorts,) he would have
been just the person to coax into one's house of accompt, at five minutes before two o'clock
in the afternoon, to work a little involuntary transmutation,--to change the coal-scuttle into
ingots, and the ruler into a great, gorged, glittering rouleau. So little would his auricular
eccentricity have hindered his welcome, that I verily believe he would have been heartily received,
if he had come with ensanguined chaps straight from the pillory, and had left both ears nailed
to the post.

Don't talk to me about filthy lucre! Pray, when would Sheikh Tâhâr, that eminent Koordish saint,
have become convinced that he was a great sinner, if they had not carried about the contribution-boxes
in the little New England churches? Do you think it has cost nothing to demonstrate to the
widows of Scindiah the folly of suttee? Don't you know that it has been an expensive work to
persuade the Khonds of Goomsoor to give up roasting each other in the name of Heaven? Very
fine is Epictetus,--but wilt he be your bail? Will Diogenes bring home legs of mutton? Can
you breakfast upon the simple fact that riches have wings and use them? Can you lunch upon
vanitas vanitatum? Are loaves and fishes intrinsically wicked? As for Virtue, we have the opinion
of Horace himself, that it is viler than the vilest weed, without fortune to support it. Poets,
of all men, are supposed to live most easily upon air; and yet, Don Bob, is not a fat poet,
like Jamie Thomson, quite likely, although plumper than beseems a bard, to be ten thousand
times healthier in his singing than my Lord Byron thinning himself upon cold potatoes and vinegar?
Do you think that Ovid cuts a very respectable figure, blubbering on the Euxine shore and sending
penitential letters to Augustus and afterward to Tiberius? He was a poor puppy, and as well
deserved to have three wives as any sinner I ever heard of. Don't you think, that, if the cities
of Smyrna, Chios, Colophon, Salamis, Rhodes, Argos, and Athens had given over disputing about
the birthplace of the author of the "Iliad" and other poems, and had "pooled in" a handsome
sum to send him to a blind asylum, it would have been a sensible proceeding? Do you think Milton
would have written less sublimely, if he had been more prosperous? Do you think Otway choking,
or Hudibras Butler dying by inches of slow starvation, pleasant to look upon? Are we to keep
any terms with the thin-visaged jade, Poverty, after she has broken down a great soul like
John Dryden's? That is a very foolish notion which has so long and so universally prevailed,
that a poet must, by the necessity of the case, be poor. David was reckoned an eminent bard
in his day, and he was a king; and Solomon, another sweet singer, was a king also. Depend upon
it, no man sings, or thinks, or, if he be a man, works, the worse for being tolerably provided
for in basket and pocket-money.

Objectively considered, I say that there is not in this world a sadder sight, one so touchingly
suggestive of departed joys, departed never to return, as a pocketbook, flat, planed, exenterated,
crushed by the elephantine foot of Fate,--nor is there one so ridiculous, inutile, impertinent,
possibly reproachful and disagreeably didactic. Think of it, Don Bob,--for you in your day,
as I in mine, have seen it. 'Tis so much leather stripped from the innocent beast, and cured
and colored and polished and stamped to no purpose,--with a prodigious show of empty compartments,
like banquet-halls deserted. It has a clasp to mount guard over nothing,--a clasp made of steel
digged from the bowels of the earth, and smelted and hammered and burnished, only to keep watch
and ward after the thief has made his visit leisurely. 'Tis an egregious chaos. 'Tis an absurd
vacuum. To make it still more unpleasant, there are your memoranda. You are reminded that upon
Thursday last you purchased butter flavous, or chops rosy; but where is hint, sign, direction,
or instruction touching the purchase of either upon Thursday next? How much would it have helped
poor Belisarius, in his sore estate, if he had kept a record of his household expenses, as
my friend Minimus does? By the same token, he sometimes makes odd misentries, pious figurative
fictions, in order to save the feelings of Mrs. Minimus, who is auditor-general and comptroller
of the household. And speaking of Belisarius, just fancy the hard fate of that gallant and
decayed soldier! Figure him left naked by the master whom he had served so well, crying out
for a beggarly obolus! Now this, you must know, was one of the least respectable coins of ancient
times, being of about the value of one farthing sterling. If the poor man had got his battered
old helmet full of them, the ponderous alms would not have driven the wolf gaunt and grinning
many paces from his squalid home,--always admitting that he had any home, however squalid,
to crawl into at sunset. And how often he crouched and whined, white-headed and bare-headed
all day, and did not get a lepton (which was, in value, thirty-one three hundred thirty-sixths
of an English farthing) for his pains! 'Tis such a pitiful story, that I am truly glad that
the eminent German scholar, Nicotinus of Heidelberg, in his work upon the Greek Particle, has
pretty clearly shown (Vol. xxviii. pp. 2850 to 5945) that the story may be regarded as a myth,
illustrating the great, eternal, and universal danger of ultimate seediness, in which the most
prosperous creatures live. And just think of Napoleon squabbling about wine with Sir Hudson
Lowe,--the hero of Areola, without courage enough to hang himself. Now you will notice, my
dear friend, that he did not lose his dignity, until, with true British instinct, they took
away his cash, and even opened his letters to confiscate his remittances. He should have hidden
the imperial spoons in a secret pocket. He should, at least, have saved a sixpence wherewithal
to buy Mr. Alison.

You may think, dear Don, that my views are exceedingly sordid. I readily admit that all the
philosophy and poetry, and I suppose I must add the morality, of the world are against me.
I know that it is prettier to turn up one's nose at ready cash. I have not found, indeed, that
for the poetical pauper, in his proper person, the world, whether sentimental or stolid, has
any deep reverence. Will old Jacob Plum, who lives on an unapproachably high avenue,--his house
front and his heart of the same material,--and who made two mints of money in the patent poudrette,
come to my shabby little attic in Nassau Street, and ask me to dinner simply because "The Samos
(Ill.) Aristarchean" has spoken with condescending blandness of my poems? I know that Miss
Plum dotes upon my productions. I know that she pictures me to herself as a Corydon in sky-blue
smalls and broad-brimmed straw hat, playing elegies in five flats, or driving the silly sheep
home through the evening shades. Now, whatever else I may be, I am not that. I keep my refinement
for gala-days; I do not shave, because I would save sixpences; I do not wear purple and fine
linen. I should be a woful disappointment to Mistress Plum: for I like beer with my beef, and
a heart-easing tug at my pipe afterwards; and as for the album, we should never get along at
all, for I have too much respect for poetry to write it for nothing. But if I have not wholly
escaped the shiftlessness and improvidence of my vocation,--if I have never rightly comprehended
the noble maxim, "A penny saved is a penny gained," (which cannot in rigid mathesis be true,
because by saving the penny you miss the enjoyment: that is, half-and-half, chops, or cheese,
which the penny aforesaid would purchase; so that the penny saved is no better than pebbles
which you may gather by the bushel upon any shore,)--if I like to haunt Old Tom's, and talk
of politics and poetry with the dear shabby set who nightly gather there, and are so fraternally
blind to the holes in each other's coats,--why it is all a matter between myself and Mrs. Potter,
and perhaps the clock. We have a good, stout, manly supper,--no Apician kickshaws, the triumphs
of palate-science,--no nightingales' tongues, no peacocks' brains, no French follies,--but
just a rasher or so, in its naked and elegant simplicity. Montaigne's cook, who treated of
his art with a settled countenance and magisterial gravity, would have turned his nose skyward
at our humble repast; and he would have cast like scorn upon that to which Milton with such
charming grace invited his friend, in one of those matchless sonnets which make us weep to
think that the author did not write a hundred of them. But Montaigne's cook may follow his
first master, the late Cardinal Caraffa, to that place where there will always be fire for
his saucepans! The epicures of Old Tom's would deal very crisply with that spit-bearing Italian,
or his shade, should it appear to them. We are not very polished, but most of us could give
hints to men richer than we can hope to be of a wiser use of money than the world is in any
danger of witnessing. There is Old Sanders, the proof-reader,--"Illegitimate S." we call him,--who
knows where there is an exquisite black-letter Chaucer which he pants to possess, and which
he would possess, were it not for a fear of Mrs. Sanders and a tender love of the little Sanderses.
There is young Smooch,--he who smashed the Fly-Gallery in "The Mahlstick" newspaper, and was
not for a moment taken in by the new Titian. There is Crosshatch, who has the marvellous etching
by Rembrandt, of which there are only three copies in the world, and which he will not sell,--no,
Sir,--not to the British Museum. There is Mr. Brevier Lead, who has in my time successively
and successfully smitten and smashed all the potentates, big and little, of Europe, and who
has in his museum a wooden model of the Alsop bomb. Give them money, and Sanders will rebuild
and refurnish the Alexandrian Library,--Smooch will bid every young painter in America reset
his palette and try again,--and Brevier Lead will be fool enough to start a newspaper upon
his own account, and, while his purse holds out to bleed, will make it a good one. But until
all these high and mighty things happen,--until we come into our property,--we must make the
best of matters. I know a clever Broadway publisher, who, if I were able to meet the expenses,
would bring out my minor poems in all the pomp of cream-laid paper, and with all the circumstance
of velvet binding, with illustrations by Darley, and with favorable notices in all the newspapers.
I should cut a fine figure, metaphorically, if not arithmetically speaking; whereas my farthing
rush-light is now sputtering, clinkering, and guttering to waste, and all because I have not
a pair of silver snuffers. If you wish me to move the world, produce your lever! Your wealthy
bard has at least audience; and if he cannot sing, he may thank his own hoarse throat, and
not the Destinies.

For myself, dear Don Bob, having come into my inheritance of oblivion while living,--having
in vain called upon Fame to sound the trumpet, which I am sure is so obstinately plugged that
it will never syllable my name,--having resolutely determined to be nobody,--I do not waste
my sympathy upon myself, but generously bestow it upon a mob of fine fellows in all ages, who
deserved, but did not grasp, a better fortune. All that live in human recollection are but
a handful to the tribes that have been forgotten. You will be kind enough, my sardonic friend,
to repress your sneers. I tell you that a great many worthy gentlemen and ladies have been
shouldered out of the Pantheon who deserved at least a corner, and who would not while living
have given sixpence to insure immortality, so certain were they of monuments harder than brass.
The murrain among the poets is the severest. For, in the first place, a fine butterfly may
have a pin stuck through his stomach even while living. There are Bavius and Maevius, who have
been laughed at since Virgil wrote his Third Eclogue. Now why does the world laugh? What does
the world know of either? They were stupid and malevolent, were they? Pray, how do you know
that they were? You have Virgil's word for it. But how do you know that Virgil was just? It
might have been the east wind; it might have been an indigestion; it might have been Virgil's
vanity; it might have been all a mistake. When a man has once been thoroughly laughed down,
people take his stupidity for granted; and although he may grow as wise as Solomon, living
he is considered a fool, dying he is regarded as a fool, and dead he is remembered as a fool.
Do you not suppose that very responsible folk were pilloried in the "Dunciad"? My own opinion
is, that a person must have had some merit, or he would not have been put there at all. How
many of those who laugh at Dennis and Shadwell know anything of either? And let me ask you
if the Pope set had such a superabundance of heart, that you would have been willing, with
childlike confidence, to submit your own verses to their criticism? For myself, I am free to
say that I have no patience with satirists. I never knew a just one. I never heard of a fair
one. They are a mean, malicious, murdering tribe,--they are a supercilious, dogmatical, envious,
suspicious company,--knocking down their fellow-creatures in the name of Virtue for their own
gratification,--mere Mohawks, kept by family influence out of the lock-up.

But of all Mohawks, Time is the fiercest. If I were upon the high road to fame, if I had honestly
determined to win immortality or perish in the attempt, I should look upon the gentleman with
no clothing except a scanty forelock, and with no personal property save his scythe and hour-glass,
as my greatest enemy,--and I should behold the perpetual efforts made to kill him with perfect
complacency. This, I know, is not regarded as a strictly moral act; for this murderer of murderers
is very much caressed by those who, in the name of Moses, would send a poor devil to his hempen
destiny for striking an unlucky blow. How continually is it beaten upon the juvenile tympanum,--"Be
careful of Time,"--"Time is money,"--"Make much of Time"! Certainly, I do not know what he
has done to merit consideration so tender. The best that can be said of old Edax Rerum is that
he has an unfailing appetite, and is not very fastidious about his provender,--and that, if
he does take heavy toll of the wheat, he also rids the world of no small amount of chaff. But
'tis such a prodigious maw!

You think, Don Bob, that you know the name of every man who has distinguished himself since
the days of Deucalion and Pyrrha. Let us see how much you know. I believe that in your day
you had something to do with the new edition of the Aldine Poets. I therefore ask you, in the
name of an outraged gentleman, who is too dead to say much for himself, why you left out of
the series my friend Mr. Robert Baston. You have used Baston very ill. Baston was an English
poet. Baston lived in the fourteenth century, and wove verses in Nottingham. When proud Edward
went to Scotland, he took Baston along with him to sing his victories. Unhappily, Bruce caged
the bird, and compelled him to amend his finest poems by striking out "Edward," wherever the
name of that revered monarch occurred, and inserting "Robert," which, as I have said, he was
obliged to do,--and a very ridiculous mess the process must have made of Mr. Baston's productions.
This is all I know of Baston; but is not this enough to melt the toughest heart? No wonder
he prologued his piping after the following dismal fashion:--

  "In dreary verse my rhymes I make,
  Bewailing whilst such theme I take."

However, Baston was a monk of the Carmelite species, and I hope he bore his agonies with religious
bravery.

And now let us make a skip down to Charles Aleyn, temp. Charles I. "of blessed memory." A Sidney
collegian of Cambridge, he began life as an usher in the celebrated school of Thomas Farnably,--another
great man of whom you never heard, O Don!--a famous school, in Goldsmith's Rents, near Red-Cross
Street, in the Parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate. Those were stirring times; but Aleyn managed
to write, before he died, in 1640, a rousing great poem, intituled, "The Battailes of Crescey
and Poictiers, under the Fortunes and Valour of King Edward the Third of that Name, and his
Sonne, Edward, Prince of Wales, surnamed The Black." 8vo. 1633. Let me give you a taste of
his quality, in the following elaborate catalogue of the curiosities of a battle-field:--

  "Here a hand severed, there an ear was cropped;
  Here a chap fallen, and there an eye put out;
  Here was an arm lopped off, there a nose dropped;
  Here half a man, and there a less piece fought;
  Like to dismembered statues they did stand,
  Which had been mangled by Time's iron hand."

This is prosaic enough, and might have been written by a surgical student; but this is better:--

  "The artificial wood of spears was wet
  With yet warm blood; and trembling in the wind,
  Did rattle like the thorns which Nature set
  On the rough hide of an armed porcupine;
  Or looked like the trees which dropped gore,
  Plucked from the tomb of slaughtered Polydore."

So much for Mr. Charles Aleyn.

But it is at the theatre, as you may well believe, that poets live and die most like the blithesome
grasshoppers. The poor players, marvellous compounds of tin, feathers, and tiffany, fret but
a brief hour; but the playwright, less considered alive, is sooner defunct. I have not Dodsley's
Plays by me, but, if my memory does not deceive me, not one of them keeps the stage; nor did
dear Charles Lamb make many in love with that huge heap in the British Museum. Alas! all these
good people, now grown so rusty, fusty, and forgotten, might have rolled under their tongues,
as a sweet morsel, those lines which civil Abraham Cowley sent to Leviathan Hobbes:--

  "To things immortal Time can do no wrong;
  And that which never is to die forever must be young."

Alas! they had great first nights and glorious third nights,--lords and ladies smiled and the
groundlings were affable,--they lived in a paradise of compliment and cash,--and then were
no better off than the garreteer who took his damnation comfortably early upon the first night,
and ran back to his den to whimper with mortification and to tremble with cold. There is worthy
Mr. Shakspeare, of whom an amiable writer kindly said, in 1723,--"There is certainly a great
deal of entertainment in his comical Humors, and a pleasing and well-distinguished variety
in those characters which he thought fit to meddle with. His sentiments are great and natural,
and his expression just, and raised in proportion to the subject and occasion." You may laugh
at this as much as you please, Don Bob; but I think it quite as sensible as many of the criticisms
of Samuel Johnson, LL.D.,--as that one of his, for instance, upon "Measure for Measure," which
I never read without a feeling of personal injury. I should like to know if it is writing criticism
to write,--"Of this play, the light or comic part is very natural and pleasing; but the grave
scenes, if a few passages be excepted, have more labor than elegance." Now, if old Boltcourt
had written instead, as he might have done, if the fit had been on him,--"Of this play, the
heavy or tragic part is very natural and pleasing; but the comic scenes, if a few passages
be excepted, have more labor than elegance,"--his remark would have been quite as sonorous,
and just a little nearer the truth. For my own part, I think there is nothing finer in all
Shakspeare than the interview between Angelo and Isabella, in the Second Act, or that exquisite
outburst of the latter, afterward, "Not with fond shekels of the tested gold," which is a line
the sugar of which you can sensibly taste as you read it. Incledon used to wish that his old
music-master could come down from heaven to Norwich, and could take the coach up to London
to hear that d--d Jew sing,--referring thus civilly to the respectable John Braham. I have
sometimes wished that Shakspeare could make a similar descent, and face his critics. Ah! how
much he could tell us over a single bottle of Rosa Solis at some new "Mermaid" extemporized
for the occasion! What wild work would he make with the commentators long before we had exhausted
the ordinate cups! and how, after we had come to the inordinate, would he be with difficulty
prevented from marching at once to break the windows of his latest glossator! If anything could
make one sick of "the next age," it would be the shabby treatment which the Avonian has received.
I do not wonder that the illustrious authors of "Salmagundi" said,--"We bequeathe our first
volume to future generations,--and much good may it do them! Heaven grant they may be able
to read it!" Seeing that contemporary fame is the most profitable,--that you can eat it, and
drink it, and wear it upon your back,--I own that it is the kind for which I have the most
absolute partiality. It is surely better to be spoken well of by your neighbors, who do know
you, than by those who do not know you, and who, if they commend, may do so by sheer accident.

You never heard of Mr. Horden, of Charles Knipe, of Thomas Lupon, of Edward Revet? Great men
all, in their day! So there was Mr. John Smith,--clarum et venerabile nomen!--who in 1677 wrote
a comedy called "Cytherea; or, the Enamoring Girdle." So there was Mr. Swinney, who wrote one
play called "The Quacks." So there was Mr. John Tutchin, 1685, who wrote "The Unfortunate Shepherd."
So there is Mr. William Smith, Mr. H. Smith, author of "The Princess of Parma," and Mr. Edmund
Smith, 1710, author of "Phedra and Hippolytus," who is buried in Wiltshire, under a Latin inscription
as long as my arm. There is Thomas Yalden, D.D., 1690, who helped Dryden and Congreve in the
translation of Ovid, who wrote a Hymn to Morning, commencing vigorously thus:--

  "Parent of Day! whose beauteous beams of light
  Sprang from the darksome womb of night!"--

and who was a great friend of Addison, which is the best I know of him. He might have been,
like Sir Philip Sidney, "scholar, soldier, lover, saint,"--for Doctors of Divinity have been
all four,--but I declare that I have told you all I have learned about him.

It is grievous to me, dear Bobus, a man of notorious gallantry, to find that the ladies, after
consenting to smirch their rosy fingers with Erebean ink, are among the first who are discarded.
If you will go into the College Library, Mr. Sibley will show you a charming copy of the works
of Mrs. Behn, with a roguish, rakish, tempting little portrait of the writer prefixed. Poor
Mrs. Behn was a notability as well as a notoriety in her day; and when I have great leisure
for the work, I mean to write her life and do her justice. The task would have been worthy
of De Foe; but, with a little help from you, I hope to do it passably. Poor Aphra! poet, dramatist,
intriguant strumpet! Worthy of no better fate, take my benison of light laughter and of tears!
Then there is Mrs. Elizabeth Singer, who was living in 1723, who selected as the subject of
her work nothing less than the Creation, and who was a woman of great religion. Her poem commences
patronizingly thus:--

  "Hail! mighty Maker of the Universe!
  My song shall still thy glorious deeds rehearse.
  Thy praise, whatever subject others choose,
  Shall be the lofty theme of my aspiring Muse."

Elizabeth was a Somersetshire woman, a clothier's daughter; and if she had thrown away her
lyre and gone back to the distaff, I do not think Parnassus would have broken its heart. Then
there is our fair friend, Mrs. Molesworth. Her father was a Right Honorable Irish peer of the
same name, who had some acquaintance, if not a friendlier connection, with John Locke.

Let me introduce you to one more lady. This is Mrs. Wiseman, dear Don! She was of "poor, but
honest" parentage; and if she did wash the dishes of Mr. Recorder Wright of Oxford, she did
better than my Lady Hamilton or my Lady Blessington of later times. Mrs. Wiseman read novels
and plays, and, of course, during the intervals of domestic drudgery, began to write a drama,
which she finished after she went to London. It was of high-sounding title, for it was called,
"Antiochus the Great; or, the Fatal Relapse." Who relapsed so fatally--whether Antiochus with
his confidant, or his wife with her confidante, or Ptolemy Pater with his confidant, or Epiphanes
with his confidant--is more than I can tell. Indeed, I am not sure that I know which Antiochus
was honored by Mrs. Wiseman's Muse. Whether it was Antiochus Soter, or Antiochus Theos, or
Antiochus the Great, or Antiochus the Epiphanous or Illustrious, or Antiochus Eupator, or Antiochus
Eutheus, or Antiochus Sidetes, or Antiochus Grypus, or Antiochus Cyzenicus, or Antiochus Pius,--the
greatest rogue of the whole dynasty,--or Antiochus Asiaticus, who "used up" the family entirely
in Syria--is more than I can tell. Indeed, Antiochus was such a favorite name with kings, that,
without seeing the play,--and I have not seen it,--I cannot inform you which Antiochus we are
talking about. Possibly it was the Antiochus who went into a fever for the love of Stratonice;
and if so, please to notice that this was the wicked Antiochus Soter, the son of Selencus,
and the scapegrace who married his mother-in-law, by the advice of the family-doctor, while
his fond father stood tearfully by and gave away the bride. After such a scandalous piece of
business, I shall have nothing more to do with the family, but shall gladly return to our talented
friend, Mrs. Wiseman. She brought out her work at the Theatre Royal in 1706, "with applause";
and the play, I am glad to inform you, brought in money, so that an enterprising young vintner,
by the name of Holt, besought her hand, and won it. With the profits of "Antiochus" they established
a tavern in Westminster, and the charming Wiseman with her own hand drew pots of half-and-half,
or mixed punch for the company. I should very much like to see two-thirds of our many poet-esses
doing the same thing.

But enough, probably too much, of this skimble-skamble! If you will look into a copy of Dr.
Johnson's Dictionary, (Worcester's edition,) you will find the names of nearly a thousand English
authors cited in alphabetical order as authorities. Of these it is safe to say that not more
than one hundred are remembered by the general reader. Such is Fame! Such is the jade who leads
us up hill and down, through jungles and morasses, into deep waters and into swamps, through
thick weather and thin, under blue skies and brown ones, in heat and in cold, hungry and thirsty
and ragged, and heart-sore and foot-sore, now hopeful and now hopeless, now striding and now
stumbling, now exultant and now despairing, now singing, now sighing, and now swearing, up
to her dilapidated old temple. And when we get there, we find Dr. Beattie, in a Scotch wig,
washing the face of young Edwin! A man of your pounds would be a fool to undertake the journey;
but if you will be such a fool, you must go without the company of

Your terrestrial friend,

PAUL POTTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE NEW LIFE" OF DANTE.

I.

"At that season," says Boccaccio, in his Life of Dante, "when the sweetness of heaven reclothes
the earth with its adornments, and makes it all smiling with flowers among the green leaves,
it was the custom in our city for the men and for the ladies to celebrate festivals in their
own streets in separate companies. Wherefore it happened, that, among the rest, Folco Portinari,
a man held in much honor in those times among the citizens, had collected his neighbors at
a feast in his own house on the first of May. Among them was the before-named Alighieri,--and,
as little boys are wont to follow their fathers, especially to festive places, Dante, whose
ninth year was not yet finished, accompanied him. It happened, that here, with others of his
age, of whom, both boys and girls, there were many at the house of the entertainer, he gave
himself to merry-making, after a childish fashion. Among the crowd of children was a little
daughter of Folco, whose name was Bice,--though this was derived from her original name, which
was Beatrice. She was, perhaps, eight years old, a pretty little thing in a childish way, very
gentle and pleasing in her actions, and much more sedate and modest in her manners and words
than her youthful age required. Beside this, she had very delicate features, admirably proportioned,
and full, in addition to their beauty, of such openness and charm, that she was looked upon
by many as a little angel. She then, such as I depict her, or rather, far more beautiful, appeared
at this feast before the eyes of our Dante, not, I believe, for the first time, but first with
power to enamor him. In the Vita Nuova, "The New Life," Dante has written the first part of
the history of that love which began at this festival, and which, growing with his growth,
became, not many years after, the controlling passion of his life. Nothing is better or more
commonly known about Dante than his love for Beatrice; but the course of that love, its relation
to his external and public life, its moulding effect upon his character, have not been clearly
traced. The love which lasted from his boyhood to his death, keeping his heart fresh, spite
of the scorchings of disappointment, with springs of perpetual solace,--the love which, purified
and spiritualized by the bitterness of separation and trial, led him through the hard paths
of Philosophy and up the steep ascents of Faith, bringing him out of Hell and through Purgatory
to the glories of Paradise and the fulfilment of Hope,--such a love is not only a spiritual
experience, but it is also a discipline of character whose results are exhibited in the continually
renewed struggles of life.

The earthly story of this love, of its beginning, its irregular course, its hopes and doubts,
its exaltations and despairs, its sudden interruption and transformation by death, is the story
which the "Vita Nuova" tells.

But "The New Life" has an interest of another sort, and a claim, not yet sufficiently acknowledged,
upon all who would read the "Divina Commedia" with fit appreciation, in that it contains the
first hint of the great poem itself, and furnishes for it a special, interior, imaginative
introduction, without the knowledge of which it is not thoroughly to be understood. The character
of Beatrice, as she appears in the "Divina Commedia," the relation in which the poet stands
to her, the motive of the dedication of the poem to her honor and memory, and many minor allusions,
are all explained or illustrated by the aid of the "Vita Nuova." Dante's works and life are
interwoven as are those of no other of the poets who have written for all time. No other has
so written his autobiography. With Dante, external impressions and internal experiences--sights,
actions, thoughts, emotions, sufferings--were all fused into poetry as they passed into his
soul. Practical life and imaginative life were with him one and indissoluble. Not only was
the life of imagination as real to him as the life of fact, but the life of fact was clothed
upon by that of imagination; so that, on the one hand, daily events and common circumstances
became a part of his spiritual experience in a far more intimate sense than is the case with
other men, while, on the other, his fancies and his visions assumed the absoluteness and the
literal existence of positive external facts. The remotest flights of his imagination never
carry him where his sight becomes dim. His journey through the spiritual world was no less
real to him than his journeys between Florence and Rome, or his wanderings between Verona and
Ravenna. So absolute was his imagination, that it often so far controls his reader as to make
it difficult not to believe that the poet beheld with his mortal eyes the invisible scenes
which he describes. Boccaccio relates, that, after that part of the "Commedia" which treats
of Hell had become famous it happened one day in Verona, that Dante "passed before a door where
several women were sitting, and one of them, in a low voice, yet not so but that she was well
heard by him and his companion, said to another woman: 'See that man who goes through Hell
and comes back when he pleases, and brings news of those who are down there!' And then one
of them replied simply: 'Indeed, what you say must be true; for do you not see how his beard
is crisped and his face brown with the heat and smoke of it?'"[2]

From this close relation between his life and his works, the "Vita Nuova" has a peculiar interest,
as the earliest of Dante's writings, and the most autobiographic of them in its form and intention.
In it we are brought into intimate personal relations with the poet. He trusts himself to us
with full and free confidence; but there is no derogation from becoming manliness in his confessions.
He draws the picture of a portion of his youth, and lays bare its tenderest emotions; but he
does so with no morbid self-consciousness, and no affectation. Part of this simplicity is due,
undoubtedly, to the character of the times, part to his own youthfulness, part to downright
faith in his own genius. It was the fashion for poets to tell of their loves; in following
the fashion, he not only gave expression to real feeling, but claimed his rank among the poets,
and set a new style, from which love-poetry was to take a fresh date.

This first essay of his poetic powers exhibits the foundation upon which his later life was
built. The figure of Beatrice, which appears veiled under the allegory, and indistinct in the
bright cloud of the mysticism of the "Divina Commedia," takes her place in life and on the
earth through the "Vita Nuova," as definitely as Dante himself. She is no allegorized piece
of humanity, no impersonation of attributes, but an actual woman,--beautiful, modest, gentle,
with companions only less beautiful than herself,--the most delightful figure in the midst
of the picturesque life of Florence.

It was in the year 1292, about two years after the death of Beatrice, and when he himself was
about twenty-seven years old, that Dante collected into this libretto d' amore the poems that
he had written during Beatrice's life, adding to them others relating to her written after
her death, and accompanying all with a narrative and commentary in prose. The meaning of the
name which he gave to the book, "La Vita Nuova," has been the cause of elaborate discussion
among the Italian commentators. Literally "The New Life," it has been questioned whether this
phrase meant simply early life, or life made new by the first experience and lasting influence
of love. The latter interpretation seems the most appropriate to Dante's turn of mind and to
his condition of feeling at the time when the little book appeared. To him it was the record
of that life which the presence of Beatrice had made new.[3]

But whatever be the true significance of the title, this "New Life" is full not only of the
youthfulness of its author, but of the fresh and youthful spirit of the time. Italy, after
going through a long period of childhood, was now becoming conscious of the powers of maturity.
Society, (to borrow a fine figure from Lamennais,) like a river, which, long lost in marshes,
had at length regained its channel, after stagnating for centuries, was now again rapidly advancing.
Throughout Italy there was a morning freshness, and the thrill and exhilaration of conscious
activity. Her imagination was roused by the revival of ancient and now new learning, by the
stories of travellers, by the gains of commerce, by the excitements of religion and the alarms
of superstition. She was boastful, jealous, quarrelsome, lavish, magnificent, full of fickleness,--exhibiting
on all sides the exuberance, the magnanimity, the folly of youth. After the long winter of
the Dark Ages, spring had come, and the earth was renewing its beauty. And above all other
cities in these days Florence was full of the pride of life. Civil brawls had not yet reduced
her to become an easy prey for foreign conquerors. She was famous for wealth, and her spirit
had risen with prosperity. Many years before, one of the Provençal troubadours, writing to
his friend in verse, had said,--"Friend Gaucelm, if you go to Tuscany, seek a shelter in the
noble city of the Florentines, which is named Florence. There all true valor is found; there
joy and song and love are perfect and adorned." And if this were true in the earlier years
of the thirteenth century, it was still truer of its close; for much of early simplicity and
purity of manners had disappeared before the increasing luxury (le morbidezze d' Egitto, as
Boccaccio terms it) and the gathered wealth of the city,--so that gayety and song more than
ever abounded. "It is to be noted," says Giovanni Villani, writing of this time, "it is to
be noted that Florence and her citizens were never in a happier condition." The chroniclers
tell of constant festivals and celebrations. "In the year 1283, in the month of June, at the
feast of St. John, the city of Florence being in a happy and good state of repose,--a tranquil
and peaceable state, excellent for merchants and artificers,--there was formed a company of
a thousand men or more, all clothed in white dresses, with a leader called the Lord of Love,
who devoted themselves to games and sports and dancing, going through the city with trumpets
and other instruments of joy and gladness, and feasting often together. And this court lasted
for two months, and was the most noble and famous that ever was in Florence or in all Tuscany,
and many gentlemen came to it, and many rhymers,[4] and all were welcomed and honorably cared
for." Every year, the summer was opened with May and June festivals. Florence was rejoicing
in abundance and beauty.[5] Nor was it only in passing gayeties that the cheerful and liberal
temper of the people was displayed.

The many great works of Art which were begun and carried on to completion at this time show
with what large spirit the whole city was inspired, and under what strong influences of public
feeling the early life of Dante was led. Civil liberty and strength were producing their legitimate
results. Little republic as she was, Florence was great enough for great undertakings. Never
was there such a noble activity within the narrow compass of her walls as from about 1265,
when Dante was born, to the end of the century. In these thirty-five years, the stout walls
and the tall tower of the Bargello were built, the grand foundations of the Palazzo Vecchio
and of the unrivalled Duomo were laid, and both in one year; the Baptistery--Il mio bel San
Giovanni--was adorned with a new covering of marble; the churches of Sta Maria Novella, of
Or San Michele, (changed from its original object,) and Sta Croce,--the finest churches even
now in Florence,--were all begun and carried far on to completion. Each new work was at once
the fruit and the seed of glorious energy. The small city, of less than one hundred thousand
inhabitants, the little republic, not so large as Rhode Island or Delaware, was setting an
example which later and bigger and richer republics have not followed.[6] It might well, indeed,
be called a "new life" for Florence, as well as for Dante.

It would be strange, indeed, if the youthful book of one so sensitive to external influences
as Dante did not give evidence of sympathy with such pervading emotion. And so apparent is
this,--that one may say that only at such a period, when strength of sentiment was finding
vent in all manner of free expression, was such a book possible. Confidence, frankness, directness
in the rendering of personal feeling are rare, except in conditions of society when the emotional
spirit is stronger than the critical. The secret of the active power of the arts at this time
was the conscious or unconscious resort of those who practised them to the springs of Nature,
from which the streams of all true Art proceed. Dante was the first of the moderns to seek
Poetry at the same fountain, and to free her from the chains of conventionality which had long
bound her. In this he shows his close relation to his times. It is his fidelity to Nature which
has made him a leader for all successive generations. The "Vita Nuova" was the beginning of
a new school of poetry and of prose as completely as Giotto's O was the beginning of a new
school of painting.

The Italian poets, before Dante, may be broadly divided into two classes. The first was that
of the troubadours, writing in the Provençal language, hardly to be distinguished from their
contemporaries of the South of France, giving expression in their verses to the ideas of love,
gallantry, and valor which formed the base of the complex and artificial system of chivalry,
repeating constantly the same fancies and thoughts in similar formulas of words, without scope
or truth of imagination, with rare exhibitions of individual feeling, with little regard for
Nature. Ingenuity is more characteristic of their poetry than force, subtilty more obvious
in it than beauty. The second and later class were poets who wrote in the Italian tongue, but
still under the influence of the poetic code which had governed the compositions of their Provençal
predecessors. Their poetry is, for the most part, a faded copy of an unsubstantial original,--an
echo of sounds originally faint. Truth and poetry were effectually divided. In the latter half
of the thirteenth century, however, a few poets appeared whose verses give evidence of some
native life, and are enlivened by a freer play of fancy and a greater truthfulness of feeling.
Guido Guinicelli, who died in 1276, when Dante was eleven years old, and, a little later, Guido
Cavalcanti, and some few others, trusting more than had been done before to their own inspiration,
show themselves as the forerunners of a better day.[8] But as, in painting, Margheritone and
Cimabue, standing between the old and the new styles, exhibit rather a vague striving than
a fulfilled attainment, so is it with these poets. There is little that is distinguishingly
individual in them. Love is still treated mostly as an abstraction, and one poet might adopt
the others' love-verses with few changes of words for any manifest difference in them of personal
feeling.

Not so with Dante. The "Vita Nuova," although retaining many ideas, forms, and expressions
derived from earlier poets, is his, and could be the work of no other. Nor was he unaware of
this difference between himself and those that had gone before him, or ignorant of its nature.
In describing himself to Buonagiunta da Lucca in Purgatory, he says, "I am one who, when Love
breathes, mark, and according as he dictates within, I report"; to which the poet of Lucca
replies, "O brother, now I see the knot which kept the Notary and Guittone and me back from
that sweet new style which now I hear. I see well how your pens have followed close on the
dictator, which truly was not the case with ours."[9] As Love was the common theme of the verses
from which Buonagiunta drew his contrast, the difference between them lay plainly in sincerity
of feeling and truth of expression. The following close upon the dictates of his heart was
the distinguishing merit of Dante's love-poetry over all that had preceded it and most of what
has followed it. There are, however, some among his earlier poems in which the "sweet new style"
is scarcely heard,--and others, of a later period, in which the accustomed metaphysical and
fanciful subtilties of the elder poets are drawn out to an unwonted fineness. These were concessions
to a ruling mode,--concessions the more readily made, owing to their being in complete harmony
with the strong subtilizing and allegorizing tendencies of Dante's own mind. Still, so far
as he adopts the modes of his predecessors in this first book of his, Dante surpasses them
all in their own way. He leaves them far behind him, and goes forward to open new paths which
he is to tread alone.

But there is yet another tendency of the times, to which Dante, in his later works, has given
the fullest and most characteristic expression, and which exhibits itself curiously in the
"Vita Nuova." Corresponding with the new ardor for the arts, and in sympathy with it, was a
newly awakened and generally diffused ardor for learning, especially for the various branches
of philosophy. Science was leaving the cloister, in which she had sat in dumb solitude, and
coming out into the world. But the limits and divisions of knowledge were not firmly marked.
The relations of learning to life were not clearly understood. The science of mathematics was
not yet so advanced as to bind philosophy to exactness. The intellects of men were quickened
by a new sense of freedom, and stimulated by ardor of imagination. New worlds of undiscovered
knowledge loomed vaguely along the horizon. Philosophy invaded the sphere of poetry, while,
on the other hand, poetry gave its form to much of the prevailing philosophy. To be a proper
poet was not only to be a writer of verses, but to be a master of learning. Boccaccio describes
Guido Cavalcanti as "one of the best logicians in the world, and as a most excellent natural
philosopher,"[10] but says nothing of his poetry. Dante, more than any other man of his time,
resumed in himself the general zeal for knowledge. His genius had two distinct, and yet often
intermingling parts,--the poetic and the scientific. No learning came amiss to him. He was
born a scholar, as he was born a poet,--and had he written not a single poem, he would still
be famous as the most profound student of his times. Far as he surpassed his contemporaries
in poetry, he was no less their superior in the depth and the extent of his knowledge. And
this double nature of his genius is plainly shown in many parts of "The New Life." A youthful
incapacity to mark clearly the line between the work of the student and the work of the poet
is manifest in it. The display of his acquisitions is curiously mingled with the narrative
of his emotions. This is not to be charged against him as pedantry. His love of learning partook
of the nature of passion; his judgment was not yet able, if indeed it ever became able, to
establish the division between the abstractions of the intellect and the affections of the
heart. And above all, his early claim of honor as a poet was to be justified by his possession
of the fruits of study.

But there was also in Dante a quality of mind which led him to unite the results of knowledge
with poetry in a manner almost peculiar to himself. He was essentially a mystic. The dark and
hidden side of things was not less present to his imagination than the visible and plain. The
range of human capacity in the comprehension of the spiritual world was not then marked by
as numerous boundary-stones of failure as now limit the way. Impossibilities were sought for
with the same confident hope as realities. The alchemists and the astrologers believed in the
attainment of results as tangible and real as those which travellers brought back from the
marvellous and still unachieved East. The mystical properties of numbers, the influence of
the stars, the powers of cordials and elixirs, the virtues of precious stones, were received
as established facts, and opened long vistas of discovery before the student's eyes. Curiosity
and speculative inquiry were stimulated by wonder and fed by all the suggestions of heated
fancies. Dante, partaking to the full in the eager spirit of the times, sharing all the ardor
of the pursuit of knowledge, and with a spiritual insight which led him into regions of mystery
where no others ventured, naturally connected the knowledge which opened the way for him with
the poetic imagination which cast light upon it. To him science was but another name for poetry.

Much learning has been expended in the attempt to show that even the doctrine of Love, which
is displayed in "The New Life," is derived, more or less directly, from the philosophy of Plato.
It has been supposed that this little autobiographic story, full of the most intimate personal
revelations, and glowing with a sincere passion, was written on a preconceived basis of theory.
A certain Platonic form of expression, often covering ideas very far removed from those of
Plato, was common to the earlier, colder, and less truthful poets. Some strains of such Platonism,
derived from the poems of his predecessors, are perhaps to be found in this first book of Dante's.
But there is nothing to show that he had deliberately adopted the teachings of the ancient
philosopher. It may well, indeed, be doubted if at the time of its composition he had read
any of Plato's works. Such Platonism as exists in "The New Life" was of that unconscious kind
which is shared by every youth of thoughtful nature and sensitive temperament, who makes of
his beloved a type and image of divine beauty, and who by the loveliness of the creature is
led up to the perfection of the Creator.

The essential qualities of the "Vita Nuova," those which afford direct illustration of Dante's
character, as distinguished from those which may be called youthful, or merely literary, or
biographical, correspond in striking measure with those of the "Divina Commedia." The earthly
Beatrice is exalted to the heavenly in the later poem; but the same perfect purity and intensity
of feeling with which she is reverently regarded in the "Divina Commedia" is visible in scarcely
less degree in the earlier work. The imagination which makes the unseen seen, and the unreal
real, belongs alike to the one and to the other. The "Vita Nuova" is chiefly occupied with
a series of visions; the "Divina Commedia" is one long vision. The sympathy with the spirit
and impulses of the time, which in the first reveals the youthful impressibility of the poet,
in the last discloses itself in maturer forms, in more personal expressions. In the "Vita Nuova"
it is a sympathy mastering the natural spirit; in the "Divina Commedia" the sympathy is controlled
by the force of established character. The change is that from him who follows to him who commands.
It is the privilege of men of genius, not only to give more than others to the world, but also
to receive more from it. Sympathy, in its full comprehensiveness, is the proof of the strongest
individuality. By as much as Dante or Shakspeare learnt of and entered into the hearts of men,
by so much was his own nature strengthened and made peculiarly his own. The "Vita Nuova" shows
the first stages of that genius, the first proofs of that wide sympathy, which at length resulted
in the "Divine Comedy." It is like the first blade of spring grass, rich with the promise of
the golden harvest.

[Footnote 1: Vita di Dante. Milan, 1823, pp. 29, 30.]

[Footnote 2: Vita di Dante, p. 69.]

[Footnote 3: For vita nova in the sense of early life, see Purgatory, xxx. 115, with the comments
of Landino and Benvenuto da Imola; and for età novella in a similar sense, see Canzone xviii.
st. 6. Fraticelli, who supports this interpretation, gives these with other examples, but none
more to the point. Mr. Joseph Carrow, who had a translation into English of the Vita Nuova,
printed at Florence in 1840, entitles his book "The Early Life of Dante Allighieri." But as
giving probability to the meaning to which we incline, see Canzone x. st. 5.

  "Lo giorno che costei nel mondo venne,
  Secondo che si trova
  Nel libro della mente che vien meno,
  La mia persona parvola sostenne
  Una passion nova."

  That day when she unto the world attained,
  As is found written true
  Within the book of my now sinking soul,
  Then by my childish nature was sustained
  A passion new.

In referring to Dante's Minor Poems, we shall refer to them as they stand in the first volume
of Fraticelli's edition of the Opere Minore al Dante, Firenze, 1834. There is great need of
a careful, critical edition of the Canzoniere of Dante, in which poems falsely ascribed to
him should no longer hold place among the genuine. But there is little hope for this from Italy;
for the race of Italian commentators on Dante is, as a whole, more frivolous, more impertinent,
and duller, than that of English commentators on Shakespeare.]

[Footnote 4: The word in the original (Villani, Book vii. C. 89) is Giocolari, the Italian
form of the French jongleur,--the appellation of those whose profession was to sing or recite
the verses of the troubadours or the romances of chivalry.]

[Footnote 5: See Boccaccio, Decamerone, Giorn. vi, Nov. 9, for an entertaining picture of Florentine
festivities.]

[Footnote 6: The feeling which moved Florence thus to build herself into beauty was one shared
by the other Italian republican cities at this time. Venice, Verona, Pisa, Siena, Orvieto,
were building or adding to churches and palaces such as have never since been surpassed.]

[Footnote 7: Cicognara, Storia della Scultura, II. 147.]

[Footnote 8: Guido Guinicelli will always be less known by his own verses than by Dante's calling
him

                  ------"father
  Of me and all those better others
  Who sweet chivalric lovelays formed."
                                Purg. xxvi. 97-99.

And Guido Cavalcanti, "he who took from this other Guido the praise of speech," (Purg. xi.
97,) is more famous as Dante's friend than as a poet.]

[Footnote 9: Purgatory, xxiv. 53-60.]

[Footnote 10: Decamerone, Giorn. vi. Nov. 9. Logician is here to be understood in an extended
sense, as the student of letters, or arts, as they were then called, in general.]

       *       *       *       *       *

AT SEA.

  The night is made for cooling shade,
    For silence, and for sleep;
  And when I was a child, I laid
  My hands upon my breast, and prayed,
    And sank to slumbers deep:
  Childlike as then, I lie to-night,
  And watch my lonely cabin light.

  Each movement of the swaying lamp
    Shows how the vessel reels:
  As o'er her deck the billows tramp,
  And all her timbers strain and cramp
    With every shock she feels,
  It starts and shudders, while it burns,
  And in its hingèd socket turns.

  Now swinging slow, and slanting low,
    It almost level lies;
  And yet I know, while to and fro
  I watch the seeming pendule go
    With restless fall and rise,
  The steady shaft is still upright,
  Poising its little globe of light.

  O hand of God! O lamp of peace!
    O promise of my soul!--
  Though weak, and tossed, and ill at ease,
  Amid the roar of smiting seas,
    The ship's convulsive roll,
  I own, with love and tender awe,
  Yon perfect type of faith and law!

  A heavenly trust my spirit calms,
    My soul is filled with light:
  The ocean sings his solemn psalms,
  The wild winds chant: I cross my palms,
    Happy as if, to-night,
  Under the cottage-roof, again
  I heard the soothing summer-rain.

       *       *       *       *       *

BULLS AND BEARS.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER V.

WHICH TREATS OF THE MODESTY OF CANDIDATES FOR OFFICE.

Mr. Sandford sat in his private room. Through the windows in front were seen the same bald
and grizzly heads that had for so many years given respectability to the Vortex Company. The
contemplation of the cheerful office and the thought of its increasing prosperity seemed to
give him great satisfaction; for he rubbed his white and well-kept hands, settled his staid
cravat, smoothed his gravely decorous coat, and looked the picture of placid content. He meditated,
gently twirling his watch-seal the while.

"Windham will be here presently, for my note admitted only of an answer in person. A very useful
person to have a call from is Windham; these old gentlemen will put up their gold spectacles
when he comes, and won't think any the less of me for having such a visitor. I noticed that
Monroe was much impressed the other day. Then Bullion and Stearine will drop in, I think,--both
solid men, useful acquaintances. If Plotman has only done what he promised, the thing will
come round right. I shall not seek office,--oh, no! I could not compromise my position. But
if the people thrust it upon me, I cannot refuse. Citizenship has its duties as well as its
privileges, and every man must take his share of public responsibility. By-the-by, that's a
well-turned phrase; 'twill bear repeating. I'll make a note of it."

True enough, Mr. Windham called, and, after the trivial business-affair was settled, he introduced
the subject he was expected to speak on.

"We want men of character and business habits in public station, my young friend, and I was
rejoiced to-day to hear that it was proposed to make you a Senator. We have had plenty of politicians,--men
who trade in honors and offices."

"I am sensible of the honor you mention," modestly replied Sandford, "and should value highly
the compliment of a nomination, particularly coming from men like yourself, who have only the
public welfare at heart. But if I were to accept, I don't know how I could discharge my duties.
And besides, I am utterly without experience in political life, and should very poorly fulfil
the expectations that would be formed of me."

"Don't be too modest, Mr. Sandford. If you have not experience in politics, all the better;
for the ways to office have been foul enough latterly. And as to business, we must arrange
that. Your duties here you could easily discharge, and we will get some other young man to
take your place in the charitable boards;--though we shall be fortunate, if we find any one
to make a worthy successor."

After a few words, the stately Mr. Windham bowed himself out, leaving Sandford rubbing his
hands with increased, but still gentle hilarity.

Mr. Bullion soon dropped in. He was a stout man, with a round, bald head, short, sturdy legs,
and a deep voice,--a weighty voice on 'Change, though, as its owner well knew,--the more, perhaps,
because it dealt chiefly in monosyllables.

"How are you, Sandford? Fine day. Anything doing? Money more in demand, they say. Hope all
is right; though it looks like a squall."

Mr. Sandford merely bowed, with an occasional "Ah!" or "Indeed!"

"How about politics?" Bullion continued. "Talk of sending you to the Senate. Couldn't do better,--I
mean the city couldn't; you'd be a d---d fool to go. Somebody has to, though. You as well as
any. Can I help you?"

"You rather surprise me. I had not thought of the honor."

Bullion turned his eye upon him,--a cool, gray eye, overhung by an eyebrow that seemed under
perfect muscular control; for the gray wisp of hair grew pointed like a paint-brush, and had
a queer motion of intelligence.

"Oh, shy, I see! Just as well. Too forward is bad. We'll fix it. Good morning!"

And Bullion, sticking his hands in his pockets, went away with a half-audible whistle, to look
after his debtors, and draw in his resources before the anticipated "squall" should come. Mr.
Sandford had lost the opportunity of making his carefully studied speech; but, as Bullion had
said, it was just as well.

Mr. Stearine came next,--a tall, thin man, with a large, bony frame, and a bilious temperament.
A smile played perpetually around his loose mouth,--not a smile of frank good-humor, but of
uneasy self-consciousness. He smiled because it was necessary to do something; and he had not
the idea of what repose meant.

"You are going to the Senate, I hear," said the visitor.

"Indeed!"

"Oh, yes,--I've heard it from several. Mr. Windham approves it, and I just heard Bullion speak
of it. A solid man is Bullion; a man of few words, but all his words tell; they drop like shot."

"Mr. Windham was good enough to speak of it to me to-day; but I haven't made up my mind. In
fact, it will be time enough when the nomination is offered to me. By-the-way, Mr. Stearine,
you were speaking the other day of a little discount. If you want a thousand or two, I think
I can get it for you. Street rates are rather high, you know; but I will do the best I can."

Mr. Stearine smiled again, as he had done every minute before, and expressed his gratification.

"Let me have good paper on short time; it's not my money, and I must consult the lender's views,
you know. About one and a half per cent. a month, I think; he may want one and three quarters,
or two per cent,--not more."

Mr. Stearine hoped his friend would obtain as favorable terms as he could.

"You'll have no trouble in meeting the larger note due, Bullion, on which I am indorser?" said
Sandford.

"None at all, I think," was the reply.

"Two birds with one stone," thought Sandford, after his friend's departure. "A good investment,
and the influence of a good man to boot. Now to see Fletcher and learn how affairs are coming
on. We'll make that ten thousand fifteen before fall is over, if I am not mistaken."

CHAPTER VI.

WHEREIN THE INVESTMENT IS DISCUSSED.

It was the evening of a long day in summer. Mrs. Monroe had rolled up her sewing and was waiting
for her son. Tea was ready in the pleasant east room, and the air of the house seemed to invite
tranquillity and repose. It was in a quiet street, away from the rattle of carriages, and comparatively
free from the multitudinous noises of a city. The carts of milkmen and marketmen were the only
vehicles that frequented it. The narrow yard in the rear, with its fringe of grass, and the
proximity to the pavement in front, were the only things that would have prevented one from
thinking himself a dweller in the country. As the clock struck six, Walter Monroe's step was
heard at the door;--other men might be delayed; he never. No seductions of billiards or pleasant
company ever kept him from the society of his mother. He had varied sources of amusement, and
many friends, attracted by his genial temper and tried worth; but he never forgot that his
mother denied herself all intercourse with society, and was indifferent to every pleasure out
of the sphere of home. Nor did he meet her as a matter of course; mindful of his mother's absorbing
love, and heartily returning it, he seemed always, upon entering the room, to have come home
as from a long absence. He kissed her fondly, asked concerning her health and spirits, and
how she had passed the day.

"The day is always long till you come, Walter. Tea is ready now, my son. When you are rested,
we will sit down."

"Ah, mother, you are cheerful to-day. I have brought you, besides the papers, a new book, which
we will commence presently."

"A thoughtful boy you are; but you haven't told me all, Walter. I see something behind those
eyes of yours."

"What telltales they must be! Well, I have a pretty present for you,--a sweet picture I bought
the other day, and which will come home to-morrow, I fancy."

"Is that all? I shall be glad to see the picture, because you like it. But you have something
else on your mind."

"I see I never keep anything from you, mother. You seem to know my thoughts."

"Well, what is it?"

"I have been thinking, mother, that our little property was hardly so productive as it ought
to be,--earning barely six per cent., while I know that many of my friends are getting eight,
and even ten."

"I am afraid that the extra interest is only to pay for the risk of losing all."

"True, that is often the case; but I think we can make all safe."

"Well, what do you propose doing?"

"I have left it with Mr. Sandford, an acquaintance of mine, to invest for me. He is secretary
of an insurance company, and knows all the ways of the money-lending world."

"It's a great risk, Walter, to trust our all."

"Not our all, mother. I have a salary, and, whatever may happen, we can always depend on that.
Besides, Mr. Sandford is a man of integrity and credit. He has the unlimited confidence of
the company, and I rely upon him as I would upon myself."

"How has he invested it? Have you got the securities?"

"Not yet, mother. I have left the money on his note for the present; and when he has found
a good chance to loan it, he will give me the mortgages or stocks, as the case may be. But
come, mother, let us sit down to tea. All is safe, I am sure; and to-morrow I will make you
satisfied with my prudent management."

When the simple meal was over, they sat in the twilight before the gas was lighted. The moments
passed rapidly in their free and loving converse. Then the table was drawn out and the new
book was opened. Mrs. Monroe suddenly recollected something.

"Walter, my dear, a letter was left here to-day by the postman. As it was directed to the street
and number, it did not go to your box. Here it is. I have read it; and rather sad news it brings.
Cousin Augustus is failing, so his daughter writes, and it is doubtful whether he ever recovers.
Poor child! I am sorry for her."

Walter took the letter and hastily read it.

"A modest, feeling, sensible little girl, I am sure. I have never seen her, you know; but this
letter is simple, touching, and womanly."

"A dear, good girl, I am sure. How lonely she must be!"

"Mother, I believe I'll go and see them. In time of trouble we should forget ceremony. Cousin
Augustus has never invited me, but I'll go and see him. Won't you go, too?"

"Dear boy, I couldn't! The cars? Oh, never!"

Walter smiled. "You don't get over your prejudices. The cars are perfectly safe, and more comfortable
than coaches."

"I can't go; it's no use to coax me."

"I have but one thing to trouble me, mother,--and that is, that I can never get you away from
this spot."

"I'm very happy, Walter, and it's a very pleasant spot; why should I wish to go?"

"How long since you have been down Washington Street?"

"Ten years, I think."

"And you have never seen the new theatre, nor the Music Hall?"

"No."

"Nor any of the new warehouses?"

"I don't want to see them."

"And you wouldn't go to church, if it were more than a stone's throw away?"

"I am afraid not."

"How long since you were in a carriage?"

Her eyes filled with tears, but she made no reply.

"Forgive me, mother! I remember the time,--five years! and it seems like yesterday when father"--

There was a silence which, for a time, neither cared to break.

"Well," said Walter, at length, "I shall have to go alone. To-morrow morning I will arrange
my business,--not forgetting our securities,--and start in the afternoon train."

"Your father often spoke of Cousin Augustus and his lovely wife; I wonder if the daughter has
her mother's beauty?"

"I can't tell. I hope so. But don't look so inquiringly. I don't love a woman in the world,--except
you, mother. I shan't fall in love, even if she is an angel."

"If Cousin Augustus should be worse,--should die, what will become of the poor motherless child?"

"There are no nearer relatives than we, mother,--and we must give her a home, if she will come."

"Certainly, Walter, we must not be hard-hearted."

Mrs. Monroe was charitable, kind, and motherly towards the distressed; she felt the force of
her son's generous sentiments. If it were her Cousin Augustus himself who was to be sheltered,
or his son, if he had one,--or if the daughter were unattractive, a hoyden even, she would
cheerfully make any sacrifice in favor of hospitality. But she could not repress a secret fear
lest the beauty and innocence of the orphan should appeal too strongly to Walter's heart. She
knew the natural destiny of agreeable young men; she acknowledged to herself that Walter would
sometime marry; but she put the time far off as an evil day, and kept the subject under ban.
None of her neighbors who had pretty daughters were encouraged to visit her on intimate terms.
She almost frowned upon every winsome face that crossed her threshold when Walter was at home.
So absorbing was this feeling, that she was not aware of its existence, but watched her son
by a sort of instinct. Her conduct was not the result of cool calculation, and, if it could
have been properly set before her generous, kindly heart, she would have been shocked at her
own fond selfishness.

So she sat and speculated, balancing between fear and hope. If Walter built air-castles, was
he to blame? At twenty-four, with a heart untouched, with fresh susceptibilities, and a little
romance withal, is it to be wondered that his fancy drew such pleasing pictures of his cousin?

We will leave them to their quiet evening's enjoyment and follow Greenleaf to the house of
Mr. Sandford.

CHAPTER VII.

THE MUSICAL SOIRÉE.

A small, but judiciously-selected company had assembled; all were people of musical tastes,
and most of them capable of sharing in the performances. There were but few ladies; perhaps
it did not suit the mistress of the house to have the attentions of the gentlemen divided among
too many. Miss Sandford was undeniably queen of the evening; her superb face and figure, and
irreproachable toilet, never showed to better advantage. And her easy manners, and ready, silvery
words, would have given a dangerous charm to a much plainer woman. She had a smile, a welcome,
and a compliment for each,--not seemingly studied, but gracefully expressed, and sufficient
to put the guests in the best humor. Mrs. Sandford, less demonstrative in manner than her sister-in-law,
and less brilliant in conversation and personal attractions, was yet a most winning, lovable
woman,--a companion for a summer ramble, or a quiet tête-à-tête, rather than a belle for a
drawing-room. Mr. Sandford was calmly conscious, full of subdued spirits, cheerful and ready
with all sorts of pleasant phrases. It is not often that one sees such a manly, robust figure,
such a handsome, ingenuous face, and such an air of agreeable repose. Easelmann was present,
retiring as usual, but with an acute eye that lost nothing while it seemed to be observing
nothing. Greenleaf was decidedly the lion. It was not merely his graceful person and regular
features that drew admiring glances upon him; the charm lay rather in an atmosphere of intellect
that surrounded him. His conversation, though by no means faultless, was marked by an energy
of phrase joined to an almost womanly delicacy and taste. His was the "hand of steel," but
clothed with the "glove of velvet." Easelmann followed him with a look half stealthy, half
comical, as he saw the unusual vivacity of the reigning beauty when in his immediate society.
Her voice took instinctively a softer and more musical tone; she showered her glances upon
him, dazzling and prismatic as the rays from her diamonds; she seemed determined to captivate
him without the tedious process of a siege. And, in truth, he must have been an unimpressible
man that could steel himself against the influence of a woman who satisfied every critical
sense, who piqued all his pride, who stimulated all that was most manly in his nature, and
without apparent effort filled his bosom with an exquisite intoxication.

The music commenced under Marcia's direction. There were piano solos that were not tedious,--full
of melody and feeling, and with few of the pyrotechnical displays which are too common in modern
virtuoso-playing; vocal duets and quartets from the Italian operas, and from Orfeo and other
German masterpieces; and solos, if not equal to the efforts of professional singers, highly
creditable to amateurs, to say the least. The auditors were enthusiastic in praise. Even Charles,
who came in late, declared the music "Vewy good, upon my soul,--surpwizingly good!"

Greenleaf was listening to Marcia, with a pleased smile on his face, when Mr. Sandford approached
and interrupted them.

"You are proficient in more than one art, I see. You paint as well as though you knew nothing
of music, and yet you sing like a man who has made it an exclusive study."

Greenleaf simply bowed.

"How do you come on with the picture?" Mr. Sandford continued.

"Very well, I believe."

"My dear Sir, make haste and finish it."

"I thought you were not in a hurry."

"Not in the least, my friend; but when you get that finished, you can paint others, which I
can probably dispose of for you."

"You are very kind."

"I speak as a business man," said Sandford, in a lower tone, at which Marcia withdrew. "The
arts fare badly in time of a money panic, and all the pictures you can sell now will be clear
gain."

"Are there signs of a panic?"

"Decidedly; the rates of interest are advancing daily, and no one knows where it will end.
Unless there is some relief in the market by Western remittances, the distress will be wide-spread
and severe."

"I am obliged to you for the hint. I have two or three pictures nearly done."

"I will look at them in a day or two, and try to find you purchasers."

Greenleaf expressed his thanks, warmly, and then walked towards Mrs. Sandford, who was sitting
alone at that moment.

"There is no knowing what Marcia may do," thought Sandford; "I have never seen her when she
appeared so much in earnest,--infatuated like a candle-fly. I hope she won't be fool enough
to marry a man without money. These artists are poor sheep; they have to be taken care of like
so many children. At all events, it won't cost much to keep him at work for the present. Meanwhile
she may change her mind."

Greenleaf was soon engaged in conversation with Mrs. Sandford. She had too much delicacy to
flatter him upon his singing, but naturally turned the current towards his art. Without depreciating
his efforts or the example of deservedly eminent American painters, she spoke with more emphasis
of the acknowledged masters; and as she dwelt with unaffected enthusiasm upon the delight she
had received from their immortal works, his old desire to visit Europe came upon him with redoubled
force. There was a calm strength in her thoughts and manner that moved him strangely. He saw
in a new light his thoughtless devotion to pleasure, and especially the foolish fascination
into which he had been led by a woman whom he could not marry and ought not to love. Mrs. Sandford
did not exhort, nor even advise; least of all did she allude to her sister-in-law. Hers was
only the influence of truth,--of broad ideas of life and its noblest ends, presented with simplicity
and a womanly tact above all art. It seemed to Greenleaf the voice of an angel that he heard,
so promptly did his conscience respond. He listened with heightening color and tense nerves;
the delirious languor of amatory music, and the delirium he had felt while under the spell
of Marcia's beauty, passed away. It seemed to him that he was lifted into a higher plane, whence
he saw before him the straight path of duty, leading away from the tempting gardens of pleasure,--where
he recognized immutable principles, and became conscious that his true affinities were not
with those who came in contact only with his sensuous nature. He had never understood himself
until now.

A long meditation, the reader thinks; but, in reality, it was only an electric current, awakening
a series of related thoughts; as a flash of lightning at night illumines at once a crowd of
objects in a landscape, which the mind perceives, but cannot follow in detail.

When, at length, Greenleaf looked up, he was astonished to find the room silent, and himself
with his companion in the focus of all eyes. Marcia looked on with a curiosity in which there
was perhaps a shade of apprehension. Easelmann relieved the momentary embarrassment by walking
towards his friend, with a meaning glance, and taking a seat near Mrs. Sandford.

"I can't allow this," said Easelmann. "You have had your share of Mrs. Sandford's time. It
is my turn. Besides, you will forget it all when you cross the room."

"Trust me, I shall never forget," said Greenleaf, with a marked emphasis, and a grateful look
towards the lovely widow.

"What's this? What's this?" said Easelmann, rapidly. "Insatiate trifler, could not one suffice?"

"Oh, we understand each other, perfectly," said Mrs. Sandford, in a placid tone.

"You do, eh? I should have interrupted you sooner. It might have saved my peace of mind, and
perhaps relieved some other anxieties I have witnessed. But go, now!" Greenleaf turned away
with a smile.

Marcia at once proposed a duet to conclude the entertainment, --Rossini's Mira bianca luna,--a
piece for which she had reserved her force, and in which she could display the best qualities
of her voice and style. Greenleaf had a high and pure tenor voice; he exerted himself to support
her, and with some success; the duet was a fitting close to a delightful and informal concert.
But he was thoroughly sobered; the effects he produced were from cool deliberation, rather
than the outbursts of an enthusiastic temper. Earlier in the evening the tones and the glances
of his companion would have sent fiery thrills along his nerves and lifted him above all self-control.

In the buzz of voices that followed, Marcia commenced a lively colloquy with Greenleaf, as
though she desired to leave him under the impressions with which the evening commenced. The
amusements of summer were discussed, the merits of watering-places and other fashionable resorts,
when Greenleaf accidentally mentioned that he and Easelmann were going presently to Nahant.

"Delightful!" she exclaimed, "to enjoy the ocean and coast-scenery after the rush of company
has left! While the fashionable season lasts, there is nothing but dress and gossip. You are
wise to avoid it."

"I think so," he replied. "Neither my tastes nor my pursuits incline me to mingle in what is
termed fashionable society. It makes too large demands upon one's time, to say nothing of the
expense or the unsatisfactory nature of its pleasures."

"I agree with you. So you are going to sketch. Would not you and Mr. Easelmann like some company?
You will not pore over your canvas all day, surely."

"We should be delighted; I should, certainly. And if you will look at my friend's face just
now, as he is talking to your beautiful sister-in-law, you will see that he would not object."

"Do you think Lydia is beautiful?" The tone was quiet, but the glance questioning.

"Not classically beautiful,--but one of the most lovely, engaging women I ever met."

"Yes,--she is charming, truly. I don't think her strikingly handsome, though; but tastes rarely
agree, you know. I only asked to ascertain your predilections."

"I understand," thought Greenleaf; but he made no further reply.

"Don't be surprised, if you see us before your stay is over,--that is, if Lydia and I can induce
Charles to go down with us. Henry is too busy, I suppose."

Charles passed just then; he was endeavoring to form a cotillon, declaring that talk was slow,
and, now that the music was over, a dance would be the thing.

"Charles, you will go to Nahant for a week,--won't you?"

"What! now?"

"In a day or two."

"Too cold, Sister Marcia; too late, altogether."

"But you were unwilling to go early in the season."

"Too early is as bad as too late; it is chilly there till the company comes. No billiards,
no hops, no pwetty girls, no sailing, no wides on the beach, no pwomenades on the moonlight
side of the piazza. No, my deah, Nahant is stupid till the curwent sets that way."

"Southern visitors warm the coast like the Gulf Stream, I suppose," said Greenleaf.

"Pwecisely so,"--then, after the idea had reached his brain, adding, "Vewy good, Mr. Gweenleaf!
Vewy good!"

The soirée ended as all seasons of pleasure must, and without the dance on which Charles had
set his heart. The friends walked home together. Greenleaf was rather silent, but Easelmann
at last made him talk.

"What do you think of the beauty, now?" the elder asked.

"Still brilliant, bewitching, dangerous."

"You are not afraid of her?"

"Upon my soul, I believe I am."

"What has frightened you? What faults or defects have you seen?"

"Two. One is, she uses perfumes too freely. Stop that laugh of yours! It's a trifling thing,
but it is an indication. I don't like it."

"Fastidious man, what next? Has she more hairs on one eyebrow than the other? Or did you see
a freckle of the size of a fly's foot?"

"The second is in her manner, which, in spite of its ease and apparent artlessness, has too
much method in it. Her suavity is no more studied than her raptures. She is frosted all over,--frosted
like a cake, I mean, and not with ice. And, to follow the image, I have no idea what sort of
a compound the tasteful confectionery covers."

"Well, if that is all, I think she has come out from under your scrutiny pretty well. I should
like to see the woman in whom you would not find as many faults."

"If a man does not notice trifles, he will never learn much of character. With women especially,
one should be as observing as a Huron on the trail of an enemy."

"Ferocious hunter, who supposed there were so many wiles in your simple heart?"

"Odd enough, there seemed to be a succession of warnings this evening. I was dazzled at first,
I own,--almost hopelessly smitten. But Sandford gave me a jolt by bringing in business; he
thinks there is to be a smash, and advises me to make hay while the sun shines. Then I talked
with Mrs. Sandford."

"Now we come to the interesting part--to me!"

"But I shan't gratify you, you mouser! It is enough to say, that in a few simple words, uttered,
I am sure, without forethought, she placed my frivolity before me, and then showed me what
I might and ought to be. I was like a grasshopper before, drunk with dew, and then sobered
by a plunge into a clear, cool spring. Besides, I have thought more about your advice in regard
to the lady, you dissembling old rascal! For you know that in such matters you never mean what
you say; and when you counsel me to fall in love with a coquette, you only wish me to be warned
in time and make good my escape. If it were light enough, I should see that grizzly moustache
of yours curl like a cat's, this minute. You can grin, you amiable Mephistopheles, but I know
you! No, my dear Easelmann, I am cured. I shall take hold of my pencils with new energy. I
will save money and go abroad, and----I had nearly forgotten her! I will take a new look at
my darling's sweet face in my pocket, and, like Ulysses, I'll put wax into my ears when I meet
the singing Siren again."

"I hope your rustic fiancée is not clairvoyant?"

"I hope not."

"If she is, she will cry her little eyes out to-night."

"Don't speak of it, I beg of you."

"You are getting lugubrious; we shall have to change the subject. Love affects people in as
many different ways as wine. Some are exalted,--their feet spurn the earth, their heads are
in the clouds; some pugnacious, walking about with a chip on the shoulder; others are stupidly
happy,--their faces wearing a sickly smile that becomes painful to look at; others again, like
you, melancholy as a wailing tenor in the last act of 'Lucia.' Like learning, a little draught
of love is dangerous; drink largely and be sober. The charmer will not cast so powerful a spell
upon you the next time, and you will come away more tranquil."

There was just the least shade of sarcasm in the tone, and Greenleaf, as usual, was a little
puzzled. For Easelmann was a study,--always agreeable, never untruthful, but fond of launching
an idea like a boomerang, to sweep away, apparently, but to return upon some unexpected curve.
His real meaning could not always be gathered from any isolated sentence; and to strangers
he was a living riddle. But Greenleaf had passed the excitable period, and had lapsed into
a state of moody repentance and grim resolution.

"You need not tempt me," he said, "even if that were your object, which I doubt, you sly fox!
And if you mean only to pique my pride in order to cure my inconstancy to my betrothed, I assure
you it is quite unnecessary. I shall have too much self-respect to place myself in the way
of temptation again."

"Now you are growing disagreeable; the virtuous resolutions of a diner-out, on the headachy
morning after, are never pleasant to hear. There is so much implied! One does not like to follow
the idea backward to its naughty source. The penitent should keep his sermons and soda-water
to himself."

"Well, here we are at home. We have walked a mile, and yet it seems but a furlong. If I were
not so disagreeable as you say, we would take another turn about the Common."

"Sleep will do you more good, my friend; and I think I'll go home. I haven't smoked since dinner.
Good night!"

Greenleaf went to his room, but not at once to sleep; his nerves were still too tremulous.
With the picture of Alice before him, he sat for hours in a dreamy reverie; and when at last
he went to bed, he placed the miniature under his pillow.

CHAPTER VIII.

A YOUNG FINANCIER AT HOME.

John Fletcher lived in a small, but neat house at the South End. Slender and youthful as he
looked, he was not a bachelor, but had a pretty, fragile-looking wife, to whom he was married
when only nineteen years of age. Such a union could have been brought about only by what the
world calls an indiscretion, or from an unreflecting, hasty impulse. Girl as Mrs. Fletcher
seemed to be, she was not without prudence as a housekeeper; and as far as she could command
her inconstant temper, she made home attractive to her husband. But neither of them had the
weight of character to act as a counterpoise to the vacillation of the other. It was not a
sun and a planet, the one wheeling about the other, nor yet were they double stars, revolving
about a centre common to both; their movements were like nothing so much as the freaks of a
couple of pith-balls electrically excited, at one time drawn furiously together, and then capriciously
repelling each other. Their loves, caresses, spats, quarrels, poutings, and reconciliations
were as uncertain as the vagaries of the weather, as little guided by sense or reason as the
passions of early childhood. On one subject they agreed at all times, and that was to pet and
spoil most thoroughly their infant daughter, a puny, weak-voiced, slender-limbed, curly-haired
child, with the least possible chance of living to the age of womanhood.

Fletcher was confidential clerk to the great banking-house of Foggarty, Danforth, and Dot.
The senior partner rarely took any active part in business, but left it to the management of
Danforth and Dot. Danforth had the active brain to plan, Dot the careful, cool faculty to execute.
Fletcher had a good salary,--so large that he could always reserve a small margin for "outside
operations," by which in one way or another he generally contrived to lose.

The god he worshipped was Chance; by which I do not refer at all to any theory of the creation
of matter, but to the course and order of human affairs. His drawers were full of old lottery-schemes;
he did not long buy tickets, because he was too shrewd; but he made endless calculations upon
the probability of drawing prizes,--provided the tickets were really all sold, and the wheel
fairly managed. A dice-box was always at hand upon the mantel. He had portraits of celebrated
racers, both quadruped and biped, and he could tell the fastest time ever made by either. His
manipulation of cards was, as his friends averred, one of the fine arts; and in all the games
he had wrought out problems of chances, and knew the probability of every contingency. A stock-list
was always tacked above his secretary, and another constantly in his pocket. And this evening
he had brought home a revolving disk, having figures of various values engraved around its
edge, carefully poised, with a hair-spring pointer, like a hand on a dial-plate.

"What have you got, John?" asked his wife.

"Only a toy, a plaything, deary. See it spin!" and he gave the disk a whirl.

"But what is it for?"

"Oh, nothing in particular. I thought we could amuse ourselves in turning it for the largest
throws."

"Is that all? It is a heavy thing, and must have cost a good lot of money."

"Not much. Now see! You know I have tried to show you how chance rules the world; and if you
once get the chances in your favor, all is right. Now suppose we take this wheel, and on the
number 2,000 we paste 'Michigan Central,' 'Western' over 1,000, 'Vermont and Massachusetts'
over 500, 'Cary Improvement' over 400, and so on. Now, after a certain number of revolutions,
by keeping account, we get the chance of each stock to come up."

"I don't understand."

"I don't suppose you do; you don't give your mind to it, as I do."

"But you know you had the same notion once about cards, and pasted the names of the stocks
on the court cards; and then you shuffled and cut and dealt and turned up, night after night."

"Little doxy! small piece of property! you'd best attend to that baby, and other matters that
you know something about."

The "little doxy" felt strongly inclined to cry, but she kept back the sobs and said, "You
know, John, how sullen and almost hateful you were before, when you were bewitched after those
mean stocks. I don't think you should meddle with such things; they are too big for you. Let
the rich fools gamble, if they want to; if they lose, they can afford it, and nobody cares
but to laugh at them. Oh, John, you promised me you wouldn't gamble any more."

"Well, I don't gamble. I haven't been to a faro bank for a year. I stay away just to please
you, although I know all the chances, and could break the bank as easy as falling off a log."

"You don't gamble, you say, but you are uneasy till you put all your money at risk on those
paper things. I don't see the difference."

"You needn't see the difference; nobody asked you to see the difference. Gamble, indeed! there
isn't a man on the street that doesn't keep an eye on the paper things, as you call them."

"You see what I told you. You are cross. You like anything better (a sob) than your poor (another)
neglected wife."

The sobs now thickened into a cry, and, with streaming eyes, she picked up the puny child and
declared she was going to bed. To this proposal the moody man emphatically assented. But as
Mrs. Fletcher passed near her husband, the child reached out its slender arms and caught hold
of him by his cravat, screaming, "Papa! papa! I stay, papa!"

"Let go!" roughly exclaimed the amiable father. But she held the tighter, and shouted, "Papa!
my papa!"

What sudden freak overcame his anger probably not even Fletcher himself could tell. But, turning
towards his wife, who was supporting the child, whose little fingers still held him fast, his
face cleared instantly, and, with a sudden movement, he drew the surprised and delighted woman
down upon his knee, and loaded her with every form of childish endearment. Her tears and sorrows
vanished together, like the dew.

"Little duck," said he, "if I were alone, I shouldn't care for any more money. I know I can
always take care of myself. But for your sake I want to be independent,--rich, if you please.
I want to be free. I want to meet that wily, smooth, plausible, damned, respectable villain
face to face, and with as much money as he."

His eyes danced with a furious light and motion, and the fringy moustache trembled over his
thin and sensitive mouth. But in a moment he repented the outbreak; for his wife's face blanched
then, and the tears leaped from her eyes.

"Oh, John," she exclaimed, "what is this awful secret? I know that something is killing you.
You mutter in sleep; you are sullen at times; and then you break out in this dreadful way."

Fletcher meditated. "I can't tell her; 'twould kill her, and not do any good either. No, one
good streak of luck will set me up where I can defy him. I'll grin and bear it."

"What is it, John? Tell your poor little wife!"

"Oh, nothing, my dear. I do some business for Sandford, who is apt to be domineering,--that's
all. To-day he provoked me, and when I am mad it does me good to swear; it's as natural as
lightning out of a black cloud."

"It may do you good to swear, John; but it makes the cold chills run over me. Why do you have
anything to do with anybody that treats you so? You are so changed from what you were! Oh,
John, something is wrong, I know. Your face looks sharp and inquiring. You are thin and uneasy.
There's a wrinkle in your cheek, that used to be as smooth as a girl's."

She patted his face softly, as it rested on her shoulder; but he made no reply save by an absent,
half-audible whistle.

"You don't answer me, John, dear!"

"I've nothing especial to say, doxy,--only that I will wind up with Sandford as soon as we
finish the business in hand."

"The business in hand? Has he anything to do with Foggarty, Danforth, and Dot?"

Fletcher was not skilful under cross-examination. So he simply answered, "No," and then stopping
her mouth with kisses, promised to explain the matter another day.

"Well, John, I am tired; I think I'll take baby and go to bed. Don't sit up and get blue over
your troubles!"

As she left the room, Fletcher drew a long breath. What an accent of despair was borne on that
sigh! His busy brain was active in laying plans which his vacillating will could never execute
without help. Often before, he had determined to confront Sandford and defy him; but as often
he had quailed before that self-possessed and imperious man. What hope was there, then, for
this timid, crouching man, as long as the hand of his haughty master was outstretched in command?
None!

CHAPTER IX.

STATE STREET.

The stringency of the money-market began to frighten even Mr. Sandford who had been predicting
a panic. There had been but few failures, and those were generally of houses that ought to
fail, being insolvent from losses or mismanagement. Mr. Sandford studied over his sheet of
bills payable and receivable almost hourly. The amount intrusted to him by Monroe had been
loaned out; for which he was now very sorry, as the rate of interest had nearly doubled since
he made the last agreement. This, however, was but a small item in his accounts; other transactions
of greater magnitude occupied his attention. As he looked over the array of promisors and indorsers,
he said to himself, "I am safe. If these men fail, it will be because the universal bottom
has dropped out and chaos come again. If anybody is shaky, it is Stearine. He believes, though,
that Bullion will help him through, and extend that note. Perhaps he will. Perhaps, again,
he will have enough to do to keep on his own legs. He fancies himself strong because he owns
the most of the Neversink Mills. But he doesn't know what I know, that Kerbstone, the treasurer
of the Mills, is in the street every day, looking like a gambler when his last dollar is on
the table. A few more turns of the screw and down goes Kerbstone. Who knows that the Mills
won't tumble, too, and Bullion after them? He may go hang; but we must look after Stearine,
and prop him, unnecessary. That twenty thousand is more than we can afford to lose just now.
Lucky, there he comes!"

Mr. Stearine entered, not with his usual smile, but with an expression like that of a man trying
to be jolly with the toothache. A short, but dexterous cross-examination showed to Sandford,
that, if the twenty-thousand-dollar note could be extended over to better times, Stearine was
safe. But the note was soon due, and Bullion might be unable or unwilling to renew; in which
case, the Vortex would have to meet it. That was a contingency to be provided against; for
Mr. Sandford did not intend that the public should know that the credit of the Company had
been used for private purposes by its officers. He therefore called in Mr. Fayerweather, the
President, and the affair was talked over and settled between them.

"One thing more," said Sandford. "Suppose any one should get wind of this, and grow suspicious;--Bullion
himself might be foolish enough to let the cat out of the bag;--we might find the shares of
the Vortex in the market, and the bears running them down to an uncomfortable figure."

"True enough. We must stop that."

"The only way is to keep a sharp lookout, and if any of the stock is offered, to buy it up.
Half a dozen of us can take all that will be likely to come into market."

"How many shares do you own, Sandford?" asked Mr. Fayerweather, with a quizzical look. "Is
this a nice little scheme of yours to run them off at par? It's a shrewd dodge."

"You do me wrong," said Sandford, with a look of wounded innocence. "I merely want to sustain
the credit of the Company."

"Oh, no doubt!" said the President. "Well, we will agree, then, not to let the shares fall
below ninety, say. It would be suspicious, I think, to hold them higher than that, when money
is two and a half per cent. a month."

"Very well. You will see to this? Be careful what men you speak to."

Mr. Sandford, being left alone, bethought him of Monroe. He did not wish to give him a statement
of affairs; he had put him off once, and must find some way to satisfy him. How was it to be
done? The financier meditated. "I have it," said he; "I'll send him a quarter's interest in
advance. That's as much as I can spare in these times, when interest grows like those miraculous
pumpkin-vines out West." He drew a check for two hundred dollars, and dispatched it to Monroe
by letter.

So Mr. Sandford had all things snug. The Vortex was going on under close-reefed topsails. If
the notes he held were paid as they matured, he would have money for new operations; if not,
he had arranged that the debtors should be piloted over the bar and anchored in safely till
the storm should blow over. Everything was secured, as far as human foresight could anticipate.

Mr. Sandford had now but little use for Fletcher's services, except to look after his debtors,--to
know who was "shinning" in the street, or "kite-flying" with accommodation-paper. Still he
did not admit the agent into his confidence. But this active and scheming mind was not long
without employment. Mr. Bullion had seen him in frequent communication with Sandford, and thereby
formed a high opinion of his shrewdness and tact; for he knew that Sandford was very wary in
selecting his associates. He sought Fletcher.

"Young man," said Bullion, pointing his wisp of an eyebrow at him, "do you want a job? Few
words and keep mum. Yes or no?"

"Yes," said Fletcher, decidedly.

"I like your pluck," said Bullion.

"It doesn't take much pluck to follow Mr. Bullion's lead."

"None of your nonsense. How do you know anything about me, or what I am going to do? I may
fail to-morrow,--God forbid!--but when the wind comes, it's the tall trees that are knocked over."

Fletcher thought the comparison rather ludicrous for a man standing on such remarkably short
pegs, but he said nothing.

"I mean to sell a few shares of stock, and I want you to do the business. I am not to be known
in it."

Fletcher bowed, and asked what the stocks were.

"No matter; any you can sell to advantage. I haven't a share, but I needn't tell you that doesn't
make any difference."

"Let me understand you clearly," said Fletcher.

"Sell under. For instance, take a stock that sells to-day at ninety-four; offer to deliver
it five days hence at ninety. To-morrow offer it a peg lower, and so on, till the market is
easier. When the first contract is up, we shall get the stock at eighty-eight, or less, perhaps,--deliver
to the buyers, and pocket the difference."

"But it may not fall."

"It's bound to fall. People that hold stock must sell to pay their notes. Every day brings
a fresh lot of shares to the hammer."

"But the bulls may corner you; they will try mightily to keep prices up."

"But they can't corner, I tell you; there are too many of them in distress. Besides, we'll
spread; we won't put all our eggs into one basket. If I stuck to 'bearing' one stock, the holders
might get all the shares and break me by keeping them so that I couldn't comply with my contracts.
I shan't do it. I'll pitch into the 'fancies' mainly; they are held by speculators, who must
be short, and they'll come down with a run."

"How deep shall I go in?"

"Fifty thousand, to begin with. However, there won't be many transfers actually made; the bulls
will merely pay the differences."

"Or else waddle out of the street lame ducks."

Bullion rubbed his hands, while his eyes shone with a colder glitter.

"Well, you are a bear, truly," said Fletcher, with unfeigned admiration,--"a real Ursa Major."

"To be sure, I'm a bear. What's the use in being a bull in times like these, to be skinned
and sold for your hide and tallow?"

"The market is falling, and no mistake."

"Yes, and will fall lower. Stocks haven't been down since '37 so low as you will see them a
month from now."

Fletcher bowed----and waited. Bullion pointed the eyebrow again.

"You don't want to begin on an uncertainty. I see. Sharp. Proper enough. I'll give you ten
per cent. of the profits,--you to pay the commissions. Each day's work to be set down, and
at the end of each week I'll give you a note for your share. That do? I thought it would. I
offer a liberal figure, for I think you know something, youngster. Use your judgment, now.
Consult me, of course; but mum's the word. If any stock is pushed in, lay hold, and don't be
afraid. The holders must sell, and they must sacrifice. We'll skin 'em, by G--," said Bullion,
with an excitement that was rare in a cool, hard head like his. Then thinking he had been too
outspoken, he resumed his former concise manner.

"All fair, you know. Bargain is a bargain. They must sell; we won't buy, without we buy cheap;
their loss, to be sure, but our gain. All trade on the same plan. Seller gets the most he can;
buyer pays only what he must."

"That's it," said Fletcher. "Every man for himself in this world."

"Well, good morning, young man. Sharp's the word. Call at my office this afternoon." And, with
a queer sweep of the pointed eyebrow, he departed.

What visions of opulence rose before Fletcher's fancy! He would now lay the foundations of
his fortune, and, perhaps, accomplish it. He would become a power in State Street; and, best
of all, he would escape from his slavery to Sandford, and perhaps even patronize the haughty
man he had so long served. How to begin? He could not attend the sales at the Brokers' Board
in person, as he was not a member. Should he confide in Danforth? No,--for, with his relations
to the house, his own share in the profits would be whittled down. He determined to employ
Tonsor, an old acquaintance, who would be glad to buy and sell for the regular commissions.
The preliminaries were speedily concluded, and a list of stocks made out on which to operate.
The excitement was almost too great for Fletcher to bear. As he counted the piles of bank-bills
on his employers' counter, or stacked up heaps of coin, in his ordinary business, he fancied
himself another Ali Baba, in a cave to which he had found the Open Sesame, and he could hardly
contain himself till the time should come when he should take possession of his unimaginable
wealth. He had built air-castles before, but never one so magnificent, so real. He could have
hugged Bullion, bear as he was.--We leave Fletcher and his principal on the high road to success.

CHAPTER X.

THE SIREN COMES TO THE SEA-SHORE.

Greenleaf worked assiduously upon his landscapes, and, notwithstanding the pressure in the
money-market, was fortunate enough to dispose of them to gentlemen whose incomes were not affected
by the vicissitudes of business. For this he was principally indebted to Sandford, who took
pains to bring his works to the notice of connoisseurs. But, with all his success, the object
of his ambition was as far off as at first. Imperceptibly he had acquired expensive habits.
He was not prodigal, not extravagant; but, having a keen sense of the beautiful, he gradually
became more fastidious in dress, and in all those nameless elegancies which seem of right to
belong to the accomplished man, as to the gentleman in easy circumstances. This desire for
ease and luxury did not conflict with simplicity; he seemed born for all the enjoyment which
the most cultivated society could bestow. He had the power to spend the income of a fortune
worthily; unhappily, he did not have it to spend. He had written constantly to his betrothed,
and when he told her of the prices he had received for his pictures, he was at a loss how to
make her comprehend the new relations into which he had grown,--to explain that he was practically
as poor as when he first came to the city. How could he assure her of his desire to end the
engagement in marriage, if he spoke of postponement now that he had an income beyond his first
expectations? Imperceptibly to himself, his letters became more like intellectual conversations,
or essays, rather,--pleasant enough in themselves, but far different from the simple and fervent
epistles he wrote while the memory of Alice was fresher. She felt this, although she had not
reasoned upon it, and her sensitive womanly heart was full of vague forebodings.

Would he confess to himself, that, as he looked at her cherished picture, another face, with
a more brilliant air and a more dazzling beauty, came between him and the silent image before
him? Dared he to think, that, in his frequent visits to Miss Sandford, the ties which bound
him to his betrothed were daily weakening?--that he found a charm in the very caprices and
waywardness of the new love, which the unvarying constancy and placid affection of the old
had never created? The one put her heart unreservedly into his keeping; she knew nothing of
concealment, and he read her as he would an unsophisticated child; there was not a nook or
cranny in her heart, he thought, that he had not explored. The other was full of surprises;
she had as many phases as an April day; and from mere curiosity, if from no other motive, Greenleaf
was piqued to follow on to understand her real character. The apprehensions he felt at first
wore away; he became accustomed to her measured sentences and her apparently artificial manner.
What seemed affectation now became a natural expression. The secret influence she exerted increased,
and, at length, possessed him wholly while in her company. It drew him as the moon draws the
tides, silently, unconsciously, but with a power he could not resist. It was only when he was
away from her that he could reason himself into a belief in his independence.

Greenleaf and Easelmann were at Nahant at the close of the season. A few straggling visitors
only remained; the fashionable world had returned to the city. The friends wandered over the
rocky peninsula, walked the long beach that leads to the main land, sketched the sea from the
shore, and the shore from the sea, and watched and transferred the changing phases of Nature
in sunshine and in storm. They were fortunate enough to see one magnificent tempest, by which
the ocean was lashed into fury, breaking in thunder over the rugged coast-line, and dashing
spray sheer over the huge back of Egg Rock.

Miss Sandford's threat was carried into execution; the family came to the hotel, and, for a
week, Greenleaf and his friend were most devoted in their attentions. Marcia was charmed with
their sketches, and, with a tact as delicate as it is rare, gave them time for their cherished
pursuits, and planned excursions only for their unemployed hours. They collected colored mosses,
star-fish, and other marine curiosities; they sailed, fished, scampered over the rocks, drove
over the beach at twilight, sang, danced, and bowled. And when weary of active amusement, they
reclined on the grass and listened to the melancholy rote of the sea,--the steady pulsations
of its mighty heart.

Easelmann, with his usual raillery, congratulated his friend on his prospects, and declared
that the pupil was surpassing the teacher in the beau's arts.

"Finely, Greenleaf! You are just coming to the interesting part of the process. You are a little
flushed, however,--not quite cool enough. A wily adversary she is; if you allow your feelings
to run away with you, it's all up. She will hold the reins as coolly as you held your trotting
pony yesterday. Keep the bits out of your mouth, my boy."

"Don't trouble yourself. I shall keep cool. I am not going to make a fool of myself by proposing."

"Oh, you aren't? We shall see. But she'll refuse you, and then you'll come to your senses."

"I'm deusedly afraid she would accept me."

"The vanity of mankind! Don't tell me that women are vain. Every man thinks himself irresistible,--that
he has only to call, to have the women come round him like colts around a farmer with a measure
of corn. Shake the kernels in your dish, and cry, 'Kerjock!' Perhaps she will come."

"I suppose you think, with Hosea Bigelow, that

  "''Ta'n't a knowin' kind o' cattle
   That is ketched with mouldy corn.'"

"I needn't tell you that Marcia Sandford is knowing,--too knowing to let an enthusiastic lover
relapse into a humdrum husband. You amuse her now: for she likes to enjoy poetry and sentiment,
dances, rides, and rambles, in company with a man of fresh susceptibilities;--a good phrase
that, 'fresh susceptibilities.'--The instant you become serious and ask her to marry you, the
dream is over; she will hate you."

"Well, what is to become of a lady like this,--a creature you think too bright, if not too
good, for human nature's daily food?"

"An easy prophecy. The destiny of a pretty woman is to catch lovers."

"'The cat doth play, and after slay,'" said Greenleaf, laughing.

"Play while you can, my dear boy; if she is a cat, you'll get the final coup soon enough. To
finish the fortune-telling,--she will continue her present delightful pursuits as long as youth
and beauty last; and the beauty will last a long time after the youth has gone. She may pick
up some young man of fortune and marry him; but it is not likely; the rich always marry the
rich. Just this side of the blasé period, while still in the fulness of her charms, she will
open her battery of smiles upon some wealthy old widower and compel him to place her at the
head of his establishment. Then, with a secure position and increased facilities, she will
draw new throngs of admirers, as long as she has power to fascinate, or until there are no
more fools left."

"A pleasing picture of domestic felicity for the husband!"

"Precisely what he deserves. When an old fool marries a young flirt, he deserves to wear whatever
honors she may bestow upon him."

"Do you remember how you artfully persuaded me into this intimacy? And now you are making game
of me for following your own suggestions."

"Me? I never suggest; I never persuade."

"You did, you crafty old fox! You advised me to fall in love with her."

"Did I? Well, I think now you have gone far enough. A sip from the cup of enchantment is quite
sufficient; you needn't swallow the whole of it."

"But people can't always control themselves. Can you trust yourself to stop this side of insensibility,
when you take ether? or be sure you won't get drunk, if you commence the evening with a party
of dissipated fellows?"

"That will do, my friend. I know there are people who are fond of confessing their weakness;
don't you do it. Where is the supremacy of mind and will, and all that nonsense, if a man can't
amuse himself with a clever woman's artifices without tumbling into the snare he is watching?"

"We'll see how you succeed with the charming widow,--whether the wise man, when his own jecur
is pierced with the arrow, may not show it, as well as other people. And by-the-by, you will
have an excellent opportunity for your experiment. Marcia and I are going to take a sail this
afternoon, and you can entertain Mrs. Sandford while we are gone."

Easelmann softly whistled. Something in the school-girl way, I believe. We shall see.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MINISTER'S WOOING.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER IV.

THEOLOGICAL TEA.

At the call of her mother, Mary hurried into the "best room," with a strange discomposure of
spirit she had never felt before. From childhood, her love for James had been so deep, equable,
and intense, that it had never disturbed her with thrills and yearnings; it had grown up in
sisterly calmness, and, quietly expanding, had taken possession of her whole nature, without
her once dreaming of its power. But this last interview seemed to have struck some great nerve
of her being,--and calm as she usually was, from habit, principle, and good health, she shivered
and trembled, as she heard his retreating footsteps, and saw the orchard-grass fly back from
under his feet. It was as if each step trod on a nerve,--as if the very sound of the rustling
grass was stirring something living and sensitive in her soul. And, strangest of all, a vague
impression of guilt hovered over her. Had she done anything wrong? She did not ask him there;
she had not spoken love to him; no, she had only talked to him of his soul, and how she would
give hers for his,--oh, so willingly!--and that was not love; it was only what Dr. H. said
Christians must always feel.

"Child, what have you been doing?" said Aunt Katy, who sat in full flowing chintz petticoat
and spotless dimity shortgown, with her company knitting-work in her hands; "your cheeks are
as red as peonies. Have you been crying? What's the matter?"

"There is the Deacon's wife, mother," said Mary, turning confusedly, and darting to the entry-door.

Enter Mrs. Twitchel,--a soft, pillowy little elderly lady, whose whole air and dress reminded
one of a sack of feathers tied in the middle with a string. A large, comfortable pocket, hung
upon the side, disclosed her knitting-work ready for operation; and she zealously cleansed
herself with a checked handkerchief from the dust which had accumulated during her ride in
the old "one-hoss shay," answering the hospitable salutation of Katy Scudder in that plaintive,
motherly voice which belongs to certain nice old ladies, who appear to live in a state of mild
chronic compassion for the sins and sorrows of this mortal life generally.

"Why, yes, Miss Scudder, I'm pretty tol'able. I keep goin', and goin'. That's my way. I's a-tellin'
the Deacon, this-mornin', I didn't see how I was to come here this afternoon; but then I did
want to see Miss Scudder and talk a little about that precious sermon, Sunday. How is the Doctor?
blessed man! Well, his reward must be great in heaven, if not on earth, as I was a-tellin'
the Deacon; and he says to me, says he, 'Polly, we mustn't be man-worshippers.' There, dear,"
(to Mary,) "don't trouble yourself about my bonnet; it a'n't my Sunday one, but I thought 'twould
do. Says I to Cerinthy Ann, 'Miss Scudder won't mind, 'cause her heart's set on better things.'
I always like to drop a word in season to Cerinthy Ann, 'cause she's clean took up with vanity
and dress. Oh, dear! oh, dear me! so different from your blessed daughter, Miss Scudder! Well,
it's a great blessin' to be called in one's youth, like Samuel and Timothy; but then we doesn't
know the Lord's ways. Sometimes I gets clean discouraged with my children,--but then ag'in
I don't know; none on us does. Cerinthy Ann is one of the most master hands to turn off work;
she takes hold and goes along like a woman, and nobody never knows when that gal finds the
time to do all she does do; and I don't know nothin' what I should do without her. Deacon was
saying, if ever she was called, she'd be a Martha, and not a Mary; but then she's dreadful
opposed to the doctrines. Oh, dear me! oh, dear me! Somehow they seem to rile her all up; and
she was a-tellin' me yesterday, when she was a-hangin' out clothes, that she never should get
reconciled to Decrees and 'Lection, 'cause she can't see, if things is certain, how folks is
to help 'emselves. Says I, 'Cerinthy Ann, folks a'n't to help 'emselves; they's to submit unconditional.'
And she jest slammed down the clothes-basket and went into the house."

When Mrs. Twitchel began to talk, it flowed a steady stream, as when one turns a faucet, that
never ceases running till some hand turns it back again; and the occasion that cut the flood
short at present was the entrance of Mrs. Brown.

Mr. Simeon Brown was a thriving shipowner of Newport, who lived in a large house, owned several
negro-servants and a span of horses, and affected some state and style in his worldly appearance.
A passion for metaphysical Orthodoxy had drawn Simeon to the congregation of Dr. H., and his
wife of course stood by right in a high place there. She was a tall, angular, somewhat hard-favored
body, dressed in a style rather above the simple habits of her neighbors, and her whole air
spoke the great woman, who in right of her thousands expected to have her say in all that was
going on in the world, whether she understood it or not.

On her entrance, mild little Mrs. Twitchel fled from the cushioned rocking-chair, and stood
with the quivering air of one who feels she has no business to be anywhere in the world, until
Mrs. Brown's bonnet was taken and she was seated, when Mrs. Twitchel subsided into a corner
and rattled her knitting-needles to conceal her emotion.

New England has been called the land of equality; but what land upon earth is wholly so? Even
the mites in a bit of cheese, naturalists say, have great tumblings and strivings about position
and rank; he who has ten pounds will always be a nobleman to him who has but one, let him strive
as manfully as he may; and therefore let us forgive meek little Mrs. Twitchel for melting into
nothing in her own eyes when Mrs. Brown came in, and let us forgive Mrs. Brown that she sat
down in the rocking-chair with an easy grandeur, as one who thought it her duty to be affable
and meant to be. It was, however, rather difficult for Mrs. Brown, with her money, house, negroes,
and all, to patronize Mrs. Katy Scudder, who was one of those women whose natures seem to sit
on thrones, and who dispense patronage and favor by an inborn right and aptitude, whatever
be their social advantages. It was one of Mrs. Brown's trials of life, this secret, strange
quality in her neighbor, who stood apparently so far below her in worldly goods. Even the quiet,
positive style of Mrs. Katy's knitting made her nervous; it was an implication of independence
of her sway; and though on the present occasion every customary courtesy was bestowed, she
still felt, as she always did when Mrs. Katy's guest, a secret uneasiness. She mentally contrasted
the neat little parlor, with its white sanded floor and muslin curtains, with her own grand
front-room, which boasted the then uncommon luxuries of Turkey carpet and Persian rug, and
wondered if Mrs. Katy did really feel as cool and easy in receiving her as she appeared.

You must not understand that this was what Mrs. Brown supposed herself to be thinking about;
oh, no! by no means! All the little, mean work of our nature is generally done in a small dark
closet just a little back of the subject we are talking about, on which subject we suppose
ourselves of course to be thinking;--of course we are thinking of it; how else could we talk
about it?

The subject in discussion, and what Mrs. Brown supposed to be in her own thoughts, was the
last Sunday's sermon on the doctrine of entire Disinterested Benevolence, in which good Doctor
H. had proclaimed to the citizens of Newport their duty of being so wholly absorbed in the
general good of the universe as even to acquiesce in their own final and eternal destruction,
if the greater good of the whole might thereby be accomplished.

"Well, now, dear me!" said Mrs. Twitchel, while her knitting-needles trotted contentedly to
the mournful tone of her voice,--"I was tellin' the Deacon, if we only could get there! Sometimes
I think I get a little way,--but then ag'in I don't know; but the Deacon he's quite down,--he
don't see no evidences in himself. Sometimes he says he don't feel as if he ought to keep his
place in the church,--but then ag'in he don't know. He keeps a-turnin' and turnin' on't over
in his mind, and a-tryin' himself this way and that way; and he says he don't see nothin' but
what's selfish, no way.

"'Member one night last winter, after the Deacon got warm in bed, there come a rap at the door;
and who should it be but old Beulah Ward, wantin' to see the Deacon?--'twas her boy she sent,
and he said Beulah was sick and hadn't no more wood nor candles. Now I know'd the Deacon had
carried that crittur half a cord of wood, if he had one stick, since Thanksgivin', and I'd
sent her two o' my best moulds of candles,--nice ones that Cerinthy Ann run when we killed
a crittur; but nothin' would do but the Deacon must get right out his warm bed and dress himself,
and hitch up his team to carry over some wood to Beulah. Says I, 'Father, you know you'll be
down with the rheumatis for this; besides, Beulah is real aggravatin'. I know she trades off
what we send her to the store for rum, and you never get no thanks. She 'xpects, 'cause we
has done for her, we always must; and more we do, more we may do.' And says he to me, says
he, 'That's jest the way we sarves the Lord, Polly; and what if He shouldn't hear us when we
call on Him in our troubles?' So I shet up; and the next day he was down with the rheumatis.
And Cerinthy Ann, says she, 'Well, father, now I hope you'll own you have got some disinterested
benevolence,' says she; and the Deacon he thought it over a spell, and then he says, 'I'm 'fraid
it's all selfish. I'm jest a-makin' a righteousness of it.' And Cerinthy Ann she come out,
declarin' that the best folks never had no comfort in religion; and for her part she didn't
mean to trouble her head about it, but have jest as good a time as she could while she's young,
'cause if she was 'lected to be saved she should be, and if she wa'n't she couldn't help it,
any how."

"Mr. Brown says he came onto Dr. H.'s ground years ago," said Mrs. Brown, giving a nervous
twitch to her yarn, and speaking in a sharp, hard, didactic voice, which made little Mrs. Twitchel
give a gentle quiver, and look humble and apologetic. "Mr. Brown's a master thinker; there's
nothing pleases that man better than a hard doctrine; he says you can't get 'em too hard for
him. He don't find any difficulty in bringing his mind up; he just reasons it out all plain;
and he says, people have no need to be in the dark; and that's my opinion. 'If folks know they
ought to come up to anything, why don't they?' he says; and I say so too."

"Mr. Scudder used to say that it took great afflictions to bring his mind to that place," said
Mrs. Katy. "He used to say that an old paper-maker told him once, that paper that was shaken
only one way in the making would tear across the other, and the best paper had to be shaken
every way; and so he said we couldn't tell, till we had been turned and shaken and tried every
way, where we should tear."

Mrs. Twitchel responded to this sentiment with a gentle series of groans, such as were her
general expression of approbation, swaying herself backward and forward; while Mrs. Brown gave
a sort of toss and snort, and said that for her part she always thought people knew what they
did know,--but she guessed she was mistaken.

The conversation was here interrupted by the civilities attendant on the reception of Mrs.
Jones,--a broad, buxom, hearty soul, who had come on horseback from a farm about three miles
distant.

Smiling with rosy content, she presented Mrs. Katy a small pot of golden butter,--the result
of her forenoon's churning.

There are some people so evidently broadly and heartily of this world, that their coming into
a room always materializes the conversation. We wish to be understood that we mean no disparaging
reflection on such persons;--they are as necessary to make up a world as cabbages to make up
a garden; the great healthy principles of cheerfulness and animal life seem to exist in them
in the gross; they are wedges and ingots of solid, contented vitality. Certain kinds of virtues
and Christian graces thrive in such people as the first crop of corn does in the bottom-lands
of the Ohio. Mrs. Jones was a church-member, a regular church-goer, and planted her comely
person plump in front of Dr. H. every Sunday, and listened to his searching and discriminating
sermons with broad, honest smiles of satisfaction. Those keen distinctions as to motives, those
awful warnings and urgent expostulations, which made poor Deacon Twitchel weep, she listened
to with great, round, satisfied eyes, making to all, and after all, the same remark,--that
it was good, and she liked it, and the Doctor was a good man; and on the present occasion,
she announced her pot of butter as one fruit of her reflections after the last discourse.

"You see," she said, "as I was a-settin' in the spring-house, this mornin', a-workin' my butter,
I says to Dinah,--'I'm goin' to carry a pot of this down to Miss Scudder for the Doctor,--I
got so much good out of his Sunday's sermon. And Dinah she says to me, says she,--'Laws, Miss
Jones. I thought you was asleep, for sartin!' But I wasn't; only I forgot to take any caraway-seed
in the mornin', and so I kinder missed it; you know it 'livens one up. But I never lost myself
so but what I kinder heerd him goin' on, on, sort o' like,--and it sounded all sort o' good;
and so I thought of the Doctor to-day."

"Well, I'm sure," said Aunt Katy, "this will be a treat; we all know about your butter, Mrs.
Jones. I sha'n't think of putting any of mine on table to-night, I'm sure."

"Law, now don't!" said Mrs. Jones. "Why, you re'lly make me ashamed, Miss Scudder. To be sure,
folks does like our butter, and it always fetches a pretty good price,--he's very proud on't.
I tell him he oughtn't to be,--we oughtn't to be proud of anything."

And now Mrs. Katy, giving a look at the old clock, told Mary it was time to set the tea-table;
and forthwith there was a gentle movement of expectancy. The little mahogany tea-table opened
its brown wings, and from a drawer came forth the snowy damask covering. It was etiquette,
on such occasions, to compliment every article of the establishment successively, as it appeared;
so the Deacon's wife began at the table-cloth.

"Well, I do declare, Miss Scudder beats us all in her table-cloths," she said, taking up a
corner of the damask, admiringly; and Mrs. Jones forthwith jumped up and seized the other corner.

"Why, this 'ere must have come from the Old Country. It's 'most the beautiflest thing I ever
did see."

"It's my own spinning," replied Mrs. Katy, with conscious dignity. "There was an Irish weaver
came to Newport the year before I was married, who wove beautifully,--just the Old-Country
patterns,--and I'd been spinning some uncommonly fine flax then. I remember Mr. Scudder used
to read to me while I was spinning,"--and Aunt Katy looked afar, as one whose thoughts are
in the past, and dropped out the last words with a little sigh, unconsciously, as to herself.

"Well, now, I must say," said Mrs. Jones, "this goes quite beyond me. I thought I could spin
some; but I sha'n't never dare to show mine."

"I'm sure, Mrs. Jones, your towels that you had out bleaching, this spring, were wonderful,"
said Aunt Katy. "But I don't pretend to do much now," she continued, straightening her trim
figure. "I'm getting old, you know; we must let the young folks take up these things. Mary
spins better now than I ever did. Mary, hand out those napkins."

And so Mary's napkins passed from hand to hand.

"Well, well," said Mrs. Twitchel to Mary, "it's easy to see that your linen-chest will be pretty
full by the time he comes along; won't it, Miss Jones?"--and Mrs. Twitchel looked pleasantly
facetious, as elderly ladies generally do, when suggesting such possibilities to younger ones.

Mary was vexed to feel the blood boil up in her cheeks in a most unexpected and provoking way
at the suggestion; whereat Mrs. Twitchel nodded knowingly at Mrs. Jones, and whispered something
in a mysterious aside, to which plump Mrs. Jones answered,--"Why, do tell! now I never!"

"It's strange," said Mrs. Twitchel, taking up her parable again, in such a plaintive tone that
all knew something pathetic was coming, "what mistakes some folks will make, a-fetchin' up
girls. Now there's your Mary, Miss Scudder,--why, there a'n't nothin' she can't do; but law,
I was down to Miss Skinner's, last week, a-watchin' with her, and re'lly it 'most broke my
heart to see her. Her mother was a most amazin' smart woman; but she brought Suky up, for all
the world, as if she'd been a wax doll, to be kept in the drawer,--and sure enough, she was
a pretty cretur,--and now she's married, what is she? She ha'n't no more idee how to take hold
than nothin'. The poor child means well enough, and she works so hard she most kills herself;
but then she is in the suds from mornin' till night,--she's one the sort whose work's never
done,--and poor George Skinner's clean discouraged."

"There's everything in knowing how," said Mrs. Katy. "Nobody ought to be always working; it's
a bad sign. I tell Mary,--'Always do up your work in the forenoon.'--Girls must learn that.
I never work afternoons, after my dinner-dishes are got away; I never did and never would."

"Nor I, neither," chimed in Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Twitchel,--both anxious to show themselves
clear on this leading point of New England house-keeping.

"There's another thing I always tell Mary," said Mrs. Katy, impressively. "'Never say there
isn't time for a thing that ought to be done. If a thing is necessary, why, life is long enough
to find a place for it. That's my doctrine. When anybody tells me they can't find time for
this or that, I don't think much of 'em. I think they don't know how to work,--that's all.'"

Here Mrs. Twitchel looked up from her knitting, with an apologetic giggle, at Mrs. Brown.

"Law, now, there's Miss Brown, she don't know nothin' about it, 'cause she's got her servants
to every turn. I s'pose she thinks it queer to hear us talkin' about our work. Miss Brown must
have her time all to herself. I was tellin' the Deacon the other day that she was a privileged
woman."

"I'm sure, those that have servants find work enough following 'em 'round," said Mrs. Brown,--who,
like all other human beings, resented the implication of not having as many trials in life
as her neighbors. "As to getting the work done up in the forenoon, that's a thing I never can
teach 'em; they'd rather not. Chloe likes to keep her work 'round, and do it by snacks, any
time, day or night, when the notion takes her."

"And it was just for that reason I never would have one of those creatures 'round," said Mrs.
Katy. "Mr. Scudder was principled against buying negroes,--but if he had not been, I should
not have wanted any of their work. I know what's to be done, and most help is no help to me.
I want people to stand out of my way and let me get done. I've tried keeping a girl once or
twice, and I never worked so hard in my life. When Mary and I do all ourselves, we can calculate
everything to a minute; and we get our time to sew and read and spin and visit, and live just
as we want to."

Here, again, Mrs. Brown looked uneasy. To what use was it that she was rich and owned servants,
when this Mordecai in her gate utterly despised her prosperity? In her secret heart she thought
Mrs. Katy must be envious, and rather comforted herself on this view of the subject,--sweetly
unconscious of any inconsistency in the feeling with her views of utter self-abnegation just
announced.

Meanwhile the tea-table had been silently gathering on its snowy plateau the delicate china,
the golden butter, the loaf of faultless cake, a plate of crullers or wonders, as a sort of
sweet fried cake was commonly called,--tea-rusks, light as a puff, and shining on top with
a varnish of egg,--jellies of apple and quince quivering in amber clearness,--whitest and purest
honey in the comb,--in short, everything that could go to the getting-up of a most faultless tea.

"I don't see," said Mrs. Jones, resuming the gentle paeans of the occasion, "how Miss Scudder's
loaf-cake always comes out jest so. It don't rise neither to one side nor t'other, but jest
even all 'round; and it a'n't white one side and burnt the other, but jest a good brown all
over; and it don't have no heavy streak in it."

"Jest what Cerinthy Ann was sayin', the other day," said Mrs. Twitchel. "She says she can't
never be sure how hers is a-comin' out. Do what she can, it will be either too much or too
little; but Miss Scudder's is always jest so. 'Law,' says I, 'Cerinthy Ann, it's faculty,--that's
it;--them that has it has it, and them that hasn't--why, they've got to work hard, and not
do half so well, neither.'"

Mrs. Katy took all these praises as matter of course. Since she was thirteen years old, she
had never put her hand to anything that she had not been held to do better than other folks,
and therefore she accepted her praises with the quiet repose and serenity of assured reputation;
though, of course, she used the usual polite disclaimers of "Oh, it's nothing, nothing at all;
I'm sure I don't know how I do it, and was not aware it was so good,"--and so on. All which
things are proper for gentlewomen to observe in like cases, in every walk of life.

"Do you think the Deacon will be along soon?" said Mrs. Katy, when Mary, returning from the
kitchen, announced the important fact, that the tea-kettle was boiling.

"Why, yes," said Mrs. Twitchel. "I'm a-lookin' for him every minute. He told me, that he and
the men should be plantin' up to the eight-acre lot, but he'd keep the colt up there to come
down on; and so I laid him out a clean shirt, and says, 'Now, Father, you be sure and be there
by five, so that Miss Scudder may know when to put her tea a-drawin'.' --There he is, I believe,"
she added, as a horse's tramp was heard without, and, after a few moments, the desired Deacon
entered.

He was a gentle, soft-spoken man, low, sinewy, thin, with black hair showing lines and patches
of silver. His keen, thoughtful, dark eye marked the nervous and melancholic temperament. A
mild and pensive humility of manner seemed to brood over him, like the shadow of a cloud. Everything
in his dress, air, and motions indicated punctilious exactness and accuracy, at times rising
to the point of nervous anxiety.

Immediately after the bustle of his entrance had subsided, Mr. Simeon Brown followed. He was
a tall, lank individual, with high cheek-bones, thin, sharp features, small, keen, hard eyes,
and large hands and feet.

Simeon was, as we have before remarked, a keen theologian, and had the scent of a hound for
a metaphysical distinction. True, he was a man of business, being a thriving trader to the
coast of Africa, whence he imported negroes for the American market; and no man was held to
understand that branch of traffic better,--he having, in his earlier days, commanded ships
in the business, and thus learned it from the root. In his private life, Simeon was severe
and dictatorial. He was one of that class of people who, of a freezing day, will plant themselves
directly between you and the fire, and there stand and argue to prove that selfishness is the
root of all moral evil. Simeon said he always had thought so; and his neighbors sometimes supposed
that nobody could enjoy better experimental advantages for understanding the subject. He was
one of those men who suppose themselves submissive to the Divine will, to the uttermost extent
demanded by the extreme theology of that day, simply because they have no nerves to feel, no
imagination to conceive what endless happiness or suffering is, and who deal therefore with
the great question of the salvation or damnation of myriads as a problem of theological algebra,
to be worked out by their inevitable x, y, z.

But we must not spend too much time with our analysis of character, for matters at the tea-table
are drawing to a crisis. Mrs. Jones has announced that she does not think "he" can come this
afternoon, by which significant mode of expression she conveyed the dutiful idea that there
was for her but one male person in the world. And now Mrs. Katy says, "Mary, dear, knock at
the Doctor's door and tell him that tea is ready."

The Doctor was sitting in his shady study, in the room on the other side of the little entry.
The windows were dark and fragrant with the shade and perfume of blossoming lilacs, whose tremulous
shadow, mingled with spots of afternoon sunlight, danced on the scattered papers of a great
writing-table covered with pamphlets and heavily-bound volumes of theology, where the Doctor
was sitting.

A man of gigantic proportions, over six feet in height, and built every way with an amplitude
corresponding to his height, sitting bent over his writing, so absorbed that he did not hear
the gentle sound of Mary's entrance.

"Doctor," said the maiden, gently, "tea is ready."

No motion, no sound, except the quick racing of the pen over the paper.

"Doctor! Doctor!"--a little louder, and with another step into the apartment,--"tea is ready."

The Doctor stretched his head forward to a paper which lay before him, and responded in a low,
murmuring voice, as reading something.

"Firstly,--if underived virtue be peculiar to the Deity, can it be the duty of a creature to
have it?"

Here a little waxen hand came with a very gentle tap on his huge shoulder, and "Doctor, tea
is ready," penetrated drowsily to the nerve of his ear, as a sound heard in sleep. He rose
suddenly with a start, opened a pair of great blue eyes, which shone abstractedly under the
dome of a capacious and lofty forehead, and fixed them on the maiden, who by this time was
looking up rather archly, and yet with an attitude of the most profound respect, while her
venerated friend was assembling together his earthly faculties.

"Tea is ready, if you please. Mother wished me to call you."

"Oh!--ah!--yes!--indeed!" he said, looking confusedly about, and starting for the door, in
his study-gown.

"If you please, Sir," said Mary, standing in his way, "would you not like to put on your coat
and wig?"

The Doctor gave a hurried glance at his study-gown, put his hand to his head, which, in place
of the ample curls of his full-bottomed wig, was decked only with a very ordinary cap, and
seemed to come at once to a full comprehension. He smiled a kind of conscious, benignant smile,
which adorned his high cheek-bones and hard features as sunshine adorns the side of a rock,
and said, kindly, "Ah, well, child, I understand now; I'll be out in a moment."

And Mary, sure that he was now on the right track, went back to the tearoom with the announcement
that the Doctor was coming.

In a few moments he entered, majestic and proper, in all the dignity of full-bottomed, powdered
wig, full, flowing coat, with ample cuffs, silver knee- and shoe-buckles, as became the gravity
and majesty of the minister of those days.

He saluted all the company with a benignity which had a touch of the majestic, and also of
the rustic in it; for at heart the Doctor was a bashful man,--that is, he had somewhere in
his mental camp that treacherous fellow whom John Bunyan anathematizes under the name of Shame.
The company rose on his entrance; the men bowed and the women curtsied, and all remained standing
while he addressed to each with punctilious decorum those inquiries in regard to health and
well-being which preface a social interview. Then, at a dignified sign from Mrs. Katy, he advanced
to the table, and, all following his example, stood, while, with one hand uplifted, he went
through a devotional exercise which, for length, more resembled a prayer than a grace,--after
which the company were seated.

"Well, Doctor," said Mr. Brown, who, as a householder of substance, felt a conscious right
to be first to open conversation with the minister, "people are beginning to make a noise about
your views. I was talking with Deacon Timmins the other day down on the wharf, and he said
Dr. Stiles said that it was entirely new doctrine,--entirely so,--and for his part he wanted
the good old ways."

"They say so, do they?" said the Doctor, kindling up from an abstraction into which he seemed
to be gradually subsiding. "Well, let them. I had rather publish new divinity than any other,
and the more of it the better,--if it be but true. I should think it hardly worth while to
write, if I had nothing new to say."

"Well," said Deacon Twitchel,--his meek face flushing with awe of his minister,--"Doctor, there's
all sorts of things said about you. Now the other day I was at the mill with a load of corn,
and while I was a-waitin', Amariah Wadsworth came along with his'n; and so while we were waitin',
he says to me, 'Why, they say your minister is gettin' to be an Armenian'; and he went on a-tellin'
how old Ma'am Badger told him that you interpreted some parts of Paul's Epistles clear on the
Armenian side. You know Ma'am Badger's a master-hand at doctrines, and she's 'most an uncommon
Calvinist."

"That does not frighten me at all," said the sturdy Doctor. "Supposing I do interpret some
texts like the Arminians. Can't Arminians have anything right about them? Who wouldn't rather
go with the Arminians when they are right, than with the Calvinists when they are wrong?"

"That's it,--you've hit it, Doctor," said Simeon Brown. "That's what I always say. I say, 'Don't
he prove it? and how are you going to answer him?' That gravels 'em."

"Well," said Deacon Twitchel, "Brother Seth, you know Brother Seth,--he says you deny depravity.
He's all for imputation of Adam's sin, you know; and I have long talks with Seth about it every
time he comes to see me; and he says, that, if we did not sin in Adam, it's givin' up the whole
ground altogether; and then he insists you're clean wrong about the unregenerate doings."

"Not at all,--not in the least," said the Doctor, promptly.

"I wish Seth could talk with you sometime, Doctor. Along in the spring, he was down helpin'
me to lay stone fence,--it was when we was fencin' off the south pastur' lot,--and we talked
pretty nigh all day; and it re'lly did seem to me that the longer we talked, the sotter Seth
grew. He's a master-hand at readin'; and when he heard that your remarks on Dr. Mayhew had
come out, Seth tackled up o' purpose and come up to Newport to get them, and spent all his
time, last winter, studyin' on it and makin' his remarks; and I tell you, Sir, he's a tight
fellow to argue with. Why, that day, what with layin' stone wall and what with arguin' with
Seth, I come home quite beat out,--Miss Twitchel will remember."

"That he was!" said his helpmeet. "I 'member, when he came home, says I, 'Father, you seem
clean used up'; and I stirred 'round lively like, to get him his tea. But he jest went into
the bedroom and laid down afore supper; and I says to Cerinthy Ann, 'That's a thing I ha'n't
seen your father do since he was took with the typhus.' And Cerinthy Ann, she said she knew
'twa'n't anything but them old doctrines,--that it was always so when Uncle Seth come down.
And after tea Father was kinder chirked up a little, and he and Seth set by the fire, and was
a-beginnin' it ag'in, and I jest spoke out and said,--'Now, Seth, these 'ere things doesn't
hurt you; but the Deacon is weakly, and if he gets his mind riled after supper, he don't sleep
none all night. So,' says I, 'you'd better jest let matters stop where they be; 'cause,' says
I, ''twon't make no difference, for to-night, which on ye's got the right on't;--reckon the
Lord 'll go on his own way without you; and we shall find out, by'm-by, what that is.'"

"Mr. Scudder used to think a great deal on these points," said Mrs. Katy, "and the last time
he was home he wrote out his views. I haven't ever shown them to you, Doctor; but I should
be pleased to know what you think of them."

"Mr. Scudder was a good man, with a clear head," said the Doctor; "and I should be much pleased
to see anything that he wrote."

A flush of gratified feeling passed over Mrs. Katy's face;--for one flower laid on the shrine
which we keep in our hearts for the dead is worth more than any gift to our living selves.

We will not now pursue our party further, lest you, Reader, get more theological tea than you
can drink. We will not recount the numerous nice points raised by Mr. Simeon Brown and adjusted
by the Doctor,--and how Simeon invariably declared, that that was the way in which he disposed
of them himself, and how he had thought it out ten years ago.

We will not relate, either, too minutely, how Mary changed color and grew pale and red in quick
succession, when Mr. Simeon Brown incidentally remarked, that the "Monsoon" was going to set
sail that very afternoon, for her three-years' voyage. Nobody noticed it in the busy amenities,--the
sudden welling and ebbing of that one poor little heart-fountain.

So we go,--so little knowing what we touch and what touches us as we talk! We drop out a common
piece of news,--"Mr. So-and-so is dead,--Miss Such-a-one is married,--such a ship has sailed,"--and
lo, on our right hand or our left, some heart has sunk under the news silently,--gone down
in the great ocean of Fate, without even a bubble rising to tell its drowning pang. And this--God
help us!--is what we call living!

CHAPTER V.

THE LETTER.

Mary returned to the quietude of her room. The red of twilight had faded, and the silver moon,
round and fair, was rising behind the thick boughs of the apple-trees. She sat down in the
window, thoughtful and sad, and listened to the crickets, whose ignorant jollity often sounds
as mournfully to us mortals as ours may to superior beings. There the little hoarse, black
wretches were scraping and creaking, as if life and death were invented solely for their pleasure,
and the world were created only to give them a good time in it. Now and then a little wind
shivered among the boughs, and brought down a shower of white petals which shimmered in the
slant beams of the moonlight; and now a ray touched some tall head of grass, and forthwith
it blossomed into silver, and stirred itself with a quiet joy, like a new-born saint just awaking
in paradise. And ever and anon came on the still air the soft eternal pulsations of the distant
sea, sound mournfulest, most mysterious, of all the harpings of Nature. It was the sea,--the
deep, eternal sea,--the treacherous, soft, dreadful, inexplicable sea; and he was perhaps at
this moment being borne away on it,--away, away,--to what sorrows, to what temptations, to
what dangers, she knew not. She looked along the old, familiar, beaten path by which he came,
by which he went, and thought, "What if he never should come back?" There was a little path
through the orchard out to a small elevation in the pasture-lot behind, whence the sea was
distinctly visible, and Mary had often used her low-silled window as a door when she wanted
to pass out thither; so now she stepped out, and, gathering her skirts back from the dewy grass,
walked thoughtfully along the path and gained the hill. Newport harbor lay stretched out in
the distance, with the rising moon casting a long, wavering track of silver upon it; and vessels,
like silver-winged moths, were turning and shifting slowly to and fro upon it, and one stately
ship in full sail passing fairly out under her white canvas, graceful as some grand, snowy
bird. Mary's beating heart told her that there was passing away from her one who carried a
portion of her existence with him. She sat down under a lonely tree that stood there, and,
resting her elbow on her knee, followed the ship with silent prayers, as it passed, like a
graceful, cloudy dream, out of her sight.

Then she thoughtfully retraced her way to her chamber; and as she was entering, observed in
the now clearer moonlight what she had not seen before,--something white, like a letter, lying
on the floor. Immediately she struck a light, and there, sure enough, it was,--a letter in
James's handsome, dashing hand; and the little puss, before she knew what she was about, actually
kissed it, with a fervor which would much have astonished the writer, could he at that moment
have been clairvoyant. But Mary felt as one who finds, in the emptiness after a friend's death,
an unexpected message or memento; and all alone in the white, calm stillness of her little
room her heart took sudden possession of her. She opened the letter with trembling hands, and
read what of course we shall let you read. We got it out of a bundle of old, smoky, yellow
letters, years after all the parties concerned were gone on the eternal journey beyond earth.

"MY DEAR MARY,--

"I cannot leave you so. I have about two hundred things to say to you, and it's a shame I could
not have had longer to see you; but blessed be ink and paper! I am writing and seeing to fifty
things besides; so you mustn't wonder if my letter has rather a confused appearance.

"I have been thinking that perhaps I gave you a wrong impression of myself, this afternoon.
I am going to speak to you from my heart, as if I were confessing on my death-bed. Well, then,
I do not confess to being what is commonly called a bad young man. I should be willing that
men of the world generally, even strict ones, should look my life through and know all about
it. It is only in your presence, Mary, that I feel that I am bad and low and shallow and mean,
because you represent to me a sphere higher and holier than any in which I have ever moved,
and stir up a sort of sighing and longing in my heart to come towards it. In all countries,
in all temptations, Mary, your image has stood between me and low, gross vice. When I have
been with fellows roaring drunken, beastly songs,--suddenly I have seemed to see you as you
used to sit beside me in the singing-school, and your voice has been like an angel's in my
ear, and I have got up and gone out sick and disgusted. Your face has risen up calm and white
and still, between the faces of poor lost creatures who know no better way of life than to
tempt us to sin. And sometimes, Mary, when I have seen girls that, had they been cared for
by good pious mothers, might have been like you, I have felt as if I could cry for them. Poor
women are abused all the world over; and it's no wonder they turn round and revenge themselves
on us.

"No, I have not been bad, Mary, as the world calls badness. I have been kept by you. But do
you remember you told me once, that, when the snow first fell and lay so dazzling and pure
and soft, all about, you always felt as if the spreads and window-curtains that seemed white
before were dirty? Well, it's just like that with me. Your presence makes me feel that I am
not pure,--that I am low and unworthy,--not worthy to touch the hem of your garment. Your good
Dr. H. spent a whole half-day, the other Sunday, trying to tell us about the beauty of holiness;
and he cut, and pared, and peeled, and sliced, and told us what it wasn't, and what was like
it, and wasn't; and then he built up an exact definition, and fortified and bricked it up all
round; and I thought to myself that he'd better tell 'em to look at Mary Scudder, and they'd
understand all about it. That was what I was thinking when you talked to me for looking at
you in church instead of looking towards the pulpit. It really made me laugh in myself to see
what a good little ignorant, unconscious way you had of looking up at the Doctor, as if he
knew more about that than you did.

"And now as to your Doctor that you think so much of, I like him for certain things, in certain
ways. He is a great, grand, large pattern of a man,--a man who isn't afraid to think, and to
speak anything he does think; but then I do believe, if he would take a voyage round the world
in the forecastle of a whaler, he would know more about what to say to people than he does
now; it would certainly give him several new points to be considered. Much of his preaching
about men is as like live men as Chinese pictures of trees and rocks and gardens,--no nearer
the reality than that. All I can say is, 'It isn't so; and you'd know it, Sir, if you knew
men.' He has got what they call a system--just so many bricks put together just so; but it
is too narrow to take in all I see in my wanderings round this world of ours. Nobody that has
a soul, and goes round the world as I do, can help feeling it at times, and thinking, as he
sees all the races of men and their ways, who made them, and what they were made for. To doubt
the existence of a God seems to me like a want of common sense. There is a Maker and a Ruler,
doubtless; but then, Mary, all this invisible world of religion is unreal to me. I can see
we must be good, somehow,--that if we are not, we shall not be happy here or hereafter. As
to all the metaphysics of your good Doctor, you can't tell how they tire me. I'm not the sort
of person that they can touch. I must have real things,--real people; abstractions are nothing
to me. Then I think that he systematically contradicts on one Sunday what he preaches on another.
One Sunday he tells us that God is the immediate efficient Author of every act of will; the
next he tells us that we are entire free agents. I see no sense in it, and can't take the trouble
to put it together. But then he and you have something in you that I call religion,--something
that makes you good. When I see a man working away on an entirely honest, unworldly, disinterested
pattern, as he does, and when I see you, Mary, as I said before, I should like at least to
be as you are, whether I could believe as you do or not.

"How could you so care for me, and waste on one so unworthy of you such love? Oh, Mary, some
better man must win you; I never shall and never can;--but then you must not quite forget me;
you must be my friend, my saint. If, through your prayers, your Bible, your friendship, you
can bring me to your state, I am willing to be brought there,--nay, desirous. God has put the
key of my soul into your hands.

"So, dear Mary, good-bye! Pray still for your naughty, loving

"COUSIN JAMES."

Mary read this letter, and re-read it, with more pain than pleasure. To feel the immortality
of a beloved soul hanging upon us, to feel that its only communications with Heaven must be
through us, is the most solemn and touching thought that can pervade a mind. It was without
one particle of gratified vanity, with even a throb of pain, that she read such exalted praises
of herself from one blind to the glories of a far higher loveliness.

Yet was she at that moment, unknown to herself, one of the great company scattered through
earth who are priests unto God,--ministering between the Divine One, who has unveiled himself
unto them, and those who as yet stand in the outer courts of the great sanctuary of truth and
holiness. Many a heart, wrung, pierced, bleeding with the sins and sorrows of earth, longing
to depart, stands in this mournful and beautiful ministry, but stands unconscious of the glory
of the work in which it waits and suffers. God's kings and priests are crowned with thorns,
walking the earth with bleeding feet, and comprehending not the work they are performing.

Mary took from a drawer a small pocket-book, from which dropped a lock of black hair,--a glossy
curl, which seemed to have a sort of wicked, wilful life in every shining ring, just as she
had often seen it shake naughtily on the owner's head. She felt a strange tenderness towards
the little wilful thing, and, as she leaned over it, made in her heart a thousand fond apologies
for every fault and error.

She was standing thus when Mrs. Scudder entered the room to see if her daughter had yet retired.

"What are you doing there, Mary?" she said, as her eye fell on the letter. "What is it you
are reading?"

Mary felt herself grow pale; it was the first time in her whole life that her mother had asked
her a question that she was not from the heart ready to answer. Her loyalty to her only parent
had gone on even-handed with that she gave to her God; she felt, somehow, that the revelations
of that afternoon had opened a gulf between them, and the consciousness overpowered her.

Mrs. Scudder was astonished at her evident embarrassment, her trembling, and paleness. She
was a woman of prompt, imperative temperament, and the slightest hesitation in rendering to
her a full, outspoken confidence had never before occurred in their intercourse. Her child
was the core of her heart, the apple of her eye, and intense love is always near neighbor to
anger; there was, therefore, an involuntary flash from her eye and a heightening of her color,
as she said,--"Mary, are you concealing anything from your mother?"

In that moment, Mary had grown calm again. The wonted serene, balanced nature had found its
habitual poise, and she looked up innocently, though with tears in her large, blue eyes, and
said,--"No, mother,--I have nothing that I do not mean to tell you fully. This letter came
from James Marvyn; he came here to see me this afternoon."

"Here?--when? I did not see him."

"After dinner. I was sitting here in the window, and suddenly he came up behind me through
the orchard-path."

Mrs. Katy sat down with a flushed cheek and a discomposed air; but Mary seemed actually to
bear her down by the candid clearness of the large, blue eye which she turned on her, as she
stood perfectly collected, with her deadly pale face and a brilliant spot burning on each cheek.

"James came to say good-bye. He complained that he had not had a chance to see me alone since
he came home."

"And what should he want to see you alone for?" said Mrs. Scudder, in a dry, disturbed tone.

"Mother,--everybody has things at times which they would like to say to some one person alone,"
said Mary.

"Well, tell me what he said."

"I will try. In the first place, he said that he always had been free, all his life, to run
in and out of our house, and to wait on me like a brother."

"Hum!" said Mrs. Scudder; "but he isn't your brother, for all that."

"Well, then, he wanted to know why you were so cold to him, and why you never let him walk
with me from meetings or see me alone, as we often used to. And I told him why,--that we were
not children now, and that you thought it was not best; and then I talked with him about religion,
and tried to persuade him to attend to the concerns of his soul; and I never felt so much hope
for him as I do now."

Aunt Katy looked skeptical, and remarked,--"If he really felt a disposition for religious instruction,
Dr. H. could guide him much better than you could."

"Yes,--so I told him, and I tried to persuade him to talk with Dr. H.; but he was very unwilling.
He said, I could have more influence over him than anybody else,--that nobody could do him
any good but me."

"Yes, yes,--I understand all that," said Aunt Katy,--"I have heard young men say that before,
and I know just what it amounts to."

"But, mother, I do think James was moved very much, this afternoon. I never heard him speak
so seriously; he seemed really in earnest, and he asked me to give him my Bible."

"Couldn't he read any Bible but yours?"

"Why, naturally, you know, mother, he would like my Bible better, because it would put him
in mind of me. He promised faithfully to read it all through."

"And then, it seems, he wrote you a letter."

"Yes, mother."

Mary shrank from showing this letter, from the natural sense of honor which makes us feel it
indelicate to expose to an unsympathizing eye the confidential outpourings of another heart;
and then she felt quite sure that there was no such intercessor for James in her mother's heart
as in her own. But over all this reluctance rose the determined force of duty; and she handed
the letter in silence to her mother.

Mrs. Scudder took it, laid it deliberately in her lap, and then began searching in the pocket
of her chintz petticoat for her spectacles. These being found, she wiped them, accurately adjusted
them, opened the letter and spread it on her lap, brushing out its folds and straightening
it, that she might read with the greater ease. After this she read it carefully and deliberately;
and all this while there was such a stillness, that the sound of the tall varnished clock in
the best room could be heard through the half-opened door.

After reading it with the most tiresome, torturing slowness, she rose, and laying it on the
table under Mary's eye, and pressing down her finger on two lines in the letter, said, "Mary,
have you told James that you loved him?"

"Yes, mother, always. I always loved him, and he always knew it."

"But, Mary, this that he speaks of is something different. What has passed between"--

"Why, mother, he was saying that we who were Christians drew to ourselves and did not care
for the salvation of our friends; and then I told him how I had always prayed for him, and
how I should be willing even to give up my hopes in heaven, if he might be saved."

"Child,--what do you mean?"

