To him succeeded FRODE, surnamed the Vigorous, who bore out his name by the strength of his
body and mind. He destroyed in war ten captains of Norway, and finally approached the island
which afterwards had its name from him, meaning to attack the king himself last of all. This
king, Froger, was in two ways very distinguished, being notable in arms no less than in wealth;
and graced his sovereignty with the deeds of a champion, being as rich in prizes for bodily
feats as in the honours of rank. According to some, he was the son of Odin, and when he begged
the immortal gods to grant him a boon, received the privilege that no man should conquer him,
save he who at the time of the conflict could catch up in his hand the dust lying beneath Froger's
feet. When Frode found that Heaven had endowed this king with such might, he challenged him
to a duel, meaning to try to outwit the favour of the gods. So at first, feigning inexperience,
he besought the king for a lesson in fighting, knowing (he said) his skill and experience in
the same. The other, rejoicing that his enemy not only yielded to his pretensions, but even
made him a request, said that he was wise to submit his youthful mind to an old man's wisdom;
for his unscarred face and his brow, ploughed by no marks of battle, showed that his knowledge
of such matters was but slender. So he marked off on the ground two square spaces with sides
an ell long, opposite one another, meaning to begin by instructing him about the use of these
plots. When they had been marked off, each took the side assigned to him. Then Frode asked
Froger to exchange arms and ground with him, and the request was readily granted. For Froger
was excited with the dashing of his enemy's arms, because Frode wore a gold-hilted sword, a
breastplate equally bright, and a headpiece most brilliantly adorned in the same manner. So
Frode caught up some dust from the ground whence Froger had gone, and thought that he had been
granted an omen of victory. Nor was he deceived in his presage; for he straightway slew Froger,
and by this petty trick won the greatest name for bravery; for he gained by craft what had
been permitted to no man's strength before.

After him DAN came to the throne. When he was in the twelfth year of his age, he was wearied
by the insolence of the embassies, which commanded him either to fight the Saxons or to pay
them tribute. Ashamed, he preferred fighting to payment and was moved to die stoutly rather
than live a coward. So he elected to fight; and the warriors of the Danes filled the Elbe with
such a throng of vessels, that the decks of the ships lashed together made it quite easy to
cross, as though along a continuous bridge. The end was that the King of Saxony had to accept
the very terms he was demanding from the Danes.

After Dan, FRIDLEIF, surnamed the Swift, assumed the sovereignty. During his reign, Huyrwil,
the lord of Oland, made a league with the Danes and attacked Norway. No small fame was added
to his deeds by the defeat of the amazon Rusila, who aspired with military ardour to prowess
in battle: but he gained manly glory over a female foe. Also he took into his alliance, on
account of their deeds of prowess, her five partners, the children of Finn, named Brodd, Bild,
Bug, Fanning, and Gunholm. Their confederacy emboldened him to break the treaty which he made
with the Danes; and the treachery of the violation made it all the more injurious, for the
Danes could not believe that he could turn so suddenly from a friend into an enemy; so easily
can some veer from goodwill into hate. I suppose that this man inaugurated the morals of our
own day, for we do not account lying and treachery as sinful and sordid. When Huyrwil attacked
the southern side of Zealand, Fridleif assailed him in the harbour which was afterwards called
by Huyrwil's name. In this battle the soldiers, in their rivalry for glory, engaged with such
bravery that very few fled to escape peril, and both armies were utterly destroyed; nor did
the victory fall to either side, where both were enveloped in an equal ruin. So much more desirous
were they all of glory than of life. So the survivors of Huyrwil's army, in order to keep united,
had the remnants of their fleet lashed together at night. But, in the same night, Bild and
Brodd cut the cables with which the ships were joined, and stealthily severed their own vessels
from the rest, thus yielding to their own terrors by deserting their brethren, and obeying
the impulses of fear rather than fraternal love. When daylight returned, Fridleif, finding
that after the great massacre of their friends only Huyrwil, Gunholm, Bug, and Fanning were
left, determined to fight them all single-handed, so that the mangled relics of his fleet might
not again have to be imperilled. Besides his innate courage, a shirt of steel-defying mail
gave him confidence; a garb which he used to wear in all public battles and in duels, as a
preservative of his life. He accomplished his end with as much fortune as courage, and ended
the battle successfully. For, after slaying Huyrwil, Bug, and Fanning, he killed Gunholm, who
was accustomed to blunt the blade of an enemy with spells, by a shower of blows from his hilt.
But while he gripped the blade too eagerly, the sinews, being cut and disabled, contracted
the fingers upon the palm, and cramped them with life-long curvature.

While Fridleif was besieging Dublin, a town in Ireland, and saw from the strength of the walls
that there was no chance of storming them, he imitated the shrewd wit of Hadding, and ordered
fire to be shut up in wicks and fastened to the wings of swallows. When the birds got back
in their own nesting-place, the dwellings suddenly flared up; and while the citizens all ran
up to quench them, and paid more heed to abating the fire than to looking after the enemy,
Fridleif took Dublin. After this he lost his soldiers in Britain, and, thinking that he would
find it hard to get back to the coast, he set up the corpses of the slain (Amleth's device)
and stationed them in line, thus producing so nearly the look of his original host that its
great reverse seemed not to have lessened the show of it a whit. By this deed he not only took
out of the enemy all heart for fighting, but inspired them with the desire to make their escape.

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  Jellinge.  Lat. "Ialunga", Icel. "Jalangr".
     (2)  General usage.  "publicus consuetudini": namely, the rule of
     combat that two should not fight against one.

BOOK FIVE.

After the death of Fridleif, his son FRODE, aged seven, was elected in his stead by the unanimous
decision of the Danes. But they held an assembly first, and judged that the minority of the
king should be taken in charge by guardians, lest the sovereignty should pass away owing to
the boyishness of the ruler. For one and all paid such respect to the name and memory of Fridleif,
that the royalty was bestowed on his son despite his tender years. So a selection was made,
and the brothers Westmar and Koll were summoned to the charge of bringing up the king. Isulf,
also, and Agg and eight other men of mark were not only entrusted with the guardianship of
the king, but also granted authority to administer the realm under him. These men were rich
in strength and courage, and endowed with ample gifts of mind as well as of body. Thus the
state of the Danes was governed with the aid of regents until the time when the king should
be a man.

The wife of Koll was Gotwar, who used to paralyse the most eloquent and fluent men by her glib
and extraordinary insolence; for she was potent in wrangling, and full of resource in all kinds
of disputation. Words were her weapons; and she not only trusted in questions, but was armed
with stubborn answers. No man could subdue this woman, who could not fight, but who found darts
in her tongue instead. Some she would argue down with a flood of impudent words, while others
she seemed to entangle in the meshes of her quibbles, and strangle in the noose of her sophistries;
so nimble a wit had the woman. Moreover, she was very strong, either in making or cancelling
a bargain, and the sting of her tongue was the secret of her power in both. She was clever
both at making and at breaking leagues; thus she had two sides to her tongue, and used it for
either purpose.

Westmar had twelve sons, three of whom had the same name--Grep in common. These three men were
conceived at once and delivered at one birth, and their common name declared their simultaneous
origin. They were exceedingly skillful swordsmen and boxers. Frode had also given the supremacy
of the sea to Odd; who was very closely related to the king. Koll rejoiced in an offspring
of three sons. At this time a certain son of Frode's brother held the chief command of naval
affairs for the protection of the country, Now the king had a sister, Gunwar, surnamed the
Fair because of her surpassing beauty. The sons of Westmar and Koll, being ungrown in years
and bold in spirit, let their courage become recklessness and devoted their guilt-stained minds
to foul and degraded orgies.

Their behaviour was so outrageous and uncontrollable that they ravished other men's brides
and daughters, and seemed to have outlawed chastity and banished it to the stews. Nay, they
defiled the couches of matrons, and did not even refrain from the bed of virgins. A man's own
chamber was no safety to him: there was scarce a spot in the land but bore traces of their
lust. Husbands were vexed with fear, and wives with insult to their persons: and to these wrongs
folk bowed. No ties were respected, and forced embraces became a common thing. Love was prostituted,
all reverence for marriage ties died out, and lust was greedily run after. And the reason of
all this was the peace; for men's bodies lacked exercise and were enervated in the ease so
propitious to vices. At last the eldest of those who shared the name of Grep, wishing to regulate
and steady his promiscuous wantonness, ventured to seek a haven for his vagrant amours in the
love of the king's sister. Yet he did amiss. For though it was right that his vagabond and
straying delights should be bridled by modesty, yet it was audacious for a man of the people
to covet the child of a king. She, much fearing the impudence of her wooer, and wishing to
be safer from outrage, went into a fortified building. Thirty attendants were given to her,
to keep guard and constant watch over her person.

Now the comrades of Frode, sadly lacking the help of women in the matter of the wear of their
garments, inasmuch as they had no means of patching or of repairing rents, advised and urged
the king to marry. At first he alleged his tender years as an excuse, but in the end yielded
to the persistent requests of his people. And when he carefully inquired of his advisers who
would be a fit wife for him, they all praised the daughter of the King of the Huns beyond the
rest. When the question was pushed, what reason Frode had for objecting to her, he replied
that he had heard from his father that it was not expedient for kings to seek alliance far
afield, or to demand love save from neighbours. When Gotwar heard this she knew that the king's
resistance to his friends was wily. Wishing to establish his wavering spirit, and strengthen
the courage of his weakling soul, she said: "Bridals are for young men, but the tomb awaits
the old. The steps of youth go forward in desires and in fortune; but old age declines helpless
to the sepulchre. Hope attends youth; age is bowed with hopeless decay. The fortune of young
men increases; it will never leave unfinished what it begins." Respecting her words, he begged
her to undertake the management of the suit. But she refused, pleading her age as her pretext,
and declaring herself too stricken in years to bear so difficult a commission. The king saw
that a bribe was wanted, and, proffering a golden necklace, promised it as the reward of her
embassy. For the necklace had links consisting of studs, and figures of kings interspersed
in bas-relief, which could be now separated and now drawn together by pulling a thread inside;
a gewgaw devised more for luxury than use. Frode also ordered that Westmar and Koll, with their
sons, should be summoned to go on the same embassy, thinking that their cunning would avoid
the shame of a rebuff.

They went with Gotwar, and were entertained by the King of the Huns at a three days' banquet,
ere they uttered the purpose of their embassy. For it was customary of old thus to welcome
guests. When the feast had been prolonged three days, the princess came forth to make herself
pleasant to the envoys with a most courteous address, and her blithe presence added not a little
to the festal delights of the banqueters. And as the drink went faster Westmar revealed his
purpose in due course, in a very merry declaration, wishing to sound the mind of the maiden
in talk of a friendly sort. And, in order not to inflict on himself a rebuff, he spoke in a
mirthful vein, and broke the ground of his mission, by venturing to make up a sportive speech
amid the applause of the revellers. The princess said that she disdained Frode because he lacked
honour and glory. For in days of old no men were thought fit for the hand of high-born women
but those who had won some great prize of glory by the lustre of their admirable deeds. Sloth
was the worst of vices in a suitor, and nothing was more of a reproach in one who sought marriage
than the lack of fame. A harvest of glory, and that alone, could bring wealth in everything
else. Maidens admired in their wooers not so much good looks as deeds nobly done. So the envoys,
flagging and despairing of their wish, left the further conduct of the affair to the wisdom
of Gotwar, who tried to subdue the maiden not only with words but with love-philtres, and began
to declare that Frode used his left hand as well as his right, and was a quick and skillful
swimmer and fighter. Also by the drink which she gave she changed the strictness of the maiden
to desire, and replaced her vanished anger with love and delight. Then she bade Westmar, Koll,
and their sons go to the king and urge their mission afresh; and finally, should they find
him froward, to anticipate a rebuff by a challenge to fight.

So Westmar entered the palace with his men-at-arms, and said: "Now thou must needs either consent
to our entreaties, or meet in battle us who entreat thee. We would rather die nobly than go
back with our mission unperformed; lest, foully repulsed and foiled of our purpose, we should
take home disgrace where we hoped to will honour. If thou refuse thy daughter, consent to fight:
thou must needs grant one thing or the other. We wish either to die or to have our prayers
beard. Something--sorrow if not joy--we will get from thee. Frode will be better pleased to
hear of our slaughter than of our repulse." Without another word, he threatened to aim a blow
at the king's throat with his sword. The king replied that it was unseemly for the royal majesty
to meet an inferior in rank in level combat, and unfit that those of unequal station should
fight as equals. But when Westmar persisted in urging him to fight, he at last bade him find
out what the real mind of the maiden was; for in old time men gave women who were to marry,
free choice of a husband. For the king was embarrassed, and hung vacillating betwixt shame
and fear of battle. Thus Westmar, having been referred to the thoughts of the girl's heart,
and knowing that every woman is as changeable in purpose as she is fickle in soul, proceeded
to fulfil his task all the more confidently because he knew how mutable the wishes of maidens
were. His confidence in his charge was increased and his zeal encouraged, because she had both
a maiden's simplicity, which was left to its own counsels, and a woman's freedom of choice,
which must be wheedled with the most delicate and mollifying flatteries; and thus she would
be not only easy to lead away, but even hasty in compliance. But her father went after the
envoys, that he might see more surely into his daughter's mind. She had already been drawn
by the stealthy working of the draught to love her suitor, and answered that the promise of
Frode, rather than his present renown, had made her expect much of his nature: since he was
sprung from so famous a father, and every nature commonly answered to its origin. The youth
therefore had pleased her by her regard of his future, rather than his present, glory. These
words amazed the father; but neither could he bear to revoke the freedom he had granted her,
and he promised her in marriage to Frode. Then, having laid in ample stores, he took her away
with the most splendid pomp, and, followed by the envoys, hastened to Denmark, knowing that
a father was the best person to give away a daughter in marriage. Frode welcomed his bride
most joyfully, and also bestowed the highest honours upon his future royal father-in-law; and
when the marriage rites were over, dismissed him with a large gift of gold and silver.

And so with Hanund, the daughter of the King of the Huns, for his wife, he passed three years
in the most prosperous peace. But idleness brought wantonness among his courtiers, and peace
begot lewdness, which they displayed in the most abominable crimes. For they would draw some
men up in the air on ropes, and torment them, pushing their bodies as they hung, like a ball
that is tossed; or they would put a kid's hide under the feet of others as they walked, and,
by stealthily pulling a rope, trip their unwary steps on the slippery skill in their path;
others they would strip of their clothes, and lash with sundry tortures of stripes; others
they fastened to pegs, as with a noose, and punished with mock-hanging. They scorched off the
beard and hair with tapers; of others they burned the hair of the groin with a brand. Only
those maidens might marry whose chastity they had first deflowered. Strangers they battered
with bones; others they compelled to drunkenness with immoderate draughts, and made them burst.
No man might give his daughter to wife unless he had first bought their favour and goodwill.
None might contract any marriage without first purchasing their consent with a bribe. Moreover,
they extended their abominable and abandoned lust not only to virgins, but to the multitude
of matrons indiscriminately. Thus a twofold madness incited this mixture of wantonness and
frenzy. Guests and strangers were proffered not shelter but revilings. All these maddening
mockeries did this insolent and wanton crew devise, and thus under a boy-king freedom fostered
licence. For nothing prolongs reckless sin like the procrastination of punishment and vengeance.
This unbridled impudence of the soldiers ended by making the king detested, not only by foreigners,
but even by his own people, for the Danes resented such an arrogant and cruel rule. But Grep
was contented with no humble loves; he broke out so outrageously that he was guilty of intercourse
with the queen, and proved as false to the king as he was violent to all other men. Then by
degrees the scandal grew, and the suspicion of his guilt crept on with silent step. The common
people found it out before the king. For Grep, by always punishing all who alluded in the least
to this circumstance, had made it dangerous to accuse him. But the rumour of his crime, which
at first was kept alive in whispers, was next passed on in public reports; for it is hard for
men to hide another's guilt if they are aware of it. Gunwar had many suitors; and accordingly
Grep, trying to take revenge for his rebuff by stealthy wiles, demanded the right of judging
the suitors, declaring that the princess ought to make the choicest match. But he disguised
his anger, lest he should seem to have sought the office from hatred of the maiden. At his
request the king granted him leave to examine the merits of the young men. So he first gathered
all the wooers of Gunwar together on the pretence of a banquet, and then lined the customary
room of the princess with their heads--a gruesome spectacle for all the rest. Yet he forfeited
none of his favour with Frode, nor abated his old intimacy with him. For he decided that any
opportunity of an interview with the king must be paid for, and gave out that no one should
have any conversation with him who brought no presents. Access, he announced, to so great a
general must be gained by no stale or usual method, but by making interest most zealously.
He wished to lighten the scandal of his cruelty by the pretence of affection to his king. The
people, thus tormented, vented their complaint of their trouble in silent groans. None had
the spirit to lift up his voice in public against this season of misery. No one had become
so bold as to complain openly of the affliction that was falling upon them. Inward resentment
vexed the hearts of men, secretly indeed, but all the more bitterly.

When Gotar, the King of Norway, heard this, he assembled his soldiers, and said that the Danes
were disgusted with their own king, and longed for another if they could get the opportunity;
that he had himself resolved to lead an army thither, and that Denmark would be easy to seize
if attacked. Frode's government of his country was as covetous as it was cruel. Then Erik rose
up and gainsaid the project with contrary reasons. "We remember," he said, "how often coveters
of other men's goods lose their own. He who snatches at both has oft lost both. It must be
a very strong bird that can wrest the prey from the claws of another. It is idle for thee to
be encouraged by the internal jealousies of the country, for these are oft blown away by the
approach of an enemy. For though the Danes now seem divided in counsel, yet they will soon
be of one mind to meet the foe. The wolves have often made peace between the quarrelling swine.
Every man prefers a leader of his own land to a foreigner, and every province is warmer in
loyalty to a native than to a stranger king. For Frode will not await thee at home, but will
intercept thee abroad as thou comest. Eagles claw each other with their talons, and fowls fight
fronting. Thou thyself knowest that the keen sight of the wise man must leave no cause for
repentance. Thou hast an ample guard of nobles. Keep thou quiet as thou art; indeed thou wilt
almost be able to find out by means of others what are thy resources for war. Let the soldiers
first try the fortunes of their king. Provide in peace for thine own safety, and risk others
if thou dost undertake the enterprise: better that the slave should perish than the master.
Let thy servant do for thee what the tongs do for the smith, who by the aid of his iron tool
guards his hand from scorching, and saves his fingers from burning. Learn thou also, by using
thy men, to spare and take thought for thyself."

So spake Erik, and Gotar, who had hitherto held him a man of no parts, now marvelled that he
had graced his answer with sentences so choice and weighty, and gave him the name of Shrewd-spoken,
thinking that his admirable wisdom deserved some title. For the young man's reputation had
been kept in the shade by the exceeding brilliancy of his brother Roller. Erik begged that
some substantial gift should be added to the name, declaring that the bestowal of the title
ought to be graced by a present besides. The king gave him a ship, and the oarsmen called it
"Skroter." Now Erik and Roller were the sons of Ragnar, the champion, and children of one father
by different mothers; Roller's mother and Erik's stepmother was named Kraka.

And so, by leave of Gotar, the task of making a raid on the Danes fell to one Hrafn. He was
encountered by Odd, who had at that time the greatest prestige among the Danes as a rover,
for he was such a skilled magician that he could range over the sea without a ship, and could
often raise tempests by his spells, and wreck the vessels of the enemy. Accordingly, that he
might not have to condescend to pit his sea-forces against the rovers, he used to ruffle the
waters by enchantment, and cause them to shipwreck his foes. To traders this man was ruthless,
but to tillers of the soil he was merciful, for he thought less of merchandise than of the
plough-handle, but rated the clean business of the country higher than the toil for filthy
lucre. When he began to fight with the Northmen he so dulled the sight of the enemy by the
power of his spells that they thought the drawn swords of the Danes cast their beams from afar
off, and sparkled as if aflame. Moreover, their vision was so blunted that they could not so
much as look upon the sword when it was drawn from the sheath: the dazzle was too much for
their eyesight, which could not endure the glittering mirage. So Hrafn and many of his men
were slain, and only six vessels slipped back to Norway to teach the king that it was not so
easy to crush the Danes. The survivors also spread the news that Frode trusted only in the
help of his champions, and reigned against the will of his people, for his rule had become
a tyranny.

In order to examine this rumour, Roller, who was a great traveller abroad, and eager to visit
unknown parts, made a vow that he would get into the company of Frode. But Erik declared that,
splendid as were his bodily parts, he had been rash in pronouncing the vow. At last, seeing
him persisting stubbornly in his purpose, Erik bound himself under a similar vow; and the king
promised them that he would give them for companions whomsoever they approved by their choice.
The brethren, therefore, first resolved to visit their father and beg for the stores and the
necessaries that were wanted for so long a journey. He welcomed them paternally, and on the
morrow took them to the forest to inspect the herd, for the old man was wealthy in cattle.
Also he revealed to them treasures which had long lain hid in caverns of the earth; and they
were suffered to gather up whatsoever of these they would. The boon was accepted as heartily
as it was offered: so they took the riches out of the ground, and bore away what pleased them.

Their rowers meanwhile were either refreshing themselves or exercising their skill with casting
weights. Some sped leaping, some running; others tried their strength by sturdily hurling stones;
others tested their archery by drawing the bow. Thus they essayed to strengthen themselves
with divers exercises. Some again tried to drink themselves into a drowse. Roller was sent
by his father to find out what had passed at home in the meanwhile. And when he saw smoke coming
from his mother's hut he went up outside, and, stealthily applying his eye, saw through the
little chink and into the house, where he perceived his mother stirring a cooked mess in an
ugly-looking pot. Also he looked up at three snakes hanging from above by a thin cord, from
whose mouths flowed a slaver which dribbled drops of moisture on the meal. Now two of these
were pitchy of hue, while the third seemed to have whitish scales, and was hung somewhat higher
than the others. This last had a fastening on its tail, while the others were held by a cord
round their bellies. Roller thought the affair looked like magic, but was silent on what he
had seen, that he might not be thought to charge his mother with sorcery. For he did not know
that the snakes were naturally harmless, or how much strength was being brewed for that meal.
Then Ragnar and Erik came up, and, when they saw the smoke issuing from the cottage, entered
and went to sit at meat. When they were at table, and Kraka's son and stepson were about to
eat together, she put before them a small dish containing a piebald mess, part looking pitchy,
but spotted with specks of yellow, while part was whitish: the pottage having taken a different
hue answering to the different appearance of the snakes. And when each had tasted a single
morsel, Erik, judging the feast not by the colours but by the inward strengthening effected,
turned the dish around very quickly, and transferred to himself the part which was black but
compounded of stronger juices; and, putting over to Roller the whitish part which had first
been set before himself, throve more on his supper. And, to avoid showing that the exchange
was made on purpose, he said, "Thus does prow become stern when the sea boils up." The man
had no little shrewdness, thus to use the ways of a ship to dissemble his cunning act.

So Erik, now refreshed by this lucky meal, attained by its inward working to the highest pitch
of human wisdom. For the potency of the meal bred in him the fulness of all kinds of knowledge
to an incredible degree, so that he had cunning to interpret even the utterances of wild beasts
and cattle. For he was not only well versed in all the affairs of men, but he could interpret
the particular feelings which brutes experienced from the sounds which expressed them. He was
also gifted with an eloquence so courteous and graceful, that he adorned whatsoever he desired
to expound with a flow of witty adages. But when Kraka came up, and found that the dish had
been turned round, and that Erik had eaten the stronger share of the meal, she lamented that
the good luck she had bred for her son should have passed to her stepson. Soon she began to
sigh, and entreat Eric that he should never fail to help his brother, whose mother had heaped
on him fortune so rich and strange: for by tasting a single savoury meal he had clearly attained
sovereign wit and eloquence, besides the promise of success in combat. She added also, that
Roller was almost as capable of good counsel, and that he should not utterly miss the dainty
that had been intended for him. She also told him that in case of extreme and violent need,
he could find speedy help by calling on her name; declaring that she trusted partially in her
divine attributes, and that, consorting as she did in a manner with the gods, she wielded an
innate and heavenly power. Erik said that he was naturally drawn to stand by his brother, and
that the bird was infamous which fouled its own nest. But Kraka was more vexed by her own carelessness
than weighed down by her son's ill-fortune: for in old time it made a craftsman bitterly ashamed
to be outwitted by his own cleverness.

Then Kraka, accompanied by her husband, took away the brothers on their journey to the sea.
They embarked in a single ship, but soon attached two others. They had already reached the
coast of Denmark, when, reconnoitering, they learned that seven ships had come up at no great
distance. Then Erik bade two men who could speak the Danish tongue well, to go to them unclothed,
and, in order to spy better, to complain to Odd of their nakedness, as if Erik had caused it,
and to report when they had made careful scrutiny. These men were received as friends by Odd,
and hunted for every plan of the general with their sharp ears. He had determined to attack
the enemy unawares at daybreak, that he might massacre them the more speedily while they were
swathed in their night garments: for he said that men's bodies were wont to be most dull and
heavy at that hour of dawn. He also told them, thereby hastening what was to prove his own
destruction, that his ships were laden with stones fit for throwing. The spies slipped off
in the first sleep of the night, reported that Odd had filled all his vessels with pebbles,
and also told everything else they had heard. Erik now quite understood the case, and, when
he considered the smallness of his own fleet, thought that he must call the waters to destroy
the enemy, and win their aid for himself.

So he got into a boat and rowed, pulling silently, close up to the keels of the enemy; and
gradually, by screwing in an auger, he bored the planks (a device practiced by Hadding and
also by Frode), nearest to the water, and soon made good his return, the oar-beat being scarce
audible. Now he bore himself so warily, that not one of the watchers noted his approach or
departure. As he rowed off, the water got in through the chinks of Odd's vessels, and sank
them, so that they were seen disappearing in the deep, as the water flooded them more and more
within. The weight of the stones inside helped them mightily to sink. The billows were washing
away the thwarts, and the sea was flush with the decks, when Odd, seeing the vessels almost
on a level with the waves, ordered the heavy seas that had been shipped to be baled out with
pitchers. And so, while the crews were toiling on to protect the sinking parts of the vessels
from the flood of waters, the enemy hove close up. Thus, as they fell to their arms, the flood
came upon them harder, and as they prepared to fight, they found they must swim for it. Waves,
not weapons, fought for Erik, and the sea, which he had himself Enabled to approach and do
harm, battled for him. Thus Erik made better use of the billow than of the steel, and by the
effectual aid of the waters seemed to fight in his own absence, the ocean lending him defence.
The victory was given to his craft; for a flooded ship could not endure a battle. Thus was
Odd slain with all his crew; the look-outs were captured, and it was found that no man escaped
to tell the tale of the disaster.

Erik, when the massacre was accomplished, made a rapid retreat, and put in at the isle Lesso.
Finding nothing there to appease his hunger, he sent the spoil homeward on two ships, which
were to bring back supplies for another year. He tried to go by himself to the king in a single
ship. So he put in to Zealand, and the sailors ran about over the shore, and began to cut down
the cattle: for they must either ease their hunger or perish of famine. So they killed the
herd, skinned the carcases, and cast them on board. When the owners of the cattle found this
out, they hastily pursued the free-booters with a fleet. And when Erik found that he was being
attacked by the owners of the cattle, he took care that the carcases of the slaughtered cows
should be tied with marked ropes and hidden under water. Then, when the Zealanders came up,
he gave them leave to look about and see if any of the carcases they were seeking were in his
hands; saying that a ship's corners were too narrow to hide things. Unable to find a carcase
anywhere, they turned their suspicions on others, and thought the real criminals were guiltless
of the plunder. Since no traces of free-booting were to be seen, they fancied that others had
injured them, and pardoned the culprits. As they sailed off, Erik lifted the carcase out of
the water and took it in.

Meantime Frode learnt that Odd and his men had gone down. For a widespread rumour of the massacre
had got wind, though the author of the deed was unknown. There were men, however, who told
how they had seen three sails putting in to shore, and departing again northwards. Then Erik
went to the harbour, not far from which Frode was tarrying, and, the moment that he stepped
out of the ship, tripped inadvertently, and came tumbling to the ground. He found in the slip
a presage of a lucky issue, and forecast better results from this mean beginning. When Grep
heard of his coming, he hastened down to the sea, intending to assail with chosen and pointed
phrases the man whom he had heard was better-spoken than all other folk. Grep's eloquence was
not so much excellent as impudent, for he surpassed all in stubbornness of speech. So he began
the dispute with reviling, and assailed Erik as follows:

Grep: "Fool, who art thou? What idle quest is thine? Tell me, whence or whither dost thou journey?
What is thy road? What thy desire? Who thy father? What thy lineage? Those have strength beyond
others who have never left their own homes, and the Luck of kings is their houseluck. For the
things of a vile man are acceptable unto few, and seldom are the deeds of the hated pleasing."

Erik: "Ragnar is my father; eloquence clothes my tongue; I have ever loved virtue only. Wisdom
hath been my one desire; I have travelled many ways over the world, and seen the different
manners of men. The mind of the fool can keep no bounds in aught: it is base and cannot control
its feelings. The use of sails is better than being drawn by the oar; the gale troubles the
waters, a drearier gust the land. For rowing goes through the seas and lying the lands; and
it is certain that the lands are ruled with the lips, but the seas with the hand."

Grep: "Thou art thought to be as full of quibbling as a cock of dirt. Thou stinkest heavy with
filth, and reekest of nought but sin. There is no need to lengthen the plea against a buffoon,
whose strength is in an empty and voluble tongue."

Erik: "By Hercules, if I mistake not, the coward word is wont to come back to the utterer.
The gods with righteous endeavour bring home to the speaker words cast forth without knowledge.
As soon as we espy the sinister ears of the wolf, we believe that the wolf himself is near.
Men think no credit due to him that hath no credit, whom report accuses of treachery."

Grep: "Shameless boy, owl astray from the path, night-owl in the darkness, thou shalt pay for
thy reckless words. Thou shalt be sorry for the words thou now belchest forth madly, and shalt
pay with thy death for thy unhallowed speech. Lifeless thou shalt pasture crows on thy bloodless
corpse, to be a morsel for beasts, a prey to the ravenous bird."

Erik: "The boding of the coward, and the will that is trained to evil, have never kept themselves
within due measure. He who betrays his lord, he who conceives foul devices, will be as great
a snare to himself as to his friends. Whoso fosters a wolf in his house is thought to feed
a thief and a pest for his own hearth."

Grep: "I did not, as thou thinkest, beguile the queen, but I was the guardian of her tender
estate. She increased my fortunes, and her favour first brought me gifts and strength, and
wealth and counsel."

Erik: "Lo, thy guilty disquiet lies heavy on thee; that man's freedom is safest whose mind
remains untainted. Whoso asks a slave to be a friend, is deceived; often the henchman hurts
his master."

At this Grep, shorn of his glibness of rejoinder, set spurs to his horse and rode away. Now
when he reached home, he filled the palace with uproarious and vehement clamour; and shouting
that he had been worsted in words, roused all his soldiers to fight, as though he would avenge
by main force his luckless warfare of tongues. For he swore that he would lay the host of the
foreigners under the claws of eagles. But the king warned him that he should give his frenzy
pause for counsel, that blind plans were commonly hurtful; that nothing could be done both
cautiously and quickly at once; that headstrong efforts were the worst obstacle; and lastly,
that it was unseemly to attack a handful with a host. Also, said he, the sagacious man was
he who could bridle a raging spirit, and stop his frantic empetuosity in time. Thus the king
forced the headlong rage of the young man to yield to reflection. But he could not wholly recall
to self-control the frenzy of his heated mind, or prevent the champion of wrangles, abashed
by his hapless debate, and finding armed vengeance refused him, from asking leave at least
to try his sorceries by way of revenge. He gained his request, and prepared to go back to the
shore with a chosen troop of wizards. So he first put on a pole the severed head of a horse
that had been sacrificed to the gods, and setting sticks beneath displayed the jaws grinning
agape; hoping that he would foil the first efforts of Erik by the horror of this wild spectacle.
For he supposed that the silly souls of the barbarians would give away at the bogey of a protruding
neck.

Erik was already on his road to meet them, and saw the head from afar off, and, understanding
the whole foul contrivance, he bade his men keep silent and behave warily; no man was to be
rash or hasty of speech, lest by some careless outburst they might give some opening to the
sorceries; adding that if talking happened to be needed, he would speak for all. And they were
now parted by a river; when the wizards, in order to dislodge Erik from the approach to the
bridge, set up close to the river, on their own side, the pole on which they had fixed the
horse's head. Nevertheless Erik made dauntlessly for the bridge, and said: "On the bearer fall
the ill-luck of what he bears! May a better issue attend our steps! Evil befall the evil-workers!
Let the weight of the ominous burden crush the carrier! Let the better auguries bring us safety!"
And it happened according to his prayer. For straightway the head was shaken off, the stick
fell and crushed the bearer. And so all that array of sorceries was baffled at the bidding
of a single curse, and extinguished.

Then, as Erik advanced a little, it came into his mind that strangers ought to fix on gifts
for the king. So he carefully wrapped up in his robe a piece of ice which he happened to find,
and managed to take it to the king by way of a present. But when they reached the palace he
sought entrance first, and bade his brother follow close behind. Already the slaves of the
king, in order to receive him with mockery as he entered, had laid a slippery hide on the threshold;
and when Erik stepped upon it, they suddenly jerked it away by dragging a rope, and would have
tripped him as he stood upon it, had not Roller, following behind, caught his brother on his
breast as he tottered. So Erik, having half fallen, said that "bare was the back of the brotherless."
And when Gunwar said that such a trick ought not to be permitted by a king, the king condemned
the folly of the messenger who took no heed against treachery. And thus he excused his flout
by the heedlessness of the man he flouted.

Within the palace was blazing a fire, which the aspect of the season required: for it was now
gone midwinter. By it, in different groups, sat the king on one side and the champions on the
other. These latter, when Erik joined them, uttered gruesome sounds like things howling. The
king stopped the clamour, telling them that the noises of wild beasts ought not to be in the
breasts of men. Erik added, that it was the way of dogs, for all the others to set up barking
when one started it; for all folk by their bearing betrayed their birth and revealed their
race. But when Koll, who was the keeper of the gifts offered to the king, asked him whether
he had brought any presents with him, he produced the ice which he had hidden in his breast.
And when he had handed it to Koll across the hearth, he purposely let it go into the fire,
as though it had slipped from the hand of the receiver. All present saw the shining fragment,
and it seemed as though molten metal had fallen into the fire. Erik, maintaining that it had
been jerked away by the carelessness of him who took it, asked what punishment was due to the
loser of the gift.

The king consulted the opinion of the queen, who advised him not to relax the statute of the
law which he had passed, whereby he gave warning that all who lost presents that were transmitted
to him should be punished with death. Everyone else also said that the penalty by law appointed
ought not to be remitted. And so the king, being counselled to allow the punishment as inevitable,
gave leave for Koll to be hanged.

Then Frode began to accost Erik thus: "O thou, wantoning in insolent phrase, in boastful and
bedizened speech, whence dost thou say that thou hast come hither, and why?"

Erik answered: "I came from Rennes Isle, and I took my seat by a stone."

Frode rejoined: "I ask, whither thou wentest next?"

Erik answered. "I went off from the stone riding on a beam, and often again took station by
a stone."

Frode replied: "I ask thee whither thou next didst bend thy course, or where the evening found
thee?"

Then said Erik: "Leaving a crag, I came to a rock, and likewise lay by a stone."

Frode said: "The boulders lay thick in those parts."

Erik answered: "Yet thicker lies the sand, plain to see."

Frode said: "Tell what thy business was, and whither thou struckest off thence."

Then said Erik: "Leaving the rock, as my ship ran on, I found a dolphin."

Frode said: "Now thou hast said something fresh, though both these things are common in the
sea: but I would know what path took thee after that?"

Erik answered: "After a dolphin I went to a dolphin."

Frode said: "The herd of dolphins is somewhat common."

Then said Erik: "It does swim somewhat commonly on the waters."

Frode said: "I would fain blow whither thou wert borne on thy toilsome journey after leaving
the dolphins?"

Erik answered: "I soon came upon the trunk of a tree."

Frode rejoined: "Whither didst thou next pass on thy journey?"

Then said Erik: "From a trunk I passed on to a log."

Frode said: "That spot must be thick with trees, since thou art always calling the abodes of
thy hosts by the name of trunks."

Erik replied: "There is a thicker place in the woods."

Frode went on: "Relate whither thou next didst bear thy steps."

Erik answered: "Oft again I made my way to the lopped timbers of the woods; but, as I rested
there, wolves that were sated on human carcases licked the points of the spears. There a lance-head
was shaken from the shaft of the king, and it was the grandson of Fridleif."

Frode said: "I am bewildered, and know not what to think about the dispute: for thou hast beguiled
my mind with very dark riddling."

Erik answered: "Thou owest me the prize for this contest that is finished: for under a veil
I have declared to thee certain things thou hast ill understood. For under the name I gave
before of `spear-point' I signified Odd, whom my hand had slain."

And when the queen also had awarded him the palm of eloquence and the prize for flow of speech,
the king straightway took a bracelet from his arm, and gave it to him as the appointed reward,
adding: "I would fain learn from thyself thy debate with Grep, wherein he was not ashamed openly
to avow himself vanquished."

Then said Erik: "He was smitten with shame for the adultery wherewith he was taxed; for since
he could bring no defence, he confessed that he had committed it with thy wife."

The king turned to Hanund and asked her in what spirit she received the charge; and she not
only confessed her guilt by a cry, but also put forth in her face a blushing signal of her
sin, and gave manifest token of her fault. The king, observing not only her words, but also
the signs of her countenance, but doubting with what sentence he should punish the criminal,
let the queen settle by her own choice the punishment which her crime deserved. When she learnt
that the sentence committed to her concerned her own guilt, she wavered awhile as she pondered
how to appraise her transgression; but Grep sprang up and ran forward to transfix Erik with
a spear, wishing to buy off his own death by slaying the accuser. But Roller fell on him with
drawn sword, and dealt him first the doom he had himself purposed.

Erik said: "The service of kin is best for the helpless."

And Roller said: "In sore needs good men should be dutifully summoned."

Then Frode said: "I think it will happen to you according to the common saying, `that the striker
sometimes has short joy of his stroke', and `that the hand is seldom long glad of the smiting'."

Erik answered: "The man must not be impeached whose deed justice excuses. For my work is as
far as from that of Grep, as an act of self-defence is from an attack upon another."

Then the brethren of Grep began to spring up and clamour and swear that they would either bring
avengers upon the whole fleet of Erik, or would fight him and ten champions with him.

Erik said to them: "Sick men have to devise by craft some provision for their journey. He whose
sword-point is dull should only probe things that are soft and tender. He who has a blunt knife
must search out the ways to cut joint by joint. Since, therefore, it is best for a man in distress
to delay the evil, and nothing is more fortunate in trouble than to stave off hard necessity,
I ask three days' space to get ready, provided that I may obtain from the king the skill of
a freshly slain ox."

Frode answered: "He who fell on a hide deserves a hide"; thus openly taunting the asker with
his previous fall. But Erik, when the hide was given him, made some sandals, which he smeared
with a mixture of tar and sand, in order to plant his steps the more firmly, and fitted them
on to the feet of himself and his people. At last, having meditated what spot he should choose
for the fight--for he said that he was unskilled in combat by land and in all warfare--he demanded
it should be on the frozen sea. To this both sides agreed. The king granted a truce for preparations,
and bade the sons of Westmar withdraw, saying that it was amiss that a guest, even if he had
deserved ill should be driven from his lodging. Then he went back to examine into the manner
of the punishment, which he had left to the queen's own choice to exact. For she forebore to
give judgment, and begged pardon for her slip. Erik added, that woman's errors must often be
forgiven, and that punishment ought not to be inflicted, unless amendment were unable to get
rid of her fault. So the king pardoned Hanund. As twilight drew near, Erik said: "With Gotar,
not only are rooms provided when the soldiers are coming to feast at the banquet, but each
is appointed a separate place and seat where he is to lie." Then the king gave up for their
occupation the places where his own champions had sat; and next the servants brought the banquet.
But Erik, knowing well the courtesy of the king, which made him forbid them to use up any of
the meal that was left, cast away the piece of which he had tasted very little, calling whole
portions broken bits of food. And so, as the dishes dwindled, the servants brought up fresh
ones to the lacking and shamefaced guests, thus spending on a little supper what might have
served for a great banquet.

So the king said: "Are the soldiers of Gotar wont to squander the meat after once touching
it, as if it were so many pared-off crusts? And to spurn the first dishes as if they were the
last morsels?"

Erik said: "Uncouthness claims no place in the manners of Gotar, neither does any disorderly
habit feign there."

But Frode said: "Then thy manners are not those of thy lord, and thou hast proved that thou
hast not taken all wisdom to heart. For he who goes against the example of his elders shows
himself a deserter and a renegade."

Then said Erik: "The wise man must be taught by the wiser. For knowledge grows by learning,
and instruction is advanced by doctrine."

Frode rejoined: "This affectation of thine of superfluous words, what exemplary lesson will
it teach me?"

Erik said: "A loyal few are a safer defence for a king than many traitors."

Frode said to him: "Wilt thou then show us closer allegiance than the rest?"

Erik answered: "No man ties the unborn (horse) to the crib, or the unbegotten to the stall.
For thou hast not yet experienced all things. Besides, with Gotar there is always a mixture
of drinking with feasting; liquor, over and above, and as well as meat, is the joy of the reveller."

Frode said: "Never have I found a more shameless beggar of meat and drink."

Erik replied: "Few reckon the need of the silent, or measure the wants of him who holds his peace."

Then the king bade his sister bring forth the drink in a great goblet. Erik caught hold of
her right hand and of the goblet she offered at the same time, and said: "Noblest of kings,
hath thy benignity granted me this present? Dost thou assure me that what I hold shall be mine
as an irrevocable gift?"

The king, thinking that he was only asking for the cup, declared it was a gift. But Erik drew
the maiden to him, as if she was given with the cup. When the king saw it, he said: "A fool
is shown by his deed; with us freedom of maidens is ever held inviolate."

Then Erik, feigning that he would cut off the girl's hand with his sword, as though it had
been granted under the name of the cup, said: "If I have taken more than thou gavest, or if
I am rash to keep the whole, let me at least get some." The king saw his mistake in his promise,
and gave him the maiden, being loth to undo his heedlessness by fickleness, and that the weight
of his pledge might seem the greater; though it is held an act more of ripe judgment than of
unsteadfastness to take back a foolish promise.

Then, taking from Erik security that he would return, he sent him to the ships; for the time
appointed for the battle was at hand. Erik and his men went on to the sea, then covered near
with ice; and, thanks to the stability of their sandals, felled the enemy, whose footing was
slippery and unsteady. For Frode had decreed that no man should help either side if it wavered
or were distressed. Then he went back in triumph to the king. So Gotwar, sorrowing at the destruction
of her children who had miserably perished, and eager to avenge them, announced that it would
please her to have a flyting with Erik, on condition that she should gage a heavy necklace
and he his life; so that if he conquered he should win gold, but if he gave in, death. Erik
agreed to the contest, and the gage was deposited with Gunwar. So Gotwar began thus:

     "Quando tuam limas admissa cote bipennem,
     Nonne terit tremulas mentula quassa nates?"

Erik rejoined:

     "Ut cuivis natura pilos in corpore sevit,
     Omnis nempe suo barba ferenda loco est.
     Re Veneris homines artus agitare necesse est;
     Motus quippe suos nam labor omnis habet.
     Cum natis excipitur nate, vel cum subdita penem
     Vulva capit, quid ad haec addere mas renuit?"

Powerless to answer this, Gotwar had to give the gold to the man whom she had meant to kill,
and thus wasted a lordly gift instead of punishing the slayer of her son. For her ill fate
was crowned, instead of her ill-will being avenged. First bereaved, and then silenced by furious
words, she lost at once her wealth and all reward of her eloquence. She made the man blest
who had taken away her children, and enriched her bereaver with a present: and took away nothing
to make up the slaughter of her sons save the reproach of ignorance and the loss of goods.
Westmar, when he saw this, determined to attack the man by force, since he was the stronger
of tongue, and laid down the condition that the reward of the conqueror should be the death
of the conquered, so that the life of both parties was plainly at stake. Erik, unwilling to
be thought quicker of tongue than of hand, did not refuse the terms.

Now the manner of combat was as follows. A ring, plaited of withy or rope, used to be offered
to the combatants for them to drag away by wrenching it with a great effort of foot and hand;
and the prize went to the stronger, for if either of the combatants could wrench it from the
other, he was awarded the victory. Erik struggled in this manner, and, grasping the rope sharply,
wrested it out of the hands of his opponent. When Erode saw this, he said: "I think it is hard
to tug at a rope with a strong man."

And Erik said: "Hard, at any rate, when a tumour is in the body or a hunch sits on the back."

And straightway, thrusting his foot forth, he broke the infirm neck and back of the old man,
and crushed him. And so Westmar failed to compass his revenge: zealous to retaliate, he fell
into the portion of those who need revenging; being smitten down even as those whose slaughter
he had desired to punish.

Now Frode intended to pierce Erik by throwing a dagger at him. But Gunwar knew her brother's
purpose, and said, in order to warn her betrothed of his peril, that no man could be wise who
took no forethought for himself. This speech warned Erik to ward off the treachery, and he
shrewdly understood the counsel of caution. For at once he sprang up and said that the glory
of the wise man would be victorious, but that guile was its own punishment; thus censuring
his treacherous intent in very gentle terms. But the king suddenly flung his knife at him,
yet was too late to hit him; for he sprang aside, and the steel missed its mark and ran into
the wall opposite. Then said Erik: "Gifts should be handed to friends, and not thrown; thou
hadst made the present acceptable if thou hadst given the sheath to keep the blade company."

On this request the king at once took the sheath from his girdle and gave it to him, being
forced to abate his hatred by the self-control of his foe. Thus he was mollified by the prudent
feigning of the other, and with goodwill gave him for his own the weapon which he had cast
with ill will. And thus Erik, by taking the wrong done him in a dissembling manner, turned
it into a favour, accepting as a splendid gift the steel which had been meant to slay him.
For he put a generous complexion on what Frode had done with intent to harm. Then they gave
themselves up to rest. In the night Gunwar awoke Erik silently, and pointed out to him that
they ought to fly, saying that it was very expedient to return with safe chariot ere harm was
done. He went with her to the shore, where he happened to find the king's fleet beached: so,
cutting away part of the sides, he made it unseaworthy, and by again replacing some laths he
patched it so that the damage might be unnoticed by those who looked at it. Then he caused
the vessel whither he and his company had retired to put off a little from the shore.

The king prepared to give them chase with his mutilated ships, but soon the waves broke through;
and though he was very heavily laden with his armour, he began to swim off among the rest,
having become more anxious to save his own life than to attack that of others. The bows plunged
over into the sea, the tide flooded in and swept the rowers from their seats. When Erik and
Roller saw this they instantly flung themselves into the deep water, spurning danger, and by
swimming picked up the king, who was tossing about. Thrice the waves had poured over him and
borne him down when Erik caught him by the hair, and lifted him out of the sea. The remaining
crowd of the wrecked either sank in the waters, or got with trouble to the land. The king was
stripped of his dripping attire and swathed round with dry garments, and the water poured in
floods from his chest as he kept belching it; his voice also seemed to fail under the exhaustion
of continual pantings. At last heat was restored to his limbs, which were numbed with cold,
and his breathing became quicker. He had not fully got back his strength, and could sit but
not rise. Gradually his native force returned. But when he was asked at last whether he sued
for life and grace, he put his hand to his eyes, and strove to lift up their downcast gaze.
But as, little by little, power came back to his body, and as his voice became more assured,
he said:

"By this light, which I am loth to look on, by this heaven which I behold and drink in with
little joy, I beseech and conjure you not to persuade me to use either any more. I wished to
die; ye have saved me in vain. I was not allowed to perish in the waters; at least I will die
by the sword. I was unconquered before; thine, Erik, was the first wit to which I yielded:
I was all the more unhappy, because I had never been beaten by men of note, and now I let a
low-born man defeat me. This is great cause for a king to be ashamed. This is a good and sufficient
reason for a general to die; it is right that he should care for nothing so much as glory.
If he want that, then take it that he lacks all else. For nothing about a king is more on men's
lips than his repute. I was credited with the height of understanding and eloquence. But I
have been stripped of both the things wherein I was thought to excel, and am all the more miserable
because I, the conqueror of kings, am seen conquered by a peasant. Why grant life to him whom
thou hast robbed of honour? I have lost sister, realm, treasure, household gear, and, what
is greater than them all, renown: I am luckless in all chances, and in all thy good fortune
is confessed. Why am I to be kept to live on for all this ignominy? What freedom can be so
happy for me that it can wipe out all the shame of captivity? What will all the following time
bring for me? It can beget nothing but long remorse in my mind, and will savour only of past
woes. What will prolonging of life avail, if it only brings back the memory of sorrow? To the
stricken nought is pleasanter than death, and that decease is happy which comes at a man's
wish, for it cuts not short any sweetness of his days, but annihilates his disgust at all things.
Life in prosperity, but death in adversity, is best to seek. No hope of better things tempts
me to long for life. What hap can quite repair my shattered fortunes? And by now, had ye not
rescued me in my peril, I should have forgotten even these. What though thou shouldst give
me back my realm, restore my sister, and renew my treasure? Thou canst never repair my renown.
Nothing that is patched up can have the lustre of the unimpaired, and rumour will recount for
ages that Frode was taken captive. Moreover, if ye reckon the calamities I have inflicted on
you, I have deserved to die at your hands; if ye recall the harms I have done, ye will repent
your kindness. Ye will be ashamed of having aided a foe, if ye consider how savagely he treated
you. Why do ye spare the guilty? Why do ye stay your hand from the throat of your persecutor?
It is fitting that the lot which I had prepared for you should come home to myself. I own that
if I had happened to have you in my power as ye now have me, I should have paid no heed to
compassion. But if I am innocent before you in act, I am guilty at least in will. I pray you,
let my wrongful intention, which sometimes is counted to stand for the deed, recoil upon me.
If ye refuse me death by the sword I will take care to kill myself with my own hand."

Erik rejoined thus: "I pray that the gods may turn thee from the folly of thy purpose; turn
thee, I say, that thou mayst not try to end a most glorious life abominably. Why, surely the
gods themselves have forbidden that a man who is kind to others should commit unnatural self-murder.
Fortune has tried thee to find out with what spirit thou wouldst meet adversity. Destiny has
proved thee, not brought thee low. No sorrow has been inflicted on thee which a happier lot
cannot efface. Thy prosperity has not been changed; only a warning has been given thee. No
man behaves with self-control in prosperity who has not learnt to endure adversity. Besides,
the whole use of blessings is reaped after misfortunes have been graciously acknowledged. Sweeter
is the joy which follows on the bitterness of fate. Wilt thou shun thy life because thou hast
once had a drenching, and the waters closed over thee? But if the waters can crush thy spirit,
when wilt thou with calm courage bear the sword? Who would not reckon swimming away in his
armour more to his glory than to his shame? How many men would think themselves happy were
they unhappy with thy fortune? The sovereignty is still thine; thy courage is in its prime;
thy years are ripening; thou canst hope to compass more than thou hast yet achieved. I would
not find thee fickle enough to wish, not only to shun hardships, but also to fling away thy
life, because thou couldst not bear them. None is so unmanly as he who from fear of adversity
loses heart to live. No wise man makes up for his calamities by dying. Wrath against another
is foolish, but against a man's self it is foolhardy; and it is a coward frenzy which dooms
its owner. But if thou go without need to thy death for some wrong suffered, or for some petty
perturbation of spirit, whom dost thou leave behind to avenge thee? Who is so mad that he would
wish to punish the fickleness of fortune by destroying himself? What man has lived so prosperously
but that ill fate has sometimes stricken him? Hast thou enjoyed felicity unbroken and passed
thy days without a shock, and now, upon a slight cloud of sadness, dost thou prepare to quit
thy life, only to save thy anguish? If thou bear trifles so ill, how shalt thou endure the
heavier frowns of fortune? Callow is the man who has never tasted of the cup of sorrow; and
no man who has not suffered hardships is temperate in enjoying ease. Wilt thou, who shouldst
have been a pillar of courage, show a sign of a palsied spirit? Born of a brave sire, wilt
thou display utter impotence? Wilt thou fall so far from thy ancestors as to turn softer than
women? Hast thou not yet begun thy prime, and art thou already taken with weariness of life?
Whoever set such an example before? Shall the grandson of a famous man, and the child of the
unvanquished, be too weak to endure a slight gust of adversity? Thy nature portrays the courage
of thy sires; none has conquered thee, only thine own heedlessness has hurt thee. We snatched
thee from peril, we did not subdue thee; wilt thou give us hatred for love, and set our friendship
down as wrongdoing? Our service should have appeased thee, and not troubled thee. May the gods
never desire thee to go so far in frenzy, as to persist in branding thy preserver as a traitor!
Shall we be guilty before thee in a matter wherein we do thee good? Shall we draw anger on
us for our service? Wilt thou account him thy foe whom thou hast to thank for thy life? For
thou wert not free when we took thee, but in distress, and we came in time to help thee. And,
behold, I restore thy treasure, thy wealth, thy goods. If thou thinkest thy sister was betrothed
to me over-hastily, let her marry the man whom thou commandest; for her chastity remains inviolate.
Moreover, if thou wilt accept me, I wish to fight for thee. Beware lest thou wrongfully steel
thy mind in anger. No loss of power has shattered thee, none of thy freedom has been forfeited.
Thou shalt see that I am obeying, not commanding thee. I agree to any sentence thou mayst pronounce
against my life. Be assured that thou art as strong here as-in thy palace; thou hast the same
power to rule here as in thy court. Enact concerning us here whatsoever would have been thy
will in the palace: we are ready to obey." Thus much said Erik.

Now this speech softened the king towards himself as much as towards his foe. Then, everything
being arranged and made friendly, they returned to the shore. The king ordered that Erik and
his sailors should be taken in carriages. But when they reached the palace he had an assembly
summoned, to which he called Erik, and under the pledge of betrothal gave him his sister and
command over a hundred men. Then he added that the queen would be a weariness to him, and that
the daughter of Gotar had taken his liking. He must, therefore, have a fresh embassy, and the
business could best be done by Erik, for whose efforts nothing seemed too hard. He also said
that he would stone Gotwar to death for her complicity in concealing the crime; but Hanund
he would restore to her father, that he might not have a traitress against his life dwelling
amongst the Danes. Erik approved his plans, and promised his help to carry out his bidding;
except that he declared that it would be better to marry the queen, when she had been put away,
to Roller, of whom his sovereignty need have no fears. This opinion Frode received reverentially,
as though it were some lesson vouchsafed from above. The queen also, that she might not seem
to be driven by compulsion, complied, as women will, and declared that there was no natural
necessity to grieve, and that all distress of spirit was a creature of fancy: and, moreover,
that one ought not to bewail the punishment that befell one's deserts. And so the brethren
celebrated their marriages together, one wedding the sister of the king, and the other his
divorced queen.

Then they sailed back to Norway, taking their wives with them. For the women could not be torn
from the side of their husbands, either by distance of journey or by dread of peril, but declared
that they would stick to their lords like a feather to something shaggy. They found that Ragnar
was dead, and that Kraka had already married one Brak. Then they remembered the father's treasure,
dug up the money, and bore it off. But Erik's fame had gone before him, and Gotar had learnt
all his good fortune. Now when Gotar learnt that he had come himself, he feared that his immense
self-confidence would lead him to plan the worst against the Norwegians, and was anxious to
take his wife from him and marry him to his own daughter in her place: for his queen had just
died, and he was anxious to marry the sister of Frode more than anyone. Erik, when he learnt
of his purpose, called his men together, and told them that his fortune had not yet got off
from the reefs. Also he said that he saw, that as a bundle that was not tied by a band fell
to pieces, so likewise the heaviest punishment that was not constrained on a man by his own
fault suddenly collapsed. They had experienced this of late with Frode; for they saw how at
the hardest pass their innocence had been protected by the help of the gods; and if they continued
to preserve it they should hope for like aid in their adversity. Next, they must pretend flight
for a little while, if they were attacked by Gotar, for so they would have a juster plea for
fighting. For they had every right to thrust out the hand in order to shield the head from
peril. Seldom could a man carry to a successful end a battle he had begun against the innocent;
so, to give them a better plea for assaulting the enemy, he must be provoked to attack them first.

Erik then turned to Gunwar, and asked her, in order to test her fidelity, whether she had any
love for Gotar, telling her it was unworthy that a maid of royal lineage should be bound to
the bed of a man of the people. Then she began to conjure him earnestly by the power of heaven
to tell her whether his purpose was true or reigned? He said that he had spoken seriously,
and she cried: "And so thou art prepared to bring on me the worst of shame by leaving me a
widow, whom thou lovedst dearly as a maid! Common rumour often speaks false, but I have been
wrong in my opinion of thee. I thought I had married a steadfast man; I hoped his loyalty was
past question; but now I find him to be more fickle than the winds." Saying this, she wept
abundantly.

Dear to Erik was his wife's fears; presently he embraced her and said: "I wished to know how
loyal thou wert to me. Nought but death has the right to sever us, but Gotar means to steal
thee away, seeking thy love by robbery. When he has committed the theft, pretend it is done
with thy goodwill; yet put off the wedding till he has given me his daughter in thy place.
When she has been granted, Gotar and I will hold our marriage on the same day. And take care
that thou prepare rooms for our banqueting which have a common party-wall, yet are separate:
lest perchance, if I were before thine eyes, thou shouldst ruffle the king with thy lukewarm
looks at him. For this will be a most effective trick to baffle the wish of the ravisher."
Then he bade Brak (one of his men), to lie in ambush not far from the palace with a chosen
band of his quickest men, that he might help him at need.

Then he summoned Roller, and fled in his ship with his wife and all his goods, in order to
tempt the king out, pretending panic: So, when he saw that the fleet of Gotar was pressing
him hard, he said: "Behold how the bow of guile shooteth the shaft of treachery;" and instantly
rousing his sailors with the war-shout, he steered the ship about. Gotar came close up to him
and asked who was the pilot of the ship, and he was told that it was Erik. He also shouted
a question whether he was the same man who by his marvellous speaking could silence the eloquence
of all other men. Erik, when he heard this, replied that he had long since received the surname
of the "Shrewd-spoken", and that he had not won the auspicious title for nothing. Then both
went back to the nearest shore, where Gotar, when he learnt the mission of Erik, said that
he wished for the sister of Frode, but would rather offer his own daughter to Frode's envoy,
that Erik might not repent the passing of his own wife to another man. Thus it would not be
unfitting for the fruit of the mission to fall to the ambassador.

Erik, he said, was delightful to him as a son-in-law, if only he could win alliance with Frode
through Gunwar.

Erik lauded the kindness of the king and approved his judgment, declaring he could not have
expected a greater thing from the immortal gods than what was now offered him unasked. Still,
he said, the king must first discover Gunwar's own mind and choice. She accepted the flatteries
of the king with feigned goodwill, and seemed to consent readily to his suit, but besought
him to suffer Erik's nuptials to precede hers; because, if Erik's were accomplished first,
there would be a better opportunity for the king's; but chiefly on this account, that, if she
were to marry again, she might not be disgusted at her new marriage troth by the memory of
the old recurring. She also declared it inexpedient for two sets of preparations to be confounded
in one ceremony. The king was prevailed upon by her answers, and highly approved her requests.

Gotar's constant talks with Erik furnished him with a store of most fairshapen maxims, wherewith
to rejoice and refresh his mind. So, not satisfied with giving him his daughter in marriage
he also made over to him the district of Lither, thinking that their connection deserved some
kindness. Now Kraka, whom Erik, because of her cunning in witchcraft, had brought with him
on his travels, feigned weakness of the eyes, and muffled up her face in her cloak, so that
not a single particle of her head was visible for recognition. When people asked her who she
was, she said that she was Gunwar's sister, child of the same mother but a different father.

Now when they came to the dwelling of Gotar, the wedding-feast of Alfhild (this was his daughter's
name) was being held. Erik and the king sat at meat in different rooms, with a party-wall in
common, and also entirely covered on the inside with hanging tapestries. Gunwar sat by Gotar,
but Erik sat close between Kraka on the one side and Alfhild on the other. Amid the merrymaking,
he gradually drew a lath out of the wall, and made an opening large enough to allow the passage
of a human body; and thus, without the knowledge of the guests, he made a space wide enough
to go through. Then, in the course of the feast, he began to question his betrothed closely
whether she would rather marry himself or Frode: especially since, if due heed were paid to
matches, the daughter of a king ought to go to the arms of one as noble as herself, so that
the lowliness of one of the pair might not impair the lordliness of the other. She said that
she would never marry against the permission of her father; but he turned her aversion into
compliance by promises that she should be queen, and that she should be richer than all other
women, for she was captivated by the promise of wealth quite as much as of glory. There is
also a tradition that Kraka turned the maiden's inclinations to Frode by a drink which she
mixed and gave to her.

Now Gotar, after the feast, in order to make the marriage-mirth go fast and furious, went to
the revel of Erik. As he passed out, Gunwar, as she had been previously bidden, went through
the hole in the party-wall where the lath had been removed, and took the seat next to Erik.
Gotar marvelled that she was sitting there by his side, and began to ask eagerly how and why
she had come there. She said that she was Gunwar's sister, and that the king was deceived by
the likeness of their looks. And when the king, in order to look into the matter, hurried back
to the royal room, Gunwar returned through the back door by which she had come and sat in her
old place in the sight of all. Gotar, when he saw her, could scarcely believe his eyes, and
in the utmost doubt whether he had recognized her aright, he retraced his steps to Erik; and
there he saw before him Gunwar, who had got back in her own fashion. And so, as often as he
changed to go from one hall to the other, he found her whom he sought in either place. By this
time the king was tormented by great wonder at what was no mere likeness, but the very same
face in both places. For it seemed flatly impossible that different people should look exactly
and undistinguishably alike. At last, when the revel broke up, he courteously escorted his
daughter and Erik as far as their room, as the manner is at weddings, and went back himself
to bed elsewhere.

But Erik suffered Alfhild, who was destined for Frode, to lie apart, and embraced Gunwar as
usual, thus outwitting the king. So Gotar passed a sleepless night, revolving how he had been
apparently deluded with a dazed and wandering mind: for it seemed to him no mere likeness of
looks, but sameness. Thus he was filled with such wavering and doubtful judgment, that though
he really discerned the truth he thought he must have been mistaken. At last it flashed across
his mind that the wall might have been tampered with. He gave orders that it should be carefully
surveyed and examined, but found no traces of a breakage: in fact, the entire room seemed to
be whole and unimpaired. For Erik, early in the night, had patched up the damage of the broken
wall, that his trick might not be detected. Then the king sent two men privily into the bedroom
of Erik to learn the truth, and bade them stand behind the hangings and note all things carefully.
They further received orders to kill Erik if they found him with Gunwar. They went secretly
into the room, and, concealing themselves in the curtained corners, beheld Erik and Gunwar
in bed together with arms entwined. Thinking them only drowsy, they waited for their deeper
sleep, wishing to stay until a heavier slumber gave them a chance to commit their crime. Erik
snored lustily, and they knew it was a sure sign that he slept soundly; so they straightway
came forth with drawn blades in order to butcher him. Erik was awakened by their treacherous
onset, and seeing their swords hanging over his head, called out the name of his stepmother,
(Kraka), to which long ago he had been bidden to appeal when in peril, and he found a speedy
help in his need. For his shield, which hung aloft from the rafter, instantly fell and covered
his unarmed body, and, as if on purpose, covered it from impalement by the cutthroats. He did
not fail to make use of his luck, but, snatching his sword, lopped off both feet of the nearest
of them. Gunwar, with equal energy, ran a spear through the other: she had the body of a woman,
but the spirit of a man.

Thus Erik escaped the trap; whereupon he went back to the sea and made ready to sail off by
night. But Roller sounded on his horn the signal for those who had been bidden to watch close
by, to break into the palace. When the king heard this, he thought it meant that the enemy
was upon them, and made off hastily in a ship. Meanwhile Brak, and those who had broken in
with him, snatched up the goods of the king, and got them on board Erik's ships. Almost half
the night was spent in pillaging. In the morning, when the king found that they had fled, he
prepared to pursue them, but was advised by one of his friends not to plan anything on a sudden
or do it in haste. His friend, indeed, tried to convince him that he needed a larger equipment,
and that it was ill-advised to pursue the fugitives to Denmark with a handful. But neither
could this curb the king's impetuous spirit; it could not bear the loss; for nothing had stung
him more than this, that his preparations to slay another should have recoiled on his own men.
So he sailed to the harbour which is now called Omi. Here the weather began to be bad, provision
failed, and they thought it better, since die they must, to die by the sword than by famine.
And so the sailors turned their hand against one another, and hastened their end by mutual
blows. The king with a few men took to the cliffs and escaped. Lofty barrows still mark the
scene of the slaughter. Meanwhile Erik ended his voyage fairly, and the wedding of Alfhild
and Frode was kept.

Then came tidings of an inroad of the Sclavs, and Erik was commissioned to suppress it with
eight ships, since Frode as yet seemed inexperienced in war. Erik, loth ever to flinch from
any manly undertaking, gladly undertook the business and did it bravely. Learning that the
pirates had seven ships, he sailed up to them with only one of his own, ordering the rest to
be girt with timber parapets, and covered over with pruned boughs of trees. Then he advanced
to observe the number of the enemy more fully, but when the Sclavs pursued closely, he beat
a quick retreat to his men. But the enemy, blind to the trap, and as eager to take the fugitives,
rowed smiting the waters fast and incessantly. For the ships of Erik could not be clearly distinguished,
looking like a leafy wood. The enemy, after venturing into a winding strait, suddenly saw themselves
surrounded by the fleet of Erik. First, confounded by the strange sight, they thought that
a wood was sailing; and then they saw that guile lurked under the leaves. Therefore, tardily
repenting their rashness, they tried to retrace their incautious voyage: but while they were
trying to steer about, they saw the enemy boarding them; Erik, however, put his ship ashore,
and slung stones against the enemy from afar. Thus most of the Sclavs were killed, and forty
taken, who afterwards under stress of bonds and famine, and in strait of divers torments, gave
up the ghost.

Meantime Frode, in order to cross on an expedition into Sclavia, had mustered a mighty fleet
from the Danes, as well as from neighbouring peoples. The smallest boat of this fleet could
carry twelve sailors, and be rowed by as many oars. Then Erik, bidding his men await him patiently
went to tell Frode the tidings of the defeat he had inflicted. As he sailed along he happened
to see a pirate ship aground on some shallows; and being wont to utter weighty words upon chance
occurrences, he said, "Obscure is the lot of the base-born, and mean is the fortune of the
lowly." Then he brought his ship up close and destroyed the pirates, who were trying to get
off their own vessel with poles, and busily engrossed in saving her. This accomplished, he
made his way back to the king's fleet; and wishing to cheer Frode with a greeting that heralded
his victory, he said, "Hail to the maker of a most prosperous peace!" The king prayed that
his word might come true, and declared that the spirit of the wise man was prophetic. Erik
answered that he spoke truly, and that the petty victory brought an omen of a greater one;
declaring that a presage of great matters could often be got from trifles. Then the king counselled
him to scatter his force, and ordered the horsemen of Jutland to go by the land way, while
the rest of the army went by the short sea-passage. But the sea was covered with such a throng
of vessels, that there were not enough harbours to take them in, nor shores for them to encamp
on, nor money for their provisions; while the land army is said to have been so great that,
in order to shorten the way, it levelled mountains, made marshes passable, filled up pits with
material, and the hugest chasms by casting in great boulders.

Meanwhile Strunik the King of the Sclavs sent envoys to ask for a truce; but Frode refused
him time to equip himself, saying that an enemy ought not to be furnished with a truce. Moreover,
he said, he had hitherto passed his life without experience of war, and now he ought not to
delay its beginning by waiting in doubt; for the man that conducted his first campaign successfully
might hope for as good fortune in the rest. For each side would take the augury afforded by
the first engagements as a presage of the combat; since the preliminary successes of war were
often a prophecy of the sequel. Erik commended the wisdom of the reply, declaring that the
game ought to be played abroad just as it had been begun at home: meaning that the Danes had
been challenged by the Sclavs. After these words he fought a furious battle, slew Strunik with
the bravest of his race, and received the surrender of the rest. Then Frode called the Sclavs
together, and proclaimed by a herald that any man among them who had been trained to theft
or plunder should be speedily given up; promising that he would reward the character of such
men with the highest honours. He also ordered that all of them, who were versed in evil arts
should come forth to have their reward. This offer pleased the Sclavs: and some of them, tempted
by their hopes of the gift, betrayed themselves with more avarice than judgment, before the
others could make them known. These were misled by such great covetousness, that they thought
less of shame than lucre, and accounted as their glory what was really their guilt. When these
had given themselves up of their own will, he said: "Sclavs! This is the pest from which you
must clear your land yourselves." And straightway he ordered the executioners to seize them,
and had them fixed upon the highest gallows by the hand of their own countrymen. The punishers
looked fewer than the punished. And thus the shrewd king, by refusing to those who owned their
guilt the pardon which he granted to the conquered foe, destroyed almost the entire stock of
the Sclavic race. Thus the longing for an undeserved reward was visited with a deserved penalty,
and the thirst for an undue wage justly punished. I should think that these men were rightly
delivered to their doom, who brought the peril on their own heads by speaking, when they could
have saved their lives by the protection of silence.

The king, exalted by the honours of his fresh victory, and loth to seem less strong in justice
than in battle, resolved to remodel his army by some new laws, some of which are retained by
present usage, while others men have chosen to abolish for new ones. (a) For he decreed, when
the spoil was divided, that each of the vanguard should receive a greater share than the rest
of the soldiery: while he granted all gold that was taken to the generals (before whom the
standards were always borne in battle) on account of their rank; wishing the common soldiers
to be content with silver. He ordered that the arms should go to the champions, but the captured
ships should pass to the common people, as the due of those who had the right of building and
equipping vessels. (b) Also he forbade that anyone should venture to lock up his household
goods, as he would receive double the value of any losses from the treasury of the king; but
if anyone thought fit to keep it in locked coffers, he must pay the king a gold mark. He also
laid down that anyone who spared a thief should be punished as a thief. (d) Further, that the
first man to flee in battle should forfeit all common rights. (e) But when he had returned
into Denmark he wished to amend by good measures any corruption caused by the evil practices
of Grep; and therefore granted women free choice in marriage, so that there might be no compulsory
wedlock. And so he provided by law that women should be held duly married to those whom they
had wedded without consulting their fathers. (f) But if a free woman agreed to marry a slave,
she must fall to his rank, lose the blessing of freedom, and adopt the standing of a slave.
(g) He also imposed on men the statute that they must marry any woman whom they had seduced.
(h) He ordained that adulterers should be deprived of a member by the lawful husbands, so that
continence might not be destroyed by shameful sins. (I) Also he ordained that if a Dane plundered
another Dane, he should repay double, and be held guilty of a breach of the peace. (k) And
if any man were to take to the house of another anything which he had got by thieving, his
host, if he shut the door of his house behind the man, should incur forfeiture of all his goods,
and should be beaten in full assembly, being regarded as having made himself guilty of the
same crime. (l) Also, whatsoever exile should turn enemy to his country, or bear a shield against
his countrymen, should be punished with the loss of life and goods. (m) But if any man, from
a contumacious spirit, were slack in fulfilling the orders of the king, he should be punished
with exile. For, on all occasion of any sudden and urgent war, an arrow of wood, looking like
iron, used to be passed on everywhere from man to man as a messenger. (n) But if any one of
the commons went in front of the vanguard in battle, he was to rise from a slave into a freeman,
and from a peasant into a nobleman; but if he were nobly-born already, he should be created
a governor. So great a guerdon did valiant men earn of old; and thus did the ancients think
noble rank the due of bravery. For it was thought that the luck a man had should be set down
to his valour, and not his valour to his luck. (o) He also enacted that no dispute should be
entered on with a promise made under oath and a gage deposited; but whosoever requested another
man to deposit a gage against him should pay that man half a gold mark, on pain of severe bodily
chastisement. For the king had foreseen that the greatest occasions of strife might arise from
the depositing of gages. (p) But he decided that any quarrel whatsoever should be decided by
the sword, thinking a combat of weapons more honourable than one of words. But if either of
the combatants drew back his foot, and stepped out of the ring of the circle previously marked,
he was to consider himself conquered, and suffer the loss of his case. But a man of the people,
if he attacked a champion on any score, should be armed to meet him; but the champion should
only fight with a truncheon an ell long. (q) Further, he appointed that if an alien killed
a Dane, his death should be redressed by the slaying of two foreigners.

Meanwhile, Gotar, in order to punish Erik, equipped his army for war: and Frode, on the other
side, equipped a great fleet to go against Norway. When both alike had put into Rennes-Isle,
Gotar, terrified by the greatness of Frode's name, sent ambassadors to pray for peace. Erik
said to them, "Shameless is the robber who is the first to seek peace, or ventures to offer
it to the good. He who longs to win must struggle: blow must counter blow, malice repel malice."

Gotar listened attentively to this from a distance, and then said, as loudly as he could: "Each
man fights for valour according as he remembers kindness." Erik said to him: "I have requited
thy kindness by giving thee back counsel." By this speech he meant that his excellent advice
was worth more than all manner of gifts. And, in order to show that Gotar was ungrateful for
the counsel he had received, he said: "When thou desiredst to take my life and my wife, thou
didst mar the look of thy fair example. Only the sword has the right to decide between us."
Then Gotar attacked the fleet of the Danes; he was unsuccessful in the engagement, and slain.

Afterwards Roller received his realm from Frode as a gift; it stretched over seven provinces.
Erik likewise presented Roller with the province which Gotar had once bestowed upon him. After
these exploits Frode passed three years in complete and tranquil peace.

Meanwhile the King of the Huns, when he heard that his daughter had been put away, allied himself
with Olmar, King of the Easterlings, and in two years equipped an armament against the Danes.
So Frode levied an army not only of native Danes, but also of Norwegians and Sclavs. Erik,
whom he had sent to spy out the array of the enemy, found Olmar, who had received the command
of the fleet, not far from Russia; while the King of the Huns led the land forces. He addressed
Olmar thus:

"What means, prithee, this strong equipment of war? Or whither dost thou speed, King Olmar,
mighty in thy fleet?"

Olmar. "We are minded to attack the son of Fridleif. And who art thou, whose bold lips ask
such questions?"

Erik. "Vain hope of conquering the unconquered hath filled thy heart; over Frode no man can
prevail."

Olmar. "Whatsoever befalls, must once happen for the first time; and often enough the unexpected
comes to pass."

By this saying he let him know that no man must put too much trust in fortune. Then Erik rode
up to inspect the army of the Huns. As it passed by him, and he in turn by it, it showed its
vanguard to the rising and its rear to the setting sun. So he asked those whom he met, who
had the command of all those thousands. Hun, the King of the Huns, happened to see him, and
heard that he had undertaken to reconnoitre, and asked what was the name of the questioner.
Erik said he was the man who came everywhere and was found nowhere. Then the king, when an
interpreter was brought, asked what work Frode was about. Erik replied, "Frode never waits
at home for a hostile army, nor tarries in his house for his foe. For he who covets the pinnacle
of another's power must watch and wake all night. No man has ever won a victory by snoring,
and no wolf has ever found a carcase by lying asleep."

The king, perceiving that he was a cunning speaker of choice maxims, said: "Here, perchance,
is that Erik who, as I have heard, accused my daughter falsely."

But Erik, when they were bidden to seize him instantly, said that it was unseemly for one man
to be dragged off by really; and by this saying he not only appeased the mind of the king,
but even inclined him to be willing to pardon him. But it was clear that this impunity came
more from cunning than kindness; for the chief reason why he was let go was that he might terrify
Frode by the report of their vast numbers. When he returned, Frode bad him relate what he had
discovered, and he said that he had seen six kings each with his fleet; and that each of these
fleets contained five thousand ships, each ship being known to hold three hundred rowers. Each
millenary of the whole total he said consisted of four wings; now, since the full number of
a wing is three hundred, he meant that a millenary should be understood to contain twelve hundred
men. When Frode wavered in doubt what he could do against so many, and looked eagerly round
for reinforcements, Erik said: "Boldness helps the righteous; a valiant dog must attack the
bear; we want wolf-hounds, and not little unwarlike birds." This said, he advised Frode to
muster his fleet. When it was drawn up they sailed off against the enemy; and so they fought
and subdued the islands lying between Denmark and the East; and as they advanced thence, met
some ships of the Ruthenian fleet. Frode thought it shameful to attack such a handful, but
Erik said: "We must seek food from the gaunt and lean. He who falls shall seldom fatten, nor
has that man the power to bite whom the huge sack has devoured." By this warning he cured the
king of all shame about making an assault, and presently induced him to attack a small number
with a throng; for he showed him that advantage must be counted before honour.

After this they went on to meet Olmar, who because of the slowness of his multitude preferred
awaiting the enemy to attacking it; for the vessels of the Ruthenians seemed disorganized,
and, owing to their size, not so well able to row. But not even did the force of his multitudes
avail him. For the extraordinary masses of the Ruthenians were stronger in numbers than in
bravery, and yielded the victory to the stout handful of the Danes.

When Frode tried to return home, his voyage encountered an unheard-of difficulty. For the crowds
of dead bodies, and likewise the fragments of shields and spears, bestrewed the entire gulf
of the sea, and tossed on the tide, so that the harbours were not only straitened, but stank.
The vessels stuck, hampered amid the corpses. They could neither thrust off with oars, nor
drive away with poles, the rotting carcases that floated around, or prevent, when they had
put one away, another rolling up and driving against the fleet. You would have thought that
a war had arisen with the dead, and there was a strange combat with the lifeless.

So Frode summoned the nations which he had conquered, and enacted (a) that any father of a
family who had fallen in that war should be buried with his horse and all his arms and decorations.
And if any body-snatcher, in his abominable covetousness, made an attempt on him, he was to
suffer for it, not only with his life, but also with the loss of burial for his own body; he
should have no barrow and no funeral. For he thought it just that he who despoiled another's
ashes should be granted no burial, but should repeat in his own person the fate he had inflicted
on another. He appointed that the body of a centurion or governor should receive funeral on
a pyre built of his own ship. He ordered that the bodies of every ten pilots should be burnt
together with a single ship, but that every earl or king that was killed should be put on his
own ship and burnt with it. He wished this nice attention to be paid in conducting the funerals
of the slain, because he wished to prevent indiscriminate obsequies. By this time all the kings
of the Russians except Olmar and Dag had fallen in battle. (b) He also ordered the Russians
to conduct their warfare in imitation of the Danes, and never to marry a wife without buying
her. He thought that bought marriages would have more security, believing that the troth which
was sealed with a price was the safest. (d) Moreover, anyone who durst attempt the violation
of a virgin was to be punished with the severance of his bodily parts, or else to requite the
wrong of his intercourse with a thousand talents. (e) He also enacted that any man that applied
himself to war, who aspired to the title of tried soldier, should attack a single man, should
stand the attack of two, should only withdraw his foot a little to avoid three, but should
not blush to flee from four. (f) He also proclaimed that a new custom concerning the pay of
the soldiers should be observed by the princes under his sway. He ordered that each native
soldier and housecarl should be presented in the winter season with three marks of silver,
a common or hired soldier with two, a private soldier who had finished his service with only
one. By this law he did injustice to valour, reckoning the rank of the soldiers and not their
courage; and he was open to the charge of error in the matter, because he set familiar acquaintance
above desert.

After this the king asked Erik whether the army of the Huns was as large as the forces of Olmar,
and Erik answered in the following song:

"By Hercules, I came on a countless throng, a throng that neither earth nor wave could hold.
Thick flared all their camp-fires, and the whole wood blazed up; the flame betokened a numberless
array. The earth sank under the fraying of the horse-hoofs; creaking waggons rattled swiftly.
The wheels rumbled, the driver rode upon the winds, so that the chariots sounded like thunder.
The earth hardly bore the throngs of men-at-arms, speeding on confusedly; they trod it, but
it could not bear their weight. I thought that the air crashed and the earth was shaken, so
mighty was the motion of the stranger army. For I saw fifteen standards flickering at once;
each of them had a hundred lesser standards, and after each of these could have been seen twenty;
and the captains in their order were equal in number to the standards."

Now when Frode asked wherewithal he was to resist so many, Erik instructed him that he must
return home and suffer the enemy first to perish of their own hugeness. His counsel was obeyed,
the advice being approved as heartily as it was uttered. But the Huns went on through pathless
deserts, and, finding provisions nowhere, began to run the risk of general starvation; for
it was a huge and swampy district, and nothing could be found to relieve their want. At last,
when the beasts of burden had been cut down and eaten, they began to scatter, lacking carriages
as much as food. Now their straying from the road was as perilous to them as their hunger.
Neither horses nor asses were spared, nor did they refrain from filthy garbage. At last they
did not even spare dogs: to dying men every abomination was lawful; for there is nothing too
hard for the bidding of extreme need. At last when they were worn out with hunger, there came
a general mortality. Bodies were carried out for burial without end, for all feared to perish,
and none pitied the perishing. Fear indeed had cast out humanity. So first the divisions deserted
from the king little by little; and then the army melted away by companies. He was also deserted
by the prophet Ygg, a man of unknown age, which was prolonged beyond the human span; this man
went as a deserter to Frode, and told him of all the preparations of the Huns.

Meanwhile Hedin, prince of a considerable tribe of the Norwegians, approached the fleet of
Frode with a hundred and fifty vessels. Choosing twelve out of these, he proceeded to cruise
nearer, signalling the approach of friends by a shield raised on the mast. He thus greatly
augmented the forces of the king, and was received into his closest friendship. A mutual love
afterwards arose between this man and Hilda, the daughter of Hogni, a chieftain of the Jutes,
and a maiden of most eminent renown. For, though they had not yet seen one another, each had
been kindled by the other's glory. But when they had a chance of beholding one another, neither
could look away; so steadfast was the love that made their eyes linger.

Meanwhile, Frode distributed his soldiers through the towns, and carefully gathered in the
materials needed for the winter supplies; but even so he could not maintain his army, with
its burden of expense: and plague fell on him almost as great as the destruction that met the
Huns. Therefore, to prevent the influx of foreigners, he sent a fleet to the Elbe to take care
that nothing should cross; the admirals were Revil and Mevil. When the winter broke up, Hedin
and Hogni resolved to make a roving-raid together; for Hogni did not know that his partner
was in love with his daughter. Now Hogni was of unusual stature, and stiff in temper; while
Hedin was very comely, but short. Also, when Frode saw that the cost of keeping up his army
grew daily harder to bear, he sent Roller to Norway, Olmar to Sweden, King Onef and Glomer,
a rover captain, to the Orkneys for supplies, each with his own forces. Thirty kings followed
Frode, and were his friends or vassals. But when Hun heard that Frode had sent away his forces
he mustered another and a fresh army. But Hogni betrothed his daughter to Hedin, after they
had sworn to one another that whichever of them should perish by the sword should be avenged
by the other.

In the autumn, the men in search of supplies came back, but they were richer in trophies than
in food. For Roller had made tributary the provinces Sundmor and Nordmor, after slaying Arthor
their king. But Olmar conquered Thor the Long, the King of the Jemts and the Helsings, with
two other captains of no less power, and also took Esthonia and Kurland, with Oland, and the
isles that fringe Sweden; thus he was a most renowned conqueror of savage lands. So he brought
back 700 ships, thus doubling the numbers of those previously taken out. Onef and Glomer, Hedin
and Hogni, won victories over the Orkneys, and returned with 900 ships. And by this time revenues
had been got in from far and wide, and there were ample materials gathered by plunder to recruit
their resources. They had also added twenty kingdoms to the sway of Frode, whose kings, added
to the thirty named before, fought on the side of the Danes.

Trusting in their strength, they engaged with the Huns. Such a carnage broke out on the first
day of this combat that the three chief rivers of Russia were bestrewn with a kind of bridge
of corpses, and could be crossed and passed over. Also the traces of the massacre spread so
wide that for the space of three days' ride the ground was to be seen covered with human carcases.
So, when the battle had been seven days prolonged, King Hun fell; and his brother of the same
name, when he saw the line of the Huns giving way, without delay surrendered himself and his
company. In that war 170 kings, who were either Huns or fighting amongst the Huns, surrendered
to the king. This great number Erik had comprised in his previous description of the standards,
when he was giving an account of the multitude of the Huns in answer to the questions of Frode.
So Frode summoned the kings to assembly, and imposed a rule upon them that they should all
live under one and the same law. Now he set Olmar over Holmgard; Onef over Conogard; and he
bestowed Saxony on Hun, his prisoner, and gave Revil the Orkneys. To one Dimar he allotted
the management of the provinces of the Helsings, of the Jarnbers, and the Jemts, as well as
both Laplands; while on Dag he bestowed the government of Esthonia. Each of these men he burdened
with fixed conditions of tribute, thus making allegiance a condition of his kindness. So the
realms of Frode embraced Russia on the east, and on the west were bounded by the Rhine.

Meantime, certain slanderous tongues accused Hedin to Hogni of having tempted and defiled his
daughter before the rites of betrothal; which was then accounted an enormous crime by all nations.
So the credulous ears of Hogni drank in this lying report, and with his fleet he attacked Hedin,
who was collecting the king's dues among the Slavs; there was an engagement, and Hogni was
beaten, and went to Jutland. And thus the peace instituted by Frode was disturbed by intestine
war, and natives were the first to disobey the king's law. Frode, therefore, sent men to summon
them both at once, and inquired closely what was the reason of their feud. When he had heard
it, he gave judgment according to the terms of the law he had enacted; but when he saw that
even this could not reconcile them (for the father obstinately demanded his daughter back),
he decreed that the quarrel should be settled by the sword--it seemed the only remedy for ending
the dispute. The fight began, and Hedin was grievously wounded; but when he began to lose blood
and bodily strength, he received unexpected mercy from his enemy. For though Hogni had an easy
chance of killing him, yet, pitying youth and beauty, he constrained his cruelty to give way
to clemency. And so, loth to cut off a stripling who was panting at his last gasp, he refrained
his sword. For of old it was accounted shameful to deprive of his life one who was ungrown
or a weakling; so closely did the antique bravery of champions take heed of all that could
incline them to modesty. So Hedin, with the help of his men, was taken back to his ship, saved
by the kindness of his foe.

In the seventh year after, these same men began to fight on Hedin's isle, and wounded each
other so that they died. Hogni would have been lucky if he had shown severity rather than compassion
to Hedin when he had once conquered him. They say that Hilda longed so ardently for her husband,
that she is believed to have conjured up the spirits of the combatants by her spells in the
night in order to renew the war.

At the same time came to pass a savage war between Alrik, king of the Swedes, and Gestiblind,
king of the Goths. The latter, being the weaker, approached Frode as a suppliant, willing,
if he might get his aid, to surrender his kingdom and himself. He soon received the aid of
Skalk, the Skanian, and Erik, and came back with reinforcements. He had determined to let loose
his attack on Alrik, but Erik thought that he should first assail his son Gunthion, governor
of the men of Wermland and Solongs, declaring that the storm-weary mariner ought to make for
the nearest shore, and moreover that the rootless trunk seldom burgeoned. So he made an attack,
wherein perished Gunthion, whose tomb records his name. Alrik, when he heard of the destruction
of his son, hastened to avenge him, and when he had observed his enemies, he summoned Erik,
and, in a secret interview, recounted the leagues of their fathers, imploring him to refuse
to fight for Gestiblind. This Erik steadfastly declined, and Alrik then asked leave to fight
Gestiblind, thinking that a duel was better than a general engagement. But Erik said that Gestiblind
was unfit for arms by reason of old age, pleading his bad health, and above all his years;
but offered himself to fight in his place, explaining that it would be shameful to decline
a duel on behalf of the man for whom he had come to make a war. Then they fought without delay:
Alrik was killed, and Erik was most severely wounded; it was hard to find remedies, and he
did not for long time recover health. Now a false report had come to Frode that Erik had fallen,
and was tormenting the king's mind with sore grief; but Erik dispelled this sadness with his
welcome return; indeed, he reported to Frode that by his efforts Sweden, Wermland, Helsingland,
and the islands of the Sun (Soleyar) had been added to his realm. Frode straightway made him
king of the nations he had subdued, and also granted to him Helsingland with the two Laplands,
Finland and Esthonia, under a yearly tribute. None of the Swedish kings before him was called
by the name of Erik, but the title passed from him to the rest.

At the same time Alf was king in Hethmark, and he had a son Asmund. Biorn ruled in the province
of Wik, and had a son Aswid. Asmund was engaged on an unsuccessful hunt, and while he was proceeding
either to stalk the game with dogs or to catch it in nets, a mist happened to come on. By this
he was separated from his sharers on a lonely track, wandered over the dreary ridges, and at
last, destitute of horse and clothing, ate fungi and mushrooms, and wandered on aimlessly till
he came to the dwelling of King Biorn. Moreover, the son of the king and he, when they had
lived together a short while, swore by every vow, in order to ratify the friendship which they
observed to one another, that whichever of them lived longest should be buried with him who
died. For their fellowship and love were so strong, that each determined he would not prolong
his days when the other was cut off by death.

After this Frode gathered together a host of all his subject nations, and attacked Norway with
his fleet, Erik being bidden to lead the land force. For, after the fashion of human greed,
the more he gained the more he wanted, and would not suffer even the dreariest and most rugged
region of the world to escape this kind of attack; so much is increase of wealth wont to encourage
covetousness. So the Norwegians, casting away all hope of self-defence, and losing all confidence
in their power to revolt, began to flee for the most part to Halogaland. The maiden Stikla
also withdrew from her country to save her chastity, proferring the occupations of war to those
of wedlock.

Meanwhile Aswid died of an illness, and was consigned with his horse and dog to a cavern in
the earth. To examine it, a man was wanted, who would lower himself on a hanging rope tied
around him. One of the quickest of the youths was chosen by lot; and Asmund, when he saw him
let down in a basket following a rope, straightway cast him out and climbed into the basket.
Then he gave the signal to draw him up to those above who were standing by and controlling
the rope. They drew in the basket in the hopes of great treasure; but when they saw the unknown
figure of the man they had taken out, they were scared by his extraordinary look, and, thinking
that the dead had come to life, flung down the rope and fled all ways. For Asmund looked ghastly
and seemed to be covered as with the corruption of the charnel. He tried to recall the fugitives,
and began to clamour that they were wrongfully afraid of a living man. And when Erik saw him,
he marvelled most at the aspect of his bloody face: the blood flowing forth and spurting over
it. For Aswid had come to life in the nights, and in his continual struggles had wrenched off
his left ear; and there was to be seen the horrid sight of a raw and unhealed scar. And when
the bystanders bade him tell how he had got such a wound, he began to speak thus:--

"Why stand ye aghast, who see me colourless? Surely every live man fades among the dead. Evil
to the lonely man, and burdensome to the single, remains every dwelling in the world. Hapless
are they whom chance hath bereft of human help. The listless night of the cavern, the darkness
of the ancient den, have taken all joy from my eyes and soul. The ghastly ground, the crumbling
barrow, and the heavy tide of filthy things have marred the grace of my youthful countenance,
and sapped my wonted pith and force. Besides all this, I have fought with the dead, enduring
the heavy burden and grievous peril of the wrestle; Aswid rose again and fell on me with rending
nails, by hellish might renewing ghastly warfare after he was ashes.

"By some strange enterprise of the power of hell the spirit of Aswid was sent up from the nether
world, and with cruel tooth eats the fleet-footed (horse), and has given his dog to his abominable
jaws. Not sated with devouring the horse or hound, he soon turned his swift nails upon me,
tearing my cheek and taking off my ear. Hence the hideous sight of my slashed countenance,
the blood-spurts in the ugly wound. Yet the bringer of horrors did it not unscathed; for soon
I cut off his head with my steel, and impaled his guilty carcase with a stake.

Frode had by this taken his fleet over to Halogaland; and here, in order to learn the numbers
of his host, which seemed to surpass all bounds and measure that could be counted, he ordered
his soldiers to pile up a hill, one stone being cast upon the heap for each man. The enemy
also pursued the same method of numbering their host, and the hills are still to be seen to
convince the visitor. Here Frode joined battle with the Norwegians, and the day was bloody.
At nightfall both sides determined to retreat. As daybreak drew near, Erik, who had come across
the land, came up and advised the king to renew the battle. In this war the Danes suffered
such slaughter that out of 3,000 ships only 170 are supposed to have survived. The Northmen,
however, were exterminated in such a mighty massacre, that (so the story goes) there were not
men left to till even a fifth of their villages.

Frode, now triumphant, wished to renew peace among all nations, that he might ensure each man's
property from the inroads of thieves and now ensure peace to his realms after war. So he hung
one bracelet on a crag which is called Frode's Rock, and another in the district of Wik, after
he had addressed the assembled Norwegians; threatening that these necklaces should serve to
test the honesty which he had decreed, and threatening that if they were filched punishment
should fall on all the governors of the district. And thus, sorely imperilling the officers,
there was the gold unguarded, hanging up full in the parting of the roads, and the booty, so
easy to plunder, a temptation to all covetous spirits. (a) Frode also enacted that seafarers
should freely use oars wherever they found them; while to those who wished to cross a river
he granted free use of the horse which they found nearest to the ford. He decreed that they
must dismount from this horse when its fore feet only touched land and its hind feet were still
washed by the waters. For he thought that services such as these should rather be accounted
kindness than wrongdoing. Moreover, he ordained that whosoever durst try and make further use
of the horse after he had crossed the river should be condemned to death. (b) He also ordered
that no man should hold his house or his coffer under lock and key, or should keep anything
guarded by bolts, promising that all losses should be made good threefold. Also, he appointed
that it was lawful to claim as much of another man's food for provision as would suffice for
a single supper. If anyone exceeded this measure in his takings, he was to be held guilty of
theft. Now, a thief (so he enacted) was to be hung up with a sword passed through his sinews,
with a wolf fastened by his side, so that the wicked man might look like the savage beast,
both being punished alike. He also had the same penalty extended to accomplices in thefts.
Here he passed seven most happy years of peace, begetting a son Alf and a daughter Eyfura.

It chanced that in these days Arngrim, a champion of Sweden, who had challenged, attacked,
and slain Skalk the Skanian because he had once robbed him of a vessel, came to Frode. Elated
beyond measure with his deed, he ventured to sue for Frode's daughter; but, finding the king
deaf to him, he asked Erik, who was ruling Sweden, to help him. Erik advised him to win Frode's
goodwill by some illustrious service, and to fight against Egther, the King of Permland, and
Thengil, the King of Finmark, since they alone seemed to repudiate the Danish rule, while all
men else submitted. Without delay he led his army to that country. Now, the Finns are the uttermost
peoples of the North, who have taken a portion of the world that is barely habitable to till
and dwell in. They are very keen spearmen, and no nation has a readier skill in throwing the
javelin. They fight with large, broad arrows; they are addicted to the study of spells; they
are skilled hunters. Their habitation is not fixed, and their dwellings are migratory; they
pitch and settle wherever they have caught game. Riding on curved boards (skees or snow-skates),
they run over ridges thick with snow. These men Arngrim attacked, in order to win renown, and
he crushed them. They fought with ill success; but, as they were scattering in flight, they
cast three pebbles behind them, which they caused to appear to the eyes of the enemy like three
mountains. Arngrim's eyes were dazzled and deluded, and he called back his men from the pursuit
of the enemy, fancying that he was checked by a barrier of mighty rocks. Again, when they engaged
and were beaten on the morrow, the Finns cast snow upon the ground and made it look like a
mighty river. So the Swedes, whose eyes were utterly deluded, were deceived by their misjudgment,
for it seemed the roaring of an extraordinary mass of waters. Thus, the conqueror dreading
the unsubstantial phantom of the waters, the Finns managed to escape. They renewed the war
again on the third day; but there was no effective means of escape left any longer, for when
they saw that their lines were falling back, they surrendered to the conqueror. Arngrim imposed
on them the following terms of tribute: that the number of the Finns should be counted, and
that, after the lapse of (every) three years, every ten of them should pay a carriage-full
of deer-skins by way of assessment. Then he challenged and slew in single combat Egther, the
captain of the men of Permland, imposing on the men of Permland the condition that each of
them should pay one skin. Enriched with these spoils and trophies, he returned to Erik, who
went with him into Denmark, and poured loud praises of the young warrior into the ear of Frode,
declaring that he who had added the ends of the world to his realms deserved his daughter.
Then Frode, considering his splendid deserts, thought it was not amiss to take for a son-in-law
a man who had won wide-resounding fame by such a roll of noble deeds.

Arngrim had twelve sons by Eyfura, whose names I here subjoin: Brand, Biarbe, Brodd, Hiarrande;
Tand, Tyrfing, two Haddings; Hiortuar, Hiartuar, Hrane, Anganty. These followed the business
of sea-roving from their youth up; and they chanced to sail all in one ship to the island Samso,
where they found lying off the coast two ships belonging to Hialmar and Arvarodd (Arrow-Odd)
the rovers. These ships they attacked and cleared of rowers; but, not knowing whether they
had cut down the captains, they fitted the bodies of the slain to their several thwarts, and
found that those whom they sought were missing. At this they were sad, knowing that the victory
they had won was not worth a straw, and that their safety would run much greater risk in the
battle that was to come. In fact, Hialmar and Arvarodd, whose ships had been damaged by a storm,
which had torn off their rudders, went into a wood to hew another; and, going round the trunk
with their axes, pared down the shapeless timber until the huge stock assumed the form of a
marine implement. This they shouldered, and were bearing it down to the beach, ignorant of
the disaster of their friends, when the sons of Eyfura, reeking with the fresh blood of the
slain, attacked them, so that they two had to fight many; the contest was not even equal, for
it was a band of twelve against two. But the victory did not go according to the numbers. For
all the sons of Eyfura were killed; Hialmar was slain by them, but Arvarodd gained the honours
of victory, being the only survivor left by fate out of all that band of comrades. He, with
an incredible effort, poised the still shapeless hulk of the rudder, and drove it so strongly
against the bodies of his foes that, with a single thrust of it, he battered and crushed all
twelve. And, so, though they were rid of the general storm of war, the band of rovers did not
yet quit the ocean.

This it was that chiefly led Frode to attack the West, for his one desire was the spread of
peace. So he summoned Erik, and mustered a fleet of all the kingdoms that bid him allegiance,
and sailed to Britain with numberless ships. But the king of that island, perceiving that he
was unequal in force (for the ships seemed to cover the sea), went to Frode, affecting to surrender,
and not only began to flatter his greatness, but also promised to the Danes, the conquerors
of nations, the submission of himself and of his country; proffering taxes, assessment, tribute,
what they would. Finally, he gave them a hospitable invitation. Frode was pleased with the
courtesy of the Briton, though his suspicions of treachery were kept by so ready and unconstrained
a promise of everything, so speedy a surrender of the enemy before fighting; such offers being
seldom made in good faith. They were also troubled with alarm about the banquet, fearing that
as drunkenness came on their sober wits might be entangled in it, and attacked by hidden treachery.
So few guests were bidden, moreover, that it seemed unsafe for them to accept the invitation;
and it was further thought foolish to trust their lives to the good faith of an enemy whom
they did not know.

When the king found their minds thus wavering he again approached Frode, and invited him to
the banquet with 2,400 men; having before bidden him to come to the feast with 1,200 nobles.
Frode was encouraged by the increase in the number of guests, and was able to go to the banquet
with greater inward confidence; but he could not yet lay aside his suspicions, and privily
caused men to scour the interior and let him know quickly of any treachery which they might
espy. On this errand they went into the forest, and, coming upon the array of an armed encampment
belonging to the forces of the Britons, they halted in doubt, but hastily retraced their steps
when the truth was apparent. For the tents were dusky in colour, and muffled in a sort of pitchy
coverings, that they might not catch the eye of anyone who came near. When Frode learned this,
he arranged a counter-ambuscade with a strong force of nobles, that he might not go heedlessly
to the banquet, and be cheated of timely aid. They went into hiding, and he warned them that
the note of the trumpet was the signal for them to bring assistance. Then with a select band,
lightly armed, he went to the banquet. The hall was decked with regal splendour; it was covered
all round with crimson hangings of marvellous rich handiwork. A curtain of purple dye adorned
the propelled walls. The flooring was bestrewn with bright mantles, which a man would fear
to trample on. Up above was to be seen the twinkle of many lanterns, the gleam of lamps lit
with oil, and the censers poured forth fragrance whose sweet vapour was laden with the choicest
perfumes. The whole way was blocked by the tables loaded with good things; and the places for
reclining were decked with gold-embroidered couches; the seats were full of pillows. The majestic
hall seemed to smile upon the guests, and nothing could be noticed in all that pomp either
inharmonious to the eye or offensive to the smell. In the midst of the hall stood a great butt
ready for refilling the goblets, and holding an enormous amount of liquor; enough could be
drawn from it for the huge revel to drink its fill. Servants, dressed in purple, bore golden
cups, and courteously did the office of serving the drink, pacing in ordered ranks. Nor did
they fail to offer the draught in the horns of the wild ox.

The feast glittered with golden bowls, and was laden with shining goblets, many of them studded
with flashing jewels. The place was filled with an immense luxury; the tables groaned with
the dishes, and the bowls brimmed over with divers liquors. Nor did they use wine pure and
simple, but, with juices sought far and wide, composed a nectar of many flavours. The dishes
glistened with delicious foods, being filled mostly with the spoils of the chase; though the
flesh of tame animals was not lacking either. The natives took care to drink more sparingly
than the guests; for the latter felt safe, and were tempted to make an orgy; while the others,
meditating treachery, had lost all temptations to be drunken. So the Danes, who, if I may say
so with my country's leave, were seasoned to drain the bowl against each other, took quantities
of wine. The Britons, when they saw that the Danes were very drunk, began gradually to slip
away from the banquet, and, leaving their guests within the hall, made immense efforts, first
to block the doors of the palace by applying bars and all kinds of obstacles, and then to set
fire to the house. The Danes were penned inside the hall, and when the fire began to spread,
battered vainly at the doors; but they could not get out, and soon attempted to make a sally
by assaulting the wall. And the Angles, when they saw that it was tottering under the stout
attack of the Danes, began to shove against it on their side, and to prop the staggering pile
by the application of large blocks on the outside, to prevent the wall being shattered and
releasing the prisoners. But at last it yielded to the stronger hand of the Danes, whose efforts
increased with their peril; and those pent within could sally out with ease. Then Frode bade
the trumpet strike in, to summon the band that had been posted in ambush; and these, roused
by the note of the clanging bugle, caught the enemy in their own trap; for the King of the
Britons, with countless hosts of his men, was utterly destroyed. Thus the band helped Frode
doubly, being both the salvation of his men and the destruction of his enemies.

Meantime the renown of the Danish bravery spread far, and moved the Irish to strew iron calthrops
on the ground, in order to make their land harder to invade, and forbid access to their shores.
Now the Irish use armour which is light and easy to procure. They crop the hair close with
razors, and shave all the hair off the back of the head, that they may not be seized by it
when they run away. They also turn the points of their spears towards the assailant, and deliberately
point their sword against the pursuer; and they generally fling their lances behind their back,
being more skilled at conquering by flight than by fighting. Hence, when you fancy that the
victory is yours, then is the moment of danger. But Frode was wary and not rash in his pursuit
of the foe who fled so treacherously, and he routed Kerwil (Cearbal), the leader of the nation,
in battle. Kerwil's brother survived, but lost heart for resistance, and surrendered his country
to the king (Frode), who distributed among his soldiers the booty he had won, to show himself
free from all covetousness and excessive love of wealth, and only ambitious to gain honour.

After the triumphs in Britain and the spoiling of the Irish they went back to Denmark; and
for thirty years there was a pause from all warfare. At this time the Danish name became famous
over the whole world almost for its extraordinary valour. Frode, therefore, desired to prolong
and establish for ever the lustre of his empire, and made it his first object to inflict severe
treatment upon thefts and brigandage, feeling these were domestic evils and intestine plagues,
and that if the nations were rid of them they would come to enjoy a more tranquil life; so
that no ill-will should mar and hinder the continual extention of peace. He also took care
that the land should not be devoured by any plague at home when the enemy was at rest, and
that intestine wickedness should not encroach when there was peace abroad. At last he ordered
that in Jutland, the chief district of his realm, a golden bracelet, very heavy, should be
set up on the highways (as he had done before in the district of Wik), wishing by this magnificent
price to test the honesty which he had enacted. Now, though the minds of the dishonest were
vexed with the provocation it furnished, and the souls of the evil tempted, yet the unquestioned
dread of danger prevailed. For so potent was the majesty of Frode, that it guarded even gold
that was thus exposed to pillage, as though it were fast with bolts and bars. The strange device
brought great glory upon its inventor. After dealing destruction everywhere, and gaining famous
victories far and wide, he resolved to bestow quiet on all men, that the cheer of peace should
follow the horrors of war, and the end of slaughter might be the beginning of safety. He further
thought that for the same reason all men's property should be secured to them by a protective
decree, so that what had been saved from a foreign enemy might not find a plunderer at home.

About the same time, the Author of our general salvation, coming to the earth in order to save
mortals, bore to put on the garb of mortality; at which time the fires of war were quenched,
and all the lands were enjoying the calmest and most tranquil peace. It has been thought that
the peace then shed abroad so widely, so even and uninterrupted over the whole world, attended
not so much an earthly rule as that divine birth; and that it was a heavenly provision that
this extraordinary gift of time should be a witness to the presence of Him who created all times.

Meantime a certain matron, skilled in sorcery, who trusted in her art more than she feared
the severity of the king, tempted the covetousness of her son to make a secret effort for the
prize; promising him impunity, since Frode was almost at death's door, his body failing, and
the remnant of his doting spirit feeble. To his mother's counsels he objected the greatness
of the peril; but she bade him take hope, declaring, that either a sea-cow should have a calf,
or that the king's vengeance should be baulked by some other chance. By this speech she banished
her son's fears, and made him obey her advice. When the deed was done, Frode, stung by the
affront, rushed with the utmost heat and fury to raze the house of the matron, sending men
on to arrest her and bring her with her children. This the woman foreknew, and deluded her
enemies by a trick, changing from the shape of a woman into that of a mare. When Frode came
up she took the shape of a sea-cow, and seemed to be straying and grazing about the shore;
and she also made her sons look like calves of smaller size. This portent amazed the king,
and he ordered that they should be surrounded and cut off from returning to the waters. Then
he left the carriage, which he used because of the feebleness of his aged body, and sat on
the ground marvelling. But the mother, who had taken the shape of the larger beast, charged
at the king with outstretched tusk, and pierced one of his sides. The wound killed him; and
his end was unworthy of such majesty as his. His soldiers, thirsting to avenge his death, threw
their spears and transfixed the monsters, and saw, when they were killed, that they were the
corpses of human beings with the heads of wild beasts: a circumstance which exposed the trick
more than anything.

So ended Frode, the most famous king in the whole world. The nobles, when he had been disembowelled,
had his body kept embalmed for three years, for they feared the provinces would rise if the
king's end were published. They wished his death to be concealed above all from foreigners,
so that by the pretence that he was alive they might preserve the boundaries of the empire,
which had been extended for so long; and that, on the strength of the ancient authority of
their general, they might exact the usual tribute from their subjects. So, the lifeless corpse
was carried away by them in such a way that it seemed to be taken, not in a funeral bier, but
in a royal carriage, as if it were a due and proper tribute from the soldiers to an infirm
old man not in full possession of his forces. Such splendour did his friends bestow on him
even in death. But when his limbs rotted, and were seized with extreme decay, and when the
corruption could not be arrested, they buried his body with a royal funeral in a barrow near
Waere, a bridge of Zealand; declaring that Frode had desired to die and be buried in what was
thought the chief province of his kingdom.

BOOK SIX.

After the death of Frode, the Danes wrongly supposed that Fridleif, who was being reared in
Russia, had perished; and, thinking that the sovereignty halted for lack of an heir, and that
it could no longer be kept on in the hands of the royal line, they considered that the sceptre
would be best deserved by the man who should affix to the yet fresh grave of Frode a song of
praise in his glorification, and commit the renown of the dead king to after ages by a splendid
memorial. Then one HIARN, very skilled in writing Danish poetry, wishing to give the fame of
the hero some notable record of words, and tempted by the enormous prize, composed, after his
own fashion, a barbarous stave. Its purport, expressed in four lines, I have transcribed as
follows:

"Frode, whom the Danes would have wished to live long, they bore long through their lands when
he was dead. The great chief's body, with this turf heaped above it, bare earth covers under
the lucid sky."

When the composer of this song had uttered it, the Danes rewarded him with the crown. Thus
they gave a kingdom for an epitaph, and the weight of a whole empire was presented to a little
string of letters. Slender expense for so vast a guerdon! This huge payment for a little poem
exceeded the glory of Caesar's recompense; for it was enough for the divine Julius to pension
with a township the writer and glorifier of those conquests which he had achieved over the
whole world. But now the spendthrift kindness of the populace squandered a kingdom on a churl.
Nay, not even Africanus, when he rewarded the records of his deed, rose to the munificence
of the Danes. For there the wage of that laborious volume was in mere gold, while here a few
callow verses won a sceptre for a peasant.

At the same time Erik, who held the governorship of Sweden, died of disease; and his son Halfdan,
who governed in his father's stead, alarmed by the many attacks of twelve brothers of Norwegian
birth, and powerless to punish their violence, fled, hoping for reinforcements, to ask aid
of Fridleif, then sojourning in Russia. Approaching him with a suppliant face, he lamented
that he was himself shattered and bruised by a foreign foe, and brought a dismal plaint of
his wrongs. From him Fridleif heard the tidings of his father's death, and granting the aid
he sought, went to Norway in armed array. At this time the aforesaid brothers, their allies
forsaking them, built a very high rampart within an island surrounded by a swift stream, also
extending their earthworks along the level. Trusting to this refuge, they harried the neighborhood
with continual raids. For they built a bridge on which they used to get to the mainland when
they left the island. This bridge was fastened to the gate of the stronghold; and they worked
it by the guidance of ropes, in such a way that it turned as if on some revolving hinge, and
at one time let them pass across the river; while at another, drawn back from above by unseen
cords, it helped to defend the entrance.

These warriors were of valiant temper, young and stalwart, of splendid bodily presence, renowned
for victories over giants, full of trophies of conquered nations, and wealthy with spoil. I
record the names of some of them--for the rest have perished in antiquity--Gerbiorn, Gunbiorn,
Arinbiorn, Stenbiorn, Esbiorn, Thorbiorn, and Biorn. Biorn is said to have had a horse which
was splendid and of exceeding speed, so that when all the rest were powerless to cross the
river it alone stemmed the roaring eddy without weariness. This rapid comes down in so swift
and sheer a volume that animals often lose all power of swimming in it, and perish. For, trickling
from the topmost crests of the hills, it comes down the steep sides, catches on the rocks,
and is shattered, falling into the deep valleys with a manifold clamour of waters; but, being
straightway rebuffed by the rocks that bar the way, it keeps the speed of its current ever
at the same even pace. And so, along the whole length of the channel, the waves are one turbid
mass, and the white foam brims over everywhere. But, after rolling out of the narrows between
the rocks, it spreads abroad in a slacker and stiller flood, and turns into an island a rock
that lies in its course. On either side of the rock juts out a sheer ridge, thick with divers
trees, which screen the river from distant view. Biorn had also a dog of extraordinary fierceness,
a terribly vicious brute, dangerous for people to live with, which had often singly destroyed
twelve men. But, since the tale is hearsay rather than certainty, let good judges weigh its
credit. This dog, as I have heard, was the favourite of the giant Offot (Un-foot), and used
to watch his herd amid the pastures.

Now the warriors, who were always pillaging the neighbourhood, used often to commit great slaughters.
Plundering houses, cutting down cattle, sacking everything, making great hauls of booty, rifling
houses, then burning them, massacring male and female promiscuously--these, and not honest
dealings, were their occupations. Fridleif surprised them while on a reckless raid, and drove
them all back for refuge to the stronghold; he also seized the immensely powerful horse, whose
rider, in the haste of his panic, had left it on the hither side of the river in order to fly
betimes; for he durst not take it with him over the bridge. Then Fridleif proclaimed that he
would pay the weight of the dead body in gold to any man who slew one of those brothers. The
hope of the prize stimulated some of the champions of the king; and yet they were fired not
so much with covetousness as with valour; so, going secretly to Fridleif, they promised to
attempt the task, vowing to sacrifice their lives if they did not bring home the severed heads
of the robbers. Fridleif praised their valour and their vows, but bidding the onlookers wait,
went in the night to the river, satisfied with a single companion. For, not to seem better
provided with other men's valour than with his own, he determined to forestall their aid by
his own courage. Thereupon he crushed and killed his companion with a shower of flints, and
flung his bloodless corpse into the waves, having dressed it in his own clothes; which he stripped
off, borrowing the cast-off garb of the other, so that when the corpse was seen it might look
as if the king had perished. He further deliberately drew blood from the beast on which he
had ridden, and bespattered it, so that when it came back into camp he might make them think
he himself was dead. Then he set spur to his horse and drove it into the midst of the eddies,
crossed the river and alighted, and tried to climb over the rampart that screened the stronghold
by steps set up against the mound. When he got over the top and could grasp the battlements
with his hand, he quietly put his foot inside, and, without the knowledge of the watch, went
lightly on tiptoe to the house into which the bandits had gone to carouse. And when he had
reached its hall, he sat down under the porch overhanging the door. Now the strength of their
fastness made the warriors feel so safe that they were tempted to a debauch; for they thought
that the swiftly rushing river made their garrison inaccessible, since it seemed impossible
either to swim over or to cross in boats. For no part of the river allowed of fording.

Biorn, moved by the revel, said that in his sleep he had seen a beast come out of the waters,
which spouted ghastly fire from its mouth, enveloping everything in a sheet of flame. Therefore
the holes and corners of the island should, he said, be searched; nor ought they to trust so
much to their position, as rashly to let overweening confidence bring them to utter ruin. No
situation was so strong that the mere protection of nature was enough for it without human
effort. Moreover they must take great care that the warning of his slumbers was not followed
by a yet more gloomy and disastrous fulfilment. So they all sallied forth from the stronghold,
and narrowly scanned the whole circuit of the island; and finding the horse they surmised that
Fridleif had been drowned in the waters of the river. They received the horse within the gates
with rejoicing, supposing that it had flung off its rider and swum over. But Biorn, still scared
with the memory of the visions of the night, advised them to keep watch, since it was not safe
for them yet to put aside suspicion of danger. Then he went to his room to rest, with the memory
of his vision deeply stored in his heart.

Meanwhile the horse, which Fridleif, in order to spread a belief in his death, had been loosed
and besprinkled with blood (though only with that which lies between flesh and skin), burst
all bedabbled into the camp of his soldiers. They went straight to the river, and finding the
carcase of the slave, took it for the body of the king; the hissing eddies having cast it on
the bank, dressed in brave attire. Nothing helped their mistake so much as the swelling of
the battered body; inasmuch as the skin was torn and bruised with the flints, so that all the
features were blotted out, bloodless and wan. This exasperated the champions who had just promised
Fridleif to see that the robbers were extirpated: and they approached the perilous torrent,
that they might not seem to tarnish the honour of their promise by a craven neglect of their
vow. The rest imitated their boldness, and with equal ardour went to the river, ready to avenge
their king or to endure the worst. When Fridleif saw them he hastened to lower the bridge to
the mainland; and when he had got the champions he cut down the watch at the first attack.
Thus he went on to attack the rest and put them to the sword, all save Biorn; whom he tended
very carefully and cured of his wounds; whereupon, under pledge of solemn oath, he made him
his colleague, thinking it better to use his services than to boast of his death. He also declared
it would be shameful if such a flower of bravery were plucked in his first youth and perished
by an untimely death.

Now the Danes had long ago had false tidings of Fridleif's death, and when they found that
he was approaching, they sent men to fetch him, and ordered Hiarn to quit the sovereignty,
because he was thought to be holding it only on sufferance and carelessly. But he could not
bring himself to resign such an honour, and chose sooner to spend his life for glory than pass
into the dim lot of common men. Therefore he resolved to fight for his present estate, that
he might not have to resume his former one stripped of his royal honours. Thus the land was
estranged and vexed with the hasty commotion of civil strife; some were of Hiarn's party, while
others agreed to the claims of Fridleif, because of the vast services of Frode; and the voice
of the commons was perplexed and divided, some of them respecting things as they were, others
the memory of the past. But regard for the memory of Frode weighed most, and its sweetness
gave Fridleif the balance of popularity.

Many wise men thought that a person of peasant rank should be removed from the sovereignty;
since, contrary to the rights of birth, and only by the favour of fortune, he had reached an
unhoped-for eminence; and in order that the unlawful occupant might not debar the rightful
heir to the office, Fridleif told the envoys of the Danes to return, and request Hiarn either
to resign the kingdom or to meet him in battle. Hiarn thought it more grievous than death to
set lust of life before honour, and to seek safety at the cost of glory. So he met Fridleif
in the field, was crushed, and fled into Jutland, where, rallying a band, he again attacked
his conqueror. But his men were all consumed with the sword, and he fled unattended, as the
island testifies which has taken its name from his (Hiarno). And so, feeling his lowly fortune,
and seeing himself almost stripped of his forces by the double defeat, he turned his mind to
craft, and went to Fridleif with his face disguised, meaning to become intimate, and find an
occasion to slay him treacherously.

Hiarn was received by the king, hiding his purpose under the pretence of servitude. For, giving
himself out as a salt-distiller, he performed base offices among the servants who did the filthiest
work. He used also to take the last place at meal-time, and he refrained from the baths, lest
his multitude of scars should betray him if he stripped. The king, in order to ease his own
suspicions, made him wash; and when he knew his enemy by the scars, he said: "Tell me now,
thou shameless bandit, how wouldst thou have dealt with me, if thou hadst found out plainly
that I wished to murder thee?" Hiarn, stupefied, said: "Had I caught thee I would have first
challenged thee, and then fought thee, to give thee a better chance of wiping out thy reproach."
Fridleif presently took him at his word, challenged him and slew him, and buried his body in
a barrow that bears the dead man's name.

Soon after FRIDLEIF was admonished by his people to think about marrying, that he might prolong
his line; but he maintained that the unmarried life was best, quoting his father Frode, on
whom his wife's wantonness had brought great dishonour. At last, yielding to the persistent
entreaties of all, he proceeded to send ambassadors to ask for the daughter of Amund, King
of Norway. One of these, named Frok, was swallowed by the waves in mid-voyage, and showed a
strange portent at his death. For when the closing flood of billows encompassed him, blood
arose in the midst of the eddy, and the whole face of the sea was steeped with an alien redness,
so that the ocean, which a moment before was foaming and white with tempest, was presently
swollen with crimson waves, and was seen to wear a colour foreign to its nature.

Around implacably declined to consent to the wishes of the king, and treated the legates shamefully,
declaring that he spurned the embassy because the tyranny of Frode had of old borne so heavily
upon Norway. But Amund's daughter, Frogertha, not only looking to the birth of Fridleif, but
also honouring the glory of his deeds, began to upbraid her father, because he scorned a son-in-law
whose nobility was perfect, being both sufficient in valour and flawless in birth. She added
that the portentous aspect of the sea, when the waves were suddenly turned into blood, simply
and solely signified the defeat of Norway, and was a plain presage of the victory of Denmark.
And when Fridleif sent a further embassy to ask for her, wishing to vanquish the refusal by
persistency, Amund was indignant that a petition he had once denied should be obstinately pressed,
and hurried the envoys to death, wishing to offer a brutal check to the zeal of this brazen
wooer. Fridleif heard news of this outrage, and summoning Halfdan and Biorn, sailed round Norway.
Amund, equipped with his native defences, put out his fleet against him. The firth into which
both fleets had mustered is called Frokasund. Here Fridleif left the camp at night to reconnoitre;
and, hearing an unusual kind of sound close to him as of brass being beaten, he stood still
and looked up, and heard the following song of three swans, who were crying above him:

"While Hythin sweeps the sea and cleaves the ravening tide, his serf drinks out of gold and
licks the cups of milk. Best is the estate of the slave on whom waits the heir, the king's
son, for their lots are rashly interchanged." Next, after the birds had sung, a belt fell from
on high, which showed writing to interpret the song. For while the son of Hythin, the King
of Tellemark, was at his boyish play, a giant, assuming the usual appearance of men, had carried
him off, and using him as an oarsman (having taken his skiff over to the neighbouring shore),
was then sailing past Fridleif while he was occupied reconnoitering. But the king would not
suffer him to use the service of the captive youth, and longed to rob the spoiler of his prey.
The youth warned him that he must first use sharp reviling against the giant, promising that
he would prove easy to attack, if only he were assailed with biting verse. Then Fridleif began
thus:

"Since thou art a giant of three bodies, invincible, and almost reachest heaven with thy crest,
why does this silly sword bind thy thigh? Why doth a broken spear gird thy huge side? Why,
perchance, dost thou defend thy stalwart breast with a feeble sword, and forget the likeness
of thy bodily stature, trusting in a short dagger, a petty weapon? Soon, soon will I balk thy
bold onset, when with blunted blade thou attemptest war. Since thou art thyself a timid beast,
a lump lacking proper pith, thou art swept headlong like a flying shadow, having with a fair
and famous body got a heart that is unwarlike and unstable with fear, and a spirit quite unmatched
to thy limbs. Hence thy frame totters, for thy goodly presence is faulty through the overthrow
of thy soul, and thy nature in all her parts is at strife. Hence shall all tribute of praise
quit thee, nor shalt thou be accounted famous among the brave, but shalt be reckoned among
ranks obscure."

When he had said this he lopped off a hand and foot of the giant, made him fly, and set his
prisoner free. Then he went straightway to the giant's headland, took the treasure out of his
cave, and carried it away. Rejoicing in these trophies, and employing the kidnapped youth to
row him over the sea, he composed with cheery voice the following strain:

"In the slaying of the swift monster we wielded our blood-stained swords and our crimsoned
blade, whilst thou, Amund, lord of the Norwegian ruin, wert in deep slumber; and since blind
night covers thee, without any light of soul, thy valour has melted away and beguiled thee.
But we crushed a giant who lost use of his limbs and wealth, and we pierced into the disorder
of his dreary den. There we seized and plundered his piles of gold. And now with oars we sweep
the wave-wandering main, and joyously return, rowing back to the shore our booty-laden ship;
we fleet over the waves in a skiff that travels the sea; gaily let us furrow those open waters,
lest the dawn come and betray us to the foe. Lightly therefore, and pulling our hardest, let
us scour the sea, making for our camp and fleet ere Titan raise his rosy head out of the clear
waters; that when fame noises the deed about, and Frogertha knows that the spoil has been won
with a gallant struggle, her heart may be stirred to be more gentle to our prayer."

On the morrow there was a great muster of the forces, and Fridleif had a bloody battle with
Amund, fought partly by sea and partly by land. For not only were the lines drawn up in the
open country, but the warriors also made an attack with their fleet. The battle which followed
cost much blood. So Biorn, when his ranks gave back, unloosed his hound and sent it against
the enemy; wishing to win with the biting of a dog the victory which he could not achieve with
the sword. The enemy were by this means shamefully routed, for a square of the warriors ran
away when attacked with its teeth.

There is no saying whether their flight was more dismal or more disgraceful. Indeed, the army
of the Northmen was a thing to blush for; for an enemy crushed it by borrowing the aid of a
brute. Nor was it treacherous of Fridleif to recruit the failing valour of his men with the
aid of a dog. In this war Amund fell; and his servant Ane, surnamed the Archer, challenged
Fridleif to fight him; but Biorn, being a man of meaner estate, not suffering the king to engage
with a common fellow, attacked him himself. And when Biorn had bent his bow and was fitting
the arrow to the string, suddenly a dart sent by Ane pierced the top of the cord. Soon another
arrow came after it and struck amid the joints of his fingers. A third followed, and fell on
the arrow as it was laid to the string. For Ane, who was most dexterous at shooting arrows
from a distance, had purposely only struck the weapon of his opponent, in order that, by showing
it was in his power to do likewise to his person, he might recall the champion from his purpose.
But Biorn abated none of his valour for this, and, scorning bodily danger, entered the fray
with heart and face so steadfast, that he seemed neither to yield anything to the skill of
Ane, nor lay aside aught of his wonted courage. Thus he would in nowise be made to swerve from
his purpose, and dauntlessly ventured on the battle. Both of them left it wounded; and fought
another also on Agdar Ness with an emulous thirst for glory.

By the death of Amund, Fridleif was freed from a most bitter foe, and obtained a deep and tranquil
peace; whereupon he forced his savage temper to the service of delight; and, transferring his
ardour to love, equipped a fleet in order to seek the marriage which had once been denied him.
At last he set forth on his voyage; and his fleet being becalmed, he invaded some villages
to look for food; where, being received hospitably by a certain Grubb, and at last winning
his daughter in marriage, he begat a son named Olaf. After some time had passed he also won
Frogertha; but, while going back to his own country, he had a bad voyage, and was driven on
the shores of an unknown island. A certain man appeared to him in a vision, and instructed
him to dig up a treasure that was buried in the ground, and also to attack the dragon that
guarded it, covering himself in an ox-hide to escape the poison; teaching him also to meet
the envenomed fangs with a hide stretched over his shield. Therefore, to test the vision, he
attacked the snake as it rose out of the waves, and for a long time cast spears against its
scaly side; in vain, for its hard and shelly body foiled the darts flung at it. But the snake,
shaking its mass of coils, uprooted the trees which it brushed past by winding its tail about
them. Moreover, by constantly dragging its body, it hollowed the ground down to the solid rock,
and had made a sheer bank on either hand, just as in some places we see hills parted by an
intervening valley. So Fridleif, seeing that the upper part of the creature was proof against
attack, assailed the lower side with his sword, and piercing the groin, drew blood from the
quivering beast. When it was dead, he unearthed the money from the underground chamber and
had it taken off in his ships.

When the year had come to an end, he took great pains to reconcile Biorn and Ane, who had often
challenged and fought one another, and made them exchange their hatred for friendship; and
even entrusted to them his three-year-old son, Olaf, to rear. But his mistress, Juritha, the
mother of Olaf, he gave in marriage to Ane, whom he made one of his warriors; thinking that
she would endure more calmly to be put away, if she wedded such a champion, and received his
robust embrace instead of a king's.

The ancients were wont to consult the oracles of the Fates concerning the destinies of their
children. In this way Fridleif desired to search into the fate of his son Olaf; and, after
solemnly offering up his vows, he went to the house of the gods in entreaty; where, looking
into the chapel, he saw three maidens, sitting on three seats. The first of them was of a benignant
temper, and bestowed upon the boy abundant beauty and ample store of favour in the eyes of
men. The second granted him the gift of surpassing generosity. But the third, a woman of more
mischievous temper and malignant disposition, scorning the unanimous kindness of her sisters,
and likewise wishing to mar their gifts, marked the future character of the boy with the slur
of niggardliness. Thus the benefits of the others were spoilt by the poison of a lamentable
doom; and hence, by virtue of the twofold nature of these gifts Olaf got his surname from the
meanness which was mingled with his bounty. So it came about that this blemish which found
its way into the gift marred the whole sweetness of its first benignity.

When Fridleif had returned from Norway, and was traveling through Sweden, he took on himself
to act as ambassador, and sued successfully for Hythin's daughter, whom he had once rescued
from a monster, to be the wife of Halfdan, he being still unwedded. Meantime his wife Frogertha
bore a son FRODE, who afterwards got his surname from his noble munificence. And thus Frode,
because of the memory of his grandsire's prosperity, which he recalled by his name, became
from his very cradle and earliest childhood such a darling of all men, that he was not suffered
even to step or stand on the ground, but was continually cherished in people's laps and kissed.
Thus he was not assigned to one upbringer only, but was in a manner everybody's fosterling.
And, after his father's death, while he was in his twelfth year, Swerting and Hanef, the kings
of Saxony, disowned his sway, and tried to rebel openly. He overcame them in battle, and imposed
on the conquered peoples a poll-tax of a coin, which they were to pay as his slaves. For he
showed himself so generous that he doubled the ancient pay of the soldiers: a fashion of bounty
which then was novel. For he did not, as despots do, expose himself to the vulgar allurements
of vice, but strove to covet ardently whatsoever he saw was nearest honour; to make his wealth
public property; to surpass all other men in bounty, to forestall them all in offices of kindness;
and, hardest of all, to conquer envy by virtue. By this means the youth soon won such favour
with all men, that he not only equalled in renown the honours of his forefathers, but surpassed
the most ancient records of kings.

At the same time one Starkad, the son of Storwerk, escaped alone, either by force or fortune,
from a wreck in which his friends perished, and was received by Frode as his guest for his
incredible excellence both of mind and body. And, after being for some little time his comrade,
he was dressed in a better and more comely fashion every day, and was at last given a noble
vessel, and bidden to ply the calling of a rover, with the charge of guarding the sea. For
nature had gifted him with a body of superhuman excellence; and his greatness of spirit equalled
it, so that folk thought him behind no man in valour. So far did his glory spread, that the
renown of his name and deeds continues famous even yet. He shone out among our own countrymen
by his glorious roll of exploits, and he had also won a most splendid record among all the
provinces of the Swedes and Saxons. Tradition says that he was born originally in the country
which borders Sweden on the east, where barbarous hordes of Esthonians and other nations now
dwell far and wide. But a fabulous yet common rumour has invented tales about his birth which
are contrary to reason and flatly incredible. For some relate that he was sprung from giants,
and betrayed his monstrous birth by an extraordinary number of hands, four of which, engendered
by the superfluity of his nature, they declare that the god Thor tore off, shattering the framework
of the sinews and wrenching from his whole body the monstrous bunches of fingers; so that he
had but two left, and that his body, which had before swollen to the size of a giant's, and,
by reason of its shapeless crowd of limbs looked gigantic, was thenceforth chastened to a better
appearance, and kept within the bounds of human shortness.

For there were of old certain men versed in sorcery, Thor, namely, and Odin, and many others,
who were cunning in contriving marvellous sleights; and they, winning the minds of the simple,
began to claim the rank of gods. For, in particular, they ensnared Norway, Sweden and Denmark
in the vainest credulity, and by prompting these lands to worship them, infected them with
their imposture. The effects of their deceit spread so far, that all other men adored a sort
of divine power in them, and, thinking them either gods or in league with gods, offered up
solemn prayers to these inventors of sorceries, and gave to blasphemous error the honour due
to religion. Hence it has come about that the holy days, in their regular course, are called
among us by the names of these men; for the ancient Latins are known to have named these days
severally, either after the titles of their own gods, or after the planets, seven in number.
But it can be plainly inferred from the mere names of the holy days that the objects worshipped
by our countrymen were not the same as those whom the most ancient of the Romans called Jove
and Mercury, nor those to whom Greece and Latium paid idolatrous homage. For the days, called
among our countrymen Thors-day or Odins-day, the ancients termed severally the holy day of
Jove or of Mercury. If, therefore, according to the distinction implied in the interpretation
I have quoted, we take it that Thor is Jove and Odin Mercury, it follows that Jove was the
son of Mercury; that is, if the assertion of our countrymen holds, among whom it is told as
a matter of common belief, that Thor was Odin's son. Therefore, when the Latins, believing
to the contrary effect, declare that Mercury was sprung from Jove, then, if their declaration
is to stand, we are driven to consider that Thor was not the same as Jove, and that Odin was
also different from Mercury. Some say that the gods, whom our countrymen worshipped, shared
only the title with those honoured by Greece or Latium, but that, being in a manner nearly
equal to them in dignity, they borrowed from them the worship as well as the name. This must
be sufficient discourse upon the deities of Danish antiquity. I have expounded this briefly
for the general profit, that my readers may know clearly to what worship in its heathen superstition
our country has bowed the knee. Now I will go back to my subject where I left it.

Ancient tradition says that Starkad, whom I mentioned above, offered the first-fruits of his
deeds to the favour of the gods by slaying Wikar, the king of the Norwegians. The affair, according
to the version of some people, happened as follows:--

Odin once wished to slay Wikar by a grievous death; but, loth to do the deed openly, he graced
Starkad, who was already remarkable for his extraordinary size, not only with bravery, but
also with skill in the composing of spells, that he might the more readily use his services
to accomplish the destruction of the king. For that was how he hoped that Starkad would show
himself grateful for the honour he paid him. For the same reason he also endowed him with three
spans of mortal life, that he might be able to commit in them as many abominable deeds. So
Odin resolved that Starkad's days should be prolonged by the following crime: Starkad presently
went to Wikar and dwelt awhile in his company, hiding treachery under homage. At last he went
with him sea-roving. And in a certain place they were troubled with prolonged and bitter storms;
and when the winds checked their voyage so much that they had to lie still most of the year,
they thought that the gods must be appeased with human blood. When the lots were cast into
the urn it so fell that the king was required for death as a victim. Then Starkad made a noose
of withies and bound the king in it; saying that for a brief instant he should pay the mere
semblance of a penalty. But the tightness of the knot acted according to its nature, and cut
off his last breath as he hung. And while he was still quivering Starkad rent away with his
steel the remnant of his life; thus disclosing his treachery when he ought to have brought
aid. I do not think that I need examine the version which relates that the pliant withies,
hardened with the sudden grip, acted like a noose of iron.

When Starkad had thus treacherously acted he took Wikar's ship and went to one Bemon, the most
courageous of all the rovers of Denmark, in order to take up the life of a pirate. For Bemon's
partner, named Frakk, weary of the toil of sea-roving, had lately withdrawn from partnership
with him, after first making a money-bargain. Now Starkad and Bemon were so careful to keep
temperate, that they are said never to have indulged in intoxicating drink, for fear that continence,
the greatest bond of bravery, might be expelled by the power of wantonness. So when, after
overthrowing provinces far and wide, they invaded Russia also in their lust for empire, the
natives, trusting little in their walls or arms, began to bar the advance of the enemy with
nails of uncommon sharpness, that they might check their inroad, though they could not curb
their onset in battle; and that the ground might secretly wound the soles of the men whom their
army shrank from confronting in the field. But not even such a barrier could serve to keep
off the foe. The Danes were cunning enough to foil the pains of the Russians. For they straightway
shod themselves with wooden clogs, and trod with unhurt steps upon the points that lay beneath
their soles. Now this iron thing is divided into four spikes, which are so arranged that on
whatsoever side chance may cast it, it stands steadily on three equal feet. Then they struck
into the pathless glades, where the woods were thickets, and expelled Flokk, the chief of the
Russians, from the mountain hiding-places into which he had crept. And here they got so much
booty, that there was not one of them but went back to the fleet laden with gold and silver.

Now when Bemon was dead, Starkad was summoned because of his valour by the champions of Permland.
And when he had done many noteworthy deeds among them, he went into the land of the Swedes,
where he lived at leisure for seven years' space with the sons of Frey. At last he left them
and betook himself to Hakon, the tyrant of Denmark, because when stationed at Upsala, at the
time of the sacrifices, he was disgusted by the effeminate gestures and the clapping of the
mimes on the stage, and by the unmanly clatter of the bells. Hence it is clear how far he kept
his soul from lasciviousness, not even enduring to look upon it. Thus does virtue withstand
wantonness.

Starkad took his fleet to the shore of Ireland with Hakon, in order that even the furthest
kingdoms of the world might not be untouched by the Danish arms. The king of the island at
this time was Hugleik, who, though he had a well-filled treasury, was yet so prone to avarice,
that once, when he gave a pair of shoes which had been adorned by the hand of a careful craftsman,
he took off the ties, and by thus removing the latches turned his present into a slight. This
unhandsome act blemished his gift so much that he seemed to reap hatred for it instead of thanks.
Thus he used never to be generous to any respectable man, but to spend all his bounty upon
mimes and jugglers. For so base a fellow was bound to keep friendly company with the base,
and such a slough of vices to wheedle his partners in sin with pandering endearments.

Still Hugleik had the friendship of Geigad and Swipdag, nobles of tried valour, who, by the
lustre of their warlike deeds, shone out among their unmanly companions like jewels embedded
in ordure; these alone were found to defend the riches of the king. When a battle began between
Hugleik and Hakon, the hordes of mimes, whose light-mindedness unsteadied their bodies, broke
their ranks and scurried off in panic; and this shameful flight was their sole requital for
all their king's benefits. Then Geigad and Swipdag faced all those thousands of the enemy single-handed,
and fought with such incredible courage, that they seemed to do the part not merely of two
warriors, but of a whole army. Geigad, moreover, dealt Hakon, who pressed him hard, such a
wound in the breast that he exposed the upper part of his liver. It was here that Starkad,
while he was attacking Geigad with his sword, received a very sore wound on the head; wherefore
he afterwards related in a certain song that a ghastlier wound had never befallen him at any
time; for, though the divisions of his gashed head were bound up by the surrounding outer skin,
yet the livid unseen wound concealed a foul gangrene below.

Starkad conquered, killed Hugleik and routed the Irish; and had the actors beaten whom chance
made prisoner; thinking it better to order a pack of buffoons to be ludicrously punished by
the loss of their skins than to command a more deadly punishment and take their lives. Thus
he visited with a disgraceful chastisement the baseborn throng of professional jugglers, and
was content to punish them with the disgusting flouts of the lash. Then the Danes ordered that
the wealth of the king should be brought out of the treasury in the city of Dublin and publicly
pillaged. For so vast a treasure had been found that none took much pains to divide it strictly.

After this, Starkad was commissioned, together with Win, the chief of the Sclavs, to check
the revolt of the East. They, having fought against the armies of the Kurlanders, the Sembs,
the Sangals, and, finally, all the Easterlings, won splendid victories everywhere.

A champion of great repute, named Wisin, settled upon a rock in Russia named Ana-fial, and
harried both neighbouring and distant provinces with all kinds of outrage. This man used to
blunt the edge of every weapon by merely looking at it. He was made so bold in consequence,
by having lost all fear of wounds, that he used to carry off the wives of distinguished men
and drag them to outrage before the eyes of their husbands. Starkad was roused by the tale
of this villainy, and went to Russia to destroy the criminal; thinking nothing too hard to
overcome, he challenged Wisin, attacked him, made even his tricks useless to him, and slew
him. For Starkad covered his blade with a very fine skin, that it might not met the eye of
the sorcerer; and neither the power of his sleights nor his great strength were any help to
Wisin, for he had to yield to Starkad. Then Starkad, trusting in his bodily strength, fought
with and overcame a giant at Byzantium, reputed invincible, named Tanne, and drove him to fly
an outlaw to unknown quarters of the earth. Therefore, finding that he was too mighty for any
hard fate to overcome him, he went to the country of Poland, and conquered in a duel a champion
whom our countrymen name Wasce; but the Teutons, arranging the letters differently, call him
Wilzce.

Meanwhile the Saxons began to attempt a revolt, and to consider particularly how they could
destroy Frode, who was unconquered in war, by some other way than an open conflict. Thinking
that it would be best done by a duel, they sent men to provoke the king with a challenge, knowing
that he was always ready to court any hazard, and that his high spirit would not yield to any
admonition whatever. They fancied that this was the best time to attack him, because they knew
that Starkad, whose valour most men dreaded, was away on business. But while Frode hesitated,
and said that he would talk with his friends about the answer to be given, Starkad, who had
just returned from his sea-roving, appeared, and blamed such a challenge, principally (he said)
because it was fitting for kings to fight only with their equals, and because they should not
take up arms against men of the people; but it was more fitting for himself, who was born in
a lowlier station, to manage the battle.

The Saxons approached Hame, who was accounted their most famous champion, with many offers,
and promised him that, if he would lend his services for the duel they would pay him his own
weight in gold. The fighter was tempted by the money, and, with all the ovation of a military
procession, they attended him to the ground appointed for the combat. Thereupon the Danes,
decked in warlike array, led Starkad, who was to represent his king, out to the duelling-ground.
Hame, in his youthful assurance, despised him as withered with age, and chose to grapple rather
than fight with an outworn old man. Attacking Starkad, he would have flung him tottering to
the earth, but that fortune, who would not suffer the old man to be conquered, prevented him
from being hurt. For he is said to have been so crushed by the fist of Hame, as he dashed on
him, that he touched the earth with his chin, supporting himself on his knees. But he made
up nobly for his tottering; for, as soon as he could raise his knee and free his hand to draw
his sword, he clove Hame through the middle of the body. Many lands and sixty bondmen apiece
were the reward of the victory.

After Hame was killed in this manner the sway of the Danes over the Saxons grew so insolent,
that they were forced to pay every year a small tax for each of their limbs that was a cubit
(ell) long, in token of their slavery. This Hanef could not bear, and he meditated war in his
desire to remove the tribute. Steadfast love of his country filled his heart every day with
greater compassion for the oppressed; and, longing to spend his life for the freedom of his
countrymen, he openly showed a disposition to rebel. Frode took his forces over the Elbe, and
killed him near the village of Hanofra (Hanover), so named after Hanef. But Swerting, though
he was equally moved by the distress of his countrymen, said nothing about the ills of his
land, and revolved a plan for freedom with a spirit yet more dogged than Hanef's. Men often
doubt whether this zeal was liker to vice or to virtue; but I certainly censure it as criminal,
because it was produced by a treacherous desire to revolt. It may have seemed most expedient
to seek the freedom of the country, but it was not lawful to strive after this freedom by craft
and treachery. Therefore, since the deed of Swerting was far from honourable, neither will
it be called expedient; for it is nobler to attack openly him whom you mean to attack, and
to exhibit hatred in the light of day, than to disguise a real wish to do harm under a spurious
show of friendship. But the gains of crime are inglorious, its fruits are brief and fading.
For even as that soul is slippery, which hides its insolent treachery by stealthy arts, so
is it right that whatsoever is akin to guilt should be frail and fleeting. For guilt has been
usually found to come home to its author; and rumour relates that such was the fate of Swerting.
For he had resolved to surprise the king under the pretence of a banquet, and burn him to death;
but the king forestalled and slew him, though slain by him in return. Hence the crime of one
proved the destruction of both; and thus, though the trick succeeded against the foe, it did
not bestow immunity on its author.

Frode was succeeded by his son Ingild, whose soul was perverted from honour. He forsook the
examples of his forefathers, and utterly enthralled himself to the lures of the most wanton
profligacy. Thus he had not a shadow of goodness and righteousness, but embraced vices instead
of virtue; he cut the sinews of self-control, neglected the duties of his kingly station, and
sank into a filthy slave of riot. Indeed, he fostered everything that was adverse or ill-fitted
to an orderly life. He tainted the glories of his father and grandfather by practising the
foulest lusts, and bedimmed the brightest honours of his ancestors by most shameful deeds.
For he was so prone to gluttony, that he had no desire to avenge his father, or repel the aggressions
of his foes; and so, could he but gratify his gullet, he thought that decency and self-control
need be observed in nothing. By idleness and sloth he stained his glorious lineage, living
a loose and sensual life; and his soul, so degenerate, so far perverted and astray from the
steps of his fathers, he loved to plunge into most abominable gulfs of foulness. Fowl-fatteners,
scullions, frying-pans, countless cook-houses, different cooks to roast or spice the banquet--the
choosing of these stood to him for glory. As to arms, soldiering, and wars, he could endure
neither to train himself to them, nor to let others practise them. Thus he cast away all the
ambitions of a man and aspired to those of women; for his incontinent itching of palate stirred
in him love of every kitchen-stench. Ever breathing of his debauch, and stripped of every rag
of soberness, with his foul breath he belched the undigested filth in his belly. He was as
infamous in wantonness as Frode was illustrious in war. So utterly had his spirit been enfeebled
by the untimely seductions of gluttony. Starkad was so disgusted at the excess of Ingild, that
he forsook his friendship, and sought the fellowship of Halfdan, the King of Swedes, preferring
work to idleness. Thus he could not bear so much as to countenance excessive indulgence. Now
the sons of Swerting, fearing that they would have to pay to Ingild the penalty of their father's
crime, were fain to forestall his vengeance by a gift, and gave him their sister in marriage.
Antiquity relates that she bore him sons, Frode, Fridleif, Ingild, and Olaf (whom some say
was the son of Ingild's sister).

Ingild's sister Helga had been led by amorous wooing to return the flame of a certain low-born
goldsmith, who was apt for soft words, and furnished with divers of the little gifts which
best charm a woman's wishes. For since the death of the king there had been none to honour
the virtues of the father by attention to the child; she had lacked protection, and had no
guardians. When Starkad had learnt this from the repeated tales of travellers, he could not
bear to let the wantonness of the smith pass unpunished. For he was always heedful to bear
kindness in mind, and as ready to punish arrogance. So he hastened to chastise such bold and
enormous insolence, wishing to repay the orphan ward the benefits he had of old received from
Frode. Then he travelled through Sweden, went into the house of the smith, and posted himself
near the threshold muffling his face in a cap to avoid discovery. The smith, who had not learnt
the lesson that "strong hands are sometimes found under a mean garment", reviled him, and bade
him quickly leave the house, saying that he should have the last broken victuals among the
crowd of paupers. But the old man, whose ingrained self-control lent him patience, was nevertheless
fain to rest there, and gradually study the wantonness of his host. For his reason was stronger
than his impetuosity, and curbed his increasing rage. Then the smith approached the girl with
open shamelessness, and cast himself in her lap, offering the hair of his head to be combed
out by her maidenly hands.

Also he thrust forward his loin cloth, and required her help in picking out the fleas; and
exacted from this woman of lordly lineage that she should not blush to put her sweet fingers
in a foul apron. Then, believing that he was free to have his pleasure, he ventured to put
his longing palms within her gown and to set his unsteady hands close to her breast. But she,
looking narrowly, was aware of the presence of the old man whom she once had known, and felt
ashamed. She spurned the wanton and libidinous fingering, and repulsed the unchaste hands,
telling the man also that he had need of arms, and urging him to cease his lewd sport.

Starkad, who had sat down by the door, with the hat muffling his head, had already become so
deeply enraged at this sight, that he could not find patience to hold his hand any longer,
but put away his covering and clapped his right hand to his sword to draw it. Then the smith,
whose only skill was in lewdness, faltered with sudden alarm, and finding that it had come
to fighting, gave up all hope of defending himself, and saw in flight the only remedy for his
need. Thus it was as hard to break out of the door, of which the enemy held the approach, as
it was grievous to await the smiter within the house. At last necessity forced him to put an
end to his delay, and he judged that a hazard wherein there lay but the smallest chance of
safety was more desirable than sure and manifest danger. Also, hard as it was to fly, the danger
being so close, yet he desired flight because it seemed to bring him aid, and to be the nearer
way to safety; and he cast aside delay, which seemed to be an evil bringing not the smallest
help, but perhaps irretrievable ruin. But just as he gained the threshold, the old man watching
at the door smote him through the hams, and there, half dead, he tottered and fell. For the
smiter thought he ought carefully to avoid lending his illustrious hands to the death of a
vile cinder-blower, and considered that ignominy would punish his shameless passion worse than
death. Thus some men think that he who suffers misfortune is worse punished than he who is
slain outright. Thus it was brought about, that the maiden, who had never had parents to tend
her, came to behave like a woman of well-trained nature, and did the part, as it were, of a
zealous guardian to herself. And when Starkad, looking round, saw that the household sorrowed
over the late loss of their master, he heaped shame on the wounded man with more invective,
and thus began to mock:

"Why is the house silent and aghast? What makes this new grief? Or where now rest that doting
husband whom the steel has just punished for his shameful love? Keeps he still aught of his
pride and lazy wantonness? Holds he to his quest, glows his lust as hot as before? Let him
while away an hour with me in converse, and allay with friendly words my hatred of yesterday.
Let your visage come forth with better cheer; let not lamentation resound in the house, or
suffer the faces to become dulled with sorrow.

"Wishing to know who burned with love for the maiden, and was deeply enamoured of my beloved
ward, I put on a cap, lest my familiar face might betray me. Then comes in that wanton smith,
with lewd steps, bending his thighs this way and that with studied gesture, and likewise making
eyes as he ducked all ways. His covering was a mantle fringed with beaver, his sandals were
inlaid with gems, his cloak was decked with gold. Gorgeous ribbons bound his plaited hair,
and a many-coloured band drew tight his straying locks. Hence grew a sluggish and puffed-up
temper; he fancied that wealth was birth, and money forefathers, and reckoned his fortune more
by riches than by blood. Hence came pride unto him, and arrogance led to fine attire. For the
wretch began to think that his dress made him equal to the high-born; he, the cinder-blower,
who hunts the winds with hides, and puffs with constant draught, who rakes the ashes with his
fingers, and often by drawing back the bellows takes in the air, and with a little fan makes
a breath and kindles the smouldering fires! Then he goes to the lap of the girl, and leaning
close, says, `Maiden, comb my hair and catch the skipping fleas, and remove what stings my
skin.' Then he sat and spread his arms that sweated under the gold, lolling on the smooth cushion
and leaning back on his elbow, wishing to flaunt his adornment, just as a barking brute unfolds
the gathered coils of its twisted tail. But she knew me, and began to check her lover and rebuff
his wanton hands; and, declaring that it was I, she said, `Refrain thy fingers, check thy promptings,
take heed to appease the old man sitting close by the doors. The sport will turn to sorrow.
I think Starkad is here, and his slow gaze scans thy doings.' The smith answered: `Turn not
pale at the peaceful raven and the ragged old man; never has that mighty one whom thou fearest
stooped to such common and base attire. The strong man loves shining raiment, and looks for
clothes to match his courage.' Then I uncovered and drew my sword, and as the smith fled I
clove his privy parts; his hams were laid open, cut away from the bone; they showed his entrails.
Presently I rise and crush the girl's mouth with my fist, and draw blood from her bruised nostril.
Then her lips, used to evil laughter, were wet with tears mingled with blood, and foolish love
paid for all the sins it committed with soft eyes. Over is the sport of the hapless woman who
rushed on, blind with desire, like a maddened mare, and makes her lust the grave of her beauty.
Thou deservest to be sold for a price to foreign peoples and to grind at the mill, unless blood
pressed from thy breasts prove thee falsely accused, and thy nipple's lack of milk clear thee
of the crime. Howbeit, I think thee free from this fault; yet bear not tokens of suspicion,
nor lay thyself open to lying tongues, nor give thyself to the chattering populace to gird
at. Rumour hurts many, and a lying slander often harms. A little word deceives the thoughts
of common men. Respect thy grandsires, honour thy fathers, forget not thy parents, value thy
forefathers; let thy flesh and blood keep its fame. What madness came on thee? And thou, shameless
smith, what fate drove thee in thy lust to attempt a high-born race? Or who sped thee, maiden,
worthy of the lordliest pillows, to loves obscure? Tell me, how durst thou taste with thy rosy
lips a mouth reeking of ashes, or endure on thy breast hands filthy with charcoal, or bring
close to thy side the arms that turn the live coals over, and put the palms hardened with the
use of the tongs to thy pure cheeks, and embrace the head sprinkled with embers, taking it
to thy bright arms?

"I remember how smiths differ from one another, for once they smote me. All share alike the
name of their calling, but the hearts beneath are different in temper. I judge those best who
weld warriors' swords and spears for the battle, whose temper shows their courage, who betoken
their hearts by the sternness of their calling, whose work declares their prowess. There are
also some to whom the hollow mould yields bronze, as they make the likeness of divers things
in molten gold, who smelt the veins and recast the metal. But Nature has fashioned these of
a softer temper, and has crushed with cowardice the hands which she has gifted with rare skill.
Often such men, while the heat of the blast melts the bronze that is poured in the mould, craftily
filch flakes of gold from the lumps, when the vessel thirsts after the metal they have stolen."

So speaking, Starkad got as much pleasure from his words as from his works, and went back to
Halfdan, embracing his service with the closest friendship, and never ceasing from the exercise
of war; so that he weaned his mind from delights, and vexed it with incessant application to arms.

Now Ingild had two sisters, Helga and Asa; Helga was of full age to marry, while Asa was younger
and unripe for wedlock. Then Helge the Norwegian was moved with desire to ask for Helga for
his wife, and embarked. Now he had equipped his vessel so luxuriously that he had lordly sails
decked with gold, held up also on gilded masts, and tied with crimson ropes. When he arrived
Ingild promised to grant him his wish if, to test his reputation publicly, he would first venture
to meet in battle the champions pitted against him. Helge did not flinch at the terms; he answered
that he would most gladly abide by the compact. And so the troth-plight of the future marriage
was most ceremoniously solemnized.

A story is remembered that there had grown up at the same time, on the Isle of Zealand, the
nine sons of a certain prince, all highly gifted with strength and valour, the eldest of whom
was Anganty. This last was a rival suitor for the same maiden; and when he saw that the match
which he had been denied was promised to Helge, he challenged him to a struggle, wishing to
fight away his vexation. Helge agreed to the proposed combat. The hour of the fight was appointed
for the wedding-day by the common wish of both. For any man who, being challenged, refused
to fight, used to be covered with disgrace in the sight of all men. Thus Helge was tortured
on the one side by the shame of refusing the battle, on the other by the dread of waging it.
For he thought himself attacked unfairly and counter to the universal laws of combat, as he
had apparently undertaken to fight nine men single-handed. While he was thus reflecting his
betrothed told him that he would need help, and counselled him to refrain from the battle,
wherein it seemed he would encounter only death and disgrace, especially as he had not stipulated
for any definite limit to the number of those who were to be his opponents. He should therefore
avoid the peril, and consult his safety by appealing to Starkad, who was sojourning among the
Swedes; since it was his way to help the distressed, and often to interpose successfully to
retrieve some dismal mischance.

Then Helge, who liked the counsel thus given very well, took a small escort and went into Sweden;
and when he reached its most famous city, Upsala, he forbore to enter, but sent in a messenger
who was to invite Starkad to the wedding of Frode's daughter, after first greeting him respectfully
to try him. This courtesy stung Starkad like an insult. He looked sternly on the youth, and
said, "That had he not had his beloved Frode named in his instructions, he should have paid
dearly for his senseless mission. He must think that Starkad, like some buffoon or trencherman,
was accustomed to rush off to the reek of a distant kitchen for the sake of a richer diet."
Helge, when his servant had told him this, greeted the old man in the name of Frode's daughter,
and asked him to share a battle which he had accepted upon being challenged, saying that he
was not equal to it by himself, the terms of the agreement being such as to leave the number
of his adversaries uncertain. Starkad, when he had heard the time and place of the combat,
not only received the suppliant well, but also encouraged him with the offer of aid, and told
him to go back to Denmark with his companions, telling him that he would find his way to him
by a short and secret path. Helge departed, and if we may trust report, Starkad, by sheer speed
of foot, travelled in one day's journeying over as great a space as those who went before him
are said to have accomplished in twelve; so that both parties, by a chance meeting, reached
their journey's end, the palace of Ingild, at the very same time. Here Starkad passed, just
as the servants did, along the tables filled with guests; and the aforementioned nine, howling
horribly with repulsive gestures, and running about as if they were on the stage, encouraged
one another to the battle. Some say that they barked like furious dogs at the champion as he
approached. Starkad rebuked them for making themselves look ridiculous with such an unnatural
visage, and for clowning with wide grinning cheeks; for from this, he declared, soft and effeminate
profligates derived their wanton incontinence. When Starkad was asked banteringly by the nine
whether he had valour enough to fight, he answered that doubtless he was strong enough to meet,
not merely one, but any number that might come against him. And when the nine heard this they
understood that this was the man whom they had heard would come to the succour of Helge from
afar. Starkad also, to protect the bride-chamber with a more diligent guard, voluntarily took
charge of the watch; and, drawing back the doors of the bedroom, barred them with a sword instead
of a bolt, meaning to post himself so as to give undisturbed quiet to their bridal.

When Helge woke, and, shaking off the torpor of sleep, remembered his pledge, he thought of
buckling on his armour. But, seeing that a little of the darkness of night yet remained, and
wishing to wait for the hour of dawn, he began to ponder the perilous business at hand, when
sleep stole on him and sweetly seized him, so that he took himself back to bed laden with slumber.
Starkad, coming in on him at daybreak, saw him locked asleep in the arms of his wife, and would
not suffer him to be vexed with a sudden shock, or summoned from his quiet slumbers; lest he
should seem to usurp the duty of wakening him and breaking upon the sweetness of so new a union,
all because of cowardice. He thought it, therefore, more handsome to meet the peril alone than
to gain a comrade by disturbing the pleasure of another. So he quietly retraced his steps,
and scorning his enemies, entered the field which in our tongue is called Roliung, and finding
a seat under the slope of a certain hill, he exposed himself to wind and snow. Then, as though
the gentle airs of spring weather were breathing upon him, he put off his cloak, and set to
picking out the fleas. He also cast on the briars a purple mantle which Helga had lately given
him, that no clothing might seem to lend him shelter against the raging shafts of hail. Then
the champions came and climbed the hill on the opposite side; and, seeking a spot sheltered
from the winds wherein to sit, they lit a fire and drove off the cold. At last, not seeing
Starkad, they sent a man to the crest of the hill, to watch his coming more clearly, as from
a watch-tower. This man climbed to the top of the lofty mountain, and saw, on its sloping side,
an old man covered shoulder-high with the snow that showered down. He asked him if he was the
man who was to fight according to the promise. Starkad declared that he was. Then the rest
came up and asked him whether he had resolved to meet them all at once or one by one. But he
said, "Whenever a surly pack of curs yelps at me, I commonly send them flying all at once,
and not in turn." Thus he let them know that he would rather fight with-them all together than
one by one, thinking that his enemies should be spurned with words first and deeds afterwards.

The fight began furiously almost immediately, and he felled six of them without receiving any
wound in return; and though the remaining three wounded him so hard in seventeen places that
most of his bowels gushed out of his belly, he slew them notwithstanding, like their brethren.
Disembowelled, with failing strength, he suffered from dreadful straits of thirst, and, crawling
on his knees in his desire to find a draught, he longed for water from the streamlet that ran
close by. But when he saw it was tainted with gore he was disgusted at the look of the water,
and refrained from its infected draught. For Anganty had been struck down in the waves of the
river, and had dyed its course so deep with his red blood that it seemed now to flow not with
water, but with some ruddy liquid. So Starkad thought it nobler that his bodily strength should
fail than that he should borrow strength from so foul a beverage. Therefore, his force being
all but spent, he wriggled on his knees, up to a rock that happened to be lying near, and for
some little while lay leaning against it. A hollow in its surface is still to be seen, just
as if his weight as he lay had marked it with a distinct impression of his body. But I think
this appearance is due to human handiwork, for it seems to pass all belief that the hard and
uncleavable rock should so imitate the softness of wax, as, merely by the contact of a man
leaning on it, to present the appearance of a man having sat there, and assume concavity for ever.

A certain man, who chanced to be passing by in a cart, saw Starkad wounded almost all over
his body. Equally aghast and amazed, he turned and drove closer, asking what reward he should
have if he were to tend and heal his wounds. But Starkad would rather be tortured by grievous
wounds than use the service of a man of base estate, and first asked his birth and calling.
The man said that his profession was that of a sergeant. Starkad, not content with despising
him, also spurned him with revilings, because, neglecting all honourable business, he followed
the calling of a hanger-on; and because he had tarnished his whole career with ill repute,
thinking the losses of the poor his own gains; suffering none to be innocent, ready to inflict
wrongful accusation upon all men, most delighted at any lamentable turn in the fortunes of
another; and toiling most at his own design, namely of treacherously spying out all men's doings,
and seeking some traitorous occasion to censure the character of the innocent.

As this first man departed, another came up, promising aid and remedies. Like the last comer,
he was bidden to declare his condition; and he said that he had a certain man's handmaid to
wife, and was doing peasant service to her master in order to set her free. Starkad refused
to accept his help, because he had married in a shameful way by taking a slave to his embrace.
Had he had a shred of virtue he should at least have disdained to be intimate with the slave
of another, but should have enjoyed some freeborn partner of his bed. What a mighty man, then,
must we deem Starkad, who, when enveloped in the most deadly perils, showed himself as great
in refusing aid as in receiving wounds!

When this man departed a woman chanced to approach and walk past the old man. She came up to
him in order to wipe his wounds, but was first bidden to declare what was her birth and calling.
She said that she was a handmaid used to grinding at the mill. Starkad then asked her if she
had children; and when he was told that she had a female child, he told her to go home and
give the breast to her squalling daughter; for he thought it most uncomely that he should borrow
help from a woman of the lowest degree. Moreover, he knew that she could nourish her own flesh
and blood with milk better than she could minister to the wounds of a stranger.

As the woman was departing, a young man came riding up in a cart. He saw the old man, and drew
near to minister to his wounds. On being asked who he was, he said his father was a labourer,
and added that he was used to the labours of a peasant. Starkad praised his origin, and pronounced
that his calling was also most worthy of honour; for, he said, such men sought a livelihood
by honourable traffic in their labour, inasmuch as they knew not of any gain, save what they
had earned by the sweat of their brow. He also thought that a country life was justly to be
preferred even to the most splendid riches; for the most wholesome fruits of it seemed to be
born and reared in the shelter of a middle estate, halfway between magnificence and squalor.
But he did not wish to pass the kindness of the youth unrequited, and rewarded the esteem he
had shown him with the mantle he had cast among the thorns. So the peasant's son approached,
replaced the parts of his belly that had been torn away, and bound up with a plait of withies
the mass of intestines that had fallen out. Then he took the old man to his car, and with the
most zealous respect carried him away to the palace.

Meantime Helga, in language betokening the greatest wariness, began to instruct her husband,
saying that she knew that Starkad, as soon as he came back from conquering the champions, would
punish him for his absence, thinking that he had inclined more to sloth and lust than to his
promise to fight as appointed. Therefore he must withstand Starkad boldly, because he always
spared the brave but loathed the coward. Helge respected equally her prophecy and her counsel,
and braced his soul and body with a glow of valorous enterprise. Starkad, when he had been
driven to the palace, heedless of the pain of his wounds, leaped swiftly out of the cart, and
just like a man who was well from top to toe, burst into the bridal-chamber, shattering the
doors with his fist. Then Helge leapt from his bed, and, as he had been taught by the counsel
of his wife, plunged his blade full at Starkad's forehead. And since he seemed to be meditating
a second blow, and to be about to make another thrust with his sword, Helga flew quickly from
the couch, caught up a shield, and, by interposing it, saved the old man from impending destruction;
for, notwithstanding, Helge with a stronger stroke of his blade smote the shield right through
to the boss. Thus the praiseworthy wit of the woman aided her friend, and her hand saved him
whom her counsel had injured; for she protected the old man by her deed, as well as her husband
by her warning. Starkad was induced by this to let Helge go scot-free; saying that a man whose
ready and assured courage so surely betokened manliness, ought to be spared; for he vowed that
a man ill deserved death whose brave spirit was graced with such a dogged will to resist.

Starkad went back to Sweden before his wounds had been treated with medicine, or covered with
a single scar. Halfdan had been killed by his rivals; and Starkad, after quelling certain rebels,
set up Siward as the heir to his father's sovereignty. With him he sojourned a long time; but
when he heard--for the rumour spread--that Ingild, the son of Frode (who had been treacherously
slain), was perversely minded, and instead of punishing his father's murderers, bestowed upon
them kindness and friendship, he was vexed with stinging wrath at so dreadful a crime. And,
resenting that a youth of such great parts should have renounced his descent from his glorious
father, he hung on his shoulders a mighty mass of charcoal, as though it were some costly burden,
and made his way to Denmark. When asked by those he met why he was taking along so unusual
a load, he said that he would sharpen the dull wits of King Ingild to a point by bits of charcoal.
So he accomplished a swift and headlong journey, as though at a single breath, by a short and
speedy track; and at last, becoming the guest of Ingild, he went up, as his custom was, in
to the seat appointed for the great men; for he had been used to occupy the highest post of
distinction with the kings of the last generation.

When the queen came in, and saw him covered over with filth and clad in the mean, patched clothes
of a peasant, the ugliness of her guest's dress made her judge him with little heed; and, measuring
the man by the clothes, she reproached him with crassness of wit, because he had gone before
greater men in taking his place at table, and had assumed a seat that was too good for his
boorish attire. She bade him quit the place, that he might not touch the cushions with his
dress, which was fouler than it should have been. For she put down to crassness and brazenness
what Starkad only did from proper pride; she knew not that on a high seat of honour the mind
sometimes shines brighter than the raiment. The spirited old man obeyed, though vexed at the
rebuff, and with marvellous self-control choked down the insult which his bravery so ill deserved;
uttering at this disgrace he had received neither word nor groan. But he could not long bear
to hide the bitterness of his anger in silence. Rising, and retreating to the furthest end
of the palace, he flung his body against the walls; and strong as they were, he so battered
them with the shock, that the beams quaked mightily; and he nearly brought the house down in
a crash. Thus, stung not only with his rebuff, but with the shame of having poverty cast in
his teeth, he unsheathed his wrath against the insulting speech of the queen with inexorable
sternness.

Ingild, on his return from hunting, scanned him closely, and, when he noticed that he neither
looked cheerfully about, nor paid him the respect of rising, saw by the sternness written on
his brow that it was Starkad. For when he noted his hands horny with fighting, his scars in
front, the force and fire of his eye, he perceived that a man whose body was seamed with so
many traces of wounds had no weakling soul. He therefore rebuked his wife, and charged her
roundly to put away her haughty tempers, and to soothe and soften with kind words and gentle
offices the man she had reviled; to comfort him with food and drink, and refresh him with kindly
converse; saying, that this man had been appointed his tutor by his father long ago, and had
been a most tender guardian of his childhood. Then, learning too late the temper of the old
man, she turned her harshness into gentleness, and respectfully waited on him whom she had
rebuffed and railed at with bitter revilings. The angry hostess changed her part, and became
the most fawning of flatterers. She wished to check his anger with her attentiveness; and her
fault was the less, inasmuch as she was so quick in ministering to him after she had been chidden.
But she paid dearly for it, for she presently beheld stained with the blood of her brethren
the place where she had flouted and rebuffed the brave old man from his seat.

Now, in the evening, Ingild took his meal with the sons of Swerting, and fell to a magnificent
feast, loading the tables with the profusest dishes. With friendly invitation he kept the old
man back from leaving the revel too early; as though the delights of elaborate dainties could
have undermined that staunch and sturdy virtue! But when Starkad had set eyes on these things,
he scorned so wanton a use of them; and, not to give way a whit to foreign fashions, he steeled
his appetite against these tempting delicacies with the self-restraint which was his greatest
strength. He would not suffer his repute as a soldier to be impaired by the allurements of
an orgy. For his valour loved thrift, and was a stranger to all superfluity of food, and averse
to feasting in excess. For his was a courage which never at any moment had time to make luxury
of aught account, and always forewent pleasure to pay due heed to virtue. So, when he saw that
the antique character of self-restraint, and all good old customs, were being corrupted by
new-fangled luxury and sumptuosity, he wished to be provided with a morsel fitter for a peasant,
and scorned the costly and lavish feast.

Spurning profuse indulgence in food, Starkad took some smoky and rather rancid fare, appeasing
his hunger with a bitter relish because more simply; and being unwilling to enfeeble his true
valour with the tainted sweetness of sophisticated foreign dainties, or break the rule of antique
plainness by such strange idolatries of the belly. He was also very wroth that they should
go, to the extravagance of having the same meat both roasted and boiled at the same meal; for
he considered an eatable which was steeped in the vapours of the kitchen, and which the skill
of the cook rubbed over with many kinds of flavours, in the light of a monstrosity.

Unlike Starkad Ingild flung the example of his ancestors to the winds, and gave himself freer
licence of innovation in the fashions of the table than the custom of his fathers allowed.
For when he had once abandoned himself to the manners of Teutonland, he did not blush to yield
to its unmanly wantonness. No slight incentives to debauchery have flowed down our country's
throat from that sink of a land. Hence came magnificent dishes, sumptuous kitchens, the base
service of cooks, and all sorts of abominable sausages. Hence came our adoption, wandering
from the ways of our fathers, of a more dissolute dress. Thus our country, which cherished
self-restraint as its native quality, has gone begging to our neighbours for luxury; whose
allurements so charmed Ingild, that he did not think it shameful to requite wrongs with kindness;
nor did the grievous murder of his father make him heave one sigh of bitterness when it crossed
his mind.

But the queen would not depart without effecting her purpose. Thinking that presents would
be the best way to banish the old man's anger, she took off her own head a band of marvellous
handiwork, and put it in his lap as he supped: desiring to buy his favour since she could not
blunt his courage. But Starkad, whose bitter resentment was not yet abated, flung it back in
the face of the giver, thinking that in such a gift there was more scorn than respect. And
he was wise not to put this strange ornament of female dress upon the head that was all bescarred
and used to the helmet; for he knew that the locks of a man ought not to wear a woman's head-band.
Thus he avenged slight with slight, and repaid with retorted scorn the disdain he had received;
thereby bearing himself well-nigh as nobly in avenging his disgrace as he had borne himself
in enduring it.

To the soul of Starkad reverence for Frode was grappled with hooks of love. Drawn to him by
deeds of bounty, countless kindnesses, he could not be wheedled into giving up his purpose
of revenge by any sort of alluring complaisance. Even now, when Frode was no more, he was eager
to pay the gratitude due to his benefits, and to requite the kindness of the dead, whose loving
disposition and generous friendship he had experienced while he lived. For he bore graven so
deeply in his heart the grievous picture of Frode's murder, that his honour for that most famous
captain could never be plucked from the inmost chamber of his soul; and therefore he did not
hesitate to rank his ancient friendship before the present kindness. Besides, when he recalled
the previous affront, he could not thank the complaisance that followed; he could not put aside
the disgraceful wound to his self-respect. For the memory of benefits or injuries ever sticks
more firmly in the minds of brave men than in those of weaklings. For he had not the habits
of those who follow their friends in prosperity and quit them in adversity, who pay more regard
to fortune than to looks, and sit closer to their own gain than to charity toward others.

But the woman held to her purpose, seeing that even so she could not win the old man to convivial
mirth. Continuing with yet more lavish courtesy her efforts to soothe him, and to heap more
honours on the guest, she bade a piper strike up, and started music to melt his unbending rage.
For she wanted to unnerve his stubborn nature by means of cunning sounds. But the cajolery
of pipe or string was just as powerless to enfeeble that dogged warrior. When he heard it,
he felt that the respect paid him savoured more of pretence than of love. Hence the crestfallen
performer seemed to be playing to a statue rather than a man, and learnt that it is vain for
buffoons to assail with, their tricks a settled and weighty sternness, and that a mighty mass
cannot be shaken with the idle puffing of the lips. For Starkad had set his face so firmly
in his stubborn wrath, that he seemed not a whit easier to move than ever. For the inflexibility
which he owed his vows was not softened either by the strain of the lute or the enticements
of the palate; and he thought that more respect should be paid to his strenuous and manly purpose
than to the tickling of the ears or the lures of the feast. Accordingly he flung the bone,
which he had stripped in eating the meat, in the face of the harlequin, and drove the wind
violently out of his puffed cheeks, so that they collapsed. By this he showed how his austerity
loathed the clatter of the stage; for his ears were stopped with anger and open to no influence
of delight. This reward, befitting an actor, punished an unseemly performance with a shameful
wage. For Starkad excellently judged the man's deserts, and bestowed a shankbone for the piper
to pipe on, requiting his soft service with a hard fee. None could say whether the actor piped
or wept the louder; he showed by his bitter flood of tears how little place bravery has in
the breasts of the dissolute. For the fellow was a mere minion of pleasure, and had never learnt
to bear the assaults of calamity. This man's hurt was ominous of the carnage that was to follow
at the feast. Right well did Starkad's spirit, heedful of sternness, hold with stubborn gravity
to steadfast revenge; for he was as much disgusted at the lute as others were delighted, and
repaid the unwelcome service by insultingly flinging a bone; thus avowing that he owed a greater
debt to the glorious dust of his mighty friend than to his shameless and infamous ward.

But when Starkad saw that the slayers of Frode were in high favour with the king, his stern
glances expressed the mighty wrath which he harboured, and his face betrayed what he felt.
The visible fury of his gaze betokened the secret tempest in his heart. At last, when Ingild
tried to appease him with royal fare, he spurned the dainty. Satisfied with cheap and common
food, he utterly spurned outlandish delicacies; he was used to plain diet, and would not pamper
his palate with any delightful flavour. When he was asked why he had refused the generous attention
of the king with such a clouded brow, he said that he had come to Denmark to find the son of
Frode, not a man who crammed his proud and gluttonous stomach with rich elaborate feasts. For
the Teuton extravagance which the king favoured had led him, in his longing for the pleasures
of abundance, to set to the fire again, for roasting, dishes which had been already boiled.
Thereupon he could not forbear from attacking Ingild's character, but poured out the whole
bitterness of his reproaches on his head. He condemned his unfilial spirit, because he gaped
with repletion and vented his squeamishness in filthy hawkings; because, following the lures
of the Saxons, he strayed and departed far from soberness; because he was so lacking in manhood
as not to pursue even the faintest shadow of it. But, declared Starkad, he bore the heaviest
load of infamy, because, even when he first began to see service, he forgot to avenge his father,
to whose butchers, forsaking the law of nature, he was kind and attentive. Men whose deserts
were most vile he welcomed with loving affection; and not only did he let those go scot-free,
whom he should have punished most sharply, but he even judged them fit persons to live with
and entertain at his table, whereas he should rather have put them to death. Hereupon Starkad
is also said to have sung as follows:

"Let the unwarlike youth yield to the aged, let him honour all the years of him that is old.
When a man is brave, let none reproach the number of his days.

"Though the hair of the ancient whiten with age, their valour stays still the same; nor shall
the lapse of time have power to weaken their manly heart.

"I am elbowed away by the offensive guest, who taints with vice his outward show of goodness,
whilst he is the slave of his belly and prefers his daily dainties to anything.

"When I was counted as a comrade of Frode, I ever sat in the midst of warriors on a high seat
in the hall, and I was the first of the princes to take my meal.

"Now, the lot of a nobler age is reversed; I am shut in a corner, I am like the fish that seeks
shelter as it wanders to and fro hidden in the waters.

"I, who used surely in the former age to lie back on a couch handsomely spread, am now thrust
among the hindmost and driven from the crowded hall.

"Perchance I had been driven on my back at the doors, had not the wall struck my side and turned
me back, and had not the beam, in the way made it hard for me to fly when I was thrust forth.

"I am baited with the jeers of the court-folk; I am not received as a guest should be; I am
girded at with harsh gibing, and stung with babbling taunts.

"I am a stranger, and would gladly know what news are spread abroad by busy rumour; what is
the course of events; what the order of the land; what is doing in your country.

"Thou, Ingild, buried in sin, why dost thou tarry in the task of avenging thy father? Wilt
thou think tranquilly of the slaughter of thy righteous sire?

"Why dost thou, sluggard, think only of feasting, and lean thy belly back in ease, more effeminate
than harlots? Is the avenging of thy slaughtered father a little thing to thee?

"When last I left thee, Frode, I learned by my prophetic soul that thou, mightiest of kings,
wouldst surely perish by the sword of enemies.

"And while I travelled long in the land, a warning groan rose in my soul, which augured that
thereafter I was never to see thee more.

"Wo is me, that then I was far away, harrying the farthest peoples of the earth, when the traitorous
guest aimed craftily at the throat of his king.

"Else I would either have shown myself the avenger of my lord, or have shared his fate and
fallen where he fell, and would joyfully have followed the blessed king in one and the same death.

"I have not come to indulge in gluttonous feasting, the sin whereof I will strive to chastise;
nor will I take mine ease, nor the delights of the fat belly.

"No famous king has ever set me before in the middle by the strangers. I have been wont to
sit in the highest seats among friends.

"I have come from Sweden, travelling over wide lands, thinking that I should be rewarded, if
only I had the joy to find the son of my beloved Frode.

"But I sought a brave man, and I have come to a glutton, a king who is the slave of his belly
and of vice, whose liking has been turned back towards wantonness by filthy pleasure.

"Famous is the speech men think that Halfdan spoke: he warned us it would soon come to pass
that an understanding father should beget a witless son.

"Though the heir be deemed degenerate, I will not suffer the wealth of mighty Frode to profit
strangers or to be made public like plunder."

At these words the queen trembled, and she took from her head the ribbon with which she happened,
in woman's fashion, to be adorning her hair, and proffered it to the enraged old man, as though
she could avert his anger with a gift. Starkad in anger flung it back most ignominiously in
the face of the giver, and began again in a loud voice:

"Take hence, I pray thee, thy woman's gift, and set back thy headgear on thy head; no brave
man assumes the chaplets that befit Love only.

"For it is amiss that the hair of men that are ready for battle should be bound back with wreathed
gold; such attire is right for the throngs of the soft and effeminate.

"But take this gift to thy husband, who loves luxury, whose finger itches, while he turns over
the rump and handles the flesh of the bird roasted brown.

"The flighty and skittish wife of Ingild longs to observe the fashions of the Teutons; she
prepares the orgy and makes ready the artificial dainties.

"For she tickles the palate with a new-fangled feast; she pursues the zest of an unknown flavour,
raging to load all the tables with dishes yet more richly than before.

"She gives her lord wine to drink in bowls, pondering all things with zealous preparation;
she bids the cooked meats be roasted, and intends them for a second fire.

"Wantonly she feeds her husband like a hog; a shameless whore, trusting....

"She roasts the boiled, and recooks the roasted meats, planning the meal with spendthrift extravagance,
careless of right and wrong, practising sin, a foul woman.

"Wanton in arrogance, a soldier of Love, longing for dainties, she abjures the fair ways of
self-control, and also provides devices for gluttony.

"With craving stomach she desires turnip strained in a smooth pan, cakes with thin juice, and
shellfish in rows.

"I do not remember the Great Frode putting his hand to the sinews of birds, or tearing the
rump of a cooked fowl with crooked thumb.

"What former king could have been so gluttonous as to stir the stinking filthy flesh, or rummage
in the foul back of a bird with plucking fingers?

"The food of valiant men is raw; no need, methinks, of sumptuous tables for those whose stubborn
souls are bent on warfare.

"It had been fitter for thee to have torn the stiff beard, biting hard with thy teeth, than
greedily to have drained the bowl of milk with thy wide mouth.

"We fled from the offence of the sumptuous kitchen; we stayed our stomach with rancid fare;
few in the old days loved cooked juices.

"A dish with no sauce of herbs gave us the flesh of rams and swine. We partook temperately,
tainting nothing with bold excess.

"Thou who now lickest the milk-white fat, put on, prithee, the spirit of a man; remember Frode,
and avenge thy father's death.

"The worthless and cowardly heart shall perish, and shall not parry the thrust of death by
flight, though it bury itself in a valley, or crouch in darkling dens.

"Once we were eleven princes, devoted followers of King Hakon, and here Geigad sat above Helge
in the order of the meal.

"Geigad used to appease the first pangs of hunger with a dry rump of ham; and plenty of hard
crust quelled the craving of his stomach.

"No one asked for a sickly morsel; all took their food in common; the meal of mighty men cost
but slight display.

"The commons shunned foreign victual, and the greatest lusted not for a feast; even the king
remembered to live temperately at little cost.

"Scorning to look at the mead, he drank the fermented juice of Ceres; he shrank not from the
use of undercooked meats, and hated the roast.

"The board used to stand with slight display, a modest salt-cellar showed the measure of its
cost; lest the wise ways of antiquity should in any wise be changed by foreign usage.

"Of old, no man put flagons or mixing-bowls on the tables; the steward filled the cup from
the butt, and there was no abundance of adorned vessels.

"No one who honoured past ages put the smooth wine-jars beside the tankards, and of old no
bedizened lackey heaped the platter with dainties.

"Nor did the vainglorious host deck the meal with little salt-shell or smooth cup; but all
has been now abolished in shameful wise by the new-fangled manners.

"Who would ever have borne to take money in ransom for the death of a lost parent, or to have
asked a foe for a gift to atone for the murder of a father?

"What strong heir or well-starred son would have sat side by side with such as these, letting
a shameful bargain utterly unnerve the warrior?

"Wherefore, when the honours of kings are sung, and bards relate the victories of captains,
I hide my face for shame in my mantle, sick at heart.

"For nothing shines in thy trophies, worthy to be recorded by the pen; no heir of Frode is
named in the roll of the honourable.

"Why dost thou vex me with insolent gaze, thou who honourest the foe guilty of thy father's
blood, and art thought only to take thy vengeance with loaves and warm soup?

"When men speak well of the avengers of crimes, then long thou to lose thy quick power of hearing,
that thy impious spirit may not be ashamed.

"For oft has the virtue of another vexed a heart that knows its guilt, and the malice in the
breast is abashed by the fair report of the good.

"Though thou go to the East, or live sequestered in the countries of the West, or whether,
driven thence, thou seek the midmost place of the earth;

"Whether thou revisit the cold quarter of the heaven where the pole is to be seen, and carries
on the sphere with its swift spin, and looks down upon the neighbouring Bear;

"Shame shall accompany thee far, and shall smite thy countenance with heavy disgrace, when
the united assembly of the great kings is taking pastime.

"Since everlasting dishonour awaits thee, thou canst not come amidst the ranks of the famous;
and in every clime thou shalt pass thy days in infamy.

"The fates have given Frode an offspring born into the world when gods were adverse, whose
desires have been enthralled by crime and ignoble lust.

"Even as in a ship all things foul gather to the filthy hollow of the bilge, even so hath a
flood of vices poured into Ingild.

"Therefore, in terror of thy shame being published, thou shalt lie crushed in the corners of
the land, sluggish on thy foul hearth, and never to be seen in the array of the famous.

"Then shalt thou shake thy beard at thine evil fate, kept down by the taunts of thy mistresses,
when thy paramour galls thy ear with her querulous cries.

"Since chill fear retards thy soul, and thou dreadest to become the avenger of thy sire, thou
art utterly degenerate, and thy ways are like a slave's.

"It would have needed scant preparation to destroy thee; even as if a man should catch and
cut the throat of a kid, or slit the weazand of a soft sheep and butcher it.

"Behold, a son of the tyrant Swerting shall take the inheritance of Denmark after thee; he
whose slothful sister thou keepest in infamous union.

"Whilst thou delightest to honour thy bride, laden with gems and shining in gold apparel, we
burn with all indignation that is linked with shame, lamenting thy infamies.

"When thou art stirred by furious lust, our mind is troubled, and recalls the fashion of ancient
times, and bids us grieve sorely.

"For we rate otherwise than thou the crime of the foes whom now thou holdest in honour; wherefore
the face of this age is a burden to me, remembering the ancient ways.

"I would crave no greater blessing, O Frode, if I might see those guilty of thy murder duly
punished for such a crime."

Now he prevailed so well by this stirring counsel, that his reproach served like a flint wherewith
to strike a blazing flame of valour in the soul that had been chill and slack. For the king
had at first heard the song inattentively; but, stirred by the earnest admonition of his guardian,
he conceived in his heart a tardy fire of revenge; and, forgetting the reveller, he changed
into the foeman. At last he leapt up from where he lay, and poured the whole flood of his anger
on those at table with him; insomuch that he unsheathed his sword upon the sons of Swerting
with bloody ruthlessness, and aimed with drawn blade at the throats of those whose gullets
he had pampered with the pleasures of the table. These men he forthwith slew; and by so doing
he drowned the holy rites of the table in blood. He sundered the feeble bond of their league,
and exchanged a shameful revel for enormous cruelty; the host became the foe, and that vilest
slave of excess the bloodthirsty agent of revenge. For the vigorous pleading of his counsellor
bred a breath of courage in his soft and unmanly youth; it drew out his valour from its lurking-place,
and renewed it, and so fashioned it that the authors of a most grievous murder were punished
even as they deserved. For the young man's valour had been not quenched, but only in exile,
and the aid of an old man had drawn it out into the light; and it accomplished a deed which
was all the greater for its tardiness; for it was somewhat nobler to steep the cups in blood
than in wine. What a spirit, then, must we think that old man had, who by his eloquent adjuration
expelled from that king's mind its infinite sin, and who, bursting the bonds of iniquity, implanted
a most effectual seed of virtue. Starkad aided the king with equal achievements; and not only
showed the most complete courage in his own person, but summoned back that which had been rooted
out of the heart of another. When the deed was done, he thus begun:

"King Ingild, farewell; thy heart, full of valour, hath now shown a deed of daring. The spirit
that reigns in thy body is revealed by its fair beginning; nor did there lack deep counsel
in thy heart, though thou wert silent till this hour; for thou dost redress by thy bravery
what delay had lost, and redeemest the sloth of thy spirit by mighty valour. Come now, let
us rout the rest, and let none escape the peril which all alike deserve. Let the crime come
home to the culprit; let the sin return and crush its contriver.

"Let the servants take up in a car the bodies of the slain, and let the attendant quickly bear
out the carcases. Justly shall they lack the last rites; they are unworthy to be covered with
a mound; let no funeral procession or pyre suffer them the holy honour of a barrow; let them
be scattered to rot in the fields, to be consumed by the beaks of birds; let them taint the
country all about with their deadly corruption.

"Do thou too, king, if thou hast any wit, flee thy savage bride, lest the she-wolf bring forth
a litter like herself, and a beast spring from thee that shall hurt its own father.

"Tell me, Rote, continual derider of cowards, thinkest thou that we have avenged Frode enough,
when we have spent seven deaths on the vengeance of one? Lo, those are borne out dead who paid
homage not to thy sway in deed, but only in show, and though obsequious they planned treachery.
But I always cherished this hope, that noble fathers have noble offspring, who will follow
in their character the lot which they received by their birth. Therefore, Ingild, better now
than in time past dost thou deserve to be called lord of Leire and of Denmark.

"When, O King Hakon, I was a beardless youth, and followed thy leading and command in warfare,
I hated luxury and wanton souls, and practiced only wars. Training body and mind together,
I banished every unholy thing from my soul, and shunned the pleasures of the belly, loving
deeds of prowess. For those that followed the calling of arms had rough clothing and common
gear and short slumbers and scanty rest. Toil drove ease far away, and the time ran by at scanty
cost. Not as with some men now, the light of whose reason is obscured by insatiate greed with
its blind maw. Some one of these clad in a covering of curiously wrought raiment effeminately
guides the fleet-footed (steed), and unknots his dishevelled locks, and lets his hair fly abroad
loosely.

"He loves to plead often in the court, and to covet a base pittance, and with this pursuit
he comforts his sluggish life, doing with venal tongue the business entrusted to him.

"He outrages the laws by force, he makes armed assault upon men's rights, he tramples on the
innocent, he feeds on the wealth of others, he practices debauchery and gluttony, he vexes
good fellowship with biting jeers, and goes after harlots as a hoe after the grass.

"The coward falls when battles are lulled in peace. Though he who fears death lie in the heart
of the valley, no mantlet shall shelter him. His final fate carries off every living man; doom
is not to be averted by skulking. But I, who have shaken the whole world with my slaughters,
shall I enjoy a peaceful death? Shall I be taken up to the stars in a quiet end? Shall I die
in my bed without a wound?"

BOOK SEVEN.

We are told by historians of old, that Ingild had four sons, of whom three perished in war,
while OLAF alone reigned after his father; but some say that Olaf was the son of Ingild's sister,
though this opinion is doubtful. Posterity has but an uncertain knowledge of his deeds, which
are dim with the dust of antiquity; nothing but the last counsel of his wisdom has been rescued
by tradition. For when he was in the last grip of death he took thought for his sons FRODE
and HARALD, and bade them have royal sway, one over the land and the other over the sea, and
receive these several powers, not in prolonged possession, but in yearly rotation. Thus their
share in the rule was made equal; but Frode, who was the first to have control of the affairs
of the sea, earned disgrace from his continual defeats in roving. His calamity was due to his
sailors being newly married, and preferring nuptial joys at home to the toils of foreign warfare.
After a time Harald, the younger son, received the rule of the sea, and chose soldiers who
were unmarried, fearing to be baffled like his brother. Fortune favoured his choice; for he
was as glorious a rover as his brother was inglorious; and this earned him his brother's hatred.
Moreover, their queens, Signe and Ulfhild, one of whom was the daughter of Siward, King of
Sweden, the other of Karl, the governor of Gothland, were continually wrangling as to which
was the nobler, and broke up the mutual fellowship of their husbands. Hence Harald and Frode,
when their common household was thus shattered, divided up the goods they held in common, and
gave more heed to the wrangling altercations of the women than to the duties of brotherly affection.

Moreover, Frode, judging that his brother's glory was a disgrace to himself and brought him
into contempt, ordered one of his household to put him to death secretly; for he saw that the
man of whom he had the advantage in years was surpassing him in courage. When the deed was
done, he had the agent of his treachery privily slain, lest the accomplice should betray the
crime. Then, in order to gain the credit of innocence and escape the brand of crime, he ordered
a full inquiry to be made into the mischance that had cut off his brother so suddenly. But
he could not manage, by all his arts, to escape silent condemnation in the thoughts of the
common people. He afterwards asked Karl, "Who had killed Harald?" and Karl replied that it
was deceitful in him to ask a question about something which he knew quite well. These words
earned him his death; for Frode thought that he had reproached him covertly with fratricide.

After this, the lives of Harald and Halfdan, the sons of Harald by Signe the daughter of Karl,
were attempted by their uncle. But the guardians devised a cunning method of saving their wards.
For they cut off the claws of wolves and tied them to the soles of their feet; and then made
them run along many times so as to harrow up the mud near their dwelling, as well as the ground
(then covered with, snow), and give the appearance of an attack by wild beasts. Then they killed
the children of some bond-women, tore their bodies into little pieces, and scattered their
mangled limbs all about. So when the youths were looked for in vain, the scattered limbs were
found, the tracks of the beasts were pointed out, and the ground was seen besmeared with blood.
It was believed that the boys had been devoured by ravening wolves; and hardly anyone was suffered
to doubt so plain a proof that they were mangled. The belief in this spectacle served to protect
the wards. They were presently shut up by their guardians in a hollow oak, so that no trace
of their being alive should get abroad, and were fed for a long time under pretence that they
were dogs; and were even called by hounds' names, to prevent any belief getting abroad that
they were hiding. (1)

Frode alone refused to believe in their death; and he went and inquired of a woman skilled
in divination where they were hid. So potent were her spells, that she seemed able, at any
distance, to perceive anything, however intricately locked away, and to summon it out to light.
She declared that one Ragnar had secretly undertaken to rear them, and had called them by the
names of dogs to cover the matter. When the young men found themselves dragged from their hiding
by the awful force of her spells, and brought before the eyes of the enchantress, loth to be
betrayed by this terrible and imperious compulsion, they flung into her lap a shower of gold
which they had received from their guardians. When she had taken the gift, she suddenly feigned
death, and fell like one lifeless. Her servants asked the reason why she fell so suddenly;
and she declared that the refuge of the sons of Harald was inscrutable; for their wondrous
might qualified even the most awful effects of her spells. Thus she was content with a slight
benefit, and could not bear to await a greater reward at the king's hands. After this Ragnar,
finding that the belief concerning himself and his wards was becoming rife in common talk,
took them, both away into Funen. Here he was taken by Frode, and confessed that he had put
the young men in safe keeping; and he prayed the king to spare the wards whom he had made fatherless,
and not to think it a piece of good fortune to be guilty of two unnatural murders. By this
speech he changed the king's cruelty into shame; and he promised that if they attempted any
plots in their own land, he would give information to the king. Thus he gained safety for his
wards, and lived many years in freedom from terror.

When the boys grew up, they went to Zealand, and were bidden by their friends to avenge their
father. They vowed that they and their uncle should not both live out the year. When Ragnar
found this out, he went by night to the palace, prompted by the recollection of his covenant,
and announced that he was come privily to tell the king something he had promised. But the
king was asleep, and he would not suffer them to wake him up, because Frode had been used to
punish any disturbance of his rest with the sword. So mighty a matter was it thought of old
to break the slumbers of a king by untimely intrusion. Frode heard this from the sentries in
the morning; and when he perceived that Ragnar had come to tell him of the treachery, he gathered
together his soldiers, and resolved to forestall deceit by ruthless measures. Harald's sons
had no help for it but to feign madness. For when they found themselves suddenly attacked,
they began to behave like maniacs, as if they were distraught. And when Frode thought that
they were possessed, he gave up his purpose, thinking it shameful to attack with the sword
those who seemed to be turning the sword against themselves. But he was burned to death by
them on the following night, and was punished as befitted a fratricide. For they attacked the
palace, and first crushing the queen with a mass of stones and then, having set fire to the
house, they forced Frode to crawl into a narrow cave that had been cut out long before, and
into the dark recesses of tunnels. Here he lurked in hiding and perished, stifled by the reek
and smoke.

After Frode was killed, HALFDAN reigned over his country about three years, and then, handing
over his sovereignty to his brother Harald as deputy, went roving, and attacked and ravaged
Oland and the neighbouring isles, which are severed from contact with Sweden by a winding sound.
Here in the winter he beached and entrenched his ships, and spent three years on the expedition.
After this he attacked Sweden, and destroyed its king in the field. Afterwards he prepared
to meet the king's grandson Erik, the son of his own uncle Frode, in battle; and when he heard
that Erik's champion, Hakon, was skillful in blunting swords with his spells, he fashioned,
to use for clubbing, a huge mace studded with iron knobs, as if he would prevail by the strength
of wood over the power of sorcery. Then--for he was conspicuous beyond all others for his bravery--amid
the hottest charges of the enemy, he covered his head with his helmet, and, without a shield,
poised his club, and with the help of both hands whirled it against the bulwark of shields
before him. No obstacle was so stout but it was crushed to pieces by the blow of the mass that
smote it. Thus he overthrew the champion, who ran against him in the battle, with a violent
stroke of his weapon. But he was conquered notwithstanding, and fled away into Helsingland,
where he went to one Witolf (who had served of old with Harald), to seek tendance for his wounds.
This man had spent most of his life in camp; but at last, after the grievous end of his general,
he had retreated into this lonely district, where he lived the life of a peasant, and rested
from the pursuits of war. Often struck himself by the missiles of the enemy, he had gained
no slight skill in leechcraft by constantly tending his own wounds. But if anyone came with
flatteries to seek his aid, instead of curing him he was accustomed to give him something that
would secretly injure him, thinking it somewhat nobler to threaten than to wheedle for benefits.
When the soldiers of Erik menaced his house, in their desire to take Halfdan, he so robbed
them of the power of sight that they could neither perceive the house nor trace it with certainty,
though it was close to them. So utterly had their eyesight been dulled by a decisive mist.

When Halfdan had by this man's help regained his full strength, he summoned Thore, a champion
of notable capacity, and proclaimed war against Erik. But when the forces were led out on the
other side, and he saw that Erik was superior in numbers, he hid a part of his army, and instructed
it to lie in ambush among the bushes by the wayside, in order to destroy the enemy by an ambuscade
as he marched through the narrow part of the path. Erik foresaw this, having reconnoitred his
means of advancing, and thought he must withdraw for fear, if he advanced along the track he
had intended, of being hard-pressed by the tricks of the enemy among the steep windings of
the hills. They therefore joined battle, force against force, in a deep valley, inclosed all
round by lofty mountain ridges. Here Halfdan, when he saw the line of his men wavering, climbed
with Thore up a crag covered with stones and, uprooting boulders, rolled them down upon the
enemy below; and the weight of these as they fell crushed the line that was drawn up in the
lower position. Thus he regained with stones the victory which he had lost with arms. For this
deed of prowess he received the name of Biargramm ("rock strong"), a word which seems to have
been compounded from the name of his fierceness and of the mountains. He soon gained so much
esteem for this among the Swedes that he was thought to be the son of the great Thor, and the
people bestowed divine honours upon him, and judged him worthy of public libation.

But the souls of the conquered find it hard to rest, and the insolence of the beaten ever struggles
towards the forbidden thing. So it came to pass that Erik, in his desire to repair the losses
incurred in flight, attacked the districts subject to Halfdan. Even Denmark he did not exempt
from this harsh treatment; for he thought it a most worthy deed to assail the country of the
man who had caused him to be driven from his own. And so, being more anxious to inflict injury
than to repel it, he set Sweden free from the arms of the enemy. When Halfdan heard that his
brother Harald had been beaten by Erik in three battles, and slain in the fourth, he was afraid
of losing his empire; he had to quit the land of the Swedes and go back to his own country.
Thus Erik regained the kingdom of Sweden all the more quickly, that he quitted it so lightly.
Had fortune wished to favour him in keeping his kingdom as much as she had in regaining it,
she would in nowise have given him into the hand of Halfdan. This capture was made in the following
way: When Halfdan had gone back into Sweden, he hid his fleet craftily, and went to meet Erik
with two vessels. Erik attacked him with ten; and Halfdan, sailing through sundry winding channels,
stole back to his concealed forces. Erik pursued him too far, and the Danish fleet came out
on the sea. Thus Erik was surrounded; but he rejected the life, which was offered him under
condition of thraldom. He could not bear to think more of the light of day than liberty, and
chose to die rather than serve; lest he should seem to love life so well as to turn from a
slave into a freeman; and that he might not court with new-born obeisance the man whom fortune
had just before made only his equal. So little knows virtue how to buy life with dishonour.
Wherefore he was put in chains, and banished to a place haunted by wild beasts; an end unworthy
of that lofty spirit.

Halfdan had thus become sovereign of both kingdoms, and graced his fame with a triple degree
of honour. For he was skillful and eloquent in composing poems in the fashion of his country;
and he was no less notable as a valorous champion than as a powerful king. But when he heard
that two active rovers, Toke and Anund, were threatening the surrounding districts, he attacked
and routed them in a sea-fight. For the ancients thought that nothing was more desirable than
glory which was gained, not by brilliancy of wealth, but by address in arms. Accordingly, the
most famous men of old were so minded as to love seditions, to renew quarrels, to loathe ease,
to prefer fighting to peace, to be rated by their valour and not by their wealth, to find their
greatest delight in battles, and their least in banquetings.

But Halfdan was not long to seek for a rival. A certain Siwald, of most illustrious birth,
related with lamentation in the assembly of the Swedes the death of Frode and his queen; and
inspired in almost all of them such a hatred of Halfdan, that the vote of the majority granted
him permission to revolt. Nor was he content with the mere goodwill of their voices, but so
won the heart of the commons by his crafty canvassing that he induced almost all of them to
set with their hands the royal emblem on his head. Siwald had seven sons, who were such clever
sorcerers that often, inspired with the force of sudden frenzy, they would roar savagely, bite
their shields, swallow hot coals, and go through any fire that could be piled up; and their
frantic passion could only be checked by the rigour of chains, or propitiated by slaughter
of men. With such a frenzy did their own sanguinary temper, or else the fury of demons, inspire
them.

When Halfdan had heard of these things while busy roving, he said it was right that his soldiers,
who had hitherto spent their rage upon foreigners, should now smite with the steel the flesh
of their own countrymen, and that they who had been used to labour to extend their realm should
now avenge its wrongful seizure. On Halfdan approaching, Siwald sent him ambassadors and requested
him, if he was as great in act as in renown, to meet himself and his sons in single combat,
and save the general peril by his own. When the other answered, that a combat could not lawfully
be fought by more than two men, Siwald said, that it was no wonder that a childless bachelor
should refuse the proffered conflict, since his nature was void of heat, and had struck a disgraceful
frost into his soul and body. Children, he added, were not different from the man who begot
them, since they drew from him their common principle of birth. Thus he and his sons were to
be accounted as one person, for nature seemed in a manner to have bestowed on them a single
body. Halfdan, stung with this shameful affront, accepted the challenge; meaning to wipe out
with noble deeds of valour such an insulting taunt upon his celibacy. And while he chanced
to be walking through a shady woodland, he plucked up by the roots all oak that stuck in his
path, and, by simply stripping it of its branches, made it look like a stout club. Having this
trusty weapon, he composed a short song as follows:

"Behold! The rough burden which I bear with straining crest, shall unto crests bring wounds
and destruction. Never shall any weapon of leafy wood crush the Goths with direr augury. It
shall shatter the towering strength of the knotty neck, and shall bruise the hollow temples
with the mass of timber. The club which shall quell the wild madness of the land shall be no
less fatal to the Swedes. Breaking bones, and brandished about the mangled limbs of warriors,
the stock I have wrenched off shall crush the backs of the wicked, crush the hearths of our
kindred, shed the blood of our countrymen, and be a destructive pest upon our land."

When he had said this, he attacked Siwald and his seven sons, and destroyed them, their force
and bravery being useless against the enormous mass of his club.

At this time one Hardbeen, who came from Helsingland, gloried in kidnapping and ravishing princesses,
and used to kill any man who hindered him in his lusts. He preferred high matches to those
that were lowly; and the more illustrious the victims he could violate, the more noble he thought
himself. No man escaped unpunished who durst measure himself with Hardbeen in valour. He was
so huge, that his stature reached the measure of nine ells. He had twelve champions dwelling
with him, whose business it was to rise up and to restrain his fury with the aid of bonds,
whenever the rage came on him that foreboded of battle. These men asked Halfdan to attack Hardbeen
and his champions man by man; and he not only promised to fight, but assured himself the victory
with most confident words. When Hardbeen heard this, a demoniacal frenzy suddenly took him;
he furiously bit and devoured the edges of his shield; he kept gulping down fiery coals; he
snatched live embers in his mouth and let them pass down into his entrails; he rushed through
the perils of crackling fires; and at last, when he had raved through every sort of madness,
he turned his sword with raging hand against the hearts of six of his champions. It is doubtful
whether this madness came from thirst for battle or natural ferocity. Then with the remaining
band of his champions he attacked Halfdan, who crushed him with a hammer of wondrous size,
so that he lost both victory and life; paying the penalty both to Halfdan, whom he had challenged,
and to the kings whose offspring he had violently ravished.

Fortune never seemed satisfied with the trying of Halfdan's strength, and used to offer him
unexpected occasions for fighting. It so happened that Egther, a Finlander, was harrying the
Swedes on a roving raid. Halfdan, having found that he had three ships, attacked him with the
same number. Night closed the battle, so that he could not conquer him; but he challenged Egther
next day, fought with and overthrew him. He next heard that Grim, a champion of immense strength,
was suing, under threats of a duel, for Thorhild, the daughter of the chief Hather, and that
her father had proclaimed that he who put the champion out of the way should have her. Halfdan,
though he had reached old age a bachelor, was stirred by the promise of the chief as much as
by the insolence of the champion, and went to Norway. When he entered it, he blotted out every
mark by which he could be recognized, disguising his face with splashes of dirt; and when he
came to the spot of the battle, drew his sword first. And when he knew that it had been blunted
by the glance of the enemy, he cast it on the ground, drew another from the sheath, with which
he attacked Grim, cutting through the meshes on the edge of his cuirass, as well as the lower
part of his shield. Grim wondered at the deed, and said, "I cannot remember an old man who
fought more keenly;" and, instantly drawing his sword, he pierced through and shattered the
target that was opposed to his blade. But as his right arm tarried on the stroke, Halfdan,
without wavering, met and smote it swiftly with his sword. The other, notwithstanding, clasped
his sword with his left hand, and cut through the thigh of the striker, revenging the mangling
of his own body with a slight wound. Halfdan, now conqueror, allowed the conquered man to ransom
the remnant of his life with a sum of money; he would not be thought shamefully to rob a maimed
man, who could not fight, of the pitiful remainder of his days. By this deed he showed himself
almost as great in saving as in conquering his enemy. As a prize for this victory he won Thorhild
in marriage, and had by her a son Asmund, from whom the kings of Norway treasure the honour
of being descended; retracing the regular succession of their line down from Halfdan.

After this, Ebbe, a rover of common birth, was so confident of his valour, that he was moved
to aspire to a splendid marriage. He was a suitor for Sigrid, the daughter of Yngwin, King
of the Goths, and moreover demanded half the Gothic kingdom for her dowry. Halfdan was consulted
whether the match should be entertained, and advised that a feigned consent should be given,
promising that he would baulk the marriage. He also gave instructions that a seat should be
allotted to himself among the places of the guests at table. Yngwin approved the advice; and
Halfdan, utterly defacing the dignity of his royal presence with an unsightly and alien disguise,
and coming by night on the wedding feast, alarmed those who met him; for they marvelled at
the coming of a man of such superhuman stature.

When Halfdan entered the palace, he looked round on all and asked, who was he that had taken
the place next to the king? Upon Ebbe replying that the future son-in-law of the king was next
to his side, Halfdan asked him, in the most passionate language, what madness, or what demons,
had brought him to such wantonness, as to make bold to unite his contemptible and filthy race
with a splendid and illustrious line, or to dare to lay his peasant finger upon the royal family:
and, not content even with such a claim, to aspire, as it seemed, to a share even in the kingdom
of another. Then he bade Ebbe fight him, saying that he must get the victory before he got
his wish. The other answered that the night was the time to fight with monsters, but the day
the time with men; but Halfdan, to prevent him shirking the battle by pleading the hour, declared
that the moon was shining with the brightness of daylight. Thus he forced Ebbe to fight, and
felled him, turning the banquet into a spectacle, and the wedding into a funeral.

Some years passed, and Halfdan went back to his own country, and being childless he bequeathed
the royal wealth by will to Yngwin, and appointed him king. YNGWIN was afterwards overthrown
in war by a rival named Ragnald, and he left a son SIWALD.

Siwald's daughter, Sigrid, was of such excellent modesty, that though a great concourse of
suitors wooed her for her beauty, it seemed as if she could not be brought to look at one of
them. Confident in this power of self-restraint, she asked her father for a husband who by
the sweetness of his blandishments should be able to get a look back from her. For in old time
among us the self-restraint of the maidens was a great subduer of wanton looks, lest the soundness
of the soul should be infected by the licence of the eyes; and women desired to avouch the
purity of their hearts by the modesty of their faces. Then one Ottar, the son of Ebb, kindled
with confidence in the greatness either of his own achievements, or of his courtesy and eloquent
address, stubbornly and ardently desired to woo the maiden. And though he strove with all the
force of his wit to soften her gaze, no device whatever could move her downcast eyes; and,
marvelling at her persistence in her indomitable rigour, he departed.

A giant desired the same thing, but, finding himself equally foiled, he suborned a woman; and
she, pretending friendship for the girl, served her for a while as her handmaid, and at last
enticed her far from her father's house, by cunningly going out of the way; then the giant
rushed upon her and bore her off into the closest fastnesses of a ledge on the mountain. Others
think that he disguised himself as a woman, treacherously continued his devices so as to draw
the girl away from her own house, and in the end carried her off. When Ottar heard of this,
he ransacked the recesses of the mountain in search of the maiden, found her, slew the giant,
and bore her off. But the assiduous giant had bound back the locks of the maiden, tightly twisting
her hair in such a way that the matted mass of tresses was held in a kind of curled bundle;
nor was it easy for anyone to unravel their plaited tangle, without using the steel. Again,
he tried with divers allurements to provoke the maiden to look at him; and when he had long
laid vain siege to her listless eyes, he abandoned his quest, since his purpose turned out
so little to his liking. But he could not bring himself to violate the girl, loth to defile
with ignoble intercourse one of illustrious birth. She then wandered long, and sped through
divers desert and circuitous paths, and happened to come to the hut of a certain huge woman
of the woods, who set her to the task of pasturing her goats. Again Ottar granted her his aid
to set her free, and again he tried to move her, addressing her in this fashion: "Wouldst thou
rather hearken to my counsels, and embrace me even as I desire, than be here and tend the flock
of rank goats?

"Spurn the hand of thy wicked mistress, and flee hastily from thy cruel taskmistress, that
thou mayst go back with me to the ships of thy friends and live in freedom.

"Quit the care of the sheep entrusted to thee; scorn to drive the steps of the goats; share
my bed, and fitly reward my prayers.

"O thou whom I have sought with such pains, turn again thy listless beams; for a little while--it
is an easy gesture--lift thy modest face.

"I will take thee hence, and set thee by the house of thy father, and unite thee joyfully with
thy loving mother, if but once thou wilt show me thine eyes stirred with soft desires.

"Thou, whom I have borne so oft from the prisons of the giants, pay thou some due favour to
my toil of old; pity my hard endeavours, and be stern no more.

"For why art thou become so distraught and brainsick, that thou wilt choose to tend the flock
of another, and be counted among the servants of monsters, sooner than encourage our marriage-troth
with fitting and equal consent?"

But she, that she might not suffer the constancy of her chaste mind to falter by looking at
the world without, restrained her gaze, keeping her lids immovably rigid. How modest, then,
must we think, were the women of that age, when, under the strongest provocations of their
lovers, they could not be brought to make the slightest motion of their eyes! So when Ottar
found that even by the merits of his double service he could not stir the maiden's gaze towards
him, he went back to the fleet, wearied out with shame and chagrin. Sigrid, in her old fashion,
ran far away over the rocks, and chanced to stray in her wanderings to the abode of Ebb; where,
ashamed of her nakedness and distress, she pretended to be a daughter of paupers. The mother
of Ottar saw that this woman, though bestained and faded, and covered with a meagre cloak,
was the scion of some noble stock; and took her, and with honourable courtesy kept her by her
side in a distinguished seat. For the beauty of the maiden was a sign that betrayed her birth,
and her telltale features echoed her lineage. Ottar saw her, and asked why she hid her face
in her robe. Also, in order to test her mind more surely, he feigned that a woman was about
to become his wife, and, as he went up into the bride-bed, gave Sigrid the torch to hold. The
lights had almost burnt down, and she was hard put to it by the flame coming closer; but she
showed such an example of endurance that she was seen to hold her hand motionless, and might
have been thought to feel no annoyance from the heat. For the fire within mastered the fire
without, and the glow of her longing soul deadened the burn of her scorched skin. At last Ottar
bade her look to her hand. Then, modestly lifting her eyes, she turned her calm gaze upon him;
and straightway, the pretended marriage being put away, went up unto the bride-bed to be his
wife. Siwald afterwards seized Ottar, and thought that he ought to be hanged for defiling his
daughter.

But Sigrid at once explained how she had happened to be carried away, and not only brought
Ottar back into the king's favour, but also induced her father himself to marry Ottar's sister.
After this a battle was fought between Siwald and Ragnald in Zealand, warriors of picked valour
being chosen on both sides. For three days they slaughtered one another; but so great was the
bravery of both sides, that it was doubtful how the victory would go. Then Ottar, whether seized
with weariness at the prolonged battle, or with desire of glory, broke, despising death, through
the thickest of the foe, cut down Ragnald among the bravest of his soldiers, and won the Danes
a sudden victory. This battle was notable for the cowardice of the greatest nobles. For the
whole mass fell into such a panic, that forty of the bravest of the Swedes are said to have
turned and fled. The chief of these, Starkad, had been used to tremble at no fortune, however
cruel, and no danger, however great. But some strange terror stole upon him, and he chose to
follow the flight of his friends rather than to despise it. I should think that he was filled
with this alarm by the power of heaven, that he might not think himself courageous beyond the
measure of human valour. Thus the prosperity of mankind is wont ever to be incomplete. Then
all these warriors embraced the service of King Hakon, the mightiest of the rovers, like remnants
of the war drifting to him.

After this Siwald was succeeded by his son SIGAR, who had sons Siwald, Alf, and Alger, and
a daughter Signe. All excelled the rest in spirit and beauty, and devoted himself to the business
of a rover. Such a grace was shed on his hair, which had a wonderful dazzling glow, that his
locks seemed to shine silvery. At the same time Siward, the king of the Goths, is said to have
had two sons, Wemund and Osten, and a daughter Alfhild, who showed almost from her cradle such
faithfulness to modesty that she continually kept her face muffled in her robe, lest she should
cause her beauty to provoke the passion of another. Her father banished her into very close
keeping, and gave her a viper and a snake to rear, wishing to defend her chastity by the protection
of these reptiles when they came to grow up. For it would have been hard to pry into her chamber
when it was barred by so dangerous a bolt. He also enacted that if any man tried to enter it,
and failed, he must straightway yield his head to be taken off and impaled on a stake. The
terror which was thus attached to wantonness chastened the heated spirits of the young men.

Alf, the son of Sigar, thinking that peril of the attempt only made it nobler, declared himself
a wooer, and went to subdue the beasts that kept watch beside the room of the maiden; inasmuch
as, according to the decree, the embraces of the maiden were the prize of their subduer. Alf
covered his body with a blood-stained hide in order to make them more frantic against him.
Girt with this, as soon as he had entered the doors of the enclosure, he took a piece of red-hot
steel in the tongs, and plunged it into the yawning throat of the viper, which he laid dead.
Then he flung his spear full into the gaping mouth of the snake as it wound and writhed forward,
and destroyed it. And when he demanded the gage which was attached to victory by the terms
of the covenant, Siward answered that he would accept that man only for his daughter's husband
of whom she made a free and decided choice. None but the girl's mother was stiff against the
wooer's suit; and she privately spoke to her daughter in order to search her mind. The daughter
warmly praised her suitor for his valour; whereon the mother upbraided her sharply, that her
chastity should be unstrung, and she be captivated by charming looks; and because, forgetting
to judge his virtue, she cast the gaze of a wanton mind upon the flattering lures of beauty.
Thus Alfhild was led to despise the young Dane; whereupon she exchanged woman's for man's attire,
and, no longer the most modest of maidens, began the life of a warlike rover.

Enrolling in her service many maidens who were of the same mind, she happened to come to a
spot where a band of rovers were lamenting the death of their captain, who had been lost in
war; they made her their rover captain for her beauty, and she did deeds beyond the valour
of woman. Alf made many toilsome voyages in pursuit of her, and in winter happened to come
on a fleet of the Blacmen. The waters were at this time frozen hard, and the ships were caught
in such a mass of ice that they could not get on by the most violent rowing. But the continued
frost promised the prisoners a safer way of advance; and Alf ordered his men to try the frozen
surface of the sea in their brogues, after they had taken off their slippery shoes, so that
they could run over the level ice more steadily. The Blacmen supposed that they were taking
to flight with all the nimbleness of their heels, and began to fight them, but their steps
tottered exceedingly and they gave back, the slippery surface under their soles making their
footing uncertain. But the Danes crossed the frozen sea with safer steps, and foiled the feeble
advance of the enemy, whom they conquered, and then turned and sailed to Finland. Here they
chanced to enter a rather narrow gulf, and, on sending a few men to reconnoitre, they learnt
that the harbour was being held by a few ships. For Alfhild had gone before them with her fleet
into the same narrows. And when she saw the strange ships afar off, she rowed in swift haste
forward to encounter them, thinking it better to attack the foe than to await them. Alf's men
were against attacking so many ships with so few; but he replied that it would be shameful
if anyone should report to Alfhild that his desire to advance could be checked by a few ships
in the path; for he said that their record of honours ought not to be tarnished by such a trifle.

The Danes wondered whence their enemies got such grace of bodily beauty and such supple limbs.
So, when they began the sea-fight, the young man Alf leapt on Alfhild's prow, and advanced
towards the stern, slaughtering all that withstood him. His comrade Borgar struck off Alfhild's
helmet, and, seeing the smoothness of her chin, saw that he must fight with kisses and not
with arms; that the cruel spears must be put away, and the enemy handled with gentler dealings.
So Alf rejoiced that the woman whom he had sought over land and sea in the face of so many
dangers was now beyond all expectation in his power; whereupon he took hold of her eagerly,
and made her change her man's apparel for a woman's; and afterwards begot on her a daughter,
Gurid. Also Borgar wedded the attendant of Alfhild, Groa, and had by her a son, Harald, to
whom the following age gave the surname Hyldeland.

And that no one may wonder that this sex laboured at warfare, I will make a brief digression,
in order to give a short account of the estate and character of such women. There were once
women among the Danes who dressed themselves to look like men, and devoted almost every instant
of their lives to the pursuit of war, that they might not suffer their valour to be unstrung
or dulled by the infection of luxury. For they abhorred all dainty living, and used to harden
their minds and bodies with toil and endurance. They put away all the softness and lightmindedness
of women, and inured their womanish spirit to masculine ruthlessness. They sought, moreover,
so zealously to be skilled in warfare, that they might have been thought to have unsexed themselves.
Those especially, who had either force of character or tall and comely persons, used to enter
on this kind of life. These women, therefore (just as if they had forgotten their natural estate,
and preferred sternness to soft words), offered war rather than kisses, and would rather taste
blood than busses, and went about the business of arms more than that of amours. They devoted
those hands to the lance which they should rather have applied to the loom. They assailed men
with their spears whom they could have melted with their looks, they thought of death and not
of dalliance. Now I will cease to wander, and will go back to my theme.

In the early spring, Alf and Alger, who had gone back to sea-roving, were exploring the sea
in various directions, when they lighted with a hundred ships upon Helwin, Hagbard, and Hamund,
sons of the kinglet Hamund. These they attacked and only the twilight stayed their blood-wearied
hands; and in the night the soldiers were ordered to keep truce. On the morrow this was ratified
for good by a mutual oath; for such loss had been suffered on both sides in the battle of the
day before that they had no force left to fight again. Thus, exhausted bye quality of valour,
they were driven perforce to make peace. About the same time Hildigisl, a Teuton Of noble birth,
relying on his looks and his rank, sued for Signe, the daughter of Sigar. But she scorned him,
chiefly for his insignificance, inasmuch as he was not brave, but wished to adorn his fortunes
with the courage of other people. But this woman was inclined to love Hakon, chiefly for the
high renown of his great deeds. For she thought more of the brave than the feeble; she admired
notable deeds more than looks, knowing that every allurement of beauty is mere dross when reckoned
against simple valour, and cannot weigh equal with it in the balance. For there are maids that
are more charmed by the fame than by the face of their lovers; who go not by the looks, but
by the mind, and whom naught but regard for a man's spirit can kindle to pledge their own troth.
Now Hagbard, going to Denmark with the sons of Sigar, gained speech of their sister without
their knowledge, and in the end induced her to pledge her word to him that she would secretly
become his mistress. Afterwards, when the waiting-women happened to be comparing the honourable
deeds of the nobles, she preferred Hakon to Hildigisl, declaring that the latter had nothing
to praise but his looks, while in the case of the other a wrinkled visage was outweighed by
a choice spirit. Not content with this plain kind of praise, she is said to have sung as follows:

"This man lacks fairness, but shines with foremost courage, measuring his features by his force.

"For the lofty soul redeems the shortcoming of harsh looks, and conquers the body's blemish.

"His look flashes with spirit, his face, notable in its very harshness, delights in fierceness.

"He who strictly judges character praises not the mind for the fair hue, but rather the complexion
for the mind.

"This man is not prized for beauty, but for brave daring and war-won honour.

"While the other is commended by his comely head and radiant countenance and crest of lustrous
locks.

"Vile is the empty grace of beauty, self-confounded the deceptive pride of comeliness.

"Valour and looks are swayed by different inclinations: one lasts on, the other perishes.

"Empty red and white brings in vice, and is frittered away little by little by the lightly
gliding years;

"But courage plants firmer the hearts devoted to it, and does not slip and straightway fall.

"The voice of the multitude is beguiled by outward good, and forsakes the rule of right;

"But I praise virtue at a higher rate, and scorn the grace of comeliness."

This utterance fell on the ears of the bystanders in such a way, that they thought she praised
Hagbard under the name of Hakon. And Hildigisl, vexed that she preferred Hagbard to himself,
bribed a certain blind man, Bolwis, to bring the sons of Sigar and the sons of Hamund to turn
their friendship into hatred. For King Sigar had been used to transact almost all affairs by
the advice of two old men, one of whom was Bolwis. The temper of these two men was so different,
that one used to reconcile folk who were at feud, while the other loved to sunder in hatred
those who were bound by friendship, and by estranging folk to fan pestilent quarrels.

So Bolwis began by reviling the sons of Hamund to the sons of Sigar, in lying slanders, declaring
that they never used to preserve the bonds of fellowship loyally, and that they must be restrained
by war rather than by league. Thus the alliance of the young men was broken through; and while
Hagbard was far away, the sons of Sigar, Alf and Alger, made an attack, and Helwin and Hamund
were destroyed by the harbour which is called Hamund's Bay. Hagbard then came up with fresh
forces to avenge his brothers, and destroyed them in battle. Hildigisl slunk off with a spear
through both buttocks, which was the occasion for a jeer at the Teutons, since the ugliness
of the blow did not fail to brand it with disgrace.

Afterwards Hagbard dressed himself in woman's attire, and, as though he had not wronged Sigar's
daughter by slaying her brothers, went back to her alone, trusting in the promise he had from
her, and feeling more safe in her loyalty than alarmed by reason of his own misdeed. Thus does
lust despise peril. And, not to lack a pretext for his journey, he gave himself out as a fighting-maid
of Hakon, saying that he took an embassy from him to Sigar. And when he was taken to bed at
night among the handmaids, and the woman who washed his feet were wiping them, they asked him
why he had such hairy legs, and why his hands were not at all soft to touch, he answered:

"What wonder that the soft hollow of my foot should harden, and that long hairs should stay
on my shaggy leg, when the sand has so often smitten my soles beneath, and the briars have
caught me in mid-step?

"Now I scour the forest with leaping, now the waters with running. Now the sea, now the earth,
now the wave is my path.

"Nor could my breast, shut in bonds of steel, and wont to be beaten with lance and missile,
ever have been soft to the touch, as with you who are covered by the mantle or the smooth gown.

"Not the distaff or the wool-frails, but spears dripping from the slaughter, have served for
our handling."

Signe did not hesitate to back up his words with like dissembling, and replied that it was
natural that hands which dealt more in wounds than wools, and in battle than in tasks of the
house should show the hardness that befitted their service; and that, unenfeebled with the
pliable softness of women, they should not feel smooth to the touch of others. For they were
hardened partly by the toils of war, partly by the habit of seafaring. For, said she, the warlike
handmaid of Hakon did not deal in woman's business, but had been wont to bring her right hand
blood-stained with hurling spears and flinging missiles. It was no wonder, therefore, if her
soles were hardened by the immense journeys she had gone; and that, when the shores she had
scoured so often had bruised them with their rough and broken shingle, they should toughen
in a horny stiffness, and should not feel soft to the touch like theirs, whose steps never
strayed, but who were forever cooped within the confines of the palace. Hagbard received her
as his bedfellow, under plea that he was to have the couch of honour; and, amid their converse
of mutual delight, he addressed her slowly in such words as these:

"If thy father takes me and gives me to bitter death, wilt thou ever, when I am dead, forget
so strong a troth, and again seek the marriage-plight?

"For if the chance should fall that way, I can hope for no room for pardon; nor will the father
who is to avenge his sons spare or have pity.

"For I stripped thy brothers of their power on the sea and slew them; and now, unknown to thy
father, as though I had done naught before counter to his will, I hold thee in the couch we share.

"Say, then, my one love, what manner of wish wilt thou show when thou lackest the accustomed
embrace?"

Signe answered:

"Trust me, dear; I wish to die with thee, if fate brings thy turn to perish first, and not
to prolong my span of life at all, when once dismal death has cast thee to the tomb.

"For if thou chance to close thy eyes for ever, a victim to the maddened attack of the men-at-arms;--by
whatsoever doom thy breath be cut off, by sword or disease, by sea or soil, I forswear every
wanton and corrupt flame, and vow myself to a death like thine; that they who were bound by
one marriage-union may be embraced in one and the same punishment. Nor will I quit this man,
though I am to feel the pains of death; I have resolved he is worthy of my love who gathered
the first kisses of my mouth, and had the first fruits of my delicate youth. I think that no
vow will be surer than this, if speech of woman have any loyalty at all."

This speech so quickened the spirit of Hagbard, that he found more pleasure in her promise
than peril in his own going away (to his death). The serving-women betrayed him; and when Sigar's
men-at-arms attacked him, he defended himself long and stubbornly, and slew many of them in
the doorway. But at last he was taken, and brought before the assembly, and found the voices
of the people divided over him. For very many said that he should be punished for so great
an offence; but Bilwis, the brother of Bolwis, and others, conceived a better judgment, and
advised that it would be better to use his stout service than to deal with him too ruthlessly.
Then Bolwis came forward and declared that it was evil advice which urged the king to pardon
when he ought to take vengeance, and to soften with unworthy compassion his righteous impulse
to anger. For how could Sigar, in the case of this man, feel any desire to spare or pity him,
when he had not only robbed him of the double comfort of his sons, but had also bestained him
with the insult of deflowering his daughter? The greater part of the assembly voted for this
opinion; Hagbard was condemned, and a gallows-tree planted to receive him. Hence it came about
that he who at first had hardly one sinister voice against him was punished with general harshness.
Soon after the queen handed him a cup, and, bidding him assuage his thirst, vexed him with
threats after this manner:

"Now, insolent Hagbard, whom the whole assembly has pronounced worthy of death, now to quench
thy thirst thou shalt give thy lips liquor to drink in a cup of horn.

"Wherefore cast away fear, and, at this last hour of thy life, taste with bold lips the deadly
goblet;

"That, having drunk it, thou mayst presently land by the dwellings of those below, passing
into the sequestered palace of stern Dis, giving thy body to the gibbet and thy spirit to Orcus."

Then the young man took the cup offered him, and is said to have made answer as follows:

"With this hand, wherewith I cut off thy twin sons, I will take my last taste, yea the draught
of the last drink.

"Now not unavenged shall I go to the Elysian regions, not unchastising to the stern ghosts.
For these men have first been shut in the dens of Tartarus by a slaughter wrought by my endeavours.
This right hand was wet with blood that was yours, this hand robbed thy children of the years
of their youth, children whom thy womb brought to light; but the deadly sword spared it not
then. Infamous woman, raving in spirit, hapless, childless mother, no years shall restore to
thee the lost, no time and no day whatsoever shall save thy child from the starkness of death,
or redeem him!"

Thus he avenged the queen's threats of death by taunting her with the youths whom he had slain;
and, flinging back the cup at her, drenched her face with the sprinkled wine.

Meantime Signe asked her weeping women whether they could endure to bear her company in the
things which she purposed. They promised that they would carry out and perform themselves whatsoever
their mistress should come to wish, and their promise was loyally kept. Then, drowned in tears,
she said that she wished to follow in death the only partner of her bed that she had ever had;
and ordered that, as soon as the signal had been given from a place of watch, torches should
be put to the room, then that halters should be made out of their robes; and to these they
should proffer their throats to be strangled, thrusting away the support to the feet. They
agreed, and that they might blench the less at death, she gave them a draught of wine. After
this Hagbard was led to the hill, which afterwards took its name from him, to be hanged. Then,
to test the loyalty of his true love, he told the executioners to hang up his mantle, saying
that it would be a pleasure to him if he could see the likeness of his approaching death rehearsed
in some way. The request was granted; and the watcher on the outlook, thinking that the thing
was being done to Hagbard, reported what she saw to the maidens who were shut within the palace.
They quickly fired the house, and thrusting away the wooden support under their feet, gave
their necks to the noose to be writhen. So Hagbard, when he saw the palace wrapped in fire,
and the familiar chamber blazing, said that he felt more joy from the loyalty of his mistress
than sorrow at his approaching death. He also charged the bystanders to do him to death, witnessing
how little he made of his doom by a song like this:

"Swiftly, O warriors! Let me be caught and lifted into the air. Sweet, O my bride! Is it for
me to die when thou hast gone.

"I perceive the crackling and the house ruddy with flames; and the love, long-promised, declares
our troth.

"Behold, thy covenant is fulfilled with no doubtful vows, since thou sharest my life and my
destruction.

"We shall have one end, one bond after our troth, and somewhere our first love will live on.

"Happy am I, that have deserved to have joy of such a consort, and not to go basely alone to
the gods of Tartarus!

"Then let the knot gripe the midst of the throat; nought but pleasure the last doom shall bring,

"Since there remains a sure hope of the renewal of love, and a death which will soon have joys
of its own.

"Either country is sweet; in both worlds shall be held in honour the repose of our souls together,
our equal truth in love,

"For, see now, I welcome the doom before me; since not even among the shades does very love
suffer the embrace of its partner to perish." And as he spoke the executioners strangled him.
And, that none may think that all traces of antiquity have utterly disappeared, a proof of
the aforesaid event is afforded by local marks yet existing; for the killing of Hagbard gave
his name to the stead; and not far from the town of Sigar there is a place to be seen, where
a mound a little above the level, with the appearance of a swelling in the ground, looks like
an ancient homestead. Moreover, a man told Absalon that he had seen a beam found in the spot,
which a countryman struck with his ploughshare as he burrowed into the clods.

