It consists of a good strong portfolio, or case, containing a number of patterns for doll clothes,
printed on heavy strong paper, so that they may be cut out and used over and over again. Each
pattern is in a strong envelope, so that it may be kept separate, and on each envelope is a
picture of the garment, to aid in putting it together. With the pattern is a pamphlet giving
(in German) full and careful directions.

The chart is the 1897 edition of Dr. Berghaus' celebrated "Chart of the World," published by
Justus Perthes, Gotha. Size is about 40×62 inches, mounted on linen, and folded in a case;
or as a wall-map with rollers.

In Europe, this chart is to be found in almost every railroad or steamship office, as well
as in schools, business offices, and private houses, where it is used for general reference.
Besides being the latest and most complete map of the world, with the very latest information
as to boundaries, it contains ocean currents, direction of trade-winds, steamship and sailing
vessel routes, coaling-stations, and railroads (even the new trans-Siberian railroad, about
which we wrote in a recent number) of all countries; and much other valuable information.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Current History=

       *       *       *       *       *

The Maine affair is still the most important item of current history.

The Board of Inquiry has returned to Havana and is still carrying on its investigation, and
until this body makes an official report to the United States Government, we should, as Captain
Sigsbee telegraphed the night of the explosion, suspend judgment.

There has been no way of ascertaining the results of the Board's inquiries. The testimony of
eye-witnesses of the disaster, sailors and divers, was heard on board the Mangrove, anchored
near the wreck. A number of photographs of the Maine have been taken under water, by a man
employed by the Board. These photographs are deemed very important, as the Board can get a
much clearer idea of the position of the débris than they could from the descriptions of the
divers. The belief is widely entertained that the Board will report that the disaster was caused
by an explosion from the outside. How the two countries will act after such a report is delivered,
can only be surmised. Of course, Spain will make her own thorough investigation; the divers
have already been permitted to examine the wreck to a certain extent. It is very hard to believe
that the Spanish Government had anything to do with the explosion. Individuals, acting for
themselves and not in touch with the Government, probably "assassinated" the boat--if she was
"assassinated." In that case, the United States can with justice claim an indemnity.

If, however, it can be proved that Spanish officers knew that there was a mine under the Maine,
and did not take the trouble to tell Captain Sigsbee, the United States would undoubtedly consider
it a casus belli (that is, a cause of war), unless Spain promptly agrees to make good the loss.

As we told you last week, it is said that no dead fish were found in Havana harbor after the
explosion. Another significant report is, that there was no large wave directly after the explosion
took place. If these reports are true, they would almost preclude the possibility of its having
been an outside explosion.

It was reported that Weyler, while Captain-General of Cuba, had caused Havana harbor to be
filled with mines and torpedoes, and that he alone had the plans.

In a letter to a New York paper, however, General Weyler absolutely denies this, and he writes
that he has had nothing to do with the mines and torpedoes in Havana harbor.

One sensational report printed in a New York paper was that, shortly before the explosion took
place, the guard on the Maine noticed a very distinct ripple on the water, as if a small boat
was being propelled close to the vessel.

Many similar reports have reached the United States, and it is hard to know what to believe.
One of the New York papers has been telling so many lies that the Government was compelled
to stop this particular journal from sending any messages at all over the cable from Havana
to Key West. This paper then sent its news to Europe, and from there cabled to New York. Over
this circuitous route came most marvellous tales, and it is needless to say that most of them
were lies pure and simple. The editor of one enterprising journal is reported to have wagered
$50,000 that he will cause war between the United States and Spain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wounded sailors from the Maine have all been transferred from Havana to Dry Tortugas. Dry
Tortugas is an island east of Key West. These sailors say that the Spaniards treated them with
the utmost kindness.

The first body from the Maine was brought to Key West last Thursday. All flags in the city
were at half-mast, and although the body was that of an unidentified seaman, it was given the
burial of a naval hero. Captain McCalla, of the Marblehead, with Fleet Chaplain Lee Boyce and
a guard of honor of forty sailors, received the body, and it was borne in state through the
quiet streets of the city to the graveyard on the outskirts. The sailors were drawn up facing
the grave; the chaplain read the service, and the body was lowered to its resting-place. The
simple ceremony was then ended by the ship's bugler sounding the recall, and the guard at "shoulder
arms" marched back to the pier.

It is reported that the uninjured survivors of the Maine feel very much distressed over orders
they are said to have received from the Navy Department. All but five of the men are ordered
to report for service on the ships of the fleet at Key West. Naturally, they are desirous to
get to their friends in the North, and an effort will be made to induce the Navy Department
to allow them to do so.

It seems that, of the men killed on the Maine, a great number were natives of foreign countries.
The governments of these countries have demanded an explanation of the disaster, and in case
it is found that the explosion was due to faults of construction or carelessness, an indemnity
will undoubtedly be demanded; or, if Spain is responsible for the disaster, she will be called
upon to pay this indemnity.

This news created great excitement. Our Government promptly cabled to Minister Woodford, refusing
to recall General Lee, and Spain officially retracted the request, and the incident was practically
closed.

A minister exercises his functions only by permission of the country to which he is sent. If
at any time that country has reason to object to his presence, it can demand his recall, or,
by withdrawing his exequatur, make him at once a private American citizen, and nothing more.

An exequatur is the written official recognition of a consul or minister, which is issued by
the government to which he is accredited, authorizing him to exercise his powers in the place
to which he is sent. We have already explained, in connection with the De Lome incident, how
a country may dismiss a diplomatic representative.

If Spain had demanded Lee's recall, or dismissed him for any reason which she considered sufficient,
there would have been no just ground for offence. It would not even have been necessary for
her to explain her reasons.

Spain's action in intimating that she desired the recall was a courteous way of putting the
matter. President McKinley, in refusing to consider it, took a wise course, for the recall
of General Lee at this critical time might have added to the strained relations existing between
the countries; besides, General Lee is so thoroughly acquainted with the situation in Cuba
that it is to the best interest of this country to retain him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reports from Cuba as to the insurgents' cause have this week been perceptibly fewer. It is
known that a number of filibustering expeditions have landed, and the Cubans feel very much
elated. They say that the Maine disaster has helped them in this country, for it has increased
the feeling against Spain.

The condition of the reconcentrados is terrible. You will remember that General Weyler issued
a decree that the farmers with their families, and the people who lived out in the country,
should leave their homes and come into the towns. This was done because it was believed that
these people were supplying the insurgents with food and aiding them in other ways. Of course,
when these poor people were herded together in and around the cities and towns, a great many
of them had no possible way of making a living. Starvation has resulted, and thousands of these
reconcentrados, as they are called, are dying. It is estimated that there are very nearly 300,000
of them, and what food and clothing they need must be given to them. The Spaniards, as can
be imagined, have not been very charitably disposed toward these poor people, and the United
States has generously come to the rescue. Tons of food and clothing have already been sent
to the island, and almost every day we read of some vessel starting for Cuba with supplies
for these unfortunate people.

The United States Government has deemed the matter important enough to despatch two gunboats,
the Montgomery and Nashville, with provisions to Matanzas and Sagua la Grande, Cuba.

The supplies have been sent to Key West, to be forwarded from there in the vessels selected.

Spain, through her representative at Washington, Señor du Bosc, objected to the use of war-vessels
for this purpose, and it was at first decided to send the supplies in the despatch-boat Fern,
in many respects better fitted for such a purpose. Finally, however, orders were sent to Key
West to carry out the original plan.

That Spain objects to the visits of our war-ships to these Cuban ports may lead to further
complications, for with equal reason she can exclude our ships from Havana harbor, and this
would prevent us from protecting our own citizens who are in Havana.

The fact that relief expeditions are sent by us is in itself an acknowledgment on our part
that we either do not consider Spain able to care for these poor people, or that we think that
she wilfully refuses to do so. Spain could settle the question at once by properly providing
for them. This, however, she has not attempted to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

March 7th a bill was introduced by Chairman Cannon, of the Appropriations Committee, entitled,
"Making Appropriations for the National Defence."

It was as follows: "That there is hereby appropriated out of any money in the treasury, not
otherwise appropriated for the national defence, and for each and every purpose connected therewith,
to be expended at the discretion of the President, and to remain available until June 30, 1899,
fifty million dollars."

This bill, it was reported, was the outcome of a conference held at the White House. The situation
was considered so serious that it was necessary that an immense appropriation should be made
for national defence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Talk of the United States buying Cuba has revived during the last week. The Spaniards seem
to think better of this than they did some months ago, and it is reported that one paper in
Madrid has come out in favor of selling the island to this country.

It is a question whether it would be wise for this country to buy Cuba. It would involve the
expenditure of $300,000,000 or $400,000,000; and, again, the people who live on the island
might not be a desirable addition to the voting population of the United States. Spain has
misunderstood this country in regard to the purpose of our proposed intervention in Cuba. She
believes that we would intervene in order to obtain possession of the island. The truth is,
that the only reason for our stopping the war would be for the sake of mercy, for the war that
is going on in Cuba is uncivilized and horrible.

About twenty-five hundred men have been sent to Cuba recently as reinforcements to the Spanish
army, and Spain is putting forth the greatest efforts to stop the revolution before the rainy
season sets in. Five torpedo-boats are to be towed from Madrid to Havana. It will be unfortunate
for Spain if she has no better luck towing these boats than she had with her immense dry-dock,
which we told you about several weeks ago.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Vizcaya, which left New York on February 25th, arrived in Havana safely. The Almirante
Oquendo, a sister ship of the Vizcaya, has also reached Havana.

The Oquendo is a very powerful vessel, 340 feet long, 65 feet wide, and can steam 20 knots
an hour. She is said to have cost $3,000,000. She left the Canary Islands on February 15th,
the day the Maine blew up.

The men on board, of course, had not heard of the catastrophe, and when they saw the wreck
they could not imagine what it meant. With these vessels and the Alphonso XII. in Havana harbor,
it is said the war fever has attacked the city, and the Spaniards there are anxious to fight
the United States.

       *       *       *       *       *

Conflicting reports have reached us as to whether Spain has bought war-ships in England or
not during the last week. It is, however, reported on good authority that Spain has negotiated
a large loan in London; the amount is not known. Several vessels have been in course of construction
for Brazil and Chile, and now that they are almost completed, it is said that the Spanish Government,
by agreeing to pay immense sums, is attempting to secure them. It does not seem likely that
Chile would give up a battle-ship just now, as the relations between that country and the Argentine
Republic are very strained. There is no doubt, however, but that Spain is increasing the efficiency
of her navy, which is beginning to assume very formidable proportions.

The United States is also busy putting the older ships in good order, and rushing the work
on those being constructed. The Government, it is reported, has the details of construction
of many boats now building on the other side. One report was that the United States had an
option on every ship being built in Europe, except, of course, vessels being built for Spain.
This report, however, has not been confirmed. For the United States to have the option on a
ship means that no other nation will be allowed to buy that ship unless the United States decides
that she does not wish to have it herself.

The Spaniards are disturbed at the news of an American squadron at Hongkong, on the coast of
China. If you will look on your map, you will find that the Philippine Islands are not very
far from Hongkong. These islands belong to Spain, and in the event of a war between the United
States and Spain, great damage could be done by this fleet.

       *       *       *       *       *

The monitor Terror has arrived in New York harbor from Hampton Roads. This boat is 249 feet
long, 56 feet wide, and can steam 12 knots an hour. The Puritan and Miantonomoh are two boats
in the same class as the Terror, and for harbor defence they are unsurpassed. Very little surface
is exposed to the fire of the enemy, as they are very low in the water; so low, that often,
when in a sea-way, the waves wash over everything but the smoke-stacks and the turrets, so
you can see how very difficult it is to do any damage to these formidable boats. They are all
provided with rams. A ram is a very heavily reinforced projecting bow. Many war-vessels are
built this way, so that they may run down and sink their antagonists in time of war. You will
remember that the famous Confederate ram Merrimac employed this mode of attack as a last resort,
in her famous fight with the Monitor during the Civil War. She was not successful, for she
did not strike the Monitor squarely. With their immense weight these monitors could pierce
with their rams the armor of almost any ship and sink it.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Wednesday, February 23d, M. Zola was found guilty of publishing a letter criticising the
Government for its conduct in the Esterhazy court-martial and declaring the innocence of Albert
Dreyfus. This letter was published in the Paris Aurore, whose editor is M. Perreux. M. Zola
was sentenced to one year's imprisonment, and was also fined 3,000 francs, or about $600. As
we told you in our last number, M. Perreux was condemned to serve four months in prison and
pay 4,000 francs. In summing up--that is, in making his final address to the court--M. Labori,
counsel of M. Zola, made touching references to the unhappiness of the Dreyfus family, the
courage of the wife of the prisoner, and the letter from the disgraced man in September, 1897,
protesting his innocence. The remarks made a great sensation in the court-room, many people
weeping.

The jury was out but a very short time, and returned with the sentence as stated above, which
is the maximum penalty for the crime for which Zola was arrested. Civilized nations feel very
sorry for France, for she has lowered herself in the eyes of the world. It is almost universally
believed that Zola proved his charges, and outside of France Dreyfus is believed to be innocent.

It would seem that the French Government is bound to uphold the decision of the court-martial
at any cost, so as not to be compelled to recall Dreyfus and have a new trial. It is deemed
necessary to suppress the Dreyfus agitation.

Four newspapers in Paris, including the Aurore, have been notified that unless they cease their
attacks they will be prosecuted by the Government. Many correspondents have been warned to
write in different vein about the case. Colonel Picquart, as we told you last week, has been
obliged to leave the army, and the Government has dismissed M. Le Blois, Perreux's counsel,
and one of Zola's witnesses, who was a deputy mayor in Paris.

We think you would like to hear something about Devil's Island, the place where Albert Dreyfus
is confined. This island is one of a group, twenty-seven miles northwest of Cayenne in French
Guiana. Get your map of South America, and you will be able to put your finger on the spot.
In 1852 the French Government established a penal colony on these islands. A penal colony is
one formed of convicts sent out from the mother country. Many of these colonies have proved
successful, particularly the ones where the prisoners are allowed to work and build up their
own homes for themselves. Australia was settled in this way, and it has developed wonderfully.

From reports, Dreyfus is having a very hard time on Devil's Island. He is not allowed to speak
to any one, and lives in absolute solitude. It is said that his hair has turned grey, and his
confinement in other ways is aging him rapidly. He is allowed to write, but his letters simply
declare his innocence over and over again. It was rumored some time ago that Dreyfus had escaped,
and since then the French Government has ordered the officials of the convict settlement to
telegraph every day to Paris the fact that the prisoner is safely under guard.

Political prisoners are usually allowed to have their wives with them, but, although Mme. Dreyfus
has made strong efforts, France will not allow her to be with her husband.

There is a man living in Rome who is said to have been imprisoned on Devil's Island for several
years. His name is Gen. Paolo Tibaldi, who was sentenced to life imprisonment on the island
for conspiring against Napoleon III. He says that when he was there the island was a bare rock
without a tree or a blade of grass, and the heat of the sun was terrible. The provisions supplied
daily by the Government were a pound and a half of the worst kind of bread, for each convict,
a piece of old meat or salt fat, beans or rice, a little oil, and also a kind of spirits called
tafla. The general claims that the treatment to which the captives were subjected was most
severe. They were chained by the keepers, fed on bread and water for months, and beaten with
ropes. Five thousand dollars was raised in France to rescue General Tibaldi, but that only
made matters worse, and he suffered added torments. Finally, public opinion in France combined
with the press in his behalf, and the General was freed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The trouble in West Africa promises to become such an important item of current history that
it might be well to look into it more deeply, and try and get a clear idea of the difficulty.

France undoubtedly wishes to have dominion over the countries lying between her western and
eastern possessions in Africa. On the west coast she owns the Senegal River and the town of
St. Louis. The Central Soudan also belongs to France, and on the east coast, opposite Aden,
the two towns of Obok and Tanjurrah fly the French flag. The problem has been to acquire the
lands intervening, so as to make one unbroken line. You can see what an advantage this would
be; for, with the Nile on one side and the Niger on the other, it would be comparatively easy
to ship valuable products from the interior to the markets of the world.

Since 1880, France has spent great sums of money in trying to bridge over the space lying between
her possessions, and step by step her empire has pushed its way from the Senegal to the Niger.

England had been confined to the coast. She owned Sierra Leone, the Gambia Settlements, the
Colony of Lagos, and the Niger Protectorate. The Royal Niger Company owned the hinterland of
Lagos, which means the country back of Lagos, and this is the only hinterland that England
did own. France, owning the country back of the English Colonies, effectually checks their
development.

Until 1890 there was a dispute between England and France about their West African possessions.
In 1890 there was a difficulty about territory on the Lower Niger, and this was settled for
a little while by a treaty which marked out the British "spheres of influence" by a line drawn
from Say on the Niger to Lake Chad. Say is directly west of Sokoto, and you can easily find
Lake Chad on your map, for it is a very large lake. To the south, the British were supposed
to control "all that properly belongs to the kingdom of Sokoto."

If France has invaded this kingdom they have broken the treaty, and they are in the wrong.

On the other bank of the Niger, England, through the Royal Niger Company, has made treaties
with the native chiefs, and thus gained a good foothold.

In 1893, France conquered and annexed Dahomey, which is on the coast; but England controlled
the hinterland of Dahomey through the treaties her company had made with the chiefs. France
chose to set aside these treaties, and said that, having been made with savages, they were
not valid. During the last three years she has sent out expeditious from St. Louis and Dahomey,
and gained a great deal of territory which England believes she ought to control.

So that is the way the matter is at present. France has the possession of countries for which
England can show her treaties.

For the benefit of commerce, it would be well that victory should lie with England, for she
would open the country to the commerce of the world, while France alone would benefit should
she control this rich land.

       *       *       *       *       *

We told you two weeks ago of the change of Presidents in the Republic of Venezuela.

The new President, Gen. Ignacio Andrade, starts his administration with the prospect of serious
trouble in his country.

The State Department at Washington was notified, shortly after General Andrade's election,
that a revolution had broken out at Valencia. This is a town two hundred miles west of Caracas,
and situated in the mountains, which, starting here, extend down the whole western coast of
South America.

The cause of the revolution is not known, but it is supposed to be on account of the succession
of General Andrade.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Chinese puzzle still remains unsolved.

Mr. Labouchere, the editor of London Truth, has some very good ideas to offer; he says: "What,
in the name of goodness, have we got to quarrel about in China? Russia is striving to get an
access to the Pacific which will not be ice-bound in winter. It is a reasonable desire, and
will not hurt us. Russia is not our commercial rival, and is not likely to be. Germany has
obtained a pied-à-terre (foothold) in China. On the part of a great commercial power this,
also, is not unreasonable. It may not suit us, but it is considerably less than we have got,
and we have no right to object. Considering the position which we have so long occupied, and
still occupy, in China, this snarling and blustering at the first appearance of a stranger
on the scene is more offensive and contemptible than the conduct of the dog in the manger."

Commenting on what Sir Michael Hicks-Beach said in reference to keeping treaty ports open in
case of war, Labouchere says: "Having heard a cock crow on a neighboring dunghill, he thought
it necessary that the majestic voice of Britain should be heard also."

It was reported in our last number that England and Germany have agreed to combine and lend
China the $80,000,000 which she is to pay to Japan.

It is not known whether Japan will release her hold on Wei-Hai-Wei even if she gets this money.

England, in consideration of this loan, would certainly expect favors from China as regards
the Yangtse-kiang Valley, and Germany would undoubtedly expect to have no more trouble with
China because of her seizure of Kiao-Chou. Many other concessions will undoubtedly be demanded,
and we may be sure that Russia will have something to say.

It is also reported that the Government at Pekin will try and settle its difficulties by allotting
"spheres of influence" to the great powers. This was done in West Africa, where it is causing
much trouble between France and England. The Chinese evidently do not realize how elastic these
"spheres" are.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is to be wondered whether or not Emperor Kuang Hsu, of China, realizes the danger that threatens
his kingdom. He is known as the Son of Heaven and Brother of the Sun. These titles would seem
to indicate that he is a person of great character and capable of ruling the Empire. The truth
is, he is a very weak young man, and the country is really ruled by the Empress Dowager. She
is sixty-three years old, and for many years has controlled every action of the Emperor. She
has supervised his education, selected his wives, and really held the Emperor squarely under
her thumb.

The Emperor is securely hidden away behind the thick walls of his palace, and his private quarters
are known as the Purple Forbidden City. Very few people have set eyes upon the monarch; and
among Europeans and Americans, only ambassadors are permitted to see him.

He is said to have a very ugly temper, and to do foolish things when he cannot have his own
way. This must happen very often, for the Empress Dowager sees that his way is made hers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Russia has followed Germany's example, and demanded from China a lease of Port Arthur and Talien-Wan,
granting to her all sovereign rights over these ports for the same period and on the same conditions
as in the case of Germany at Kiao-Chou Bay.

At first, China was disposed to refuse this demand; but Russia threatened to move troops into
Manchuria if the demand was not acceded to, and China, making a virtue of necessity, yielded.

This lease gives to Russia what she has so long wanted--that is, a port on the Asiatic coast
which is not frozen up in winter. She now has her "sphere of influence" located in a way most
satisfactory to herself.

If China leases many more ports to the great powers she may secure the materials for a "concert
of powers" which will prove as useful to her as it has been to the Sultan of Turkey.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is reported that there are 10,000 men on the trail between Skaguay and Dyea in Alaska.

The rush is now at its height, for now that the warmer weather is coming, the perils of the
Klondike will be fewer for some months.

Some very thrilling tales have reached us from the Pacific coast, although the newspapers are
very reticent about publishing reports of accidents. It would seem that some agency is suppressing
accounts of ill-starred ventures. Certainly, the papers hold out the golden possibilities of
the trip, while the dangers and privations are kept well in the background.

Thousands of men are setting out for the gold country to-day. Every small town and village
of the United States has its quota of Argonauts, and they are pouring west to take ship for
the Klondike. In Greek mythology there is a story about a man named Jason, who set out to find
the Golden Fleece. The ship he sailed in was named the Argo. In 1849, when the people of the
United States had the gold fever so badly, and the rush to California was very much like that
to the Klondike to-day, the men who started from the East to go to the Pacific coast by ship
were called Argonauts. Afterward it became a common term, and all people setting out for the
gold-mines were designated by this title.

       *       *       *       *       *

The reindeer which were bought in Scandinavia by the United States for use in Alaska, and shipped
to New York, are to be sold. They were to have been used for relief expeditions, but it has
been found out that supplies are more abundant in the Klondike than was first reported.

There are five hundred and thirty-seven of these reindeer, and it is to be doubted whether
they will sell for as much money as they have cost. To buy them in Lapland, Norway, and Sweden
involved an expenditure of $50,000, and to bring them to this country was a very expensive
undertaking.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are more rumors of trouble in India. In and about Bombay there is a strong feeling of
discontent among the natives because of the plague measures. You will remember what was written
in July last in THE GREAT ROUND WORLD about the curious customs of the different races in India;
how they refuse to depart from these customs for fear of losing caste, which they hold more
dear than life itself.

The great Sepoy Mutiny was partly occasioned by the use of cartridges which were thought to
have lard on them; from these cartridges the native soldiers had to remove the ends before
putting them in the muskets, and they said that it was intended that they should bite off this
larded end and thus lose caste.

Many of these natives will not drink milk, others will not touch lard, and none of them must
eat food prepared or handled by certain persons.

In order to stop the spread of the plague, certain rules had to be made, and it is these rules
which cause so many outbreaks among the natives.

