"Certainly, fifty years old, but stout and healthy; none of your spindle-shanked dandies--your
Stauntons"--

But Staunton smokes cigars, and not Dutch pipes."

"I give that up. For Miss Margaret's sake, I'll burn my nose and mouth with those damned stumps
of cigars."

"Drinks no whisky," continued I. "He is president of a temperance society."

"The devil fly away with him!" growled Moreland; "I wouldn't give up my whisky for all the
girls in the world."

"If you don't, she'll always be fainting away," replied I, laughing.

"Ah! It's because I talked of the Monongahela that she began with her hystericals, and went
away for all the evening! That's where the wind sits, is it? Well, you may depend I ain't to
be done out of my grog at any rate."

And he backed his assertion with an oath, swallowing off the contents of his glass by way of
a clincher. We sat joking and chatting till past midnight during which time I flattered myself
that I gave evidence of considerable diplomatic talents. As we were returning home, however,
Richards doubted whether I had not driven the old boy rather too hard

"No matter," replied I, "if I have only succeeded in ridding poor Margaret of him."

Cool, calculating Richards shook his head.

"I don't know what may come of it," said he; "but I do not think you are likely to find much
gratitude for your interference."

The next day was taken up in arranging matters of business consequent on the arrival of Richards.
At least ten times I tried to go and see Arthurine, but was always prevented by something or
other; and it was past tea-time when I at last got to the Bowsends' house. I found Margaret
in the drawing-room, deep in a new novel.

"Where is Arthurine?" I enquired.

"At the theatre, with mamma and Mr Moreland," was the answer.

"At the theatre!" repeated I in astonishment. They were playing Tom and Jerry, a favourite
piece with the enlightened Kentuckians. I had seen the first scene or two at the New Orleans
theatre, and had had quite enough of it.

"That really is sacrificing herself!" said I, considerably out of humour.

"The noble girl!" exclaimed Margaret. "Mr Moreland came to tea, and urged us so much to go"--

"That she could not help going, to be bored and disgusted for a couple of hours."

"She went for my sake," said Margaret sentimentally. "Mamma would have one of us go."

"Yes, that is it," thought I. Jealousy would have been ridiculous. He fifty years old, she
seventeen. I left the house, and went to find Richards.

"What! Back so early?" cried he.

"She is gone to the theatre with her mamma and Moreland."

Richards shook his head.

"You put a wasp's nest into the old fellow's brain-pan yesterday," said he. "Take care you
do not get stung yourself."

"I should like to see how she looks by his side," said I.

"Well, I will go with you. The sooner you are cured the better. But only for ten minutes."

There was certainly no temptation to remain longer in that atmosphere of whisky and tobacco
fumes. It was at the Bowery theatre. The light swam as though seen through a thick fog; and
a perfect shower of orange and apple peel, and even less agreeable things, rained down from
the galleries. Tom and Jerry were in all their glory. I looked round the boxes, and soon saw
the charming Arthurine, apparently perfectly comfortable, chatting with old Moreland as gravely,
and looking as demure and self-possessed, as if she had been a married woman of thirty.

"That is a prudent young lady," said Richards; "she has an eye to the dollars, and would marry
Old Hickory himself, spite of whisky and tobacco pipe, if he had more money, and were to ask her."

I said nothing.

"If you weren't such an infatuated fool," continued my plain-spoken friend, I would say to
you, let her take her own way, and the day after to-morrow we will leave New York."

"One week more," said I, with an uneasy feeling about the heart.

At seven the next evening I entered what had been my Elysium, but was now, little by little,
becoming my Tartarus. Again I found Margaret alone over a romance. "And Arthurine?" enquired
I, in a voice that might perhaps have been steadier.

"She is gone with mamma and Mr Moreland to hear Miss Fanny Wright."

"To hear Miss Fanny Wright! the atheist, the revolutionist! What a mad fancy! Who would ever
have dreamed of such a thing!"

This Miss Fanny Wright was a famous lecturess, of the Owenite school, who was shunned like
a pestilence by the fashionable world of New York.

"Mr Moreland," answered Margaret, "said so much about her eloquence that Arthurine's curiosity
was roused."

"Indeed!" replied I.

"Oh! you do not know what a noble girl she is. For her sister she would sacrifice her life.
My only hope is in her."

I snatched up my hat, and hurried out of the house.

The next morning I got up, restless and uneasy; and eleven o'clock had scarcely struck when
I reached the Bowsends' house. This time both sisters were at home; and as I entered the drawing-room,
Arthurine advanced to meet me with a beautiful smile upon her face. There was nevertheless
a something in the expression of her countenance that made me start. I pressed her hand. She
looked tenderly at me.

"I hope you have been amusing yourself these last two days," said I after a moment's pause.

"Novelty has a certain charm," replied Arthurine. "Yet I certainly never expected to become
a disciple of Miss Fanny Wright," added she, laughing.

"Really! I should have thought the transition from Tom and Jerry rather an easy one."

"A little more respect for Tom and Jerry, whom we patronize--that is to say, Mr Moreland and
our high mightiness," replied Arthurine, trying, as I fancied, to conceal a certain confusion
of manner under a laugh.

"I should scarcely have thought my Arthurine would have become a party to such a conspiracy
against good taste," replied I gravely.

"My Arthurine!" repeated she, laying a strong accent on the pronoun possessive. "Only see what
rights and privileges the gentleman is usurping! We live in a free country, I believe?"

There was a mixture of jest and earnest in her charming countenance. I looked enquiringly at her.

"Do you know," cried she, "I have taken quite a fancy to Moreland? He is so good-natured, such
a sterling character, and his roughness wears off when one knows him well."

"And moreover," added I, "he has five hundred thousand dollars."

"Which are by no means the least of his recommendations. Only think of the balls, Howard! I
hope you will come to them. And then Saratoga; next year London and Paris. Oh! it will be delightful."

"What, so far gone already?" said I, sarcastically.

"And poor Margaret is saved!" added she, throwing her arms round her sister's neck, and kissing
and caressing her. I hardly knew whether to laugh or to cry.

"Then, I suppose, I may congratulate you?" said I, forcing a laugh, and looking, I have no
doubt, very like a fool.

You may so," replied Arthurine. "This morning Mr Moreland begged permission to transfer his
addresses from Margaret to your very humble servant."

"And you?"--

"We naturally, in consideration of the petitioner's many amiable qualities, have promised to
take the request into our serious consideration. For decorum's sake, you know, one must deliberate
a couple of days or so."

"Are you in jest or earnest, Arthurine?"

"Quite in earnest, Howard."

"Farewell, then!"

  "'Fare-thee-well! and if for ever Still for ever fare-thee-well!'"

said Arthurine, in a half-laughing, half-sighing tone. The next instant I had left the room.

On the stairs I met the beturbaned Mrs Bowsends, who led the way mysteriously into the parlour.

"You have seen Arthurine?" said she. "What a dear, darling child!--is she not? Oh! that girl
is our joy and consolation. And Mr Moreland--the charming Mr Moreland! Now that things are
arranged so delightfully, we can let Margaret have her own way a little."

"What I have heard is true, then?" said I.

"Yes; as an old friend I do not mind telling you--though it must still remain a secret for
a short time. Mr Moreland has made a formal proposal to Arthurine."

I do not know what reply I made, before flinging myself out of the room and house, and running
down the street as if I had just escaped from a lunatic asylum.

"Richards," cried I to my friend, "shall we start tomorrow?"

"Thank God!" exclaimed Richards. "So you are cured of the New York fever? Start! Yes, by all
means, before you get a relapse. You must come with me to Virginia for a couple of months."

"I will so," was my answer.

As we were going down to the steam-boat on the following morning, Staunton overtook us, breathless
with speed and delight.

"Wish me joy!" cried he. "I am accepted!"

"And I jilted!" replied I with a laugh. "But I am not such a fool as to make myself unhappy
about a woman."

Light words enough, but my heart was heavy as I spoke them. Five minutes later, we were on
our way to Virginia.

       *       *       *       *       *

HYDRO-BACCHUS.

  Great Homer sings how once of old
  The Thracian women met to hold
  To "Bacchus, ever young and fair,"
  Mysterious rites with solemn care.
  For now the summer's glowing face
  Had look'd upon the hills of Thrace;
  And laden vines foretold the pride
  Of foaming vats at Autumn tide.
  There, while the gladsome Evöe shout
  Through Nysa's knolls rang wildly out,
  While cymbal clang, and blare of horn,
  O'er the broad Hellespont were borne;
  The sounds, careering far and near,
  Struck sudden on Lycurgus' ear--
  Edonia's grim black-bearded lord,
  Who still the Bacchic rites abhorr'd,
  And cursed the god whose power divine
  Lent heaven's own fire to generous wine.
  Ere yet th' inspired devotees
  Had half performed their mysteries,
  Furious he rush'd amidst the band,
  And whirled an ox-goad in his hand.
  Full many a dame on earth lay low
  Beneath the tyrant's savage blow;
  The rest, far scattering in affright,
  Sought refuge from his rage in flight.

  But the fell king enjoy'd not long
  The triumph of his impious wrong:
  The vengeance of the god soon found him,
  And in a rocky dungeon bound him.
  There, sightless, chain'd, in woful tones
  He pour'd his unavailing groans,
  Mingled with all the blasts that shriek
  Round Athos' thunder-riven peak.
  O Thracian king! how vain the ire
  That urged thee 'gainst the Bacchic choir
  The god avenged his votaries well--
  Stern was the doom that thee befell;
  And on the Bacchus-hating herd
  Still rests the curse thy guilt incurr'd.
  For the same spells that in those days
  Were wont the Bacchanals to craze--
  The maniac orgies, the rash vow,
  Have fall'n on thy disciples now.
  Though deepest silence dwells alone,
  Parnassus, on thy double cone;
  To mystic cry, through fell and brake,
  No more Cithaeron's echoes wake;
  No longer glisten, white and fleet,
  O'er the dark lawns of Taÿgete,
  The Spartan virgin's bounding feet:
  Yet Frenzy still has power to roll
  Her portents o'er the prostrate soul.
  Though water-nymphs must twine the spell
  Which once the wine-god threw so well--
  Changed are the orgies now, 'tis true,
  Save in the madness of the crew.
  Bacchus his votaries led of yore
  Through woodland glades and mountains hoar;
  While flung the Maenad to the air
  The golden masses of her hair,
  And floated free the skin of fawn,
  From her bare shoulder backward borne.
  Wild Nature, spreading all her charms,
  Welcomed her children to her arms;
  Laugh'd the huge oaks, and shook with glee,
  In answer to their revelry;
  Kind Night would cast her softest dew
  Where'er their roving footsteps flew;
  So bright the joyous fountains gush'd,
  So proud the swelling rivers rush'd,
  That mother Earth they well might deem,
  With honey, wine, and milk, for them
  Most bounteously had fed the stream.
  The pale moon, wheeling overhead,
  Her looks of love upon them shed,
  And pouring forth her floods of light,
  With all the landscape blest their sight.
  Through foliage thick the moonshine fell,
  Checker'd upon the grassy dell;
  Beyond, it show'd the distant spires
  Of skyish hills, the world's grey sires;
  More brightly beam'd, where far away,
  Around his clustering islands, lay,
  Adown some opening vale descried,
  The vast Aegean's waveless tide.
  What wonder then, if Reason's power
  Fail'd in each reeling mind that hour,
  When their enraptured spirits woke
  To Nature's liberty, and broke
  The artificial chain that bound them,
  With the broad sky above, and the free winds around them!
  From Nature's overflowing soul,
  That sweet delirium on them stole;
  She held the cup, and bade them share
  In draughts of joy too deep to bear.

  Not such the scenes that to the eyes
  Of water-Bacchanals arise;
  Whene'er the day of festival
  Summons the Pledged t' attend its call--
  In long procession to appear,
  And show the world how good they are.
  Not theirs the wild-wood wanderings,
  The voices of the winds and springs:
  But seek them where the smoke-fog brown
  Incumbent broods o'er London town;
  'Mid Finsbury Square ruralities
  Of mangy grass, and scrofulous trees;
  'Mid all the sounds that consecrate
  Thy street, melodious Bishopsgate!
  Not by the mountain grot and pine,
  Haunts of the Heliconian Nine:
  But where the town-bred Muses squall
  Love-verses in an annual;
  Such muses as inspire the grunt
  Of Barry Cornwall, and Leigh Hunt.
  Their hands no ivy'd thyrsus bear,
  No Evöe floats upon the air:
  But flags of painted calico
  Flutter aloft with gaudy show;
  And round then rises, long and loud,
  The laughter of the gibing crowd.

  O sacred Temp'rance! mine were shame
  If I could wish to brand thy name.
  But though these dullards boast thy grace,
  Thou in their orgies hast no place.
  Thou still disdain'st such sorry lot,
  As even below the soaking sot.
  Great was high Duty's power of old
  The empire o'er man's heart to hold;
  To urge the soul, or check its course,
  Obedient to her guiding force.
  These own not her control, but draw
  New sanction for the moral law,
  And by a stringent compact bind
  The independence of the mind--
  As morals had gregarious grown,
  And Virtue could not stand alone.
  What need they rules against abusing?
  They find th' offence all in the using.
  Denounce the gifts which bounteous Heaven
  To cheer the heart of man has given;
  And think their foolish pledge a band
  More potent far than God's command.
  On this new plan they cleverly
  Work morals by machinery;
  Keeping men virtuous by a tether,
  Like gangs of negroes chain'd together.

  Then, Temperance, if thus it be,
  They know no further need of thee.
  This pledge usurps thy ancient throne--
  Alas! thy occupation's gone!
  From earth thou may'st unheeded rise,
  And like Astræa--seek the skies.

MARTIN LUTHER.

AN ODE.

  Who sits upon the Pontiff's throne?
    On Peter's holy chair
  Who sways the keys? At such a time
  When dullest ears may hear the chime
  Of coming thunders--when dark skies
  Are writ with crimson prophecies,
    A wise man should be there;
  A godly man, whose life might be
  The living logic of the sea;
  One quick to know, and keen to feel--
  A fervid man, and full of zeal,
    Should sit in Peter's chair.

  Alas! no fervid man is there,
    No earnest, honest heart;
  One who, though dress'd in priestly guise,
  Looks on the world with worldling's eyes;
  One who can trim the courtier's smile,
  Or weave the diplomatic wile,
    But knows no deeper art;
  One who can dally with fair forms,
  Whom a well-pointed period warms--
  No man is he to hold the helm
  Where rude winds blow, and wild waves whelm,
    And creaking timbers start.

  In vain did Julius pile sublime
   The vast and various dome,
  That makes the kingly pyramid's pride,
  And the huge Flavian wonder, hide
  Their heads in shame--these gilded stones
  (O heaven!) were very blood and bones
    Of those whom Christ did come
  To save--vile grin of slaves who sold
  Celestial rights for earthy gold,
  Marketing grace with merchant's measure,
  To prank with Europe's pillaged treasure
    The pride of purple Rome.

  The measure of her sins is full,
    The scarlet-vested whore!
  Thy murderous and lecherous race
  Have sat too long i' the holy place;
  The knife shall lop what no drug cures,
  Nor Heaven permits, nor earth endures,
    The monstrous mockery more.
  Behold! I swear it, saith the Lord:
  Mine elect warrior girds the sword--
  A nameless man, a miner's son,
  Shall tame thy pride, thou haughty one,
    And pale the painted whore!

  Earth's mighty men are nought. I chose
    Poor fishermen before
  To preach my gospel to the poor;
  A pauper boy from door to door
  That piped his hymn. By his strong word
  The startled world shall now be stirr'd,
    As with a lion's roar!
  A lonely monk that loved to dwell
  With peaceful host in silent cell;
  This man shall shake the Pontiff's throne:
  Him Kings and emperors shall own,
    And stout hearts wince before

  The eye profound and front sublime
    Where speculation reigns.
  He to the learned seats shall climb,
  On Science' watch-tower stand sublime;
  The arid doctrine shall inspire
    Of wiry teachers with swift fire;
  And, piled with cumbrous pains,
  Proud palaces of sounding lies
  Lay prostrate with a breath. The wise
  Shall listen to his word; the youth
  Shall eager seize the new-born truth
    Where prudent age refrains.

  Lo! when the venal pomp proceeds
    From echoing town to town!
  The clam'rous preacher and his train,
  Organ and bell with sound inane,
  The crimson cross, the book, the keys,
  The flag that spreads before the breeze,
    The triple-belted crown!
  It wends its way; and straw is sold--
  Yea! deadly drugs for heavy gold,
  To feeble hearts whose pulse is fear;
  And though some smile, and many sneer,
    There's none will dare to frown.

  None dares but one--the race is rare--
    One free and honest man:
  Truth is a dangerous thing to say
  Amid the lies that haunt the day;
  But He hath lent it voice; and, lo!
  From heart to heart the fire shall go,
    Instinctive without plan;
  Proud bishops with a lordly train,
    Fierce cardinals with high disdain,
  Sleek chamberlains with smooth discourse,
  And wrangling doctors all shall force,
    In vain, one honest man.

  In vain the foolish Pope shall fret,
    It is a sober thing.
  Thou sounding trifler, cease to rave,
  Loudly to damn, and loudly save,
  And sweep with mimic thunders' swell
  Armies of honest souls to hell!
    The time on whirring wing
  Hath fled when this prevail'd. O, Heaven!
  One hour, one little hour, is given,
  If thou could'st but repent. But no!
  To ruin thou shalt headlong go,
    A doom'd and blasted thing.

  Thy parchment ban comes forth; and lo!
    Men heed it not, thou fool!
  Nay, from the learned city's gate,
  In solemn show, in pomp of state,
  The watchmen of the truth come forth,
  The burghers old of sterling worth,
    And students of the school:
  And he who should have felt thy ban
  Walks like a prophet in the van;
  He hath a calm indignant look,
  Beneath his arm he bears a book,
    And in his hand the Bull.

  He halts; and in the middle space
    Bids pile a blazing fire.
  The flame ascends with crackling glee;
  Then, with firm step advancing, He
  Gives to the wild fire's wasting rule
  The false Decretals, and the Bull,
    While thus he vents his ire:--
  "Because the Holy One o' the Lord
  Thou vexed hast with impious word,
  Therefore the Lord shall thee consume,
  And thou shalt share the Devil's doom
    In everlasting fire!"

  He said; and rose the echo round
    "In everlasting fire!"
  The hearts of men were free; one word
  Their inner depths of soul had stirr'd;
  Erect before their God they stood
  A truth-shod Christian brotherhood,
    And wing'd with high desire.

  Thus the brave German men; and we
    Shall echo back the cry;
  The burning of that parchment scroll
  Annull'd the bond that sold the soul
  Of man to man; each brother now
  Only to one great Lord will bow,
    One Father-God on high.
  And though with fits of lingering life
  The wounded foe prolong the strife,
  On Luther's deed we build our hope,
  Our steady faith--the fond old Pope
    Is dying, and shall die.

TRADITIONS AND TALES OF UPPER LUSATIA.

No. II

THE FAIRY TUTOR.

Discreet Reader!

You have seen--and 'tis no longer ago than YESTERDAY!--you must well remember the picture--which
showed you from the rough yet delicate--the humorous yet sympathetic and picturesque--the original
yet insinuating pencil of a shrewd and hearty Lusatian mountaineer--the aerial, brilliant,
sensitive, subtle, fascinating, enigmatical, outwardly--mirth-given, inwardly--sorrow-touched,
congregated folk numberless--of the Fairies Proper!--showed them at the urgency of a rare and
strange need--clung, in DEPENDENCY, to one fair, kind, good and happily-born Daughter of Man!--And
what wonder?--The once glorious, but now forlorn spirits, leaning for one fate-burthened instant
their trust upon the spirits ineffably favoured!--What wonder! that often as the revolution
of ages brings on the appointed hour, the rebellious and outcast children of heaven must sue--to
their keen emergency--help--oh! speak up to the height of the want, of the succour! and call
it a lent ray of grace, from the rebellious and REDEEMED children of the earth!--And see, where,
in the serene eyes of the soft Christian maiden, the hallowing influence shines!--Auspiciously
begun, the awed though aspiring Rite, the still, the multitudinous, the mystical, prospers!--Gratefully,
as for the boon inexpressibly worth--easily, as of their own transcending power--promptly,
as though fearing that a benefit received could wax cold, the joyful Elves crown upon the bright
hair of their graciously natured, but humanly and womanly weak benefactress--the wedded felicity
of pure love!

And the imaginary curtain has dropped! Lo, where it rises again, discovering to view our stage,
greatly changed, and, a little perhaps, our actors!--Once more, attaching to the HUMAN DRAMA,
slight, as though it were structured of cloud, of air, the same light and radiant MACHINERY!
Once more, only that They, whom you lately saw tranquil, earnest even to pathos--"now are frolic"--enough
and to spare!--Once more--THE FAIRIES.

And see, too--where, centring in herself interest and action of the rapidly shifting scenery--ever
again a beautiful granddaughter of Eve steps--free and fearless, and bouyant and bounding--our
fancy-laid boards!--Ah! but how much unresembling the sweet maid!--Outwardly, for lofty-piled
is the roof that ceils over the superb head of the modern Amazon, Swanhilda--more unlike within.
Instead of the clear truth, the soul's gentle purity, the "plain and holy Innocence" of the
poor fairy-beloved mountain child--SHE, in whose person and fortunes you are invited--for the
next fifty minutes--to forget your own--harbours, fondly harbours, ill housemates of her virginal
breast! a small, resolute, well-armed and well confederated garrison of unwomanly faults. Pride
is there!--The iron-hard and the iron-cold! There Scorn--edging repulse with insult!--and envenoming
insult with despair!--leaps up, in eager answer to the beseeching sighs, tears, and groans
of earth-bent Adoration. And there is the indulged Insolency of a domineering--and as you will
precipitately augur--an indomitable Will! And there is exuberant SELF-POWER, that, from the
innermost mind, oozing up, out, distilling, circulating along nerve and vein, effects a magical
metamorphosis! turns the nymph into a squire of arms; usurping even the clamorous and blood-sprinkled
joy of man--the tempestuous and terrible CHASE, which, in the bosom of peace, imaging war,
shows in the rougher lord of creation himself, as harsh, wild, and turbulent! Oh, how much
other than yon sweet lily of the high Lusatian valleys, the shade-loving Flower, the good Maud--herself
looked upon with love by the glad eyes of men, women, children, Fairies, and Angels! oh, other
indeed! And yet, have you, in this thickly clustered enumeration of unamiable qualities, implicitly
heard the CALL which must fasten, which has fastened, upon the gentle Maud's haughty antithesis--the
serviceable regard, and--the FAVOUR, even of THE FAIRIES.

The FAVOUR!!

Hear, impatient spectator, the simple plot and its brief process. You are, after a fashion,
informed with what studious, persevering, and unmerciful violation of all gentle decorum and
feminine pity, the lovely marble-souled tyranness has, in the course of the last three or four
years, turned back from her beetle-browed castle-gate, one by one, as they showed themselves
there--a hundred, all worthily born--otherwise more and less meritorious--petitioners for that
whip-and-javelin-bearing hand. You are NOW to know, that upon this very morning, an embassy
from the willow-wearers all--or, to speak indeed more germanely to the matter, of the BASKET-BEARERS[22],
waited upon their beautiful enemy with an ultimatum and manifesto in one, importing first a
requisition to surrender; then, in case of refusal to capitulate, the announcement that HYMEN
having found in CUPID an inefficient ally, he was about associating with himself, in league
offensive, the god MARS, with intent of carrying the Maiden-fortress by storm, and reducing
the aforesaid wild occupants of the stronghold into captivity--whereunto she made answer--

  ----our castle's strength
  Will laugh a siege to scorn--

herself laughing outrageously to scorn the senders and the sent This crowning of wrong upon
wrong will the Fairies, in the first place, wreak and right.

[Footnote 22: To German ears--to SEND A BASKET--is to REFUSE A PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE.]

But further, later upon the same unlucky day, the Kingdom of Elves, being in full council assembled
in the broad light of the sun, upon the fair greensward; ere the very numerous, but not widely
sitting diet had yet well opened its proceedings--"tramp, tramp, across the land," came, flying
at full speed, boar-spear in hand, our madcap huntress; and without other note of preparation
sounded than their own thunder, her iron-grey's hoofs were in the thick of the sage assembly,
causing an indecorous trepidation, combined with devastation dire to persons and--wearing apparel.

This wrong, in the second place, the Fairies will wreak and right.

And all transgression and injury, under one procedure, which is--summary; as, from the character
of the judges and executioners, into whose hands the sinner has fallen, you would expect; sufficiently
prankish too. With one sleight of their magical hand they turn the impoverished heiress of
ill-possessed acres forth upon the highway, doomed to earn, with strenuous manual industry,
her livelihood; until, from the winnings of her handicraft, she is moreover able to make good,
as far as this was liable to pecuniary assessment, the damage sustained under foot of her fiery
barb by the Fairy realm; comfort with handsome presents the rejected suitors; and until, thoroughly
tame, she yields into her softened and opened bosom, now rid of its intemperate inmates, an
entrance to the once debarred and contemned visitant--LOVE.

As to the way and style of the Fairy operations that carry out this drift, comparing the Two
Tales, you will see, that omitting, as a matter that is related merely, not presented, that
misadventure under the oak-tree--there is, in the chamber of Swanhilda, but a Fairy delegation
active, whilst under the Sun's hill whole Elfdom is in presence; in that resplendent hollow,
wearing their own lovely shapes; within the German castle-walls, in apt masquerade. There they
were grave. Here, we have already said, that they are merry. There their office was to feel
and to think. Here, if there be any trust in apparitions, they drink, and what is more critical
for an Elfin lip--they eat!

Lastly, to end the comparisons for our well-bred, well-dressed, and right courtly cavalier,
who transacted between the Fairy Queen and the stonemason's daughter, him you shall presently
see turned into a sort of Elfin cupbearer or court butler; not without fairy grace of person
and of mind assuredly; not without a due innate sense of the beautiful, as his perfumed name
(SWEETFLOWER) at the outset warns you; and, as the proximity of his function to her Majesty's
person--for we do not here fall in with any thing like mention of a king--would suggest, independently
of the delicately responsible part borne by him in the action, the chief stress of which you
will find incumbent upon his capable shoulders.

Such, in respect of the subject, is, thrice courteous and intelligent reader, the second piece
of art, which we are glad to have the opportunity of placing before you, from our clever friend
Ernst Willkomm's apparently right fertile easel. The second, answering to the first, LIKE and
UNLIKE, you perceive, as two companion pictures should be.

But it would be worse than useless to tell you that which you have seen and that which you
will see, unless, from the juxtaposition of the two fables, there followed--a moral. They have,
as we apprehend, a moral--i.e. one moral, and that a grave one, in common between them.

Hitherto we have superficially compared THE FAIRIES' SABBATH and the FAIRY TUTOR. We now wish
to develope a profounder analogy connecting them. We have compared them, as if ESTHETICALLY;
we would now compare them MYTHOLOGICALLY--for, in our understanding, there lies at the very
foundation of both tales A MYTHOLOGICAL ROOT--by whomsoever set, whether by Ernst Willkomm
to-day, or by the population of the Lusatian mountains--three, six, ten centuries ago; or,
in unreckoned antiquity, by the common Ancestors of the believers, who, in still unmeasured
antiquity, brought the superstition of the Fairies out of central Asia to remote occidental Europe.

This ROOT we are bold to think is--"A DEEPLY SEATED ATTRACTION, ALLYING THE FAIRY MIND TO THE
PURITY AND INTEGRITY OF THE MORAL WILL IN THE MIND OF MEN." And first for the Tale which presently
concerns us:--THE FAIRY TUTOR.

SWEETFLOWER will beguile us into believing that the interposition of the Fairies in our Baroness's
domestic arrangements, grows up, if one shall so hazardously speak, from TWO seeds, each bearing
two branches--namely, from two wrongs, the one hitting, the other striking from, themselves--BOTH
which wrongs they will AVENGE and AMEND. We take up a strenuous theory; and we deny--and we
defy--SWEETFLOWER. Nay, more! Should our excellent friend, ERNST WILLKOMM, be found taking
part, real or apparent, with SWEETFLOWER, we defy and we deny Ernst Willkomm. For in this mixed
case of the Fairy wrong, we distinguish, first, INJURIES which shall be retaliated, and, as
far as may be, compensated; and secondly, a SHREW, who is to be turned into a WIFE, being previously
turned out of a shrew.

We dare to believe that this last-mentioned end is the thing uppermost, and undermost, and
middlemost in the mind of the Fairies; is, in fact, the true and the sole final cause of all
their proceedings.

Or that the moral heart of the poem--that root in the human breast and will, from which every
true poem springs heavenward--is here the zeal of the spirits for morally reforming Swanhilda;
is, therefore, that deep-seated attraction, which, as we have averred, essentially allies the
inclination of the Fairies to the moral conscience in our own kind.

One end, therefore, grounds the whole story, although two and more are proposed by Sweetflower.
It is one that satisfies the moral reason in man; for it is no less than to cleanse and heal
the will, wounded with error, of a human creature. That other, which he displays, with mock
emphasis, of restitution to the downtrodden fairyhood, is an exotic, fair and slight bud, grafted
into the sturdier indigenous stock. For let us fix but a steady look upon the thing itself,
and what is there before us? a whim, a trick of the fancy, tickling the fancy. We are amused
with a quaint calamity--a panic of caps and cloaks. We laugh--we cannot help it--as the pigmy
assembly flies a thousand ways at once--grave councillors and all--throwing terrified somersets--hiding
under stones, roots--diving into coney-burrows--"any where--any where"--vanishing out of harm's--if
not out of dismay's--reach. In a tale of the Fairies, THE FANCY rules:--and the interest of
such a misfortune, definite and not infinite, is congenial to the spirit of the gay faculty
which hovers over, lives upon surfaces, and which flees abysses; which thence, likewise, in
the moral sphere, is equal to apprehending resentment of a personal wrong, and a judicial assessment
of damages--but NOT A DISINTERESTED MORAL END.

What is our conclusion then? plainly that the dolorous overthrow of the fairy divan is no better
than an invention--the device of an esthetical artist. We hold that Ernst Willkomm has gratuitously
bestowed upon us the disastrous catastrophe; that he has done this, knowing the obligation
which lies upon Fancy within her own chosen domain to create, because--there, Fancy listens
and reads. The adroit Fairy delineator must wile over and reconcile the most sportive, capricious,
and self-willed spirit of our understanding, to accept a purpose foreign to that spirit's habitual
sympathies--a purpose solemn and austere--THE MORAL PURPOSE OF RESCUING A SIN-ENTANGLED HUMAN SOUL.

Or, if Ernst Willkomm shall guarantee to us, that the reminiscences of his people have furnished
him with the materials of this tale; if he is, as we must needs hope, who have freely dealt
with you to believe that he is--honest: honest both as to the general character, and the particular
facts of his representations--if, in short, the Lusatian Highlanders do, sitting by the bench
and the stove, aver and protest that the said Swanhilda did overturn both council-board and
councillors--then we say, upon this occasion, that which we must all, hundreds of times, declare--namely,
that The Genius of Tradition is the foremost of artists; and further, that in this instance
an unwilled fiction, determined by a necessity of the human bosom, has risen up to mantle seriousness
with grace, as a free woodbine enclasps with her slender-gadding twines, and bedecks with her
sweet bright blossoms, a towering giant of the grove.

It will perhaps be objected, that the moral purity and goodness that are so powerful to draw
to themselves the regard and care of the spiritual people, are wanting in the character of
the over-bold Swanhilda. We have said that her faults are the CALL to the Fairies for help
and reformation: but we may likewise guess that Virtue and Truth first won their love. It must
be recollected that the faults which are extirpated from the breast of our heroine, are not
such as, in our natural understanding of humanity, dishonour or sully. Taken away, the character
may stand clear. It is quite possible that this gone, there shall be left behind a kind, good,
affectionate, generous, noble nature.

We are free, or, more properly speaking, we are bound to believe, that thus the Fairies left
Swanhilda.

As for Maud, we know--for she was told--that the Fairies loved her for herself ere they needed
her aid. Hanging as it were upon that wondrous power to help which dwelt within her--her simple
goodness--may we not say that the Fairies discover an ENFORCED attraction, when they afterwards
approach the maiden for their own succour and salvation; as they do, a FREE attraction, when,
in the person of Swanhilda, they disinterestedly attach themselves to reforming a fault for
the welfare and happiness of her whom it aggrieves?

       *       *       *       *       *

We will now proceed, as in our former communication, to adduce instances from other quarters,
confirming the fairy delineations offered by our tale; or which may tend generally to bring
out its mythological and literary character.

Two points would suggest themselves to us in the tale of the Fairy Tutor, as chiefly provoking
comparison. The first is:--The affirmed Presidency of the Fairies over human morals, viewed
as a Shape of the Interest which they take in the uprightness and purity of the human will.

The second is:--

The Manner and Style of their operations: or, THE FAIRY WAYS. In which we chiefly distinguish--1,
The active presence of the Sprites in a human habitation. 2, Their masquerading. 3, Their dispatch
of human victuals. 4, The liability of Elfin limbs to human casualties. 5, The personality
of that saucy Puck, our tiny ambassador elf.

We are at once tempted and restrained by the richness of illustration, which presents itself
under all these heads. The necessity of limitation is, however, imperious. This, and a wish
for simplicity, dispose us to throw all under one more comprehensive title.

Perhaps the reader has not entirely forgotten that in the remarks introductory to THE FAIRIES'
SABBATH, having launched the question--what is a Fairy?--we offered him in the way of answer,
eight elements of the Fairy Nature. Has he quite forgotten that for one of these--it was the
third--we represented the Spirit under examination, as ONE WHICH AT ONCE SEEKS AND SHUNS MANKIND?

The cursory treatment of this Elfin criterion will now compendiously place before the reader,
as much illustration of the two above-given heads as we dare impose upon him.

The popular Traditions of entire Western Europe variously attest for all the kinds of the Fairies,
and for some orders of Spirits partaking of the Fairy character, the singularly composed, and
almost self-contradictory traits of a seeking implicated and attempered with a shunning; of
a shunning with a seeking. The inclination of our Quest will be to evidences of the seeking.
The shunning will, it need not be doubted, take good care of itself.

The attraction of the Fairy Species towards our own is,

  1. Recognised--in their GENERIC DESIGNATIONS.
  2. Apparent--in their GOOD NEIGHBOURHOOD with us.
  3. IN THEIR FREQUENTING AND ESTABLISHING THEMSELVES in the places of
     our habitual occupancy and resort.
  4. IN THEIR CALLING OR CARRYING US into the places of their Occupancy
     and Resort; whether to return hither, or to remain
     there.
  5. BY THEIR ALIGHTING UPON THE PATH, worn already with some blithe or
     some weary steps, OF A HUMAN DESTINY;--as friendly, or as unfriendly
     Genii.

We collect the proofs: and--

1. Of their GENERIC APPELLATIVES, a Word!

