On the man came, amid absolute silence. He was at the wall of the fort when suddenly Donald
rose to his full height, flung up both arms, and yelled at the top of his voice--the familiar
manner of stopping a pursuing wild animal. The Indian, instinctively taken aback, halted, and
Donald reached over and drew the gun out of the unresisting hand, while a roar of laughter
went up. This was too much for the brave, who, with a fearful curse, drew his knife, and cleared
the fort wall at a bound. But he died in mid air, for Donald, quicker than he, had swung the
man's own musket by the barrel, and brought it down with all his strength upon the fur-covered
head. Instantly, a howl went up from the forest, followed by a volley, which McTavish avoided
by the speed of his drop into the trench. But others who had been watching were careless, and
did not fare so well. Two of the men, one of them old Bill Thompson, dropped dead in their
tracks. The man who had been badly wounded in the first fatalities was now out of his misery,
and there remained but seven to guard the furs, and the honor of the Hudson Bay Company. The
snow inside the barricade was stained with blood.

But there was no time now to sentimentalize. The dead were passed along from hand to hand and
piled at one end, the brave Indian among them. Buxton had lost considerable blood, but he was
cheerful, and Timmins whistled continually. Another man had a ball in his left shoulder, and
a third had had his cheek grazed.

Of the free-traders it was impossible to say how many were dead or wounded; Donald, after a
moment's careful reckoning, felt sure that more than a third of them, if not half, had felt lead.

Now however, Seguis changed his tactics. The next charge came from three points at once, and
Donald met it as best he could with three volleys--one at seventy-five yards, another at forty,
and a third at ten--when the dark, frenzied faces and flashing eyes of the free-traders were
so close that the streaks of yellow flame seemed to shoot out and touch them. The loss was
heavy on both sides, and for the first time inside the barricade demoralization reigned. Had
the attackers possessed the one necessary extra ounce of heroism, and pressed on to the goal,
they could have won it.

Donald himself went down with the shock of a bullet that broke his left arm; two others of
his men, who had stood up in the moment of excitement, were dead, and two others severely wounded.
Only the unconcerned Timmins had passed through the ordeal unscathed.

"Water! Heavens, I wish I had some water!" grunted Buxton.

"Say, Tim," called one of the wounded men, "prop me up in front of this hole, and I'll show
'em I'm good yet."

"Same here," said the other, weakly.

Timmins went back and forth between them, doing what they wished, and loading their guns. Donald,
grinning with the pain of his arm, managed to reload his rifle with his right hand. Buxton,
swearing softly to himself, accomplished a like feat.

"For heaven's sake, Cap, let me wing Seguis this time, won't you?" begged Timmins.

"Wing him, yes, but don't kill him. I've got a 'few things I want to straighten out with him,
if we ever get out of here alive, and I don't want him dead when I do it, either."

"All right. Look out! Here they come! They must want this place mighty bad to keep this up."

Only fifteen men answered Seguis's yell this time, and they did not seem over enthusiastic.
But they swept down the little hill swiftly, scattered wide apart.

"Shoot slow and sure," warned Donald, and a moment later one and another of the attackers began
to drop or waver in their tracks. But they came on.

Seguis threw up his arms, and stopped short. Then, he recovered himself, and fought his way onward.

Inside the barricade, Timmins rolled over with a little sigh, and lay still. The logs, chipped
and torn by many bullets, were now like a sieve, and one after another of the defenders released
his gun, and lay still, or struggled in death throes. Only Buxton and McTavish continued to fire.

This time the wave of advance reached its high mark at the very logs of the fort, and Seguis,
with a wild yell, swung his gun with one hand, and leaped. Donald and Buxton struggled up to
meet the attack, swearing like madmen; but, just at that moment, unseen by all of them, a line
of men appeared at the edge of the woods, knelt quickly, and let loose a volley that laid the
attackers low.

Followed an uncanny stillness, which was broken only by the horrid sounds of the wounded and
dying. Then, down the little declivity broke fifty men, cheering wildly, and a minute later
the Hudson Bay Company took possession of its own. They found McTavish and Buxton pale and
open-mouthed, regarding their arrival with blank faces. Behind them, the trench was a shambles.
Before the barricade, Seguis sat dazedly, one leg pierced, and an arm helpless because of Timmins's
bullet in his shoulder. One or two others rested on their elbows, half-conscious.

The newcomers spoke to McTavish, but he did not seem to hear them: his gaze was riveted on
something that had started down the incline. He saw a team of six magnificent dogs, dragging
a polished cariole of wonderful workmanship. It was piled with furs, and from the curled enamel
lip two little staffs arose, and on them fluttered the red flag of the Hudson Bay Company.
Among the furs sat a man with a gray mustache and piercing blue eyes.

"Father!" cried Donald, and fell forward unconscious across the bullet-splintered logs.

CHAPTER XXVI

RENUNCIATION

"I'm proud of you, lad," were the first words that Donald recognized when he came to himself
in the little shed-tent that quick hands had erected.

"I'm glad you came," was the simple reply. "They'd have done for us in another half-minute.
I don't see why Seguis threw away so many lives trying to capture that fort."

"Dr. Craven says you mustn't talk for a bit, but you can listen while I tell you. Last night,
Peter Rainy and I came upon the Fort Severn men in possession of the French traders' supply
trains."

"Peter Rainy! Good old Peter! Is he back, too?"

"Yes, but you mustn't talk. Obey orders."

Donald smiled comfortably as he recognized the familiar, brusque speech, and closed his eyes.

"Yes, sir."

"All right. This morning, we had started up here, when he saw a man chasing away from us for
dear life. One of the boys recognized him as Seguis, and figured that his men must have come
down to try to rescue the trains, but that, when they saw the number in the party, they decided
to return to their camp and fight in the last ditch. Naturally, when they found you in possession--and
I must tell you that was a clever piece of work for a boy--they started in to drive you out.
It was their only chance."

Donald smiled again. If he were fifty years old, he would always be a "boy" to his father.

"By that stubborn defense of yours, you have wiped the Free-Traders' Brotherhood out of existence,
as well as saved a lot of exceptionally fine furs (so I'm told) for the Company. I don't think
the bullets made much headway against that toughness. I'm awfully sorry so many men lost their
lives, and, of course, we'll look out for their families, if they have any.

"Now, about the matter that brought me here." The father plunged into this delicate subject
with his son fearlessly, but with a deep breath, like a man diving into cold water. "I see,
I've got to be pretty much alive if you and I are to get out of it with a whole skin. What
I'd like to know is, how they saddle this half-breed on me."

"If you don't know, who does?" The eyes of the son were steady in their wordless accusation.
"It's this way, father: If you never married this woman Maria, it ought to be easy enough to
prove."

"I didn't marry her."

"Well, then, there oughtn't to be any trouble."

"Oh, yes, there ought, my boy. I didn't say she never had a place in my life."

Donald looked at his father with something of the elder man's piercing gaze, and understood.

"Then, there were--"

"Relations. Exactly! But no children. After three years, we agreed to separate, and she went
back to her people, well provided for, for the rest of her life. She was considered to have
done very well. Therefore, having Seguis forced upon me is no light matter."

"I hate to say it, father," Donald said, "but if you look at him carefully, you will see unmistakable
signs that spell 'McTavish' as plainly as though it were printed. You know, our family has
very distinctive gray eyes and curly hair, with a lick of white on the crown. He has them both.
But, tell me, what led you into any such relation? If you had warned me when I was old enough,
I would have been prepared for it."

"My boy, I had none of the advantages that you have had all your life. I was born at a little
post so far north that it has been abandoned now by the Company. Your grandfather was in charge
there, and, when I was old enough, I went out with him, and learned to hunt. Then, later, when
I was a man, I was put in charge of another little post on the Whale River, one of those spots
where a solitary white man lives for all the winter months alone, only visited occasionally
by a passing Indian in need of supplies. Oh, if I had only realized then what I know now, that
one's mistakes and wrong-doings bear their fruit in time! Well, at the fort, when the brigade
went up in the spring, I saw an Indian girl, descendant of a chief. You will understand me
when I say that I turned away from the advances she made. Our family isn't that kind--I would
marry no Indian. My mother was white, all our McTavish women are white. I would have nothing
to do with her. But then, that lonely winter post! You've never known it, Donald, that awful
solitariness! The first winter I had a couple of papers a year old, and, when the brigade went
up to the fort, I could almost repeat them verbatim. That's how lonely it was!

"When I thought about that, perhaps I pushed matters a little myself. The girl's parents were
dead, and she was knocked around considerably by an old hag who hadn't the heart either to
let her starve or to treat her kindly. Well, we fixed it up. I left the fort when the time
came, and she followed a week later--and that winter I wasn't alone. It was so for three winters.
Then, she began to get shrewish and lose her looks, so I gave her money enough to make her
independent (my father had left me something), and we separated with mutual satisfaction...
That's the story, Donald."

"It's a hard story, father," said the young man, soberly. "There isn't much kindness in it;
it's pure selfishness. Understand, I'm not preaching against the immorality of the thing; people
up here are frankly either one or the other, and it's nobody's business much, except the missionary's.
But, in the light of what has happened this winter, we would all be happier if you hadn't done it."

"I know it, my boy, I know it." The hardness of the commissioner's voice broke. "And, so far
as I can see, we aren't out of the trouble yet. This man, Seguis, and old Maria may force us
to the wall yet. I wonder if I could bribe them off?" He looked pleadingly at his son.

"I don't think so. The old woman is so ambitious for Seguis that she won't take anything but
the whole cake, and, besides, why expose yourself to a system of everlasting blackmail, with
the chance of their getting angry some time and squealing anyhow? We've got to force them to
the wall some other way. When are you going to have a council, and settle this thing?"

"To-morrow morning, my boy;" and the commissioner rose.

Donald noted, with a little pang of sorrow, that his father's face looked older than he had
ever seen it, and conjectured rightly that beneath the surface this gruff man, who had raised
himself to second in command of the Company, was profoundly, abjectly miserable.

The elder McTavish rested his hand for a moment on his son's well shoulder.

"I'm going out now," he said. "I've tired you enough. Try to rest, or Craven will give me the
deuce for rousing you... Oh, by the way, Donald, I know all that's happened between you and
Fitzpatrick. Rainy told me. I sent old Bill Thompson up here to command Fitzpatrick's presence,
when I arrived. Pretty foxy fellow, old Bill; seemed to tell everything, and hear nothing,
when it was really the other way about."

"So that was why he came up here so suddenly. Poor old man, he died game."

"And he lived game, which is more than I can say of some people higher up," was the gruff,
self-condemnatory appreciation of the dead.

The commissioner was just opening the door of the tent when a bustle and shouting, mingled
with the tinkle of sleigh-bells, announced the arrival of a dog-train.

"Hello, father!" cried Donald, "who's that?"

"An old and loved friend of yours."

"If I've got a real friend except Peter Rainy, please show him in."

"It's Angus Fitzpatrick."

"Well, you can show him out; shoot him if you want to. By the way, any one with him?" The sense
of dry humor that characterized the elder McTavish took in the situation at once. His eye twinkled
briefly.

"There's a round bundle of furs on the sledge. Why?"

"Well, you show that bundle of furs which is my tent, and watch it come to life," was Donald's
smiling order.

His father fussed and fumed in apparent rage for five minutes, and finally snapped out:

"Well, all right! But I always told your mother you would be spoiled, if she gratified every
one of your whims." Wherewith, he disappeared outside.

The next morning found a small and solemn gathering in the large tent that Commissioner McTavish
carried with him on his journeys de luxe. Present were Maria who had been rooted out of her
tree like a bear; Seguis and Donald (both carried in), the commissioner, Angus Fitzpatrick,
delirious with fever half the time, and Peter Rainy, gaunt with his record-breaking journey
of fourteen hundred miles in four weeks. The day before, there had been a fervent, but quiet,
reunion of the old Indian and his young master, in which the banter of the wounded man was
barely removed from tears of gratitude. Now, he sat on the edge of Donald's pile of skins,
and smoked his vile pipe with complete contentment.

It was a strange company. Angus Fitzpatrick, in the deserted camp of the Hudson Bay Company,
had risen from his bed, the old loyalty and discipline urging him on, and, in the face of death
itself, had come down at the command of his hated enemy and superior. To the last, he was the
uncompromising disciplinarian, more severe with himself than with the meanest underling. The
commissioner thought it best to secure Fitzpatrick's story while he yet retained his reason,
and addressed him first.

"When did you first learn of this scandal concerning me, Fitzpatrick?" he demanded. "No, lie
down!" he commanded, as the other attempted to rise.

"In the middle of last summer, sir. Maria, the squaw, came to me with certain proof that made
the evidence incontrovertible."

"What proof?"

"A signed statement by a well-known missionary, declaring that he had united you in marriage."

For an instant, there was the absolute silence of amazed horror, in which, presently, broke
the snorting and chuckling of Maria, who rocked herself back and forth on her haunches, like
some witch muttering over an evil brew.

"Where is that statement?" demanded the commissioner.

"Maria had it the last time I knew of its whereabouts." Fitzpatrick closed his eyes, wearily.

"Maria!" The commissioner's voice was sharp with command and disgust. The withered squaw suddenly
stopped her rocking, and opened her little, fire-shot eyes steadily for a moment.

"Douglas!" she said, pronouncing his first name with careless familiarity.

Fitzpatrick, at this breach of ceremony, rose, furious, on his pile of blankets, inarticulate.

But McTavish waved him back.

"Where is that certificate?"

"I have it," replied Maria, sullenly.

"Let me see it." Not many people resisted that tone of McTavish's.

"I refuse," she said.

"You refuse, eh?" The blue eyes darkened to ominous black. "If you repeat that, old woman,
you start with me for Winnipeg to-morrow, and you spend the rest of your life in jail. You
have done me enough injury already to land you in a dozen courts. I'll give you another chance.
Let me see that paper. And no funny business. I mean what I say, and you know it. We're at
the point now where you, or I, win forever. Come now, dig up, and be quick!"

Perhaps, the flinty hardness, the indifferent crispness, of that voice raised dim memories
in the woman's mind, for her glance wavered, for the first time.

"Come on, Maria," interposed Donald, as the old woman framed a whining reply, "the paper is
in that muskrat-skin bag around your neck. I know, because I've seen it."

She turned upon him, bristling like an angry cat.

"Yes, and be quick, or you'll have help you don't want," added the commissioner, coolly.

With a snarl, Maria thrust her hand into her meager bosom, and drew forth a little bag with
its draw-strings. Under the fascinated eyes of the group, she opened it, and carefully extracted
the worn paper.

"Please identify it, Fitzpatrick," ordered the commissioner, and the factor of Fort Severn
took the sheet in his hands.

"It's the same she showed me last summer," he said, after a careful examination. "I would know
the handwriting of Burns Riley, the missionary, anywhere."

"Good heavens!" cried the commissioner. "Did Burns Riley write and sign that?" He reached out
an agitated hand, and Fitzpatrick passed over the paper.

"Who was this Riley, father?" asked Donald.

"One of the first men to reach the Whale River districts," was the agitated answer. "When Fitzpatrick
and I were your age, he was one of the most famous characters in the Northland, because he
carried Christianity in either fist when it was necessary. But he was the squarest man that
ever lived, was old Burns."

"Is he dead now?"

"Yes, these fifteen years. Wait a minute. Let me see this." He ran his eyes slowly along the
faded lines, and read:

   This is to certify that on April 17, 1873, I united in marriage
   Douglas McTavish, fur trader at Fort Miskati, son of Duncan
   McTavish, pure Scotch, to Maria Seguis, Ojibway Indian. "Whom
   God hath joined together let no man put asunder."

   BURNS RILEY, Missionary.

That was all. McTavish saw his whole life go down in wreckage and ruin under the weight of
those five or six lines of writing. There was no question as to the authorship--he himself
recognized Riley's handwriting, though it was many years since he had seen any of it. And Riley's
name was the symbol of righteousness and squareness throughout his whole vast parish, and beyond.
The date was the spring that he and Maria had separated for the last time. But he was sure
that Riley never wrote the certificate as far back as that.

"If I only had an ink-and-writing expert here!" he groaned to himself. "But that writing is
Riley's all right," he admitted aloud.

Maria began to rock herself again, and to mutter. The commissioner changed his attack.

"Who's this man, Maria?" he suddenly asked, pointing to Charley Seguis.

"Your legitimate son and rightful heir," snapped the squaw, and she went on rocking, while
McTavish wrestled with a deadly impulse to strangle her.

"When was he born?"

