 I, too, was an innocent victim of it. The
whole Republic was a victim of that fundamental error of importing Africa into America. I held
firmly to the first article of my faith that the Republic must stand fast by the principle
of a fair ballot; but I recalled the wretched mess that Reconstruction had made of it; I recalled
the low level of public life in all the "black" States. Every effort of philanthropy seemed
to have miscarried, every effort at correcting abuses seemed of doubtful value, and the race
friction seemed to become severer. Here was the century-old problem in all its pathos seated
singing before me. Who were the more to be pitied--these innocent victims of an ancient wrong,
or I and men like me, who had inherited the problem? I had long ago thrown aside illusions
and theories, and was willing to meet the facts face to face, and to do whatever in God's name
a man might do towards saving the next generation from such a burden. But I felt the weight
of twenty well-nigh hopeless years of thought and reading and observation; for the old difficulties
remained and new ones had sprung up. Then I saw clearly that the way out of a century of blunders
had been made by this man who stood beside me and was introducing me to this audience. Before
me was the material he had used. All about me was the indisputable evidence that he had found
the natural line of development. He had shown the way. Time and patience and encouragement
and work would do the rest.

It was then more clearly than ever before that I understood the patriotic significance of Mr.
Washington's work. It is this conception of it and of him that I have ever since carried with
me. It is on this that his claim to our gratitude rests.

To teach the Negro to read, whether English, or Greek, or Hebrew, butters no parsnips. To make
the Negro work, that is what his master did in one way and hunger has done in another; yet
both these left Southern life where they found it. But to teach the Negro to do skilful work,
as men of all the races that have risen have worked,--responsible work, which IS education
and character; and most of all when Negroes so teach Negroes to do this that they will teach
others with a missionary zeal that puts all ordinary philanthropic efforts to shame,--this
is to change the whole economic basis of life and the whole character of a people.

The plan itself is not a new one. It was worked out at Hampton Institute, but it was done at
Hampton by white men. The plan had, in fact, been many times theoretically laid down by thoughtful
students of Southern life. Handicrafts were taught in the days of slavery on most well-managed
plantations. But Tuskegee is, nevertheless, a brand-new chapter in the history of the Negro,
and in the history of the knottiest problem we have ever faced. It not only makes "a carpenter
of a man; it makes a man of a carpenter." In one sense, therefore, it is of greater value than
any other institution for the training of men and women that we have, from Cambridge to Palo
Alto. It is almost the only one of which it may be said that it points the way to a new epoch
in a large area of our national life.

To work out the plan on paper, or at a distance--that is one thing. For a white man to work
it out--that too, is an easy thing. For a coloured man to work it out in the South, where,
in its constructive period, he was necessarily misunderstood by his own people as well as by
the whites, and where he had to adjust it at every step to the strained race relations--that
is so very different and more difficult a thing that the man who did it put the country under
lasting obligations to him.

It was not and is not a mere educational task. Anybody could teach boys trades and give them
an elementary education. Such tasks have been done since the beginning of civilization. But
this task had to be done with the rawest of raw material, done within the civilization of the
dominant race, and so done as not to run across race lines and social lines that are the strongest
forces in the community. It had to be done for the benefit of the whole community. It had to
be done, moreover, without local help, in the face of the direst poverty, done by begging,
and done in spite of the ignorance of one race and the prejudice of the other.

No man living had a harder task, and a task that called for more wisdom to do it right. The
true measure of Mr. Washington's success is, then, not his teaching the pupils of Tuskegee,
nor even gaining the support of philanthropic persons at a distance, but this--that every Southern
white man of character and of wisdom has been won to a cordial recognition of the value of
the work, even men who held and still hold to the conviction that a mere book education for
the Southern blacks under present conditions is a positive evil. This is a demonstration of
the efficiency of the Hampton-Tuskegee idea that stands like the demonstration of the value
of democratic institutions themselves--a demonstration made so clear in spite of the greatest
odds that it is no longer open to argument.

Consider the change that has come in twenty years in the discussion of the Negro problem. Two
or three decades ago social philosophers and statisticians and well-meaning philanthropists
were still talking and writing about the deportation of the Negroes, or about their settlement
within some restricted area, or about their settling in all parts of the Union, or about their
decline through their neglect of their children, or about their rapid multiplication till they
should expel the whites from the South--of every sort of nonsense under heaven. All this has
given place to the simple plan of an indefinite extension among the neglected classes of both
races of the Hampton-Tuskegee system of training. The "problem" in one sense has disappeared.
The future will have for the South swift or slow development of its masses and of its soil
in proportion to the swift or slow development of this kind of training. This change of view
is a true measure of Mr. Washington's work.

The literature of the Negro in America is colossal, from political oratory through abolitionism
to "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and "Cotton is King"--a vast mass of books which many men have read
to the waste of good years (and I among them); but the only books that I have read a second
time or ever care again to read in the whole list (most of them by tiresome and unbalanced
"reformers") are "Uncle Remus" and "Up from Slavery"; for these are the great literature of
the subject. One has all the best of the past, the other foreshadows a better future; and the
men who wrote them are the only men who have written of the subject with that perfect frankness
and perfect knowledge and perfect poise whose other name is genius.

Mr. Washington has won a world-wide fame at an early age. His story of his own life already
has the distinction of translation into more languages, I think, than any other American book;
and I suppose that he has as large a personal acquaintance among men of influence as any private
citizen now living.

His own teaching at Tuskegee is unique. He lectures to his advanced students on the art of
right living, not out of text-books, but straight out of life. Then he sends them into the
country to visit Negro families. Such a student will come back with a minute report of the
way in which the family that he has seen lives, what their earnings are, what they do well
and what they do ill; and he will explain how they might live better. He constructs a definite
plan for the betterment of that particular family out of the resources that they have. Such
a student, if he be bright, will profit more by an experience like this than he could profit
by all the books on sociology and economics that ever were written. I talked with a boy at
Tuskegee who had made such a study as this, and I could not keep from contrasting his knowledge
and enthusiasm with what I heard in a class room at a Negro university in one of the Southern
cities, which is conducted on the idea that a college course will save the soul. Here the class
was reciting a lesson from an abstruse text-book on economics, reciting it by rote, with so
obvious a failure to assimilate it that the waste of labour was pitiful.

I asked Mr. Washington years ago what he regarded as the most important result of his work,
and he replied:

"I do not know which to put first, the effect of Tuskegee's work on the Negro, or the effect
on the attitude of the white man to the Negro."

The race divergence under the system of miseducation was fast getting wider. Under the influence
of the Hampton-Tuskegee idea the races are coming into a closer sympathy and into an honourable
and helpful relation. As the Negro becomes economically independent, he becomes a responsible
part of the Southern life; and the whites so recognize him. And this must be so from the nature
of things. There is nothing artificial about it. It is development in a perfectly natural way.
And the Southern whites not only so recognize it, but they are imitating it in the teaching
of the neglected masses of their own race. It has thus come about that the school is taking
a more direct and helpful hold on life in the South than anywhere else in the country. Education
is not a thing apart from life--not a "system," nor a philosophy; it is direct teaching how
to live and how to work.

To say that Mr. Washington has won the gratitude of all thoughtful Southern white men, is to
say that he has worked with the highest practical wisdom at a large constructive task; for
no plan for the up-building of the freedman could succeed that ran counter to Southern opinion.
To win the support of Southern opinion and to shape it was a necessary part of the task; and
in this he has so well succeeded that the South has a sincere and high regard for him. He once
said to me that he recalled the day, and remembered it thankfully, when he grew large enough
to regard a Southern white man as he regarded a Northern one. It is well for our common country
that the day is come when he and his work are regarded as highly in the South as in any other
part of the Union. I think that no man of our generation has a more noteworthy achievement
to his credit than this; and it is an achievement of moral earnestness of the strong character
of a man who has done a great national service.

Walter H. Page.

UP FROM SLAVERY

Chapter I. A Slave Among Slaves

I was born a slave on a plantation in Franklin County, Virginia. I am not quite sure of the
exact place or exact date of my birth, but at any rate I suspect I must have been born somewhere
and at some time. As nearly as I have been able to learn, I was born near a cross-roads post-office
called Hale's Ford, and the year was 1858 or 1859. I do not know the month or the day. The
earliest impressions I can now recall are of the plantation and the slave quarters--the latter
being the part of the plantation where the slaves had their cabins.

My life had its beginning in the midst of the most miserable, desolate, and discouraging surroundings.
This was so, however, not because my owners were especially cruel, for they were not, as compared
with many others. I was born in a typical log cabin, about fourteen by sixteen feet square.
In this cabin I lived with my mother and a brother and sister till after the Civil War, when
we were all declared free.

Of my ancestry I know almost nothing. In the slave quarters, and even later, I heard whispered
conversations among the coloured people of the tortures which the slaves, including, no doubt,
my ancestors on my mother's side, suffered in the middle passage of the slave ship while being
conveyed from Africa to America. I have been unsuccessful in securing any information that
would throw any accurate light upon the history of my family beyond my mother. She, I remember,
had a half-brother and a half-sister. In the days of slavery not very much attention was given
to family history and family records--that is, black family records. My mother, I suppose,
attracted the attention of a purchaser who was afterward my owner and hers. Her addition to
the slave family attracted about as much attention as the purchase of a new horse or cow. Of
my father I know even less than of my mother. I do not even know his name. I have heard reports
to the effect that he was a white man who lived on one of the near-by plantations. Whoever
he was, I never heard of his taking the least interest in me or providing in any way for my
rearing. But I do not find especial fault with him. He was simply another unfortunate victim
of the institution which the Nation unhappily had engrafted upon it at that time.

The cabin was not only our living-place, but was also used as the kitchen for the plantation.
My mother was the plantation cook. The cabin was without glass windows; it had only openings
in the side which let in the light, and also the cold, chilly air of winter. There was a door
to the cabin--that is, something that was called a door--but the uncertain hinges by which
it was hung, and the large cracks in it, to say nothing of the fact that it was too small,
made the room a very uncomfortable one. In addition to these openings there was, in the lower
right-hand corner of the room, the "cat-hole,"--a contrivance which almost every mansion or
cabin in Virginia possessed during the ante-bellum period. The "cat-hole" was a square opening,
about seven by eight inches, provided for the purpose of letting the cat pass in and out of
the house at will during the night. In the case of our particular cabin I could never understand
the necessity for this convenience, since there were at least a half-dozen other places in
the cabin that would have accommodated the cats. There was no wooden floor in our cabin, the
naked earth being used as a floor. In the centre of the earthen floor there was a large, deep
opening covered with boards, which was used as a place in which to store sweet potatoes during
the winter. An impression of this potato-hole is very distinctly engraved upon my memory, because
I recall that during the process of putting the potatoes in or taking them out I would often
come into possession of one or two, which I roasted and thoroughly enjoyed. There was no cooking-stove
on our plantation, and all the cooking for the whites and slaves my mother had to do over an
open fireplace, mostly in pots and "skillets." While the poorly built cabin caused us to suffer
with cold in the winter, the heat from the open fireplace in summer was equally trying.

The early years of my life, which were spent in the little cabin, were not very different from
those of thousands of other slaves. My mother, of course, had little time in which to give
attention to the training of her children during the day. She snatched a few moments for our
care in the early morning before her work began, and at night after the day's work was done.
One of my earliest recollections is that of my mother cooking a chicken late at night, and
awakening her children for the purpose of feeding them. How or where she got it I do not know.
I presume, however, it was procured from our owner's farm. Some people may call this theft.
If such a thing were to happen now, I should condemn it as theft myself. But taking place at
the time it did, and for the reason that it did, no one could ever make me believe that my
mother was guilty of thieving. She was simply a victim of the system of slavery. I cannot remember
having slept in a bed until after our family was declared free by the Emancipation Proclamation.
Three children--John, my older brother, Amanda, my sister, and myself--had a pallet on the
dirt floor, or, to be more correct, we slept in and on a bundle of filthy rags laid upon the
dirt floor.

I was asked not long ago to tell something about the sports and pastimes that I engaged in
during my youth. Until that question was asked it had never occurred to me that there was no
period of my life that was devoted to play. From the time that I can remember anything, almost
every day of my life had been occupied in some kind of labour; though I think I would now be
a more useful man if I had had time for sports. During the period that I spent in slavery I
was not large enough to be of much service, still I was occupied most of the time in cleaning
the yards, carrying water to the men in the fields, or going to the mill to which I used to
take the corn, once a week, to be ground. The mill was about three miles from the plantation.
This work I always dreaded. The heavy bag of corn would be thrown across the back of the horse,
and the corn divided about evenly on each side; but in some way, almost without exception,
on these trips, the corn would so shift as to become unbalanced and would fall off the horse,
and often I would fall with it. As I was not strong enough to reload the corn upon the horse,
I would have to wait, sometimes for many hours, till a chance passer-by came along who would
help me out of my trouble. The hours while waiting for some one were usually spent in crying.
The time consumed in this way made me late in reaching the mill, and by the time I got my corn
ground and reached home it would be far into the night. The road was a lonely one, and often
led through dense forests. I was always frightened. The woods were said to be full of soldiers
who had deserted from the army, and I had been told that the first thing a deserter did to
a Negro boy when he found him alone was to cut off his ears. Besides, when I was late in getting
home I knew I would always get a severe scolding or a flogging.

I had no schooling whatever while I was a slave, though I remember on several occasions I went
as far as the schoolhouse door with one of my young mistresses to carry her books. The picture
of several dozen boys and girls in a schoolroom engaged in study made a deep impression upon
me, and I had the feeling that to get into a schoolhouse and study in this way would be about
the same as getting into paradise.

So far as I can now recall, the first knowledge that I got of the fact that we were slaves,
and that freedom of the slaves was being discussed, was early one morning before day, when
I was awakened by my mother kneeling over her children and fervently praying that Lincoln and
his armies might be successful, and that one day she and her children might be free. In this
connection I have never been able to understand how the slaves throughout the South, completely
ignorant as were the masses so far as books or newspapers were concerned, were able to keep
themselves so accurately and completely informed about the great National questions that were
agitating the country. From the time that Garrison, Lovejoy, and others began to agitate for
freedom, the slaves throughout the South kept in close touch with the progress of the movement.
Though I was a mere child during the preparation for the Civil War and during the war itself,
I now recall the many late-at-night whispered discussions that I heard my mother and the other
slaves on the plantation indulge in. These discussions showed that they understood the situation,
and that they kept themselves informed of events by what was termed the "grape-vine" telegraph.

During the campaign when Lincoln was first a candidate for the Presidency, the slaves on our
far-off plantation, miles from any railroad or large city or daily newspaper, knew what the
issues involved were. When war was begun between the North and the South, every slave on our
plantation felt and knew that, though other issues were discussed, the primal one was that
of slavery. Even the most ignorant members of my race on the remote plantations felt in their
hearts, with a certainty that admitted of no doubt, that the freedom of the slaves would be
the one great result of the war, if the northern armies conquered. Every success of the Federal
armies and every defeat of the Confederate forces was watched with the keenest and most intense
interest. Often the slaves got knowledge of the results of great battles before the white people
received it. This news was usually gotten from the coloured man who was sent to the post-office
for the mail. In our case the post-office was about three miles from the plantation, and the
mail came once or twice a week. The man who was sent to the office would linger about the place
long enough to get the drift of the conversation from the group of white people who naturally
congregated there, after receiving their mail, to discuss the latest news. The mail-carrier
on his way back to our master's house would as naturally retail the news that he had secured
among the slaves, and in this way they often heard of important events before the white people
at the "big house," as the master's house was called.

I cannot remember a single instance during my childhood or early boyhood when our entire family
sat down to the table together, and God's blessing was asked, and the family ate a meal in
a civilized manner. On the plantation in Virginia, and even later, meals were gotten by the
children very much as dumb animals get theirs. It was a piece of bread here and a scrap of
meat there. It was a cup of milk at one time and some potatoes at another. Sometimes a portion
of our family would eat out of the skillet or pot, while some one else would eat from a tin
plate held on the knees, and often using nothing but the hands with which to hold the food.
When I had grown to sufficient size, I was required to go to the "big house" at meal-times
to fan the flies from the table by means of a large set of paper fans operated by a pulley.
Naturally much of the conversation of the white people turned upon the subject of freedom and
the war, and I absorbed a good deal of it. I remember that at one time I saw two of my young
mistresses and some lady visitors eating ginger-cakes, in the yard. At that time those cakes
seemed to me to be absolutely the most tempting and desirable things that I had ever seen;
and I then and there resolved that, if I ever got free, the height of my ambition would be
reached if I could get to the point where I could secure and eat ginger-cakes in the way that
I saw those ladies doing.

Of course as the war was prolonged the white people, in many cases, often found it difficult
to secure food for themselves. I think the slaves felt the deprivation less than the whites,
because the usual diet for slaves was corn bread and pork, and these could be raised on the
plantation; but coffee, tea, sugar, and other articles which the whites had been accustomed
to use could not be raised on the plantation, and the conditions brought about by the war frequently
made it impossible to secure these things. The whites were often in great straits. Parched
corn was used for coffee, and a kind of black molasses was used instead of sugar. Many times
nothing was used to sweeten the so-called tea and coffee.

The first pair of shoes that I recall wearing were wooden ones. They had rough leather on the
top, but the bottoms, which were about an inch thick, were of wood. When I walked they made
a fearful noise, and besides this they were very inconvenient, since there was no yielding
to the natural pressure of the foot. In wearing them one presented and exceedingly awkward
appearance. The most trying ordeal that I was forced to endure as a slave boy, however, was
the wearing of a flax shirt. In the portion of Virginia where I lived it was common to use
flax as part of the clothing for the slaves. That part of the flax from which our clothing
was made was largely the refuse, which of course was the cheapest and roughest part. I can
scarcely imagine any torture, except, perhaps, the pulling of a tooth, that is equal to that
caused by putting on a new flax shirt for the first time. It is almost equal to the feeling
that one would experience if he had a dozen or more chestnut burrs, or a hundred small pin-points,
in contact with his flesh. Even to this day I can recall accurately the tortures that I underwent
when putting on one of these garments. The fact that my flesh was soft and tender added to
the pain. But I had no choice. I had to wear the flax shirt or none; and had it been left to
me to choose, I should have chosen to wear no covering. In connection with the flax shirt,
my brother John, who is several years older than I am, performed one of the most generous acts
that I ever heard of one slave relative doing for another. On several occasions when I was
being forced to wear a new flax shirt, he generously agreed to put it on in my stead and wear
it for several days, till it was "broken in." Until I had grown to be quite a youth this single
garment was all that I wore.

One may get the idea, from what I have said, that there was bitter feeling toward the white
people on the part of my race, because of the fact that most of the white population was away
fighting in a war which would result in keeping the Negro in slavery if the South was successful.
In the case of the slaves on our place this was not true, and it was not true of any large
portion of the slave population in the South where the Negro was treated with anything like
decency. During the Civil War one of my young masters was killed, and two were severely wounded.
I recall the feeling of sorrow which existed among the slaves when they heard of the death
of "Mars' Billy." It was no sham sorrow, but real. Some of the slaves had nursed "Mars' Billy";
others had played with him when he was a child. "Mars' Billy" had begged for mercy in the case
of others when the overseer or master was thrashing them. The sorrow in the slave quarter was
only second to that in the "big house." When the two young masters were brought home wounded,
the sympathy of the slaves was shown in many ways. They were just as anxious to assist in the
nursing as the family relatives of the wounded. Some of the slaves would even beg for the privilege
of sitting up at night to nurse their wounded masters. This tenderness and sympathy on the
part of those held in bondage was a result of their kindly and generous nature. In order to
defend and protect the women and children who were left on the plantations when the white males
went to war, the slaves would have laid down their lives. The slave who was selected to sleep
in the "big house" during the absence of the males was considered to have the place of honour.
Any one attempting to harm "young Mistress" or "old Mistress" during the night would have had
to cross the dead body of the slave to do so. I do not know how many have noticed it, but I
think that it will be found to be true that there are few instances, either in slavery or freedom,
in which a member of my race has been known to betray a specific trust.

As a rule, not only did the members of my race entertain no feelings of bitterness against
the whites before and during the war, but there are many instances of Negroes tenderly carrying
for their former masters and mistresses who for some reason have become poor and dependent
since the war. I know of instances where the former masters of slaves have for years been supplied
with money by their former slaves to keep them from suffering. I have known of still other
cases in which the former slaves have assisted in the education of the descendants of their
former owners. I know of a case on a large plantation in the South in which a young white man,
the son of the former owner of the estate, has become so reduced in purse and self-control
by reason of drink that he is a pitiable creature; and yet, notwithstanding the poverty of
the coloured people themselves on this plantation, they have for years supplied this young
white man with the necessities of life. One sends him a little coffee or sugar, another a little
meat, and so on. Nothing that the coloured people possess is too good for the son of "old Mars'
Tom," who will perhaps never be permitted to suffer while any remain on the place who knew
directly or indirectly of "old Mars' Tom."

I have said that there are few instances of a member of my race betraying a specific trust.
One of the best illustrations of this which I know of is in the case of an ex-slave from Virginia
whom I met not long ago in a little town in the state of Ohio. I found that this man had made
a contract with his master, two or three years previous to the Emancipation Proclamation, to
the effect that the slave was to be permitted to buy himself, by paying so much per year for
his body; and while he was paying for himself, he was to be permitted to labour where and for
whom he pleased. Finding that he could secure better wages in Ohio, he went there. When freedom
came, he was still in debt to his master some three hundred dollars. Notwithstanding that the
Emancipation Proclamation freed him from any obligation to his master, this black man walked
the greater portion of the distance back to where his old master lived in Virginia, and placed
the last dollar, with interest, in his hands. In talking to me about this, the man told me
that he knew that he did not have to pay the debt, but that he had given his word to the master,
and his word he had never broken. He felt that he could not enjoy his freedom till he had fulfilled
his promise.

From some things that I have said one may get the idea that some of the slaves did not want
freedom. This is not true. I have never seen one who did not want to be free, or one who would
return to slavery.

