8. Flowers have been specially adapted to the kinds of insects that most abound where they
grow. Thus the gentians of the lowlands are adapted to bees, those of the high alps to butterflies
only; and while most species of Rhinanthus (a genus to which our common "yellow rattle" belongs)
are bee-flowers, one high alpine species (R. alpinus) has been also adapted for fertilisation
by butterflies only. The reason of this is, that in the high alps butterflies are immensely
more plentiful than bees, and flowers adapted to be fertilised by bees can often have their
nectar extracted by butterflies without effecting cross-fertilisation. It is, therefore, important
to have a modification of structure which shall make butterflies the fertilisers, and this
in many cases has been done.[148]

9. Economy of time is very important both to the insects and the flowers, because the fine
working days are comparatively few, and if no time is wasted the bees will get more honey,
and in doing so will fertilise more flowers. Now, it has been ascertained by several observers
that many insects, bees especially, keep to one kind of flower at a time, visiting hundreds
of blossoms in succession, and passing over other species that may be mixed with them. They
thus acquire quickness in going at once to the nectar, and the change of colour in the flower,
or incipient withering when fertilised, enables them to avoid those flowers that have already
had their honey exhausted. It is probably to assist the insects in keeping to one flower at
a time, which is of vital importance to the perpetuation of the species, that the flowers which
bloom intermingled at the same season are usually very distinct both in form and colour. In
the sandy districts of Surrey, in the early spring, the copses are gay with three flowers--the
primrose, the wood-anemone, and the lesser celandine, forming a beautiful contrast, while at
the same time the purple and the white dead-nettles abound on hedge banks. A little later,
in the same copses, we have the blue wild hyacinth (Scilla nutans), the red campion (Lychnis
dioica), the pure white great starwort (Stellaria Holosteum), and the yellow dead-nettle (Lamium
Galeobdolon), all distinct and well-contrasted flowers. In damp meadows in summer we have the
ragged robin (Lychnis Floscuculi), the spotted orchis (O. maculata), and the yellow rattle
(Rhinanthus Crista-galli); while in drier meadows we have cowslips, ox-eye daisies, and buttercups,
all very distinct both in form and colour. So in cornfields we have the scarlet poppies, the
purple corn-cockle, the yellow corn-marygold, and the blue cornflower; while on our moors the
purple heath and the dwarf gorse make a gorgeous contrast. Thus the difference of colour which
enables the insect to visit with rapidity and unerring aim a number of flowers of the same
kind in succession, serves to adorn our meadows, banks, woods, and heaths with a charming variety
of floral colour and form at each season of the year.[149]

Fertilisation of Flowers by Birds.

In the temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, insects are the chief agents in cross-fertilisation
when this is not effected by the wind; but in warmer regions, and in the Southern hemisphere,
birds are found to take a considerable part in the operation, and have in many cases led to
modifications in the form and colour of flowers. Each part of the globe has special groups
of birds which are flower-haunters. America has the humming-birds (Trochilidae), and the smaller
group of the sugar-birds (Caerebidae). In the Eastern tropics the sun-birds (Nectarineidae)
take the place of the humming-birds, and another small group, the flower-peckers (Dicaeidae),
assist them. In the Australian region there are also two flower-feeding groups, the Meliphagidae,
or honey-suckers, and the brush-tongued lories (Trichoglossidae). Recent researches by American
naturalists have shown that many flowers are fertilised by humming-birds, such as passion-flowers,
trumpet-flowers, fuchsias, and lobelias; while some, as the Salvia splendens of Mexico, are
specially adapted to their visits. We may thus perhaps explain the number of very large tubular
flowers in the tropics, such as the huge brugmansias and bignonias; while in the Andes and
in Chile, where humming-birds are especially plentiful, we find great numbers of red tubular
flowers, often of large size and apparently adapted to these little creatures. Such are the
beautiful Lapageria and Philesia, the grand Pitcairneas, and the genera Fuchsia, Mitraria,
Embothrium, Escallonia, Desfontainea, Eccremocarpus, and many Gesneraceae. Among the most extraordinary
modifications of flower structure adapted to bird fertilisation are the species of Marcgravia,
in which the pedicels and bracts of the terminal portion of a pendent bunch of flowers have
been modified into pitchers which secrete nectar and attract insects, while birds feeding on
the nectar, or insects, have the pollen of the overhanging flowers dusted on their backs, and,
carrying it to other flowers, thus cross-fertilise them (see Illustration).

In Australia and New Zealand the fine "glory peas" (Clianthus), the Sophora, Loranthus, many
Epacrideae and Myrtaceae, and the large flowers of the New Zealand flax (Phormium tenax), are
cross-fertilised by birds; while in Natal the fine trumpet-creeper (Tecoma capensis) is fertilised
by Nectarineas.

The great extent to which insect and bird agency is necessary to flowers is well shown by the
case of New Zealand. The entire country is comparatively poor in species of insects, especially
in bees and butterflies which are the chief flower fertilisers; yet according to the researches
of local botanists no less than one-fourth of all the flowering plants are incapable of self-fertilisation,
and, therefore, wholly dependent on insect or bird agency for the continuance of the species.

The facts as to the cross-fertilisation of flowers which have now been very briefly summarised,
taken in connection with Darwin's experiments proving the increased vigour and fertility given
by cross-fertilisation, seem amply to justify his aphorism that "Nature abhors self-fertilisation,"
and his more precise statement, that, "No plant is perpetually self-fertilised;" and this view
has been upheld by Hildebrand, Delpino, and other botanists.[150]

Self-Fertilisation of Flowers.

But all this time we have been only looking at one side of the question, for there exists an
abundance of facts which seem to imply, just as surely, the utter uselessness of cross-fertilisation.
Let us, then, see what these facts are before proceeding further.

1. An immense variety of plants are habitually self-fertilised, and their numbers probably
far exceed those which are habitually cross-fertilised by insects. Almost all the very small
or obscure flowered plants with hermaphrodite flowers are of this kind. Most of these, however,
may be insect fertilised occasionally, and may, therefore, come under the rule that no species
are perpetually self-fertilised.

2. There are many plants, however, in which special arrangements exist to secure self-fertilisation.
Sometimes the corolla closes and brings the anthers and stigma into contact; in others the
anthers cluster round the stigmas, both maturing together, as in many buttercups, stitchwort
(Stellaria media), sandwort (Spergula), and some willow-herbs (Epilobium); or they arch over
the pistil, as in Galium aparine and Alisma Plantago. The style is also modified to bring it
into contact with the anthers, as in the dandelion, groundsel, and many other plants.[151]
All these, however, may be occasionally cross-fertilised.

