Passing down this street, Ænone came to a spot where one of the great aqueducts which supplied
the city, crossed the roadway diagonally with a single span. At the right hand stood a small
brick house, built into the nearest arch so snugly that it seemed as though its occupants could
almost hear the gurgling of the water flowing overhead from the hills of Albanus. Like the
other houses in its neighborhood, it had a small courtyard in front, planted with a shrub or
two. This was the home of her father, the centurion Porthenus. Stopping here, she was about
to enter without warning, according to her usual custom, but as she advanced, a dwarf, whom
she recognized as the same which that morning had so eagerly presented himself for notice in
the front of her husband's captives, sprang forward, grinned his recognition of the armor bearer,
made another grimace expressive of mingled respect and admiration for herself, threw open the
door, and ushered her in with an outburst of ceremonious pride befitting an imperial reception.

At a back window of the house, from whence the line of aqueduct could be seen for some distance
leaping houses and streets in its undeviating course to the centre of the city, sat the centurion.
He was a man of medium height, short necked, and thick set, with blunted features and grizzled
hair and beard. Two of the fingers of his left hand were wanting, and a broad scar, the trophy
of a severe skirmish among the Alemanni, crossed his right cheek and one side of his nose,
giving him an expression more curious than pleasing. His general appearance was after the common
type of an old, war-worn soldier, rough and unscrupulous by nature, hardened by camp life and
dissipation, grown cruel by excess of petty authority, overbearing with his inferiors, jovial
and complaisant with his equals, cringing to his superiors, and with an air of discontent overlaying
every other expression, as though he was continually tortured with the belief that his success
in life had not equalled his merits. As Ænone entered, he was bending over a shield, and earnestly
engaged in burnishing its brazen mouldings. At his side leaned a short sword, awaiting similar
attention, and in a rack beside him were a number of weapons of different varieties and sizes,
which had already submitted to his restorative skill, and now shone like glass.

Hearing her light step, he looked up, arose, flung the shield into a corner, and, with a roar,
as though ordering a battalion, called out to the grinning dwarf, who had followed her in:

"Ho there, ape! A seat for my daughter, the wife of the imperator Sergius Vanno!"

The dwarf sprang forward and dragged out a seat for her; having done which, he seemed about
to yield to his curiosity and remain. But the centurion, disapproving of such freedom, made
a lunge at him with the small sword, before which the dwarf retired with a precipitate leap,
and joined the bondwoman and armor bearer outside. Then the father, being left alone with his
daughter, embraced her, and uttered such words of welcome as his rough nature suggested.

As regarded his intercourse with her, perhaps the most noticeable traits were the mingled reverence
and familiarity with which he treated her. It seemed as though he was actuated by an ever-pervading
consciousness that her exalted position demanded the observance of the deepest respect toward
her; but that this feeling was connected in his mind with an unceasing struggle to remember
that, after all, she was his own child, and as such was not entitled to any undue consideration
from him. Upon the present occasion, he first timidly touched her cheek with his lips and uttered
a gentle and almost courtly salutation; but immediately recollecting himself, and appearing
to become impressed with the belief that his unwitting deference was unworthy of the character
of a father, he proceeded to atone for the mistake by a rough and discomposing embrace, and
such a familiar and frolicksome greeting as none but a camp follower would have felt flattered
with. Then, seating himself before her, he commenced his conversation in a rude and uncouth
tone, and with rather a forced affectation of military bluntness; from which, however, as his
eye dwelt upon the richness of her apparel and his mind began to succumb to the charm of her
native refinement, he gradually and unconsciously subsided, in turn, into his former soft and
deferential manner.

'And so the imperator Sergius Vanno has returned,' he said, rolling upon his tongue, with evident
satisfaction, that high-sounding title--once the acknowledged appellation of a conqueror, but
now claimed as a right by the imperial line alone, and no longer elsewhere bestowed except
as an informal and transitory compliment. 'It was a splendid ovation, and well earned by a
glorious campaign. There is no one in all the Roman armies who could have managed it better.'

Nevertheless, with unconscious inconsistency, he immediately began to show wherein the campaign
could have been improved, and how many gross mistakes were visible in every portion of it--how
the force of Mutius should have been diverged more in advancing inland--how, in the battle
along the shore, the three-oared galleys of Agricola should have been drawn up to support the
attack--the consequence of this omission, if the leading cohort had met with a repulse--and
the like. All this he marked out upon the floor with a piece of coal, taking but little heed
that Ænone could not follow him; and step by step, in the ardor of criticism, he advanced so
far that he was soon ready to prove that the campaign had been most wofully misconducted, and
was only indebted to accident for success.

'But it is of little use for me to talk, if I cannot act as well,' he at length concluded,
rising from the floor. 'And how could I act any part, placed as I am? The father of the wife
of the imperator Sergius Vanno should be the leader of a cohort rather than of a mere century;
and be otherwise lodged than in this poor place. Then would they listen to him.'

He spoke bitterly and enviously, exhibiting in his whole tone as well as in his words his besetting
weakness. For a while Ænone did not answer. It was as far from her duty as from her taste and
pleasure to remind him, even if she could have done so to his comprehension, that her husband
had already advanced him as far as was possible or fitting, and had otherwise provided for
him in various ways as well as could reasonably be expected. The views of the centurion were
of a far different nature. In giving his daughter to the patrician he had meanly intended thereby
to rise high in life--had anticipated ready promotion beyond what his ignorance would have
justified--had supposed that he would be admitted upon an equal social footing among the friends
of Sergius, not realizing that his own native roughness and brutishness must have forbidden
such a connection--had dazzled his eyes too wilfully with pictures of the wealth and influence
and glory that would fall to his lot. As long, therefore, as so many of those gilded imaginings
had failed in their promise, it seemed as nothing to him that Sergius, in the first flush of
admiration for the daughter, had removed the father from rough provincial to more pleasing
and relaxing urban duties, had purchased him a house befitting his station, and had lightened
his condition in various ways.

'But we are gradually doing better,' Ænone said at length, striving to cheer him by identifying
her fortunes more nearly with his own, 'This is a finer place than we had to live in at Ostia.
Think how narrow and crowded we were then. And now I see that we have a new slave to open for
us, while at Ostia we had only old Mitus. Indeed, we are very comfortable.'

'Ay, ay,' growled the centurion; 'a new slave--a dwarf or idiot, or what not--just such a creature
as would not bring five sestertia in the market; and, therefore, the imperator has cast him
to me, like a bare bone to a dog. Tell him I thank him for the gift. And in this matter it
has been with me as always heretofore--either no luck at all, or too much. How often have I
not passed a campaign without taking a prisoner, while they fell in crowds to all around me?
And when at last I gained my share, when was it ever of any value to me, being hundreds of
miles from a market? And here it is the same again. For months, no slave at all; and then all
at once there are two, and I shall be,eaten out of my house.'

'Two, father?'

'Listen to me. No sooner did your honored lord send me this dwarf, than arrives Tisiphon of
the twelfth cohort. He had long owed me a slave; and now that a captive, poor and feeble, and
likely to die, had fallen into his hands, he thought it a fair opportunity to acquit himself
toward me. But for once Tisiphon has cheated himself. The slave he brought was weak and sick,
but it was only from want of food and rest. The fellow will recover, and I will yet make much
of him. Would you see him? Look out of the back window there. He will turn out a fine slave
yet, and, if this dwarf had not come, would be right pleasing to me. But two of them! How shall
I find bread for both?'

Ænone walked to the window, and leaned out. The courtyard behind was but limited in size, containing
a few squares of burnt brick arranged for pavement around a small plot of grass at the foot
of a single plane tree. The slave of whom the centurion spoke was seated upon this plot, with
his back against the tree, and his head bent over, while, with vacant mind, he watched the
play of a small green lizard. As she appeared at the window, he raised his eyes toward her,
then dropped them again upon the ground. It was hardly, in fact, as much as could be called
a look--a mere glance, rather, a single tremor of the drooping lid, a mute appeal for sympathy,
as though there had been an inner instinct which, at that instant, had directed him to her,
as one who could feel pity for his trouble and desolation. But at that glance, joined to something
strangely peculiar in the captive's figure and attitude, a nervous thrill shot through Ænone's
heart, causing her to hold her breath in unreasoning apprehension; a fear of something which
she could not explain, a dim consciousness of some forgotten association of the past arising
to confront her, but which she could not for the moment identify. And still she looked out,
resisting the impulse of dread which bade her move away, fixing a strained gaze upon the captive,
in a vain struggle to allay, by one moment of calm scrutiny, that phantom of her memory which,
act as she might, would not be repressed, but which each instant seemed to expand into clearer
certainty before her.

'Do you see him? Does he appear to you a worthy slave?' cried the centurion.

'A worthy slave, indeed,' she answered, in a low tone, feeling compelled to make some response.

At her voice, the captive again raised his head, and looked into her face; not now with a hasty,
timid glance, but with the full gaze of one who believes he has been spoken to, and waits for
a renewal of the question. And as she met the inquiring look, Ænone turned away and sank back
in terror and dismay. She knew it all, now, nor could she longer deceive herself by vain pretences
or assurances. The instinct which, at the first had filled her soul with that unexplained dread,
had not been false to her. For that glance, as it now rested upon her with, longer duration
and deeper intensity, too surely completed the suggestion which, at the first it had faintly
whispered to her, flashing into her heart the long-stifled memories of the past, recalling
the time when, a few years before, she had sat upon the rock at Ostia, and had gazed down upon
eyes lifted to meet her own with just so beseeching an appeal, and telling her too truly that
she stood again in the presence of him to whom she had then promised her girlish faith, and
whom she had so long since looked upon as dead to her.

'I will call him in,' said the centurion, 'and you can see him closer.'

'Nay, nay, father; let him remain where he is,' she exclaimed, in uncontrollable dread of recognition.

'Ha! art not afraid, girl?' demanded the old man. 'He can do no hurt, even were he stronger;
and now that he is weak, a child could lead him with a string. Come hither, sirrah!'

The captive arose, smoothed down his tunic, and, obediently entering the house, awaited commands;
while Ænone, with as quiet movement as possible, shrunk, into the most distant corner of the
room. What if he should recognize her, and should call upon her by name, not knowing her changed
position, or recollecting his own debasement into slavery? What explanation other than the
true one could she give to account for his audacity, and save him from the chastisement which
the offended centurion would prepare to bestow upon him? This was but a momentary fear, however,
since she felt that the increasing glow of evening, added to her own alteration by dress, and
the certainty that he would not expect to meet her thus, found a sure protection against recognition,
as long as she took care not to risk betrayal by her voice or manner. And, perhaps, after all--and
her heart lightened somewhat at the thought--it might be that her reason had too freely yielded
to an insane fancy, and allowed her to be deceived by a chance resemblance.

'How is he called?' she inquired, disguising her voice as thoroughly as she could. The instant
she had spoken she would have retracted her words, if possible, from the mere fear lest her
father, in his response, might mention her name. But it luckily chanced that the centurion
did not do so.

'How is he called? Nay, that thing I had not thought to ask as yet. Your name, slave?'

'Cleotos.'

At the word, the blood again flew back to her heart. There could now no longer be a doubt.
How often had she repeated that name endearingly, in those early days of her first romance in life!

'Cleotos,' said the centurion. 'It is a brave name. There was once a leader of a full phalanx
with that name, and he did well to the empire. It is, therefore, scarcely a name for a slave
to bear. But we will talk some other time about that. It is of thine appearance now, that we
will speak. Is he not, after all, a pleasing youth? Did Tisiphon so surely deceive me as he
intended, when he gave the man to me? See! there is but little brawn and muscle to him, I grant;
and therefore he will not make a good gladiator or even spearman; but he has a comely shape,
which will fit him well for a page or palace usher. And, therefore, I will sell him for such.
He should bring a good price, indeed, when the marks of his toil and sickness have gone off
from him, and he has been fattened into better condition. But two of them!' continued the centurion,
suddenly recurring to his former source of grief. 'How can I fatten him when there are two
of them? How find bread for both? And yet he is not so very thin, now. I will light a lamp,
daughter, for it has grown quite dark, and you shall come nearer and examine him.'

'Nay! nay!' exclaimed Ænone, in hurried resistance of this new danger. 'Not now. I am no judge
of the merits of captives, and it is getting late. I know that my lord will be expecting me,
and perchance will be vexed if I delay.'

'Be it so, then,' responded the other. 'And as it is dark, it is not befitting that you should
go without escort. Take, therefore--'

