Frontispiece: Abraham Lincoln]

MEMORIAL ADDRESS

ON THE

LIFE AND CHARACTER

OF

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

DELIVERED,

AT THE REQUEST OF BOTH HOUSES OF THE

CONGRESS OF AMERICA,

BEFORE THEM,

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

AT WASHINGTON,

ON THE 12TH OF FEBRUARY, 1866.

BY GEORGE BANCROFT.

WASHINGTON:

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.

1866.

ORATION.

SENATORS,
  REPRESENTATIVES OF AMERICA:

That God rules in the affairs of men is as certain as any truth of physical science. On the
great moving power which is from the beginning hangs the world of the senses and the world
of thought and action. Eternal wisdom marshals the great procession of the nations, working
in patient continuity through the ages, never halting and never abrupt, encompassing all events
in its oversight, and ever effecting its will, though mortals may slumber in apathy or oppose
with madness. Kings are lifted up or thrown down, nations come and go, republics flourish and
wither, dynasties pass away like a tale that is told; but nothing is by chance, though men,
in their ignorance of causes, may think so. The deeds of time are governed, as well as judged,
by the decrees of eternity. The caprice of fleeting existences bends to the immovable omnipotence,
which plants its foot on all the centuries and has neither change of purpose nor repose. Sometimes,
like a messenger through the thick darkness of night, it steps along mysterious ways; but when
the hour strikes for a people, or for mankind, to pass into a new form of being, unseen hands
draw the bolts from the gates of futurity; an all-subduing influence prepares the minds of
men for the coming revolution; those who plan resistance find themselves in conflict with the
will of Providence rather than with human devices; and all hearts and all understandings, most
of all the opinions and influences of the unwilling, are wonderfully attracted and compelled
to bear forward the change, which becomes more an obedience to the law of universal nature
than submission to the arbitrament of man.

In the fulness of time a republic rose up in the wilderness of America. Thousands of years
had passed away before this child of the ages could be born. From whatever there was of good
in the systems of former centuries she drew her nourishment; the wrecks of the past were her
warnings. With the deepest sentiment of faith fixed in her inmost nature, she disenthralled
religion from bondage to temporal power, that her worship might be worship only in spirit and
in truth. The wisdom which had passed from India through Greece, with what Greece had added
of her own; the jurisprudence of Rome; the mediaeval municipalities; the Teutonic method of
representation; the political experience of England; the benignant wisdom of the expositors
of the law of nature and of nations in France and Holland, all shed on her their selectest
influence. She washed the gold of political wisdom from the sands wherever it was found; she
cleft it from the rocks; she gleaned it among ruins. Out of all the discoveries of statesmen
and sages, out of all the experience of past human life, she compiled a perennial political
philosophy, the primordial principles of national ethics. The wise men of Europe sought the
best government in a mixture of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy; America went behind these
names to extract from them the vital elements of social forms, and blend them harmoniously
in the free commonwealth, which comes nearest to the illustration of the natural equality of
all men. She intrusted the guardianship of established rights to law, the movements of reform
to the spirit of the people, and drew her force from the happy reconciliation of both.

Republics had heretofore been limited to small cantons, or cities and their dependencies; America,
doing that of which the like had not before been known upon the earth, or believed by kings
and statesmen to be possible, extended her republic across a continent. Under her auspices
the vine of liberty took deep root and filled the land; the hills were covered with its shadow,
its boughs were like the goodly cedars, and reached unto both oceans. The fame of this only
daughter of freedom went out into all the lands of the earth; from her the human race drew hope.

Neither hereditary monarchy nor hereditary aristocracy planted itself on our soil; the only
hereditary condition that fastened itself upon us was servitude. Nature works in sincerity,
and is ever true to its law. The bee hives honey; the viper distils poison; the vine stores
its juices, and so do the poppy and the upas. In like manner every thought and every action
ripens its seed, each according to its kind. In the individual man, and still more in a nation,
a just idea gives life, and progress, and glory; a false conception portends disaster, shame,
and death. A hundred and twenty years ago a West Jersey Quaker wrote: "This trade of importing
slaves is dark gloominess hanging over the land; the consequences will be grievous to posterity."
At the north the growth of slavery was arrested by natural causes; in the region nearest the
tropics it throve rankly, and worked itself into the organism of the rising States. Virginia
stood between the two, with soil, and climate, and resources demanding free labor, yet capable
of the profitable employment of the slave. She was the land of great statesmen, and they saw
the danger of her being whelmed under the rising flood in time to struggle against the delusions
of avarice and pride. Ninety-four years ago the legislature of Virginia addressed the British
king, saying that the trade in slaves was "of great inhumanity," was opposed to the "security
and happiness" of their constituents, "would in time have the most destructive influence,"
and "endanger their very existence." And the king answered them that, "upon pain of his highest
displeasure, the importation of slaves should not be in any respect obstructed." "Pharisaical
Britain," wrote Franklin in behalf of Virginia, "to pride thyself in setting free a single
slave that happened to land on thy coasts, while thy laws continue a traffic whereby so many
hundreds of thousands are dragged into a slavery that is entailed on their posterity." "A serious
view of this subject," said Patrick Henry in 1773, "gives a gloomy prospect to future times."
In the same year George Mason wrote to the legislature of Virginia: "The laws of impartial
Providence may avenge our injustice upon our posterity." Conforming his conduct to his convictions,
Jefferson, in Virginia, and in the Continental Congress, with the approval of Edmund Pendleton,
branded the slave-trade as piracy; and he fixed in the Declaration of Independence, as the
corner-stone of America: "All men are created equal, with an unalienable right to liberty."
On the first organization of temporary governments for the continental domain, Jefferson, but
for the default of New Jersey, would, in 1784, have consecrated every part of that territory
to freedom. In the formation of the national Constitution, Virginia, opposed by a part of New
England, vainly struggled to abolish the slave-trade at once and forever; and when the ordinance
of 1787 was introduced by Nathan Dane without the clause prohibiting slavery, it was through
the favorable disposition of Virginia and the South that the clause of Jefferson was restored,
and the whole northwestern territory--all the territory that then belonged to the nation--was
reserved for the labor of freemen.

The hope prevailed in Virginia that the abolition of the slave-trade would bring with it the
gradual abolition of slavery; but the expectation was doomed to disappointment. Good and true
men had, from the days of 1776, suggested the colonizing of the negro in the home of his ancestors;
but the idea of colonization was thought to increase the difficulty of emancipation, and, in
spite of strong support, while it accomplished much good for Africa, it proved impracticable
as a remedy at home. Madison, who in early life disliked slavery so much that he wished "to
depend as little as possible on the labor of slaves;" Madison, who held that where slavery
exists "the republican theory becomes fallacious;" Madison, who in the last years of his life
would not consent to the annexation of Texas, lest his countrymen should fill it with slaves;
Madison, who said, "slavery is the greatest evil under which the nation labors--a portentous
evil--an evil, moral, political, and economical--a sad blot on our free country"--went mournfully
into old age with the cheerless words: "No satisfactory plan has yet been devised for taking
out the stain."

The men of the Revolution passed away; a new generation sprang up, impatient that an institution
to which they clung should be condemned as inhuman, unwise, and unjust. In the throes of discontent
at the self-reproach of their fathers, and blinded by the lustre of wealth to be acquired by
the culture of a new staple, they devised the theory that slavery, which they would not abolish,
was not evil, but good. They turned on the friends of colonization, and confidently demanded:
"Why take black men from a civilized and Christian country, where their labor is a source of
immense gain, and a power to control the markets of the world, and send them to a land of ignorance,
idolatry, and indolence, which was the home of their forefathers, but not theirs? Slavery is
a blessing. Were they not in their ancestral land naked, scarcely lifted above brutes, ignorant
of the course of the sun, controlled by nature? And in their new abode have they not been taught
to know the difference of the seasons, to plough, and plant, and reap, to drive oxen, to tame
the horse, to exchange their scanty dialect for the richest of all the languages among men,
and the stupid adoration of follies for the purest religion? And since slavery is good for
the blacks, it is good for their masters, bringing opulence and the opportunity of educating
a race. The slavery of the black is good in itself; he shall serve the white man forever."
And nature, which better understood the quality of fleeting interest and passion, laughed as
it caught the echo, "man" and "forever!"

A regular development of pretensions followed the new declaration with logical consistency.
Under the old declaration every one of the States had retained, each for itself, the right
of manumitting all slaves by an ordinary act of legislation; now the power of the people over
servitude through their legislatures was curtailed, and the privileged class was swift in imposing
legal and constitutional obstructions on the people themselves. The power of emancipation was
narrowed or taken away. The slave might not be disquieted by education. There remained an unconfessed
consciousness that the system of bondage was wrong, and a restless memory that it was at variance
with the true American tradition; its safety was therefore to be secured by political organization.
The generation that made the Constitution took care for the predominance of freedom in Congress
by the ordinance of Jefferson; the new school aspired to secure for slavery an equality of
votes in the Senate, and, while it hinted at an organic act that should concede to the collective
South a veto power on national legislation, it assumed that each State separately had the right
to revise and nullify laws of the United States, according to the discretion of its judgment.

The new theory hung as a bias on the foreign relations of the country; there could be no recognition
of Hayti, nor even of the American colony of Liberia; and the world was given to understand
that the establishment of free labor in Cuba would be a reason for wresting that island from
Spain. Territories were annexed--Louisiana, Florida, Texas, half of Mexico; slavery must have
its share in them all, and it accepted for a time a dividing line between the unquestioned
domain of free labor and that in which involuntary labor was to be tolerated. A few years passed
away, and the new school, strong and arrogant, demanded and received an apology for applying
the Jefferson proviso to Oregon.

The application of that proviso was interrupted for three administrations, but justice moved
steadily onward. In the news that the men of California had chosen freedom, Calhoun heard the
knell of parting slavery, and on his death-bed he counselled secession. Washington, and Jefferson,
and Madison had died despairing of the abolition of slavery; Calhoun died in despair at the
growth of freedom. His system rushed irresistibly to its natural development. The death-struggle
for California was followed by a short truce; but the new school of politicians, who said that
slavery was not evil, but good, soon sought to recover the ground they had lost, and, confident
of securing Kansas, they demanded that the established line in the Territories between freedom
and slavery should be blotted out. The country, believing in the strength and enterprise and
expansive energy of freedom, made answer, though reluctantly: "Be it so; let there be no strife
between brethren; let freedom and slavery compete for the Territories on equal terms, in a
fair field, under an impartial administration;" and on this theory, if on any, the contest
might have been left to the decision of time.

The South started back in appalment from its victory, for it knew that a fair competition foreboded
its defeat. But where could it now find an ally to save it from its own mistake? What I have
next to say is spoken with no emotion but regret. Our meeting to-day is, as it were, at the
grave, in the presence of eternity, and the truth must be uttered in soberness and sincerity.
In a great republic, as was observed more than two thousand years ago, any attempt to overturn
the state owes its strength to aid from some branch of the government. The Chief Justice of
the United States, without any necessity or occasion, volunteered to come to the rescue of
the theory of slavery; and from his court there lay no appeal but to the bar of humanity and
history. Against the Constitution, against the memory of the nation, against a previous decision,
against a series of enactments, he decided that the slave is property; that slave property
is entitled to no less protection than any other property; that the Constitution upholds it
in every Territory against any act of a local legislature, and even against Congress itself;
or, as the President for that term tersely promulgated the saying, "Kansas is as much a slave
State as South Carolina or Georgia; slavery, by virtue of the Constitution, exists in every
Territory." The municipal character of slavery being thus taken away, and slave property decreed
to be "sacred," the authority of the courts was invoked to introduce it by the comity of law
into States where slavery had been abolished, and in one of the courts of the United States
a judge pronounced the African slave-trade legitimate, and numerous and powerful advocates
demanded its restoration.

Moreover, the Chief Justice, in his elaborate opinion, announced what had never been heard
from any magistrate of Greece or Rome; what was unknown to civil law, and canon law, and feudal
law, and common law, and constitutional law; unknown to Jay, to Rutledge, Ellsworth, and Marshall--that
there are "slave races." The spirit of evil is intensely logical. Having the authority of this
decision, five States swiftly followed the earlier example of a sixth, and opened the way for
reducing the free negro to bondage; the migrating free negro became a slave if he but entered
within the jurisdiction of a seventh; and an eighth, from its extent, and soil, and mineral
resources, destined to incalculable greatness, closed its eyes on its coming, prosperity, and
enacted, as by Taney's dictum it had the right to do, that every free black man who would live
within its limits must accept the condition of slavery for himself and his posterity.

Only one step more remained to be taken. Jefferson and the leading statesmen of his day held
fast to the idea that the enslavement of the African was socially, morally, and politically
wrong. The new school was founded exactly upon the opposite idea; and they resolved, first,
to distract the democratic party, for which the Supreme Court had now furnished the means,
and then to establish a new government, with negro slavery for its corner-stone, as socially,
morally, and politically right.

As the Presidential election drew on, one of the great traditional parties did not make its
appearance; the other reeled as it sought to preserve its old position, and the candidate who
most nearly represented its best opinion, driven by patriotic zeal, roamed the country from
end to end to speak for union, eager, at least, to confront its enemies, yet not having hope
that it would find its deliverance through him. The storm rose to a whirlwind; who should allay
its wrath? The most experienced statesmen of the country had failed; there was no hope from
those who were great after the flesh: could relief come from one whose wisdom was like the
wisdom of little children?

The choice of America fell on a man born west of the Alleghanies, in the cabin of poor people
of Hardin county, Kentucky--ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

His mother could read, but not write; his father could do neither; but his parents sent him,
with an old spelling-book, to school, and he learned in his childhood to do both.

When eight years old he floated down the Ohio with his father on a raft, which bore the family
and all their possessions to the shore of Indiana; and, child as he was, he gave help as they
toiled through dense forests to the interior of Spencer county. There, in the land of free
labor, he grew up in a log-cabin, with the solemn solitude for his teacher in his meditative
hours. Of Asiatic literature he knew only the Bible; of Greek, Latin, and mediaeval, no more
than the translation of Aesop's Fables; of English, John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. The traditions
of George Fox and William Penn passed to him dimly along the lines of two centuries through
his ancestors, who were Quakers.

Otherwise his education was altogether American. The Declaration of Independence was his compendium
of political wisdom, the Life of Washington his constant study, and something of Jefferson
and Madison reached him through Henry Clay, whom he honored from boyhood. For the rest, from
day to day, he lived the life of the American people, walked in its light, reasoned with its
reason, thought with its power of thought, felt the beatings of its mighty heart, and so was
in every way a child of nature, a child of the West, a child of America.

At nineteen, feeling impulses of ambition to get on in the world, he engaged himself to go
down the Mississippi in a flatboat, receiving ten dollars a month for his wages, and afterwards
he made the trip once more. At twenty-one he drove his father's cattle, as the family migrated
to Illinois, and split rails to fence in the new homestead in the wild. At twenty-three he
was a captain of volunteers in the Black Hawk war. He kept a store. He learned something of
surveying, but of English literature he added to Bunyan nothing but Shakspeare's plays. At
twenty-five he was elected to the legislature of Illinois, where he served eight years. At
twenty-seven he was admitted to the bar. In 1837 he chose his home at Springfield, the beautiful
centre of the richest land in the State. In 1847 he was a member of the national Congress,
where he voted about forty times in favor of the principle of the Jefferson proviso. In 1849
he sought, eagerly but unsuccessfully, the place of Commissioner of the Land Office, and he
refused an appointment that would have transferred his residence to Oregon. In 1854 he gave
his influence to elect from Illinois, to the American Senate, a Democrat, who would certainly
do justice to Kansas. In 1858, as the rival of Douglas, he went before the people of the mighty
Prairie State, saying, "This Union cannot permanently endure half slave and half free; the
Union will not be dissolved, but the house will cease to be divided;" and now, in 1861, with
no experience whatever as an executive officer, while States were madly flying from their orbit,
and wise men knew not where to find counsel, this descendant of Quakers, this pupil of Bunyan,
this offspring of the great West, was elected President of America.

He measured the difficulty of the duty that devolved upon him, and was resolved to fulfil it.
As on the eleventh of February, 1861, he left Springfield, which for a quarter of a century
had been his happy home, to the crowd of his friends and neighbors, whom he was never more
to meet, he spoke a solemn farewell: "I know not how soon I shall see you again. A duty has
devolved upon me, greater than that which has devolved upon any other man since Washington.
He never would have succeeded, except for the aid of Divine Providence, upon which he at all
times relied. On the same Almighty Being I place my reliance. Pray that I may receive that
Divine assistance, without which I cannot succeed, but with which success is certain." To the
men of Indiana he said: "I am but an accidental, temporary instrument; it is your business
to rise up and preserve the Union and liberty." At the capital of Ohio he said: "Without a
name, without a reason why I should have a name, there has fallen upon me a task such as did
not rest even upon the Father of his country." At various places in New York, especially at
Albany, before the legislature, which tendered him the united support of the great Empire State,
he said: "While I hold myself the humblest of all the individuals who have ever been elevated
to the Presidency, I have a more difficult task to perform than any of them. I bring a true
heart to the work. To the assembly of New Jersey, at Trenton, he explained: "I shall take the
ground I deem most just to the North, the East, the West, the South, and the whole country,
in good temper, certainly with no malice to any section. I am devoted to peace, but it may
be necessary to put the foot down firmly." In the old Independence Hall, of Philadelphia, he
said: "I have never had a feeling politically that did not spring from the sentiments embodied
in the Declaration of Independence, which gave liberty, not alone to the people of this country,
but to the world in all future time. If the country cannot be saved without giving up that
principle, I would rather be assassinated on the spot than surrender it. I have said nothing
but what I am willing to live and die by."

Travelling in the dead of night to escape assassination, LINCOLN arrived at Washington nine
days before his inauguration. The outgoing President, at the opening of the session of Congress,
had still kept as the majority of his advisers men engaged in treason; had declared that in
case of even an "imaginary" apprehension of danger from notions of freedom among the slaves,
"disunion would become inevitable." LINCOLN and others had questioned the opinion of Taney;
such impugning he ascribed to the "factious temper of the times." The favorite doctrine of
the majority of the Democratic party on the power of a territorial legislature over slavery
he condemned as an attack on "the sacred rights of property." The State legislatures, he insisted,
must repeal what he called "their unconstitutional and obnoxious enactments," and which, if
such, were "null and void," or "it would be impossible for any human power to save the Union."
Nay! if these unimportant acts were not repealed, "the injured States would be justified in
revolutionary resistance to the government of the Union." He maintained that no State might
secede at its sovereign will and pleasure; that the Union was meant for perpetuity, and that
Congress might attempt to preserve it, but only by conciliation; that "the sword was not placed
in their hands to preserve it by force;" that "the last desperate remedy of a despairing people"
would be "an explanatory amendment recognising the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States." The American Union he called "a confederacy" of States, and he thought it a duty to
make the appeal for the amendment "before any of these States should separate themselves from
the Union." The views of the Lieutenant General, containing some patriotic advice, "conceded
the right of secession," pronounced a quadruple rupture of the Union "a smaller evil than the
reuniting of the fragments by the sword," and "eschewed the idea of invading a seceded State."
After changes in the Cabinet, the President informed Congress that "matters were still worse;"
that "the South suffered serious grievances," which should be redressed "in peace." The day
after this message the flag of the Union was fired upon from Fort Morris, and the insult was
not revenged or noticed. Senators in Congress telegraphed to their constituents to seize the
national forts, and they were not arrested. The finances of the country were grievously embarrassed.
Its little army was not within reach; the part of it in Texas, with all its stores, was made
over by its commander to rebels. One State after another voted in convention to secede. A peace
congress, so called, met at the request of Virginia, to concert the terms of a capitulation
which should secure permission for the continuance of the Union. Congress, in both branches,
sought to devise conciliatory expedients; the Territories of the country were organized in
a manner not to conflict with any pretensions of the South, or any decision of the Supreme
Court; and, nevertheless, the representatives of the rebellion formed at Montgomery a provisional
government, and pursued their relentless purpose with such success that the Lieutenant General
feared the city of Washington might find itself "included in a foreign country," and proposed,
among the options for the consideration of LINCOLN, to bid the wayward States "depart in peace."
The great republic appeared to have its emblem in the vast unfinished Capitol, at that moment
surrounded by masses of stone and prostrate columns never yet lifted into their places, seemingly
the monument of high but delusive aspirations, the confused wreck of inchoate magnificence,
sadder than any ruin of Egyptian Thebes or Athens.

The fourth of March came. With instinctive wisdom the new President, speaking to the people
on taking the oath of office, put aside every question that divided the country, and gained
a right to universal support by planting himself on the single idea of Union. The Union he
declared to be unbroken and perpetual, and he announced his determination to fulfil "the simple
duty of taking care that the laws be faithfully executed in all the States." Seven days later,
the convention of Confederate States unanimously adopted a constitution of their own, and the
new government was authoritatively announced to be founded on the idea that the negro race
is a slave race; that slavery is its natural and normal condition. The issue was made up, whether
the great republic was to maintain its providential place in the history of mankind, or a rebellion
founded on negro slavery gain a recognition of its principle throughout the civilized world.
To the disaffected LINCOLN had said, "You can have no conflict without being yourselves the
aggressors." To fire the passions of the southern portion of the people, the confederate government
chose to become aggressors, and, on the morning of the twelfth of April, began the bombardment
of Fort Sumter, and compelled its evacuation.

It is the glory of the late President that he had perfect faith in the perpetuity of the Union.
Supported in advance by Douglas, who spoke as with the voice of a million, he instantly called
a meeting of Congress, and summoned the people to come up and repossess the forts, places,
and property which had been seized from the Union. The men of the north were trained in schools;
industrious and frugal; many of them delicately bred, their minds teeming with ideas and fertile
in plans of enterprise; given to the culture of the arts; eager in the pursuit of wealth, yet
employing wealth less for ostentation than for developing the resources of their country; seeking
happiness in the calm of domestic life; and such lovers of peace, that for generations they
had been reputed unwarlike. Now, at the cry of their country in its distress, they rose up
with unappeasable patriotism; not hirelings--the purest and of the best blood in the land.
Sons of a pious ancestry, with a clear perception of duty, unclouded faith and fixed resolve
to succeed, they thronged around the President, to support the wronged, the beautiful flag
of the nation. The halls of theological seminaries sent forth their young men, whose lips were
touched with eloquence, whose hearts kindled with devotion, to serve in the ranks, and make
their way to command only as they learned the art of war. Striplings in the colleges, as well
the most gentle and the most studious, those of sweetest temper and loveliest character and
brightest genius, passed from their classes to the camp. The lumbermen from the forests, the
mechanics from their benches, where they had been trained, by the exercise of political rights,
to share the life and hope of the republic, to feel their responsibility to their forefathers,
their posterity and mankind, went to the front, resolved that their dignity, as a constituent
part of this republic, should not be impaired. Farmers and sons of farmers left the land but
half ploughed, the grain but half planted, and, taking up the musket, learned to face without
fear the presence of peril and the corning of death in the shocks of war, while their hearts
were still attracted to their herds and fields, and all the tender affections of home. Whatever
there was of truth and faith and public love in the common heart, broke out with one expression.
The mighty winds blew from every quarter, to fan the flame of the sacred and unquenchable fire.

For a time the war was thought to be confined to our own domestic affairs, but it was soon
seen that it involved the destinies of mankind; its principles and causes shook the politics
of Europe to the centre, and from Lisbon to Pekin divided the governments of the world.

There was a kingdom whose people had in an eminent degree attained to freedom of industry and
the security of person and property. Its middle class rose to greatness. Out of that class
sprung the noblest poets and philosophers, whose words built up the intellect of its people;
skilful navigators, to find out for its merchants the many paths of the oceans; discoverers
in natural science, whose inventions guided its industry to wealth, till it equalled any nation
of the world in letters, and excelled all in trade and commerce. But its government was become
a government of land, and not of men; every blade of grass was represented, but only a small
minority of the people. In the transition from the feudal forms the heads of the social organization
freed themselves from the military services which were the conditions of their tenure, and,
throwing the burden on the industrial classes, kept all the soil to themselves. Vast estates
that had been managed by monasteries as endowments for religion and charity were impropriated
to swell the wealth of courtiers and favorites; and the commons, where the poor man once had
his right of pasture, were taken away, and, under forms of law, enclosed distributively within
the domains of the adjacent landholders. Although no law forbade any inhabitant from purchasing
land, the costliness of the transfer constituted a prohibition; so that it was the rule of
the country that the plough should not be in the hands of its owner. The church was rested
on a contradiction; claiming to be an embodiment of absolute truth, it was a creature of the
statute-book.

The progress of time increased the terrible contrast between wealth and poverty. In their years
of strength the laboring people, cut off from all share in governing the state, derived a scant
support from the severest toil, and had no hope for old age but in public charity or death.
A grasping ambition had dotted the world with military posts, kept watch over our borders on
the northeast, at the Bermudas, in the West Indies, appropriated the gates of the Pacific,
of the Southern and of the Indian ocean, hovered on our northwest at Vancouver, held the whole
of the newest continent, and the entrances to the old Mediterranean and Red Sea, and garrisoned
forts all the way from Madras to China. That aristocracy had gazed with terror on the growth
of a commonwealth where freeholders existed by the million, and religion was not in bondage
to the state, and now they could not repress their joy at its perils. They had not one word
of sympathy for the kind-hearted poor man's son whom America had chosen for her chief; they
jeered at his large hands, and long feet, and ungainly stature; and the British secretary of
state for foreign affairs made haste to send word through the palaces of Europe that the great
republic was in its agony; that the republic was no more; that a headstone was all that remained
due by the law of nations to "the late Union." But it is written, "Let the dead bury their
dead;" they may not bury the living. Let the dead bury their dead; let a bill of reform remove
the worn-out government of a class, and infuse new life into the British constitution by confiding
rightful power to the people.

But while the vitality of America is indestructible, the British government hurried to do what
never before had been done by Christian powers; what was in direct conflict with its own exposition
of public law in the time of our struggle for independence. Though the insurgent States had
not a ship in an open harbor, it invested them with all the rights of a belligerent, even on
the ocean; and this, too, when the rebellion was not only directed against the gentlest and
most beneficent government on earth, without a shadow of justifiable cause, but when the rebellion
was directed against human nature itself for the perpetual enslavement of a race. And the effect
of this recognition was, that acts in themselves piratical found shelter in British courts
of law. The resources of British capitalists, their workshops, their armories, their private
arsenals, their ship-yards, were in league with the insurgents, and every British harbor in
the wide world became a safe port for British ships, manned by British sailors, and armed with
British guns, to prey on our peaceful commerce; even on our ships coming from British ports,
freighted with British products, or that had carried gifts of grain to the English poor. The
prime minister, in the House of Commons, sustained by cheers, scoffed at the thought that their
laws could be amended at our request, so as to preserve real neutrality; and to remonstrances,
now owned to have been just, their secretary of state answered that they could not change their
laws ad infinitum.

The people of America then wished, as they always have wished, as they still wish, friendly
relations with England, and no man in England or America can desire it more strongly than I.
This country has always yearned for good relations with England. Thrice only in all its history
has that yearning been fairly met: in the days of Hampden and Cromwell, again in the first
ministry of the elder Pitt, and once again in the ministry of Shelburne. Not that there have
not at all times been just men among the peers of Britain--like Halifax in the days of James
the Second, or a Granville, an Argyll, or a Houghton in ours; and we cannot be indifferent
to a country that produces statesmen like Cobden and Bright; but the best bower anchor of peace
was the working class of England, who suffered most from our civil war, but who, while they
broke their diminished bread in sorrow, always encouraged us to persevere.

The act of recognising the rebel belligerents was concerted with France--France, so beloved
in America, on which she had conferred the greatest benefits that one people ever conferred
on another; France, which stands foremost on the continent of Europe for the solidity of her
culture, as well as for the bravery and generous impulses of her sons; France, which for centuries
had been moving steadily in her own way towards intellectual and political freedom. The policy
regarding further colonization of America by European powers, known commonly as the doctrine
of Monroe, had its origin in France, and if it takes any man's name, should bear the name of
Turgot. It was adopted by Louis the Sixteenth, in the cabinet of which Vergennes was the most
important member. It is emphatically the policy of France, to which, with transient deviations,
the Bourbons, the First Napoleon, the House of Orleans have adhered.

The late President was perpetually harassed by rumors that the Emperor Napoleon the Third desired
formally to recognise the States in rebellion as an independent power, and that England held
him back by her reluctance, or France by her traditions of freedom, or he himself by his own
better judgment and clear perception of events. But the republic of Mexico, on our borders,
was, like ourselves, distracted by a rebellion, and from a similar cause. The monarchy of England
had fastened upon us slavery which did not disappear with independence; in like manner, the
ecclesiastical policy established by the Spanish council of the Indies, in the days of Charles
the Fifth and Philip the Second, retained its vigor in the Mexican republic. The fifty years
of civil war under which she had languished was due to the bigoted system which was the legacy
of monarchy, just as here the inheritance of slavery kept alive political strife, and culminated
in civil war. As with us there could be no quiet but through the end of slavery, so in Mexico
there could be no prosperity until the crushing tyranny of intolerance should cease. The party
of slavery in the United States sent their emissaries to Europe to solicit aid; and so did
the party of the church in Mexico, as organized by the old Spanish council of the Indies, but
with a different result. Just as the Republican party had made an end of the rebellion, and
was establishing the best government ever known in that region, and giving promise to the nation
of order, peace, and prosperity, word was brought us, in the moment of our deepest affliction,
that the French Emperor, moved by a desire to erect in North America a buttress for imperialism,
would transform the republic of Mexico into a secundo-geniture for the house of Hapsburg. America
might complain; she could not then interpose, and delay seemed justifiable. It was seen that
Mexico could not, with all its wealth of land, compete in cereal products with our northwest,
nor in tropical products with Cuba, nor could it, under a disputed dynasty, attract capital,
or create public works, or develop mines, or borrow money; so that the imperial system of Mexico,
which was forced at once to recognise the wisdom of the policy of the republic by adopting
it, could prove only an unremunerating drain on the French treasury for the support of an Austrian
adventurer.

Meantime a new series of momentous questions grows up, and forces itself on the consideration
of the thoughtful. Republicanism has learned how to introduce into its constitution every element
of order, as well as every element of freedom; but thus far the continuity of its government
has seemed to depend on the continuity of elections. It is now to be considered how perpetuity
is to be secured against foreign occupation. The successor of Charles the First of England
dated his reign from the death of his father; the Bourbons, coming back after a long series
of revolutions, claimed that the Louis who became king was the eighteenth of that name. The
present Emperor of the French, disdaining a title from election alone, calls himself Napoleon
the Third. Shall a republic have less power of continuance when invading armies prevent a peaceful
resort to the ballot-box? What force shall it attach to intervening legislation? What validity
to debts contracted for its overthrow? These momentous questions are, by the invasion of Mexico,
thrown up for solution. A free state once truly constituted should be as undying as its people:
the republic of Mexico must rise again.

It was the condition of affairs in Mexico that involved the Pope of Rome in our difficulties
so far that he alone among sovereigns recognised the chief of the Confederate States as a president,
and his supporters as a people; and in letters to two great prelates of the Catholic church
in the United States gave counsels for peace at a time when peace meant the victory of secession.
Yet events move as they are ordered. The blessing of the Pope at Rome on the head of Duke Maximilian
could not revive in the nineteenth century the ecclesiastical policy of the sixteenth, and
the result is only a new proof that there can be no prosperity in the state without religious
freedom.

When it came home to the consciousness of the Americans that the war which they were waging
was a war for the liberty of all the nations of the world, for freedom itself, they thanked
God for giving them strength to endure the severity of the trial to which He put their sincerity,
and nerved themselves for their duty with an inexorable will. The President was led along by
the greatness of their self-sacrificing example; and as a child, in a dark night, on a rugged
way, catches hold of the hand of its father for guidance and support, he clung fast to the
hand of the people, and moved calmly through the gloom. While the statesmanship of Europe was
mocking at the hopeless vanity of their efforts, they put forth such miracles of energy as
the history of the world had never known. The contributions to the popular loans amounted in
four years to twenty-seven and a half hundred millions of dollars; the revenue of the country
from taxation was increased seven-fold. The navy of the United States, drawing into the public
service the willing militia of the seas, doubled its tonnage in eight months, and established
an actual blockade from Cape Hatteras to the Rio Grande; in the course of the war it was increased
five-fold in men and in tonnage, while the inventive genius of the country devised more effective
kinds of ordnance, and new forms of naval architecture in wood and iron. There went into the
field, for various terms of enlistment, about two million men, and in March last the men in
the army exceeded a million: that is to say, nine of every twenty able-bodied men in the free
Territories and States took some part in the war; and at one time every fifth of their able-bodied
men was in service. In one single month one hundred and sixty-five thousand men were recruited
into service. Once, within four weeks, Ohio organized and placed in the field forty-two regiments
of infantry--nearly thirty-six thousand men; and Ohio was like other States in the east and
in the west. The well-mounted cavalry numbered eighty-four thousand; of horses and mules there
were bought, from first to last, two-thirds of a million. In the movements of troops science
came in aid of patriotism, so that, to choose a single instance out of many, an army twenty-three
thousand strong, with its artillery, trains, baggage, and animals, were moved by rail from
the Potomac to the Tennessee, twelve hundred miles, in seven days. On the long marches, wonders
of military construction bridged the rivers, and wherever an army halted, ample supplies awaited
them at their ever-changing base. The vile thought that life is the greatest of blessings did
not rise up. In six hundred and twenty-five battles and severe skirmishes blood flowed like
water. It streamed over the grassy plains; it stained the rocks; the undergrowth of the forests
was red with it; and the armies marched on with majestic courage from one conflict to another,
knowing that they were fighting for God and liberty. The organization of the medical department
met its infinitely multiplied duties with exactness and despatch. At the news of a battle;
the best surgeons of our cities hastened to the field, to offer the untiring aid of the greatest
experience and skill. The gentlest and most refined of women left homes of luxury and ease
to build hospital tents near the armies, and serve as nurses to the sick and dying. Beside
the large supply of religious teachers by the public, the congregations spared to their brothers
in the field the ablest ministers. The Christian Commission, which expended more than six and
a quarter millions, sent nearly five thousand clergymen, chosen out of the best, to keep unsoiled
the religious character of the men, and made gifts of clothes and food and medicine. The organization
of private charity assumed unheard-of dimensions. The Sanitary Commission, which had seven
thousand societies, distributed, under the direction of an unpaid board, spontaneous contributions
to the amount of fifteen millions in supplies or money--a million and a half in money from
California alone--and dotted the scene of war, from Paducah to Port Royal, from Belle Plain,
Virginia, to Brownsville, Texas, with homes and lodges.

The country had for its allies the river Mississippi, which would not be divided, and the range
of mountains which carried the stronghold of the free through Western Virginia and Kentucky
and Tennessee to the highlands of Alabama. But it invoked the still higher power of immortal
justice. In ancient Greece, where servitude was the universal custom, it was held that if a
child were to strike its parent, the slave should defend the parent, and by that act recover
his freedom. After vain resistance, LINCOLN, who had tried to solve the question by gradual
emancipation, by colonization, and by compensation, at last saw that slavery must be abolished,
or the republic must die; and on the first day of January, 1863, he wrote liberty on the banners
of the armies. When this proclamation, which struck the fetters from three millions of slaves,
reached Europe, Lord Russell, a countryman of Milton and Wilberforce, eagerly put himself forward
to speak of it in the name of mankind, saying: "It is of a very strange nature;" "a measure
of war of a very questionable kind;" an act "of vengeance on the slave owner," that does no
more than "profess to emancipate slaves where the United States authorities cannot make emancipation
a reality." Now there was no part of the country embraced in the proclamation where the United
States could not and did not make emancipation a reality.

Those who saw LINCOLN most frequently had never before heard him speak with bitterness of any
human being, but he did not conceal how keenly he felt that he had been wronged by Lord Russell.
And he wrote, in reply to other cavils: "The emancipation policy and the use of colored troops
were the greatest blows yet dealt to the rebellion; the job was a great national one, and let
none be slighted who bore an honorable part in it. I hope peace will come soon, and come to
stay; then will there be some black men who can remember that they have helped mankind to this
great consummation."

The proclamation accomplished its end, for, during the war, our armies came into military possession
of every State in rebellion. Then, too, was called forth the new power that comes from the
simultaneous diffusion of thought and feeling among the nations of mankind. The mysterious
sympathy of the millions throughout the world was given spontaneously. The best writers of
Europe waked the conscience of the thoughtful, till the intelligent moral sentiment of the
Old World was drawn to the side of the unlettered statesman of the West. Russia, whose emperor
had just accomplished one of the grandest acts in the course of time, by raising twenty millions
of bondmen into freeholders, and thus assuring the growth and culture of a Russian people,
remained our unwavering friend. From the oldest abode of civilization, which gave the first
example of an imperial government with equality among the people, Prince Kung, the secretary
of state for foreign affairs, remembered the saying of Confucius, that we should not do to
others what we would not that others should do to us, and, in the name of his emperor, read
a lesson to European diplomatists by closing the ports of China against the war-ships and privateers
of "the seditious."

The war continued, with all the peoples of the world for anxious spectators. Its cares weighed
heavily on LINCOLN, and his face was ploughed with the furrows of thought and sadness. With
malice towards none, free from the spirit of revenge, victory made him importunate for peace,
and his enemies never doubted his word, or despaired of his abounding clemency. He longed to
utter pardon as the word for all, but not unless the freedom of the negro should be assured.
The grand battles of Fort Donelson, Chattanooga, Malvern Hill, Antietam, Gettysburg, the Wilderness
of Virginia, Winchester, Nashville, the capture of New Orleans, Vicksburg, Mobile, Fort Fisher,
the march from Atlanta, and the capture of Savannah and Charleston, all foretold the issue.
Still more, the self-regeneration of Missouri, the heart of the continent; of Maryland, whose
sons never heard the midnight bells chime so sweetly as when they rang out to earth and heaven
that, by the voice of her own people, she took her place among the free; of Tennessee, which
passed through fire and blood, through sorrows and the shadow of death, to work out her own
deliverance, and by the faithfulness of her own sons to renew her youth like the eagle--proved
that victory was deserved, and would be worth all that it cost. If words of mercy, uttered
as they were by LINCOLN on the waters of Virginia, were defiantly repelled, the armies of the
country, moving with one will, went as the arrow to its mark, and, without a feeling of revenge,
struck a deathblow at rebellion.

Where, in the history of nations, had a Chief Magistrate possessed more sources of consolation
and joy than LINCOLN? His countrymen had shown their love by choosing him to a second term
of service. The raging war that had divided the country had lulled, and private grief was hushed
by the grandeur of the result. The nation had its new birth of freedom, soon to be secured
forever by an amendment of the Constitution. His persistent gentleness had conquered for him
a kindlier feeling on the part of the South. His scoffers among the grandees of Europe began
to do him honor. The laboring classes everywhere saw in his advancement their own. All peoples
sent him their benedictions. And at this moment of the height of his fame, to which his humility
and modesty added charms, he fell by the hand of the assassin, and the only triumph awarded
him was the march to the grave.

This is no time to say that human glory is but dust and ashes; that we mortals are no more
than shadows in pursuit of shadows. How mean a thing were man if there were not that within
him which is higher than himself; if he could not master the illusions of sense, and discern
the connexions of events by a superior light which comes from God! He so shares the divine
impulses that he has power to subject interested passions to love of country, and personal
ambition to the ennoblement of his kind. Not in vain has LINCOLN lived, for he has helped to
make this republic an example of justice, with no caste but the caste of humanity. The heroes
who led our armies and ships into battle and fell in the service--Lyon, McPherson, Reynolds,
Sedgwick, Wadsworth, Foote, Ward, with their compeers--did not die in vain; they and the myriads
of nameless martyrs, and he, the chief martyr, gave up their lives willingly "that government
of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth."

The assassination of LINCOLN, who was so free from malice, has, by some mysterious influence,
struck the country with solemn awe, and hushed, instead of exciting, the passion for revenge.
It seems as if the just had died for the unjust. When I think of the friends I have lost in
this war--and every one who hears me has, like myself, lost some of those whom he most loved--there
is no consolation to be derived from victims on the scaffold, or from anything but the established
union of the regenerated nation.

In his character LINCOLN was through and through an American. He is the first native of the
region west of the Alleghanies to attain to the highest station; and how happy it is that the
man who was brought forward as the natural outgrowth and first fruits of that region should
have been of unblemished purity in private life, a good son, a kind husband, a most affectionate
father, and, as a man, so gentle to all. As to integrity, Douglas, his rival, said of him:
"Lincoln is the honestest man I ever knew."

The habits of his mind were those of meditation and inward thought, rather than of action.
He delighted to express his opinions by an apothegm, illustrate them by a parable, or drive
them home by a story. He was skilful in analysis, discerned with precision the central idea
on which a question turned, and knew how to disengage it and present it by itself in a few
homely, strong old English words that would be intelligible to all. He excelled in logical
statement more than in executive ability. He reasoned clearly, his reflective judgment was
good, and his purposes were fixed; but, like the Hamlet of his only poet, his will was tardy
in action, and, for this reason, and not from humility or tenderness of feeling, he sometimes
deplored that the duty which devolved on him had not fallen to the lot of another.

LINCOLN gained a name by discussing questions which, of all others, most easily lead to fanaticism;
but he was never carried away by enthusiastic zeal, never indulged in extravagant language,
never hurried to support extreme measures, never allowed himself to be controlled by sudden
impulses. During the progress of the election at which he was chosen President he expressed
no opinion that went beyond the Jefferson proviso of 1784. Like Jefferson and Lafayette, he
had faith in the intuitions of the people, and read those intuitions with rare sagacity. He
knew how to bide time, and was less apt to run ahead of public thought than to lag behind.
He never sought to electrify the community by taking an advanced position with a banner of
opinion, but rather studied to move forward compactly, exposing no detachment in front or rear;
so that the course of his administration might have been explained as the calculating policy
of a shrewd and watchful politician, had there not been seen behind it a fixedness of principle
which from the first determined his purpose, and grew more intense with every year, consuming
his life by its energy. Yet his sensibilities were not acute; he had no vividness of imagination
to picture to his mind the horrors of the battle-field or the sufferings in hospitals; his
conscience was more tender than his feelings.

LINCOLN was one of the most unassuming of men. In time of success, he gave credit for it to
those whom he employed, to the people, and to the Providence of God. He did not know what ostentation
is; when he became President he was rather saddened than elated, and his conduct and manners
showed more than ever his belief that all men are born equal. He was no respecter of persons,
and neither rank, nor reputation, nor services overawed him. In judging of character he failed
in discrimination, and his appointments were sometimes bad; but he readily deferred to public
opinion, and in appointing the head of the armies he followed the manifest preference of Congress.

A good President will secure unity to his administration by his own supervision of the various
departments. LINCOLN, who accepted advice readily, was never governed by any member of his
cabinet, and could not be moved from a purpose deliberately formed; but his supervision of
affairs was unsteady and incomplete, and sometimes, by a sudden interference transcending the
usual forms, he rather confused than advanced the public business. If he ever failed in the
scrupulous regard due to the relative rights of Congress, it was so evidently without design
that no conflict could ensue, or evil precedent be established. Truth he would receive from
any one, but when impressed by others, he did not use their opinions till, by reflection, he
had made them thoroughly his own. The amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery had
his most earnest and unwearied support. During the rage of war we get a glimpse into his soul
from his privately suggesting to Louisiana, that "in defining the franchise some of the colored
people might be let in," saying: "They would probably help, in some trying time to come, to
keep the jewel of liberty in the family of freedom." In 1857 he avowed himself "not in favor
of" what he improperly called "negro citizenship," for the Constitution discriminates between
citizens and electors. Three days before his death he declared his preference that "the elective
franchise were now conferred on the very intelligent of the colored men, and on those of them
who served our cause as soldiers;" but he wished it done by the States themselves, and he never
harbored the thought of exacting it from a new government, as a condition of its recognition.

The last day of his life beamed with sunshine, as he sent, by the Speaker of this House, his
friendly greetings to the men of the Rocky mountains and the Pacific slope; as he contemplated
the return of hundreds of thousands of soldiers to fruitful industry; as he welcomed in advance
hundreds of thousands of emigrants from Europe; as his eye kindled with enthusiasm at the coming
wealth of the nation. And so, with these thoughts for his country, he was removed from the
toils and temptations of this life, and was at peace.

Hardly had the late President been consigned to the grave when the prime minister of England
died, full of years and honors. Palmerston traced his lineage to the time of the conqueror;
LINCOLN went back only to his grandfather. Palmerston received his education from the best
scholars of Harrow, Edinburg, and Cambridge; LINCOLN'S early teachers were the silent forest,
the prairie, the river, and the stars. Palmerston was in public life for sixty years; LINCOLN
for but a tenth of that time. Palmerston was a skilful guide of an established aristocracy;
LINCOLN a leader, or rather a companion, of the people. Palmerston was exclusively an Englishman,
and made his boast in the House of Commons that the interest of England was his Shibboleth;
LINCOLN thought always of mankind, as well as his own country, and served human nature itself.
Palmerston, from his narrowness as an Englishman, did not endear his country to any one court
or to any one nation, but rather caused general uneasiness and dislike; LINCOLN left America
more beloved than ever by all the peoples of Europe. Palmerston was self-possessed and adroit
in reconciling the conflicting factions of the aristocracy; LINCOLN, frank and ingenuous, knew
how to poise himself on the ever-moving opinions of the masses. Palmerston was capable of insolence
towards the weak, quick to the sense of honor, not heedful of right;

LINCOLN rejected counsel given only as a matter of policy, and was not capable of being wilfully
unjust. Palmerston, essentially superficial, delighted in banter, and knew how to divert grave
opposition by playful levity; LINCOLN was a man of infinite jest on his lips, with saddest
earnestness at his heart. Palmerston was a fair representative of the aristocratic liberality
of the day, choosing for his tribunal, not the conscience of humanity, but the House of Commons;
LINCOLN took to heart the eternal truths of liberty, obeyed them as the commands of Providence,
and accepted the human race as the judge of his fidelity. Palmerston did nothing that will
endure; LINCOLN finished a work which all time cannot overthrow. Palmerston is a shining example
of the ablest of a cultivated aristocracy; LINCOLN is the genuine fruit of institutions where
the laboring man shares and assists to form the great ideas and designs of his country. Palmerston
was buried in Westminster Abbey by the order of his Queen, and was attended by the British
aristocracy to his grave, which, after a few years, will hardly be noticed by the side of the
graves of Fox and Chatham; LINCOLN was followed by tho sorrow of his country across the continent
to his resting place in the heart of the Mississippi valley, to be remembered through all time
by his countrymen, and by all the peoples of the world.

As the sum of all, the hand of LINCOLN raised the flag; the American people was the hero of
the war; and, therefore, the result is a new era of republicanism. The disturbances in the
country grew not out of anything republican, but out of slavery, which is a part of the system
of hereditary wrong; and the expulsion of this domestic anomaly opens to the renovated nation
a career of unthought-of dignity and glory. Henceforth our country has a moral unity as the
land of free labor. The party for slavery and the party against slavery are no more, and are
merged in the party of Union and freedom. The States which would have left us are not brought
back as subjugated States, for then we should hold them only so long as that conquest could
be maintained; they come to their rightful place under the Constitution as original, necessary,
and inseparable members of the Union.

We build monuments to the dead, but no monuments of victory. We respect the example of the
Romans, who never, even in conquered lands, raised emblems of triumph. And our generals are
not to be classed in the herd of vulgar warriors, but are of the school of Timoleon, and William
of Nassau, and Washington. They have used the sword only to give peace to their country and
restore her to her place in the great assembly of the nations.

SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES of America: as I bid you farewell, my last words shall be words
of hope and confidence; for now slavery is no more, the Union is restored, a people begins
to live according to the laws of reason, and republicanism is intrenched in a continent.

APPENDIX.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN was assassinated at 10.30 p.m. on the 14th of April, 1865, and died at 7.20
a.m. the next day. Congress was not in session, but a large number of members hastened to the
Capitol on the receipt of the startling intelligence, and on the 17th a card was published
by Senator Foot, inviting those Senators and Representatives who might be in the city the next
day to meet at the Capitol, to consider what action they would take in relation to the funeral
ceremonies.

The members of the 39th Congress then in Washington met in the Senate reception room, at the
Capitol, on the 17th of April, 1865, at noon. Hon. LAFAYETTE S. FOSTER of Connecticut, President
pro tem. of the Senate, was called to the chair, and the Hon. SCHUYLER COLFAX of Indiana, Speaker
of the House in the 38th Congress, was chosen secretary.

Senator FOOT, of Vermont, who was visibly affected, stated that the object of the meeting was
to make arrangements relative to the funeral of the deceased President of the United States.

On motion of Senator SUMNER, of Massachusetts, a committee of four members from each house
was ordered to report at 4 p.m., what action would be fitting for the meeting to take. The
Chairman appointed Senators Sumner of Massachusetts, Harris of New York, Johnson of Maryland,
Ramsey of Minnesota, and Conness of California, and Representatives Washburne of Illinois,
Smith of Kentucky, Schenck of Ohio, Pike of Maine, and Coffroth of Pennsylvania; and on motion
of Mr. Schenck, the Chairman and Secretary of the meeting were added to the Committee, and
then the meeting adjourned until 4 p.m.

The meeting re-assembled at 4 p.m., pursuant to adjournment.

Mr. SUMNER, from the Committee heretofore appointed, reported that they had selected as pall-bearers
on the part of the Senate: Mr. Foster of Connecticut; Mr. Morgan of New York; Mr. Johnson of
Maryland; Mr. Yates of Illinois; Mr. Wade of Ohio, and Mr. Conness of California. On the part
of the House: Mr. Dawes of Massachusetts; Mr. Coffroth of Pennsylvania; Mr. Smith of Kentucky;
Mr. Colfax of Indiana; Mr. Worthington of Nevada, and Mr. Washburne of Illinois. They also
recommended the appointment of one member of Congress from each State and Territory to act
as a Congressional Committee to accompany the remains of the late President to Illinois, and
presented the following names as such Committee, the Chairman of the meeting to have the authority
of appointing hereafter for the States and Territories not represented to-day from which members
may be present at the Capitol by the day of the funeral:

Maine, Mr. Pike; New Hampshire, Mr. E. H. Rollins; Vermont, Mr. Foot; Massachusetts, Mr. Sumner;
Rhode Island, Mr. Anthony; Connecticut, Mr. Dixon; New York, Mr. Harris  Pennsylvania, Mr.
Cowan; Ohio, Mr. Schenck; Kentucky, Mr. Smith; Indiana, Mr. Julian; Illinois, the delegation;
Michigan, Mr. Chandler; Iowa, Mr. Harlan; California, Mr. Shannon; Minnesota, Mr. Ramsey; Oregon,
Mr. Williams; Kansas, Mr. S. Clarke; West Virginia, Mr. Whaley; Nevada, Mr. Nye; Nebraska,
Mr. Hitchcock; Colorado, Mr. Bradford; Dakota, Mr. Todd; Idaho, Mr. Wallace.

The Committee also recommended the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Sergeants-at-Arms of the Senate and House with their necessary assistants
be requested to attend the Committee accompanying the remains of the late President, and to
make all the necessary arrangements.

All of which was concurred in unanimously.

Mr. SUMNER from the same Committee also reported the following, which was unanimously agreed to:

The members of the Senate and House of Representatives now assembled in Washington, humbly
confessing their dependence upon Almighty God who rules all that is done for human good, make
haste, at this informal meeting, to express the emotions with which they have been filled by
the appalling tragedy which has deprived the Nation of its head and covered the land with mourning;
and in further declaration of their sentiments unanimously resolve:

1. That in testimony of their veneration and affection for the illustrious dead, who has been
permitted under Providence to do so much for his country and for liberty, they will unite in
the funeral services, and by an appropriate Committee will accompany his remains to their place
of burial in the State from which he was taken for the national service.

2. That in the life of Abraham Lincoln, who, by the benignant favor of Republican institutions,
rose from humble beginnings to the heights of power and fame, they recognize an example of
purity, simplicity and virtue, which should be a lesson, to mankind; while in his death they
recognize a martyr, whose memory will become more precious as men learn to prize those principles
of constitutional order and those rights, civil, political, and human, for which he was made
a sacrifice.

3. That they invite the President of the United States, by solemn proclamation, to recommend
to the people of the United States to assemble on a day to be appointed by him, publicly to
testify their grief, and to dwell on the good which has been done on earth by him whom we now
mourn.

4. That a copy of these resolutions be communicated to the President of the United States;
and also, that a copy be communicated to the afflicted widow of the late President, as an expression
of sympathy in her great bereavement.

The meeting then adjourned.

      *      *      *

The funeral ceremonies took place in the East room of the Executive Mansion, at noon, on the
19th of April, and the remains were then escorted to the Capitol, where they lay in state in
the rotundo.

On the morning of April 21, the remains were taken from the Capitol and placed in a funeral
car, in which they were taken to Springfield, Illinois, accompanied by the Congressional Committee.
Halting at the principal cities along the route, that appropriate honors might be paid to the
deceased, the funeral cortege arrived on the 3d of May at Springfield, Illinois, and the next
day the remains were deposited in Oak Ridge cemetery near that city.

On motion of Hon. SOLOMON FOOT, the Senate unanimously concurred in the passage of the resolution,
and the following joint committee was appointed--thirteen on the part of the Senate and one
for every State represented (twenty-four) on the part of the House of Representatives:

SENATE.

  Hon. Solomon Foot, Vt.
  Hon. Richard Yates, Ill.
  Hon. Benj. F. Wade, Ohio.
  Hon. Wm. Pitt Fessenden, Me.
  Hon. Henry Wilson, Mass.
  Hon. James R. Doolittle, Wis.
  Hon. Jas. H. Lane, Ka.
  Hon. Ira Harris, N.Y.
  Hon. Jas. W. Nesmith, Oregon.
  Hon. Henry S. Lane, Ind.
  Hon. Waitman T. Willey, W. Va.
  Hon. Chas. R. Buckalew, Pa.
  Hon. John B. Henderson, Mo.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

  Hon. Ellihu B. Washburne, Ill.
  Hon. James G. Blaine, Me.
  Hon. James W. Patterson, N. H.
  Hon. Justin S. Morrill, Vt.
  Hon. Nathaniel P. Banks, Mass.
  Hon. Thomas A. Jenckes, R. I.
  Hon. Henry C. Deming, Ct.
  Hon. John A. Griswold, N.Y.
  Hon. Edwin R. V. Wright, N.J.
  Hon. Thaddeus Stevens, Pa.
  Hon. John A. Nicholson, Del.
  Hon. Francis Thomas, Md.
  Hon. Robert C. Schenck, Ohio.
  Hon. George S. Shanklin, Ky.
  Hon. Godlove S. Orth, Ind.
  Hon. Joseph W. McClurg, Mo.
  Hon. Fernando C. Beaman, Mich.
  Hon. John A. Kasson, Iowa.
  Hon. Ithamar C. Sloan, Wis.
  Hon. William Higby, Cal.
  Hon. William Windom, Minn.
  Hon. J. H. D. Henderson, Oregon.
  Hon. Sidney Clarke, Kansas.
  Hon. Kellian V. Whaley, W. Va.

That committee, by Hon. Mr. FOOT, made the following report, which was concurred in by both
Houses nem. con.

The Hon. GEORGE BANCROFT of New York, in response to an invitation from the joint committee,
consented to deliver the address, (Mr. Stanton having previously declined.)

      *      *      *

On the morning of the 12th of February, 1865, the Capitol was closed to all except the members
of Congress. At ten o'clock the doors leading to the rotundo were opened to those to whom tickets
of admission had been extended, and the spacious galleries of the House of Representatives
were soon crowded. The Speaker's desk was draped in mourning, and chairs were placed upon the
floor for the invited guests.

At 12.30 p.m., the members of the Senate, following their President pro tempore and their Secretary,
and preceded by their Sergeant-at-Arms, entered the Hall of the House of Representatives and
occupied the seats reserved for them on the right and left of the main aisle.

The President pro tempore occupied the Speaker's chair, the Speaker of the House sitting at
his left. The Chaplains of the Senate and of the House were seated on the right and left of
the Presiding Officers of their respective Houses.

Shortly afterward the President of the United States, with the members of his Cabinet, entered
the Hall and occupied seats, the President in front of the Speaker's table, and his Cabinet
immediately on his right.

The others present were seated as follows:

The Heads of Departments, with the Diplomatic Corps, next to the President, on the left of
the Speaker's table;

Officers of the Army and Navy, who, by name, have received the thanks of Congress, next to
the Supreme Court, on the right of the Speaker's table;

Assistant Heads of Departments, Governors of States and Territories, and the Mayors of Washington
and Georgetown, directly in the rear of the Heads of Departments;

The Chief Justice and Judges of the Court of Claims, and the Chief Justice and Associate Justices
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, directly in the rear of the Supreme Court;

The Heads of Bureaus in the Departments, directly in the rear of the officers of the Army and Navy;

Representatives on either side of the Hall, in the rear of those invited, four rows of seats
on either side of the main aisles being reserved for Senators;

The Orator of the day, Hon. George Bancroft, at the table of the Clerk of the House;

The Chairmen of the Joint Committee of Arrangements, at the right and left of the orator, and
next to them the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House;

The other officers of the Senate and of the House, on the floor at the right and the left of
the Speaker's platform.

When order was restored, at twelve o'clock and twenty minutes p.m., the Marine band, stationed
in the vestibule, played appropriate dirges.

Hon. LAFAYETE S. FOSTER, President pro tempore of the Senate, called the two Houses of Congress
to order at 12.30.

Rev. DR. BOYNTON, Chaplain of the House, offered the following prayer:

Almighty God, who dost inhabit eternity, while we appear but for a little moment and then vanish
away, we adore The Eternal Name. Infinite in power and majesty, and greatly to be feared art
Thou. All earthly distinctions disappear in Thy presence, and we come before Thy throne simply
as men, fallen men, condemned alike by Thy law, and justly cut off through sin from communion
with Thee. But through Thy infinite mercy, a new way of access has been opened through Thy
Son, and consecrated by His blood. We come, in that all-worthy Name, and plead the promise
of pardon and acceptance through Him. By the imposing solemnities of this scene we are carried
back to the hour when the nation heard, and shuddered at the hearing, that Abraham Lincoln
was dead--was murdered. We would bow ourselves submissively to Him by whom that awful hour
was appointed. We bow to the stroke that fell on the country in the very hour of its triumph,
and hushed all its shouts of victory to one voiceless sorrow. "The Lord gave and the Lord hath
taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord." The shadow of that death has not yet passed from
the heart of the nation, as this national testimonial bears witness to-day. The gloom thrown
from these surrounding emblems of death is fringed, we know, with the glory of a great triumph,
and the light of a great and good man's memory. Still, O Lord, may this hour bring to us the
proper warning! "Be ye also ready; for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh."
Any one of us may be called as suddenly as he whom we mourn.

We worship Thee as the God of our fathers. Thou didst trace for them a path over the trackless
sea, and bring them to these shores, bearing with them the seed of a great dominion. We thank
Thee that the life-power of the young nation they planted, received from Thee such energy,
guidance, and protection, that it spread rapidly over the breadth of the continent, carrying
with it Christian liberty, churches, schools, and all the blessings of a Christian civilization.
We thank Thee that the progress of the true American life has been irresistible, because sustained
by Thy eternal counsels and Thy almighty power, and because the might of God was in this national
life. We have seen it sweeping all opposition away, grinding great systems and parties to powder,
and breaking in pieces the devices of men; and Thou hast raised up for it heroic defenders
in every hour of peril. We thank Thee, O Strong Defender! And when treason was hatching its
plot and massing its armies, then, O God of Israel, who didst bring David from the sheepfold,
Thou gavest one reared in the humble cabin to become the hope and stay of this great people
in their most perilous hour, to shield them in disaster and lead them to final victory.

We thank Thee that Thou gavest us an honest man, simple-hearted and loving as a child, but
with a rugged strength that needed only culture and discipline. Thanks be to God that this
discipline was granted him through stern public trial, domestic sorrow, and Thy solemn providences,
till the mere politician was overshadowed by the nobler growth of his moral and spiritual nature,
till he came, as we believe, into sympathy with Christ, and saw that we could succeed only
by doing justice. Then, inspired by Thee, he uttered those words of power which changed three
millions of slaves into men--the great act which has rendered his name forever illustrious
and secured the triumph of our cause. We think of him almost as the prophet of his era. Thou
didst make that honest, great-hearted man the central figure of his age, setting upon goodness,
upon moral grandeur, the seal of Thine approval and the crown of victory. We bless Thee that
he did not die until assured of victory, until he knew that his great work was done, and he
had received all the honor that earth could bestow, and then we believe Thou didst give him
a martyr's crown. We thank Thee that we have this hope for the illustrious dead.

Great reason have we also to thank Thee that such was the enduring strength of our institutions
that they received no perceptible shock from the death of even such a man and in such an hour,
and that Thou didst provide for that perilous moment one whose strength was sufficient to receive
and bear the weight of government, and who, we trust, will work out the great problem of Christian
freedom to its final solution, and by equal law and equal rights bind this great people into
one inseparable whole.

We thank Thee that the representatives of the nation have come to sit to-day in the shadow
of Abraham Lincoln's tomb, to express once more their now chastened sorrow. May they all reconsecrate
themselves to those principles which made him worthy to be remembered thus, and then a redeemed
and transfigured land will be a fitting monument for him and for them.

Endow the President with wisdom equal to his great responsibilities, that the blessings of
a whole nation may also be given to him. May his advisers, our judges, and our legislators,
be constantly instructed by Thee.

May Thy blessing rest on the officers of the army and navy, by whose skill and courage our
triumph was won; upon our soldiers and sailors; upon our people, and on those who are struggling
on toward a perfect manhood.

Bless these eminent men the honored representatives of Foreign Powers. Remember the sovereigns
and people they represent. We thank Thee that peace reigns with them as with us. May it continue
until the nations shall learn war no more.

Remember Abraham Lincoln's widow and family. Comfort them in their sore bereavement. May they
be consoled to know how much the father and husband is loved and honored still.

Give Divine support to the distinguished orator of the day. May he so speak as to impress the
whole nation's mind. Prepare us to live as men in this age should, that we may be received
into Thy Heavenly Kingdom, and to Thy name shall be the praise and the glory forevermore. Amen.

Hon. LAFAYETTE S. FOSTER, President pro tempore of the Senate, in introducing the orator of
the day, said:

No ordinary occasion could have convened this august assemblage. For four weary years, the
storm of war, of civil war, raged fiercely over our country. The blood of the best and bravest
of her sons was freely shed to preserve her name and place among the nations of the earth.
In April last, the dark clouds which had so long hung heavily and gloomily over our heads,
were all dispersed, and the light of peace, more welcome even than the vernal sunshine, gladdened
the eyes and the hearts of our people. Shouts of joy and songs of triumph echoed through the
land. The hearts of the devout poured themselves in orisons and thanksgivings to the God of
battles and of nations that the most wicked and most formidable rebellion ever known in human
history had been effectually crashed, and our country saved.

In the midst of all this abounding joy, suddenly and swiftly as the lightning's flash came
the fearful tidings that the Chief Magistrate of the Republic--our President--loved and honored
as few men ever were--so honest, so faithful, so true to his duty and his country, had been
foully murdered--had fallen by the bullet of an assassin. All hearts were stricken with horror.
The transition from extreme joy to profound sorrow was never more sudden and universal. Had
it been possible for a stranger, ignorant of the truth, to look over our land, he would have
supposed that there had come upon us some visitation of the Almighty not less dreadful than
that which once fell on ancient Egypt on that fearful night when there was not a house where
there was not one dead.

The nation wept for him.

After being gazed upon by myriads of loving eyes, under the dome of this magnificent Capitol,
the remains of our President were borne in solemn procession through our cities, towns, and
villages, all draped in the habilaments of sorrow, the symbols and tokens of profound and heartfelt
grief, to their final resting-place in the capital of his own State. There he sleeps, peacefully,
embalmed in his country's tears.

The Senate and House of Representatives of the United States have deemed it proper to commemorate
this tragic event by appropriate services. This day, the birth-day of him whom we mourn, has
properly been selected. An eminent citizen, distinguished by his labors and services in high
and responsible public positions at home and abroad--whose pen has instructed the present age
in the history of his country, and done much to transmit the fame and renown of that country
to future ages--Hon. George Bancroft--will now deliver a discourse.

Hon. GEORGE BANCROFT (who on coming forward to the Clerk's desk was greeted with warm demonstrations
of applause) then proceeded to deliver the Memorial Address.

The exercises of the day were closed by the following prayer and benediction by the Rev. Dr.
GRAY, Chaplain of the Senate:

God of a bereaved nation, from Thy high and holy Habitation look down upon us and suitably
impress us to-day, with a sense that God only is great. Kings and Presidents die; but Thou,
the Universal Ruler, livest to roll on thine undisturbed affairs forever, from Thy Throne.
A wail has gone up from the heart of the nation to heaven--O, hear, and pity, and assuage,
and save. We pray that Thou wilt command thy blessing now, which is life forevermore, upon
the family of the President dead; upon the President living upon the Ministers of state; upon
the united Houses of Congress; upon the Judges of our Courts; upon the officers of the Army
and the Navy; upon the broken families and desolated homes all over the laud; and especially
upon the nation. And grant that grace and peace and mercy from the Lord Jesus Christ, and the
love of God the Father, and the fellowship of God the Spirit, may rest upon and abide with
us all, forever and ever. Amen.

The Senators then returned to the Senate Chamber, and the President of the United States, the
orator of the day, and the invited guests withdrew, the Marine Band, stationed in the amphitheater,
performing national airs.

Resolved, That the chairmen of the joint committee appointed to make the necessary arrangements
to carry into effect the resolution of this Congress in relation to the memorial exercises
in honor of Abraham Lincoln be requested to communicate to Mr. Bancroft the aforegoing resolution,
receive his answer thereto, and present the same to both Houses of Congress.

These resolutions were transmitted to the Senate, where, on motion of the Hon. Solomon Foot,
of Vermont, they were considered by unanimous consent, and concurred in.

      *      *      *

In the Senate, on the 16th of February, Hon. Mr. FOOT stated that in pursuance of the concurrent
resolutions of the two Houses of Congress adopted on the 12th instant, the chairmen of the
joint committee of arrangements on the memorial exercises of the late President of the United
States, Abraham Lincoln, had placed a certified copy of said concurrent resolutions in the
hands of Hon. George Bancroft, and had requested of him a copy of his address on the occasion
referred to for publication, as would appear from the following correspondence, which he moved
be read, laid upon the table, and printed.

As no objection was made, the Secretary read as follows:

THE CAPITOL, WASHINGTON,
  February 13, 1866.

SIR: We have the honor to present to you an official copy of the two concurrent resolutions
adopted by the Senate and House of Representatives on the 12th instant, expressing the thanks
of Congress for the appropriate memorial address delivered by you on the life and services
of Abraham Lincoln, late President of the United States, and instructing us to request from
you a copy of the address for publication.

Having shared the high gratification of hearing the address, we take pleasure, in accordance
with the second of the concurrent resolutions, in requesting you to furnish a copy of the address
for publication.

We have the honor to be, with very great respect, your obedient servants,

SOLOMON FOOT,
  Chairman on the part of the Senate

E B. WASHBURNE,
  Chairman on the part of the House.

Hon. GEORGE BANCROFT.

WASHINGTON, D. C., February 14, 1866.

GENTLEMEN: I have received your letter of yesterday and a copy of the two concurrent resolutions
of Congress to which you refer. The thanks of the Senate and House of Representatives, for
the performance of the duty assigned me, I value as a very distinguished honor, and I shall
cheerfully furnish a copy of the address for publication.

I remain, gentlemen, very sincerely yours,

GEORGE BANCROFT.

Hon. SOLOMON FOOT,
  Chairman on the part of the Senate.

Hon. E B. WASHBURNE,
  Chairman on the part of the House.

In the House of Representatives, Hon. E. B. WASHBURNE, of Illinois, made the same statement,
and, after the correspondence submitted had been read, the House ordered an edition of twenty
thousand extra copies.

