 He was
in a hurry, and in an incredibly short time the two were one. 'Is it all over?' asked the groom.
'Are we securely married?' 'You are joined in the holy bonds of matrimony until death do you
part,' returned the clergyman, solemnly, beginning to add his blessing. But this died half-uttered
on his lips, for the bride slowly raised her head, threw back her bonnet, and the haughty face
and laughing eyes of the Capulet were before him. 'Bear witness,' she said, her shyness completely
gone, 'that I'm this gentleman's wife.' 'You are, indeed,' he stammered. 'But how--why--who
is this?' and he reached out a trembling hand toward the veiled lady. 'My maid,' returned the
bride; 'she came here like one of the cottagers, and we exchanged gowns while you were talking
to the people.' 'I hope, I sincerely hope, it's all right,' returned the poor man; 'but if
I had known, I would have spoken to your honored parent, first.' 'Yes, I'm sure of that,' she
laughed, 'and then we should not have been so happy.' At the moment a post-chaise drove up,
into which the bridal pair and the servant made haste to get. 'Pardon me that I cannot accompany
you home,' laughed the lady, leaning out to give the minister her hand in farewell. 'You cannot
know how grateful to you we are. I shall never be able to reward you; I can only give you my
thanks and prayers--and be sure to tell them at home how firmly you have married us.' The chaise
drove off, and the good man was left alone. He felt inclined to think that he had been dreaming,
until he looked down and saw in his hand a purse of gold pieces that the groom had slipped
into it, whispering, 'If you refuse for yourself, be my almoner and give it to the poor.' Before
the preacher had recovered his wits the carriage of the Capulets reappeared. The lovers, however,
did not re-appear for two years, and by that time Montague had unexpectedly fallen heir to
a fortune and a title, and was received with open arms by the new relatives. In our days it's
always the one who was not the prodigal who has the fatted calf killed for him."

"I'm afraid the poor minister was not very welcome when he had told his story," said Elizabeth.

"Clever enough, on my word," cried Archdale.

"Not quite to your liking, I fancy, though," answered Harwin.

"Do you think he would have had the wedding indoors, in the teeth of everybody?" laughed Katie.

Harwin assented, adding that he felt convinced that Master Archdale would have insisted upon
all the accompaniments of a grand wedding at any cost.

"Yes, I shall have that when my time comes," returned Stephen, looking straight before him
a trifle haughtily. But Harwin noticed that directly his eyes fell in passing back to their
watching of the shore, and that one sweeping glance was given to Katie.

"But can people be married in such an instant?" asked Waldo. "I always thought it was a work
of time--rather a formidable piece of business."

"Oh! when you come to two or three ministers of the Church of England, and the benedictions,
and all that, so it is," said Harwin; "but the real business part is an affair of--I was going
to say less than a minute." He sat silent after this, with his head bent, then, lifting it
suddenly, before anybody had spoken, he fixed his glance, with a musing expression, upon Waldo.
"I was wondering if I could remember the formula," he said; "I think I can. Mistress Royal,
allow Master Archdale to take your hand a moment, if you please."

Elizabeth made no responsive movement, and Archdale, for an instant, failed to turn toward
her. He had been looking at Katie while Harwin was speaking; but Katie drew back, hastily.

"Oh, do, Elizabeth!" she cried. "I want to see what it is like; do try with Stephen, and let
us hear." As she spoke, Archdale turned toward Elizabeth, courteously.

"Come, Mistress Royal," he said, as Harwin was explaining that he had asked her because she
happened to be on the proper side for a bride, "let us make an effective tableau for the amusement
of these mariners, who, since they are becalmed themselves, persist in wanting something going on."

Elizabeth had heard the entreaty in Katie's light words. She knew that if she herself had cared
for Mr. Archdale she could never have jested at marrying him. It made her all the more sure
that Katie did care, because, otherwise, the girl would have found it great fun to rouse a
little jealousy in the two admirers opposite, watching every movement. She yielded her hand
to the light clasp that held it, and listened with less interest than the others to Mr. Harwin's
distinct and rapid words until he came to the sentence, "I pronounce you man and wife." Then
she shivered, and he had scarcely finished the adjuration that follows--"What God hath joined
together let not man put asunder," when she snatched her hand away.

"It is too solemn," she cried, "it is too much; we ought not to have jested so."

Harwin laughed.

"Pardon me if I've made you uncomfortable," he said; "but you will forget it in five minutes,
and even for that time you must blame Master Waldo's curiosity."

"And mine," added Katie, at which young Waldo gave her a grateful glance. Then he joined with
her in breaking the hush that had fallen on the others. "Stephen," she said, "now for your
story. Do you think you are coming off scot-free?"

"I thought we had performed our parts," he said, turning to Elizabeth with a smile.

"Mistress Royal has already told her story," cried Waldo, "There's no escape for you."

"Escape would be difficult now, I confess."

"So begin."

He began obediently, but fortune was kinder than he had expected, for he had not fairly started
when Kit cried out,--

"A breeze! Here it comes. Heads to larboard!" And down went Archdale's and those of the two
ladies with him as the sail was shifted and the boat began to skim the water before the breeze
which freshened every minute. Soon they had gained the cove where they were to land, and Archdale's
story was never finished.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN.

BY ERNEST NUSSE.

The census of 1880 fixed the juvenile population of the United States at 20,000,000, of whom
10,158,954 were boys and 9,884,705 were girls. "From a political point of view," says the eminent
philanthropist, Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry, "the future of the nation depends on the physical and
intellectual education of its children, whose numbers increase every year, and who will soon
constitute the sovereign people. From the moral and social point of view, the welfare of society
imperatively demands that the atmosphere in which they live, and the treatment that they receive
from those intrusted with their care or custody, shall be such as to establish in them habits
of industry, of sobriety, of honesty, and good conduct. For injurious treatment of a child,
inasmuch as it tends to result in the distortion of its physical and moral nature, constitutes
an offence whose importance seriously effects the public order." But what is to be understood
by cruel treatment? It consists in every act of omission or of commission which causes or procures
physical injury or death. It is hardly necessary to observe that this definition must be limited
to its practical meaning, rather than interpreted in its broader, philosophical sense. We must
leave out of the question the results of improper or imperfect educational training and discipline.
It is doubtless a cause of harm to a delicate and nervous child to force the development of
its intelligence; a harsh word hastily uttered by parents may leave an ineffaceable impression
upon a sensitive organization; severity degenerates into injustice when it confounds a peevish
act, the result of physical disorder, with an act of deliberate disobedience. The weakness
which resigns its authority In order to spare itself the care of a child's education engenders
for life the spirit of insubordination. The humiliating and unjust reproach, the stinging sarcasm,
wound the child in its tenderest feelings;--but these are not the forms of cruelty and wrong
which fall within reach of the law. It is unable to interpose between the parents and the child,
except in case of an actual and serious offence, and for the rest it must rely upon the affection
planted by nature in the hearts of parents. These distinctions are more felt than expressed,
and opinion will never deceive itself in regard to the conduct of unnatural parents.

But if these propositions are absolutely incontestable, how do they leave room for the function
of a society? If children are beaten, abandoned, given over to odious practices, will not the
authorities, on the complaint of those interested, or compelled by public opinion, be able
adequately to fulfil the task? This reasoning, altogether French, would not properly take into
account the American temperament, the genius of the Anglo-Saxon race, of its institutions,
and of its usages. In France, since the fourteenth century, misdemeanors have been prosecuted
the more generally by the public minister, acting under whose orders are numerous officers
of judiciary police, who entertain the complaints of the public and send them, with the result
of their examination, to our courts. The magistrates charged with the case complete the investigations,
if they take place. The elements of the evidence are therefore combined when the prosecution
is instituted. In the United States these intermediate officials exist but imperfectly between
the injured party and the magistrate who renders judgment. From lack of sufficient evidence,
the rights of this injured party run the risk of being compromised through his inexperience.
Moreover, the complaint of the child, often directed against its parents or its legal guardians,
involves the examination of a delicate situation, which must be conducted with much discernment.
Without comparing the two systems, American and French, which correspond each to the particular
genius of the two nations, it will be seen that the American system leaves much more to private
initiative, and that it would become ineffectual when the victim of the offence, being a child,
has neither the energy nor the knowledge necessary to demonstrate that its complaint is well
founded, without the aid of some one in power. This is the aid which is given by the New York
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children; and we can now understand how the exigency
of the case, so powerfully felt by the practical intelligence of the Americans, has called
into existence this potent organization, which we may call the guardian of the rights of childhood,
for the repression of the offences from which it is liable to suffer. The following anecdote
shows how the necessity for this institution arose, in a manner at once thrilling and dramatic:--

Ten years ago in New York, on the top floor of a tenement-house, in a miserable room without
furniture, a dying woman lay on a pallet, in the last stage of consumption. A charitable lady
who visited her asked what she could do for her. The dying woman replied: "My hours are numbered,
but how can I die in peace when night and day I hear the beating by her mother-in-law of the
unhappy little girl who lives in the room next to mine." And, in fact, for a month her heart
had been torn by the cries of this child, Mary Ellen, kept in confinement by this brute. Much
moved by this recital, the visitor felt impelled to demand the interference of the police.
They told her this was impracticable unless she was able to furnish proof of her allegation.
She knew the facts only upon hearsay, and only in case a misdemeanor were actually proved would
it be possible for the police to interfere as she desired. The charitable feelings of the lady
would not permit her to stop here. She made inquiries among benevolent societies. But here
again she experienced a check. The societies could not receive the child except upon legal
commitment by an order of court. And charitable persons with the most benevolent tendencies,
being consulted on this difficulty, confessed themselves at a loss to suggest a remedy in the
case, and declared that it was dangerous to interfere between parents and children; that in
so doing one is liable to become involved in inextricable difficulties, since the heads of
the family are the best guardians of their children. However, the sorrowful appeal of the dying
woman echoed continually in the ears of her whose charitable aid had been implored. She resolved
upon a supreme effort to rescue this child. She sought Mr. Henry Bergh, a man who has never
been deaf to a cry of despair, and who has devoted his life to the protection of animals. Mr.
Bergh considered the life of a child to be quite as valuable as that of a beast, and gave it
as his opinion that the tribunals should be appealed to. A warrant was immediately procured
and the child was produced in court, its face covered with horrible wounds. A pair of scissors
with which these wounds had been inflicted were produced. The facts in the case caused a profound
sensation in the court and throughout the city. The mother-in-law was arrested, found guilty,
and the little girl was taken from her hands to receive an education which has rendered her
an elegant and accomplished young woman.

Humble beginnings, which it will be well for us to bear in remembrance for the confusion of
our pride! It is from the protection of animals that has sprung, in New York, that of the child.
And, when we contemplate the great number of societies in the United States,--the Humane Society
of Saratoga, of Bangor, of Keene, of Taunton, of Connecticut, the Western Pennsylvania, the
Tennessee Society, those of Nashville, of Cleveland, of Cincinnati, of Indianapolis, of Chicago,
of Peoria, of Sangamon, of Quincy, of Minnesota, of Minneapolis, extending, simultaneously,
their help to children and to the brutes, we shall be no longer astonished either at the combination
of effort explained by this historic origin, or especially at a philosophy which rightly esteems
that cruelty commences with the animal, only to end fatally with the human being. The proceeding
instituted at the instance of Mr. Henry Bergh was a most valuable precedent. The establishment
of a method of rescue, encouraged complaints, which, till then, had been silent, of the abandonment,
misery, or sufferings of children. Mr. Bergh's society found itself besieged, and, after deliberation
with his counsel, it was determined to establish another in New York, whose special mission
should be the protection of children. An old gentleman of high respectability, belonging to
the sect of the Quakers, Mr. John D. Wright, was elected to the presidency, which office he
held until his death, which occurred on the 21st of August, 1880. His successor is Mr. Elbridge
T. Gerry.

However, inasmuch as the authority with which the society sought to be invested had reference
to public justice, and involved the power to appear for the defence of the interests of others,
and to require the coöperation of public officials, a law was indispensable, in order to confer
these powers. Such a law was passed August 21, 1875, whose provisions covered not only the
case of the New York society, but determined the functions of all institutions of a similar
nature. On condition of complying with the prescribed formalities for acquiring a corporate
existence, the law granted to these institutions the right to make complaints, in any jurisdiction,
of violations of the statutes regarding children; it set forth, formally, the duty of magistrates
or officers of police, to cooperate with the societies acting in the limits of their several
jurisdictions. The boundaries of the ground of protection were thus defined, but there was
still lacking the requisite legislative authority. Experience showed that, besides the misdemeanors
of common law--attempts upon the morals, murder, assault and battery, etc.--a multitude of
offences against children remained unpunished. The society, therefore, solicited and obtained
from the Legislature, powers which permitted it to repress acts of cruelty towards children
that the law failed to reach. The first of these measures was the law of 1876, forbidding the
employment of minors under sixteen years as dancers, beggars, street peddlers, as gymnasts
or contortionists, or in indecent occupations prejudicial to their health or perilous to their
life. Then came the law of June 6, 1877, forbidding the admission of minors under fourteen
years into public places, liquor saloons, balls, concerts, theatres, unless accompanied by
a parent or legal guardian. With these laws, which it caused to be interpreted in the courts
in certain test cases, the society arrived at the most satisfactory results. There were no
longer seen in New York those juvenile beggars whose miserable appearance is made an instrument
of gain by their worthless masters; those vagrants who disguise their vagabondage under the
pretext of imaginary professions, collecting cigar stumps and rag picking; those little girls
who sell flowers at the doors of houses of bad repute, often concealing under this ostensible
occupation infamous transactions with panders who keep them in their pay. A determined warfare
was declared against the Italian padroni, who thrive upon the toil of the little unfortunates
to whom they pretend to teach music, and whom they utilize as peddlers and chimney-sweepers.
The conviction of the too notorious Ancarola was the signal for the suppression of these shameless
villains; the purchases of children ceased, and the cause of humanity triumphed, thanks to
the combined efforts of the society and of the Italian consul, after long and earnest conferences.
It is not only the Italians, but the children of all nationalities, who have profited from
this powerful patronage: Hungarian, German, Chinese, Irish, French. One of our compatriots,
a girl of fourteen years, came one day to implore its aid. Her father was a drunkard, who had
reached the lowest round in the ladder of degradation; her mother had no means of subsistence
except concubinage, nor her two sisters except prostitution. She begged that they would save
her from this life of shame. The society received her, procured her a position, a good education.
Learning that she was heiress to a considerable property left by a grandfather, the society
took active steps in France to secure to her her rights. Unfortunately, the agent who had possession
of the estate became insolvent after having squandered the property, and it was impossible
to recover it. The society continued to care for the young girl up to the day of her marriage
to a young man enjoying a regular salary of $1,200, and worthy of her in all respects.

