  They listened for life; the rattling fire
    Far off, and the far-off roar,
  Were all; and the colonel shook his head,
    And they turned to their guns once more.

  But Jessie said, "The slogan's done;
    But winna ye hear it noo,
  The Campbells are comin'? It's no a dream;
    Our succors hae broken through!"

  We heard the roar and the rattle afar,
    But the pipes we could not hear;
  So the men plied their work of hopeless war,
    And knew that the end was near.

  It was not long ere it made its way,--
    A shrilling, ceaseless sound:
  It was no noise from the strife afar,
    Or the sappers under ground.

  It was the pipes of the Highlanders!
    And now they played Auld Lang Syne;
  It came to our men like the voice of God,
    And they shouted along the line.

  And they wept and shook one another's hands,
    And the women sobbed in a crowd;
  And every one knelt down where he stood,
    And we all thanked God aloud.

  That happy time, when we welcomed them,
    Our men put Jessie first;
  And the general gave her his hand, and cheers
    Like a storm from the soldiers burst.

  And the pipers' ribbons and tartans streamed,
    Marching round and round our line;
  And our joyful cheers were broken with tears
    As the pipes played Auld Lang Syne.

NEW ENGLAND MINISTERS.

Dr. Sprague, of Albany, has added to the literature of our country two large octavo volumes,
containing biographical accounts of the Congregational clergy of New England, from its earliest
settlement until the year 1841. The book has been for the most part compiled from letters furnished
by different individuals, who, either through personal knowledge or through tradition, had
the most intimate acquaintance with the subjects of which they wrote.

The characters here sketched, though perfectly individual, are in so great a degree the result
of peculiar political influences, that it would be difficult to suppose their existence elsewhere
than in New England. We have therefore chosen this book as a kind of standpoint from which
to take a glance at the New England clergy and pulpit.

The earliest constitution of government in New England was a theocracy; it was the realization
of Arnold's idea of the identity of Church and State. Under it the clergy had peculiar powers
and privileges, which, it is but fair to say, they turned to the advantage of the Commonwealth
more than has generally been the case with any privileged order.

A time, however, came when the democratic element, which these men themselves had fostered,
worked out its logical results, by depriving them of all special immunities, and leaving them,
like any other citizens, to make their way by pure force of character, and to be rated, like
other men, simply for what they were and what they could do.

It is creditable to the intelligence and shrewdness of this body of men that the more far-sighted
among them received this change with satisfaction; that they were such uncommonly fair logicians
as to be willing to accept the direct inference from principles which they had been foremost
to inculcate, and, like men of strong mind and clear conscience, were not afraid to rest their
claim to influence and deference on the manfulness with which they should strive to deserve them.

Dr. Sprague's book contains pictures of life under both the old régime and the new. The following
extract from the venerable Josiah Quincy's recollections of the Rev. Mr. French, of Andover,
is interesting, as an illustration of the olden times.

"Mrs. Dowse, my maternal aunt, has often related to me her pride and delight at visiting at
the Rev. Mr. Phillips', her paternal grandfather's house, when a child; which was interesting
as a statement of the manners of those early times in Massachusetts, before the sceptre of
worldly power, which the first settlers of the Colony had placed in the hands of the clergy,
had been broken. The period was about between 1760 and the Revolution. The parsonage at Andover
was situated about two or three hundred rods from the meeting-house, which was three stories
high, of immense dimensions, far greater, I should think, than those of any meeting-houses
in these anti-church-going, degenerate times. It was on a hill, slightly elevated above the
parsonage, so that all the flock could see the pastor as he issued from it.

"Before the time of service, the congregation gradually assembled in early season, coming on
foot or on horseback, the ladies behind their lords or brothers or one another, on pillions,
so that before the time of service the whole space before the meeting-house was filled with
a waiting, respectful, and expecting multitude. At the moment of service the pastor issued
from his mansion with Bible and manuscript sermon under his arm, with his wife leaning on one
arm, flanked by his negro man on his side, as his wife was by her negro woman, the little negroes
being distributed according to their sex by the side of their respective parents. Then followed
every other member of the family according to age and rank, making often, with family visitants,
somewhat of a formidable procession. As soon as it appeared, the congregation, as if moved
by one spirit, began to move towards the door of the church; and before the procession reached
it, all were in their places.

"As soon as the pastor entered the church, the whole congregation rose and stood until the
pastor was in the pulpit and his family seated,--until which was done the whole assembly continued
standing. At the close of the service the congregation stood until he and his family had left
the church, before any one moved towards the door.

"Forenoon and afternoon the same course of proceeding was had, expressive of the reverential
relation in which the people acknowledged that they stood towards their clergyman.

"Such was the account given me by Mrs. Dowse in relation to times previous to my birth, and
which I relate as her narrative, and not as part of my recollections. The procession from the
parsonage, the disappearance of the people on the appearance of the procession, and that their
pastor was received with every mark of decorum and respect, I well remember, but of their rising
at his entrance and standing after the service until he had departed, I have no recollection;
my time was almost twenty years after that narrated by Mrs. Dowse. During that period the Revolution
had commenced."

Some might think it an advantage, if more of the decorum and reverence of such a state of society
had been preserved to our day; for this respect paid to the minister was but part of a general
and all-pervading system. Children were more reverential to their parents, scholars to their
teachers, the people to their magistrates. A want of reverence threatens now to become the
besetting sin of America, whether young or old.

The clergy of New England have, as a body, been distinguished for a rare union of the speculative
and the practical. In both points they have been so remarkable, that in observing the great
development of either of these qualities by itself one would naturally suppose that there was
no room for the other.

Generally speaking, they were rural pastors,--living on salaries so small as to afford hardly
a nominal support; and in order to bring up their families and give their sons a college education,
it was necessary to understand fully the practical savoir faire. Accordingly, they farmed and
gardened, and often took young people into their families to educate, and in these ways eked
out a subsistence. It is related of the venerable Moses Hallock, that he educated in his own
family, during his ministerial lifetime, three hundred young people, of whom thirty were females.
One hundred and thirty-two of these he fitted for college; fifty became ministers, and six
foreign missionaries.

Some of the clergy gained such an acquaintance with the practice of medicine as to be able
sometimes to unite the offices of physician of the body and of the soul; and not unfrequently
a general knowledge of law enabled the pastor to be the worldly as well as the spiritual counsellor
of his people. A striking case in point is that of the venerable Parson Eaton, who resided
in a lonely seafaring district on the coast of Maine, and preached to a congregation who lived
the amphibious life of farmers and fishermen. The town of Harpswell, where he ministered,--

"is a narrow projection of ten miles southward into Casco Bay, on both sides of which it comprises
within its incorporated limits several islands, some of them of considerable size and well
inhabited. In his pastoral visits and labors, the clergyman was often obliged to ride several
miles, and then cross the inlets of the sea, to preach a lecture or to minister comfort or
aid to some sick or suffering parishioner. In addition to his clerical duties, Mr. Eaton, having
experience and discernment in the more common forms of disease, was generally applied to in
sickness; and he usually carried with him a lancet and the more common and simple medicines.
If a case was likely to baffle his skill, he advised his patient to send for a regular physician.
His admirable sense, moreover, and his education fitted him to render aid and counsel in matters
of controversy; so that he often acted as an umpire, and very often to the settling of disputes.
Seldom did his people consult a lawyer; and it is even said, that, at the time of his death,
most of the wills in the town were in his handwriting."

It is a singular thing, that the preaching and the bent of mind of a set of men so intensely
practical should have been at the same time intensely speculative. Nowhere in the world, unless
perhaps in Scotland, have merely speculative questions excited the strong and engrossing interest
among the common people that they have in New England. Every man, woman, and child was more
or less a theologian. The minister, while he ground his scythe or sharpened his axe or laid
stone-fence, was inwardly grinding and hammering on those problems of existence which are as
old as man, and which Christian and heathen have alike pondered. The Germans call the whole
New England theology rationalistic, in distinction from traditional.

There are minds which are capable of receiving certain series of theological propositions without
even an effort at comparison,--without a perception of contradiction or inconsequency,--without
an effort at harmonizing. Such, however, were not the New England ministers. With them predestination
must be made to harmonize with freewill; the Divine entire efficiency with human freedom; the
existence of sin with the Divine benevolence;--and at it they went with stout hearts, as men
work who are not in the habit of being balked in their undertakings. Hence the Edwardses, the
Hopkinses, the Emmonses, with all their various schools and followers, who, leviathan-like,
have made the theological deep of New England to boil like a pot, and the agitation of whose
course remains to this day.

