Following close upon the rendition of the award of my predecessor as arbitrator of the claim
of the Italian subject Cerruti against the Republic of Colombia, differences arose between
the parties to the arbitration in regard to the scope and extension of the award, of which
certain articles were contested by Colombia, while Italy claimed their literal fulfillment.
The award having been made by the President of the United States, as an act of friendly consideration
and with the sole view to an impartial composition of the matter in dispute, I could not but
feel deep concern at such a miscarriage, and while unable to accept the Colombian theory that
I, in my official capacity, possessed continuing functions as arbitrator, with power to interpret
or revise the terms of the award, my best efforts were lent to bring the parties to a harmonious
agreement as to the execution of its provisions.

A naval demonstration by Italy resulted in an engagement to pay the liabilities claimed upon
their ascertainment; but this apparent disposition of the controversy was followed by a rupture
of diplomatic intercourse between Colombia and Italy, which still continues, although, fortunately,
without acute symptoms having supervened. Notwithstanding this, efforts are reported to be
continuing for the ascertainment of Colombia's contingent liability on account of Cerruti's
debts under the fifth article of the award.

A claim of an American citizen against the Dominican Republic for a public bridge over the
Ozama River, which has been in diplomatic controversy for several years, has been settled by
expert arbitration and an award in favor of the claimant amounting to about $90,000. It, however,
remains unpaid, despite urgent demands for its settlement according to the terms of the compact.

There is now every prospect that the participation of the United States in the Universal Exposition
to be held in Paris in 1900 will be on a scale commensurate with the advanced position held
by our products and industries in the world's chief marts.

The preliminary report of Mr. Moses P. Handy, who, under the act approved July 19, 1897, was
appointed special commissioner with a view to securing all attainable information necessary
to a full and complete understanding by Congress in regard to the participation of this Government
in the Paris Exposition, was laid before you by my message of December 6, 1897, and showed
the large opportunities opened to make known our national progress in arts, science, and manufactures,
as well as the urgent need of immediate and adequate provision to enable due advantage thereof
to be taken. Mr. Handy's death soon afterwards rendered it necessary for another to take up
and complete his unfinished work, and on January 11 last Mr. Thomas W. Cridler, Third Assistant
Secretary of State, was designated to fulfill that task. His report was laid before you by
my message of June 14, 1898, with the gratifying result of awakening renewed interest in the
projected display. By a provision in the sundry civil appropriation act of July 1, 1898, a
sum not to exceed $650,000 was allotted for the organization of a commission to care for the
proper preparation and installation of American exhibits and for the display of suitable exhibits
by the several Executive Departments, particularly by the Department of Agriculture, the Fish
Commission, and the Smithsonian Institution, in representation of the Government of the United
States.

Pursuant to that enactment I appointed Mr. Ferdinand W. Peck, of Chicago, commissioner-general,
with an assistant commissioner-general and a secretary. Mr. Peck at once proceeded to Paris,
where his success in enlarging the scope and variety of the United States exhibit has been
most gratifying. Notwithstanding the comparatively limited area of the exposition site--less
than one-half that of the World's Fair at Chicago--the space assigned to the United States
has been increased from the absolute allotment of 157,403 square feet reported by Mr. Handy
to some 202,000 square feet, with corresponding augmentation of the field for a truly characteristic
representation of the various important branches of our country's development. Mr. Peck's report
will be laid before you. In my judgment its recommendations will call for your early consideration,
especially as regards an increase of the appropriation to at least one million dollars in all,
so that not only may the assigned space be fully taken up by the best possible exhibits in
every class, but the preparation and installation be on so perfect a scale as to rank among
the first in that unparalleled competition of artistic and inventive production, and thus counterbalance
the disadvantage with which we start as compared with other countries whose appropriations
are on a more generous scale and whose preparations are in a state of much greater forwardness
than our own.

Where our artisans have the admitted capacity to excel, where our inventive genius has initiated
many of the grandest discoveries of these later days of the century, and where the native resources
of our land are as limitless as they are valuable to supply the world's needs, it is our province,
as it should be our earnest care, to lead in the march of human progress, and not rest content
with any secondary place. Moreover, if this be due to ourselves, it is no less due to the great
French nation whose guests we become, and which has in so many ways testified its wish and
hope that our participation shall befit the place the two peoples have won in the field of
universal development.

The commercial arrangement made with France on the 28th of May, 1898, under the provisions
of section 3 of the tariff act of 1897, went into effect on the 1st day of June following.
It has relieved a portion of our export trade from serious embarrassment. Further negotiations
are now pending under section 4 of the same act with a view to the increase of trade between
the two countries to their mutual advantage. Negotiations with other governments, in part interrupted
by the war with Spain, are in progress under both sections of the tariff act. I hope to be
able to announce some of the results of these negotiations during the present session of Congress.

Negotiations to the same end with Germany have been set on foot. Meanwhile no effort has been
relaxed to convince the Imperial Government of the thoroughness of our inspection of pork products
for exportation, and it is trusted that the efficient administration of this measure by the
Department of Agriculture will be recognized as a guaranty of the healthfulness of the food
staples we send abroad to countries where their use is large and necessary.

I transmitted to the Senate on the 10th of February last information touching the prohibition
against the importation of fresh fruits from this country, which had then recently been decreed
by Germany on the ground of danger of disseminating the San Jose scale insect. This precautionary
measure was justified by Germany on the score of the drastic steps taken in several States
of the Union against the spread of the pest, the elaborate reports of the Department of Agriculture
being put in evidence to show the danger to German fruit-growing interests should the scale
obtain a lodgment in that country. Temporary relief was afforded in the case of large consignments
of fruit then on the way by inspection and admission when found noninfected. Later the prohibition
was extended to dried fruits of every kind, but was relaxed so as to apply only to unpeeled
fruit and fruit waste. As was to be expected, the alarm reached to other countries, and Switzerland
has adopted a similar inhibition. Efforts are in progress to induce the German and Swiss Governments
to relax the prohibition in favor of dried fruits shown to have been cured under circumstances
rendering the existence of animal life impossible.

Our relations with Great Britain have continued on the most friendly footing. Assenting to
our request, the protection of Americans and their interests in Spanish jurisdiction was assumed
by the diplomatic and consular representatives of Great Britain, who fulfilled their delicate
and arduous trust with tact and zeal, eliciting high commendation. I may be allowed to make
fitting allusion to the instance of Mr. Ramsden, Her Majesty's consul at Santiago de Cuba,
whose untimely death after distinguished service and untiring effort during the siege of that
city was sincerely lamented.

In the early part of April last, pursuant to a request made at the instance of the Secretary
of State by the British ambassador at this capital, the Canadian government granted facilities
for the passage of four United States revenue cutters from the Great Lakes to the Atlantic
coast by way of the Canadian canals and the St. Lawrence River. The vessels had reached Lake
Ontario and were there awaiting the opening of navigation when war was declared between the
United States and Spain. Her Majesty's Government thereupon, by a communication of the latter
part of April, stated that the permission granted before the outbreak of hostilities would
not be withdrawn provided the United States Government gave assurance that the vessels in question
would proceed direct to a United States port without engaging in any hostile operation. This
Government promptly agreed to the stipulated condition, it being understood that the vessels
would not be prohibited from resisting any hostile attack.

It will give me especial satisfaction if I shall be authorized to communicate to you a favorable
conclusion of the pending negotiations with Great Britain in respect to the Dominion of Canada.
It is the earnest wish of this Government to remove all sources of discord and irritation in
our relations with the neighboring Dominion. The trade between the two countries is constantly
increasing, and it is important to both countries that all reasonable facilities should be
granted for its development.

The Government of Greece strongly urges the onerousness of the duty here imposed upon the currants
of that country, amounting to 100 per cent or more of their market value. This fruit is stated
to be exclusively a Greek product, not coming into competition with any domestic product. The
question of reciprocal commercial relations with Greece, including the restoration of currants
to the free list, is under consideration.

The long-standing claim of Bernard Campbell for damages for injuries sustained from a violent
assault committed against him by military authorities in the island of Haiti has been settled
by the agreement of that Republic to pay him $10,000 in American gold. Of this sum $5,000 has
already been paid. It is hoped that other pending claims of American citizens against that
Republic may be amicably adjusted.

Pending the consideration by the Senate of the treaty signed June 1897, by the plenipotentiaries
of the United States and of the Republic of Hawaii, providing for the annexation of the islands,
a joint resolution to accomplish the same purpose by accepting the offered cession and incorporating
the ceded territory into the Union was adopted by the Congress and approved July 7, 1898. I
thereupon directed the United States steamship Philadelphia to convey Rear-Admiral Miller to
Honolulu, and intrusted to his hands this important legislative act, to be delivered to the
President of the Republic of Hawaii, with whom the Admiral and the United States minister were
authorized to make appropriate arrangements for transferring the sovereignty of the islands
to the United States. This was simply but impressively accomplished on the 12th of August last
by the delivery of a certified copy of the resolution to President Dole, who thereupon yielded
up to the representative of the Government of the United States the sovereignty and public
property of the Hawaiian Islands.

Pursuant to the terms of the joint resolution and in exercise of the authority thereby conferred
upon me, I directed that the civil, judicial, and military powers theretofore exercised by
the officers of the Government of the Republic of Hawaii should continue to be exercised by
those officers until Congress shall provide a government for the incorporated territory, subject
to my power to remove such officers and to fill vacancies. The President, officers, and troops
of the Republic thereupon took the oath of allegiance to the United States, thus providing
for the uninterrupted continuance of all the administrative and municipal functions of the
annexed territory until Congress shall otherwise enact.

Following the further provision of the joint resolution, I appointed the Hons. Shelby M. Cullom,
of Illinois, John T. Morgan, of Alabama, Robert R. Hitt, of Illinois, Sanford B. Dole, of Hawaii,
and Walter F. Frear, of Hawaii, as commissioners to confer and recommend to Congress such legislation
concerning the Hawaiian Islands as they should deem necessary or proper. The commissioners
having fulfilled the mission confided to them, their report will be laid before you at an early
day. It is believed that their recommendations will have the earnest consideration due to the
magnitude of the responsibility resting upon you to give such shape to the relationship of
those mid-Pacific lands to our home Union as will benefit both in the highest degree, realizing
the aspirations of the community that has cast its lot with us and elected to share our political
heritage, while at the same time justifying the foresight of those who for three-quarters of
a century have looked to the assimilation of Hawaii as a natural and inevitable consummation,
in harmony with our needs and in fulfillment of our cherished traditions.

The questions heretofore pending between Hawaii and Japan growing out of the alleged mistreatment
of Japanese treaty immigrants were, I am pleased to say, adjusted before the act of transfer
by the payment of a reasonable indemnity to the Government of Japan.

Under the provisions of the joint resolution, the existing customs relations of the Hawaiian
Islands with the United States and with other countries remain unchanged until legislation
shall otherwise provide. The consuls of Hawaii here and in foreign countries continue to fulfill
their commercial agencies, while the United States consulate at Honolulu is maintained for
all appropriate services pertaining to trade and the revenue. It would be desirable that all
foreign consuls in the Hawaiian Islands should receive new exequaturs from this Government.

The attention of Congress is called to the fact that, our consular offices having ceased to
exist in Hawaii and being about to cease in other countries coming under the sovereignty of
the United States, the provisions for the relief and transportation of destitute American seamen
in these countries under our consular regulations will in consequence terminate. It is proper,
therefore, that new legislation should be enacted upon this subject in order to meet the changed
conditions.

The interpretation of certain provisions of the extradition convention of December 11, 1861,
has been at various times the occasion of controversy with the Government of Mexico. An acute
difference arose in the case of the Mexican demand for the delivery of Jesus Guerra, who, having
led a marauding expedition near the border with the proclaimed purpose of initiating an insurrection
against President Diaz, escaped into Texas. Extradition was refused on the ground that the
alleged offense was political in its character, and therefore came within the treaty proviso
of nonsurrender. The Mexican contention was that the exception only related to purely political
offenses, and that as Guerra's acts were admixed with the common crime of murder, arson, kidnaping,
and robbery, the option of nondelivery became void, a position which this Government was unable
to admit in view of the received international doctrine and practice in the matter. The Mexican
Government, in view of this, gave notice January 24, 1898, of the termination of the convention,
to take effect twelve months from that date, at the same time inviting the conclusion of a
new convention, toward which negotiations are on foot.

In this relation I may refer to the necessity of some amendment of our existing extradition
statute. It is a common stipulation of such treaties that neither party shall be bound to give
up its own citizens, with the added proviso in one of our treaties, that with Japan, that it
may surrender if it see fit. It is held in this country by an almost uniform course of decisions
that where a treaty negatives the obligation to surrender the President is not invested with
legal authority to act. The conferment of such authority would be in the line of that sound
morality which shrinks from affording secure asylum to the author of a heinous crime. Again,
statutory provision might well be made for what is styled extradition by way of transit, whereby
a fugitive surrendered by one foreign government to another may be conveyed across the territory
of the United States to the jurisdiction of the demanding state. A recommendation in this behalf
made in the President's message of 1886 was not acted upon. The matter is presented for your
consideration.

The problem of the Mexican free zone has been often discussed with regard to its inconvenience
as a provocative of smuggling into the United States along an extensive and thinly guarded
land border. The effort made by the joint resolution of March 1, 1895, to remedy the abuse
charged by suspending the privilege of free transportation in bond across the territory of
the United States to Mexico failed of good result, as is stated in Report No. 702 of the House
of Representatives, submitted in the last session, March 11, 1898. As the question is one to
be conveniently met by wise concurrent legislation of the two countries looking to the protection
of the revenues by harmonious measures operating equally on either side of the boundary, rather
than by conventional arrangements, I suggest that Congress consider the advisability of authorizing
and inviting a conference of representatives of the Treasury Departments of the United States
and Mexico to consider the subject in all its complex bearings, and make report with pertinent
recommendations to the respective Governments for the information and consideration of their
Congresses.

The Mexican Water Boundary Commission has adjusted all matters submitted to it to the satisfaction
of both Governments save in three important cases--that of the "Chamizal" at El Paso, Tex.,
where the two commissioners failed to agree, and wherein, for this case only, this Government
has proposed to Mexico the addition of a third member; the proposed elimination of what are
known as "Bancos," small isolated islands formed by the cutting off of bends in the Rio Grande,
from the operation of the treaties of 1884 and 1889, recommended by the commissioners and approved
by this Government, but still under consideration by Mexico; and the subject of the "Equitable
distribution of the waters of the Rio Grande," for which the commissioners recommended an international
dam and reservoir, approved by Mexico, but still under consideration by this Government. Pending
these questions it is necessary to extend the life of the commission, which expires December
23 next.

The coronation of the young Queen of the Netherlands was made the occasion of fitting congratulations.

The claim of Victor H. McCord against Peru, which for a number of years has been pressed by
this Government and has on several occasions attracted the attention of the Congress, has been
satisfactorily adjusted. A protocol was signed May 17, 1898, whereby, the fact of liability
being admitted, the question of the amount to be awarded was submitted to the chief justice
of Canada as sole arbitrator. His award sets the indemnity due the claimant at $40,000.

The Government of Peru has given the prescribed notification of its intention to abrogate the
treaty of friendship, commerce, and navigation concluded with this country August 31, 1887.
As that treaty contains many important provisions necessary to the maintenance of commerce
and good relations, which could with difficulty be replaced by the negotiation of renewed provisions
within the brief twelve months intervening before the treaty terminates, I have invited suggestions
by Peru as to the particular provisions it is desired to annul, in the hope of reaching an
arrangement whereby the remaining articles may be provisionally saved.

His Majesty the Czar having announced his purpose to raise the Imperial Russian mission at
this capital to the rank of an embassy, I responded, under the authority conferred by the act
of March 3, 1893, by commissioning and accrediting the actual representative at St. Petersburg
in the capacity of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary. The Russian ambassador to
this country has since presented his credentials.

The proposal of the Czar for a general reduction of the vast military establishments that weigh
so heavily upon many peoples in time of peace was communicated to this Government with an earnest
invitation to be represented in the conference which it is contemplated to assemble with a
view to discussing the means of accomplishing so desirable a result. His Majesty was at once
informed of the cordial sympathy of this Government with the principle involved in his exalted
proposal and of the readiness of the United States to take part in the conference. The active
military force of the United States, as measured by our population, territorial area, and taxable
wealth, is, and under any conceivable prospective conditions must continue to be, in time of
peace so conspicuously less than that of the armed powers to whom the Czar's appeal is especially
addressed that the question can have for us no practical importance save as marking an auspicious
step toward the betterment of the condition of the modern peoples and the cultivation of peace
and good will among them; but in this view it behooves us as a nation to lend countenance and
aid to the beneficent project.

The claims of owners of American sealing vessels for seizure by Russian cruisers in Bering
Sea are being pressed to a settlement. The equities of the cases justify the expectation that
a measure of reparation will eventually be accorded in harmony with precedent and in the light
of the proven facts.

The recommendation made in my special message of April 27 last is renewed, that appropriation
be made to reimburse the master and owners of the Russian bark Hans for wrongful arrest of
the master and detention of the vessel in February, 1896, by officers of the United States
district court for the southern district of Mississippi. The papers accompanying my said message
make out a most meritorious claim and justify the urgency with which it has been presented
by the Government of Russia.

Malietoa Laupepa, King of Samoa, died on August 22 last. According to Article I of the general
act of Berlin, "his successor shall be duly elected according to the laws and customs of Samoa."

Arrangements having been agreed upon between the signatories of the general act for the return
of Mataafa and the other exiled Samoan chiefs, they were brought from Jaluit by a German war
vessel and landed at Apia on September 18 last.

Whether the death of Malietoa and the return of his old-time rival Mataafa will add to the
undesirable complications which the execution of the tripartite general act has heretofore
developed remains to be seen. The efforts of this Government will, as heretofore, be addressed
toward a harmonious and exact fulfillment of the terms of the international engagement to which
the United States became a party in 1889.

The Cheek claim against Siam, after some five years of controversy, has been adjusted by arbitration
under an agreement signed July 6, 1897, an award of 706,721 ticals (about $187,987.78 ), with
release of the Cheek estate from mortgage claims, having been rendered March 21, 1898, in favor
of the claimant by the arbitrator, Sir Nicholas John Hannen, British chief justice for China
and Japan.

An envoy from Siam has been accredited to this Government and has presented his credentials.

Immediately upon the outbreak of the war with Spain the Swiss Government, fulfilling the high
mission it has deservedly assumed as the patron of the International Red Cross, proposed to
the United States and Spain that they should severally recognize and carry into execution,
as a modus vivendi, during the continuance of hostilities, the additional articles proposed
by the international conference of Geneva, October 20, 1868, extending the effects of the existing
Red Cross convention of 1864 to the conduct of naval war. Following the example set by France
and Germany in 1870 in adopting such a modus vivendi, and in view of the accession of the United
States to those additional articles in 1882, although the exchange of ratifications thereof
still remained uneffected, the Swiss proposal was promptly and cordially accepted by us, and
simultaneously by Spain.

This Government feels a keen satisfaction in having thus been enabled to testify its adherence
to the broadest principles of humanity even amidst the clash of war, and it is to be hoped
that the extension of the Red Cross compact to hostilities by sea as well as on land may soon
become an accomplished fact through the general promulgation of the additional naval Red Cross
articles by the maritime powers now parties to the convention of 1864.

The important question of the claim of Switzerland to the perpetual cantonal allegiance of
American citizens of Swiss origin has not made hopeful progress toward a solution, and controversies
in this regard still continue.

The newly accredited envoy of the United States to the Ottoman Porte carries instructions looking
to the disposal of matters in controversy with Turkey for a number of years. He is especially
charged to press for a just settlement of our claims for indemnity by reason of the destruction
of the property of American missionaries resident in that country during the Armenian troubles
of 1895, as well as for the recognition of older claims of equal justness.

He is also instructed to seek an adjustment of the dispute growing out of the refusal of Turkey
to recognize the acquired citizenship of Ottoman-born persons naturalized in the United States
since 1869 without prior imperial consent, and in the same general relation he is directed
to endeavor to bring about a solution of the question which has more or less acutely existed
since 1869 concerning the jurisdictional rights of the United States in matters of criminal
procedure and punishment under Article IV of the treaty of 1830. This latter difficulty grows
out of a verbal difference, claimed by Turkey to be essential, between the original Turkish
text and the promulgated translation.

After more than two years from the appointment of a consul of this country to Erzerum, he has
received his exequatur.

The arbitral tribunal appointed under the treaty of February 2, 1897, between Great Britain
and Venezuela, to determine the boundary line between the latter and the colony of British
Guiana, is to convene at Paris during the present month. It is a source of much gratification
to this Government to see the friendly resort of arbitration applied to the settlement of this
controversy, not alone because of the earnest part we have had in bringing about the result,
but also because the two members named on behalf of Venezuela, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller and
Mr. Justice Brewer, chosen from our highest court, appropriately testify the continuing interest
we feel in the definitive adjustment of the question according to the strictest rules of justice.
The British members, Lord Herschell and Sir Richard Collins, are jurists of no less exalted
repute, while the fifth member and president of the tribunal, M. F. De Martens, has earned
a world-wide reputation as an authority upon international law.

The claim of Felipe Scandella against Venezuela for arbitrary expulsion and injury to his business
has been adjusted by the revocation of the order of expulsion and by the payment of the sum
of $16,000.

I have the satisfaction of being able to state that the Bureau of the American Republics, created
in 1890 as the organ for promoting commercial intercourse and fraternal relations among the
countries of the Western Hemisphere, has become a more efficient instrument of the wise purposes
of its founders, and is receiving the cordial support of the contributing members of the international
union which are actually represented in its board of management. A commercial directory, in
two volumes, containing a mass of statistical matter descriptive of the industrial and commercial
interests of the various countries, has been printed in English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French,
and a monthly bulletin published in these four languages and distributed in the Latin-American
countries as well as in the United States has proved to be a valuable medium for disseminating
information and furthering the varied interests of the international union.

During the past year the important work of collecting information of practical benefit to American
industries and trade through the agency of the diplomatic and consular officers has been steadily
advanced, and in order to lay such data before the public with the least delay the practice
was begun in January, 1898, of issuing the commercial reports from day to day as they are received
by the Department of State. It is believed that for promptitude as well as fullness of information
the service thus supplied to our merchants and manufacturers will be found to show sensible
improvement and to merit the liberal support of Congress.

The experiences of the last year bring forcibly home to us a sense of the burdens and the waste
of war. We desire, in common with most civilized nations, to reduce to the lowest possible
point the damage sustained in time of war by peaceable trade and commerce. It is true we may
suffer in such cases less than other communities, but all nations are damaged more or less
by the state of uneasiness and apprehension into which an outbreak of hostilities throws the
entire commercial world. It should be our object, therefore, to minimize, so far as practicable,
this inevitable loss and disturbance. This purpose can probably best be accomplished by an
international agreement to regard all private property at sea as exempt from capture or destruction
by the forces of belligerent powers. The United States Government has for many years advocated
this humane and beneficent principle, and is now in position to recommend it to other powers
without the imputation of selfish motives. I therefore suggest for your consideration that
the Executive be authorized to correspond with the governments of the principal maritime powers
with a view of incorporating into the permanent law of civilized nations the principle of the
exemption of all private property at sea, not contraband of war, from capture or destruction
by belligerent powers.

The Secretary of the Treasury reports that the receipts of the Government from all sources
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1898, including $64,751,223 received from sale of Pacific
railroads, amounted to $405,321,335, and its expenditures to $443,168,582. There was collected
from customs $149,575,062 and from internal revenue $170,900,641. Our dutiable imports amounted
to $324,635,479, a decrease of $58,156,690 over the preceding year, and importations free of
duty amounted to $291,414,175, a decrease from the preceding year of $90,524,068. Internal-revenue
receipts exceeded those of the preceding year by $24,212,067.

The total tax collected on distilled spirits was $92,546,999; on manufactured tobacco, $36,230,522,
and on fermented liquors, $39,515,421. We exported merchandise during the year amounting to
$1,231,482,330, an increase of $180,488,774 from the preceding year.

It is estimated upon the basis of present revenue laws that the receipts of the Government
for the year ending June 30, 1899, will be $577,874,647, and its expenditures $689,874,647,
resulting in a deficiency of $112,000,000.

On the 1st of December, 1898, there was held in the Treasury gold coin amounting to $138,441,547,
gold bullion amounting to $138,502,545, silver bullion amounting to $93,359,250, and other
forms of money amounting to $451,963,981.

On the same date the amount of money of all kinds in circulation, or not included in Treasury
holdings, was $1,886,879,504, an increase for the year of $165,794,966. Estimating our population
at 75,194,000 at the time mentioned, the per capita circulation was $25.09. On the same date
there was in the Treasury gold bullion amounting to $138,502,545.

The provisions made for strengthening the resources of the Treasury in connection with the
war have given increased confidence in the purpose and power of the Government to maintain
the present standard, and have established more firmly than ever the national credit at home
and abroad. A marked evidence of this is found in the inflow of gold to the Treasury. Its net
gold holdings on November 1, 1898, were $239,885,162 as compared with $153,573,147 on November
1, 1897, and an increase of net cash of $207,756,100, November 1, 1897, to $300,238,275, November
1, 1898. The present ratio of net Treasury gold to outstanding Government liabilities, including
United States notes, Treasury notes of 1890, silver certificates, currency certificates, standard
silver dollars, and fractional silver coin, November 1, 1898, was 25.35 per cent, as compared
with 16.96 per cent, November 1, 1897. This recommendation was made in the belief that such
provisions of law would insure to a greater degree the safety of the present standard, and
better protect our currency from the dangers to which it is subjected from a disturbance in
the general business conditions of the country.

In my judgment the present condition of the Treasury amply justifies the immediate enactment
of the legislation recommended one year ago, under which a portion of the gold holdings should
be placed in a trust fund from which greenbacks should be redeemed upon presentation, but when
once redeemed should not thereafter be paid out except for gold.

It is not to be inferred that other legislation relating to our currency is not required; on
the contrary, there is an obvious demand for it.

The importance of adequate provision which will insure to our future a money standard related
as our money standard now is to that of our commercial rivals is generally recognized.

The companion proposition that our domestic paper currency shall be kept safe and yet be so
related to the needs of our industries and internal commerce as to be adequate and responsive
to such needs is a proposition scarcely less important. The subject, in all its parts, is commended
to the wise consideration of the Congress.

The annexation of Hawaii and the changed relations of the United States to Cuba, Puerto Rico,
and the Philippines resulting from the war, compel the prompt adoption of a maritime policy
by the United States. There should be established regular and frequent steamship communication,
encouraged by the United States, under the American flag, with the newly acquired islands.
Spain furnished to its colonies, at an annual cost of about $2,000,000, steamship lines communicating
with a portion of the world's markets, as well as with trade centers of the home Government.
The United States will not undertake to do less. It is our duty to furnish the people of Hawaii
with facilities, under national control, for their export and import trade. It will be conceded
that the present situation calls for legislation which shall be prompt, durable, and liberal.

The part which American merchant vessels and their seamen performed in the war with Spain demonstrates
that this service, furnishing both pickets and the second line of defense, is a national necessity,
and should be encouraged in every constitutional way. Details and methods for the accomplishment
of this purpose are discussed in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to which the
attention of Congress is respectfully invited.

In my last annual message I recommended that Congress authorize the appointment of a commission
for the purpose of making systematic investigations with reference to the cause and prevention
of yellow fever. This matter has acquired an increased importance as a result of the military
occupation of the island of Cuba and the commercial intercourse between this island and the
United States which we have every reason to expect. The sanitary problems connected with our
new relations with the island of Cuba and the acquisition of Puerto Rico are no less important
than those relating to finance, commerce, and administration. It is my earnest desire that
these problems may be considered by competent experts and that everything may be done which
the most recent advances in sanitary science can offer for the protection of the health of
our soldiers in those islands and of our citizens who are exposed to the dangers of infection
from the importation of yellow fever. I therefore renew my recommendation that the authority
of Congress may be given and a suitable appropriation made to provide for a commission of experts
to be appointed for the purpose indicated.

Under the act of Congress approved April 26, 1898, authorizing the President in his discretion,
"upon a declaration of war by Congress, or a declaration by Congress that war exists," I directed
the increase of the Regular Army to the maximum of 62,000, authorized in said act.

There are now in the Regular Army 57,862 officers and men. In said act it was provided--

That at the end of any war in which the United States may become involved the Army shall be
reduced to a peace basis by the transfer in the same arm of the service or absorption by promotion
or honorable discharge, under such regulations as the Secretary of War may establish, of supernumerary
commissioned officers and the honorable discharge or transfer of supernumerary enlisted men;
and nothing contained in this act shall be construed as authorizing the permanent increase
of the commissioned or enlisted force of the Regular Army beyond that now provided by the law
in force prior to the passage of this act, except as to the increase of twenty-five majors
provided for in section 1 hereof. The importance of legislation for the permanent increase
of the Army is therefore manifest, and the recommendation of the Secretary of War for that
purpose has my unqualified approval. There can be no question that at this time, and probably
for some time in the future, 100,000 men will be none too many to meet the necessities of the
situation. At all events, whether that number shall be required permanently or not, the power
should be given to the President to enlist that force if in his discretion it should be necessary;
and the further discretion should be given him to recruit for the Army within the above limit
from the inhabitants of the islands with the government of which we are charged. It is my purpose
to muster out the entire Volunteer Army as soon as the Congress shall provide for the increase
of the regular establishment. This will be only an act of justice and will be much appreciated
by the brave men who left their homes and employments to help the country in its emergency.
This left the Kansas Pacific case unconcluded. By a decree of the court in that case an upset
price for the property was fixed at a sum which would yield to the Government only $2,500,000
upon its lien. The sale, at the instance of the Government, was postponed first to December
15, 1897, and later, upon the application of the United States, was postponed to the 16th day
of February, 1898.

Having satisfied myself that the interests of the Government required that an effort should
be made to obtain a larger sum, I directed the Secretary of the Treasury, under the act passed
March 3, 1887, to pay out of the Treasury to the persons entitled to receive the same the amounts
due upon all prior mortgages upon the Eastern and Middle divisions of said railroad out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, whereupon the Attorney-General prepared
a petition to be presented to the court, offering to redeem said prior liens in such manner
as the court might direct, and praying that thereupon the United States might be held to be
subrogated to all the rights of said prior lien holders and that a receiver might be appointed
to take possession of the mortgaged premises and maintain and operate the same until the court
or Congress otherwise directed. Thereupon the reorganization committee agreed that if said
petition was withdrawn and the sale allowed to proceed on the 16th of February, 1898, they
would bid a sum at the sale which would realize to the Government the entire principal of its
debt, $6,303,000.

Believing that no better price could be obtained and appreciating the difficulties under which
the Government would labor if it should become the purchaser of the road at the sale, in the
absence of any authority by Congress to take charge of and operate the road I directed that
upon the guaranty of a minimum bid which should give the Government the principal of its debt
the sale should proceed. By this transaction the Government secured an advance of $3,803,000
over and above the sum which the court had fixed as the upset price, and which the reorganization
committee had declared was the maximum which they would pay for the property.

It is a gratifying fact that the result of these proceedings against the Union Pacific system
and the Kansas Pacific line is that the Government has received on account of its subsidy claim
the sum of $64,751,223.75, an increase of $18,997,163.76 over the sum which the reorganization
committee originally agreed to bid for the joint property, the Government receiving its whole
claim, principal and interest, on the Union Pacific, and the principal of its debt on the Kansas
Pacific Railroad.

Steps had been taken to foreclose the Government's lien upon the Central Pacific Railroad Company,
but before action was commenced Congress passed an act, approved July 7, 1898, creating a commission
consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney-General, and the Secretary of the
Interior, and their successors in office, with full power to settle the indebtedness to the
Government growing out of the issue of bonds in aid of the construction of the Central Pacific
and Western Pacific bond-aided railroads, subject to the approval of the President.

No report has yet been made to me by the commission thus created. Whatever action is had looking
to a settlement of the indebtedness in accordance with the act referred to will be duly submitted
to the Congress.

I deem it my duty to call to the attention of Congress the condition of the present building
occupied by the Department of Justice. The business of that Department has increased very greatly
since it was established in its present quarters. The building now occupied by it is neither
large enough nor of suitable arrangement for the proper accommodation of the business of the
Department. The Supervising Architect has pronounced it unsafe and unsuited for the use to
which it is put. The Attorney-General in his report states that the library of the Department
is upon the fourth floor, and that all the space allotted to it is so crowded with books as
to dangerously overload the structure. The first floor is occupied by the Court of Claims.
The building is of an old and dilapidated appearance, unsuited to the dignity which should
attach to this important Department.

A proper regard for the safety, comfort, and convenience of the officers and employees would
justify the expenditure of a liberal sum of money in the erection of a new building of commodious
proportions and handsome appearance upon the very advantageous site already secured for that
purpose, including the ground occupied by the present structure and adjoining vacant lot, comprising
in all a frontage of 201 feet on Pennsylvania avenue and a depth of 136 feet.

In this connection I may likewise refer to the inadequate accommodations provided for the Supreme
Court in the Capitol, and suggest the wisdom of making provision for the erection of a separate
building for the court and its officers and library upon available ground near the Capitol.

The postal service of the country advances with extraordinary growth. Within twenty years both
the revenues and the expenditures of the Post-Office Department have multiplied threefold.
In the last ten years they have nearly doubled. Our postal business grows much more rapidly
than our population. It now involves an expenditure of $100,000,000 a year, numbers 73,000
post-offices, and enrolls 200,000 employees. This remarkable extension of a service which is
an accurate index of the public conditions presents gratifying evidence of the advancement
of education, of the increase of communication and business activity, and of the improvement
of mail facilities leading to their constantly augmenting use.

The war with Spain laid new and exceptional labors on the Post-Office Department. The mustering
of the military and naval forces of the United States required special mail arrangements for
every camp and every campaign. The communication between home and camp was naturally eager
and expectant. In some of the larger places of rendezvous as many as 50,000 letters a day required
handling. This necessity was met by the prompt detail and dispatch of experienced men from
the established force and by directing all the instrumentalities of the railway mail and post-office
service, so far as necessary, to this new need. Congress passed an act empowering the postmaster-General
to establish offices or branches at every military camp or station, and under this authority
the postal machinery was speedily put into effective operation.

Under the same authority, when our forces moved upon Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines
they were attended and followed by the postal service. Though the act of Congress authorized
the appointment of postmasters where necessary, it was early determined that the public interests
would best be subserved, not by new designations, but by the detail of experienced men familiar
with every branch of the service, and this policy was steadily followed. When the territory
which was the theater of conflict came into our possession, it became necessary to reestablish
mail facilities for the resident population as well as to provide them for our forces of occupation,
and the former requirement was met through the extension and application of the latter obligation.
I gave the requisite authority, and the same general principle was applied to this as to other
branches of civil administration under military occupation. The details are more particularly
given in the report of the postmaster-General, and, while the work is only just begun, it is
pleasing to be able to say that the service in the territory which has come under our control
is already materially improved.

The following recommendations of the Secretary of the Navy relative to the increase of the
Navy have my earnest approval:

1. Three seagoing sheathed and coppered battle ships of about 13,500 tons trial displacement,
carrying the heaviest armor and most powerful ordnance for vessels of their class, and to have
the highest practicable speed and great radius of action. Estimated cost, exclusive of armor
and armament, $3,600,000 each.

2.

3. Three sheathed and coppered protected cruisers of about 6,000 tons trial displacement, to
have the highest practicable speed and great radius of action, and to carry the most powerful
ordnance suitable for vessels of their class. Estimated cost, exclusive of armor and armament,
$2,150,000 each.

4. Six sheathed and coppered cruisers of about 2,500 tons trial displacement, to have the highest
speed compatible with good cruising qualities, great radius of action, and to carry the most
powerful ordnance suited to vessels of their class. Estimated cost, exclusive of armament,
$1,141,800 each.

I join with the Secretary of the Navy in recommending that grades of admiral and vice-admiral
be temporarily revived, to be filled by officers who have specially distinguished themselves
in the war with Spain.

I earnestly urge upon Congress the importance of early legislation providing for the taking
of the Twelfth Census. This is necessary in view of the large amount of work which must be
performed in the preparation of the schedules preparatory to the enumeration of the population.

There were on the pension rolls on June 30, 1898, 993,714 names, an increase of nearly 18,000
over the number on the rolls on the same day of the preceding year. The amount appropriated
by the act of December 22, 1896, for the payment of pensions for the fiscal year of 1898 was
$140,000,000. Eight million seventy thousand eight hundred and seventy-two dollars and forty-six
cents was appropriated by the act of March 31, 1898, to cover deficiencies in army pensions,
and repayments in the sum of $12,020.33, making a total of $148,082,892.79 available for the
payment of pensions during the fiscal year 1898. The amount disbursed from that sum was $144,651,879.80,
leaving a balance of $3,431,012.99 unexpended on the 30th of June, 1898, which was covered
into the Treasury. There were 389 names added to the rolls during the year by special acts
passed at the second session of the Fifty-fifth Congress, making a total of 6,486 pensioners
by Congressional enactments since 1861.

The total receipts of the Patent Office during the past year were $1,253,948.44. The expenditures
were $1,081,633.79, leaving a surplus of $172,314.65.

The public lands disposed of by the Government during the year reached 8,453,896.92 acres,
an increase of 614,780.26 acres over the previous year. The total receipts from public lands
during the fiscal year amounted to $2,277,995.18, an increase of $190,063.90 over the preceding
year. The lands embraced in the eleven forest reservations which were suspended by the act
of June 4, 1897, again became subject to the operations of the proclamations of February 22,
1897, creating them, which added an estimated amount of 19,951,360 acres to the area embraced
in the reserves previously created. In addition thereto two new reserves were created during
the year--the Pine Mountain and Zaca Lake Reserve, in California, embracing 1,644,594 acres,
and the Prescott Reserve, in Arizona, embracing 10,240 acres--while the Pecos River Reserve,
in New Mexico, has been changed and enlarged to include 120,000 additional acres.

At the close of the year thirty forest reservations, not including those of the Afognak Forest
and the Fish-Culture Reserve, in Alaska, had been created by Executive proclamations under
section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, embracing an estimated area of 40,719,474 acres.

The Department of the Interior has inaugurated a forest system, made possible by the act of
July, 1898, for a graded force of officers in control of the reserves. This system has only
been in full operation since August, but good results have already been secured in many sections.
The reports received indicate that the system of patrol has not only prevented destructive
fires from gaining headway, but has diminished the number of fires.

The special attention of the Congress is called to that part of the report of the Secretary
of the Interior in relation to the Five Civilized Tribes. It is noteworthy that the general
condition of the Indians shows marked progress. But one outbreak of a serious character occurred
during the year, and that among the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota, which happily has been suppressed.

While it has not yet been practicable to enforce all the provisions of the act of June 28,
1898, "for the protection of the people of the Indian Territory, and for other purposes," it
is having a salutary effect upon the nations composing the five tribes. The Dawes Commission
reports that the most gratifying results and greater advance toward the attainment of the objects
of the Government have been secured in the past year than in any previous year. I can not too
strongly indorse the recommendation of the commission and of the Secretary of the Interior
for the necessity of providing for the education of the 30,000 white children resident in the
Indian Territory.

The Department of Agriculture has been active in the past year. Explorers have been sent to
many of the countries of the Eastern and Western hemispheres for seeds and plants that may
be useful to the United States, and with the further view of opening up markets for our surplus
products. The Forestry Division of the Department is giving special attention to the treeless
regions of our country and is introducing species specially adapted to semiarid regions. Forest
fires, which seriously interfere with production, especially in irrigated regions, are being
studied, that losses from this cause may be avoided. The Department is inquiring into the use
and abuse of water in many States of the West, and collating information regarding the laws
of the States, the decisions of the courts, and the customs of the people in this regard, so
that uniformity may be secured. Experiment stations are becoming more effective every year.
The annual appropriation of $720,000 by Congress is supplemented by $400,000 from the States.
Nation-wide experiments have been conducted to ascertain the suitableness as to soil and climate
and States for growing sugar beets. The number of sugar factories has been doubled in the past
two years, and the ability of the United States to produce its own sugar from this source has
been clearly demonstrated.

The Weather Bureau forecast and observation stations have been extended around the Caribbean
Sea, to give early warning of the approach of hurricanes from the south seas to our fleets
and merchant marine.

In the year 1900 will occur the centennial anniversary of the founding of the city of Washington
for the permanent capital of the Government of the United States by authority of an act of
Congress approved July 16, 1790. In May, 1800, the archives and general offices of the Federal
Government were removed to this place. On the 17th of November, 1800, the National Congress
met here for the first time and assumed exclusive control of the Federal district and city.
This interesting event assumes all the more significance when we recall the circumstances attending
the choosing of the site, the naming of the capital in honor of the Father of his Country,
and the interest taken by him in the adoption of plans for its future development on a magnificent
scale.

These original plans have been wrought out with a constant progress and a signal success even
beyond anything their framers could have foreseen. The people of the country are justly proud
of the distinctive beauty and government of the capital and of the rare instruments of science
and education which here find their natural home.

A movement lately inaugurated by the citizens to have the anniversary celebrated with fitting
ceremonies, including, perhaps, the establishment of a handsome permanent memorial to mark
so historical an occasion and to give it more than local recognition, has met with general
favor on the part of the public.

I recommend to the Congress the granting of an appropriation for this purpose and the appointment
of a committee from its respective bodies. It might also be advisable to authorize the President
to appoint a committee from the country at large, which, acting with the Congressional and
District of Columbia committees, can complete the plans for an appropriate national celebration.

The alien contract law is shown by experience to need some amendment; a measure providing better
protection for seamen is proposed; the rightful application of the eight-hour law for the benefit
of labor and of the principle of arbitration are suggested for consideration; and I commend
these subjects to the careful attention of the Congress.

The several departmental reports will be laid before you. They give in great detail the conduct
of the affairs of the Government during the past year and discuss many questions upon which
the Congress may feel called upon to act.

***

State of the Union Address William McKinley December 5, 1899

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

At the threshold of your deliberations you are called to mourn with your countrymen the death
of Vice-President Hobart, who passed from this life on the morning of November 21 last. His
great soul now rests in eternal peace. His private life was pure and elevated, while his public
career was ever distinguished by large capacity, stainless integrity, and exalted motives.
He has been removed from the high office which he honored and dignified, but his lofty character,
his devotion to duty, his honesty of purpose, and noble virtues remain with us as a priceless
legacy and example.

The Fifty-sixth Congress convenes in its first regular session with the country in a condition
of unusual prosperity, of universal good will among the people at home, and in relations of
peace and friendship with every government of the world. Our foreign commerce has shown great
increase in volume and value. The combined imports and exports for the year are the largest
ever shown by a single year in all our history. Our exports for 1899 alone exceeded by more
than a billion dollars our imports and exports combined in 1870. The imports per capita are
20 per cent less than in 1870, while the exports per capita are 58 per cent more than in 1870,
showing the enlarged capacity of the United States to satisfy the wants of its own increasing
population, as well as to contribute to those of the peoples of other nations.

Exports of agricultural products were $784,776,142. Of manufactured products we exported in
value $339,592,146, being larger than any previous year. It is a noteworthy fact that the only
years in all our history when the products of our manufactories sold abroad exceeded those
bought abroad were 1898 and 1899.

Government receipts from all sources for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1899, including $11,798,314,14,
part payment of the Central Pacific Railroad indebtedness, aggregated $610,982,004.35. Customs
receipts were $206,128,481.75, and those from internal revenue $273,437,161.51.

For the fiscal year the expenditures were $700,093,564.02, leaving a deficit of $89,111,559.67.

The Secretary of the Treasury estimates that the receipts for the current fiscal year will
aggregate $640,958,112, and upon the basis of present appropriations the expenditures will
aggregate $600,958,112, leaving a surplus of $40,000,000.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1899, the internal-revenue receipts were increased about
$100,000,000.

The present gratifying strength of the Treasury is shown by the fact that on December 1, 1899,
the available cash balance was $278,004,837.72, Of which $239,744,905.36 was in gold coin and
bullion. The conditions of confidence which prevail throughout the country have brought gold
into more general use and customs receipts are now almost entirely paid in that coin.

The strong position of the Treasury with respect to cash on hand and the favorable showing
made by the revenues have made it possible for the Secretary of the Treasury to take action
under the provisions of section 3694, Revised Statutes, relating to the sinking fund. Receipts
exceeded expenditures for the first five months of the current fiscal year by $13,413,389.91,
and, as mentioned above, the Secretary of the Treasury estimates that there will be a surplus
of approximately $40,000,000 at the end of the year. Under such conditions it was deemed advisable
and proper to resume compliance with the provisions of the sinking-fund law, which for eight
years has not been done because of deficiencies in the revenues. The Treasury Department therefore
offered to purchase during November $25,000,000 of the 5 per cent loan of 1904, or the 4 per
cent funded loan of 1907, at the current market price. The amount offered and purchased during
November was $18,408,600. The premium paid by the Government on such purchases was $2,263,521
and the net saving in interest was about $2,885,000. The success of this operation was sufficient
to induce the Government to continue the offer to purchase bonds to and including the 23d day
of December, instant, unless the remainder of the $25,000,000 called for should be presented
in the meantime for redemption.

Increased activity in industry, with its welcome attendant--a larger employment for labor at
higher wages--gives to the body of the people a larger power to absorb the circulating medium.
It is further true that year by year, with larger areas of land under cultivation, the increasing
volume of agricultural products, cotton, corn, and wheat, calls for a larger volume of money
supply. This is especially noticeable at the crop-harvesting and crop-moving period.

In its earlier history the National Banking Act seemed to prove a reasonable avenue through
which needful additions to the circulation could from time to time be made. Changing conditions
have apparently rendered it now inoperative to that end. The high margin in bond securities
required, resulting from large premiums which Government bonds command in the market, or the
tax on note issues, or both operating together, appear to be the influences which impair its
public utility.

The attention of Congress is respectfully invited to this important matter, with the view of
ascertaining whether or not such reasonable modifications can be made in the National Banking
Act as will render its service in the particulars here referred to more responsive to the people's
needs. I again urge that national banks be authorized to organize with a capital of $25,000.

I urgently recommend that to support the existing gold standard, and to maintain "the parity
in value of the coins of the two metals (gold and silver) and the equal power of every dollar
at all times in the market and in the payment of debts," the Secretary of the Treasury be given
additional power and charged with the duty to sell United States bonds and to employ such other
effective means as may be necessary to these ends. The authority should include the power to
sell bonds on long and short time, as conditions may require, and should provide for a rate
of interest lower than that fixed by the act of January 14, 1875. While there is now no commercial
fright which withdraws gold from the Government, but, on the contrary, such widespread confidence
that gold seeks the Treasury demanding paper money in exchange, yet the very situation points
to the present as the most fitting time to make adequate provision to insure the continuance
of the gold standard and of public confidence in the ability and purpose of the Government
to meet all its obligations in the money which the civilized world recognizes as the best.
The financial transactions of the Government are conducted upon a gold basis. We receive gold
when we sell United States bonds and use gold for their payment. We are maintaining the parity
of all the money issued or coined by authority of the Government. We are doing these things
with the means at hand. Happily at the present time we are not compelled to resort to loans
to supply gold. It has been done in the past, however, and may have to be done in the future.
It behooves us, therefore, to provide at once the best means to meet the emergency when it
arises, and the best means are those which are the most certain and economical. Those now authorized
have the virtue neither of directness nor economy. We have already eliminated one of the causes
of our financial plight and embarrassment during the years 1893, 1894, 1895, and 1896. Our
receipts now equal our expenditures; deficient revenues no longer create alarm Let us remove
the only remaining cause by conferring the full and necessary power on the Secretary of the
Treasury and impose upon him the duty to uphold the present gold standard and preserve the
coins of the two metals on a parity with each other, which is the repeatedly declared policy
of the United States.

The value of an American merchant marine to the extension of our commercial trade and the strengthening
of our power upon the sea invites the immediate action of the Congress. Our national development
will be one-sided and unsatisfactory so long as the remarkable growth of our inland industries
remains unaccompanied by progress on the seas. There is no lack of constitutional authority
for legislation which shall give to the country maritime strength commensurate with its industrial
achievements and with its rank among the nations of the earth,

The past year has recorded exceptional activity in our shipyards, and the promises of continual
prosperity in shipbuilding are abundant. Advanced legislation for the protection of our seamen
has been enacted. Our coast trade, under regulations wisely framed at the beginning of the
Government and since, shows results for the past fiscal year unequaled in our records or those
of any other power. We shall fail to realize our opportunities, however, if we complacently
regard only matters at home and blind ourselves to the necessity of securing our share in the
valuable carrying trade of the world.

Last year American vessels transported a smaller share of our exports and imports than during
any former year in all our history, and the measure of our dependence upon foreign shipping
was painfully manifested to our people. Without any choice of our own, but from necessity,
the Departments of the Government charged with military and naval operations in the East and
West Indies had to obtain from foreign flags merchant vessels essential for those operations.

The other great nations have not hesitated to adopt the required means to develop their shipping
as a factor in national defense and as one of the surest and speediest means of obtaining for
their producers a share in foreign markets. Like vigilance and effort on our part cannot fail
to improve our situation, which is regarded with humiliation at home and with surprise abroad.
Even the seeming sacrifices, which at the beginning may be involved, will be offset later by
more than equivalent gains.

The expense is as nothing compared to the advantage to be achieved. The reestablishment of
our merchant marine involves in a large measure our continued industrial progress and the extension
of our commercial triumphs. I am satisfied the judgment of the country favors the policy of
aid to our merchant marine, which will broaden our commerce and markets and upbuild our sea-carrying
capacity for the products of agriculture and manufacture; which, with the increase of our Navy,
mean more work and wages to our countrymen, as well as a safeguard to American interests in
every part of the world.

Combinations of capital organized into trusts to control the conditions of trade among our
citizens, to stifle competition, limit production, and determine the prices of products used
and consumed by the people, are justly provoking public discussion, and should early claim
the attention of the Congress.

The Industrial Commission, created by the act of the Congress of June 18, 1898, has been engaged
in extended hearings upon the disputed questions involved in the subject of combinations in
restraint of trade and competition. They have not yet completed their investigation of this
subject, and the conclusions and recommendations at which they may arrive are undetermined.

The subject is one giving rise to many divergent views as to the nature and variety or cause
and extent of the injuries to the public which may result from large combinations concentrating
more or less numerous enterprises and establishments, which previously to the formation of
the combination were carried on separately.

It is universally conceded that combinations which engross or control the market of any particular
kind of merchandise or commodity necessary to the general community, by suppressing natural
and ordinary competition, whereby prices are unduly enhanced to the general consumer, are obnoxious
not only to the common law but also to the public welfare. There must be a remedy for the evils
involved in such organizations. If the present law can be extended more certainly to control
or check these monopolies or trusts, it should be done without delay. Whatever power the Congress
possesses over this most important subject should be promptly ascertained and asserted. An
act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies was passed by
Congress on the 2d of July, 1890. The provisions of this statute are comprehensive and stringent.
It declares every contract or combination, in the form of a trust or otherwise, or conspiracy
in the restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, to
be unlawful. It denominates as a criminal every person who makes any such contract or engages
in any such combination or conspiracy, and provides a punishment by fine or imprisonment. It
invests the several circuit courts of the United States with jurisdiction to prevent and restrain
violations of the act, and makes it the duty of the several United States district attorneys,
under the direction of the Attorney General, to institute proceedings in equity to prevent
and restrain such violations. It further confers upon any person who shall be injured in his
business or property by any other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or
declared to be unlawful by the act, the power to sue therefore in any circuit court of the
United States without respect to the amount in controversy, and to recover threefold the damages
by him sustained and the costs of the suit, including reasonable attorney fees. It will be
perceived that the act is aimed at every kind of combination in the nature of a trust or monopoly
in restraint of interstate or international commerce.

The prosecution by the United States of offenses under the act of 1890 has been frequently
resorted to in the Federal courts, and notable efforts in the restraint of interstate commerce,
such as the Trans-Missouri Freight Association and the joint Traffic Association, have been
successfully opposed and suppressed.

President Cleveland in his annual message of December 7, 1896--more than six years subsequent
to the enactment of this law--after stating the evils of these trust combinations, says: Though
Congress has attempted to deal with this matter by legislation, the laws passed for that purpose
thus far have proved ineffective, not because of any lack of disposition or attempt to enforce
them, but simply because the laws themselves as interpreted by the courts do not reach the
difficulty. If the insufficiencies of existing laws can be remedied by further legislation,
it should be done. The fact must be recognized, however, that all Federal legislation on this
subject may fall short of its purpose because of inherent obstacles, and also because of the
complex character of our governmental system, which, while making the Federal authority supreme
within its sphere, has carefully limited that sphere by metes and bounds which cannot be transgressed.
The decision of our highest court on this precise question renders it quite doubtful whether
the evils of trusts and monopolies may be adequately treated through Federal action, unless
they seek directly and purposely to include in their objects transportation or intercourse
between States or between the United States and foreign countries. It does not follow, however,
that this is the limit of the remedy that may be applied. Even though it may be found that
Federal authority is not broad enough to fully reach the case, there can be no doubt of the
power of the several States to act effectively in the premises, and there should be no reason
to doubt their willingness to judiciously exercise such power. The State legislation to which
President Cleveland looked for relief from the evils of trusts has failed to accomplish fully
that object. This is probably due to a great extent to the fact that different States take
different views as to the proper way to discriminate between evil and injurious combinations
and those associations which are beneficial and necessary to the business prosperity of the
country. The great diversity of treatment in different States arising from this cause and the
intimate relations of all parts of the country to each other without regarding State lines
in the conduct of business have made the enforcement of State laws difficult.

It is apparent that uniformity of legislation upon this subject in the several States is much
to be desired. It is to be hoped that such uniformity founded in a wise and just discrimination
between what is injurious and what is useful and necessary in business operations may be obtained
and that means may be found for the Congress within the limitations of its constitutional power
so to supplement an effective code of State legislation as to make a complete system of laws
throughout the United States adequate to compel a general observance of the salutary rules
to which I have referred.

The whole question is so important and far-reaching that I am sure no part of it will be lightly
considered, but every phase of it will have the studied deliberation of the Congress, resulting
in wise and judicious action.

A review of our relations with foreign States is presented with such recommendations as are
deemed appropriate.

The long-pending boundary dispute between the Argentine Republic and Chile was settled in March
last by the award of an arbitral commission, on which the United States minister at Buenos
Ayres served as umpire.

Progress has been made toward the conclusion of a convention of extradition with the Argentine
Republic. Having been advised and consented to by the United States Senate and ratified by
Argentina, it only awaits the adjustment of some slight changes in the text before exchange.

In my last annual message I adverted to the claim of the Austro-Hungarian Government for indemnity
for the killing of certain Austrian and Hungarian subjects by the authorities of the State
of Pennsylvania, at Lattimer, while suppressing an unlawful tumult of miners, September 10,
1897. In view of the verdict of acquittal rendered by the court before which the sheriff and
his deputies were tried for murder, and following the established doctrine that the Government
may not be held accountable for injuries suffered by individuals at the hands of the public
authorities while acting in the line of duty in suppressing disturbance of the public peace,
this Government, after due consideration of the claim advanced by the Austro-Hungarian Government,
was constrained to decline liability to indemnify the sufferers.

It is gratifying to be able to announce that the Belgian Government has mitigated the restrictions
on the importation of cattle from the United States, to which I referred in my last annual message.

Having been invited by Belgium to participate in a congress, held at Brussels, to revise the
provisions of the general act Of July 2, 1890, for the repression of the African slave trade,
to which the United States was a signatory party, this Government preferred not to be represented
by a plenipotentiary, but reserved the right of accession to the result. Notable changes were
made, those especially concerning this country being in the line of the increased restriction
of the deleterious trade in spirituous liquors with the native tribes, which this Government
has from the outset urgently advocated. The amended general act will be laid before the Senate,
with a view to its advice and consent.

Early in the year the peace of Bolivia was disturbed by a successful insurrection. The United
States minister remained at his post, attending to the American interests in that quarter,
and using besides his good offices for the protection of the interests of British subjects
in the absence of their national representative. On the establishment of the new Government,
our minister was directed to enter into relations therewith.

General Pando was elected President of Bolivia on October 23.

Our representative has been instructed to use all permissible friendly endeavors to induce
the Government of Bolivia to amend its marriage laws so as to give legal status to the non-Catholic
and civil marriages of aliens within its jurisdiction, and strong hopes are entertained that
the Bolivian law in this regard will be brought, as was that of Peru some years ago, into harmony
with the general practice of modern States.

A convention of extradition with Brazil, signed May 14, 1897, has been ratified by the Brazilian
Legislature.

During the past summer two national ships of the United States have visited Brazilian ports
on a friendly mission and been cordially received. The voyage of the Wilmington up the Amazon
River gave rise to a passing misunderstanding, owing to confusion in obtaining permission to
visit the interior and make surveys in the general interest of navigation, but the incident
found a ready adjustment in harmony with the close relations of amity which this Government
has always sedulously sought to cultivate with the commonwealths of the Western Continent.

The claim growing out of the seizure of the American-owned newspaper "The Panama Star and Herald"
by the authorities of Colombia has been settled, after a controversy of several years, by an
agreement assessing at $30,000 the indemnity to be paid by the Colombian Government, in three
installments of $10,000 each.

The good will of Colombia toward our country has been testified anew by the cordial extension
of facilities to the Nicaraguan Canal Commission in their approaching investigation of the
Panama Canal and other projected routes across the Isthmus of Darien.

Toward the end of October an insurrectionary disturbance developed in the Colombian Republic.
This movement has thus far not attained any decisive result and is still in progress.

Discussion of the questions raised by the action of Denmark in imposing restrictions on the
importation of American meats has continued without substantial result in our favor.

The neighboring island Republic of Santo Domingo has lately been the scene of revolution, following
a long period of tranquility. It began with the killing of President Heureaux in July last,
and culminated in the relinquishment by the succeeding Vice-President of the reins of government
to the insurgents. The first act of the provisional government was the calling of a presidential
and constituent election. Juan Isidro Jimenez, having been elected President, was inaugurated
on the 14th of November. Relations have been entered into with the newly established Government.

The experimental association of Nicaragua, Honduras, and Salvador, tinder the title of the
Greater Republic of Central America, when apparently on the threshold of a complete federal
organization by the adoption of a constitution and the formation of a national legislature,
was disrupted in the last days of November, 1898, by the withdrawal of Salvador. Thereupon
Nicaragua and Honduras abandoned the joint compact, each resuming its former independent sovereignty.
This was followed by the reception of Minister Merry by the Republics of Nicaragua and Salvador,
while Minister Hunter in turn presented his credentials to the Government of Honduras, thus
reverting to the old distribution of the diplomatic agencies of the United States in Central
America for which our existing statutes provide. A Nicaraguan envoy has been accredited to
the United States.

An insurrectionary movement, under General Reyes, broke out at Bluefields in February last,
and for a time exercised actual control in the Mosquito Territory. The Detroit was promptly
sent thither for the protection of American interests. After a few weeks the Reyes government
renounced the conflict, giving place to the restored supremacy of Nicaragua. During the interregnum
certain public dues accruing under Nicaraguan law were collected from American merchants by
the authorities for the time being in effective administrative control. Upon the titular government
regaining power, a second payment of these dues was demanded. Controversy arose touching the
validity of the original payment of the debt to the de facto regent of the territory. An arrangement
was effected in April last by the United States minister and the foreign secretary of Nicaragua
whereby the amounts of the duplicate payments were deposited with the British consul pending
an adjustment of the matter by direct agreement between the Governments of the United States
and Nicaragua. The controversy is still unsettled.

The contract of the Maritime Canal Company of Nicaragua was declared forfeited by the Nicaraguan
Government on the Tenth of October, on the ground of nonfulfillment within the ten years' term
stipulated in the contract. The Maritime Canal Company has lodged a protest against this action,
alleging rights in the premises which appear worthy of consideration. This Government expects
that Nicaragua will afford the protestants a full and fair hearing upon the merits of the case.

The Nicaragua Canal Commission, which had been engaged upon the work of examination and survey
for a ship-canal route across Nicaragua, having completed its labors and made its report, was
dissolved on May P, and on June To a new commission, known as the Isthmian Canal Commission,
was organized under the terms of the act approved March 3, 1899, for the purpose of examining
the American Isthmus with a view to determining the most practicable and feasible route for
a ship canal across that Isthmus, with its probable cost, and other essential details.

This Commission, under the presidency of Rear-Admiral John G. Walker, U. S. N. (retired), entered
promptly upon the work intrusted to it, and is now carrying on examinations in Nicaragua along
the route of the Panama Canal, and in Darien from the Atlantic, in the neighborhood of the
Atrato River, to the Bay of Panama, on the Pacific side. Good progress has been made, but under
the law a comprehensive and complete investigation is called for, which will require much labor
and considerable time for its accomplishment. The work will be prosecuted as expeditiously
as possible and a report made at the earliest practicable date.

The great importance of this work cannot be too often or too strongly pressed upon the attention
of the Congress. In my message of a year ago I expressed my views of the necessity of a canal
which would link the two great oceans, to which I again invite your consideration. The reasons
then presented for early action are even stronger now.

A pleasing incident in the relations of this Government with that of Chile occurred in the
generous assistance given to the war ship Newark when in distress in Chilean waters. Not alone
in this way has the friendly disposition of Chile found expression. That country has acceded
to the convention for the establishment of the Bureau of the American Republics, in which organization
every independent State of the continent now shares.

The exchange of ratifications of a convention for the revival of the United States and Chilean
Claims Commission and for the adjudication of claims heretofore presented but not determined
during the life of the previous Commission has been delayed by reason of the necessity for
fresh action by the Chilean Senate upon the amendments attached to the ratification of the
treaty by the United States Senate. This formality is soon to be accomplished.

In view of disturbances in the populous provinces of northern China, where are many of our
citizens, and of the imminence of disorder near the capital and toward the seaboard, a guard
of marines was landed from the Boston and stationed during last winter in the legation compound
at Peking. With the restoration of order this protection was withdrawn.

The interests of our citizens in that vast Empire have not been neglected during the past year.
Adequate protection has been secured for our missionaries and some injuries to their property
have been redressed.

American capital has sought and found various opportunities of competing to carry out the internal
improvements which the Imperial Government is wisely encouraging, and to develop the natural
resources of the Empire. Our trade with China has continued to grow, and our commercial rights
under existing treaties have been everywhere maintained during the past year, as they will
be in the future.

The extension of the area open to international foreign settlement at Shanghai and the opening
of the ports of Nanking, Tsing-tao (Kiao chao), and Ta-lien-wan to foreign trade and settlement
will doubtless afford American enterprise additional facilities and new fields, of which it
will not be slow to take advantage.

I now renew this recommendation, as the importance of the subject has steadily grown since
it was first submitted to you, and no time should be lost in studying for ourselves the resources
of this great field for American trade and enterprise.

The death of President Faure in February last called forth those sincere expressions of sympathy
which befit the relations of two Republics as closely allied by unbroken historic ties as are
the United States and France.

Preparations for the representation of the industries, arts, and products of the United States
at the World's Exposition to be held in Paris next year continue on an elaborate and comprehensive
scale, thanks to the generous appropriation provided by Congress and to the friendly interest
the French Government has shown in furthering a typical exhibit of American progress.

There has been allotted to the United States a considerable addition of space, which, while
placing our country in the first rant among exhibitors, does not suffice to meet the increasingly
urgent demands of our manufacturers. The efforts of the Commissioner General are ably directed
toward a strictly representative display of all that most characteristically marks American
achievement in the inventive arts, and most adequately shows the excellence of our natural
productions.

In this age of keen rivalry among nations for mastery in commerce, the doctrine of evolution
and the rule of the survival of the fittest must be as inexorable in their operation as they
are positive in the results they bring about. The place won in the struggle by an industrial
people can only be held by unrelaxed endeavor and constant advance in achievement. The present
extraordinary impetus in every line of American exportation and the astounding increase in
the volume and value of our share in the world's markets may not be attributed to accidental
conditions.

The reasons are not far to seek. They lie deep in our national character and find expression
year by year in every branch of handicraft, in every new device whereby the materials we so
abundantly produce are subdued to the artisan's will and made to yield the largest, most practical,
and most beneficial return. The American exhibit at Paris should, and I am confident will,
be an open volume, whose lessons of skillfully directed endeavor, unfaltering energy, and consummate
performance may be read by all on every page, thus spreading abroad a clearer knowledge of
the worth of our productions and the justice of our claim to an important place in the marts
of the world. To accomplish this by judicious selection, by recognition of paramount merit
in whatever walk of trade or manufacture it may appear, and by orderly classification and attractive
installation is the task of our Commission.

The United States Government building is approaching completion, and no effort will be spared
to make it worthy, in beauty of architectural plan and in completeness of display, to represent
our nation. It has been suggested that a permanent building of similar or appropriate design
be erected on a convenient site, already given by the municipality, near the exposition grounds,
to serve in commemoration of the part taken by this country in this great enterprise, as an
American National Institute, for our countrymen resorting to Paris for study.

I am informed by our Commissioner-General that we shall have in the American sections at Paris
over 7,000 exhibitors, from every State ill our country, a number ten times as great as those
which were represented at Vienna in 1873, six times as many as those in Paris in 1878, and
four times as many as those who exhibited in Paris in 1889. This statement does not include
the exhibits from either Cuba, Puerto Rico, or Hawaii, for which arrangements have been made.

A number of important international congresses on special topics affecting public interests
are proposed to be held in Paris next summer in connection with the exposition. Effort will
be made to have the several technical branches of our administration efficiently represented
at those conferences, each in its special line, and to procure the largest possible concourse
of State representatives, particularly at the Congresses of Public Charity and Medicine.

Our relations with Germany continue to be most cordial. The increasing intimacy of direct association
has been marked during the year by the granting permission in April for the landing on our
shores of a cable from Borkum Emden, on the North Sea, by way of the Azores, and also by the
conclusion on September 2 of a Parcels Post Convention with the German Empire. In all that
promises closer relations of intercourse and commerce and a better understanding between two
races having so many traits in common, Germany can be assured of the most cordial cooperation
of this Government and people. We may be rivals in many material paths, but our rivalry should
be generous and open, ever aiming toward the attainment of larger results and the mutually
beneficial advancement of each in the line of its especial adaptabilities.

The several governments of the Empire seem reluctant to admit the natural excellence of our
food productions and to accept the evidence we constantly tender of the care with which their
purity is guarded by rigid inspection from the farm, through the slaughterhouse and the packing
establishments, to the port of shipment. Our system of control over exported food staples invites
examination from any quarter and challenges respect by its efficient thoroughness.

It is to be hoped that in time the two Governments will act in common accord toward the realization
of their common purpose to safeguard the public health and to insure the purity and wholesomeness
of all food products imported by either country from the other. Were the Congress to authorize
an invitation to Germany, in connection with the pending reciprocity negotiations, for the
constitution of a joint commission of scientific experts and practical men of affairs to conduct
a searching investigation of food production and exportation in both countries and report to
their respective legislatures for the adoption of such remedial measures as they might recommend
for either, the way might be opened for the desirable result indicated.

Efforts to obtain for American life insurance companies a full hearing as to their business
operations in Prussia have, after several years of patient representation, happily succeeded,
and one of the most important American companies has been granted a concession to continue
business in that Kingdom.

I am also glad to announce that the German insurance companies have been readmitted by the
superintendent of insurance to do business in the State of New York.

Subsequent to the exchange of our peace treaty with Spain, Germany acquired the Caroline Islands
by purchase, paying therefore $5,000,000. Assurances have been received from the German Government
that the rights of American missionaries and traders there will be considerately observed.

In my last annual message I referred to the pending negotiations with Great Britain in respect
to the Dominion of Canada. By means of an executive agreement, a joint High Commission had
been created for the purpose of adjusting all unsettled questions between the United States
and Canada, embracing twelve subjects, among which were the questions of the fur seals, the
fisheries of the coast and contiguous inland waters, the Alaskan boundary, the transit of merchandise
in bond, the alien labor laws, mining rights, reciprocity in trade, revision of the agreement
respecting naval vessels in the Great Lakes, a more complete marking of parts of the boundary,
provision for the conveyance of criminals, and for wrecking and salvage.

Much progress had been made by the Commission toward the adjustment of many of these questions,
when it became apparent that an irreconcilable difference of views was entertained respecting
the delimitation of the Alaskan, boundary. In the failure of an agreement as to the meaning
of Articles III and IV of the treaty of 1825 between Russia and Great Britain, which defined
the boundary between Alaska and Canada, the American Commissioners proposed that the subject
of the boundary be laid aside, and that the remaining questions of difference be proceeded
with, some of which were so far advanced as to assure the probability of a settlement. This
being declined by the British Commissioners, an adjournment was taken until the boundary should
be adjusted by the two Governments. The subject has been receiving the careful attention which
its importance demands, with the result that a modus vivendi for provisional demarcations in
the region about the head of Lynn Canal has, been agreed upon; and it is hoped that the negotiations
now in progress between the two Governments will end in an agreement for the establishment
and delimitation of a permanent boundary.

Apart from these questions growing out of our relationship with our northern neighbor, the
most friendly disposition and ready agreement have marked the discussion of numerous matters
arising in the vast and intimate intercourse of the United States with Great Britain.

This Government has maintained an attitude of neutrality in the unfortunate contest between
Great Britain and the Boer States of Africa. We have remained faithful to the precept of avoiding
entangling alliances as to affairs not of our direct concern. Had circumstances suggested that
the parties to the quarrel would have welcomed any kindly expression of the hope of the American
people that war might be averted, good offices would have been gladly tendered. The United
States representative at Pretoria was early instructed to see that all neutral American interests
be respected by the combatants. This has been an easy task in view of the positive declarations
of both British and Boer authorities that the personal and property rights of our citizens
should be observed.

Upon the withdrawal of the British agent from Pretoria the United States consul was authorized,
upon the request of the British Government and with the assent of the South African and Orange
Free State Governments, to exercise the customary good offices of a neutral for the care of
British interests. In the discharge of this function, I am happy to say that abundant opportunity
has been afforded to show the impartiality of this Government toward both the combatants.

For the fourth time in the present decade, question has arisen with the Government of Italy
in regard to the lynching of Italian subjects. The latest of these deplorable events occurred
at Tallulah, Louisiana, whereby five unfortunates of Italian origin were taken from jail and
hanged.

The authorities of the State and a representative of the Italian Embassy having separately
investigated the occurrence, with discrepant results, particularly as to the alleged citizenship
of the victims, and it not appearing that the State had been able to discover and punish the
violators of the law, an independent investigation has been set on foot, through the agency
of the Department of State, and is still in progress. The result will enable the Executive
to treat the question with the Government of Italy in a spirit of fairness and justice. A satisfactory
solution will doubtless be reached.

The recurrence of these distressing manifestations of blind mob fury directed at dependents
or natives of a foreign country suggests that the contingency has arisen for action by Congress
in the direction of conferring upon the Federal courts jurisdiction in this class of international
cases where the ultimate responsibility of the Federal Government may be involved. The suggestion
is not new. A bill to provide for the punishment of violations of treaty rights of aliens was
introduced in the Senate March 1, 1892, and reported favorably March 30. Having doubtless in
view the language of that part of Article III of the treaty of February 26, 1871, between the
United States and Italy, which stipulates that "The citizens of each of the high contracting
parties shall receive, in the States and Territories of the other, most constant protection
and security for their persons and property, and shall enjoy in this respect the same rights
and privileges as are or shall be granted to the natives, on their submitting themselves to
the conditions imposed upon the natives," the bill so introduced and reported provided that
any act committed in any State or Territory of the United States in violation of the rights
of a citizen or subject of a foreign country secured to such citizen or subject by treaty between
the United States and such foreign country and constituting a crime under the laws of the State
or Territory shall constitute a like crime against the United States and be cognizable in the
Federal courts. No action was taken by Congress in the matter.

I earnestly recommend that the subject be taken up anew and acted upon during the present session.
The necessity for some such provision abundantly appears. Precedent for constituting a Federal
jurisdiction in criminal cases where aliens are sufferers is rationally deducible from the
existing statute, which gives to the district and circuit courts of the United States jurisdiction
of civil suits brought by aliens where the amount involved exceeds a certain sum. If such jealous
solicitude be shown for alien rights in cases of merely civil and pecuniary import, how much
greater should be the public duty to take cognizance of matters affecting the lives and the
rights of aliens tinder the settled principles of international law no less than under treaty
stipulation, in cases of such transcendent wrong-doing as mob murder, especially when experience
has shown that local justice is too often helpless to punish the offenders.

After many years of endeavor on the part of this Government to that end the Italian Government
has consented to enter into negotiations for a naturalization convention, having for one of
its objects the regulation of the status of Italians (except those of an age for active military
service) who, having been naturalized in the United States, may revisit Italy. It is hoped
that with the mutually conciliatory spirit displayed a successful conclusion will be reached.

The treaty of commerce and navigation between the United States and Japan on November 22, 1894,
took effect in accordance with the terms of its XIXth Article on the 17th of July last, simultaneously
with the enforcement of like treaties with the other powers, except France, whose convention
did not go into operation until August 4, the United States being, however, granted up to that
date all the privileges and rights accorded to French citizens under the old French treaty.
By this notable conventional reform Japan's position as a fully independent sovereign power
is assured, control being gained of taxation, customs revenues, judicial administration, coasting
trade, and all other domestic functions of government, and foreign extra-territorial rights
being renounced.

Comprehensive codes of civil and criminal procedure according to western methods, public instruction,
patents and copyrights, municipal administration, including jurisdiction over the former foreign
settlements, customs tariffs and procedure, public health, and other administrative measures
have been proclaimed. The working of the new system has given rise to no material complaints
on the part of the American citizens or interests, a circumstance which attests the ripe consideration
with which the change has been prepared.

Valuable assistance was rendered by the Japanese authorities to the United States transport
ship Morgan City while stranded at Kobe. Permission has been granted to land and pasture army
horses at Japanese ports of call on the way to the Philippine Islands. These kindly evidences
of good will are highly appreciated.

The Japanese Government has shown a lively interest in the proposition of the Pacific Cable
Company to add to its projected cable lines to Hawaii, Guam, and the Philippines a branch connection
with the coast of Japan. It would be a gratifying consummation were the utility of the contemplated
scheme enhanced by bringing Japan and the United States into direct telegraphic relation.

Without repeating the observations of my special message of February 10, 1899, concerning the
necessity of a cable to Manila. I respectfully invite attention to it.

I recommend that, in case the Congress should not take measures to bring about this result
by direct action of the Government, the Postmaster General be authorized to invite competitive
bids for the establishment of a cable; the company making the best responsible bid to be awarded
the contract; the successful company to give ample bonds to insure the completion of the work
within a reasonable time.

The year has been marked by constant increase in the intimacy of our relations with Mexico
and in the magnitude of mutually advantageous interchanges. This Government has omitted no
opportunity to show its strong desire to develop and perpetuate the ties of cordiality now
so long happily unbroken.

Following the termination on January 20, 1899, by Mexico of the convention of extradition of
December 11, 1861, a new treaty more in accordance with the ascertained needs of both countries
was signed February 22, 1899, and exchanged in the City of Mexico on the 22d of April last.
Its operation thus far has been effective and satisfactory. A recent case has served to test
the application of its IVth Article, which provides that neither party shall be bound to deliver
up its own citizens, but that the executive authority of each shall have the power to deliver
them up if in its discretion it be deemed proper to do so.

The extradition of Mrs. Mattie Rich, a citizen of the United States, charged with homicide
committed in Mexico, was after mature consideration directed by me in the conviction that the
ends of justice would be thereby subserved. Similar action, on appropriate occasion, by the
Mexican Executive will not only tend to accomplish the desire of both Governments that grave
crimes go not unpunished, but also to repress lawlessness along the border of the two countries.
The new treaty stipulates that neither Government shall assume jurisdiction in the punishment
of crimes committed exclusively within the territory of the other. This will obviate in future
the embarrassing controversies which have heretofore arisen through Mexico's assertion of a
claim to try and punish an American citizen for an offense committed within the jurisdiction
of the United States.

The International Water Boundary Commission, organized by the convention of March 1, 1889,
for the adjustment of questions affecting the Rio Grande frontier, has not yet completed its
labors. A further extension of its term for one year, until December 24, 1899, was effected
by a convention signed December z, 1898, and exchanged and proclaimed in February last.

An invitation extended to the President of Mexico to visit Chicago in October, on the occasion
of laying the corner stone of the United States Government building in that city, was cordially
accepted by him, with the necessary consent of the Mexican Congress, but the illness of a member
of his family prevented his attendance. The Minister of Foreign Relations, however, came as
the personal representative of President Diaz, and in that high character was duly honored.

Claims growing out of the seizure of American sealing vessels in Bering Sea have been under
discussion with the Government of Russia for several years, with the recent happy result of
an agreement to submit them to the decision of a single arbitrator. By this act Russia affords
proof of her adherence to the beneficent principle of arbitration which her plenipotentiaries
conspicuously favored at The Hague Disarmament Conference when it was advocated by the representatives
of the United States.

A suggestion for a permanent exposition of our products and manufactures in Russia, although
not yet fully shaped, has been so cordially welcomed by the Imperial Government that it may
not inaptly take a fitting place in whatever legislation the Congress may adopt looking to
enlargement of our commercial opportunities abroad.

Important events have occurred in the Samoan Islands. The election, according to the laws and
customs of Samoa, of a successor to the late King, Malietoa Laupepa, developed a contest as
to the validity of the result, which issue, by the terms of the General Act, was to be decided
by the Chief justice. Upon his rendering a judgment in favor of Malietoa Tanu, the rival chief,
Mataafa, took up arms. The active intervention of American and British war ships became imperative
to restore order, at the cost of sanguinary encounters. In this emergency a joint commission
of representatives of the United States, Germany, and Great Britain was sent to Samoa to investigate
the situation and provide a temporary remedy. By its active efforts a peaceful solution was
reached for the time being, the kingship being abolished and a provisional government established.
Recommendations unanimously made by the commission for a permanent adjustment of the Samoan
question were taken under consideration by the three powers parties to the General Act. But
the more they were examined the more evident it became that a radical change was necessary
in the relations of the powers to Samoa.

The inconveniences and possible perils of the tripartite scheme of supervision and control
in the Samoan group by powers having little interest in common in that quarter beyond commercial
rivalry had been once more emphasized by the recent events. The suggested remedy of the joint
Commission, like the scheme it aimed to replace amounted to what has been styled a tridominium,
being the exercise of the functions of sovereignty by an unanimous agreement of three powers.
The situation had become far more intricate and embarrassing from every point of view than
it was when my predecessor, in 1894, summed up its perplexities and condemned the participation
in it of the United States.

The arrangement under which Samoa was administered had proved impracticable and unacceptable
to all the powers concerned. To withdraw from the agreement and abandon the islands to Germany
and Great Britain would not be compatible with our interests in the archipelago. To relinquish
our rights in the harbor of Pago Pago, the best anchorage in the Pacific, the occupancy of
which had been leased to the United States in 1878 by the first foreign treaty ever concluded
by Samoa, was not to be thought of either as regards the needs of our Navy or the interests
of our growing commerce with the East. We could not have considered any proposition for the
abrogation of the tripartite control which did not confirm us in all our rights and safeguard
all our national interests in the islands.

Our views commended themselves to the other powers. A satisfactory arrangement was concluded
between the Governments of Germany and of England, by virtue of which England retired from
Samoa in view of compensations in other directions, and both powers renounced in favor of the
United States all their rights and claims over and in respect to that portion of the group
lying to the east of the one hundred and seventy-first degree of west longitude, embracing
the islands of Tutuila, Ofoo, Olosenga, and Manua. I transmit to the Senate, for its constitutional
action thereon, a convention, which besides the provisions above mentioned also guarantees
us the same privileges and conditions in respect to commerce and commercial vessels in all
of the islands of Samoa as those possessed by Germany.

Claims have been preferred by white residents of Samoa on account of injuries alleged to have
been suffered through the acts of the treaty Governments in putting down the late disturbances.
A convention has been made between the three powers for the investigation and settlement of
these claims by a neutral arbitrator, to which the attention of the Senate will be invited.

My annual message of last year was necessarily devoted, in great part to a consideration of
the Spanish War and of the results it wrought and the conditions it imposed for the future.
I am gratified to announce that the treaty of peace has restored friendly relations between
the two powers. Effect has been given to its most important provisions. The evacuation of Puerto
Rico having already been accomplished on the XIVth of October, 1898, nothing remained necessary
there but to continue the provisional military control of the island until the Congress should
enact a suitable government for the ceded territory. Of the character and scope of the measures
to that end I shall treat in another part of this message.

The withdrawal of the authority of Spain from the island of Cuba was effected by the 1st of
January, so that the full re-establishment of peace found the relinquished territory held by
us in trust for the inhabitants, maintaining, under the direction of the Executive, such government
and control therein as should conserve public order, restore the productive conditions of peace
so long disturbed by the instability and disorder which prevailed for the greater part of the
preceding three decades, and build up that tranquil development of the domestic state whereby
alone can be realized the high purpose, as proclaimed in the joint resolution adopted by the
Congress on the 19th of April, 1898, by which the United States disclaimed any disposition
or intention to exercise sovereignty, jurisdiction, or control over Cuba, except for the pacification
thereof, and asserted its determination when that was accomplished to leave the government
and control of the island to its people. The pledge contained in this resolution is of the
highest honorable obligation and must be sacredly kept.

I believe that substantial progress has been made in this direction. All the administrative
measures adopted in Cuba have aimed to fit it for a regenerated existence by enforcing the
supremacy of law and justice; by placing wherever practicable the machinery of administration
in the hands of the inhabitants; by instituting needed sanitary reforms; by spreading education;
by fostering industry and trade; by inculcating public morality, and, in short, by taking every
rational step to aid the Cuban people to attain to that plane of self-conscious respect and
self-reliant unity which fits an enlightened community for self-government within its own sphere,
while enabling it to fulfill all outward obligation.

This nation has assumed before the world a grave responsibility for the future good government
of Cuba. We have accepted a trust the fulfillment of which calls for the sternest integrity
of purpose and the exercise of the highest wisdom. The new Cuba yet to arise from the ashes
of the past must needs be bound to us by ties of singular intimacy and strength if its enduring
welfare is to be assured. Whether those ties shall be organic or conventional, the destinies
of Cuba are in some rightful form and manner irrevocably linked with our own, but how and how
far is for the future to determine in the ripeness of events. Whatever be the outcome, we must
see to it that free Cuba be a reality, not a name, a perfect entity, not a hasty experiment
bearing within itself the elements of failure. Our mission, to accomplish which we took up
the wager of battle, is not to be fulfilled by turning adrift any loosely framed commonwealth
to face the vicissitudes which too often attend weaker States whose natural wealth and abundant
resources are offset by the incongruities of their political organization and the recurring
occasions for internal rivalries to sap their strength and dissipate their energies. The greatest
blessing which can come to Cuba is the restoration of her agricultural and industrial prosperity,
which will give employment to idle men and re-establish the pursuits of peace. This is her
chief and immediate need.

On the 19th of August last an order was made for the taking of the census in the island, to
be completed on the 30th of November. By the treaty of peace the Spanish people on the island
have until April 11, 1900, to elect whether they will remain citizens of Spain or become citizens
of Cuba. Until then it cannot be definitely ascertained who shall be entitled to participate
in the formation of the government of Cuba. By that time the results of the census will have
been tabulated and we shall proceed to provide for elections which will commit the municipal
governments of the island to the officers elected by the people. The experience thus acquired
will prove of great value in the formation of a representative convention of the people to
draft a constitution and establish a general system of independent government for the island.
In the meantime and so long as we exercise control over the island the products of Cuba should
have a market in the United States on as good terms and with as favorable rates of duty as
are given to the West India Islands under treaties of reciprocity which shall be made.

For the relief of the distressed in the island of Cuba the War Department has issued supplies
to destitute persons through the officers of the Army, which have amounted to 5,493,000 rations,
at a cost Of $1,417,554.07.

To promote the disarmament of the Cuban volunteer army, and in the interest of public peace
and the welfare of the people, the sum Of $75 was paid to each Cuban soldier borne upon the
authenticated rolls, on condition that he should deposit his arms with the authorities designated
by the United States. The sum thus disbursed aggregated $2,547,750, which was paid from the
emergency fund provided by the act of January 5, 1899, for that purpose.

Out of the Cuban island revenues during the six months ending June 30, 1899, $1,712,014.20
was expended for sanitation, $293,881.70 for charities and hospitals, and $88,944.03 for aid
to the destitute.

Following the exchange of ratifications of the treaty of peace the two Governments accredited
ministers to each other, Spain sending to Washington the Duke of Arcos, an eminent diplomatist,
previously stationed in Mexico, while the United States transferred to Madrid Hon. Bellamy
Storer, its minister at Brussels. This was followed by the respective appointment of consuls,
thereby fully resuming the relations interrupted by the war. In addition to its consular representation
in the United States, the Spanish Government has appointed consuls for Cuba, who have been
provisionally recognized during the military administration of the affairs of that island.

Judicial intercourse between the courts of Cuba and Puerto Rico and of Spain has been established,
as provided by the treaty of peace. The Cuban political prisoners in Spanish penal stations
have been and are being released and returned to their homes, in accordance with Article VI
of the treaty. Negotiations are about to be had for defining the conventional relations between
the two countries, which fell into abeyance by reason of the war. I trust that these will include
a favorable arrangement for commercial reciprocity under the terms of sections 3 and 4 of the
current tariff act. In these, as in all matters of international concern, no effort will be
spared to respond to the good disposition of Spain, and to cultivate in all practicable ways
the intimacy which should prevail between two nations whose past history has so often and in
so many ways been marked by sincere friendship and by community of interests.

I would recommend appropriate legislation in order to carry into execution Article VII of the
Treaty of Peace with Spain, by which the United States assured the payment of certain claims
for indemnity of its citizens against Spain.

The United States minister to Turkey continues, under instructions, to press for a money payment
in satisfaction of the just claims for injuries suffered by American citizens in the disorders
of several years past and for wrongs done to them by the Ottoman authorities. Some of these
claims are of many years' standing. This Government is hopeful of a general agreement in this
regard.

In the Turkish Empire the situation of our citizens remains unsatisfactory. Our efforts during
nearly forty years to bring about a convention of naturalization seem to be on the brink of
final failure through the announced policy of the Ottoman Porte to refuse recognition of the
alien status of native Turkish subjects naturalized abroad since 1867. Our statutes do not
allow this Government to admit any distinction between the treatment of native and naturalized
Americans abroad, so that ceaseless controversy arises in cases where persons owing in the
eye of international law a dual allegiance are prevented from entering Turkey or are expelled
after entrance. Our law in this regard contrasts with that of the European States. The British
act, for instance, does not claim effect for the naturalization of an alien in the event of
his return to his native country, unless the change be recognized by the law of that country
or stipulated by treaty between it and the naturalizing State.

The arbitrary treatment, in some instances, of American productions in Turkey has attracted
attention of late, notably in regard to our flour. Large shipments by the recently opened direct
steamship line to Turkish ports have been denied entrance on the score that, although of standard
composition and unquestioned purity, the flour was pernicious to health because of deficient
"elasticity" as indicated by antiquated and untrustworthy tests. Upon due protest by the American
minister, and it appearing that the act was a virtual discrimination against our product, the
shipments in question were admitted. In these, as in all instances, wherever occurring, when
American products may be subjected in a foreign country, upon specious pretexts, to discrimination
compared with the like products of another country, this Government will use its earnest efforts
to secure fair and equal treatment for its citizens and their goods. Failing this, it will
not hesitate to apply whatever corrective may be provided by the statutes.

The International Commission of Arbitration, appointed under the Anglo-Venezuelan treaty of
1897, rendered an award on October 3 last, whereby the boundary line between Venezuela and
British Guiana is determined, thus ending a controversy which has existed for the greater part
of the century. The award, as to which the arbitrators were unanimous, while not meeting the
extreme contention of either party, gives to Great Britain a large share of the interior territory
in dispute and to Venezuela the entire mouth of the Orinoco, including Barima Point and the
Caribbean littoral for some distance to the eastward. The decision appears to be equally satisfactory
to both parties.

Venezuela has once more undergone a revolution. The insurgents, under General Castro, after
a sanguinary engagement in which they suffered much loss, rallied in the mountainous interior
and advanced toward the capital. The bulk of the army having sided with the movement, President
Andrade quitted Caracas, where General Castro set up a provisional government with which our
minister and the representatives of other powers entered into diplomatic relations on the 20th
of November, 1899.

The fourth section of the Tariff Act approved July 24, 1897, appears to provide only for commercial
treaties which should be entered into by the President and also ratified by the Senate within
two years from its passage. Owing to delays inevitable in negotiations of this nature, none
of the treaties initiated under that section could be concluded in time for ratification by
the Senate prior to its adjournment on the 4th of March last. Some of the pending negotiations,
however, were near conclusion at that time, and the resulting conventions have since been signed
by the plenipotentiaries. Others, within both the third and fourth sections of the act, are
still under consideration. Acting under the constitutional power of the Executive in respect
to treaties, I have deemed it my duty, while observing the limitations of concession provided
by the fourth section, to bring to a conclusion all pending negotiations, and submit them to
the Senate for its advice and consent.

Conventions of reciprocity have been signed during the Congressional recess with Great Britain
for the respective colonies of British Guiana, Barbados, Bermuda, Jamaica, and Turks and Caicos
Islands, and with the Republic of Nicaragua.

Important reciprocal conventions have also been concluded with France and with the Argentine
Republic.

In my last annual message the progress noted in the work of the diplomatic and consular officers
in collecting information as to the industries and commerce of other countries, and in the
care and promptitude with which their reports are printed and distributed, has continued during
the past year, with increasingly valuable results in suggesting new sources of demand for American
products and in pointing out the obstacles still to be overcome in facilitating the remarkable
expansion of our foreign trade. It will doubtless be gratifying to Congress to learn that the
various agencies of the Department of State are co-operating in these endeavors with a zeal
and effectiveness which are not only receiving the cordial recognition of our business interests,
but are exciting the emulation of other Governments. In any rearrangement of the great and
complicated work of obtaining official data of an economic character which Congress may undertake
it is most important, in my judgment, that the results already secured by the efforts of the
Department of State should be carefully considered with a view to a judicious development and
increased utility to our export trade.

The interest taken by the various States forming the International Union of American Republics
in the work of its organic bureau is evidenced by the fact that for the first time since its
creation in 1890 all the Republics of South and Central America are now represented in it.

The unanimous recommendation of the International American Conference, providing for the International
Union of American Republics, stated that it should continue in force during a term of ten years
from the date of its organization, and no country becoming a member of the union should cease
to be a member until the end of said period of ten years, and unless twelve months before the
expiration of said period a majority of the members of the union had given to the Secretary
of State of the United States official notice of their wish to terminate the union at the end
of its first period, that the union should continue to be maintained for another period of
ten years, and thereafter, under the same conditions, for successive periods of ten years each.

The period for notification expired on July 14, 1899, without any of the members having given
the necessary notice of withdrawal. Its maintenance is therefore assured for the next ten years.
In view of this fact and of the numerous questions of general interest and common benefit to
all of the Republics of America, some of which were considered by the first International American
Conference, but not finally settled, and others which have since then grown to importance,
it would seem expedient that the various Republics constituting the Union should be invited
to hold at an early date another conference in the capital of one of the countries other than
the United States, which has already enjoyed this honor.

The purely international character of the work being done by the bureau and the appreciation
of its value are further emphasized by the active co-operation which the various Governments
of the Latin. American Republics and their diplomatic representatives in this capital are now
exhibiting and the zealous endeavors they are making to extend its field of usefulness, to
promote through it commercial intercourse, and strengthen the bonds of amity and confidence
between its various members and the nations of this continent.

The act to encourage the holding of the Pan-American Exposition on the Niagara frontier, within
the county of Erie or Niagara, in the State of New York, in the year 1901, was approved on
March 3, 1899.

This exposition, which will be held in the city of Buffalo, in the near vicinity of the great
Niagara cataract, and within a day's journey of which reside 40, 000, 000 Of our people, will
be confined entirely to the Western Hemisphere. Satisfactory assurances have already been given
by the diplomatic representatives of Great Britain, Mexico, the Central and South American
Republics, and most of the States of the United States that these countries and States will
make an unique, interesting, and instructive exhibit, peculiarly illustrative of their material
progress during the century which is about to close.

The law provides an appropriation Of $500,000 for the purpose of making an exhibit at the exposition
by the Government of the United States from its Executive Departments and from the Smithsonian
Institution and National Museum, the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, the Department
of Labor, and the Bureau of the American Republics. To secure a complete and harmonious arrangement
of this Government exhibit a board of management has already been created, and charged with
the selection, purchase, preparation, transportation, arrangement, and safe-keeping of the
articles and materials to be exhibited. This board has been organized and has already entered
upon the performance of its duties, as provided for by the law.

I have every reason to hope and believe that this exposition will tend more firmly to cement
the cordial relations between the nations on this continent.

In accordance with an act of Congress approved December 21, 1898, and under the auspices of
the Philadelphia Commercial Museum, a most interesting and valuable exposition of products
and manufactures especially adapted to export trade was held in Philadelphia from the 14th
of September to the 1st of December, 1899. The representative character of the exhibits and
the widespread interest manifested in the special objects of the undertaking afford renewed
encouragement to those who look confidently to the steady growth of our enlarged exportation
of manufactured goods, which has been the most remarkable fact in the economic development
of the United States in recent years. A feature of this exposition which is likely to become
of permanent and increasing utility to our industries is the collection of samples of merchandise
produced in various countries with special reference to particular markets, providing practical
object lessons to United States manufacturers as to qualities, styles, and prices of goods
such as meet the special demands of consumers and may be exported with advantage.

In connection with the exposition an International Commercial Congress was held, upon the invitation
of the Philadelphia Commercial Museum, transmitted by the Department of State to the various
foreign Governments, for an exchange of information and opinions with the view to the promotion
of international trade. This invitation met with general and cordial acceptance, and the Congress,
which began its sessions at the exposition on the 13th of October proved to be of great practical
importance, from the fact that it developed a general recognition of the interdependence of
nations in trade and a most gratifying spirit of accommodation with reference to the gradual
removal of existing impediments to reciprocal relations, without injury to the industrial interests
of either party.

In response to the invitation of His Majesty, the Emperor of Russia, delegates from twenty-six
countries were assembled at The Hague on the 18th of May, as members of a conference in the
interest of peace. The commission from the United States consisted of the Hon. Andrew D. White,
the Hon. Seth Low, the Hon. Stanford Newel, Captain Alfred T. Mahan, of the United States Navy,
Captain William Crozier, of the United States Army, and the Hon. Frederick W. Holls, secretary.
The occasion seemed to be opportune for the serious consideration of a plan for the pacific
adjustment of international differences, a subject in which the American people have been deeply
interested for many years, and a definite project for a permanent international tribunal was
included in the instructions to the delegates of the United States.

The final act of the conference includes conventions upon the amelioration of the laws and
customs of war on land, the adaptation to maritime warfare of the principles of the Geneva
Convention of 1864, and the extension of judicial methods to international cases. The Convention
for the Pacific Settlement of International Conflicts embodies the leading features of the
American plan, with such modifications as were rendered necessary by the great diversity of
views and interests represented by the delegates. The four titles of the convention provide
for the maintenance of general peace, the exercise of good offices and mediation, the formation
of commissions of inquiry, and international arbitration.

The mediation provided for by the convention is purely voluntary and advisory, and is intended
to avoid any invasion or limitation of the sovereign rights of the adhering States. The commissions
of inquiry proposed consists of delegations to be specifically constituted for particular purposes
by means of conventions between the contesting parties, having for their object the clear understanding
of international differences before resorting to the use of force. The provision for arbitration
contemplates the formation of a permanent tribunal before which disputed cases may be brought
for settlement by the mutual consent of the litigants in each separate case. The advantages
of such a permanent tribunal over impromptu commissions of arbitration are conceived to be
the actual existence of a competent court, prepared to administer justice, the greater economy
resulting from a well-devised system, and the accumulated judicial skill and experience which
such a tribunal would soon possess.

While earnestly promoting the idea of establishing a permanent international tribunal, the
delegation of the United States was not unmindful of the inconveniences which might arise from
an obtrusive exercise of mediation, and in signing the convention carefully guarded the historic
position of the United States by the following declaration: Nothing contained in this convention
shall be so construed as to require the United States of America to depart from its traditional
policy of not intruding upon, interfering with, or entangling itself in the political questions
or policy or internal administration of any foreign state; nor shall anything contained in
the said convention be construed to imply a relinquishment by the United. States of America
of its traditional attitude toward purely American questions. Thus interpreted, the Convention
for the Pacific Settlement of International Conflicts may be regarded as realizing the earnest
desire of great numbers of American citizens, whose deep sense of justice, expressed in numerous
resolutions and memorials, has urged them to labor for this noble achievement. The general
character of this convention, already signed by the delegates of more than twenty sovereign
States, further commends it to the favorable action of the Senate of the United States, whose
ratification it still awaits.

Since my last annual message, and in obedience to the acts of the Congress of April 22 and
26, 1898, the remaining volunteer force enlisted for the Spanish War, consisting Of 34,834
regulars and 110,202 volunteers, with over 5,000 volunteer officers, has been discharged from
the military service. Of the volunteers, 667 officers and 14,831 men were serving in the Philippines,
and 1,650 of the regulars, who were entitled to be mustered out after the ratification of the
treaty of peace. They voluntarily remained at the front until their places could be filled
by new troops. They were returned home in the order in which they went to Manila, and are now
all of them out of the service and in the ranks of citizenship. I recommend that the Congress
provide a special medal of honor for the volunteers, regulars, sailors, and marines on duty
in the Philippines who voluntarily remained in the service after their terms of enlistment
had expired.

By the act of March 2, 1899, Congress gave authority to increase the Regular Army to a maximum
not exceeding 65,000 enlisted men, and to enlist a force of 5,000 volunteers, to be recruited
from the country at large. By virtue of this authority the Regular Army has been increased
to the number of 61,999 enlisted men and 2,248 officers, and new volunteer regiments have been
organized aggregating 33,050 enlisted men and 1,524 officers. Two of these volunteer regiments
are made up of colored men, with colored line officers. The new troops to take the places of
those returning from the Philippines have been transported to Manila to the number of 581 officers
and 26,322 enlisted men of the Regular Army and 594 officers and 15,388 enlisted men of the
new volunteer force, while 504 officers and 14, 119 men of the volunteer force are on the ocean
en route to Manila.

The force now in Manila consists Of 905 officers and 30,578 regulars, and 594 officers and
15,388 of the volunteers, making an aggregate of 1,499 officers and 45,966 men. When the troops
now under orders shall reach Manila the force in the archipelago will comprise 2,051 officers
and 63,483 men. The muster out of the great volunteer army organized for the Spanish War and
the creation of a new army, the transportation from Manila to San Francisco of those entitled
to discharge and the transportation of the new troops to take their places have been a work
of great magnitude well and ably done, for which too much credit cannot be given the War Department.

During the past year we have reduced our force in Cuba and Puerto Rico, In Cuba we now have
334 officers and 10,796 enlisted men; In Puerto Rico, 87 officers and 2,855 enlisted men and
a battalion of 400 men composed of native Puerto Ricans; while stationed throughout the United
States are 910 officers and 17,317 men, and in Hawaii 12 officers and 453 enlisted men.

The operations of the Army are fully presented in the report of the Secretary of War. I cannot
withhold from officers and men the highest commendation for their soldierly conduct in trying
situations, their willing sacrifices for their country, and the integrity and ability with
which they have performed unusual and difficult duties in our island possessions.

In the organization of the volunteer regiments authorized by the act of March 2, 1899, it was
found that no provision had been made for chaplains. This omission was doubtless from inadvertence.
I recommend the early authorization for the appointment of one chaplain for each of said regiments.
These regiments are now in the Philippines, and it is important that immediate action be had.

In restoring peaceful conditions, orderly rule, and civic progress in Cuba, Puerto Rico, and,
so far as practicable, in the Philippines, the rehabilitation of the postal service has been
an essential and important part of the work. It became necessary to provide mail facilities
both for our forces of occupation and for the native population. To meet this requirement has
involved a substantial reconstruction. The existing systems were so fragmentary, defective,
and inadequate that a new and comprehensive organization had to be created. American trained
officials have been assigned to the directing and executive positions, while natives have been
chiefly employed in making up the body of the force. In working out this plan the merit rule
has been rigorously and faithfully applied.

The appointment of Director-General of Posts of Cuba was given to an expert who had been Chief
Post-Office Inspector and Assistant Postmaster-General, and who united large experience with
administrative capacity. For the postmastership at Havana the range of skilled and available
men was scanned, and the choice fell upon one who had been twenty years in the service as deputy
postmaster and postmaster of a large city. This principle governed and determined the selection
of the American officials sent not only to Cuba, but to Puerto Rico and the Philippines, and
they were instructed to apply it so far as practicable in the employment of the natives as
minor postmasters and clerks. The postal system in Cuba, though remaining under the general
guidance of the Postmaster-General, was made essentially independent. It was felt that it should
not be a burden upon the postal service of the United States, and provision was made that any
deficit in the postal revenue should be a charge upon the general revenues of the island.

Though Puerto Rico and the Philippines hold a different relation to the United States, yet,
for convenience of administration, the same principle of an autonomous system has been extended
to them. The development of the service in all of the islands has been rapid and successful.
It has moved forward on American lines, with free delivery, money order, and registry systems,
and has given the people mail facilities far greater and more reliable than any they have ever
before enjoyed. It is thus not only a vital agency of industrial, social, and business progress,
but an important influence in diffusing a just understanding of the true spirit and character
of American administration.

The domestic postal service continues to grow with extraordinary rapidity. The expenditures
and the revenues will each exceed $100,000,000 during the current year. Fortunately, since
the revival of prosperous times the revenues have grown much faster than the expenditures,
and there is every indication that a short period will witness the obliteration of the annual
deficit. In this connection the report of the Postmaster-General embodies a statement of some
evils which have grown up outside of the contemplation of law in the treatment of some classes
of mail matter which wrongly exercise the privilege of the pound rate, and shows that if this
matter had been properly classified and had paid the rate which it should have paid, instead
of a postal deficit for the last fiscal year of $6,610,000, there would have been on one basis
a surplus of $17,637,570, and on another Of $5,733,836. The reform thus suggested, in the opinion
of the Postmaster-General, would not only put the postal service at once on a self-sustaining
basis, but would permit great and valuable improvements, and I commend the subject to the consideration
of the Congress.

The Navy has maintained the spirit and high efficiency which have always characterized that
service, and has lost none of the gallantry in heroic action which has signalized its brilliant
and glorious past. The Nation has equal pride in its early and later achievements. Its habitual
readiness for every emergency has won the confidence and admiration of the country. The people
are interested in the continued preparation and prestige of the Navy and will justify liberal
appropriations for its maintenance and improvement. The officers have shown peculiar adaptation
for the performance of new and delicate duties which our recent war has imposed.

It cannot be doubted that Congress will at once make necessary provision for the armor plate
for the vessels now under contract and building. Its attention is respectfully called to the
report of the Secretary of the Navy, in which the subject is fully presented. I unite in his
recommendation that the Congress enact such special legislation as may be necessary to enable
the Department to make contracts early in the coming year for armor of the best quality that
can be obtained in this country for the Maine, Ohio, and Missouri, and that the provision of
the act of March 3, 1899, limiting the price of armor to $300 per ton be removed.

In the matter of naval construction Italy and Japan, of the great powers, laid down less tonnage
in the year 1899 than this country, and Italy alone has less tonnage under construction. I
heartily concur in the recommendations for the increase of the Navy, as suggested by the Secretary.

Our future progress and prosperity depend upon our ability to equal, if not surpass, other
nations in the enlargement and advance of science, industry, and commerce. To invention we
must turn as one of the most powerful aids to the accomplishment of such a result. The attention
of the Congress is directed to the report of the Commissioner of Patents, in which will be
found valuable suggestions and recommendations.

On the 30th of June, 1899, the pension roll of the United States numbered 991,519. These include
the pensioners of the Army and Navy in all our wars. The number added to the rolls during the
year was 40,991. The number dropped by reason of death, remarriage, minors by legal limitation,
failure to claim within three years, and other causes, was 43, 186, and the number of claims
disallowed was 107,919. During the year 89,054 pension certificates were issued, of which 37,077
were for new or original pensions. The amount disbursed for army and navy pensions during the
year was $138,355,052.95, which was $1,651,461.61 less than the sum of the appropriations.

The Grand Army of the Republic at its recent national encampment held in Philadelphia has brought
to my attention and to that of the Congress the wisdom and justice of a modification of the
third section of the act of June 27, 1890, which provides pensions for the widows of officers
and enlisted men who served ninety days or more during the War of the Rebellion and were honorably
discharged, provided that such widows are without other means of sup, port than their daily
labor and were married to the soldier, sailor, or marine on account of whose service they claim
pension prior to the date of the act.

The present holding of the Department is that if the widow's income aside from her daily labor
does not exceed in amount what her pension would be, to wit, $96 per annum, she would be deemed
to be without other means of support than her daily labor, and would be entitled to a pension
under this act; while if the widow's income independent of the amount received by her as the
result of her daily labor exceeds $96, she would not be pensionable under the act. I am advised
by the Commissioner of Pensions that the amount of the income allowed before title to pension
would be barred has varied widely under different administrations of the Pension Office, as
well as during different periods of the same administration, and has been the cause of just
complaint and criticism.

With the approval of the Secretary of the Interior the Commissioner of Pensions recommends
that, in order to make the practice at all times uniform and to do justice to the dependent
widow, the amount of income allowed independent of the proceeds of her daily labor should be
not less than $250 per annum, and he urges that the Congress shall so amend the act as to permit
the Pension Office to grant pensionable status to widows under the terms of the third section
of the act of June 27, 1890, whose income aside from the proceeds of daily labor is not in
excess of $250 per annum. I believe this to be a simple act of justice and heartily recommend it.

The Dawes Commission reports that gratifying progress has been made in its work during the
preceding year. The field-work of enrollment of four of the nations has been completed. I recommend
that Congress at an early day make liberal appropriation for educational purposes in the Indian
Territory.

In accordance with the act of Congress approved March 3, 1899. the preliminary work in connection
with the Twelfth Census is now fully under way. The officers required for the proper administration
of the duties imposed have been selected. The provision for securing a proper enumeration of
the population, as well as to secure evidence of the industrial growth of the Nation, is broader
and more comprehensive than any similar legislation in the past. The Director advises that
every needful effort is being made to push this great work to completion in the time limited
by the statute. It is believed that the Twelfth Census will emphasize our remarkable advance
in all that pertains to national progress. The agreement secures to the Government the principal
and interest of said bonds, amounting to $58,812,715.48. There has been paid thereon $11,762,543.12,
which has been covered into the Treasury, and the remainder, payable within ten years, with
interest at the rate Of 3 per cent per annum, payable semiannually, is secured by the deposit
of an equal amount of first-mortgage bonds of the Pacific Railway companies. The amounts paid
and secured to be paid to the Government on account of the Pacific Railroad subsidy claims
are: Union Pacific, cash - $58,448,223.75

Kansas Pacific, cash - 6,303,000.00

Central and Western Pacific, cash - 11,798,314.14

Notes, secured - 47,050,172.36

Kansas Pacific--dividends for deficiency due United States, cash - 821,897.70 -

***

State of the Union Address William McKinley December 3, 1900

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

At the outgoing of the old and the incoming of the new century you begin the last session of
the Fifty-sixth Congress with evidences on every hand of individual and national prosperity
and with proof of the growing strength and increasing power for good of Republican institutions.
Your countrymen will join with you in felicitation that American liberty is more firmly established
than ever before, and that love for it and the determination to preserve it are more universal
than at any former period of our history.

The Republic was never so strong, because never so strongly entrenched in the hearts of the
people as now. The Constitution, with few amendments, exists as it left the hands of its authors.
The additions which have been made to it proclaim larger freedom and more extended citizenship.
Popular government has demonstrated in its one hundred and twenty-four years of trial here
its stability and security, and its efficiency as the best instrument of national development
and the best safeguard to human rights.

When the Sixth Congress assembled in November, 1800, the population of the United States was
5,308,483. It is now 76,304,799. Then we had sixteen States. Now we have forty-five. Then our
territory consisted Of 909,050 square miles. It is now 3,846,595 square miles. Education, religion,
and morality have kept pace with our advancement in other directions, and while extending its
power the Government has adhered to its foundation principles and abated none of them in dealing
with our new peoples and possessions. A nation so preserved and blessed gives reverent thanks
to God and invokes His guidance and the continuance of His care and favor.

In our foreign intercourse the dominant question has been the treatment of the Chinese problem.
Apart from this our relations with the powers have been happy.

The recent troubles in China spring from the antiforeign agitation which for the past three
years has gained strength in the northern provinces. Their origin lies deep in the character
of the Chinese races and in the traditions of their Government. The Taiping rebellion and the
opening of Chinese ports to foreign trade and settlement disturbed alike the homogeneity and
the seclusion of China.

Meanwhile foreign activity made itself felt in all quarters, not alone on the coast, but along
the great river arteries and in the remoter districts, carrying new ideas and introducing new
associations among a primitive people which had pursued for centuries a national policy of
isolation.

The telegraph and the railway spreading over their land, the steamers plying on their waterways,
the merchant and the missionary penetrating year by year farther to the interior, became to
the Chinese mind types of an alien invasion, changing the course of their national life and
fraught with vague forebodings of disaster to their beliefs and their self-control.

For several years before the present troubles all the resources of foreign diplomacy, backed
by moral demonstrations of the physical force of fleets and arms, have been needed to secure
due respect for the treaty rights of foreigners and to obtain satisfaction from the responsible
authorities for the sporadic outrages upon the persons and property of unoffending sojourners,
which from time to time occurred at widely separated points in the northern provinces, as in
the case of the outbreaks in Sze-chuen and Shan-tung.

Posting of antiforeign placards became a daily occurrence, which the repeated reprobation of
the Imperial power failed to check or punish. These inflammatory appeals to the ignorance and
superstition of the masses, mendacious and absurd in their accusations and deeply hostile in
their spirit, could not but work cumulative harm. They aimed at no particular class of foreigners;
they were impartial in attacking everything foreign.

An outbreak in Shan-tung, in which German missionaries were slain, was the too natural result
of these malevolent teachings.

The posting of seditious placards, exhorting to the utter destruction of foreigners and of
every foreign thing, continued unrebuked. Hostile demonstrations toward the stranger gained
strength by organization.

The sect, commonly styled the Boxers, developed greatly in the provinces north of the Yang-Tse,
and with the collusion of many notable officials, including some in the immediate councils
of the Throne itself, became alarmingly aggressive. No foreigner's life, outside of the protected
treaty ports, was safe. No foreign interest was secure from spoliation.

The diplomatic representatives of the powers in Peking strove in vain to check this movement.
Protest was followed by demand and demand by renewed protest, to be met with perfunctory edicts
from the Palace and evasive and futile assurances from the Tsung-li Yamen. The circle of the
Boxer influence narrowed about Peking, and while nominally stigmatized as seditious, it was
felt that its spirit pervaded the capital itself, that the Imperial forces were imbued with
its doctrines, and that the immediate counselors of the Empress Dowager were in full sympathy
with the antiforeign movement.

The increasing gravity of the conditions in China and the imminence of peril to our own diversified
interests in the Empire, as well as to those of all the other treaty governments, were soon
appreciated by this Government, causing it profound solicitude. The United States from the
earliest days of foreign intercourse with China had followed a policy of peace, omitting no
occasions to testify good will, to further the extension of lawful trade, to respect the sovereignty
of its Government, and to insure by all legitimate and kindly but earnest means the fullest
measure of protection for the lives and property of our law-abiding citizens and for the exercise
of their beneficent callings among the Chinese people.

Mindful of this, it was felt to be appropriate that our purposes should be pronounced in favor
of such course as would hasten united action of the powers at Peking to promote the administrative
reforms so greatly needed for strengthening the Imperial Government and maintaining the integrity
of China, in which we believed the whole western world to be alike concerned. To these ends
I caused to be addressed to the several powers occupying territory and maintaining spheres
of influence in China the circular proposals of 1899, inviting from them declarations of their
intentions and views as to the desirability of the adoption of measures insuring the benefits
of equality of treatment of all foreign trade throughout China.

With gratifying unanimity the responses coincided in this common policy, enabling me to see
in the successful termination of these negotiations proof of the friendly spirit which animates
the various powers interested in the untrammeled development of commerce and industry in the
Chinese Empire as a source of vast benefit to the whole commercial world.

In this conclusion, which I had the gratification to announce as a completed engagement to
the interested powers on March 20, 1900, I hopefully discerned a potential factor for the abatement
of the distrust of foreign purposes which for a year past had appeared to inspire the policy
of the Imperial Government, and for the effective exertion by it of power and authority to
quell the critical antiforeign movement in the northern provinces most immediately influenced
by the Manchu sentiment.

Seeking to testify confidence in the willingness and ability of the Imperial administration
to redress the wrongs and prevent the evils we suffered and feared, the marine guard, which
had been sent to Peking in the autumn of 1899 for the protection of the legation, was withdrawn
at the earliest practicable moment, and all pending questions were remitted, as far as we were
concerned, to the ordinary resorts of diplomatic intercourse.

The Chinese Government proved, however, unable to check the rising strength of the Boxers and
appeared to be a prey to internal dissensions. In the unequal contest the antiforeign influences
soon gained the ascendancy under the leadership of Prince Tuan. Organized armies of Boxers,
with which the Imperial forces affiliated, held the country between Peking and the coast, penetrated
into Manchuria up to the Russian borders, and through their emissaries threatened a like rising
throughout northern China.

Attacks upon foreigners, destruction of their property, and slaughter of native converts were
reported from all sides. The Tsung-li Yamen, already permeated with hostile sympathies, could
make no effective response to the appeals of the legations. At this critical juncture, in the
early spring of this year, a proposal was made by the other powers that a combined fleet should
be assembled in Chinese waters as a moral demonstration, under cover of which to exact of the
Chinese Government respect for foreign treaty rights and the suppression of the Boxers.

The United States, while not participating in the joint demonstration, promptly sent from the
Philippines all ships that could be spared for service on the Chinese coast. A small force
of marines was landed at Taku and sent to Peking for the protection of the American legation.
Other powers took similar action, until some four hundred men were assembled in the capital
as legation guards.

Still the peril increased. The legations reported the development of the seditious movement
in Peking and the need of increased provision for defense against it. While preparations were
in progress for a larger expedition, to strengthen the legation guards and keep the railway
open, an attempt of the foreign ships to make a landing at Taku was met by a fire from the
Chinese forts. The forts were thereupon shelled by the foreign vessels, the American admiral
taking no part in the attack, on the ground that we were not at war with China and that a hostile
demonstration might consolidate the antiforeign elements and strengthen the Boxers to oppose
the relieving column.

Two days later the Taku forts were captured after a sanguinary conflict. Severance of communication
with Peking followed, and a combined force of additional guards, which was advancing to Peking
by the Pei-Ho, was checked at Langfang. The isolation of the legations was complete.

The siege and the relief of the legations has passed into undying history. In all the stirring
chapter which records the heroism of the devoted band, clinging to hope in the face of despair,
and the undaunted spirit that led their relievers through battle and suffering to the goal,
it is a memory of which my countrymen may be justly proud that the honor of our flag was maintained
alike in the siege and the rescue, and that stout American hearts have again set high, in fervent
emulation with true men of other race and language, the indomitable courage that ever strives
for the cause of right and justice.

By June 19 the legations were cut off. An identical note from the, Yamen ordered each minister
to leave Peking, under a promised escort, within twenty-four hours. To gain time they replied,
asking prolongation of the time, which was afterwards granted, and requesting an interview
with the Tsung-li Yamen on the following day. No reply being received, on the morning of the
20th the German minister, Baron von Ketteler, set out for the Yamen to obtain a response, and
oil the way was murdered.

An attempt by the legation guard to recover his body was foiled by the Chinese. Armed forces
turned out against the legations. Their quarters were surrounded and attacked. The mission
compounds were abandoned, their inmates taking refuge in the British legation, where all the
other legations and guards gathered for more effective defense. Four hundred persons were crowded
in its narrow compass. Two thousand native converts were assembled in a nearby palace under
protection of the foreigners. Lines of defense were strengthened, trenches dug, barricades
raised, and preparations made to stand a siege, which at once began.

From June 20 until July 17, writes Minister Conger, "there was scarcely an hour during which
there was not firing upon some part of our lines and into some of the legations, varying from
a single shot to a general and continuous attack along the whole line." Artillery was placed
around the legations and on the over-looking palace walls, and thousands Of 3-inch shot and
shell were fired, destroying some buildings and damaging all. So thickly did the balls rain,
that, when the ammunition of the besieged ran low, five quarts of Chinese bullets were gathered
in an hour in one compound and recast.

Attempts were made to burn the legations by setting neighboring houses on fire, but the flames
were successfully fought off, although the Austrian, Belgian, Italian. and Dutch legations
were then and subsequently burned. With the aid of the native converts, directed by the missionaries,
to whose helpful co-operation Mr. Conger awards unstinted praise, the British legation was
made a veritable fortress. The British minister, Sir Claude MacDonald, was chosen general commander
of the defense, with the secretary of the American legation, Mr. E. G. Squiers, as chief of staff.

To save life and ammunition the besieged sparingly returned the incessant fire of the Chinese
soldiery, fighting only to repel attack or make an occasional successful sortie for strategic
advantage, such as that of fifty-five American, British, and Russian marines led by Captain
Myers, of the United States Marine Corps, which resulted in the capture of a formidable barricade
on the wall that gravely menaced the American position. It was held to the last, and proved
an invaluable acquisition, because commanding the water gate through which the relief column
entered.

During the siege the defenders lost 65 killed, 135 wounded, and 7 by disease, the last all
children.

On July 14 the besieged had their first communication with the Tsung-li Yamen, from whom a
message came inviting to a conference, which was declined. Correspondence, however, ensued
and a sort of armistice was agreed upon, which stopped the bombardment and lessened the rifle
fire for a time. Even then no protection whatever was afforded, nor any aid given, save to
send to the legations a small supply of fruit and three sacks of flour.

Indeed, the only communication had with the Chinese Government related to the occasional delivery
or dispatch of a telegram or to the demands of the Tsung-li Yamen for the withdrawal of the
legations to the coast under escort. Not only are the protestations of the Chinese Government
that it protected and succored the legations positively contradicted, but irresistible proof
accumulates that the attacks upon them were made by Imperial troops, regularly uniformed, armed,
and officered, belonging to the command of Jung Lu, the Imperial commander in chief. Decrees
encouraging the Boxers, organizing them tinder prominent Imperial officers, provisioning them,
and even granting them large sums in the name of the Empress Dowager, are known to exist. Members
of the Tsung-li Yamen who counseled protection of the foreigners were beheaded. Even in the
distant provinces men suspected of foreign sympathy were put to death, prominent among these
being Chang Yen-hoon, formerly Chinese minister in Washington.

With the negotiation of the partial armistice of July 14, a proceeding which was doubtless
promoted by the representations of the Chinese envoy in Washington, the way was opened for
the conveyance to Mr. Conger of a test message sent by the Secretary of State through the kind
offices of Minister Wu Ting-fang. Mr. Conger's reply, dispatched from Peking on July 18 through
the same channel, afforded to the outside world the first tidings that the inmates of the legations
were still alive and hoping for succor.

This news stimulated the preparations for a joint relief expedition in numbers sufficient to
overcome the resistance which for a month had been organizing between Taku and the capital.
Reinforcements sent by all the co-operating Governments were constantly arriving. The United
States contingent, hastily assembled from the Philippines or dispatched from this country,
amounted to some 5,000 men, under the able command first of the lamented Colonel Liscurn and
afterwards of General Chaffee.

Toward the end of July the movement began. A severe conflict followed at Tientsin, in which
Colonel Liscurn was killed. The city was stormed and partly destroyed. Its capture afforded
the base of operations from which to make the final advance, which began in the first days
of August, the expedition being made up of Japanese, Russian, British, and American troops
at the outset.

Another battle was fought and won at Yangtsun. Thereafter the disheartened Chinese troops offered
little show of resistance. A few days later the important position of Ho-si-woo was taken.
A rapid march brought the united forces to the populous city of Tung Chow, which capitulated
without a contest.

On August 14 the capital was reached. After a brief conflict beneath the walls the relief column
entered and the legations were saved. The United States soldiers, sailors, and marines, officers
and men alike, in those distant climes and unusual surroundings, showed the same valor, discipline,
and good conduct and gave proof of the same high degree of intelligence and efficiency which
have distinguished them in every emergency.

The Imperial family and the Government had fled a few days before. The city was without visible
control. The remaining Imperial soldiery had made on the night of the 13th a last attempt to
exterminate the besieged, which was gallantly repelled. It fell to the occupying forces to
restore order and organize a provisional administration.

Happily the acute disturbances were confined to the northern provinces. It is a relief to recall
and a pleasure to record the loyal conduct of the viceroys and local authorities of the southern
and eastern provinces. Their efforts were continuously directed to the pacific control of the
vast populations under their rule and to the scrupulous observance of foreign treaty rights.
At critical moments they did not hesitate to memorialize the Throne, urging the protection
of the legations, the restoration of communication, and the assertion of the Imperial authority
against the subversive elements. They maintained excellent relations with the official representatives
of foreign powers. To their kindly disposition is largely due the success of the consuls in
removing many of the missionaries from the interior to places of safety. In this relation the
action of the consuls should be highly commended. In Shan-tung and eastern Chi-li the task
was difficult, but, thanks to their energy and the cooperation of American and foreign naval
commanders, hundreds of foreigners, including those of other nationalities than ours, were
rescued from imminent peril.

The policy of the United States through all this trying period was clearly announced and scrupulously
carried out. A circular note to the powers dated July 3 proclaimed our attitude. Treating the
condition in the north as one of virtual anarchy, in which the great provinces of the south
and southeast had no share, we regarded the local authorities in the latter quarters as representing
the Chinese people with whom we sought to remain in peace and friendship. Our declared aims
involved no war against the Chinese nation. We adhered to the legitimate office of rescuing
the imperiled legation, obtaining redress for wrongs already suffered, securing wherever possible
the safety of American life and property in China, and preventing a spread of the disorders
or their recurrence.

As was then said, "The policy of the Government of the United States is to seek a solution
which may bring about permanent safety and peace to China, preserve Chinese territorial and
administrative entity, protect all rights guaranteed to friendly powers by treaty and international
law, and safeguard for the world the principle of equal and impartial trade with all parts
of the Chinese Empire."

Faithful to those professions which, as it proved, reflected the views and purposes of the
other co-operating Governments, all our efforts have been directed toward ending the anomalous
situation in China by negotiations for a settlement at the earliest possible moment. As soon
as the sacred duty of relieving our legation and its dependents was accomplished we withdrew
from active hostilities, leaving our legation under an adequate guard in Peking as a channel
of negotiation and settlement--a course adopted by others of the interested powers. Overtures
of the empowered representatives of the Chinese Emperor have been considerately entertained.

The Russian proposition looking to the restoration of the Imperial power in Peking has been
accepted as in full consonance with our own desires, for we have held and hold that effective
reparation for wrongs suffered and an enduring settlement that will make their recurrence impossible
can best be brought about under an authority which the Chinese nation reverences and obeys.
While so doing we forego no jot of our undoubted right to exact exemplary and deterrent punishment
of the responsible authors and abettors of the criminal acts whereby we and other nations have
suffered grievous injury.

For the real culprits, the evil counselors who have misled the Imperial judgment and diverted
the sovereign authority to their own guilty ends, full expiation becomes imperative within
the rational limits of retributive Justice. Regarding this as the initial condition of an acceptable
settlement between China and the powers, I said in my message of October 18 to the Chinese
Emperor: I trust that negotiations may begin so soon as we and the other offended Governments
shall be effectively satisfied of Your Majesty's ability and power to treat with just sternness
the principal offenders, who are doubly culpable, not alone toward the foreigners, but toward
Your Majesty, under whose rule the purpose of China to dwell in concord with the world had
hitherto found expression in the welcome and protection assured to strangers. Taking, as a
point of departure, the Imperial edict appointing Earl Li Hung Chang and Prince Ching plenipotentiaries
to arrange a settlement, and the edict of September 25, whereby certain high officials were
designated for punishment, this Government has moved, in concert with the other powers, toward
the opening of negotiations, which Mr. Conger, assisted by Mr. Rockhill, has been authorized
to conduct on behalf of the United States.

General bases of negotiation formulated by the Government of the French Republic have been
accepted with certain reservations as to details, made necessary by our own circumstances,
but, like similar reservations by other powers, open to discussion in the progress of the negotiations.
The disposition of the Emperor's Government to admit liability for wrongs done to foreign Governments
and their nationals, and to act upon such additional designation of the guilty persons as the
foreign ministers at Peking may be in a position to make, gives hope of a complete settlement
of all questions involved, assuring foreign rights of residence and intercourse on terms of
equality for all the world.

I regard as one of the essential factors of a durable adjustment the securement of adequate
guarantees for liberty of faith, since insecurity of those natives who may embrace alien creeds
is a scarcely less effectual assault upon the rights of foreign worship and teaching than would
be the direct invasion thereof.

The matter of indemnity for our wronged citizens is a question of grave concern. Measured in
money alone, a sufficient reparation may prove to be beyond the ability of China to meet. All
the powers concur in emphatic disclaimers of any purpose of aggrandizement through the dismemberment
of the Empire. I am disposed to think that due compensation may be made in part by increased
guarantees of security for foreign rights and immunities, and, most important of all, by the
opening of China to the equal commerce of all the world. These views have been and will be
earnestly advocated by our representatives.

The Government of Russia has put forward a suggestion, that in the event of protracted divergence
of views in regard to indemnities the matter may be relegated to the Court of Arbitration at
The Hague. I favorably incline to this, believing that high tribunal could not fail to reach
a solution no less conducive to the stability and enlarged prosperity of China itself than
immediately beneficial to the powers.

Ratifications of a treaty of extradition with the Argentine Republic were exchanged on June 2 last.

While the Austro-Hungarian Government has in the many cases that have been reported of the
arrest of our naturalized citizens for alleged evasion of military service faithfully observed
the provisions of the treaty and released such persons from military obligations, it has in
some instances expelled those whose presence in the community of their origin was asserted
to have a pernicious influence. Representations have been made against this course whenever
its adoption has appeared unduly onerous.

We have been urgently solicited by Belgium to ratify the International Convention of June,
1899, amendatory of the previous Convention of 1890 in respect to the regulation of the liquor
trade in Africa. Compliance was necessarily withheld, in the absence of the advice and consent
of the Senate thereto. The principle involved has the cordial sympathy of this Government,
which in the reversionary negotiations advocated more drastic measures, and I would gladly
see its extension, by international agreement, to the restriction of the liquor traffic with
all uncivilized peoples, especially in the Western Pacific.

A conference will be held at Brussels December 11, 1900, under the Convention for the protection
of industrial property, concluded at Paris March 20, 1883, to which delegates from this country
have been appointed. Any lessening of the difficulties that our inventors encounter in obtaining
patents abroad for their inventions and that our farmers, manufacturers, and merchants may
have in the protection of their trade-marks is worthy of careful consideration, and your attention
will be called to the results of the conference at the proper time.

In the interest of expanding trade between this country and South America, efforts have been
made during the past year to conclude conventions with the southern republics for the enlargement
of postal facilities. Two such agreements, signed with Bolivia on April 24, of which that establishing
the money-order system is undergoing certain changes suggested by the Post-Office Department,
have not yet been ratified by this Government. A treaty of extradition with that country, signed
on the same day, is before the Senate.

A boundary dispute between Brazil and Bolivia over the territory of Acre is in a fair way of
friendly adjustment, a protocol signed in December, 1899, having agreed on a definite frontier
and provided for its demarcation by a joint commission.

Conditions in Brazil have weighed heavily on our export trade to that country in marked contrast
to the favorable conditions upon which Brazilian products are admitted into our markets. Urgent
representations have been made to that Government on the subject and some amelioration has
been effected. We rely upon the reciprocal justice and good will of that Government to assure
to us a further improvement in our commercial relations.

The Convention signed May 24, 1897, for the final settlement of claims left in abeyance upon
the dissolution of the Commission of 1893, was at length ratified by the Chilean Congress and
the supplemental Commission has been organized.

It remains for the Congress to appropriate for the necessary expenses of the Commission.

The insurrectionary movement which disturbed Colombia in the latter part of 1899 has been practically
suppressed, although guerrillas still operate in some departments. The executive power of that
Republic changed hands in August last by the act of Vice-President Marroquin in assuming the
reins of government during the absence of President San Clemente from the capital. The change
met with no serious opposition, and, following the precedents in such cases, the United States
minister entered into relations with the new defacto Government on September 17.

It is gratifying to announce that the residual questions between Costa Rica and Nicaragua growing
out of the Award of President Cleveland in 1888 have been adjusted through the choice of an
American engineer, General E. P. Alexander, as umpire to run the disputed line. His task has
been accomplished to the satisfaction of both contestants.

A revolution in the Dominican Republic toward the close of last year resulted in the installation
of President Jimenez, whose Government was formally recognized in January. Since then final
payment has been made of the American claim in regard to the Ozama bridge.

The year of the exposition has been fruitful in occasions for displaying the good will that
exists between this country and France. This great competition brought together from every
nation the best in natural productions, industry, science, and the arts, submitted in generous
rivalry to a judgment made all the more searching because of that rivalry. The extraordinary
increase of exportations from this country during the past three years and the activity with
which our inventions and wares had invaded new markets caused much interest to center upon
the American exhibit, and every encouragement was offered in the way of space and facilities
to permit of its being comprehensive as a whole and complete in every part.

It was, however, not an easy task to assemble exhibits that could fitly illustrate our diversified
resources and manufactures. Singularly enough, our national prosperity lessened the incentive
to exhibit. The dealer in raw materials knew that the user must come to him; the great factories
were contented with the phenomenal demand for their output, not alone at home, but also abroad,
where merit had already won a profitable trade.

Appeals had to be made to the patriotism of exhibitors to induce them to incur outlays promising
no immediate return. This was especially the case where it became needful to complete an industrial
sequence or illustrate a class of processes. One manufacturer after another had to be visited
and importuned, and at times, after a promise to exhibit in a particular section had been obtained,
it would be withdrawn, owing to pressure of trade orders, and a new quest would have to be made.

The installation of exhibits, too, encountered many obstacles and involved unexpected cost.
The exposition was far from ready at the date fixed for its opening. The French transportation
lines were congested with offered freight. Belated goods had to be hastily installed in unfinished
quarters with whatever labor could be obtained in the prevailing confusion. Nor was the task
of the Commission lightened by the fact that, owing to the scheme of classification adopted,
it was impossible to have the entire exhibit of any one country in the same building or more
than one group of exhibits in the same part of any building. Our installations were scattered
on both sides of the Seine and in widely remote suburbs of Paris, so that additional assistants
were needed for the work of supervision and arrangement.

Despite all these drawbacks the contribution of the United States was not only the largest
foreign display, but was among the earliest in place and the most orderly in arrangement. Our
exhibits were shown in one hundred and one out of one hundred and twenty-one classes, and more
completely covered the entire classification than those of any other nation. In total number
they ranked next after those of France, and the attractive form in which they were presented
secured general attention.

A criterion of the extent and success of our participation and of the thoroughness with which
our exhibits were organized is seen in the awards granted to American exhibitors by the international
jury, namely, grand prizes, 240; gold medals, 597; silver medals, 776; bronze medals, 541,
and honorable mentions, 322--2,476 in all, being the greatest total number given to the exhibit
of any exhibiting nation, as well as the largest number in each grade. This significant recognition
of merit in competition with the chosen exhibits of all other nations and at the hands of juries
almost wholly made up of representatives of France and other competing countries is not only
most gratifying, but is especially valuable, since it sets us to the front in international
questions of supply and demand, while the large proportion of awards in the classes of art
and artistic manufactures afforded unexpected proof of the stimulation of national culture
by the prosperity that flows from natural productiveness joined to industrial excellence.

Apart from the exposition several occasions for showing international good will occurred. The
inauguration in Paris of the Lafayette Monument, presented by the school children of the United
States, and the designing of a commemorative coin by our Mint and the presentation of the first
piece struck to the President of the Republic, were marked by appropriate ceremonies, and the
Fourth of July was especially observed in the French capital.

Good will prevails in our relations with the German Empire. An amicable adjustment of the long-pending
question of the admission of our life-insurance companies to do business in Prussia has been
reached. One of the principal companies has already been readmitted and the way is opened for
the others to share the privilege.

The settlement of the Samoan problem, to which I adverted in my last message, has accomplished
good results. Peace and contentment prevail in the islands, especially in Tutuila, where a
convenient administration that has won the confidence and esteem of the kindly disposed natives
has been organized under the direction of the commander of the United States naval station
at Pago-Pago.

An Imperial meat inspection law has been enacted for Germany. While it may simplify the inspections,
it prohibits certain products heretofore admitted. There is still great uncertainty as to whether
our well-nigh extinguished German trade in meat products can revive tinder its new burdens.
Much will depend upon regulations not yet promulgated, which we confidently hope will be free
from the discriminations which attended the enforcement of the old statutes.

The remaining link in the new lines of direct telegraphic communication between the United
States and the German Empire has recently been completed, affording a gratifying occasion for
exchange of friendly congratulations with the German Emperor.

Our friendly relations with Great Britain continue. The war in Southern Africa introduced important
questions. A condition unusual in international wars was presented in that while one belligerent
had control of the seas, the other had no ports, shipping, or direct trade, but was only accessible
through the territory of a neutral. Vexatious questions arose through Great Britain's action
in respect to neutral cargoes, not contraband in their own nature, shipped to Portuguese South
Africa, on the score of probable or suspected ultimate destination to the Boer States.

Such consignments in British ships, by which alone direct trade is kept up between our ports
and Southern Africa, were seized in application of a municipal law prohibiting British vessels
from trading with the enemy without regard to any contraband character of the goods, while
cargoes shipped to Delagoa Bay in neutral bottoms were arrested on the ground of alleged destination
to enemy's country. Appropriate representations on our part resulted in the British Government
agreeing to purchase outright all such goods shown to be the actual property of American citizens,
thus closing the incident to the satisfaction of the immediately interested parties, although,
unfortunately, without a broad settlement of the question of a neutral's right to send goods
not contraband per se to a neutral port adjacent to a belligerent area.

The work of marking certain provisional boundary points, for convenience of administration,
around the head of Lynn Canal, in accordance with the temporary arrangement of October, 1899,
Was completed by a joint survey in July last. The modus vivendi has so far worked without friction,
and the Dominion Government has provided rules and regulations for securing to our citizens
the benefit of the reciprocal stipulation that the citizens or subjects of either power found
by that arrangement within the temporary jurisdiction of the other shall suffer no diminution
of the rights and privileges they have hitherto enjoyed. But however necessary such an expedient
may have been to tide over the grave emergencies of the situation, it is at best but an unsatisfactory
makeshift, which should not be suffered to delay the speedy and complete establishment of the
frontier line to which we are entitled under the Russo-American treaty for the cession of Alaska.

In this relation I may refer again to the need of definitely marking the Alaskan boundary where
it follows the one hundred and forty-first meridian. A convention to that end has been before
the Senate for some two years, but as no action has been taken I contemplate negotiating a
new convention for a joint determination of the meridian by telegraphic observations. These,
it is believed, will give more accurate and unquestionable results than the sidereal methods
heretofore independently followed, which, as is known, proved discrepant at several points
on the line, although not varying at any place more than 700 feet.

The pending claim of R. H. May against the Guatemalan Government has been settled by arbitration,
Mr. George F. B. Jenner, British minister at Guatemala, who was chosen as sole arbitrator,
having awarded $143,750.73 in gold to the claimant.

Various American claims against Haiti have been or are being advanced to the resort of arbitration.

As the result of negotiations with the Government of Honduras in regard to the indemnity demanded
for the murder of Frank H. Pears in Honduras, that Government has paid $10,000 in settlement
of the claim of the heirs.

The assassination of King Humbert called forth sincere expressions of sorrow from this Government
and people, and occasion was fitly taken to testify to the Italian nation the high regard here
felt for the memory of the lamented ruler.

In my last message I referred at considerable length to the lynching of five Italians at Tallulah.
Notwithstanding the efforts of the Federal Government, the production of evidence tending to
inculpate the authors of this grievous offense against our civilization, and the repeated inquests
set on foot by the authorities of the State of Louisiana, no punishments have followed. Successive
grand juries have failed to indict. The representations of the Italian Government in the face
of this miscarriage have been most temperate and just.

Setting the principle at issue high above all consideration of merely pecuniary indemnification,
such as this Government made in the three previous cases, Italy has solemnly invoked the pledges
of existing treaty and asked that the justice to which she is entitled shall be meted in regard
to her unfortunate countrymen in our territory with the same full measure she herself would
give to any American were his reciprocal treaty rights contemned. It is incumbent upon us to
remedy the statutory omission which has led, and may again lead, to such untoward results.
I have pointed out the necessity and the precedent for legislation of this character. Its enactment
is a simple measure of previsory justice toward the nations with which we as a sovereign equal
make treaties requiring reciprocal observance.

While the Italian Government naturally regards such action as the primary and, indeed, the
most essential element in the disposal of the Tallulah incident, I advise that, in accordance
with precedent, and in view of the improbability of that particular case being reached by the
bill now pending, Congress make gracious provision for indemnity to the Italian sufferers in
the same form and proportion as heretofore.

In my inaugural address I referred to the general subject of lynching in these words: Lynching
must not be tolerated in a great and civilized country like the United States; courts, not
mobs, must execute the penalties of the law. The preservation of public order, the right of
discussion, the integrity of courts, and the orderly administration of justice must continue
forever the rock of safety upon which our Government securely rests. This I most urgently reiterate
and again invite the attention of my countrymen to this reproach upon our civilization.

The closing year has witnessed a decided strengthening of Japan's relations to other states.
The development of her independent judicial and administrative functions under the treaties
which took effect July 17, 1899, has proceeded without international friction, showing the
competence of the Japanese to hold a foremost place among modern peoples.

In the treatment of the difficult Chinese problems Japan has acted in harmonious concert with
the other powers, and her generous cooperation materially aided in the joint relief of the
beleaguered legations in Peking and in bringing about an understanding preliminary to a settlement
of the issues between the powers and China. Japan's declarations in favor of the integrity
of the Chinese Empire and the conservation of open world trade therewith have been frank and
positive. As a factor for promoting the general interests of peace, order, and fair commerce
in the Far East the influence of Japan can hardly be overestimated.

The valuable aid and kindly courtesies extended by the Japanese Government and naval officers
to the battle ship Oregon are gratefully appreciated.

Complaint was made last summer of the discriminatory enforcement of a bubonic quarantine against
Japanese on the Pacific coast and of interference with their travel in California and Colorado
under the health laws of those States. The latter restrictions have been adjudged by a Federal
court to be unconstitutional. No recurrence of either cause of complaint is apprehended.

No noteworthy incident has occurred in our relations with our important southern neighbor.
Commercial intercourse with Mexico continues to thrive, and the two Governments neglect no
opportunity to foster their mutual interests in all practicable ways.

Pursuant to the declaration of the Supreme Court that the awards of the late joint Commission
in the La Abra and Weil claims were obtained through fraud, the sum awarded in the first case,
$403,030.08, has been returned to Mexico, and the amount of the Weil award will be returned
in like manner.

A Convention indefinitely extending the time for the labors of the United States and Mexican
International (Water) Boundary Commission has been signed.

It is with satisfaction that I am able to announce the formal notification at The Hague, on
September 4, of the deposit of ratifications of the Convention for the Pacific Settlement of
International Disputes by sixteen powers, namely, the United States, Austria, Belgium, Denmark,
England, France, Germany, Italy, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Siam, Spain, Sweden and
Norway, and the Netherlands. Japan also has since ratified the Convention.

The Administrative Council of the Permanent Court of Arbitration has been organized and has
adopted rules of order and a constitution for the International Arbitration Bureau. In accordance
with Article XXIII of the Convention providing for the appointment by each signatory power
of persons of known competency in questions of international law as arbitrators, I have appointed
as members of this Court, Hon. Benjamin Harrison, of Indiana, ex-President of the United States;
Hon. Melville W. Fuller, of Illinois, Chief justice of the United States; Hon. John W. Griggs,
of New Jersey, Attorney General of the United States; and Hon. George Gray, of Delaware, a
judge of the circuit court of the United States.

As an incident of the brief revolution in the Mosquito district of Nicaragua early in 1899
the insurgents forcibly collected from American merchants duties upon imports. On the restoration
of order the Nicaraguan authorities demanded a second payment of such duties on the ground
that they were due to the titular Government and that their diversion had aided the revolt.

This position was not accepted by us. After prolonged discussion a compromise was effected
under which the amount of the second payments was deposited with the British consul at San
Juan del Norte in trust until the two Governments should determine whether the first payments
had been made under compulsion to a de facto authority. Agreement as to this was not reached,
and the point was waived by the act of the Nicaraguan Government in requesting the British
consul to return the deposits to the merchants.

Menacing differences between several of the Central American States have been accommodated,
our ministers rendering good offices toward an understanding.

The all-important matter of an interoceanic canal has assumed a new phase. Adhering to its
refusal to reopen the question of the forfeiture of the contract of the Maritime Canal Company,
which was terminated for alleged nonexecution in October, 1899, the Government of Nicaragua
has since supplemented that action by declaring the so styled Eyre-Cragin option void for nonpayment
of the stipulated advance. Protests in relation to these acts have been filed in the State
Department and are under consideration. Deeming itself relieved from existing engagements,
the Nicaraguan Government shows a disposition to deal freely with the canal question either
in the way of negotiations with the United States or by taking measures to promote the waterway.

Overtures for a convention to effect the building of a canal under the auspices of the United
States are under consideration. In the meantime, the views of the Congress upon the general
subject, in the light of the report of the Commission appointed to examine the comparative
merits of the various trans-Isthmian ship-canal projects, may be awaited.

I commend to the early attention of the Senate the Convention with Great Britain to facilitate
the construction of such a canal and to remove any objection which might arise out of the Convention
commonly called the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty.

The long-standing contention with Portugal, growing out of the seizure of the Delagoa Bay Railway,
has been at last determined by a favorable award of the tribunal of arbitration at Berne, to
which it was submitted. The amount of the award, which was deposited in London awaiting arrangements
by the Governments of the United States and Great Britain for its disposal, has recently been
paid over to the two Governments.

A lately signed Convention of Extradition with Peru as amended by the Senate has been ratified
by the Peruvian Congress.

Another illustration of the policy of this Government to refer international disputes to impartial
arbitration is seen in the agreement reached with Russia to submit the claims on behalf of
American sealing vessels seized in Bering Sea to determination by Mr. T. M. C. Asser, a distinguished
statesman and jurist of the Netherlands.

Thanks are due to the Imperial Russian Government for the kindly aid rendered by its authorities
in eastern Siberia to American missionaries fleeing from Manchuria.

Satisfactory progress has been made toward the conclusion of a general treaty of friendship
and intercourse with Spain, in replacement of the old treaty, which passed into abeyance by
reason of the late war. A new convention of extradition is approaching completion, and I should
be much pleased were a commercial arrangement to follow. I feel that we should not suffer to
pass any opportunity to reaffirm the cordial ties that existed between us and Spain from the
time of our earliest independence, and to enhance the mutual benefits of that commercial intercourse
which is natural between the two countries.

By the terms of the Treaty of Peace the line bounding the ceded Philippine group in the southwest
failed to include several small islands lying westward of the Sulus, which have always been
recognized as under Spanish control. The occupation of Sibutd and Cagayan Sulu by our naval
forces elicited a claim on the part of Spain, the essential equity of which could not be gainsaid.
In order to cure the defect of the treaty by removing all possible ground of future misunderstanding
respecting the interpretation of its third article, I directed the negotiation of a supplementary
treaty, which will be forthwith laid before the Senate, whereby Spain quits all title and claim
of title to the islands named as well as to any and all islands belonging to the Philippine
Archipelago lying outside the lines described in said third article, and agrees that all such
islands shall be comprehended in the cession of the archipelago as fully as if they had been
expressly included within those lines. In consideration of this cession the United States is
to pay to Spain the sum of $100,000. I ask that action be taken to fulfill this obligation.

The King of Sweden and Norway has accepted the joint invitation of the United States, Germany,
and Great Britain to arbitrate claims growing out of losses sustained in the Samoan Islands
in the course of military operations made necessary by the disturbances in 1899.

Our claims upon the Government of the Sultan for reparation for injuries suffered by American
citizens in Armenia and elsewhere give promise of early and satisfactory settlement. His Majesty's
good disposition in this regard has been evinced by the issuance of an irade for rebuilding
the American college at Harpoot.

The failure of action by the Senate at its last session upon the commercial conventions then
submitted for its consideration and approval, although caused by the great pressure of other
legislative business, has caused much disappointment to the agricultural and industrial interests
of the country, which hoped to profit by their provisions. The conventional periods for their
ratification having expired, it became necessary to sign additional articles extending the
time for that purpose. This was requested on our part, and the other Governments interested
have concurred with the exception of one convention, in respect to which no formal reply has
been received.

Since my last communication to the Congress on this subject special commercial agreements under
the third section of the tariff act have been proclaimed with Portugal, with Italy, and with
Germany. Commercial conventions tinder the general limitations of the fourth section of the
same act have been concluded with Nicaragua, with Ecuador, with the Dominican Republic, with
Great Britain on behalf of the island of Trinidad, and with Denmark on behalf of the island
of St. Croix. These will be early communicated to the Senate. Negotiations with other Governments
are in progress for the improvement and security of our commercial relations.

The policy of reciprocity so manifestly rests upon the principles of international equity and
has been so repeatedly approved by the people of the United States that there ought to be no
hesitation in either branch of the Congress in giving to it full effect.

This Government desires to preserve the most just and amicable commercial relations with all
foreign countries, unmoved by the industrial rivalries necessarily developed in the expansion
of international trade. It is believed that the foreign Governments generally entertain the
same purpose, although in some instances there are clamorous demands upon them for legislation
specifically hostile to American interests. Should these demands prevail I shall communicate
with the Congress with the view of advising such legislation as may be necessary to meet the
emergency.

The exposition of the resources and products of the Western Hemisphere to be held at Buffalo
next year promises important results not only for the United States but for the other participating
countries. It is gratifying that the Latin-American States have evinced the liveliest interest,
and the fact that an International American Congress will be held in the City of Mexico while
the exposition is in progress encourages the hope of a larger display at Buffalo than might
otherwise be practicable. The work of preparing an exhibit of our national resources is making
satisfactory progress under the direction of different officials of the Federal Government,
and the various States of the Union have shown a disposition toward the most liberal participation
in the enterprise.

The Bureau of the American Republics continues to discharge, with the happiest results, the
important work of promoting cordial relations between the United States and the Latin-American
countries, all of which are now active members of the International Union. The Bureau has been
instrumental in bringing about the agreement for another International American Congress, which
is to meet in the City of Mexico in October, 1901. The Bureau's future for another term of
ten years is assured by the international compact, but the congress will doubtless have much
to do with shaping new lines of work and a general policy. Its usefulness to the interests
of Latin-American trade is widely appreciated and shows a gratifying development.

The practical utility of the consular service in obtaining a wide range of information as to
the industries and commerce of other countries and the opportunities thereby afforded for introducing
the sale of our goods have kept steadily in advance of the notable expansion of our foreign
trade, and abundant evidence has been furnished, both at home and abroad, of the fact that
the Consular Reports, including many from our diplomatic representatives, have to a considerable
extent pointed out ways and means of disposing of a great variety of manufactured goods which
otherwise might not have found sale abroad.

Testimony of foreign observers to the commercial efficiency of the consular corps seems to
be conclusive, and our own manufacturers and exporters highly appreciate the value of the services
rendered not only in the printed reports but also in the individual efforts of consular officers
to promote American trade. An increasing part of the work of the Bureau of Foreign Commerce,
whose primary duty it is to compile and print the reports, is to answer inquiries from trade
organizations, business houses, etc., as to conditions in various parts of the world, and,
notwithstanding the smallness of the force employed, the work has been so systematized that
responses are made with such promptitude and accuracy as to elicit flattering encomiums. The
experiment of printing the Consular Reports daily for immediate use by trade bodies, exporters,
and the press, which was begun in January, 1898, continues to give general satisfaction.

It is gratifying to be able to state that the surplus revenues for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1900, were $79,527,060.18. For the six preceding years we had only deficits, the aggregate
of which from 1894 to 1899, inclusive, amounted to $283,022,991.14. The receipts for the year
from all sources, exclusive of postal revenues, aggregated $567,240,851.89, and expenditures
for all purposes, except for the administration of the postal department, aggregated $487,713,791.71.
The receipts from customs were $233,164,871.16, an increase over the preceding year Of $27,036,389.41.
The receipts from internal revenue were $295,327,926.76, an increase Of $21,890,765.25 over
1899. The receipts from miscellaneous sources were $38,748,053.97, as against $36,394,976.92
for the previous year.

It is gratifying also to note that during the year a considerable reduction is shown in the
expenditures of the Government. The War Department expenditures for the fiscal year 1900 were
$134,774,767.78, a reduction of $95,066,486.69 over those of 1899. In the Navy Department the
expenditures were $55,953,077.72 for the year 1900, as against $63,942,104.25 for the preceding
year, a decrease of $7,989,026.53. In the expenditures on account of Indians there was a decrease
in 1900 over 1899 Of $2,630,604.38; and in the civil and miscellaneous expenses for 1900 there
was a reduction Of $13,418,065.74.

Because of the excess of revenues over expenditures the Secretary of the Treasury was enabled
to apply bonds and other securities to the sinking fund to the amount Of $56,544,556.06. The
details of the sinking fund are set forth in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to
which I invite attention. The present condition of the Treasury is one of undoubted strength.
The available cash balance November 30 was $139,303,794.50. Under the form of statement prior
to the financial law of March 14 last there would have been included in the statement of available
cash gold coin and bullion held for the redemption of United States notes.

If this form were pursued, the cash balance including the present gold reserve of $150,000,000,
would be $289,303,794.50. Such balance November 30, 1899, was $296,495,301.55. In the general
fund, which is wholly separate from the reserve and trust funds, there was on November 30,
$70,090,073.15 in gold coin and bullion, to which should be added $22,957,300 in gold certificates
subject to issue, against which there is held in the Division of Redemption gold coin and bullion,
making a total holding of free gold amounting to $93,047,373.15.

It will be the duty as I am sure it will be the disposition of the Congress to provide whatever
further legislation is needed to insure the continued parity under all conditions between our
two forms of metallic money, silver and gold.

Our surplus revenues have permitted the Secretary of the Treasury since the close of the fiscal
year to call in the funded loan of 1891 continued at 2 per cent, in the sum of $25,364,500.
To and including November 30, $23,458,100 Of these bonds have been paid. This sum, together
with the amount which may accrue from further redemptions under the call, will be applied to
the sinking fund.

The law of March 14, 1900, provided for refunding into 2 per cent thirty-year bonds, payable,
principal and interest, in gold coin of the present standard value, that portion of the public
debt represented by the 3 per cent bonds of 1908, the 4 percents Of 1907, and the 5 percents
of 1904, Of which there was outstanding at the date of said law $839,149,930, The holders of
the old bonds presented them for exchange between March 14 and November 30 to the amount of
$364,943,750. The net saving to the Government on these transactions aggregates $9,106,166.

Another effect of the operation, as stated by the Secretary, is to reduce the charge upon the
Treasury for the payment of interest from the dates of refunding to February 1, 1904, by the
sum of more than seven million dollars annually. From February 1, 1904, to July 1, 11907, the
annual interest charge will be reduced by the sum of more than five millions, and for the thirteen
months ending August 1, 1908, by about one million. The full details of the refunding are given
in the annual report of the Secretary of the Treasury.

The beneficial effect of the financial act of 1900, so far as it relates to a modification
of the national banking act, is already apparent. The provision for the incorporation of national
banks with a capital of not less than $25,000 in places not exceeding three thousand inhabitants
has resulted in the extension of banking facilities to many small communities hitherto unable
to provide themselves with banking institutions under the national system. There were organized
from the enactment of the law up to and including November 30, 369 national banks, of which
266 were with capital less than $50,000, and 103 with capital of $50,000 or more.

It is worthy of mention that the greater number of banks being organized under the new law
are in sections where the need of banking facilities has been most pronounced. Iowa stands
first, with 30 banks of the smaller class, while Texas, Oklahoma, Indian Territory, and the
middle and western sections of the country have also availed themselves largely of the privileges
under the new law.

A large increase in national bank-note circulation has resulted from the provision of the act
which permits national banks to issue circulating notes to the par value of the United States
bonds deposited as security instead of only go per cent thereof, as heretofore. The increase
in circulating notes from March 14 to November 30 is $77,889,570.

The party in power is committed to such legislation as will better make the currency responsive
to the varying needs of business at all seasons and in all sections.

Our foreign trade shows a remarkable record of commercial and industrial progress. The total
of imports and exports for the first time in the history of the country exceeded two billions
of dollars. The exports are greater than they have ever been before, the total for the fiscal
year 1900 being $1,394,483,082, an increase over 1899 of $167,459,780, an increase over 1898
of $163,000,752, over 1897 Of $343,489,526, and greater than 1896 by $511,876,144.

The growth of manufactures in the United States is evidenced by the fact that exports of manufactured
products largely exceed those of any previous year, their value for 1900 being $433,851,756,
against $339,592,146 in 1899, an increase of 28 per cent.

Agricultural products were also exported during 1900 in greater volume than in 1899, the total
for the year being $835,858,123, against $784,776,142 in 1899.

The imports for the year amounted to $849,941,184, an increase over 1899 of $152,792,695. This
increase is largely in materials for manufacture, and is in response to the rapid development
of manufacturing in the United States. While there was imported for use in manufactures in
1900 material to the value of $79,768,972 in excess of 1899, it is reassuring to observe that
there is a tendency toward decrease in the importation of articles manufactured ready for consumption,
which in 1900 formed 15.17 per cent of the total imports, against 15.54 per cent in 1899 and
21.09 per cent in 1896.

I recommend that the Congress at its present session reduce the internal-revenue taxes imposed
to meet the expenses of the war with Spain. in the sum of thirty millions of dollars. This
reduction should be secured by the remission of those taxes which experience has shown to be
the most burdensome to the industries of the people.

I specially urge that there be included in whatever reduction is made the legacy tax on bequests
for public uses of a literary, educational, or charitable character.

American vessels during the past three years have carried about 9 per cent of our exports and
imports. Foreign ships should carry the least, not the greatest, part of American trade. The
remarkable growth of our steel industries, the progress of shipbuilding for the domestic trade,
and our steadily maintained expenditures for the Navy have created an opportunity to place
the United States in the first rank of commercial maritime powers.

Besides realizing a proper national aspiration this will mean the establishment and healthy
growth along all our coasts of a distinctive national industry, expanding the field for the
profitable employment of labor and capital. It will increase the transportation facilities
and reduce freight charges on the vast volume of products brought from the interior to the
seaboard for export, and will strengthen an arm of the national defense upon which the founders
of the Government and their successors have relied. The attention of the Congress is invited
to the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury in his annual report for legislation
in behalf of the Revenue-Cutter Service, and favorable action is urged. Restraint upon such
combinations as are injurious, and which are within Federal jurisdiction, should be promptly
applied by the Congress.

In my last annual message I dwelt at some length upon the condition of affairs in the Philippines.
While seeking to impress upon you that the grave responsibility of the future government of
those islands rests with the Congress of the United States, I abstained from recommending at
that time a specific and final form of government for the territory actually held by the United
States forces and in which as long as insurrection continues the military arm must necessarily
be supreme. I stated my purpose, until the Congress shall have made the formal expression of
its will, to use the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the statutes to uphold
the sovereignty of the United States in those distant islands as in all other places where
our flag rightfully floats, placing, to that end, at the disposal of the army and navy all
the means which the liberality of the Congress and the people have provided. No contrary expression
of the will of the Congress having been made, I have steadfastly pursued the purpose so declared,
employing the civil arm as well toward the accomplishment of pacification and the institution
of local governments within the lines of authority and law.

Progress in the hoped-for direction has been favorable. Our forces have successfully controlled
the greater part of the islands, overcoming the organized forces of the insurgents and carrying
order and administrative regularity to all quarters. What opposition remains is for the most
part scattered, obeying no concerted plan of strategic action, operating only by the methods
common to the traditions of guerrilla warfare, which, while ineffective to alter the general
control now established, are still sufficient to beget insecurity among the populations that
have felt the good results of our control and thus delay the conferment upon them of the fuller
measures of local self-government, of education, and of industrial and agricultural development
which we stand ready to give to them.

By the spring of this year the effective opposition of the dissatisfied Tagals to the authority
of the United States was virtually ended, thus opening the door for the extension of a stable
administration over much of the territory of the Archipelago. Desiring to bring this about,
I appointed in March last a civil Commission composed of the Hon. William H. Taft, of Ohio;
Prof. Dean C. Worcester, of Michigan; the Hon. Luke I. Wright, of Tennessee; the Hon. Henry
C. Ide, of Vermont, and Prof. Bernard Moses, of California. The aims of their mission and the
scope of their authority are clearly set forth in my instructions of April 7, 1900, addressed
to the Secretary of War to be transmitted to them:

In the message transmitted to the Congress on the 5th of December, 1899, I said, speaking of
the Philippine Islands: "As long as the insurrection continues the military arm must necessarily
be supreme. But there is no reason why steps should not be taken from time to time to inaugurate
governments essentially popular in their form as fast as territory is held and controlled by
our troops. To this end I am considering the advisability of the return of the Commission,
or such of the members thereof as can be secured, to aid the existing authorities and facilitate
this work throughout the islands."

The Commissioners named will meet and act as a board, and the Hon. William H. Taft t is designated
as president of the board. It is probable that the transfer of authority from military commanders
to civil officers will be gradual and will occupy a considerable period. Its successful accomplishment
and the maintenance of peace and order in the meantime will require the most perfect co-operation
between the civil and military authorities in the islands, and both should be directed during
the transition period by the same Executive Department. The Commission will therefore report
to the Secretary of War, and all their action will be subject to your approval and control.

You will instruct the Commission to proceed to the city of Manila, where they will make their
principal office, and to communicate with the Military Governor of the Philippine Islands,
whom you will at the same time direct to render to them every assistance within his power in
the performance of their duties. Without hampering them by too specific instructions, they
should in general be enjoined, after making themselves familiar with the conditions and needs
of the country, to devote their attention in the first instance to the establishment of municipal
governments, in which the natives of the islands, both in the cities and in the rural communities,
shall be afforded the opportunity to manage their own local affairs to the fullest extent of
which they are capable and subject to the least degree of supervision and control which a careful
study of their capacities and observation of the workings of native control show to be consistent
with the maintenance of law, order, and loyalty.

The next subject in order of importance should be the organization of government in the larger
administrative divisions corresponding to counties, departments, or provinces, in which the
common interests of many or several municipalities falling within the same tribal lines, or
the same natural geographical limits, may best be subserved by a common administration. Whenever
the Commission is of the opinion that the condition of affairs in the islands is such that
the central administration may safely be transferred from military to civil control they will
report that conclusion to you, with their recommendations as to the form of central government
to be established for the purpose of taking over the control.

Beginning with the 1st day of September, 1900, the authority to exercise, subject to my approval,
through the Secretary of War, that part of the power of government in the Philippine Islands
which is of a legislative nature is to be transferred from the Military Governor of the islands
to this Commission, to be thereafter exercised by them in the place and stead of the Military
Governor, under such rules and regulations as you shall prescribe, until the establishment
of the civil central government for the islands contemplated in the last foregoing paragraph,
or until Congress shall otherwise provide. Exercise of this legislative authority will include
the making of rules and orders, having the effect of law, for the raising of revenue by taxes,
customs duties, and imposts; the appropriation and expenditure of public funds of the islands;
the establishment of an educational system throughout the islands; the establishment of a system
to secure an efficient civil service; the organization and establishment of courts; the organization
and establishment of municipal and departmental governments, and all other matters of a civil
nature for which the Military Governor is now competent to provide by rules or orders of a
legislative character.

The Commission will also have power during the same period to appoint to office such officers
under the judicial, educational, and civil-service systems and in the municipal and departmental
governments as shall be provided for. Until the complete transfer of control the Military Governor
will remain the chief executive head of the government of the islands, and will exercise the
executive authority now possessed by him and not herein expressly assigned to the Commission,
subject, however, to the rules and orders enacted by the Commission in the exercise of the
legislative powers conferred upon them. In the meantime the municipal and departmental governments
will continue to report to the Military Governor and be subject to his administrative supervision
and control, under your direction, but that supervision and control will be confined within
the narrowest limits consistent with the requirement that the powers of government in the municipalities
and departments shall be honestly and effectively exercised and that law and order and individual
freedom shall be maintained.

All legislative rules and orders, establishments of government, and appointments to office
by the Commission will take effect immediately, or at such times as they shall designate, subject
to your approval and action upon the coming in of the Commission's reports, which are to be
made from time to time as their action is taken. Wherever civil governments are constituted
under the direction of the Commission such military posts, garrisons, and forces will be continued
for the suppression of insurrection and brigandage and the maintenance of law and order as
the Military Commander shall deem requisite, and the military forces shall be at all times
subject, under his orders, to the call of the civil authorities for the maintenance of law
and order and the enforcement of their authority.

In the establishment of municipal governments the Commission will take as the basis of their
work the governments established by the Military Governor under his order of August 8, 1899.
and under the report of the board constituted by the Military Governor by his order of January
29, 1900, to formulate and report a plan of municipal government, of which His Honor Cayetano
Arellano, President of the Audiencia, was chairman, and they will give to the conclusions of
that board the weight and consideration which the high character and distinguished abilities
of its members justify.

In the constitution of departmental or provincial governments they will give especial attention
to the existing government of the island of Negros, constituted, with the approval of the people
of that island, under the order of the Military Governor of July 22, 1899, and after verifying,
so far as may be practicable, the reports of the successful working of that government they
will be guided by the experience thus acquired so far as it may be applicable to the condition
existing in other portions of the Philippines. They will avail themselves, to the fullest degree
practicable, of the conclusions reached by the previous Commission to the Philippines.

In the distribution of powers among the governments organized by the Commission, the presumption
is always to be in favor of the smaller subdivision, so that all the powers which can properly
be exercised by the municipal government shall be vested in that government, and all the powers
of a more general character which can be exercised by the departmental government shall be
vested in that government, and so that in the governmental system, which is the result of the
process, the central government of the islands, following the example of the distribution of
the powers between the States and the National Government of the United States, shall have
no direct administration except of matters of purely general concern, and shall have only such
supervision and control over local governments as may be necessary to secure and enforce faithful
and efficient administration by local officers.

The many Different degrees of civilization and varieties of custom and capacity among the people
of the different islands preclude very definite instruction as to the part which the people
shall take in the selection of their own officers; but these general rules are to be observed:
That in all cases the municipal officers, who administer the local affairs of the people, are
to be selected by the people, and that wherever officers of more extended jurisdiction are
to be selected in any way, natives of the islands are to be preferred, and if they can be found
competent and willing to perform the duties, they are to receive the offices in preference
to any others.

It will be necessary to fill some offices for the present with Americans which after a time
may well be filled by natives of the islands. As soon as practicable a system for ascertaining
the merit and fitness of candidates for civil office should be put in force. An indispensable
qualification for all offices and positions of trust and authority in the islands must be absolute
and unconditional loyalty to the United States, and absolute and unhampered authority and power
to remove and punish any officer deviating from that standard must at all times be retained
in the hands of the central authority of the islands.

In all the forms of government and administrative provisions which they are authorized to prescribe
the Commission should bear in mind that the government which they are establishing is designed
not for our satisfaction, or for the expression of our theoretical views, but for the happiness,
peace, and prosperity of the people of the Philippine Islands, and the measures adopted should
be made to conform to their customs, their habits, and even heir prejudices, to the fullest
extent consistent with the accomplishment of the Indispensable requisites of just and effective
government.

At the same time the Commission should bear in mind, and the people of the islands should be
made plainly to understand, that there are certain great principles of government which have
been made the basis of our governmental system which we deem essential to the rule of law and
the maintenance of individual freedom, and of which they have, unfortunately, been denied the
experience possessed by us; that there are also certain practical rules of government which
we have found to be essential to the preservation of these great principles of liberty and
law, and that these principles and these rules of government must be established and maintained
in their islands for the sake of their liberty and happiness, however much they may conflict
with the customs or laws of procedure with which they are familiar.

It is evident that the most enlightened thought of the Philippine Islands fully appreciates
the importance of these principles and rules, and they will inevitably within a short time
command universal assent.

It will be the duty of the Commission to make a thorough investigation into the titles to the
large tracts of land held or claimed by individuals or by religious orders; into the justice
of the claims and complaints made against such landholders by the people of the island or any
part of the people, and to seek by wise and peaceable measures a just settlement of the controversies
and redress of wrongs which have caused strife and bloodshed in the past. In the performance
of this duty the Commission is enjoined to see that no injustice is done; to have regard for
substantial rights and equity, disregarding technicalities so far as substantial right permits,
and to observe the following rules:

That the provision of the Treaty of Paris pledging the United States to the protection of all
rights of property in the islands, and as well the principle of our own Government which prohibits
the taking of private property without due process of law, shall not be violated; that the
welfare of the people of the islands, which should be a paramount consideration, shall be attained
consistently with this rule of property right; that if it becomes necessary for the public
interest of the people of the islands to dispose of claims to property which the Commission
finds to be not lawfully acquired and held disposition shall be made thereof by due legal procedure,
in which there shall be full opportunity for fair and impartial hearing and judgment; that
if the same public interests require the extinguishment of property rights lawfully acquired
and held due compensation shall be made out of the public treasury therefore; that no form
of religion and no minister of religion shall be forced upon any community or upon any citizen
of the islands; that, upon the other hand, no minister of religion shall be interfered with
or molested in following his calling, and that the separation between State and Church shall
be real, entire, and absolute.

It will be the duty of the Commission to promote and extend, and, as they find occasion, to
improve the system of education already inaugurated by the military authorities. In doing this
they should regard as of first importance the extension of a system of primary education which
shall be free to all, and which shall tend to fit the people for the duties of citizenship
and for the ordinary avocations of a civilized community. This instruction should be given
in the first instance in every part of the islands in the language of the people. In view of
the great number of languages spoken by the different tribes, it is especially important to
the prosperity of the islands that a common medium of communication may be established, and
it is obviously desirable that this medium should be the English language. Especial attention
should be at once given to affording full opportunity to all the people of the islands to acquire
the use of the English language.

It may be well that the main changes which should be made in the system of taxation and in
the body of the laws under which the people are governed, except such changes as have already
been made by the military government, should be relegated to the civil government which is
to be established under the auspices of the Commission. It will, however, be the duty of the
Commission to inquire diligently as to whether there are any further changes which ought not
to be delayed, and if so, they are authorized to make such changes subject to your approval.
In doing so they are to bear in mind that taxes which tend 6 penalize or repress industry and
enterprise are to be avoided; that provisions for taxation should be simple, so that they may
be understood by the people; that they should affect the fewest practicable subjects of taxation
which will serve for the general distribution of the burden.

The main body of the laws which regulate the rights and obligations of the people should be
maintained with as little interference as possible. Changes made should be mainly in procedure,
and in the criminal laws to secure speedy and impartial trials, and at the same time effective
administration and respect for individual rights.

In dealing with the uncivilized tribes of the islands the Commission should adopt the same
course followed by Congress in permitting the tribes of our North American Indians to maintain
their tribal organization and government, and under which many of those tribes are now living
in peace and contentment, surrounded by a civilization to which they are unable or unwilling
to conform. Such tribal governments should, however, be subjected to wise and firm regulation,
and, without undue or petty interference, constant and active effort should be exercised to
prevent barbarous practices and introduce civilized customs.

Upon all officers and employees of the United States, both civil and military, should be impressed
a sense of the duty to observe not merely the material but the personal and social rights of
the people of the islands, and to treat them with the same courtesy and respect for their personal
dignity which the people of the United States are accustomed W require from each other.

The articles of capitulation of the city of Manila on the 13th of August, 1898, concluded with
these words:

"This city, its inhabitants, its churches and religious worship, its educational establishments,
and its private property of all descriptions, are placed under the special safeguard of the
faith and honor of the American Army."

I believe that this pledge has been faithfully kept. As high and sacred an obligation rests
upon the Government of the United States to give protection for property and life, civil and
religious freedom, and wise, firm, and unselfish guidance in the paths of peace and prosperity
to all the people of the Philippine Islands. I charge this Commission to labor for the full
performance of this obligation, which concerns the honor and conscience of their country, in
the firm hope that through their labors all the inhabitants of the Philippine Islands may come
to look back with gratitude to the day when God gave victory to American arms at Manila and
set their land under the sovereignty and the protection of the people of the United States.

Coincidently with the entrance of the Commission upon its labors I caused to be issued by General
MacArthur, the Military Governor of the Philippines, on June 21, 1900, a proclamation of amnesty
in generous terms, of which many of the insurgents took advantage, among them a number of important
leaders.

This Commission, composed of eminent citizens representing the diverse geographical and political
interests of the country, and bringing to their task the ripe fruits of long and intelligent
service in educational, administrative, and judicial careers, made great progress from the
outset. As early as August 21, 1900, it submitted a preliminary report, which will be laid
before the Congress, and from which it appears that already the good effects of returning order
are felt; that business, interrupted by hostilities, is improving as peace extends; that a
larger area is under sugar cultivation than ever before; that the customs revenues are greater
than at any time during the Spanish rule; that economy and efficiency in the military administration
have created a surplus fund of $6,000,000, available for needed public improvements; that a
stringent civil-service law is in preparation; that railroad communications are expanding,
opening up rich districts, and that a comprehensive scheme of education is being organized.

Later reports from the Commission show yet more encouraging advance toward insuring the benefits
of liberty and good government to the Filipinos, in the interest of humanity and with the aim
of building up an enduring, self-supporting, and self-administering community in those far
eastern seas. I would impress upon the Congress that whatever legislation may be enacted in
respect to the Philippine Islands should be along these generous lines. The fortune of war
has thrown upon this nation an unsought trust which should be unselfishly discharged, and devolved
upon this Government a moral as well as material responsibility toward these millions whom
we have freed from an oppressive yoke.

I have on another occasion called the Filipinos the wards of the nation. Our obligation as
guardian was not lightly assumed; it must not be otherwise than honestly fulfilled, aiming
first of all to benefit those who have come under our fostering care. It is our duty so to
treat them that our flag may be no less beloved in the mountains of Luzon and the fertile zones
of Mindanao and Negros than it is at home, that there as here it shall be the revered symbol
of liberty, enlightenment, and progress in every avenue of development.

The Filipinos are a race quick to learn and to profit by knowledge He would be rash who, with
the teachings of contemporaneous history in view, would fix a limit to the degree of culture
and advancement yet within the reach of these people if our duty toward them be faithfully
performed.

The civil government of Puerto Rico provided for by the act of the Congress approved April
12, 1900 is in successful operation The courts have been established. The Governor and his
associates, working intelligently and harmoniously, are meeting with Commendable success.

On the 6th of November a general election was held in the island for members of the Legislature,
and the body elected has been called to convene on the first Monday of December.

I recommend that legislation be enacted by the Congress conferring upon the Secretary of the
Interior supervision over the public lands in Puerto Rico, and that he be directed to ascertain
the location and quantity of lands the title to which remained in the Crown of Spain at the
date of cession of Puerto Rico to the United States, and that appropriations necessary for
surveys be made, and that the methods of the disposition of such lands be prescribed by law.

On the 25th of July, 1900, I directed that a call be issued for an election in Cuba for members
of a constitutional convention to frame a constitution as a basis for a stable and independent
government in the island. In pursuance thereof the Military Governor issued the following instructions:
Whereas the Congress of the United States, by its joint resolution of April 20, 1898, declared:

"That the people of the island of Cuba are, and of right ought to be, free and independent.

And whereas, the people of Cuba have established municipal governments, deriving their authority
from the suffrages of the people given under just and equal laws, and are now ready, in like
manner, to proceed to the establishment of a general government which shall assume and exercise
sovereignty, jurisdiction, and control over the island:

Therefore, it is ordered that a general election be held in the island of Cuba on the third
Saturday of September, in the year nineteen hundred, to elect delegates to a convention to
meet in the city of Havana at twelve o'clock noon on the first Monday of November, in the year
nineteen hundred, to frame and adopt a constitution for the people of Cuba, and as a part thereof
to provide for and agree with the Government of the United States upon the relations to exist
between that Government and the Government of Cuba, and to provide for the election by the
people of officers under such constitution and the transfer of government to the officers so
elected.

The election will be held in the several voting precincts of the island under, and pursuant
to, the provisions of the electoral law of April 18, 1900, and the amendments thereof. The
election was held on the 15th of September, and the convention assembled on the 5th of November,
1900, and is now in session.

In calling the convention to order, the Military Governor of Cuba made the following statement:
As Military Governor of the island, representing the President of the United States, I call
this convention to order.

It will be your duty, first, to frame and adopt a constitution for Cuba, and when that has
been done to formulate what in your opinion ought to be the relations between Cuba and the
United States.

The constitution must be adequate to secure a stable, orderly, and free government.

When you have formulated the relations which in your opinion ought to exist between Cuba and
the United States the Government of the United States will doubtless take such action on its
part as shall lead to a final and authoritative agreement between the people of the two countries
to the promotion of their common interests.

All friends of Cuba will follow your deliberations with the deepest interest, earnestly desiring
that you shall reach just conclusions, and that by the dignity, individual self-restraint,
and wise conservatism which shall characterize your proceedings the capacity of the Cuban people
for representative government may be signally illustrated.

The fundamental distinction between true representative government and dictatorship is that
in the former every representative of the people, in whatever office, confines himself strictly
within the limits of his defined powers. Without such restraint there can be no free constitutional
government.

Under the order pursuant to which you have been elected and convened you have no duty and no
authority to take part in the present government of the island. Your powers are strictly limited
by the terms of that order. When the convention concludes its labors I will transmit to the
Congress the constitution as framed by the convention for its consideration and for such action
as it may deem advisable.

I renew the recommendation made in my special message of February 10, 1899, as to the necessity
for cable communication between the United States and Hawaii, with extension to Manila. Since
then circumstances have strikingly emphasized this need. Surveys have shown the entire feasibility
of a chain of cables which at each stopping place shall touch on American territory, so that
the system shall be under our own complete control. Manila once within telegraphic reach, connection
with the systems of the Asiatic coast would open increased and profitable opportunities for
a more direct cable route from our shores to the Orient than is now afforded by the trans-Atlantic,
continental, and trans-Asian lines. I urge attention to this important matter.

The present strength of the Army is 100,000 men--65,000 regulars and 35,000 volunteers. Under
the act of March 2, 1899, on the 30th of June next the present volunteer force will be discharged
and the Regular Army will be reduced to 2,447 officers and 29,025 enlisted men.

In 1888 a Board of Officers convened by President Cleveland adopted a comprehensive scheme
of coast-defense fortifications which involved the outlay of something over one hundred million
dollars. This plan received the approval of the Congress, and since then regular appropriations
have been made and the work of fortification has steadily progressed.

More than sixty millions of dollars have been invested in a great number of forts and guns,
with all the complicated and scientific machinery and electrical appliances necessary for their
use. The proper care of this defensive machinery requires men trained in its use. The number
of men necessary to perform this duty alone is ascertained by the War Department, at a minimum
allowance, to be 18,420.

There are fifty-eight or more military posts in the United States other than the coast-defense
fortifications.

The number of these posts is being constantly increased by the Congress. More than $22,000,000
have been expended in building and equipment, and they can only be cared for by the Regular
Army. The posts now in existence and others to be built provide for accommodations for, and
if fully garrisoned require, 26,000 troops. Many of these posts are along our frontier or at
important strategic points, the occupation of which is necessary.

We have in Cuba between 5,000 and 6,000 troops. For the present our troops in that island cannot
be withdrawn or materially diminished, and certainly not until the conclusion of the labors
of the constitutional convention now in session and a government provided by the new constitution
shall have been established and its stability assured.

In Puerto Rico we have reduced the garrisons to 1,636, which includes 879 native troops. There
is no room for further reduction here.

We will be required to keep a considerable force in the Philippine Islands for some time to
come. From the best information obtainable we will need there for the immediate future from
45,000 to 60,000 men. I am sure the number may be reduced as the insurgents shall come to acknowledge
the authority of the United States, of which there are assuring indications.

It must be apparent that we will require an army of about 60,000, and that during present conditions
in Cuba and the Philippines the President should have authority to increase the force to the
present number of 100,000. Included in this number authority should be given to raise native
troops in the Philippines up to 15,000, which the Taft Commission believe will be more effective
in detecting and suppressing guerrillas, assassins, and ladrones than our own soldiers.

The full discussion of this subject by the Secretary of War in his annual report is called
to your earnest attention.

I favor the recommendation of the Secretary of War for the detail oil officers from the line
of the Army when vacancies occur in the Adjutant-General's Department, Inspector-General's
Department, Quartermaster's Department, Subsistence Department, Pay Department, Ordnance Department,
and Signal Corps.

The Army cannot be too highly commended for its faithful and effective service in active military
operations in the field and the difficult work of civil administration.

The continued and rapid growth of the postal service is a sure index of the great and increasing
business activity of the country. Its most striking new development is the extension of rural
free delivery. This has come almost wholly within the last year. At the beginning of the fiscal
year 1899, 1900 the number of routes in operation was only 391, and most of these had been
running less than twelve months. On the 15th of November, 1900, the number had increased to
2,614, reaching into forty-four States and Territories, and serving a population of 1,801,524.
The number of applications now pending and awaiting action nearly equals all those granted
up to the present time, and by the close of the current fiscal year about 4,000 routes will
have been established, providing for the daily delivery of mails at the scattered homes of
about three and a half millions of rural population.

This service ameliorates the isolation of farm life, conduces to good roads, and quickens and
extends the dissemination of general information. Experience thus far has tended to allay the
apprehension that it would be so expensive as to forbid its general adoption or make it a serious
burden. Its actual application has shown that it increases postal receipts, and can be accompanied
by reductions in other branches of the service, so that the augmented revenues and the accomplished
savings together materially reduce the net cost. The evidences which point to these conclusions
are presented in detail in the annual report of the Postmaster-General, which with its recommendations
is commended to the consideration of the Congress. The full development of this special service,
however, requires such a large outlay of money that it should be undertaken only after a careful
study and thorough understanding of all that it involves.

Very efficient service has been rendered by the Navy in connection with the insurrection in
the Philippines and the recent disturbance in China.

A very satisfactory settlement has been made of the long-pending question of the manufacture
of armor plate. A reasonable price has been secured and the necessity for a Government armor
plant avoided.

I approve of the recommendations of the Secretary for new vessels and for additional officers
and men which the required increase of the Navy makes necessary. I commend to the favorable
action of the Congress the measure now pending for the erection of a statue to the memory of
the late Admiral David D. Porter. I commend also the establishment of a national naval reserve
and of the grade of vice-admiral. Provision should be made, as recommended by the Secretary,
for suitable rewards for special merit. Many officers who rendered the most distinguished service
during the recent war with Spain have received in return no recognition from the Congress.

The total area of public lands as given by the Secretary of the Interior is approximately 1,071,881,662
acres, of which 917,135,880 acres are undisposed of and 154,745,782 acres have been reserved
for various purposes. The public lands disposed of during the year amount to 13,453,887.96
acres, including 62,423.09 acres of Indian lands, an increase Of 4,271,474.80 over the preceding
year. The total receipts from the sale of public lands during the fiscal year were $4,379,758.10,
an increase of $1,309,620.76 over the preceding year.

The results obtained from our forest policy have demonstrated its wisdom and the necessity
in the interest of the public for its continuance and increased appropriations by the Congress
for the carrying on of the work.

During the past year the Olympic Reserve, in the State of Washington, was reduced 265,040 acres,
leaving its present area at 1,923,840 acres. The Prescott Reserve, in Arizona, was increased
from 10,240 acres to 423,680 acres, and the Big Horn Reserve, in Wyoming, was increased from
1,127,680 acres to 1,180,800 acres. A new reserve; the Santa Ynez, in California, embracing
an area of 145,000 acres, was created during this year. On October 10, 1900, the Crow Creek
Forest Reserve, in Wyoming, was created, with an area of 56,320 acres.

At the end of the fiscal year there were on the pension roll 993,529 names, a net increase
Of 2,010 over the fiscal year 1899. The number added to the rolls during the year was 45,344.
The amount disbursed for Army pensions during the year was $134,700,597.24 and for Navy pensions
$3,761,533.41, a total of $138,462,130.65, leaving an unexpended balance of $5,542,768.25 to
be covered into the Treasury, which shows an increase over the previous year's expenditure
Of $107,077.70.

The act of May 9, 1900, among other things provides for an extension of income to widows pensioned
under said act to $250 per annum. The Secretary of the Interior believes that by the operations
of this act the number of persons pensioned under it will increase and the increased annual
payment for pensions will be between $3,000,000 and $4,000,000.

The Government justly appreciates the services of its soldiers and sailors by making pension
payments liberal beyond precedent to them, their widows and orphans.

There were 26,540 letters patent granted, including reissues and designs, during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1900; 1,660 trademarks, 682 labels, and 93 prints registered. The number
of patents which expired was 19,988. The total receipts for patents were $1,358,228.35. The
expenditures were $1,247,827.58, showing a surplus Of $110,400.77

The attention of the Congress is called to the report of the Secretary of the Interior touching
the necessity for the further establishment of schools in the Territory of Alaska, and favorable
action is invited thereon.

Much interesting information is given in the report of the Governor of Hawaii as to the progress
and development of the islands during the period from July 7, 1898, the date of the approval
of the joint resolution of the Congress providing for their annexation, up to April 30, 1900,
the date of the approval of the act providing a government for the Territory, and thereafter.

The last Hawaiian census, taken in the year 1896, gives a total population of 109,020, Of Which
31,019 were native Hawaiians. The number of Americans reported was 8,485. The results of the
Federal census, taken this year, show the islands to have a total population Of 154,001, showing
an increase over that reported in 1896 of 44,981, or 41.2 per cent.

There has been marked progress in the educational, agricultural, and railroad development of
the islands.

In the Territorial act of April 30, 1900, section 7 of said act repeals Chapter 34 Of the Civil
Laws of Hawaii whereby the Government was to assist in encouraging and developing the agricultural
resources of the Republic, especially irrigation. The Governor of Hawaii recommends legislation
looking to the development of such water supply as may exist on the public lands, with a view
of promoting land settlement. The earnest consideration of the Congress is invited to this
important recommendation and others, as embodied in the report of the Secretary of the Interior.

The Director of the Census states that the work in connection with the Twelfth Census is progressing
favorably. This national undertaking, ordered by the Congress each decade, has finally resulted
in the collection of an aggregation of statistical facts to determine the industrial growth
of the country, its manufacturing and mechanical resources, its richness in mines and forests,
the number of its agriculturists, their farms and products, its educational and religious opportunities,
as well as questions pertaining to sociological conditions.

The labors of the officials in charge of the Bureau indicate that the four important and most
desired subjects, namely, population, agricultural, manufacturing, and vital statistics, will
be completed within the limit prescribed by the law of March 3, 1899.

The field work incident to the above inquiries is now practically finished, and as a result
the population of the States and Territories, including the Hawaiian Islands and Alaska, has
been announced. The growth of population during the last decade amounts to over 13,000,000,
a greater numerical increase than in any previous census in the history of the country.

Bulletins will be issued as rapidly as possible giving the population by States and Territories,
by minor civil divisions. Several announcements of this kind have already been made, and it
is hoped that the list will be completed by January 1. Other bulletins giving the results of
the manufacturing and agricultural inquiries will be given to the public as rapidly as circumstances
will admit.

The Director, while confident of his ability to complete the different branches of the undertaking
in the allotted time, finds himself embarrassed by the lack of a trained force properly equipped
for statistical work, thus raising the question whether in the interest of economy and a thorough
execution of the census work there should not be retained in the Government employ a certain
number of experts not only to aid in the preliminary organization prior to the taking of the
decennial census, but in addition to have the advantage in the field and office work of the
Bureau of trained assistants to facilitate the early completion of this enormous undertaking.

I recommend that the Congress at its present session apportion representation among the several
States as provided by the Constitution.

The Department of Agriculture has been extending its work during the past year, reaching farther
for new varieties of seeds and plants; co-operating more fully with the States and Territories
in research along useful lines; making progress in meteorological work relating to lines of
wireless telegraphy and forecasts for ocean-going vessels; continuing inquiry as to animal
disease; looking into the extent and character of food adulteration; outlining plans for the
care, preservation, and intelligent harvesting of our woodlands; studying soils that producers
may cultivate with better knowledge of conditions, and helping to clothe desert places with
grasses suitable to our and regions. Our island possessions are being considered that their
peoples may be helped to produce the tropical products now so extensively brought into the
United States. Inquiry into methods of improving our roads has been active during the year;
help has been given to many localities, and scientific investigation of material in the States
and Territories has been inaugurated. Irrigation problems in our semiarid regions are receiving
careful and increased consideration.

An extensive exhibit at Paris of the products of agriculture has made the peoples of many countries
more familiar with the varied products of our fields and their comparative excellence.

The collection of statistics regarding our crops is being improved and sources of information
are being enlarged, to the end that producers may have the earliest advices regarding crop
conditions. There has never been a time when those for whom it was established have shown more
appreciation of the services of the Department.

In my annual message of December 5, 1898, I called attention to the necessity for some amendment
of the alien contract law.

That there may be secured the best service possible in the Philippine Islands, I have issued,
under date of November 30, 1900, the following order: The United States Civil Service Commission
is directed to render such assistance as may be practicable to the Civil Service Board, created
under the act of the United States Philippine Commission, for the establishment and maintenance
of an honest and efficient civil service in the Philippine Islands, and for that purpose to
conduct examinations for the civil service of the Philippine islands, upon the request of the
Civil Service Board of said islands, under such regulations as may be agreed upon by the said
Board and the said United States Civil Service Commission. The Civil Service Commission is
greatly embarrassed in its work for want of an adequate permanent force for clerical and other
assistance. Its needs are fully set forth in its report. I invite attention to the report,
and especially urge upon the Congress that this important bureau of the public service, which
passes upon the qualifications and character of so large a number of the officers and employees
of the Government, should be supported by all needed appropriations to secure promptness and
efficiency.

I am very much impressed with the statement made by the heads of all the Departments of the
urgent necessity of a hall of public records. In every departmental building in Washington,
so far as I am informed, the space for official records is not only exhausted, but the walls
of rooms are lined with shelves, the middle floor space of many rooms is filled with the cases,
and garrets and basements, which were never intended and are unfitted for their accommodation,
are crowded with them. Aside from the inconvenience there is great danger, not only from fire,
but from the weight of these records upon timbers not intended for their support. There should
be a separate building especially designed for the purpose of receiving and preserving the
annually accumulating archives of the several Executive Departments. Such a hall need not be
a costly structure, but should be so arranged as to admit of enlargement from time to time.
I urgently recommend that the Congress take early action in this matter.

I transmit to the Congress a resolution adopted at a recent meeting of the American Bar Association
concerning the proposed celebration of John Marshall Day, February 4, 1901. Fitting exercises
have been arranged, and it is earnestly desired by the committee that the Congress may participate
in this movement to honor the memory of the great jurist.

The transfer of the Government to this city is a fact of great historical interest. Among the
people there is a feeling of genuine pride in the Capital of the Republic.

It is a matter of interest in this connection that in 1800 the population of the District of
Columbia was 14,093; to-day it is 278,718. The population of the city of Washington was then
3,210; to-day it is 218,196.

The Congress having provided for "an appropriate national celebration of the Centennial Anniversary
of the Establishment of the Seat of the Government in the District of Columbia," the committees
authorized by it have prepared a programme for the 12th of December, 1900, which date has been
selected as the anniversary day. Deep interest has been shown in the arrangements for the celebration
by the members of the committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, the committee
of Governors appointed by the President, and the committees appointed by the citizens and inhabitants
of the District of Columbia generally. The programme, in addition to a reception and other
exercises at the Executive Mansion, provides commemorative exercises to be held jointly by
the Senate and House of Representatives in the Hall of the House of Representatives, and a
reception in the evening at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in honor of the Governors of the States
and Territories.

In our great prosperity we must guard against the danger it invites of extravagance in Government
expenditures and appropriations; and the chosen representatives of the people will, I doubt
not, furnish an example in their legislation of that wise economy which in a season of plenty
husbands for the future. In this era of great business activity and opportunity caution is
not untimely. It will not abate, but strengthen, confidence. It will not retard, but promote,
legitimate industrial and commercial expansion. Our growing power brings with it temptations
and perils requiring constant vigilance to avoid. It must not be used to invite conflicts,
nor for oppression, but for the more effective maintenance of those principles of equality
and justice upon which our institutions and happiness depend. Let us keep always in mind that
the foundation of our Government is liberty; its superstructure peace.

***

State of the Union Address Theodore Roosevelt December 3, 1901

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

The Congress assembles this year under the shadow of a great calamity. On the sixth of September,
President McKinley was shot by an anarchist while attending the Pan-American Exposition at
Buffalo, and died in that city on the fourteenth of that month.

Of the last seven elected Presidents, he is the third who has been murdered, and the bare recital
of this fact is sufficient to justify grave alarm among all loyal American citizens. Moreover,
the circumstances of this, the third assassination of an American President, have a peculiarly
sinister significance. Both President Lincoln and President Garfield were killed by assassins
of types unfortunately not uncommon in history; President Lincoln falling a victim to the terrible
passions aroused by four years of civil war, and President Garfield to the revengeful vanity
of a disappointed office-seeker. President McKinley was killed by an utterly depraved criminal
belonging to that body of criminals who object to all governments, good and bad alike, who
are against any form of popular liberty if it is guaranteed by even the most just and liberal
laws, and who are as hostile to the upright exponent of a free people's sober will as to the
tyrannical and irresponsible despot.

It is not too much to say that at the time of President McKinley's death he was the most widely
loved man in all the United States; while we have never had any public man of his position
who has been so wholly free from the bitter animosities incident to public life. His political
opponents were the first to bear the heartiest and most generous tribute to the broad kindliness
of nature, the sweetness and gentleness of character which so endeared him to his close associates.
To a standard of lofty integrity in public life he united the tender affections and home virtues
which are all-important in the make-up of national character. A gallant soldier in the great
war for the Union, he also shone as an example to all our people because of his conduct in
the most sacred and intimate of home relations. There could be no personal hatred of him, for
he never acted with aught but consideration for the welfare of others. No one could fail to
respect him who knew him in public or private life. The defenders of those murderous criminals
who seek to excuse their criminality by asserting that it is exercised for political ends,
inveigh against wealth and irresponsible power. But for this assassination even this base apology
cannot be urged.

President McKinley was a man of moderate means, a man whose stock sprang from the sturdy tillers
of the soil, who had himself belonged among the wage-workers, who had entered the Army as a
private soldier. Wealth was not struck at when the President was assassinated, but the honest
toil which is content with moderate gains after a lifetime of unremitting labor, largely in
the service of the public. Still less was power struck at in the sense that power is irresponsible
or centered in the hands of any one individual. The blow was not aimed at tyranny or wealth.
It was aimed at one of the strongest champions the wage-worker has ever had; at one of the
most faithful representatives of the system of public rights and representative government
who has ever risen to public office. President McKinley filled that political office for which
the entire people vote, and no President not even Lincoln himself--was ever more earnestly
anxious to represent the well thought-out wishes of the people; his one anxiety in every crisis
was to keep in closest touch with the people--to find out what they thought and to endeavor
to give expression to their thought, after having endeavored to guide that thought aright.
He had just been reelected to the Presidency because the majority of our citizens, the majority
of our farmers and wage-workers, believed that he had faithfully upheld their interests for
four years. They felt themselves in close and intimate touch with him. They felt that he represented
so well and so honorably all their ideals and aspirations that they wished him to continue
for another four years to represent them.

And this was the man at whom the assassin struck That there might be nothing lacking to complete
the Judas-like infamy of his act, he took advantage of an occasion when the President was meeting
the people generally; and advancing as if to take the hand out-stretched to him in kindly and
brotherly fellowship, he turned the noble and generous confidence of the victim into an opportunity
to strike the fatal blow. There is no baser deed in all the annals of crime.

The shock, the grief of the country, are bitter in the minds of all who saw the dark days,
while the President yet hovered between life and death. At last the light was stilled in the
kindly eyes and the breath went from the lips that even in mortal agony uttered no words save
of forgiveness to his murderer, of love for his friends, and of faltering trust in the will
of the Most High. Such a death, crowning the glory of such a life, leaves us with infinite
sorrow, but with such pride in what he had accomplished and in his own personal character,
that we feel the blow not as struck at him, but as struck at the Nation We mourn a good and
great President who is dead; but while we mourn we are lifted up by the splendid achievements
of his life and the grand heroism with which he met his death.

When we turn from the man to the Nation, the harm done is so great as to excite our gravest
apprehensions and to demand our wisest and most resolute action. This criminal was a professed
anarchist, inflamed by the teachings of professed anarchists, and probably also by the reckless
utterances of those who, on the stump and in the public press, appeal to the dark and evil
spirits of malice and greed, envy and sullen hatred. The wind is sowed by the men who preach
such doctrines, and they cannot escape their share of responsibility for the whirlwind that
is reaped. This applies alike to the deliberate demagogue, to the exploiter of sensationalism,
and to the crude and foolish visionary who, for whatever reason, apologizes for crime or excites
aimless discontent.

The blow was aimed not at this President, but at all Presidents; at every symbol of government.
President McKinley was as emphatically the embodiment of the popular will of the Nation expressed
through the forms of law as a New England town meeting is in similar fashion the embodiment
of the law-abiding purpose and practice of the people of the town. On no conceivable theory
could the murder of the President be accepted as due to protest against "inequalities in the
social order," save as the murder of all the freemen engaged in a town meeting could be accepted
as a protest against that social inequality which puts a malefactor in jail. Anarchy is no
more an expression of "social discontent" than picking pockets or wife-beating.

The anarchist, and especially the anarchist in the United States, is merely one type of criminal,
more dangerous than any other because he represents the same depravity in a greater degree.
The man who advocates anarchy directly or indirectly, in any shape or fashion, or the man who
apologizes for anarchists and their deeds, makes himself morally accessory to murder before
the fact. The anarchist is a criminal whose perverted instincts lead him to prefer confusion
and chaos to the most beneficent form of social order. His protest of concern for workingmen
is outrageous in its impudent falsity; for if the political institutions of this country do
not afford opportunity to every honest and intelligent son of toil, then the door of hope is
forever closed against him. The anarchist is everywhere not merely the enemy of system and
of progress, but the deadly foe of liberty. If ever anarchy is triumphant, its triumph will
last for but one red moment, to be succeeded, for ages by the gloomy night of despotism.

For the anarchist himself, whether he preaches or practices his doctrines, we need not have
one particle more concern than for any ordinary murderer. He is not the victim of social or
political injustice. There are no wrongs to remedy in his case. The cause of his criminality
is to be found in his own evil passions and in the evil conduct of those who urge him on, not
in any failure by others or by the State to do justice to him or his. He is a malefactor and
nothing else. He is in no sense, in no shape or way, a "product of social conditions," save
as a highwayman is "produced" by the fact than an unarmed man happens to have a purse. It is
a travesty upon the great and holy names of liberty and freedom to permit them to be invoked
in such a cause. No man or body of men preaching anarchistic doctrines should be allowed at
large any more than if preaching the murder of some specified private individual. Anarchistic
speeches, writings, and meetings are essentially seditious and treasonable.

I earnestly recommend to the Congress that in the exercise of its wise discretion it should
take into consideration the coming to this country of anarchists or persons professing principles
hostile to all government and justifying the murder of those placed in authority. Such individuals
as those who not long ago gathered in open meeting to glorify the murder of King Humbert of
Italy perpetrate a crime, and the law should ensure their rigorous punishment. They and those
like them should be kept out of this country; and if found here they should be promptly deported
to the country whence they came; and far-reaching provision should be made for the punishment
of those who stay. No matter calls more urgently for the wisest thought of the Congress.

The Federal courts should be given jurisdiction over any man who kills or attempts to kill
the President or any man who by the Constitution or by law is in line of succession for the
Presidency, while the punishment for an unsuccessful attempt should be proportioned to the
enormity of the offense against our institutions.

Anarchy is a crime against the whole human race; and all mankind should band against the anarchist.
His crime should be made an offense against the law of nations, like piracy and that form of
man-stealing known as the slave trade; for it is of far blacker infamy than either. It should
be so declared by treaties among all civilized powers. Such treaties would give to the Federal
Government the power of dealing with the crime.

A grim commentary upon the folly of the anarchist position was afforded by the attitude of
the law toward this very criminal who had just taken the life of the President. The people
would have torn him limb from limb if it had not been that the law he defied was at once invoked
in his behalf. So far from his deed being committed on behalf of the people against the Government,
the Government was obliged at once to exert its full police power to save him from instant
death at the hands of the people. Moreover, his deed worked not the slightest dislocation in
our governmental system, and the danger of a recurrence of such deeds, no matter how great
it might grow, would work only in the direction of strengthening and giving harshness to the
forces of order. No man will ever be restrained from becoming President by any fear as to his
personal safety. If the risk to the President's life became great, it would mean that the office
would more and more come to be filled by men of a spirit which would make them resolute and
merciless in dealing with every friend of disorder. This great country will not fall into anarchy,
and if anarchists should ever become a serious menace to its institutions, they would not merely
be stamped out, but would involve in their own ruin every active or passive sympathizer with
their doctrines. The American people are slow to wrath, but when their wrath is once kindled
it burns like a consuming flame.

During the last five years business confidence has been restored, and the nation is to be congratulated
because of its present abounding prosperity. Such prosperity can never be created by law alone,
although it is easy enough to destroy it by mischievous laws. If the hand of the Lord is heavy
upon any country, if flood or drought comes, human wisdom is powerless to avert the calamity.
Moreover, no law can guard us against the consequences of our own folly. The men who are idle
or credulous, the men who seek gains not by genuine work with head or hand but by gambling
in any form, are always a source of menace not only to themselves but to others. If the business
world loses its head, it loses what legislation cannot supply. Fundamentally the welfare of
each citizen, and therefore the welfare of the aggregate of citizens which makes the nation,
must rest upon individual thrift and energy, resolution, and intelligence. Nothing can take
the place of this individual capacity; but wise legislation and honest and intelligent administration
can give it the fullest scope, the largest opportunity to work to good effect.

The tremendous and highly complex industrial development which went on with ever accelerated
rapidity during the latter half of the nineteenth century brings us face to face, at the beginning
of the twentieth, with very serious social problems. The old laws, and the old customs which
had almost the binding force of law, were once quite sufficient to regulate the accumulation
and distribution of wealth. Since the industrial changes which have so enormously increased
the productive power of mankind, they are no longer sufficient.

The growth of cities has gone on beyond comparison faster than the growth of the country, and
the upbuilding of the great industrial centers has meant a startling increase, not merely in
the aggregate of wealth, but in the number of very large individual, and especially of very
large corporate, fortunes. The creation of these great corporate fortunes has not been due
to the tariff nor to any other governmental action, but to natural causes in the business world,
operating in other countries as they operate in our own.

The process has aroused much antagonism, a great part of which is wholly without warrant. It
is not true that as the rich have grown richer the poor have grown poorer. On the contrary,
never before has the average man, the wage-worker, the farmer, the small trader, been so well
off as in this country and at the present time. There have been abuses connected with the accumulation
of wealth; yet it remains true that a fortune accumulated in legitimate business can be accumulated
by the person specially benefited only on condition of conferring immense incidental benefits
upon others. Successful enterprise, of the type which benefits all mankind, can only exist
if the conditions are such as to offer great prizes as the rewards of success.

The captains of industry who have driven the railway systems across this continent, who have
built up our commerce, who have developed our manufactures, have on the whole done great good
to our people. Without them the material development of which we are so justly proud could
never have taken place. Moreover, we should recognize the immense importance of this material
development of leaving as unhampered as is compatible with the public good the strong and forceful
men upon whom the success of business operations inevitably rests. The slightest study of business
conditions will satisfy anyone capable of forming a judgment that the personal equation is
the most important factor in a business operation; that the business ability of the man at
the head of any business concern, big or little, is usually the factor which fixes the gulf
between striking success and hopeless failure.

An additional reason for caution in dealing with corporations is to be found in the international
commercial conditions of to-day. The same business conditions which have produced the great
aggregations of corporate and individual wealth have made them very potent factors in international
Commercial competition. Business concerns which have the largest means at their disposal and
are managed by the ablest men are naturally those which take the lead in the strife for commercial
supremacy among the nations of the world. America has only just begun to assume that commanding
position in the international business world which we believe will more and more be hers. It
is of the utmost importance that this position be not jeoparded, especially at a time when
the overflowing abundance of our own natural resources and the skill, business energy, and
mechanical aptitude of our people make foreign markets essential. Under such conditions it
would be most unwise to cramp or to fetter the youthful strength of our Nation.

Moreover, it cannot too often be pointed out that to strike with ignorant violence at the interests
of one set of men almost inevitably endangers the interests of all. The fundamental rule in
our national life--the rule which underlies all others--is that, on the whole, and in the long
run, we shall go up or down together. There are exceptions; and in times of prosperity some
will prosper far more, and in times of adversity, some will suffer far more, than others; but
speaking generally, a period of good times means that all share more or less in them, and in
a period of hard times all feel the stress to a greater or less degree. It surely ought not
to be necessary to enter into any proof of this statement; the memory of the lean years which
began in 1893 is still vivid, and we can contrast them with the conditions in this very year
which is now closing. Disaster to great business enterprises can never have its effects limited
to the men at the top. It spreads throughout, and while it is bad for everybody, it is worst
for those farthest down. The capitalist may be shorn of his luxuries; but the wage-worker may
be deprived of even bare necessities.

The mechanism of modern business is so delicate that extreme care must be taken not to interfere
with it in a spirit of rashness or ignorance. Many of those who have made it their vocation
to denounce the great industrial combinations which are popularly, although with technical
inaccuracy, known as "trusts," appeal especially to hatred and fear. These are precisely the
two emotions, particularly when combined with ignorance, which unfit men for the exercise of
cool and steady judgment. In facing new industrial conditions, the whole history of the world
shows that legislation will generally be both unwise and ineffective unless undertaken after
calm inquiry and with sober self-restraint. Much of the legislation directed at the trusts
would have been exceedingly mischievous had it not also been entirely ineffective. In accordance
with a well-known sociological law, the ignorant or reckless agitator has been the really effective
friend of the evils which he has been nominally opposing. In dealing with business interests,
for the Government to undertake by crude and ill-considered legislation to do what may turn
out to be bad, would be to incur the risk of such far-reaching national disaster that it would
be preferable to undertake nothing at all. The men who demand the impossible or the undesirable
serve as the allies of the forces with which they are nominally at war, for they hamper those
who would endeavor to find out in rational fashion what the wrongs really are and to what extent
and in what manner it is practicable to apply remedies.

All this is true; and yet it is also true that there are real and grave evils, one of the chief
being over-capitalization because of its many baleful consequences; and a resolute and practical
effort must be made to correct these evils.

There is a widespread conviction in the minds of the American people that the great corporations
known as trusts are in certain of their features and tendencies hurtful to the general welfare.
This springs from no spirit of envy or uncharitableness, nor lack of pride in the great industrial
achievements that have placed this country at the head of the nations struggling for commercial
supremacy. It does not rest upon a lack of intelligent appreciation of the necessity of meeting
changing and changed conditions of trade with new methods, nor upon ignorance of the fact that
combination of capital in the effort to accomplish great things is necessary when the world's
progress demands that great things be done. It is based upon sincere conviction that combination
and concentration should be, not prohibited, but supervised and within reasonable limits controlled;
and in my judgment this conviction is right.

It is no limitation upon property rights or freedom of contract to require that when men receive
from Government the privilege of doing business under corporate form, which frees them from
individual responsibility, and enables them to call into their enterprises the capital of the
public, they shall do so upon absolutely truthful representations as to the value of the property
in which the capital is to be invested. Corporations engaged in interstate commerce should
be regulated if they are found to exercise a license working to the public injury. It should
be as much the aim of those who seek for social betterment to rid the business world of crimes
of cunning as to rid the entire body politic of crimes of violence. Great corporations exist
only because they are created and safeguarded by our institutions; and it is therefore our
right and our duty to see that they work in harmony with these institutions.

The first essential in determining how to deal with the great industrial combinations is knowledge
of the facts--publicity. In the interest of the public, the Government should have the right
to inspect and examine the workings of the great corporations engaged in interstate business.
Publicity is the only sure remedy which we can now invoke. What further remedies are needed
in the way of governmental regulation, or taxation, can only be determined after publicity
has been obtained, by process of law, and in the course of administration. The first requisite
is knowledge, full and complete--knowledge which may be made public to the world.

Artificial bodies, such as corporations and joint stock or other associations, depending upon
any statutory law for their existence or privileges, should be subject to proper governmental
supervision, and full and accurate information as to their operations should be made public
regularly at reasonable intervals.

The large corporations, commonly called trusts, though organized in one State, always do business
in many States, often doing very little business in the State where they are incorporated.
There is utter lack of uniformity in the State laws about them; and as no State has any exclusive
interest in or power over their acts, it has in practice proved impossible to get adequate
regulation through State action. Therefore, in the interest of the whole people, the Nation
should, without interfering with the power of the States in the matter itself, also assume
power of supervision and regulation over all corporations doing an interstate business. This
is especially true where the corporation derives a portion of its wealth from the existence
of some monopolistic element or tendency in its business. There would be no hardship in such
supervision; banks are subject to it, and in their case it is now accepted as a simple matter
of course. Indeed, it is probable that supervision of corporations by the National Government
need not go so far as is now the case with the supervision exercised over them by so conservative
a State as Massachusetts, in order to produce excellent results.

When the Constitution was adopted, at the end of the eighteenth century, no human wisdom could
foretell the sweeping changes, alike in industrial and political conditions, which were to
take place by the beginning of the twentieth century. At that time it was accepted as a matter
of course that the several States were the proper authorities to regulate, so far as was then
necessary, the comparatively insignificant and strictly localized corporate bodies of the day.
The conditions are now wholly different and wholly different action is called for. I believe
that a law can be framed which will enable the National Government to exercise control along
the lines above indicated; profiting by the experience gained through the passage and administration
of the Interstate-Commerce Act. If, however, the judgment of the Congress is that it lacks
the constitutional power to pass such an act, then a constitutional amendment should be submitted
to confer the power.

There should be created a Cabinet officer, to be known as Secretary of Commerce and Industries,
as provided in the bill introduced at the last session of the Congress. It should be his province
to deal with commerce in its broadest sense; including among many other things whatever concerns
labor and all matters affecting the great business corporations and our merchant marine.

The course proposed is one phase of what should be a comprehensive and far-reaching scheme
of constructive statesmanship for the purpose of broadening our markets, securing our business
interests on a safe basis, and making firm our new position in the international industrial
world; while scrupulously safeguarding the rights of wage-worker and capitalist, of investor
and private citizen, so as to secure equity as between man and man in this Republic.

With the sole exception of the farming interest, no one matter is of such vital moment to our
whole people as the welfare of the wage-workers. If the farmer and the wage-worker are well
off, it is absolutely certain that all others will be well off too. It is therefore a matter
for hearty congratulation that on the whole wages are higher to-day in the United States than
ever before in our history, and far higher than in any other country. The standard of living
is also higher than ever before. Every effort of legislator and administrator should be bent
to secure the permanency of this condition of things and its improvement wherever possible.
Not only must our labor be protected by the tariff, but it should also be protected so far
as it is possible from the presence in this country of any laborers brought over by contract,
or of those who, coming freely, yet represent a standard of living so depressed that they can
undersell our men in the labor market and drag them to a lower level. I regard it as necessary,
with this end in view, to re-enact immediately the law excluding Chinese laborers and to strengthen
it wherever necessary in order to make its enforcement entirely effective.

The National Government should demand the highest quality of service from its employees; and
in return it should be a good employer. If possible legislation should be passed, in connection
with the Interstate Commerce Law, which will render effective the efforts of different States
to do away with the competition of convict contract labor in the open labor market. So far
as practicable under the conditions of Government work, provision should be made to render
the enforcement of the eight-hour law easy and certain. In all industries carried on directly
or indirectly for the United States Government women and children should be protected from
excessive hours of labor, from night work, and from work under unsanitary conditions. The Government
should provide in its contracts that all work should be done under "fair" conditions, and in
addition to setting a high standard should uphold it by proper inspection, extending if necessary
to the subcontractors. The Government should forbid all night work for women and children,
as well as excessive overtime. For the District of Columbia a good factory law should be passed;
and, as a powerful indirect aid to such laws, provision should be made to turn the inhabited
alleys, the existence of which is a reproach to our Capital city, into minor streets, where
the inhabitants can live under conditions favorable to health and morals.

American wage-workers work with their heads as well as their hands. Moreover, they take a keen
pride in what they are doing; so that, independent of the reward, they wish to turn out a perfect
job. This is the great secret of our success in competition with the labor of foreign countries.

The most vital problem with which this country, and for that matter the whole civilized world,
has to deal, is the problem which has for one side the betterment of social conditions, moral
and physical, in large cities, and for another side the effort to deal with that tangle of
far-reaching questions which we group together when we speak of "labor." The chief factor in
the success of each man--wage-worker, farmer, and capitalist alike--must ever be the sum total
of his own individual qualities and abilities. Second only to this comes the power of acting
in combination or association with others. Very great good has been and will be accomplished
by associations or unions of wage-workers, when managed with forethought, and when they combine
insistence upon their own rights with law-abiding respect for the rights of others. The display
of these qualities in such bodies is a duty to the nation no less than to the associations
themselves. Finally, there must also in many cases be action by the Government in order to
safeguard the rights and interests of all. Under our Constitution there is much more scope
for such action by the State and the municipality than by the nation. But on points such as
those touched on above the National Government can act.

When all is said and done, the rule of brotherhood remains as the indispensable prerequisite
to success in the kind of national life for which we strive. Each man must work for himself,
and unless he so works no outside help can avail him; but each man must remember also that
he is indeed his brother's keeper, and that while no man who refuses to walk can be carried
with advantage to himself or anyone else, yet that each at times stumbles or halts, that each
at times needs to have the helping hand outstretched to him. To be permanently effective, aid
must always take the form of helping a man to help himself; and we can all best help ourselves
by joining together in the work that is of common interest to all.

Our present immigration laws are unsatisfactory. We need every honest and efficient immigrant
fitted to become an American citizen, every immigrant who comes here to stay, who brings here
a strong body, a stout heart, a good head, and a resolute purpose to do his duty well in every
way and to bring up his children as law-abiding and God-fearing members of the community. But
there should be a comprehensive law enacted with the object of working a threefold improvement
over our present system. First, we should aim to exclude absolutely not only all persons who
are known to be believers in anarchistic principles or members of anarchistic societies, but
also all persons who are of a low moral tendency or of unsavory reputation. This means that
we should require a more thorough system of inspection abroad and a more rigid system of examination
at our immigration ports, the former being especially necessary.

The second object of a proper immigration law ought to be to secure by a careful and not merely
perfunctory educational test some intelligent capacity to appreciate American institutions
and act sanely as American citizens. This would not keep out all anarchists, for many of them
belong to the intelligent criminal class. But it would do what is also in point, that is, tend
to decrease the sum of ignorance, so potent in producing the envy, suspicion, malignant passion,
and hatred of order, out of which anarchistic sentiment inevitably springs. Finally, all persons
should be excluded who are below a certain standard of economic fitness to enter our industrial
field as competitors with American labor. There should be proper proof of personal capacity
to earn an American living and enough money to insure a decent start under American conditions.
This would stop the influx of cheap labor, and the resulting competition which gives rise to
so much of bitterness in American industrial life; and it would dry up the springs of the pestilential
social conditions in our great cities, where anarchistic organizations have their greatest
possibility of growth.

Both the educational and economic tests in a wise immigration law should be designed to protect
and elevate the general body politic and social. A very close supervision should be exercised
over the steamship companies which mainly bring over the immigrants, and they should be held
to a strict accountability for any infraction of the law.

There is general acquiescence in our present tariff system as a national policy. The first
requisite to our prosperity is the continuity and stability of this economic policy. Nothing
could be more unwise than to disturb the business interests of the country by any general tariff
change at this time. Doubt, apprehension, uncertainty are exactly what we most wish to avoid
in the interest of our commercial and material well-being. Our experience in the past has shown
that sweeping revisions of the tariff are apt to produce conditions closely approaching panic
in the business world. Yet it is not only possible, but eminently desirable, to combine with
the stability of our economic system a supplementary system of reciprocal benefit and obligation
with other nations. Such reciprocity is an incident and result of the firm establishment and
preservation of our present economic policy. It was specially provided for in the present tariff
law.

Reciprocity must be treated as the handmaiden of protection. Our first duty is to see that
the protection granted by the tariff in every case where it is needed is maintained, and that
reciprocity be sought for so far as it can safely be done without injury to our home industries.
Just how far this is must be determined according to the individual case, remembering always
that every application of our tariff policy to meet our shifting national needs must be conditioned
upon the cardinal fact that the duties must never be reduced below the point that will cover
the difference between the labor cost here and abroad. The well-being of the wage-worker is
a prime consideration of our entire policy of economic legislation.

Subject to this proviso of the proper protection necessary to our industrial well-being at
home, the principle of reciprocity must command our hearty support. The phenomenal growth of
our export trade emphasizes the urgency of the need for wider markets and for a liberal policy
in dealing with foreign nations. Whatever is merely petty and vexatious in the way of trade
restrictions should be avoided. The customers to whom we dispose of our surplus products in
the long run, directly or indirectly, purchase those surplus products by giving us something
in return. Their ability to purchase our products should as far as possible be secured by so
arranging our tariff as to enable us to take from them those products which we can use without
harm to our own industries and labor, or the use of which will be of marked benefit to us.

It is most important that we should maintain the high level of our present prosperity. We have
now reached the point in the development of our interests where we are not only able to supply
our own markets but to produce a constantly growing surplus for which we must find markets
abroad. To secure these markets we can utilize existing duties in any case where they are no
longer needed for the purpose of protection, or in any case where the article is not produced
here and the duty is no longer necessary for revenue, as giving us something to offer in exchange
for what we ask. The cordial relations with other nations which are so desirable will naturally
be promoted by the course thus required by our own interests.

The natural line of development for a policy of reciprocity will be in connection with those
of our productions which no longer require all of the support once needed to establish them
upon a sound basis, and with those others where either because of natural or of economic causes
we are beyond the reach of successful competition.

I ask the attention of the Senate to the reciprocity treaties laid before it by my predecessor.

The condition of the American merchant marine is such as to call for immediate remedial action
by the Congress. It is discreditable to us as a Nation that our merchant marine should be utterly
insignificant in comparison to that of other nations which we overtop in other forms of business.
We should not longer submit to conditions under which only a trifling portion of our great
commerce is carried in our own ships. To remedy this state of things would not .merely serve
to build up our shipping interests, but it would also result in benefit to all who are interested
in the permanent establishment of a wider market for American products, and would provide an
auxiliary force for the Navy. Ships work for their own countries just as railroads work for
their terminal points. Shipping lines, if established to the principal countries with which
we have dealings, would be of political as well as commercial benefit. From every standpoint
it is unwise for the United States to continue to rely upon the ships of competing nations
for the distribution of our goods. It should be made advantageous to carry American goods in
American-built ships.

At present American shipping is under certain great disadvantages when put in competition with
the shipping of foreign countries. Many of the fast foreign steamships, at a speed of fourteen
knots or above, are subsidized; and all our ships, sailing vessels and steamers alike, cargo
carriers of slow speed and mail carriers of high speed, have to meet the fact that the original
cost of building American ships is greater than is the case abroad; that the wages paid American
officers and seamen are very much higher than those paid the officers and seamen of foreign
competing countries; and that the standard of living on our ships is far superior to the standard
of living on the ships of our commercial rivals.

Our Government should take such action as will remedy these inequalities. The American merchant
marine should be restored to the ocean.

The Act of March 14, 1900, intended unequivocally to establish gold as the standard money and
to maintain at a parity therewith all forms of money medium in use with us, has been shown
to be timely and judicious. The price of our Government bonds in the world's market, when compared
with the price of similar obligations issued by other nations, is a flattering tribute to our
public credit. This condition it is evidently desirable to maintain.

In many respects the National Banking Law furnishes sufficient liberty for the proper exercise
of the banking function; but there seems to be need of better safeguards against the deranging
influence of commercial crises and financial panics. Moreover, the currency of the country
should be made responsive to the demands of our domestic trade and commerce.

The collections from duties on imports and internal taxes continue to exceed the ordinary expenditures
of the Government, thanks mainly to the reduced army expenditures. The utmost care should be
taken not to reduce the revenues so that there will be any possibility of a deficit; but, after
providing against any such contingency, means should be adopted which will bring the revenues
more nearly within the limit of our actual needs. In his report to the Congress the Secretary
of the Treasury considers all these questions at length, and I ask your attention to the report
and recommendations.

I call special attention to the need of strict economy in expenditures. The fact that our national
needs forbid us to be niggardly in providing whatever is actually necessary to our well-being,
should make us doubly careful to husband our national resources, as each of us husbands his
private resources, by scrupulous avoidance of anything like wasteful or reckless expenditure.
Only by avoidance of spending money on what is needless or unjustifiable can we legitimately
keep our income to the point required to meet our needs that are genuine.

In 1887 a measure was enacted for the regulation of interstate railways, commonly known as
the Interstate Commerce Act. The cardinal provisions of that act were that railway rates should
be just and reasonable and that all shippers, localities, and commodities should be accorded
equal treatment. A commission was created and endowed with what were supposed to be the necessary
powers to execute the provisions of this act. That law was largely an experiment. Experience
has shown the wisdom of its purposes, but has also shown, possibly that some of its requirements
are wrong, certainly that the means devised for the enforcement of its provisions are defective.
Those who complain of the management of the railways allege that established rates are not
maintained; that rebates and similar devices are habitually resorted to; that these preferences
are usually in favor of the large shipper; that they drive out of business the smaller competitor;
that while many rates are too low, many others are excessive; and that gross preferences are
made, affecting both localities and commodities. Upon the other hand, the railways assert that
the law by its very terms tends to produce many of these illegal practices by depriving carriers
of that right of concerted action which they claim is necessary to establish and maintain non-discriminating
rates.

