At length a great armourer arose in the Highlands, who was able to forge armour that would
resist the best Sheffield arrow-heads, and to make swords that would vie with the best weapons
of Toledo and Milan. This was the famous Andrea de Ferrara, whose swords still maintain their
ancient reputation.  This workman is supposed to have learnt his art in the Italian city after
which he was called, and returned to practise it in secrecy among the Highland hills.  Before
him, no man in Great Britain is said to have known how to temper a sword in such a way as to
bend so that the point should touch the hilt and spring back uninjured.  The swords of Andrea
de Ferrara did this, and were accordingly in great request; for it was of every importance
to the warrior that his weapon should be strong and sharp without being unwieldy, and that
it should not be liable to snap in the act of combat.  This celebrated smith, whose personal
identity[25] has become merged in the Andrea de Ferrara swords of his manufacture, pursued
his craft in the Highlands, where he employed a number of skilled workmen in forging weapons,
devoting his own time principally to giving them their required temper.  He is said to have
worked in a dark cellar, the better to enable him to perceive the effect of the heat upon the
metal, and to watch the nicety of the operation of tempering, as well as possibly to serve
as a screen to his secret method of working.[26] Long after Andrea de Ferrara's time, the Scotch
swords were famous for their temper; Judge Marshal Fatten, who accompanied the Protector's
expedition into Scotland in 1547, observing that "the Scots came with swords all broad and
thin, of exceeding good temper, and universally so made to slice that I never saw none so good,
so I think it hard to devise a better."  The quality of the steel used for weapons of war was
indeed of no less importance for the effectual defence of a country then than it is now.  The
courage of the attacking and defending forces being equal, the victory would necessarily rest
with the party in possession of the best weapons.

England herself has on more than one occasion been supposed to be in serious peril because
of the decay of her iron manufactures.  Before the Spanish Armada, the production of iron had
been greatly discouraged because of the destruction of timber in the smelting of the ore--the
art of reducing it with pit coal not having yet been invented; and we were consequently mainly
dependent upon foreign countries for our supplies of the material out of which arms were made.
The best iron came from Spain itself, then the most powerful nation in Europe, and as celebrated
for the excellence of its weapons as for the discipline and valour of its troops.  The Spaniards
prided themselves upon the superiority of their iron, and regarded its scarcity in England
as an important element in their calculations of the conquest of the country by their famous
Armada.  "I have heard," says Harrison, "that when one of the greatest peers of Spain espied
our nakedness in this behalf, and did solemnly utter in no obscure place, that it would be
an easy matter in short time to conquer England because it wanted armour, his words were not
so rashly uttered as politely noted."  The vigour of Queen Elizabeth promptly supplied a remedy
by the large importations of iron which she caused to be made, principally from Sweden, as
well as by the increased activity of the forges in Sussex and the Forest of Dean; "whereby,"
adds Harrison, "England obtained rest, that otherwise might have been sure of sharp and cruel
wars.  Thus a Spanish word uttered by one man at one time, overthrew, or at the leastwise hindered
sundry privy practices of many at another." [27]  Nor has the subject which occupied the earnest
attention of politicians in Queen Elizabeth's time ceased to be of interest; for, after the
lapse of nearly three hundred years, we find the smith and the iron manufacturer still uppermost
in public discussions.  It has of late years been felt that our much-prized "hearts of oak"
are no more able to stand against the prows of mail which were supposed to threaten them, than
the sticks and stones of the ancient tribes were able to resist the men armed with weapons
of bronze or steel.  What Solon said to Croesus, when the latter was displaying his great treasures
of gold, still holds true:--"If another comes that hath better iron than you, he will be master
of all that gold."  So, when an alchemist waited upon the Duke of Brunswick during the Seven
Years' War, and offered to communicate the secret of converting iron into gold, the Duke replied:--"By
no means:  I want all the iron I can find to resist my enemies:  as for gold, I get it from
England." Thus the strength and wealth of nations depend upon coal and iron, not forgetting
Men, far more than upon gold.

Thanks to our Armstrongs and Whitworths, our Browns and our Smiths, the iron defences of England,
manned by our soldiers and our sailors, furnish the assurance of continued security for our
gold and our wealth, and, what is infinitely more precious, for our industry and our liberty.

[2] THOMAS WRIGHT, F.S.A., The Celt, The Roman, and The Saxon, ed. 1861.

[3] Referred to at length in the Antiquity of Man, by Sir C. Lyell, who adopts M. Worsaae's
classification.

[4] Mr. Mushet, however, observes that "the general use of hardened copper by the ancients
for edge-tools and warlike instruments, does not preclude the supposition that iron was then
comparatively plentiful, though it is probable that it was confined to the ruder arts of life.
A knowledge of the mixture of copper, tin, and zinc, seems to have been among the first discoveries
of the metallurgist.  Instruments fabricated from these alloys, recommended by the use of ages,
the perfection of the art, the splendour and polish of their surfaces, not easily injured by
time and weather, would not soon be superseded by the invention of simple iron, inferior in
edge and polish, at all times easily injured by rust, and in the early stages of its manufacture
converted with difficulty into forms that required proportion or elegance."--(Papers on Iron
and Steel, 365-6.) By some secret method that has been lost, perhaps because no longer needed
since the invention of steel, the ancients manufactured bronze tools capable of taking a fine
edge.  In our own time, Chantrey the sculptor, in his reverence for classic metallurgy, had
a bronze razor made with which he martyred himself in shaving; but none were found so hardy
and devoted as to follow his example.

[5] It may be mentioned in passing, that while Zinc is fusible at 3 degrees of Wedgwood's pyrometer,
Silver at 22 degrees, Copper at 27 degrees, and Gold at 32 degrees, Cast Iron is only fusible
at 130 degrees.  Tin (one of the constituents of the ancient bronze) and Lead are fusible at
much lower degrees than zinc.

[6] The Romans named the other metals after the gods.  Thus Quicksilver was called Mercury,
Lead Saturn, Tin Jupiter, Copper Venus, Silver Luna, and so on; and our own language has received
a colouring from the Roman nomenclature, which it continues to retain.

[7] I. Samuel xiii. 19, 20.

[8] II. Kings xxiv. 16.

[9] Papers on Iron and Steel, 363-4.

[10] Dr. Livingstone brought with him to England a piece of the Zambesi iron, which he sent
to a skilled Birmingham blacksmith to test.  The result was, that he pronounced the metal as
strongly resembling Swedish or Russian; both of which kinds are smelted with charcoal.  The
African iron was found "highly carbonized," and "when chilled it possessed the properties of
steel."

[11] HOLINSHED, i. 517.  Iron was also the currency of the Spartans, but it has been used as
such in much more recent times.  Adam Smith, in his Wealth of Nations (Book I. ch.

[12] Primeval Antiquities of Denmark.  London, 1849, p. 140.

[13] See Dr. Pearson's paper in the Philosophical Transactions, 1796, relative to certain ancient
arms and utensils found in the river Witham between Kirkstead and Lincoln.

[14] "In the Forest of Dean and thereabouts the iron is made at this day of cinders, being
the rough and offal thrown by in the Roman time; they then having only foot-blasts to melt
the ironstone; but now, by the force of a great wheel that drives a pair of Bellows twenty
feet long, all that iron is extracted out of the cinders which could not be forced from it
by the Roman foot-blast.  And in the Forest of Dean and thereabouts, and as high as Worcester,
there ave great and infinite quantities of these cinders; some in vast mounts above ground,
some under ground, which will supply the iron works some hundreds of years; and these cinders
ave they which make the prime and best iron, and with much less charcoal than doth the ironstone."--A.
YARRANTON, England's Improvement by Sea and Land.  London, 1677.

[15] M. A. LOWER, Contributions to Literature, Historical, Antiquarian, and Metrical.  London,
1854, pp. 88-9.

[16] This famous sword was afterwards sent by Richard I. as a present to Tancred; and the value
attached to the weapon may be estimated by the fact that the Crusader sent the English monarch,
in return for it, "four great ships and fifteen galleys."

[17] Weland was the Saxon Vulcan.  The name of Weland's or Wayland's Smithy is still given
to a monument on Lambourn Downs in Wiltshire. The place is also known as Wayland Smith's Cave.
It consists of a rude gallery of stones.

[18] Among the Scythians the iron sword was a god.  It was the image of Mars, and sacrifices
were made to it.  "An iron sword," says Mr. Campbell, "really was once worshipped by a people
with whom iron was rare.  Iron is rare, while stone and bronze weapons are common, in British
tombs, and the sword of these stories is a personage.  It shines, it cries out--the lives of
men are bound up in it.  And so this mystic sword may, perhaps, have been a god amongst the
Celts, or the god of the people with whom the Celts contended somewhere on their long journey
to the west.  It is a fiction now, but it may be founded on fact, and that fact probably was
the first use of iron." To this day an old horse-shoe is considered a potent spell in some
districts against the powers of evil; and for want of a horse-shoe a bit of a rusty reaping-hook
is supposed to have equal power, "Who were these powers of evil who could not resist iron--these
fairies who shoot STONE arrows, and are of the foes to the human race? Is all this but a dim,
hazy recollection of  war between a people who had iron weapons and a race who had not--the
race whose remains are found all over Europe? If these were wandering tribes, they had leaders;
if they were warlike, they had weapons.  There is a smith in the Pantheon of many nations.
Vulcan was a smith; Thor wielded a hammer; even Fionn had a hammer, which was heard in Lochlann
when struck in Eirinn.  Fionn may have borrowed his hammer from Thor long ago, or both may
have got theirs from Vulcan, or all three may have brought hammers with them from the land
where some primeval smith wielded the first sledge-hammer; but may not all these 'smith-gods
be the smiths who made iron weapons for those who fought with the skin-clad warriors who shot
flint-arrows, and who are now bogles, fairies, and demons? In any case, tales about smiths
seem to belong to mythology, and to be common property."--CAMPBELL, Popular Tales of the West
Highlands, Preface, 74-6.

[19] BROOK, Discovery of Errors in the Catalogue of the Nobility, 198.

[20] MEYRICK, i. 11.

[21] GILBERT, Cornwall.

[22] Before table-knives were invented, in the sixteenth century, the knife was a very important
article; each guest at table bearing his own, and sharpening it at the whetstone hung up in
the passage, before sitting down to dinner, Some even carried a whetstone as well as a knife;
and one of Queen Elizabeth's presents to the Earl of Leicester was a whetstone tipped with gold.

[23] The early scarcity of iron in Scotland is confirmed by Froissart, who says,--"In Scotland
you will never find a man of worth; they are like savages, who wish not to be acquainted with
any one, are envious of the good fortune of others, and suspicious of losing anything themselves;
for their country is very poor.  When the English make inroads thither, as they have very frequently
done, they order their provisions, if they wish to live, to follow close at their backs; for
nothing is to be had in that country without great difficulty.  There is neither iron to shoe
horses, nor leather to make harness, saddles, or bridles:  all these things come ready made
from Flanders by sea; and should these fail, there is none to be had in the country."

[24] PARKER'S English Home, 77

[25] The precise time at which Andrea de Ferrara flourished cannot be fixed with accuracy;
but Sir Waiter Scott, in one of the notes to Waverley, says he is believed to have been a foreign
artist brought over by James IV. or V. of Scotland to instruct the Scots in the manufacture
of sword-blades.  The genuine weapons have a crown marked on the blades.

[26] Mr. Parkes, in his Essay on the Manufacture of Edge Tools, says, "Had this ingenious artist
thought of a bath of oil, he might have heated this by means of a furnace underneath it, and
by the use of a thermometer, to the exact point which he found necessary; though it is inconvenient
to have to employ a thermometer for every distinct operation.  Or, if he had been in the possession
of a proper bath of fusible metal, he would have attained the necessary certainty in his process,
and need not have immured himself in a subterranean apartment.--PARKES' Essays, 1841, p. 495.

[27] HOLINSHED, History of England.  It was even said to have been one of the objects of the
Spanish Armada to get the oaks of the Forest of Dean destroyed, in order to prevent further
smelting of the iron.  Thus Evelyn, in his Sylva, says, "I have heard that in the great expedition
of 1588 it was expressly enjoined the Spanish Armada that if, when landed, they should not
be able to subdue our nation and make good their conquest, they should yet be sure not to leave
a tree standing in the Forest of Dean."--NICHOLS, History of the Forest of Dean, p. 22.

CHAPTER II.

EARLY ENGLISH IRON MANUFACTURE.

"He that well observes it, and hath known the welds of Sussex, Surry, and Kent', the grand
nursery especially of oake and beech, shal find such an alteration, within lesse than 30 yeeres,
as may well strike a feare, lest few yeeres more, as pestilent as the former, will leave fewe
good trees standing in those welds.  Such a heate issueth out of the many forges and furnaces
for the making of iron, and out of the glasse kilnes, as hath devoured many famous woods within
the welds,"--JOHN NORDEN, Surveyors' Dialogue (1607).

Few records exist of the manufacture of iron in England in early times. After the Romans left
the island, the British, or more probably the Teutonic tribes settled along the south coast,
continued the smelting and manufacture of the metal after the methods taught them by the colonists.
In the midst of the insecurity, however, engendered by civil war and social changes, the pursuits
of industry must necessarily have been considerably interfered with, and the art of iron-forging
became neglected.  No notice of iron being made in Sussex occurs in Domesday Book, from which
it would appear that the manufacture had in a great measure ceased in that county at the time
of the Conquest, though it was continued in the iron-producing districts bordering on Wales.
In many of the Anglo-Saxon graves which have been opened, long iron swords have been found,
showing that weapons of that metal were in common use.  But it is probable that iron was still
scarce, as ploughs and other agricultural implements continued to be made of wood,--one of
the Anglo-Saxon laws enacting that no man should undertake to guide a plough who could not
make one; and that the cords with which it was bound should be of twisted willows.  The metal
was held in esteem principally as the material of war.  All male adults were required to be
provided with weapons, and honour was awarded to such artificers as excelled in the fabrication
of swords, arms, and defensive armour.[1]

Camden incidentally states that the manufacture of iron was continued in the western counties
during the Saxon era, more particularly in the Forest of Dean, and that in the time of Edward
the Confessor the tribute paid by the city of Gloucester consisted almost entirely of iron
rods wrought to a size fit for making nails for the king's ships. An old religious writer speaks
of the ironworkers of that day as heathenish in their manners, puffed up with pride, and inflated
with worldly prosperity.  On the occasion of St.  Egwin's visit to the smiths of Alcester,
as we are told in the legend, he found then given up to every kind of luxury; and when he proceeded
to preach unto them, they beat upon their anvils in contempt of his doctrine so as completely
to deafen him; upon which he addressed his prayers to heaven, and the town was immediately
destroyed.[2]

But the first reception given to John Wesley by the miners of the Forest of Dean, more than
a thousand years later, was perhaps scarcely more gratifying than that given to St.  Egwin.

That working in iron was regarded as an honourable and useful calling in the Middle Ages, is
apparent from the extent to which it was followed by the monks, some of whom were excellent
craftsmen.  Thus St. Dunstan, who governed England in the time of Edwy the Fair, was a skilled
blacksmith and metallurgist.  He is said to have had a forge even in his bedroom, and it was
there that his reputed encounter with Satan occurred, in which of course the saint came off
the victor.

There was another monk of St.  Alban's, called Anketil, who flourished in the twelfth century,
so famous for his skill as a worker in iron, silver, gold, jewelry, and gilding, that he was
invited by the king of Denmark to be his goldsmith and banker.  A pair of gold and silver candlesticks
of his manufacture, presented by the abbot of St.  Alban's to Pope Adrian IV., were so much
esteemed for their exquisite workmanship that they were consecrated to St.  Peter, and were
the means of obtaining high ecclesiastical distinction for the abbey.

We also find that the abbots of monasteries situated in the iron districts, among their other
labours, devoted themselves to the manufacture of iron from the ore.  The extensive beds of
cinders still found in the immediate neighbourhood of Rievaulx and Hackness, in Yorkshire,
show that the monks were well acquainted with the art of forging, and early turned to account
the riches of the Cleveland ironstone.  In the Forest of Dean also, the abbot of Flaxley was
possessed of one stationary and one itinerant forge, by grant from Henry II, and he was allowed
two oaks weekly for fuel,--a privilege afterwards commuted, in 1258, for Abbot's Wood of 872
acres, which was held by the abbey until its dissolution in the reign of Henry VIII.  At the
same time the Earl of Warwick had forges at work in his woods at Lydney; and in 1282, as many
as 72 forges were leased from the Crown by various iron-smelters in the same Forest of Dean.

There are numerous indications of iron-smelting having been conducted on a considerable scale
at some remote period in the neighbourhood of Leeds, in Yorkshire.  In digging out the foundations
of houses in Briggate, the principal street of that town, many "bell pits" have been brought
to light, from which ironstone has been removed.  The new cemetery at Burmandtofts, in the
same town, was in like manner found pitted over with these ancient holes.  The miner seems
to have dug a well about 6 feet in diameter, and so soon as he reached the mineral, he worked
it away all round, leaving the bell-shaped cavities in question.  He did not attempt any gallery
excavations, but when the pit was exhausted, a fresh one was sunk.  The ore, when dug, was
transported, most probably on horses' backs, to the adjacent districts for the convenience
of fuel.  For it was easier to carry the mineral to the wood--then exclusively used for smelting'--than
to bring the wood to the mineral.  Hence the numerous heaps of scoriae found in the neighbourhood
of Leeds,--at Middleton, Whitkirk, and Horsforth--all within the borough.  At Horsforth, they
are found in conglomerated masses from 30 to 40 yards long, and of considerable width and depth.
The remains of these cinder-beds in various positions, some of them near the summit of the
hill, tend to show, that as the trees were consumed, a new wind furnace was erected in another
situation, in order to lessen the labour of carrying the fuel.  There are also deposits of
a similar kind at Kirkby Overblow, a village a few miles to the north-east of Leeds; and Thoresby
states that the place was so called because it was the village of the "Ore blowers,"--hence
the corruption of "Overblow."  A discovery has recently been made among the papers of the Wentworth
family, of a contract for supplying wood and ore for iron "blomes" at Kirskill near Otley,
in the fourteenth century;[3] though the manufacture near that place has long since ceased.

Although the making of iron was thus carried on in various parts of England in the Middle Ages,
the quantity produced was altogether insufficient to meet the ordinary demand, as it appears
from our early records to have long continued one of the principal articles imported from foreign
countries.  English iron was not only dearer, but it was much inferior in quality to that manufactured
abroad; and hence all the best arms and tools continued to be made of foreign iron.  Indeed
the scarcity of this metal occasionally led to great inconvenience, and to prevent its rising
in price Parliament enacted, in 1354, that no iron, either wrought or unwrought, should be
exported, under heavy penalties. For nearly two hundred years--that is, throughout the fourteenth
and fifteenth centuries--the English market was principally supplied with iron and steel from
Spain and Germany; the foreign merchants of the Steelyard doing a large and profitable trade
in those commodities. While the woollen and other branches of trade were making considerable
progress, the manufacture of iron stood still.  Among the lists of articles, the importation
of which was prohibited in Edward IV.'s reign, with a view to the protection of domestic manufactures,
we find no mention of iron, which was still, as a matter of necessity, allowed to come freely
from abroad.

The first indications of revival in the iron manufacture showed themselves in Sussex, a district
in which the Romans had established extensive works, and where smelting operations were carried
on to a partial extent in the neighbourhood of Lewes, in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries,
where the iron was principally made into nails and horse-shoes.  The county abounds in ironstone,
which is contained in the sandstone beds of the Forest ridge, lying between the chalk and oolite
of the district, called by geologists the Hastings sand.  The beds run in a north-westerly
direction, by Ashburnham and Heathfield, to Crowborough and thereabouts.  In early times the
region was covered with wood, and was known as the Great Forest of Anderida.  The Weald, or
wild wood, abounded in oaks of great size, suitable for smelting ore; and the proximity of
the mineral to the timber, as well as the situation of the district in the neighbourhood of
the capital, sufficiently account for the Sussex iron-works being among the most important
which existed in England previous to the discovery of smelting by pit-coal.

The iron manufacturers of the south were especially busy during the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries.  Their works were established near to the beds of ore, and in places where water-power
existed, or could be provided by artificial means.  Hence the numerous artificial ponds which
are still to be found all over the Sussex iron district.  Dams of earth, called "pond-bays,"
were thrown across watercourses, with convenient outlets built of masonry, wherein was set
the great wheel which worked the hammer or blew the furnace.  Portions of the adjoining forest-land
were granted or leased to the iron-smelters; and the many places still known by the name of
"Chart" in the Weald, probably mark the lands chartered for the purpose of supplying the iron-works
with their necessary fuel.  The cast-iron tombstones and slabs in many Sussex churchyards,--the
andirons and chimney backs[4] still found in old Sussex mansions and farm-houses, and such
names as Furnace Place, Cinder Hill, Forge Farm, and Hammer Pond, which are of very frequent
occurrence throughout the county, clearly mark the extent and activity of this ancient branch
of industry.[5]  Steel was also manufactured at several places in the county, more particularly
at Steel-Forge Land, Warbleton, and at Robertsbridge.  The steel was said to be of good quality,
resembling Swedish--both alike depending for their excellence on the exclusive use of charcoal
in smelting the ore,--iron so produced maintaining its superiority over coal-smelted iron to
this day.

When cannon came to be employed in war, the nearness of Sussex to London and the Cinque Forts
gave it a great advantage over the remoter iron-producing districts in the north and west of
England, and for a long time the iron-works of this county enjoyed almost a monopoly of the
manufacture.  The metal was still too precious to be used for cannon balls, which were hewn
of stone from quarries on Maidstone Heath.  Iron was only available, and that in limited quantities,
for the fabrication of the cannon themselves, and wrought-iron was chiefly used for the purpose.
An old mortar which formerly lay on Eridge Green, near Frant, is said to have been the first
mortar made in England;[6] only the chamber was cast, while the tube consisted of bars strongly
hooped together.  Although the local distich says that

  "Master Huggett and his man John
  They did cast the first cannon,"

there is every reason to believe that both cannons and mortars were made in Sussex before Huggett's
time; the old hooped guns in the Tower being of the date of Henry VI.  The first cast-iron
cannons of English manufacture were made at Buxtead, in Sussex, in 1543, by Ralph Hogge, master
founder, who employed as his principal assistant one Peter Baude, a Frenchman.  Gun-founding
was a French invention, and Mr. Lower supposes that Hogge brought over Baude from France to
teach his workmen the method of casting the guns.  In short, Peter Van Collet here introduced
the manufacture of the explosive shell in the form in which it continued to be used down to
our own day.

Baude, the Frenchman, afterwards set up business on his own account, making many guns, both
of brass and iron, some of which are still preserved in the Tower.[7]  Other workmen, learning
the trade from him, also began to manufacture on their own account; one of Baude's servants,
named John Johnson, and after him his son Thomas, becoming famous for the excellence of their
cast-iron guns.  The Hogges continued the business for several generations, and became a wealthy
county family.  Huggett was another cannon maker of repute; and Owen became celebrated for
his brass culverins.  Mr. Lower mentions, as a curious instance of the tenacity with which
families continue to follow a particular vocation, that many persons of the name of Huggett
still carry on the trade of blacksmith in East Sussex.  But most of the early workmen at the
Sussex iron-works, as in other branches of skilled industry in England during the sixteenth
century, were foreigners--Flemish and French--many of whom had taken refuge in this country
from the religious persecutions then raging abroad, while others, of special skill, were invited
over by the iron manufacturers to instruct their workmen in the art of metal-founding.[8]

As much wealth was gained by the pursuit of the revived iron manufacture in Sussex, iron-mills
rapidly extended over the ore-yielding district.  The landed proprietors entered with zeal
into this new branch of industry, and when wood ran short, they did not hesitate to sacrifice
their ancestral oaks to provide fuel for the furnaces.  Mr. Lower says even the most ancient
families, such as the Nevilles, Howards, Percys, Stanleys, Montagues, Pelhams, Ashburnhams,
Sidneys, Sackvilles, Dacres, and Finches, prosecuted the manufacture with all the apparent
ardour of Birmingham and Wolverhampton men in modern times.  William Penn, the courtier Quaker,
had iron-furnaces at Hawkhurst and other places in Sussex.  The ruins of the Ashburnham forge,
situated a few miles to the north-east of Battle, still serve to indicate the extent of the
manufacture.  At the upper part of the valley in which the works were situated, an artificial
lake was formed by constructing an embankment across the watercourse descending from the higher
ground,[9] and thus a sufficient fall of water was procured for the purpose of blowing the
furnaces, the site of which is still marked by surrounding mounds of iron cinders and charcoal
waste.  Three quarters of a mile lower down the valley stood the forge, also provided with
water-power for working the hammer; and some of the old buildings are still standing, among
others the boring-house, of small size, now used as an ordinary labourer's cottage, where the
guns were bored.  The machine was a mere upright drill worked by the water-wheel, which was
only eighteen inches across the breast.  The property belonged, as it still does, to the Ashburnham
family, who are said to have derived great wealth from the manufacture of guns at their works,
which were among the last carried on in Sussex.  The Ashburnham iron was distinguished for
its toughness, and was said to be equal to the best Spanish or Swedish iron.

Many new men also became enriched, and founded county families; the Fuller family frankly avowing
their origin in the singular motto of Carbone et forcipibus--literally, by charcoal and tongs.[10]

Men then went into Sussex to push their fortunes at the forges, as they now do in Wales or
Staffordshire; and they succeeded then, as they do now, by dint of application, industry, and
energy.  The Sussex Archaeological Papers for 1860 contain a curious record of such an adventurer,
in the history of the founder of the Gale family.  Leonard Gale was born in 1620 at Riverhead,
near Sevenoaks, where his father pursued the trade of a blacksmith.  When the youth had reached
his seventeenth year, his father and mother, with five of their sons and daughters, died of
the plague, Leonard and his brother being the only members of the family that survived.  The
patrimony of 200L. left them was soon spent; after which Leonard paid off his servants, and
took to work diligently at his father's trade.  Saving a little money, he determined to go
down into Sussex, where we shortly find him working the St.  Leonard's Forge, and afterwards
the Tensley Forge near Crawley, and the Cowden Iron-works, which then bore a high reputation.
After forty years' labour, he accumulated a good fortune, which he left to his son of the same
name, who went on iron-forging, and eventually became a county gentleman, owner of the house
and estate of Crabbett near Worth, and Member of Parliament for East Grinstead.

Several of the new families, however, after occupying a high position in the county, again
subsided into the labouring class, illustrating the Lancashire proverb of "Twice clogs, once
boots," the sons squandering what the father's had gathered, and falling back into the ranks
again.  Thus the great Fowles family of Riverhall disappeared altogether from Sussex.  One
of them built the fine mansion of Riverhall, noble even in decay.  Another had a grant of free
warren from King James over his estates in Wadhurst, Frant, Rotherfield, and Mayfield.  Mr.
Lower says the fourth in descent from this person kept the turnpike-gate at Wadhurst, and that
the last of the family, a day-labourer, emigrated to America in 1839, carrying with him, as
the sole relic of his family greatness, the royal grant of free warren given to his ancestor.
The Barhams and Mansers were also great iron-men, officiating as high sheriffs of the county
at different times, and occupying spacious mansions.  One branch of these families terminated,
Mr. Lower says, with Nicholas Barham, who died in the workhouse at Wadhurst in 1788; and another
continues to be represented by a wheelwright at Wadhurst of the same name.

The iron manufacture of Sussex reached its height towards the close of the reign of Elizabeth,
when the trade became so prosperous that, instead of importing iron, England began to export
it in considerable quantities, in the shape of iron ordnance.  Sir Thomas Leighton and Sir
Henry Neville had obtained patents from the queen, which enabled them to send their ordnance
abroad, the consequence of which was that the Spaniards were found arming their ships and fighting
us with guns of our own manufacture.  Proclamations were issued forbidding the export of iron
and brass ordnance, and a bill was brought into Parliament to put a stop to the trade; but,
not withstanding these prohibitions, the Sussex guns long continued to be smuggled out of the
country in considerable numbers.  "It is almost incredible," says Camden, "how many guns are
made of the iron in this county.  Count Gondomar (the Spanish ambassador) well knew their goodness
when he so often begged of King James the boon to export them."  Though the king refused his
sanction, it appears that Sir Anthony Shirley of Weston, an extensive iron-master, succeeded
in forwarding to the King of Spain a hundred pieces of cannon.

So active were the Sussex manufacturers, and so brisk was the trade they carried on, that during
the reign of James I.  it is supposed one-half of the whole quantity of iron produced in England
was made there.  Simon Sturtevant, in his 'Treatise of Metallica,' published in 1612, estimates
the whole number of iron-mills in England and Wales at 800, of which, he says, "there are foure
hundred milnes in Surry, Kent, and Sussex, as the townsmen of Haslemere have testified and
numbered unto me."  But the townsmen of Haslemere must certainly have been exaggerating, unless
they counted smiths' and farriers' shops in the number of iron-mills.  About the same time
that Sturtevant's treatise was published, there appeared a treatise entitled the 'Surveyor's
Dialogue,' by one John Norden, the object of which was to make out a case against the iron-works
and their being allowed to burn up the timber of the country for fuel.  Yet Norden does not
make the number of iron-works much more than a third of Sturtevant's estimate.  He says, "I
have heard that there are or lately were in Sussex neere 140 hammers and furnaces for iron,
and in it and Surrey adjoining three or four glasse-houses."  Even the smaller number stated
by Norden, however, shows that Sussex was then regarded as the principal seat of the iron-trade.
Camden vividly describes the noise and bustle of the manufacture--the working of the heavy
hammers, which, "beating upon the iron, fill the neighbourhood round about, day and night,
with continual noise."  These hammers were for the most part worked by the power of water,
carefully stored in the artificial "Hammer-ponds" above described.  The hammer-shaft was usually
of ash, about 9 feet long, clamped at intervals with iron hoops.  It was worked by the revolutions
of the water-wheel, furnished with projecting arms or knobs to raise the hammer, which fell
as each knob passed, the rapidity of its action of course depending on the velocity with which
the water-wheel revolved.  The forge-blast was also worked for the most part by water-power.
Where the furnaces were small, the blast was produced by leather bellows worked by hand, or
by a horse walking in a gin.  The foot-blasts of the earlier iron-smelters were so imperfect
that but a small proportion of the ore was reduced, so that the iron-makers of later times,
more particularly in the Forest of Dean, instead of digging for ironstone, resorted to the
beds of ancient scoriae for their principal supply of the mineral.

Notwithstanding the large number of furnaces in blast throughout the county of Sussex at the
period we refer to, their produce was comparatively small, and must not be measured by the
enormous produce of modern iron-works; for while an iron-furnace of the present day will easily
turn out 150 tons of pig per week, the best of the older furnaces did not produce more than
from three to four tons.  One of the last extensive contracts executed in Sussex was the casting
of the iron rails which enclose St.  Paul's Cathedral.  The contract was thought too large
for one iron-master to undertake, and it was consequently distributed amongst several contractors,
though the principal part of the work was executed at Lamberhurst, near Tunbridge Wells.  But
to produce the comparatively small quantity of iron turned out by the old works, the consumption
of timber was enormous; for the making of every ton of pig-iron required four loads of timber
converted into charcoal fuel, and the making of every ton of bar-iron required three additional
loads.  Thus, notwithstanding the indispensable need of iron, the extension of the manufacture,
by threatening the destruction of the timber of the southern counties, came to be regarded
in the light of a national calamity.  Up to a certain point, the clearing of the Weald of its
dense growth of underwood had been of advantage, by affording better opportunities for the
operations of agriculture.  But the "voragious iron-mills" were proceeding to swallow up everything
that would burn, and the old forest growths were rapidly disappearing.  An entire wood was
soon exhausted, and long time was needed before it grew again.  At Lamberhurst alone, though
the produce was only about five tons of iron a-week, the annual consumption of wood was about
200,000 cords!  Wood continued to be the only material used for fuel generally--a strong prejudice
existing against the use of sea-coal for domestic purposes.[11]  It therefore began to be feared
that there would be no available fuel left within practicable reach of the metropolis; and
the contingency of having to face the rigorous cold of an English winter without fuel naturally
occasioning much alarm, the action of the Government was deemed necessary to remedy the apprehended
evil.

