The clerical restriction had the effect of chiefly confining selection to College offices to
those who were in orders. These in due course went off to benefices in the gift of the College,
these acting as a species of pension. One form of benefaction frequently bestowed by past members
was the gift of an advowson; one or two benefactors left estates, the revenues from which were
to accumulate, and with the sums so raised advowsons were to be purchased. Presentation to
livings went by seniority of standing, and this practice, with the restriction on marriage,
gave rise to the belief, still prevalent in many parishes where the College is patron, that
the College on a vacancy always chooses for the next incumbent "the oldest bachelor." It seems
probable, without any minute statistical inquiry, that most of the Fellows left the College
before the age of forty. A few remained on for life.

It is difficult now to reconstruct a picture of the High Table, made up as it was for many
years of a group of middle-aged or elderly men, with a considerable admixture of youthful Fellow
Commoners. During the eighteenth century the proportion of Fellow Commoners was probably from
one-fourth to one-third of those dining together, and constraint on both sides must have been
almost inevitable. The terms "don" and "donnishness" seem to have acquired their uncomplimentary
meaning about this period. The precise significance of "don" is not easy to express concisely;
the most felicitous is perhaps that of the Oxford Shotover Papers, where we read that don means,
in Spain, a gentleman; in England, a Fellow. The abolition of the Fellow Commoner was perhaps
chiefly due to the rise of the democratic spirit and a general dislike of privilege, but there
are other grounds for welcoming it.

Of the individuals who make up the stream of youthful life which has ebbed and flowed through
the College gate there is but little official record. An Admonition Book exists, in which more
than a century ago those who were punished for graver offences against discipline signed the
record of their sentence and promised amendment. One youth admits over a trembling signature
that he was "admonished by the Master, before the Seniors, for keeping strangers in my chamber
till twelve o' the clock, and disturbing the Master by knocking at his gate in an irreverent
manner at that hour for the keys of the gate." When the College gate was closed it may be explained
that the keys were placed in the Master's keeping. We are, however, left in ignorance of what
passed in that chamber until the midnight hour. Yet no doubt the student in past days had his
amusements as well as his successor of the present day--rougher perhaps, but not less agreeable
to him.

In Bishop Fisher's statutes archery was encouraged as a pastime, and we know from Ascham's
writings that he indulged in it. In the sixteenth century the College built a tennis-court
for the use of its members. John Hall, who entered the College in 1646, recommended "shittlecock"
as fit for students--"it requires a nimble arme with quick and waking eye." We hear of horse
matches and cock-fighting, but in terms of disapproval. Football is mentioned in 1574, when
the Vice-Chancellor directed that scholars should only play upon their own College ground.
In 1595 "the hurtful and unscholarly exercise of football" was forbidden, except within each
College and between members of the same College. Certain general orders for the discipline
of the undergraduates, which gave rise to much controversy about 1750, forbade cricket between
the hours of nine and twelve in the morning. In 1763 the Vice-Chancellor required that no scholar,
of whatever rank, should be present at bull-baiting. We read in the eighteenth century of "schemes"
or water-parties on the river, but these appear to have been more of the nature of picnics
than exercises of skill. Riding was probably very common, the student arriving on his nag,
perhaps selling it and using the proceeds as a start in his new life. The phrase "Hobson's
choice" took its rise from the rule in the livery stables of Hobson the carrier that a man
who hired a hack had to take the one that stood nearest to the stable door. In later days stage-coaches
supplied a more regular means of conveyance. Students leaving Cambridge for the North betook
themselves to Huntingdon, and were housed at the George Inn there till places could be found
for them in the coaches. The landlord of the George sending over to Cambridge to let it be
known that one batch were gone and that another might come over.

Traditions linger in parishes round Cambridge that the University "gentlemen" used certain
fields or commons for the purpose of riding races; the Cottenham steeplechases are presumably
a survival of this practice. Shooting and coursing, with a little hunting, came into vogue
at the end of the eighteenth century.

The rise and organisation of athletic sports as an essential element of College life would
require a bulky history in itself. The first to take definite form was rowing. The historic
boat club of the college is the Lady Margaret Boat Club; this was founded in the October term
of 1825. The actual founder of the club seems to have been the Hon. Richard John Le Poer Trench,
a son of the second Earl of Clancarty. Trench afterwards became a captain in the 52nd Regiment,
and died 12th August 1841. The club was the first to start an eight-oared boat on the Cam,
though some Trinity men had a four-oar on the river a short time before the Lady Margaret was
started. Among the first members of the club were William Snow and Charles Merivale, afterwards
Dean of Ely. Trench acted as stroke of the original first boat crew in the Lent Term of 1826.
There were at first no regular races, but impromptu trials of speed with other crews frequently
took place. In 1827 the University Boat Club was started, and regular bumping races begun.
The first challenge to Oxford was determined on at a meeting of the University Boat Club held
20th February 1829, when it was resolved: "That Mr. Snow, of St. John's, be requested to write
immediately to Mr. Staniforth, Christ Church, Oxford, proposing to make up a University Match."
The match was made up, and the race rowed at Henley on 10th June 1829, and from this the annual
boat-race between Oxford and Cambridge takes its rise. Snow acted as stroke of the Cambridge
boat, George Augustus Selwyn, successively Bishop of New Zealand and Lichfield, rowed "seven,"
and Charles Merivale "four." Snow (afterwards Strahan) became a banker, and died at Florence
4th July 1886. In after years when, from 1861 to 1869 inclusive, Oxford had uniformly beaten
Cambridge, the Lady Margaret supplied the late John H. D. Goldie to break the spell and restore
hope and confidence to Cambridge crews. Thus the College club has taken an important part in
the establishment and maintenance of Cambridge rowing. Two verses of the College boat song
run as follows:--

    "Mater regum Margareta
    Piscatori dixit laeta
      'Audi quod propositum;
    Est remigium decorum
    Suavis strepitus remorum
      Ergo sit Collegium.'

           *       *       *       *       *

    Sic Collegium fundatum
    Et Johannis nomen datum
      Margareta domina,
    Ergo remiges gaudendum
    Triumphandum et canendum
      In saeclorum secula."

So that, if we can trust the historic insight of the author (Mr. T. R. Glover), the intentions
of the foundress have been duly carried out.

The uniform of the club was at first much what it is now, a white jersey with pink stripes;
with this was worn a jacket of scarlet flannel, popularly known as a "blazer"--a name which
has passed into the English language as descriptive of the coloured jackets of all clubs. It
is said that some one, whose feeling for analogy was stronger than for decorum, described the
surplice as "the blazer of the Church of England." Organised cricket clubs, athletic clubs,
and football clubs grew up, and in process of time clubs for the pursuit of every kind of athletic
exercise have been started. Originally each club in College had a subscription, paid by its
members, towards the expenses of the special game. About twenty years ago all the clubs in
St. John's were united into one club--"The Amalgamation." The subscription to this entitles
a member to join in any of the recognised games. The funds are administered by a committee
consisting of the representatives of those interested in the different games, and grants made
from the general fund towards the expenses of each game. The presence of a few senior members
of the College on the committee provides the continuity so difficult to maintain with the short-lived
generations of undergraduate life. The College provides the ground for the cricket, football,
and lawn-tennis clubs, while through the generosity of members of the College of all standings
a handsome boat-house has recently been built on the river. The College also possesses flourishing
musical and debating societies, and from time to time clubs arise for literary and social purposes,
dying out and being refounded with great persistence.

In another sphere of work the College has taken a leading part. St. John's was the first College
in Cambridge to start a mission in London--the Lady Margaret Mission in Walworth. Preaching
in the College Chapel on 28th January 1883, the Rev. William Allen Whitworth, a Fellow of the
College, then Vicar of St. John's, Hammersmith, afterwards Incumbent of All Saints', Margaret
Street, suggested that the College should support a mission in some neglected district of London.
The matter took form a little later in the year, and since then the College Mission has been
a College institution. Members of the College visiting the mission district, and visitors from
Walworth coming for an annual outing, including a cricket match, in August.

Another flourishing institution is the College magazine, The Eagle. Founded in the year 1858,
it has maintained its existence for nearly fifty years, being now the oldest of College magazines.
It has numbered among its contributors many who have subsequently found a wider field and audience:
some of the earliest efforts of Samuel Butler, author of Erewhon, are to be found in its pages.

       *       *       *       *       *

I now bring my sketch of the College history to a close. I have endeavoured, within the prescribed
limits, to give an outline of the corporate life of an ancient and famous foundation. In writing
it two classes of readers have been borne in mind: the visitor who, within a short compass,
may wish to learn something more than can be picked up by an inspection of the buildings; members
of the College who feel a lively interest in the habits and pursuits of those who have preceded
them. I have, perhaps, thought more of the latter than of the former class.

Members of the College have always been distinguished for a certain independence of thought
and adherence to principle, not always guided by motives of mere worldly prudence; they have
always been noted for that strong corporate feeling which finds expression in the words of
Viscount Falkland's letter, before alluded to: "I still carry about with me an indelible character
of affection and duty to that Society, and an extraordinary longing for some occasion of expressing
that affection and that duty."

