Translators

BAYARD QUINCY MORGAN, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of German, University
      of Wisconsin:
            Gay Hearts; Tonio Kröger; Matt the Holy; The Styrian
              Wine-Carter.

KATHARINE ROYCE:
            Stephen the Smith.

MRS. AMELIA VON ENDE:
            The Iron Idol.

                         CONTENTS OF VOLUME XIX

                                                              PAGE

The Contemporary Short Story. By Julius Petersen                xi

                             HELENE BÖHLAU

The Ball of Crystal. Translated by A. I. du P. Coleman           1

                              CLARA VIEBIG

Burning Love. Translated by William Guild Howard                77

                         EDUARD VON KEYSERLING

Gay Hearts. Translated by Bayard Quincy Morgan                 101

                              THOMAS MANN

Tonio Kröger. Translated by Bayard Quincy Morgan               184

                              LUDWIG THOMA

Matt the Holy. Translated by Bayard Quincy Morgan              251

                          RUDOLF HANS BARTSCH

The Styrian Wine-Carter. Translated by Bayard Quincy Morgan    268

                              EMIL STRAUSS

Mara. Translated by William Guild Howard                       285

                             HERMANN HESSE

In the Old "Sun." Translated by A. I. du P. Coleman            325

                               ERNST ZAHN

Stephen the Smith. Translated by Katharine Royce               373

                            JAKOB SCHAFFNER

The Iron Idol. Translated by Mrs. Amelia von Ende              456

                       ILLUSTRATIONS--VOLUME XIX

                                                              PAGE

Autumn. By Karl Haider                              Frontispiece

Helene Böhlau                                                    2

Wife of a Clamdigger. By Hans von Bartels                       32

Folksong. By K. Reutlingen                                      52

Clara Viebig                                                    78

A Portrait. By Adolf Münzer                                    102

The Gossips. By Friedrich Wahle                                142

Little Curiosity. By Julius Exter                              172

Thomas Mann                                                    186

Arco. By Benno Becker                                          226

Ludwig Thoma                                                   252

Rudolf Hans Bartsch                                            270

Back from the Fair. By Franz Wilhelm Voigt                     286

Hermann Hesse                                                  326

A Human Load. By Franz Wilhelm Voigt                           336

Flower Market at Leyden. By Hans Herrmann                      356

Ernst Zahn                                                     374

Evening. By Ludwig Dill                                        400

Moonrise in the Moor. By Otto Modersohn                        420

Forest Meadows. By Oscar Frenzel                               450

Moorland. By Otto Modersohn                                    480

                      THE CONTEMPORARY SHORT STORY

                        By Julius Petersen, Ph.D.
          Professor of German Literature, University of Basel

                   TRANSLATED BY WILLIAM GUILD HOWARD

The last two volumes of this comprehensive publication are devoted to the living, the writers
of the present who sow the seed from which shall grow the future of German letters. But who
can speak of prophecy or prevision, at a moment when all who call themselves German are compelled
to fight for their existence, and the future of German nationality as well as of German culture
is hidden by the smoke of battle? To the four quarters of the globe the wild alarm Germania
est delenda is trumpeted as a so-called duty of human civilization; isolated Germany can respond
only with her resolute Victory or Death. What shall be the end? Shall this war of the nations,
unparalleled in history, mean for Germany the destruction of all her material and spiritual
possessions, as they were destroyed during the thirty years of horror in the seventeenth century?
Or has Germany, thrown upon her own resources, attained to full consciousness of her strength,
and now at last repaired the damage of that national calamity, which devastated her territory,
subjected her to foreign domination, and continued to retard her progress for two full centuries?

Who can foretell whether the heroism of a mighty time, whose dawn we see, is to give new inspiration
to patriotic poetry for centuries to come, and beget a new generation of bards worthy to sing
of arms and men? The spirit of self-sacrificing devotion which waged the Seven Years' War and
the Wars of Liberation has returned to animate the Germany of today. Who knows, however, but
that many a precious life will be sacrificed from which we hoped for great things even in our
literature, and which now sheds its blood in a struggle for the warrior's laurel wreath? For
German poets have also heard the call to arms; and those who have not, like Ganghofer, despite
his sixty years, and Dehmel with his fifty-one, joined the ranks of the volunteers, tune their
lyres to Tyrtæan measures and enlist their pens in the service of their native land. Thus Gerhart
Hauptmann, who only a year ago concluded his dramatic celebration of the centennial of German
liberation with an apotheosis of peace, now comes forward with stirring war songs.

Is this still the people to which Goethe belonged? At a time when a common cause with Austria
conjures up again the shade of the dear old Holy Roman Empire no other verse in Faust seems
so inept as that concerning the ugly political song. Today we should rather say "An unpolitical
song, an ugly song;" for to the people that but a few weeks ago was mindful of naught but works
of peace everything has become a matter of indifference except the burning question of the
hour. Even though the longed-for peace should soon return, the year 1914 must leave a deep
mark in the development of German literature. As yet we can only look back, not forward, from
this milestone; and even in so doing we cannot escape from the present.

One thing the very first days of the war have made manifest: the physical and moral strength
and the healthy marrow of the German people. Our literature, as the most faithful mirror of
national life, has reflected in the past ten years this incorruptible healthfulness, and if
we look somewhat farther back, we even see something resembling a process of convalescence.
It was possible in 1903 for a novel Jena or Sedan by Franz Adam Beyerlein to create a sensation.
Written in the manner of Zola, the book, which, because of an alleged dry rot in the German
army, prophesied mischance in the future, produced its effect not so much through an apparently
objective but gloomy depiction of life in the garrisons, as through the nourishment that it
gave to the torturing doubts which during the last decades of the nineteenth century grew rank
as a fatalistic pessimism. The very principle of naturalism as a form of art, with its one-sided
preference for disease, crime, and weakness, flourished on the offal of a materialistic philosophy
of life, which viewed the vanity of existence with weary resignation. But this disease of the
times was as little a specifically German malady as the naturalism imported from France and
Russia was a genuine form of German art. Liberation from paralyzing lethargy was possible only
through a realization of the fact that the real sources of national power were to be sought
elsewhere. The soul of the German people, which in former centuries gave birth to mysticism
and romanticism, is filled with a yearning for the infinite that cannot in the long run be
contented with a materialistic philosophy; and the home of the German people, broad and fertile
Germany, presents other pictures than a view of coal mines and swarming streets seen through
the narrow space between factory chimneys. As a reaction against naturalism there arose therefore
a neo-romanticism, and as its national modification, an art of the native heath (Heimatkunst).

There is no contradiction between romanticism and Heimatkunst; for it was romanticism that
in its time aroused the Germans to a real sense of what their native heath meant for them;
neither is Heimatkunst opposed to naturalism. In both Heimatkunst and naturalism nature is
the watchword, but with the difference that what for the one is the principle is for the other
the subject of poetic representation. Naturalism aimed to give the impression of inexorable
fidelity to nature in the reproduction of the unhealthful and of that which strictly speaking
was contrary to nature; Heimatkunst, on the other hand, had recourse to free and open nature
as the unfailing fountain of health. When naturalism came to the fore it was customary to designate
the opposing tendencies as idealism and realism; the contrast is better expressed by the terms
optimism and pessimism. In the last ten years clear prevision of the tasks of the future and
a sense of the duty of national training for these tasks, such as we admire in the Americans,
has developed in Germany. A hopeful outlook fosters the joy of living; as this joy increases,
a new love of nature and a new comprehension of her revelations develop; the old German passion
for roving revives; and delight in song and sport, in fresh air and sunshine, rejuvenates the
whole people. Literature follows this national bent and its rallying cry becomes "Out of the
atmosphere of the hospital and oppressive wretchedness, back to the life-giving sod which yields
sustenance to every worker, out into the country, where there is a sufficiency for simple wants,
where there is no strife between capital and labor, where the harshness of social distinctions
vanishes and the feeling prevails of a common bond between man and his native heath as well
as between man and man."

The optimistic faith in the future of the German people furnishes the foundation also for the
consciousness of a great unity to which all branches of the German stock have now awakened,
and which is the second important element in the* present state of things. German history testifies
to more than a thousand years of inner and outer disunion. The present war is almost the first
in which Germans have not to array themselves against Germans; this time there is left only
the common pain and the common bitterness that a people of kindred blood takes the field against
Germany. But all the German tribes and nations feel themselves to be one people--indeed, the
sense of membership proclaims itself in the form of sympathy beyond political boundaries "as
far as the German tongue is heard." However little political influence may be attached to this
fact, its cultural significance is not to be underestimated; for a common language forms today
a stronger bond than the sense of racial consanguinity, and this bond is most of all strengthened
by the common possession of a literature.

It has been hardly more than a hundred years that the Germans could be said to possess a national
literature. Even the literature of the eighteenth century was ill-starred by the partisan strife
between the Saxons and the Swiss, a strife which had its origin more particularly in irreconcilable
differences of language. Permanent peace was concluded at Weimar without any feeling that the
supremacy of this spiritual centre was tyranny. Even in his old age Goethe showed the keenest
interest in all local and dialectical literature, and romanticism reinforced the sense for
every ancient trait of national individuality. United Germany has no need of an academy to
fix the canons of usage; on the contrary, it recognizes in the variety of local and dialectical
peculiarities a source of wealth which would be impaired by any normalization, and the drying
up of which would threaten literature with sterility. Cultivated Germany is not an anarchy,
but a federation of many small states, with a much more democratic constitution than such a
unified state as France, of which state Paris is the monarch. The influence of Prussia, mostly
misunderstood abroad, is confined to military and civil administration; in questions of art
and culture, but above all in literature, every attempt to enforce uniformity meets with the
most stubborn resistance.

The turn of the century witnessed, it is true, an ominous assumption of authority on the part
of the imperial capital in the domain of literature, and especially the drama; but it was not
so much Berlin as the great city as such. The diseases of superculture, impotent estheticism,
the restless spirit of commercialism, and social conflicts are of the same kind in Berlin and
Vienna as in Paris, London, and New York. Naturalism, which seized upon these themes, was international,
as was socialism, which hailed this movement as its own. With the opposition against naturalism
and with the new gospel of Heimatkunst the revolt against the international, against the literature
of city life in general, and particularly against the snobbish literary clique in Berlin was
complete. As early as 1901 the gospel of "Away from Berlin!" was thus fervently preached by
a champion of Heimatkunst, the Alsatian Fritz Lienhard:

You writers are all of you entirely out of touch with the German family, with the spirit of
the German people throughout the length and breadth of the empire. You no longer survey with
comprehensive vision and open-mindedness the manifold regions of our country and the multifarious
callings of our people; you no longer feel yourselves to be addressing the millions of good
people whose mother tongue you speak, indeed, the best people of your day and generation; you
do not dream of disciplining yourselves to be men and heroes, or of striving to be at one with
the widely ramified nation and the still more widespread spirit of humanity. Aimlessly yielding
to your artistic whims, crotchets, and triflings, you make "interesting works of art" out of
your own immaturity, you are satisfied with an audience composed of an infinitesimal fraction
of our people, a fraction, moreover, which, things being as they are, consists chiefly of the
parvenus residing in Berlin W. This is the public which--more is the pity--dominates the picture
galleries, the concert halls, and the theatres of Berlin, and from Berlin affects to set the
standard of taste for the empire so far, it must be added, as the empire at large concerns
itself at all with this meticulous literature. Religion is a private matter, declares Social
Democracy. We might plaintively add that literature is a parlor matter, the special affair
of Berlin.... Our literature does not throb with the heart-beats of the national soul. And
he who seriously, patriotically, out of the abundance of his heart and the richness of his
mind, and out of a lively sense of community with the myriads of German-speaking men and women
seeks entrance into the world of letters, he faces in painful amazement the dilemma: People
or literature? Human being or artist? Personality or artifice?

These utterances might be taken as a reckless abandonment of artistry in favor of the national,
but commonplace; and in fact, Heimatkunst, when assimilated to folklore, as it was in this
gospel, did run the risk of an uninspired monotony. Such writers as Sohnrey and Frenssen have
not altogether escaped the danger. Only the synthesis of form and content, only creation conscious
of racial peculiarity but obedient to severe esthetic discipline, can keep in the path of fruitful
progress. The intimate connection of man with his native soil presents a modern artistic problem
which can be solved neither by the experimental method, according to which naturalism investigated
the milieu as a causal factor, nor by the amateurishly descriptive processes of idyllic poetasters
and local favorites, but must be intuitively grasped by the penetrating eye of a real seer.

Not merely the subject, but also the seer is native to the spot. The true poet will always
be found to know most intimately the land of his birth and the men of his race. If he confined
himself to these, he would be a narrow specialist. If, on the other hand, he represents other
characters in less familiar setting, he will still envisage them in the manner to which he
is born, and in language, style, and all the forms of apperception he will reveal the temperament
and the nature of his stock. As the specifically German novel, taken by and large, is distinguished
by national traits from the Russian, French, or American, even when it has been modified by
influences from many sides, so the novel of each separate German tribe and nation has kept
its peculiarity within the range of the general membership, one with another. The whole constitutes
an orchestra of manifold instruments, each with its own timbre, and yet all in tune and harmony,
and no one superfluous. The detection of the individual instruments is possible, if we attentively
analyze. The present centrifugal tendency of German literature has strongly developed such
a sense for the detection of differences. Recently the attempt has been made to group the entire
history of German literature from the most ancient times according to racial stocks and regions,
an experiment that would scarcely have been made if the literary circumstances of the present
had not especially invited it.

Literature in Low German has had from time immemorial its sharply defined character, which
harmonizes with the North German landscape. Broad expanses of dead-level heath, great gray-brown
moorlands, meadows intersected by glittering canals, a boundless horizon which gives the eye
a sense of freedom and independence, the blue atmosphere of the sea which contributes something
metaphysical to the humdrum of existence--on this soil a grave race flourishes, of quick conscience
and serious life. The old saying Frisia non cantat marks the lack of exuberance and of the
spirit of revelry. But shy reticence finds compensation in good-natured humor. Unenthusiastic
but substantial realism, speculative meditation, and a certain didactic tone make the Low German
country the home of the fable and the great epic. That such a great dramatist as Hebbel was
also a scion of this stock seems almost exceptional. The stubborn peasant family-stocks, the
urban culture of the Hanseatic cities, and the scattered seats of the nobility, even as far
east as the Russian Baltic provinces, bear witness to the development of a uniform temperament
in spite of all the differences of social environment. We can, then, on the basis of common
Low German characteristics form a great group of writers: writers from the Baltic provinces,
the upper-class life of which has been treated by Eduard von Keyserling, while need and struggle
have been described by Frances Külpe and Karl Worms; the West Prussians, represented by Max
Halbe; the Pomeranians (Georg Engel), the Mecklenburgers (Max Dreyer), the Hanseatics (Gustav
Falke, Thomas Mann, Otto Ernst), the Schleswig-Holsteiners (Timm Kröger, Charlotte Niese, Gustav
Frenssen, Othmar Enking, Helene Voigt-Diederichs), the Hanoverians (Diedrich Speckmann, Heinrich
Sohnrey, Karl Söhle), the Westphalians (Hermann Wette, Walther Schulte vom Brühl).

Along the banks of the Rhine, on the other hand, there dwells in the same latitude a more vivacious
people, whose mischievous cheerfulness and easy-going philosophy of life are manifestations
of their Frankish blood. It is striking that hardly one of the most prominent Rhenish writers
of the present (Clara Viebig, Joseph Lauff, Rudolf Herzog, Wilhelm Schäfer, Wilhelm Schmidtbonn,
Herbert Eulenberg) has failed to try his hand at the drama. In Middle Germany emotions are
more deep-seated and more responsive; people are more sentimental, more soft-hearted, more
talkative, more visionary, have a finer sense of form, but a more conventional manner of speech.
In this charming region of forests and mountains, to which the population is warmly attached
and in which it finds protection, there is abundant occupation for a tender heart and a lively
imagination. Middle Germany is the home of mysticism and romanticism, and this fact is apparent
in the authors of the present day: the Silesians (Karl and Gerhart Hauptmann, Hermann Stehr,
Paul Keller), the Misnians (Max Geissler, Kurt Martens), the Thuringians (Helene Böhlau, Marthe
Renate Fischer, Wilhelm Arminius), the Hessians (Wilhelm Speck), the Franconians (Wilhelm Weigand,
Bernhard Kellerman), and the inhabitants of the Palatinate (Anna Croissant-Rust).

Fondness for music is especially prominent in the stocks in which there has been an infusion
of Slavic elements. In Upper Germany, accordingly, a sharp line is to be drawn between the
Bavaro-Austrian and the Alemannic group. In Austria the capacity for sensuous enjoyment and
a certain indolence are combined with a tendency toward sanguine but short-lived enthusiasms.
A soft, southern air blows about the heights of Styria as well as over Vienna and its environs,
and in the works of the writers of these regions (Wilhelm Fischer-Graz, Rudolf Hans Bartsch)
everything is resolved into a lyrical mood and a melody of words. Similarly in the case of
writers of southern Tirol (Hans von Hoffensthal, Richard Huldschiner), whereas on the northern
slope of the Alps a race of men made of sterner stuff is reared (Rudolf Greinz, Karl Schönherr).
In Bavaria, finally, people are even more rough and ready and lyrical sentimentality yields
to a pugnacious propensity to ridicule, which gives satirical seasoning to the works of the
genuinely Bavarian writers Ludwig Thoma and Joseph Ruederer.

The sluggish Alemannians, on the contrary, lack the vivacity of the Bavaro-Austrian stock.
On the monotonous heights of the Swabian plateau are developed such brusque individualism,
tenacious self-will, peculiar humor inclined to self-depreciation, soaring fantasy, and (withal
there is no lack of comprehension for the ideas of domesticity) such a predilection for adventures
abroad as we find in the Swabian narrators Emil Strauss, Hermann Hesse, Ludwig Finckh, and
Heinrich Lilienfein. Didacticism, present in all Alemannic prose and poetry, finds more popular
forms among the story-writers of the Black Forest of Baden (Heinrich Hansjakob, Hermine Villinger,
Emil Gött, Hermann Burte), while in the local character of the Alsatians, the source of Hermann
Stegemann's novels, good-natured practical joking is more at home. As the rough Alpine country
demands the utmost of human industry, so in the realm of art it has developed a sympathy with
practical, efficient life, which, disinclined to all speculation (for Spitteler stands well-nigh
alone in this matter), is rather under the sway of pedagogical interests. In Switzerland literature
is most indissolubly bound up with the life of the whole people, and a gay art for art's sake
cannot thrive. Here are to be found true farmer-authors, such as Alfred Huggenberger, who still
guides the plow across his fields, or poets who have risen from the ranks of handicraftsmen,
such as Jakob Schaffner, or those who prosecute their literary avocation side by side with
the business of a restaurateur, like Ernst Zahn. And no other of the compatriots of Pestalozzi
(J. C. Heer, Heinrich Federer, Meinrad Lienert, Felix Möschlin) disdains either, to be in the
truest sense a popular poet and an educator of the people.

By virtue of the inexhaustible riches which the Heimatkunst brought to light, the defiant rejection
of the literature of the great cities has been rightly recognized as no mere theoretical programme.
The novel of urban life, such as flourished in Berlin, Vienna, and Munich at the close of the
last century, is today antiquated and has lost its savor. And it is significant that the Berlin
novel of the last few years, for example Georg Hermann's Jettchen Gebert (1906) or the two
most recent works of Clara Viebig, prefers for its scene of action the Berlin of the seventies,
which, as yet free from the modern German "South Sea Bubble," preserved for the inordinately
growing city its old established local character.

An account of German narrative writing of the present time is a kind of ethnography of the
German stocks and regions. The names above-mentioned, selected without prejudice and also without
arbitrariness, ought to be represented here each with a specimen. In part, these authors have
been represented in the preceding volumes. The necessary limits of this volume permit consideration
of only a dozen. The varieties of language and style which distinguish them one from another
cannot fail to be somewhat obscured in a translation; nevertheless, the six pairs which we
have arrayed according to racial affiliation and age are well adapted to give an impression
of the manifoldness of German narrative prose at the beginning of the twentieth century.

In the first place we mention two women, Helene Böhlau and Clara Viebig. Both have passed through
the naturalistic school--for the former, indeed, naturalism marked only a period of transition;
for the latter it meant conversion to a creed to which she has remained faithful.

The cradle of Helene Böhlau stood on classic ground. Exactly one hundred years after Schiller,
in November, 1859, she was born in Weimar, the daughter of a publisher whose name has become
known chiefly in connection with the great Weimar edition of Goethe's complete works. Her grandmother,
"Grammie" as the children called the old lady, took to her heart the shy and timid girl and
revealed to her from the recollections of her own youth the glory that once was and that still
gleamed as a memory within the dim and narrow confines of the Thuringian capital city. Out
of the anecdotes that the grandmother told, the book grew which first made the name of the
authoress famous, Tales of the Councillor's Girls (Ratsmädelgeschichten, 1888). "In the midst
of the great German Empire," the book begins, "lies a little city famed far and wide, Weimar
in Thuringia. When my grandmother was a child there ruled over this country a very wise and
good prince who because of his goodness and wisdom had prevailed upon great poets then living
to come and dwell in his city. And because he was so exceedingly wise and was so beloved and
honored by all, poets and scholars came from all sides, lived in the prince's city, and wrote
there such splendid works that the whole world marveled. Even today what these men thought
and wrote is the most beautiful thing that we know, and it will remain so for a long, long
time to come. About these men everything conceivable has been often told and accurately described,
and people will talk of them centuries hence. But by their side there dwelt in the city in
those days many men of whom nowadays no more mention is made. They too experienced joys and
sorrows; they too had their day, felt deeply, were glad and sad, and had hearts like the others."

Among these mute, inglorious personages of the great time belong the daughters of Councillor
Kirst in Wünsch Street, Rose and Mary, two wide-awake, mischievous lassies who are the heroines
of the book. Young Ernst von Schiller, the second son of the prematurely deceased poet, is
their playmate; they make fun of August von Goethe as he goes a-wooing; they quarrel with the
sour-visaged boor, Arthur Schopenhauer, as they go in and out of his mother's house, the novelist's;
old Madam Kummerfeld, a former actress who in her youth had as Juliet inspired the Leipsic
student Goethe, is their teacher in the art of sewing as well as making a courtly bow--which
latter accomplishment they have occasion to practise when one day in the park they almost knock
down the corpulent Grand Duke by running against him, and are then treated by him to good things
to eat. With his knowledge they slip into the theatre without tickets, and when they have witnessed
a performance of Tasso at which Goethe is present, they are so impressed that they follow the
poet as, wrapped in his cloak, he strides home in the darkness, and for a while they continue
to stare up admiringly at his lighted windows. Nevertheless, at the next moment they scramble
over the wall of the neighboring house and help themselves to the beautiful lilies which bloom
in old Wieland's garden. In these stories the historical personages, which with artistic discretion
are kept in the background, constitute after all only a decorative element; in the foreground
happy youthfulness disports itself in its irresponsibility. "O you poor young folks of today,"
exclaims the young Weimar authoress, "if you had any idea what riches, what abundance of life
the young folks had at their command at the beginning of our century, you would bitterly complain,
you would seem to yourselves deceived and defrauded, old from the cradle, forced into the straight-jackets
of duty!"

