During the 15th shells fell in our position which have been judged by experts to be thrown
by eight-inch siege guns with a range of 10,000 yards. Throughout the whole course of the battle
our troops have suffered very heavily from this fire, although its effect latterly was largely
mitigated by more efficient and thorough intrenching, the necessity for which I impressed strongly
upon army corps commanders. In order to assist them in this work all villages within the area
of our occupation were searched for heavy intrenching tools, a large number of which were collected.

In view of the peculiar formation of the ground on the north side of the river between Missy
and Soissons, and its extraordinary adaptability to a force on the defensive, the Fifth Division
found it impossible to maintain its position on the southern edge of the Chivres Plateau, as
the enemy in possession of the Village of Vregny to the west was able to bring a flank fire
to bear upon it. The division had, therefore, to retire to a line the left of which was at
the village of Marguérite, and thence ran by the north edge of Missy back to the river to the
east of that place.

With great skill and tenacity Sir Charles Fergusson maintained this position throughout the
whole battle, although his trenches were necessarily on lower ground than that occupied by
the enemy on the southern edge of the plateau, which was only 400 yards away.

Gen. Hamilton with the Third Division vigorously attacked to the north, and regained all the
ground he had lost on the 15th, which throughout the battle has formed a most powerful and
effective bridge-head.

6. On the 16th the Sixth Division came up into line.

It had been my intention to direct the First Corps to attack and seize the enemy's position
on the Chemin-des-Dames, supporting it with this new reinforcement. I hoped, from the position
thus gained, to bring effective fire to bear across the front of the Third Division, which,
by securing the advance of the latter, would also take the pressure off the Fifth Division
and the Third Corps.

But any further advance of the First Corps would have dangerously exposed my right flank. And,
further, I learned from the French Commander in Chief that he was strongly reinforcing the
Sixth French Army on my left, with the intention of bringing up the allied left to attack the
enemy's flank, and thus compel his retirement. I therefore sent the Sixth Division to join
the Third Corps, with orders to keep it on the south side of the river, as it might be available
in general reserve.

On the 17th, 18th, and 19th the whole of our line was heavily bombarded, and the First Corps
was constantly and heavily engaged. On the afternoon of the 17th the right flank of the First
Division was seriously threatened. A counter-attack was made by the Northamptonshire Regiment
in combination with the Queen's, and one battalion of the Divisional Reserve was moved up in
support. The Northamptonshire Regiment, under cover of mist, crept up to within a hundred yards
of the enemy's trenches and charged with the bayonet, driving them out of the trenches and
up the hill. A very strong force of hostile infantry was then disclosed on the crest line.
This new line was enfiladed by part of the Queen's and the King's Royal Rifles, which wheeled
to their left on the extreme right of our infantry line, and were supported by a squadron of
cavalry on their outer flank. The enemy's attack was ultimately driven back with heavy loss.

On the 18th, during the night, the Gloucestershire Regiment advanced from their position near
Chivy, filled in the enemy's trenches, and captured two Maxim guns.

On the extreme right the Queen's were heavily attacked, but the enemy was repulsed with great
loss. About midnight the attack was renewed on the First Division, supported by artillery fire,
but was again repulsed.

Shortly after midnight an attack was made on the left of the Second Division with considerable
force, which was also thrown back.

At about 1 P.M. on the 19th the Second Division drove back a heavy infantry attack strongly
supported by artillery fire. At dusk the attack was renewed and again repulsed.

On the 18th I discussed with the General Officer commanding the Second Army Corps and his divisional
commanders the possibility of driving the enemy out of Condé, which lay between his two divisions,
and seizing the bridge, which has remained throughout in his possession.

As, however, I found that the bridge was closely commanded from all points on the south side,
and that satisfactory arrangements were made to prevent any issue from it by the enemy by day
or night, I decided that it was not necessary to incur the losses which an attack would entail,
as, in view of the position of the Second and Third Corps, the enemy could make no use of Condé,
and would be automatically forced out of it by any advance which might become possible for us.

7. On this day information reached me from Gen. Joffre that he had found it necessary to make
a new plan and to attack and envelop the German right flank.

It was now evident to me that the battle in which we had been engaged since the 12th inst.
must last some days longer, until the effect of this new flank movement could be felt and a
way opened to drive the enemy from his positions.

It thus became essential to establish some system of regular relief in the trenches, and I
have used the infantry of the Sixth Division for this purpose with good results. The relieved
brigades were brought back alternately south of the river and, with the artillery of the Sixth
Division, formed a general reserve on which I could rely in case of necessity.

The cavalry has rendered most efficient and ready help in the trenches, and have done all they
possibly could to lighten the arduous and trying task which has of necessity fallen to the
lot of the infantry.

On the evening of the 19th and throughout the 20th the enemy again commenced to show considerable
activity. On the former night a severe counter-attack on the Third Division was repulsed with
considerable loss, and from early on Sunday morning various hostile attempts were made on the
trenches of the First Division. During the day the enemy suffered another severe repulse in
front of the Second Division, losing heavily in the attempt. In the course of the afternoon
the enemy made desperate attempts against the trenches all along the front of the First Corps,
but with similar results.

After dark the enemy again attacked the Second Division, only to be again driven back.

Our losses on these two days were considerable, but the number, as obtained, of the enemy's
killed and wounded vastly exceeded them.

As the troops of the First Army Corps were much exhausted by this continual fighting, I reinforced
Sir Douglas Haig with a brigade from the reserve, and called upon the First Cavalry Division
to assist them.

On the night of the 21st another violent counter-attack was repulsed by the Third Division,
the enemy losing heavily.

On the 23d the four 6-inch howitzer batteries, which I had asked to be sent from home, arrived.
Two batteries were handed over to the Second Corps and two to the First Corps. They were brought
into action on the 24th with very good results.

Our experiences in this campaign seem to point to the employment of more heavy guns of a larger
calibre in great battles which last for several days, during which time powerful intrenching
work on both sides can be carried out. These batteries were used with considerable effect on
the 24th and the following days.

8. On the 23d the action of Gen. de Castelnau's army on the allied left developed considerably,
and apparently withdrew considerable forces of the enemy away from the centre and east. I am
not aware whether it was due to this cause or not, but until the 26th it appeared as though
the enemy's opposition in our front was weakening. On that day, however, a very marked renewal
of activity commenced. A constant and vigorous artillery bombardment was maintained all day,
and the Germans in front of the First Division were observed to be "sapping" up to our lines
and trying to establish new trenches. Renewed counter-attacks were delivered and beaten off
during the course of the day, and in the afternoon a well-timed attack by the First Division
stopped the enemy's intrenching work.

During the night of the 27th-28th the enemy again made the most determined attempts to capture
the trenches of the First Division, but without the slightest success.

Similar attacks were reported during these three days all along the line of the allied front,
and it is certain that the enemy then made one last great effort to establish ascendency. He
was, however, unsuccessful everywhere, and is reported to have suffered heavy losses. The same
futile attempts were made all along our front up to the evening of the 28th, when they died
away, and have not since been renewed.

On former occasions I have brought to your Lordship's notice the valuable services performed
during this campaign by the Royal Artillery.

Throughout the battle of the Aisne they have displayed the same skill, endurance, and tenacity,
and I deeply appreciate the work they have done.

Sir David Henderson and the Royal Flying Corps under his command have again proved their incalculable
value. Great strides have been made in the development of the use of aircraft in the tactical
sphere by establishing effective communication between aircraft and units in action.

It is difficult to describe adequately and accurately the great strain to which officers and
men were subjected almost every hour of the day and night throughout this battle.

I have described above the severe character of the artillery fire which was directed from morning
till night not only upon the trenches, but over the whole surface of the ground occupied by
our forces. It was not until a few days before the position was evacuated that the heavy guns
were removed and the fire slackened. Attack and counter-attack occurred at all hours of the
night and day throughout the whole position, demanding extreme vigilance, and permitting only
a minimum of rest.

The fact that between Sept. 12 to the date of this dispatch the total numbers of killed, wounded,
and missing reached the figures amounting to 561 officers, 12,980 men, proves the severity
of the struggle.

The tax on the endurance of the troops was further increased by the heavy rain and cold which
prevailed for some ten or twelve days of this trying time.

The battle of the Aisne has once more demonstrated the splendid spirit, gallantry, and devotion
which animates the officers and men of his Majesty's forces.

With reference to the last paragraph of my dispatch of Sept. 7, I append the names of officers,
non-commissioned officers, and men brought forward for special mention by army corps commanders
and heads of departments for services rendered from the commencement of the campaign up to
the present date.

I entirely agree with these recommendations and beg to submit them for your Lordship's consideration.

I further wish to bring forward the names of the following officers who have rendered valuable
service: Gen. Sir Horace Smith-Dorrien and Lieut. Gen. Sir Douglas Haig (commanding First and
Second Corps, respectively) I have already mentioned in the present and former dispatches for
particularly marked and distinguished service in critical situations.

Since the commencement of the campaign they have carried out all my orders  and instructions
with the utmost ability.

Lieut. Gen. W.P. Pulteney took over the command of the Third Corps just before the commencement
of the battle of the Marne. Throughout the subsequent operations he showed himself to be a
most capable commander in the field, and has rendered very valuable services.

Major Gen. E.H.H. Allenby and Major Gen. H. De La P. Gough have proved themselves to be cavalry
leaders of a high order, and I am deeply indebted to them. The undoubted moral superiority
which our cavalry has obtained over that of the enemy has been due to the skill with which
they have turned to the best account the qualities inherent in the splendid troops they command.

In my dispatch of the 7th September I mentioned the name of Brig. Gen. Sir David Henderson
and his valuable work in command of the Royal Flying Corps; and I have once more to express
my deep appreciation of the help he has since rendered me.

Lieut. Gen. Sir Archibald Murray has continued to render me invaluable help as Chief of the
Staff; and in his arduous and responsible duties he has been ably assisted by Major Gen. Henry
Wilson, Sub-Chief.

Lieut. Gen. Sir Nevil Macready and Lieut. Gen. Sir William Robertson have continued to perform
excellent service as Adjutant General and Quartermaster General, respectively.

The Director of Army Signals, Lieut. Col. J.S. Fowler, has materially assisted the operations
by the skill and energy which he has displayed in the working of the important department over
which he presides.

My Military Secretary, Brig. Gen. the Hon. W. Lambton, has performed his arduous and difficult
duties with much zeal and great efficiency.

I am anxious also to bring to your Lordship's notice the following names of officers of my
personal staff, who throughout these arduous operations have shown untiring zeal and energy
in the performance of their duties:

    Aides de Camp.

    Lieut. Col. Stanley Barry.
    Lieut. Col. Lord Brooke.
    Major Fitzgerald Watt.

    Extra Aide de Camp.

    Capt. the Hon. F.E. Guest.

    Private Secretary.

    Lieut. Col. Brindsley Fitzgerald.

Major his Royal Highness Prince Arthur of Connaught, K.G., joined my staff as Aide de Camp
on the 14th September.

His Royal Highness's intimate knowledge of languages enabled me to employ him with great advantage
on confidential missions of some importance, and his services have proved of considerable value.

I cannot close this dispatch without informing your Lordship of the valuable services rendered
by the Chief of the French Military Mission at my headquarters, Col. Victor Huguet of the French
Artillery. He has displayed tact and judgment of a high order in many difficult situations,
and has rendered conspicuous service to the allied cause. I have the honor to be, your Lordship's
most obedient servant,

J.D.P. French, Field Marshal, Commanding in Chief the British Army in the Field.

IV.

*The Battle in Flanders.*

[Official Abstract of Report for The Associated Press.]

LONDON, Nov. 29.--A report from Field Marshal Sir John French covering the period of the battle
in Flanders and the days immediately preceding it, issued today by the Official Press Bureau,
shows that this battle was brought about, first, by the Allies' attempts to outflank the Germans,
who countered, and then by the Allies' plans to move to the northeast to Ghent and Bruges,
which also failed. After this the German offensive began, with the French coast ports as the
objective, but this movement, like those of the Allies, met with failure.

The Field Marshal, doubtless in response to the demands of the British public, tells what the
various units of the expeditionary force have been doing--those that failed and were cut off
and those who against superior numbers held the trenches for a month. He gives it as his opinion
that the German losses have been thrice as great as those of the Allies, and speaks optimistically
of the future.

The report covers in a general way the activities of the British troops from Oct. 11 to Nov. 20.

Summing up the situation in concluding his report, the Field Marshal says:

"As I close this dispatch, signs are in evidence that we are possibly in the last stages of
the battle from Ypres to Armentières. For several days past the artillery fire of the enemy
has slackened considerably, and his infantry attacks have practically ceased." Their strength
enabled them from the outset to throw greatly superior forces against us in the west.

"I cannot speak too highly of the services rendered by the Royal Artillery throughout the battle.
In spite of the fact that the enemy brought up in support of his attacks guns of great range
and shell power, our men have succeeded throughout in preventing the enemy from establishing
anything in the nature of superiority in artillery. The skill, courage, and energy displayed
by the commanders of the Royal Artillery have been very marked. The Royal Engineers have been
indefatigable in their efforts to assist the infantry in field, fortification, and trench work.

"I deeply regret the heavy casualties which we have suffered, but the nature of the fighting
has been very desperate, and we have been assailed by vastly superior numbers. I have every
reason to know that throughout the course of the battle we have placed at least three times
as many of the enemy hors de combat in dead, wounded and prisoners.

"Throughout these operations Gen. Foch has strained his resources to the utmost to afford me
all the support he could. An expression of my warm gratitude is also due to Gen. Dubail, commanding
the Eighth French Army Corps on my left, and to Gen. de Maud'huy, commanding the Tenth Army
Corps on my right."

Discussing the details of the engagement from Ypres to Armentières, Field Marshal Sir John
French explains that he was impressed early in October with the necessity of giving the greatest
possible support to the northern flank of the Allies in the effort to outflank the Germans
and compel them to evacuate their positions. He says that the situation on the Aisne warranted
the withdrawal of British troops from positions they held there, as the enemy had been weakened
by continual attacks and the fortifications of the Allies much improved.

The Field Marshal made known his view to Gen. Joffre, who agreed with it. The French General
Staff arranged for the withdrawal of the British, which began on Oct. 3 and was completed on
Oct. 19, when the First Army Corps, under Gen. Sir Douglas Haig detrained at St. Omer.

The general plan, as arranged by Field Marshal French and Gen. Foch, commanding the French
troops to the north of Noyon, was that the English should pivot on the French at Bethune, attacking
the Germans on their flank and forcing their way north. In the event that the British forced
the Germans out of their positions, making possible a forward movement of the Allies, the French
and British were to march east, with Lille as the dividing line between the two armies, the
English right being directed on Lille.

The battle which forms the chief feature of Gen. French's report really began on Oct. 11, when
Major Gen. Gough of the Second British Cavalry Brigade, first came in contact with German cavalry
in the woods along the Bethune-Aire Canal. The English cavalry moved toward Hazebrouck, clearing
the way for two army corps, which advanced rapidly in a northeasterly direction. For several
days the progress of the British was only slightly interrupted, except at La Bassée, a high
position, which Field Marshal French mentions as having stubbornly resisted.

