Half the row grows early bush peas. Without overhead irrigation to bother them, unpicked pods
form seed that sprouts excellently the next year. This half of the row is rotary tilled and
fertilized again after the pea vines come out. Then it stays bare through July while capillarity
somewhat recharges the soil. About August 1, I wet the row's surface down with hose and fan
nozzle and sow overwintered cauliflower seed. To keep the cauliflower from stunting I must
lightly hand sprinkle the row's center twice weekly through late September. Were water more
restricted I could start my cauliflower seedlings in a nursery bed and transplant them here
in October.

The other half is home to the Solanaceae: tomato, pepper, and eggplant. I give this row a little
extra width because pea vines run, and I fertigate my Solanaceae, preferring sprawly tomato
varieties that may cover an 8-foot-diameter circle. There's also a couple of extra bare feet
along the outside because the neighboring grasses will deplete soil moisture along the edge
of the garden.

Row 7: Water-Demanding Brassicas

Moving away from irrigation on the other side of the raised bed, I grow a succession of hybrid
broccoli varieties and late fall cauliflower. The broccoli is sown several times, 20 row-feet
each sowing, done about April 15, June 1, and July 15. The late cauliflower goes in about July
1. If necessary I could use much of this row for quick crops that would be harvested before
I wanted to sow broccoli or cauliflower, but I don't need more room. The first sowings of broccoli
are pulled out early enough to permit succession sowings of arugula or other late salad greens.

Row 8: The Trellis

Here I erect a 125-foot-long, 6-foot-tall net trellis for gourmet delicacies like pole peas
and pole beans. The bean vines block almost all water that would to on beyond it and so this
row gets more irrigation than it otherwise might. The peas are harvested early enough to permit
a succession sowing of Purple Sprouting broccoli in mid-July. Purple Sprouting needs a bit
of sprinkling to germinate in the heat of midsummer, but, being as vigorous as kale, once up,
it grows adequately on the overspray from the raised bed. The beans would be overwhelmingly
abundant if all were sown at one time, so I plant them in two stages about three weeks apart.
Still, a great many beans go unpicked. These are allowed to form seed, are harvested before
they quite dry, and crisp under cover away from the sprinklers. We get enough seed from this
row for planting next year, plus all the dry beans we care to eat during winter. Dry beans
are hard to digest and as we age we eat fewer and fewer of them. In previous years I've grown
entire rows of dry legume seeds at the garden's edge.

Row 9: Cucurbits

This row is so wide because here are grown all the spreading cucurbits. The pole beans in row
8 tend to prevent overspray; this dryness is especially beneficial to humidity-sensitive melons,
serendipitously reducing their susceptability to powdery mildew diseases. All cucurbits are
fertigated every three weeks. The squash will have fallen apart by the end of September, melons
are pulled out by mid-September. The area is then tilled and fertilized, making space to transplant
overwintered spring cabbages, other overwintered brassicas, and winter scallions in October.
These transplants are dug from nurseries on the irrigated raised bed. I could also set cold
frames here and force tender salad greens all winter.

Row 10: Unirrigated Potatoes

This single long row satisfies a potato-loving household all winter. The quality of these dry-gardened
tubers is so high that my wife complains if she must buy a few new potatoes from the supermarket
after our supplies have become so sprouty and/or shriveled that they're not tasty any longer.

Chapter 7

The Backyard

Water-Wise Gardener

I am an unusually fortunate gardener. After seven years of struggling on one of the poorest
growing sites in this region we now live on 16 acres of mostly excellent, deep soil, on the
floor of a beautiful, coastal Oregon valley. My house and gardens are perched safely above
the 100-year flood line, there's a big, reliable well, and if I ever want more than 20 gallons
per minute in midsummer, there's the virtually unlimited Umpqua River to draw from. Much like
a master skeet shooter who uses a .410 to make the sport more interesting, I have chosen to
dry garden.

Few are this lucky. These days the majority of North Americans live an urban struggle. Their
houses are as often perched on steep, thinly soiled hills or gooey, difficult clay as on a
tiny fragment of what was once prime farmland. And never does the municipal gardener have one
vital liberty I do: to choose which one-sixth of an acre in his 14-acre "back yard" he'll garden
on this year.

I was a suburban backyard gardener for five years before deciding to homestead. I've frequently
recalled this experience while learning to dry garden. What follows in this chapter are some
strategies to guide the urban in becoming more water-wise.

Water Conservation Is the Most Important First Step

After it rains or after sprinkler irrigation, water evaporates from the surface until a desiccated
earth mulch develops. Frequent light watering increases this type of loss. Where lettuce, radishes,
and other shallow-rooting vegetables are growing, perhaps it is best to accept this loss or
spread a thin mulch to reduce it. But most vegetables can feed deeper, so if wetting the surface
can be avoided, a lot of water can be saved. Even sprinkling longer and less frequently helps
accomplish that. Half the reason that drip systems are more efficient is that the surface isn't
dampened and virtually all water goes deep into the earth. The other half is that they avoiding
evaporation that occurs while water sprays through the air between the nozzle and the soil.
Sprinkling at night or early in the morning, when there is little or no wind, prevents almost
all of this type of loss.

To use drip irrigation it is not necessary to invest in pipes, emitters, filters, pressure
regulators, and so forth. I've already explained how recycled plastic buckets or other large
containers can be improvised into very effective drip emitters. Besides, drip tube systems
are not trouble free: having the beds covered with fragile pipes makes hoeing dicey, while
every emitter must be periodically checked against blockage.

When using any type of drip system it is especially important to relate the amount of water
applied to the depth of the soil to the crops, root development. There's no sense adding more
water than the earth can hold. Calculating the optimum amount of water to apply from a drip
system requires applying substantial, practical intelligence to evaluating the following factors:
soil water-holding capacity and accessible depth; how deep the root systems have developed;
how broadly the water spreads out below each emitter (dispersion); rate of loss due to transpiration.
All but one of these factors--dispersion--are adequately discussed elsewhere in Gardening Without
Irrigation.

A drip emitter on sandy soil moistens the earth nearly straight down with little lateral dispersion;
1 foot below the surface the wet area might only be 1 foot in diameter. Conversely, when you
drip moisture into a clay soil, though the surface may seem dry, 18 inches away from the emitter
and just 3 inches down the earth may become saturated with water, while a few inches deeper,
significant dispersion may reach out nearly 24 inches. On sandy soil, emitters on 12-inch centers
are hardly close enough together, while on clay, 30-or even 36-inch centers are sufficient.

Another important bit of data to enter into your arithmetic: 1 cubic foot of water equals about
5 gallons. A 12-inch-diameter circle equals 0.75 square feet (A = Pi x Radius squared), so
1 cubic foot of water (5 gallons) dispersed from a single emitter will add roughly 16 inches
of moisture to sandy soil, greatly overwatering a medium that can hold only an inch or so of
available water per foot. On heavy clay, a single emitter may wet a 4-foot-diameter circle,
on loams, anywhere in between, 5 gallons will cover a 4-foot-diameter circle about 1 inch deep.
So on deep, clay soil, 10 or even 15 gallons per application may be in order. What is the texture
of your soil, its water-holding capacity, and the dispersion of a drip into it? Probably, it
is somewhere in between sand and clay.

I can't specify what is optimum in any particular situation. Each gardener must consider his
own unique factors and make his own estimation. All I can do is stress again that the essence
of water-wise gardening is water conservation.

Optimizing Space: Planning the Water-Wise Backyard Garden

Intensive gardening is a strategy holding that yield per square foot is the supreme goal; it
succeeds by optimizing as many growth factors as possible. So a raised bed is loosened very
deeply without concern for the amount of labor, while fertility and moisture are supplied virtually
without limit. Intensive gardening makes sense when land is very costly and the worth of the
food grown is judged against organic produce at retail--and when water and nutrients are inexpensive
and/or available in unlimited amounts.

When water use is reduced, yield inevitably drops proportionately. The backyard water-wise
gardener, then, must logically ask which vegetable species will give him enough food or more
economic value with limited space and water. Taking maritime Northwest rainfall patterns into
consideration, here's my best estimation:

Water-Wise Efficiency of Vegetable Crops

(in terms of backyard usage of space and moisture)

EFFICIENT ENOUGH

Early spring-sown crops: peas, broccoli, lettuce, radishes, savoy cabbage, kohlrabi

Overwintered crops: onions, broccoli cauliflower, cabbage, favas beans

Endive Kale

Garden sorrel

Indeterminate tomatoes

Giant kohlrabi

Parsley--leaf and root

heirloom summer squash (sprawly)

Pole beans

Herbs: marjoram, thyme, dill, cilantro, fennel, oregano

Root crops: carrots, beets, parsnips

MARGINAL

Brussels sprouts (late)

Potatoes

Determinate tomatoes

Rutabagas

Eggplant

Leeks

Leeks

Savoy cabbage (late)

Peppers, small fruited

INEFFICIENT

Beans, bush snap

Peppers, bell

Broccoli, summer

Radishes

Cauliflower

Scallions, bulb onions

Celery

Sweet corn

Lettuce

Turnips

Have fun planning your own water-wise garden!

More Reading

About the Interlibrary Loan Service

Agricultural books, especially older ones, are not usually available at local libraries. But
most municipal libraries and all universities offer access to an on-line database listing the
holdings of other cooperating libraries throughout the United States. Almost any book published
in this century will be promptly mailed to the requesting library. Anyone who is serious about
learning by reading should discover how easy and inexpensive (or free) it is to use the Interlibrary
Loan Service.

Carter, Vernon Gill, and Tom, Dale. Topsoil and Civilization.

Norman, Okla.: University of Oklahoma Press, 1974.

The history of civilization's destruction of one ecosystem after another by plowing and deforestation,
and its grave implications for our country's long-term survival.

Cleveland, David A., and Daniela Soleri. Food from Dryland Gardens: An Ecological, Nutritional
and Social Approach to Small-Scale Household Food Production. Tucson: Center for People, Food
and Environment, 1991.

World-conscious survey of low-tech food production in semiarid regions.

Faulkner, Edward H. Plowman's Folly. Norman, Okla.: University of Oklahoma Press, 1943.

This book created quite a controversy in the 1940s. Faulkner stresses the vital importance
of capillarity. He explains how conventional plowing stops this moisture flow.

A thorough yet readable basic soil science text at a level comfortable for university non-science
majors.

Hamaker contradicts our current preoccupation with global warming and makes a believable case
that a new epoch of planetary glaciation is coming, caused by an increase in greenhouse gas.
The book is also a guide to soil enrichment with rock powders.

Nabhan, Gary. The Desert Smells like Rain: A Naturalist in Papago Indian Country. San Francisco:
North Point Press, 1962. New York: Longmans, Green & Co., 1950.

Probably the finest, most human soil science text ever written. Russell avoids unnecessary
mathematics and obscure terminology. I do not recommend the recent in-print edition, revised
and enlarged by a committee.

Smith's visionary solution to upland erosion is growing unirrigated tree crops that produce
cereal-like foods and nuts. Should sit on the "family bible shelf" of every permaculturalist.

Solomon, Stephen J. Growing Vegetables West of the Cascades. Seattle: Sasquatch Books, 1989.

The complete regional gardening textbook.

-------------------------.  Backyard Composting. Portland, Ore.: George van Patten Publishing,
1992.

Especially useful for its unique discussion of the overuse of compost and a nonideological
approach to raising the most nutritious food possible.

Stout presents the original thesis of permanent mulching. San Diego: Rateaver, 1975. Reprinted
from the 1955 Faber and Faber, edition.

Organic farming using long rotations, including deeply rooted green manures developed to a
high art. Turner maintained a productive organic dairy farm using subsoiling and long rotations
involving tilled crops and semipermanent grass/herb mixtures.

ven der Leeden, Frits, Fred L. Troise, and David K. Todd. The Water Encyclopedia, Second Edition.
Chelsea, Mich.: Lewis Publishers, 1990.

Reference data concerning every possible aspect of water.

Weaver, John E., and William E. Bruner. Root Development of Vegetable Crops. New York: McGraw-Hill,
1927.

Contains very interesting drawings showing the amazing depth and extent that vegetable roots
are capable of in favorable soil.

Widtsoe, John A. Dry Farming: A System of Agriculture for Countries Under Low Rainfall. New
York: The Macmillan Company, 1920.

The best single review ever made of the possibilities of dry farming and dry gardening, sagely
discussing the scientific basis behind the techniques. The quality of Widtsoe's understanding
proves that newer is not necessarily better.