     "I narrowly escaped death once. A rebel took deliberate aim
     at me with both barrels of his gun; and the bullets passed
     so close to me that the powder that remained on them burnt
     my cheek. Three of my men, who saw him aim and fire, thought
     that he wounded me each fire; One of them was killed by my
     side, and he fell on me, covering my clothes with his blood;
     and, before the rebel could fire again, I blew his brains
     out with my gun.

     "It was a horrible fight, the worst I was ever engaged
     in,--not even excepting Shiloh. The enemy cried, 'No
     quarter!' but some of them were very glad to take it when
     made prisoners.

     "Col. Allen, of the Sixteenth Texas, was killed in front of
     our regiment, and Brig.-Gen. Walker was wounded. We killed
     about one hundred and eighty of the enemy. The gunboat
     "Choctaw" did good service shelling them. I stood on the
     breastworks after we took them, and gave the elevations and
     direction for the gunboat by pointing my sword; and they
     sent a shell right into their midst, which sent them in all
     directions. Three shells fell there, and sixty-two rebels
     lay there when the fight was over.

            *       *       *       *

     "This battle satisfied the slave-masters of the South that
     their charm was gone; and that the negro as a slave, was
     lost forever. Yet there was one fact connected with the
     battle of Milliken's Bend which will descend to posterity,
     as testimony against the humanity of slave-holders; and that
     is, that no negro was ever found alive that was taken a
     prisoner by the rebels in this fight."

The Department of the Gulf contained a far greater proportion of the Phalanx than did any other
Department, and there were very few, if any, important engagements fought in this Department
in which the Phalanx did not take part.

It is unpleasant here, in view of the valuable services rendered by the Phalanx, to be obliged
to record that the black soldiers were subjected to many indignities, and suffered much at
the hands of their white fellow comrades in arms. Repeated assaults and outrages were committed
upon black men wearing the United States' uniform, not only by volunteers but conscripts from
the various States, and frequently by confederate prisoners who had been paroled by the United
States; these outrages were allowed to take place, without interference by the commanding officers,
who apparently did not observe what was going on.

At Ship Island, Miss., there were three companies of the 13th Maine, General Neal Dow's old
regiment, and seven companies of the 2nd Regiment Phalanx, commanded by Colonel Daniels, which
constituted the garrison at that point. Ship Island was the key to New Orleans. On the opposite
shore was a railroad leading to Mobile by which re-enforcements were going forward to Charleston.
Colonel Daniels conceived the idea of destroying the road to prevent the transportation of
the confederate troops. Accordingly, with about two hundred men he landed at Pascagoula, on
the morning of the 9th of April. Pickets were immediately posted on the outskirts of the town,
while the main body marched up to the hotel. Before long some confederate cavalry, having been
apprised of the movement, advanced, drove in the pickets, and commenced an attack on the force
occupying the town. The cavalry made a bold dash upon the left of the negroes, which was the
work of but a moment; the brave blacks met their charge manfully, and emptied the saddles of
the front rank, which caused the rear ones first to halt and then retire. The blacks were outnumbered,
however, five to one, and finally were forced to abandon the town; they went, taking with them
the stars and stripes which they had hoisted upon the hotel when entering it. They fell back
towards the river to give the gunboat "Jackson" a chance to shell their pursuers, but the movement
resulted in an apparently revengeful act on the part of the crew of that vessel, they having
previously had some of their number killed in the course of a difficulty with a black sentry
at Ship Island.

The commanding officer of the land force, doubtless from prudential reasons, omitted to state
in his report that the men fought their way through the town while being fired upon from house-tops
and windows by boys and women. That the gunboat opened fire directly on them when they were
engaged in a hand to hand conflict, which so completely cut off a number of the men from the
main body of the troops that their capture appeared certain. Major Dumas, however, seeing the
condition of things, put spurs to his horse and went to their succor, reaching them just as
a company of the enemy's cavalry made a charge. The Major, placing himself at the head of the
hard-pressed men, not only repulsed the cavalry and rescued the squad, but captured the enemy's
standard-bearer. The retreating force reached their transport with the loss of only one man;
they brought with them some prisoners and captured flags. Colonel Daniels, in his report, speaks
as follows of the heroism of the soldiers:

       *       *       *       *

     "The expedition was a perfect success, accomplishing all
     that was intended; resulting in the repulse of the enemy in
     every engagement with great loss; whilst our casualty was
     only two killed and eight wounded. Great credit is due to
     the troops engaged, for their unflinching bravery and
     steadiness under this their first fire, exchanging volley
     after volley with the coolness of veterans; and for their
     determined tenacity in maintaining their position, and
     taking advantage of every success that their courage and
     valor gave them; and also to their officers, who were cool
     and determined throughout the action, fighting their
     commands against five times their numbers, and confident
     throughout of success,--all demonstrating to its fullest
     extent that the oppression which they have heretofore
     undergone from the hands of their foes, and the obloquy that
     had been showered upon them by those who should have been
     friends, had not extinguished their manhood, or suppressed
     their bravery, and that they had still a hand to wield the
     sword, and a heart to vitalize its blow.

     "I would particularly call the attention of the Department
     to Major F. E. Dumas, Capt. Villeverd, and Lieuts. Jones and
     Martin, who were constantly in the thickest of the fight,
     and by their unflinching bravery, and admirable handling of
     their commands, contributed to the success of the attack,
     and reflected great honor upon the flag under and for which
     they so nobly struggled. Repeated instances of individual
     bravery among the troops might be mentioned; but it would be
     invidious where all fought so manfully and so well.

     "I have the honor to be, most respectfully your obedient servant,

                                            "N. U. DANIELS,

           "Col. Second Regiment La. N. G. Vols., Commanding Post."

The 2nd Regiment, with the exception of the Colonel, Lieut.-Colonel and Adjutant, was officered
by negroes, many of whom had worn the galling chains of slavery, while others were men of affluence
and culture from New Orleans and vicinity.

The 2nd Regiment had its full share of prejudice to contend with, and perhaps suffered more
from that cause than any other regiment of the Phalanx. Once while loading transports at Algiers,
preparatory to embarking for Ship Island, they came in contact with a section of the famous
Nim's battery, rated as one of the finest in the service. The arms of the 2nd Regiment were
stacked and the men were busy in loading the vessel, save a few who were doing guard duty over
the ammunition stored in a shed on the wharf. One of the battery-men attempted to enter the
shed with a lighted pipe in his mouth, but was prevented by the guard. It was more than the
Celt could stand to be ordered by a negro; watching for a chance when the guard about-faced,
he with several others sprang upon him. The guard gave the Phalanx signal, and instantly hundreds
of black men secured their arms and rushed to the relief of their comrade. The battery-men
jumped to their guns, formed into line and drew their sabres. Lieut.-Colonel Hall, who was
in command of the 2nd Regiment, stepped forward and demanded to know of the commander of the
battery if his men wanted to take the men the guard had arrested. "Yes," was the officer's
reply, "I want you to give them up." "Not until they are dealt with," said Colonel Hall. And
then a shout and yell, such as the Phalanx only were able to give, rent the air, and the abortive
menace was over. The gunners returned their sabres and resumed their work. Col. Hall, who always
had perfect control of his men, ordered the guns stacked, put on a double guard, and the men
of the 2nd Regiment resumed their labor of loading the transport. Of course this was early
in the struggle, and before a general enlistment of the blacks.

The first, second and third regiments of the Phalanx were the nucleus of the one hundred and
eighty that eventually did so much for the suppression of the rebellion and the abolition of
slavery. The 1st and 3rd Regiments went up the Mississippi; the 2nd garrisoned Ship Island
and Fort Pike, on Lake Pontchartrain, after protecting for several months the Opelousa railroad,
so much coveted by the confederates.

A few weeks after the fight of the 2nd Regiment at Pascagoula, General Banks laid siege to
Port Hudson, and gathered there all the available forces in his department. Among these were
the 1st and 3rd Infantry Regiments of the Phalanx. On the 23rd of May the federal forces, having
completely invested the enemy's works and made due preparation, were ordered to make a general
assault along the whole line. The attack was intended to be simultaneous, but in this it failed.
The Union batteries opened early in the morning, and after a vigorous bombardment Generals
Weitzel, Grover and Paine, on the right, assaulted with vigor at 10 A. M., while Gen. Augur
in the center, and General W. T. Sherman on the left, did not attack till 2 P. M.

Never was fighting more heroic than that of the federal army and especially that of the Phalanx
regiments If valor could have triumphed over such odds, the assaulting forces would have carried
the works, but only abject cowardice or pitiable imbecility could have lost such a position
under existing circumstances. The negro regiments on the north side of the works vied with
the bravest, making three desperate charges on the confederate batteries, losing heavily, but
maintaining their position in the advance all the while.

The column in moving to the attack went through the woods in their immediate front, and then
upon a plane, on the farther side of which, half a mile distant, were the enemy's batteries.
The field was covered with recently felled trees, through the interlaced branches of which
the column moved, and for two or more hours struggled through the obstacles, stepping over
their comrades who fell among the entangled brushwood pierced by bullets or torn by flying
missiles, and braved the hurricane of shot and shell.

What did it avail to hurl a few thousand troops against those impregnable works? The men were
not iron, and were they, it would have been impossible for them to have kept erect, where trees
three feet in diameter were crashed down upon them by the enemy's shot; they would have been
but as so many ten-pins set up before skillful players to be knocked down.

The troops entered an enfilading fire from a masked battery which opened upon them as they
neared the fort, causing the column first to halt, then to waver and stagger; but it recovered
and again pressed forward, closing up the ranks as fast as the enemy's shells thinned them.
On the left the confederates had planted a six-gun battery upon an eminence, which enabled
them to sweep the field over which the advancing column moved. In front was the large fort,
while the right of the line was raked by a redoubt of six pieces of artillery. One after another
of the works had been charged, but in vain. The Michigan, New York and Massachusetts troops--braver
than whom none ever fought a battle--had been hurled back from the place, leaving the field
strewn with their dead and wounded. The works must be taken. General Nelson was ordered by
General Dwight to take the battery on the left. The 1st and 3rd Regiments went forward at double
quick time, and they were soon within the line of the enemy's fire. Louder than the thunder
of Heaven was the artillery rending the air shaking the earth itself; cannons, mortars and
musketry alike opened a fiery storm upon the advancing regiments; an iron shower of grape and
round shot, shells and rockets, with a perfect tempest of rifle bullets fell upon them. On
they went and down, scores falling on right and left. "The flag, the flag!" shouted the black
soldiers, as the standard-bearer's body was scattered by a shell. Two file-closers struggled
for its possession; a ball decided the struggle. They fell faster and faster; shrieks, prayers
and curses came up from the fallen and ascended to Heaven. The ranks closed up while the column
turned obliquely toward the point of fire, seeming to forget they were but men. Then the cross-fire
of grape shot swept through their ranks, causing the glittering bayonets to go down rapidly.
"Steady men, steady," cried bold Cailloux; his sword uplifted, his face the color of the sulphureous
smoke that enveloped him and his followers, as they felt the deadly hail which came apparently
from all sides. Captain Cailloux[23] was killed with the colors in his hands; the column seemed
to melt away like snow in sunshine, before the enemy's murderous fire; the pride, the flower
of the Phalanx, had fallen. Then, with a daring that veterans only can exhibit, the blacks
rushed forward and up to the brink and base of the fortified elevation, with a shout that rose
above it. The defenders emptied their rifles, cannon and mortars upon the very heads of the
brave assaulters, making of them a human hecatomb. Those who escaped found their way back to
shelter as best they could.

The battery was not captured; the battle was lost to all except the black soldiers; they, with
their terrible loss, had won and conquered a much greater and stronger battery than that upon
the bluff. Nature seems to have selected the place and appointed the time for the negro to
prove his manhood and to disarm the prejudice that at one time prompted the white troops to
insult and assault the negro soldiers in New Orleans. It was all forgotten and they mingled
together that day on terms of perfect equality. The whites were only too glad to take a drink
from a negro soldier's canteen, for in that trying hour they found a brave and determined ally,
ready to sacrifice all for liberty and country. If greater heroism could be shown than that
of the regiments of the Phalanx already named, surely the 1st Regiment of Engineers displayed
it during the siege at Port Hudson. This regiment, provided with picks and spades for the purpose
of "mining" the enemy's works, often went forward to their labor without any armed support
except the cover of heavy guns, or as other troops happened to advance, to throw up breastworks
for their own protection. It takes men of more than ordinary courage to engage in such work,
without even a revolver or a bayonet to defend themselves against the sallies of an enemy's
troops. Nevertheless this Engineer Regiment of the black Phalanx performed the duty under such
trying and perilous circumstances. Many times they went forward at a double-quick to do duty
in the most dangerous place during an engagement, perhaps to build a redoubt or breastworks
behind a brigade, or to blow up a bastion of the enemy's. "They but reminded the lookers on,"
said a correspondent of a Western newspaper, "of just so many cattle going to a slaughterhouse."

A writer, speaking of the other regiments of the Phalanx, says:

     "They were also on trial that day, and justified the most
     sanguine expectations by their good conduct. Not that they
     fought better than our white veterans; they did not and
     could not."

But there had been so much incredulity avowed regarding the courage of the negroes; so much
wit lavished on the idea of negroes fighting to any purpose, that General Banks was justified
in according a special commendation to the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Regiments, and to the 1st Engineer
Regiment, of the Phalanx, saying, "No troops could be more determined or daring." The 1st lost
its Cailloux, the 2nd its Paine, but the Phalanx won honor for the race it represented.

     [See Appendix for further matter relating to the Department
     of the Gulf.]

FOOTNOTES:

[22] In November, while the 2nd Regiment was guarding the Opelousas railway, about twenty miles
from Algiers, La., their pickets were fired upon, and quite a skirmish and firing was kept
up during the night. Next morning the cane field along the railroad was searched but no trace
of the firing party was found. A company of the 8th Vermont (white) Regiment was encamped below
that of the 2nd Regiment, but they broke camp that night and left. The supposition was that
it was this company who fired upon and drove in the pickets of the Phalanx regiment.

[23] Captain Andre Cailloux fell, gallantly leading his men (Co. E) in the attack. With many
others of the charging column, his body lay between the lines of the Confederates and Federals,
but nearer the works of the former, whose sharpshooters guarded it night and day, and thus
prevented his late comrades from removing it. Several attempts were made to obtain the body,
but each attempt was met with a terrific storm of lead. It was not until after the surrender
that his remains were recovered, and then taken to his native city, New Orleans. The writer
of this volume, himself wounded, was in the city at the time, and witnessed the funeral pageant
of the dead hero, the like of which was never before seen in that, nor, perhaps, in any other
American city, in honor of a dead negro. The negro captains of the 2nd Regiment acted as pall-bearers,
while a long procession of civic societies followed in the rear of detachments of the Phalanx.
A correspondent who witnessed the scene thus describes it:

     " * * * * The arrival of the body developed to the white
     population here that the colored people had powerful
     organizations in the form of civic societies; as the Friends
     of the Order, of which Capt. Cailloux was a prominent
     member, received the body, and had the coffin containing it,
     draped with the American flag, exposed in state in the
     commodious hall. Around the coffin, flowers were strewn in
     the greatest profusion, and candles were kept continually
     burning. All the rites of the Catholic Church were strictly
     complied with. The guard paced silently to and fro, and
     altogether it presented as solemn a scene as was ever
     witnessed.

     "In due time, the band of the Forty-second Massachusetts
     Regiment made its appearance, and discoursed the customary
     solemn airs. The officiating priest, Father Le Maistre, of
     the Church of St. Rose of Lima, who has paid not the least
     attention to the excommunication and denunciations issued
     against him by the archbishop of this this diocese, then
     performed the Catholic service for the dead. After the
     regular services, he ascended to the president's chair, and
     delivered a glowing and eloquent eulogy on the virtues of
     the deceased. He called upon all present to offer
     themselves, as Cailloux had done, martyrs to the cause of
     justice, freedom, and good government. It was a death the
     proudest might envy.

     "Immense crowds of colored people had by this time gathered
     around the building, and the streets leading thereto were
     rendered almost impassable. Two companies of the Sixth
     Louisiana (colored) Regiment, from their camp on the Company
     Canal, were there to act as an escort; and Esplanade Street,
     for more than a mile, was lined with colored societies, both
     male and female, in open order, waiting for the hearse to
     pass through.

     "After a short pause, a sudden silence fell upon the crowd,
     the band commenced playing a dirge; and the body was brought
     from the hall on the shoulders of eight soldiers, escorted
     by six members of the society, and six colored captains, who
     acted as pall-bearers. The corpse was conveyed to the hearse
     through a crowd composed of both white and black people, and
     in silence profound as death itself. Not a sound was heard
     save the mournful music of the band, and not a head in all
     that vast multitude but was uncovered.

     "The procession then moved off in the following order: The
     hearse containing the body, with Capts. J. W. Ringgold, W.
     B. Barrett, S. J. Wilkinson, Eugene Mailleur, J. A. Glea,
     and A. St. Leger, (all of whom, we believe, belong to the
     Second Louisiana Native Guards), and six members of The
     Friends of the Order, as pall-bearers; about a hundred
     convalescent sick and wounded colored soldiers; the two
     companies of the Sixth Regiment; a large number of colored
     officers of all native guard regiments; the carriages
     containing Capt. Cailloux's family, and a number of army
     officers; followed by a large number of private individuals,
     and thirty-seven civic and religious societies.

     "After moving through the principal down-town streets the
     body was taken to the Beinville-street cemetery, and there
     interred with military honors due his rank." * *

     The following lines were penned at the time:

            ANDRE CAILLOUX.

          He lay just where he fell,
          Soddening in a fervid summer's sun.
          Guarded by an enemy's hissing shell,
          Rotting beneath the sound of rebels' gun
          Forty consecutive days,
          In sight of his own tent.
          And the remnant of his regiment.

          He lay just where he fell.
          Nearest the rebel's redoubt and trench,
          Under the very fire of hell,
          A volunteer in a country's defence,
          Forty consecutive days.
          And not a murmur of discontent,
          Went from the loyal black regiment.

          A flag of truce couldn't save,
          No, nor humanity could not give
          This sable warrior a hallowed grave.
          Nor army of the Gulf retrieve.
          Forty consecutive days,
          His lifeless body pierced and rent,
          Leading in assault the black regiment.

          But there came days at length,
          When Hudson felt their blast,
          Though less a thousand in strength,
          For "our leader" vowed the last;
          Forty consecutive days
          They stormed, they charged, God sent
          Victory to the loyal black regiment.

          He lay just where he fell,
          And now the ground was their's,
          Around his mellowed corpse, heavens tell,
          How his comrades for freedom swears.
          Forty consecutive nights
          The advance pass-word went.
          Captain Cailloux of the black regiment.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ARMY OF THE FRONTIER.

At the Far West the fires of liberty and union burned no less brightly upon the altar of the
negro's devotion than at the North, East and South. The blacks of Iowa responded with alacrity
to the call of the governor to strengthen the Army of the Ohio. Though the negro population
was sparse--numbering in 1860, only 1069--and thinly scattered over the territory, and were
enjoying all the rights and privileges of American citizenship, nevertheless they gave up the
luxuries of happy homes, threw down their implements of peaceful industry, broke from the loving
embrace of wives and children, and with the generous patriotism which has always characterized
the conduct of the race, they rushed to the aid of their yet oppressed countrymen, and the
defense of the Union.

The Gibralters of the Mississippi, Vicksburg and Port Hudson, had fallen by the might of the
Union armies; the Mississippi was open to the Gulf. The shattered ranks of the victorious troops,
and the depleted ranks of the Phalanx, rent and torn by the enemy during the long siege of
Port Hudson, lent an inspiring zeal to the negroes of the country, which manifested itself
in the rapidity of the enlistment of volunteers to fill up the gaps.

In August, 1863, the authorities of the State of Iowa began the enlistment of negroes as a
part of her quota. Keokuk was selected as the place of rendezvous. On the 11th of the following
October nine full companies under the command of Colonel John G. Hudson, took the oath of allegiance
to the United States, and became a part of the active military force of the National Government.
The regiment was designated the 1st A. D. (African Descent) Regiment Iowa Volunteers, and was
mustered for three years, or during the war. Leaving Keokuk Barracks, the regiment proceeded
to St. Louis, Mo., and was quartered in Benton Barracks, as a part of the forces under command
of Major-General J. M. Schofield. Here company G. joined the regiment, making ten full companies.
A memorable and patriotic incident occurred here: Mrs. I. N. Triplet, in behalf of the ladies
of the State of Iowa, and of the city of Muscatine, presented the regiment with a beautiful
silk national flag, which was carried through the storms of battle, and returned at the close
of the war to the State.

On the first day of January, 1864, the regiment was ordered to report to General Beaufort at
Helena, Ark., becoming a part of the garrison of that place until the following March.

One Sergeant Phillips, with some others, agitated the propriety of refusing to accept the seven
dollars per month offered them by the Government, and of refusing to do duty on account of
it. Sergeant Barton, however, held it was better to serve without pay than to refuse duty,
as the enforcement of the President's Emancipation Proclamation was essential to the freedom
of the negro race. To this latter the regiment agreed, and passed concurrent resolutions, which
quelled a discussion which otherwise might have led to mutiny.

While the regiment was at Helena it took part in several skirmishes and captured a number of
prisoners. In July, Colonel W. S. Brooks, in command of the 56th, 60th, and a detachment of
the 3rd Artillery Phalanx Regiment, with two field guns, sallied out of Helena and proceeded
down the Mississippi River, to the mouth of White River, on a transport. Here the troops disembarked.
The next morning, after marching all night, Brooks halted his command for breakfast; arms were
stacked and the men became scattered over the fields. Suddenly, General Dobbins, at the head
of a superior confederate force, made an attack upon them; the confederates at first formed
no regular line of battle, but rushed pell-mell on the scattered federals, intending, doubtless,
to annihilate them at once. The Union men soon recovered their arms, but before they got into
line, their commander, Colonel Brooks, had been killed, and Captain Ransey of Co. C, 60th Regiment,
assumed command. The men of the Phalanx, though they had had but a short time to rest from
a long march, rallied with the ardor of veterans, and fought with that desperation that men
display when they realize that the struggle is either victory or death. It was not a question
of numbers with them; it was one of existence, and the Phalanx resolved itself into a seeming
column of iron to meet the foe as it rushed over the bodies of their dead and wounded with
the rage of madmen.

The two field guns, skillfully handled by black artillery-men, did good work, plowing huge
furrows through the assailants and throwing them into confusion at every charge. Still the
confederates, having finally organized into line of battle, continued to charge after each
repulse, pouring a terrific fire upon the United States force at each advance. It seemed as
if the Phalanx must surrender; they were outnumbered two to one, and every line officer was
dead or wounded. Sergeant Triplet was directing the fire of Company C; the artillery sergeant
was in command of the field guns, and worked them well for two long hours. The enemy's sharpshooters
stationed in the trees no longer selected their victims, for one man of the Phalanx was as
conspicuous as another.

Yet another assault was made; firm stood the little band of iron men, not flinching, not moving,
though the dead lay thick before them. The cannon belched out their grape shot, the musketry
rattled, and once more the enemy fled back to the woods with ranks disordered. Thus from six
o'clock till noonday did the weary soldiers hold their foes back. The situation became critical
with the Phalanx. Their ammunition was nearly exhausted; a few more rounds and their bayonets
would be their only protection against a massacre; this fact however, did not cool their determination.

In front and on their flanks the enemy began massing for a final onset. For five hours the
Phalanx had fought like tigers, against a ruthless foe, and though no black flag warned them,
they were not unmindful of the fate of their comrades at Fort Pillow. General Dobbins was evidently
preparing to sweep the field. Several times already had he sent his men to annihilate the blacks,
and as many times had they been repulsed. There was no time for the Phalanx soldiers to manoeuvre;
they were in the closing jaws of death, and though they felt the day was lost, their courage
did not forsake them; it was indeed a dreadful moment. The enemy was about to move upon them,
when suddenly a shout,--not the yell of a foe, was heard in the enemy's rear, and the next
moment a detachment of the 15th Illinois Cavalry, under command of Major Carminchæl, broke
through the confederate ranks and rushed to the support of the Phalanx, aligning themselves
with the black soldiers, amid the cheers of the latter. Gathering up their dead and wounded,
the federal force now began a retreat, stubbornly yielding, inch by inch, each foot of ground,
until night threw her mantle of darkness over the scene and the confederates ceased their firing.
The Phalanx loss was 50, while that of the enemy was 150. At the beginning couriers were dispatched
to Helena for re-enforcements, and Colonel Hudson, with the remainder of the Phalanx troops,
reached them at night too late to be of any assistance, as the confederates did not follow
the retreating column.

Two days later, Colonel Hudson, with all the available men of the two Phalanx regiments,--60th,
56th and a detachment of the 3rd Phalanx artillery, with two cannons,--went down the Mississippi
and up the White river, disembarked and made a three days march across the country, where the
enemy was found entrenched. The Phalanx, after a spirited contest, drove them out of their
works, burned their store, captured a few Texas rangers and returned to Helena. In March, 1865,
the 60th Regiment was ordered to join Brig.-Gen. Reynolds' command at Little Rock, where the
regiment was brigaded with the 57th, 59th and 83rd Phalanx regiments. The brigade was ordered
to Texas overland, but the surrender of General Lee to Grant obviated this march. The gallant
60th was mustered out at Davenport, Iowa, on the 2nd of November, 1865, "where," says Sergeant
Burton, the regimental historian, "they were greeted by the authorities and the loyal thousands
of Iowa."

Kansas has undoubtedly the honor of being the first State in the Union to begin the organization
of negroes as soldiers for the Federal army. The State was admitted into the Union January
29, 1861, after a long reign of hostilities within her borders, carried on by the same character
of men and strictly for the same purpose which brought on the war of the Great Rebellion. In
fact, it was but a transfer of hostilities from Missouri and Kansas to South Carolina and Virginia.
Missouri and the South had been whipped out of Kansas and the territory admitted into the Union
as a free State. This single fact was accepted by the South as a precursor of the policy of
the incoming Republican administration, and three Southern senators resigned or left the United
States Senate before the vote was taken for the admission of Kansas. The act of admitting Kansas
as a free State, was the torch that inflamed the South, and led to the firing upon Fort Sumter
the following April. The men of Kansas had long been inured to field service, and used to practice
with Sharps' rifles. The men of Kansas, more than in any other State of the Union, had a right
to rush to the defence of the Federal government, and they themselves felt so.

On the 9th of February, eleven days after the admission of the State into the Union, Governor
Robinson took the oath of office, and on the 15th of April President Lincoln called for seventy-five
thousand volunteers. The first regiment responded to the call by the close of May; others speedily
followed, until Kansas had in the field 20,000 soldiers. Of the regiments and companies which
represented this State in the Federal army, several were composed of negroes, with a slight
mixture of Indians.

It has been no easy task to learn about these regiments, but, after a long search, the writer
has been enabled, through the patriotic efforts of Governor Crawford, of Kansas, who is also
ex-Colonel of the 2nd Kansas Regiment, to find Mr. J. B. McAfee, late chaplain of the same
regiment and Adjutant-General of Kansas, now engaged in business in Topeka. With the finding
of Mr. McAfee came another difficulty; the report of the Adjutant-General, containing an account
of the regiments in the war, had been accidentally burned before leaving the printing office.
This difficulty was overcome, however, by the consideration ever shown the negro by Mr. McAfee,
who kindly loaned his only volume of the "Military History of Kansas."

The service rendered by the Phalanx soldiery of Kansas stands second to none upon the records
of that State. Their patriotism was nothing less than a fitting return for the love of liberty
shown by the Free State men in rescuing Kansas from the clutches of the slave power. The discussions
at the national capitol pointed Kansas out to the negro as a place where he might enjoy freedom
in common with all other American citizens. He regarded it then as he does now,[24] the acme
of Republican States. Those negroes who enjoyed and appreciated the sentiment that made her
so, were determined as far as they were able, to stand by the men who had thus enlarged the
area of freedom.

Without comment upon the bravery of these troops, the report is submitted of their conduct
in camp, field, on the march and in battle, as made by those who commanded them on various
occasions.

"On the 4th day of August, 1862, Captain James M. Williams, Co. F, 5th Kansas Cavalry, was
appointed by Hon. James H. Lane, Recruiting Commissioner for that portion of Kansas lying north
of the Kansas River, for the purpose of recruiting and organizing a regiment of infantry for
the United States service, to be composed of men of African descent. He immediately commenced
the work of recruiting by securing the muster-in of recruiting officers with the rank of 2nd
Lieutenant, and by procuring supplies from the Ordnance Quartermaster and Commissary departments,
and by establishing in the vicinity of Leavenworth a camp of rendezvous and instruction.

"Capt. H. C. Seaman was about the same time commissioned with like authority for that portion
of Kansas lying south of the Kansas river. The work of recruiting went forward with rapidity,
the intelligent portion of the colored people entering into the work heartily, and evincing
by their actions a willing readiness to link their future and share the perils with their white
brethren in the war of the rebellion, which then waged with such violence as to seriously threaten
the nationality and life of the Republic.

"Within sixty days five hundred men were recruited and placed in camp, and a request made that
a battallion be mustered into the United States service. This request was not complied with,
and the reasons assigned were wholly unsatisfactory, yet accompanied with assurances of such
a nature as to warrant the belief that but a short time would elapse ere the request would
be complied with.

"In the meantime complications with the civil authorities in the Northern District had arisen,
which at one time threatened serious results. These complications originated from the following
causes, each affecting different classes:

"1st.--An active sympathy with the rebellion.

"2nd.--An intolerant prejudice against the colored race, which would deny them the honorable
position in society which every soldier is entitled to, even though he gained that position
at the risk of his life in the cause of the nation, which could ill afford to refuse genuine
sympathy and support from any quarter.

"3rd.--On the part of a few genuine loyalists who believed that this attempt to enlist colored
men would not be approved by the War Department, and that the true interests of the colored
man demanded that their time should not be vainly spent in the effort.

"4th.--A large class who believed that the negro did not possess the necessary qualifications
to make efficient soldiers, and that consequently the experiment would result in defeat, disaster
and disgrace.

"Col. Williams, acting under the orders of his military superiors felt that it was no part
of his duty to take council of any or all of these classes. He saw no course for him to pursue
but to follow his instructions to the letter. Consequently, when the civil authorities placed
themselves in direct opposition to those of the military, by arresting and confining the men
of the command on the most frivolous charges, and indicting their commanders for crime, such
as unlawfully restraining persons of their liberty, &c., by enforcing proper military discipline,
he ignored the right of the civil authorities to interfere with his military actions in a military
capacity and under proper authority.

"On the 28th of October, 1862, a command consisting of detachments from Captain Seaman's and
Captain William's recruits, were moved and camped near Butler. This command--about two hundred
and twenty-five men, under Captain Seaman,--was attacked by a confederate force of about five
hundred, commanded by Colonel Cockrell but after a severe engagement the enemy was defeated
with considerable loss. The negro loss was ten killed and twelve wounded, including Captain
A. J. Crew; a gallant young officer, being among the first mentioned. The next morning the
command was re-enforced by a few recruits under command of Captain J. M. Williams, when the
enemy was pursued a considerable distance but without further fighting. This is supposed to
have been the first engagement in the war in which colored troops were actually engaged. The
work of recruiting, drilling and disciplining the regiment was continued under the adverse
circumstances until the 13th of January, 1863, when a battallion of six companies, formed by
the consolidation of Colonel Williams' recruits with those of Captain Seaman, was mustered
into the U. S. service by Lieutenant Sabin, of the regular army. Between January 13th and May
2nd, 1863, the other four companies were organized, when the regimental organization was completed,
appears by the roster of the regiment.

"Immediately after its organization, the regiment was ordered to Baxter Springs, where it arrived
in May, 1863, and the work of drilling the regiment was vigorously prosecuted.

"Parts of two companies of the regiment, and a detachment of cavalry, and one piece of artillery,
made a diversion on Shawnee, Mo. attacked and dispersed a small opposing force and captured
five prisoners.

"While encamped here, on the 18th of May, a foraging party, consisting of twenty-five men from
the Phalanx regiment and twenty men of the 2nd Kansas Battery, Major R. G. Ward commanding,
was sent into Jasper County, Mo. This party was surprised and attacked by a force of three
hundred confederates commanded by Major Livingston, and defeated, with a loss of sixteen killed
and five prisoners, three of which belonged to the 2nd Kansas Battery and two of the black
regiment. The men of the 2nd Kansas Battery were afterwards exchanged under a flag of truce
for a like number of prisoners captured by the negro regiment. Livingston refused to exchange
the black prisoners in his possession, and gave as his excuse that he should hold them subject
to the orders of the confederate War Department. Shortly after this Col. Williams received
information that one of the prisoners held by Livingston had been murdered by the enemy. He
immediately sent a flag of truce to Livingston demanding the body of the person who committed
the barbarous act. Receiving an evasive and unsatisfactory reply, Col. Williams determined
to convince the Major that was a game at which two could play, and directed that one of the
prisoners in his possession be shot, and within thirty minutes the order was executed. He immediately
informed Major Livingston of his action, sending the information by the same party that brought
the despatch to him. Suffice it to say that this ended the barbarous practice of murdering
prisoners of war, so far as Livingston's command was concerned.

"Colonel Williams says:

     'I visited the scene of this engagement the morning after
     its occurrence, and for the first time beheld the horrible
     evidences of the demoniac spirit of these rebel fiends in
     their treatment of our dead and wounded. Men were found with
     their brains beaten out with clubs, and the bloody weapons
     left by their sides and their bodies most horribly
     mutilated.'

"It was afterwards ascertained that the force who attacked this foraging party consisted partially
of citizens of the neighborhood, who, while enjoying the protection of our armies, had collected
together to assist the rebel forces in this attack. Colonel Williams directed that the region
of country within a radius of five miles from the scene of conflict should be devastated, and
is of opinion that this effectually prevented a like occurrence in the same neighborhood.

"Subsequently, while on this expedition, the command captured a prisoner in arms who had upon
his person the evidence of having been paroled by the commanding officer at Fort Scott, Kansas,
he was shot on the spot.

"The regiment remained in camp at Baxter Springs until the 27th of June, 1863, when it struck
tents and marched for Fort Gibson in connection with a large supply train from Fort Scott en
route to the former place.

"Colonel Williams had received information that satisfied him that the train would be attacked
in the neighborhood of Cabin Creek, Cherokee Nation. He communicated this information to Lieutenant-Colonel
Dodd, of the 2nd Colorado Infantry, who was in command of the escort, and volunteered to move
his regiment in such manner as would be serviceable in case the expected attack should be made.
The escort proper to the train consisted of six companies of the 2nd Colorado Infantry, a detachment
of three companies of cavalry from the 6th and 9th Kansas, and one section of the 2nd Kansas
Battery. This force was joined, on the 28th of June, by three hundred men from the Indian Brigade,
commanded by Major Foreman, making altogether a force of about eight hundred effective men.

"On arriving at Cabin Creek, July 1st, 1863, the rebels were met in force--under command of
Gen. Cooper. Some skirmishing occurred on that day, when it was ascertained that the enemy
occupied a strong position on the south bank of the creek, and upon trial it was found that
the stream was not fordable for infantry, on account of a recent shower, but it was supposed
that the swollen current would have sufficiently subsided by the next morning to allow the
infantry to cross. The regiment then took a strong position on the north side of the stream
and camped for the night. After a consultation of officers, it was agreed that the train should
be parked in the open prairie and guarded by three companies of the 2nd Colorado and a detachment
of one hundred men of the 1st Colorado, and that the balance of the troops, Col. Williams commanding,
should engage the enemy and drive him from his position.

"Accordingly, the next morning, July 2nd, 1863, the command moved, which consisted of the 1st
Kansas Volunteer Colored Infantry, three companies of the 2nd Colorado Infantry, commanded
by the gallant Major Smith, of that regiment, the detachments of cavalry and Indian troops
before mentioned and four pieces of artillery, making altogether a force of about twelve hundred
men. With this force, after an engagement of two hours duration, the enemy was dislodged and
driven from his position in great disorder, with a loss of one hundred killed and wounded and
eight prisoners. The loss on our side was eight killed and twenty-five wounded, including Major
Foreman, who was shot from his horse while attempting to lead his men across the creek under
the fire of the enemy, and Captain Ethan Earl, of the 1st Colored, who was wounded at the head
of his company. This was the first battle in which the whole regiment had been engaged, and
here they evinced a coolness and true soldiery spirit which inspired the officers in command
with that confidence which subsequent battle scenes satisfactorily proved was not unfounded.

"The road being now open, the entire command proceeded to Fort Gibson, where it arrived on
the evening of the 5th of July, 1863. On the 16th of July the entire force at Fort Gibson,
under command of Gen. Blunt, moved upon the enemy, about six thousand strong, commanded by
Gen. Cooper, and encamped at Honey Springs, twenty miles south of Fort Gibson. Our forces came
upon the enemy on the morning of the 17th of July, and after a sharp and bloody engagement
of two hours' duration, the enemy was totally defeated, with a loss of four hundred killed
and wounded, and one hundred prisoners. At the height of the engagement, Gen. Blunt ordered
Colonel Williams to move his regiment against that portion of the enemy's line held by the
29th and 30th Texas regiments and a rebel battery, with directions to charge them if he thought
he could carry and hold the position. The regiment was moved at a shoulder arms, pieces loaded
and bayonets fixed, under a sharp fire, to within forty paces of the rebel lines, without firing
a shot. The regiment then halted and poured into their ranks a well directed volley of 'buck
and ball' from the entire line, such as to throw them into perfect confusion, from which they
could not immediately recover. Col. Williams' intention was, after the delivery of this volley,
to charge their line and capture their battery, which the effect of this volley had doubtless
rendered it possible for him to accomplish. But he was at that instant rendered insensible
from gunshot wounds, and the next officer in rank, Lieutenant-Colonel Bowles, not being aware
of his intentions, the project was not fully carried out. Had the movement been made as contemplated,
the entire rebel line must have been captured. As it was, most of the enemy escaped, receiving
a lesson, however, which taught them not to despise on the battle field the race they had long
tyrannized over as having 'no rights which a white man was bound to respect.'

"Colonel Williams says:

     'I had long been of the opinion that this race had a right
     to kill rebels, and this day proved their capacity for the
     work. Forty prisoners and one battle flag fell into the
     hands of my regiment on this field.'

"The loss to the regiment in this engagement was five killed and thirty-two wounded. After
this, the regiment returned to Fort Gibson and went into camp, where it remained until the
month of September, when it again moved with the Division against the confederate force under
General Cooper, who fled at our approach.

"After a pursuit of one hundred miles, and across the Canadian river to Perryville, in the
Choctaw Nation, all hopes of bringing them to an engagement was abandoned, and the command
returned to camp on the site of the confederate Fort Davis, situated on the south side of the
Arkansas river, near its junction with Grand river.

"The regiment remained in this camp, doing but little duty, until October, when orders were
received to proceed to Fort Smith, where it arrived during the same month. At this point it
remained until December 1st, making a march to Waldron and returning via Roseville, Arkansas,
and in the same month went into winter quarters at the latter place, situated fifty miles east
of Fort Smith, on the Arkansas river. The regiment remained at Roseville until March, 1864,
when the command moved to join the forces of Gen. Steele, then about starting on what was known
as the Camden Expedition. Joining Gen. Steele's command at the Little Missouri river, distant
twenty-two miles northeast of Washington, Arkansas, the entire command moved upon the enemy,
posted on the west side of Prairie de Anne, and within fifteen miles of Washington. The enemy
fled, and our forces occupied their works without an engagement.

"The pursuit of the enemy in this direction was abandoned. The command arrived at Camden on
the 16th of April, 1864, and occupied the place with its strong fortifications without opposition.
On the day following, Colonel Williams started with five hundred men of the 1st Colorado, two
hundred Cavalry, detailed from the 2nd, 6th and 14th, Kansas regiments, and one section of
the 2nd Indian Battery, with a train to load forage and provisions at a point twenty miles
west of Camden, on the Washington road. On the 17th he reached the place and succeeded in loading
about two-thirds of the train, which consisted of two hundred wagons. At dawn the command moved
towards Camden, and loaded the balance of the wagons from plantations by the wayside. At a
point fourteen miles west of Camden the advance encountered a small force of the enemy, who,
after a slight skirmishing, retreated down the road in such a manner as to lead Col. Williams
to suspect that this movement was a feint intended to cover other movements or to draw the
command into an ambuscade.

"Just previous to this he had been re-enforced by a detachment of three hundred men of the
18th Iowa Infantry, and one hundred additional cavalry, commanded by Capt. Duncan, of the 18th
Iowa.

"In order to prevent any surprise, all detached foraging parties were called in, and the original
command placed in the advance, leaving the rear in charge of Captain Duncan's command, with
orders to keep flankers well out and to guard cautiously against a surprise. Colonel Williams
at the front, with skirmishers and flankers well out, advanced cautiously to a point about
one and a half miles distant, sometimes called Cross Roads, but more generally known as Poison
Springs, where he came upon a skirmish line of the enemy, which tended to confirm his previous
suspicion of the character and purpose of the enemy. He therefore closed up the train as well
as possible in this thickly timbered region, and made the necessary preparations for fighting.
He directed the cavalry, under Lieutenant Henderson, of the 6th, and Mitchell, of the 2nd,
to charge and penetrate the rebel line of skirmishers, in order to develop their strength and
intentions. The movement succeeded most admirably in its purposes, and the development was
such that it convinced Colonel Williams that he had before him a struggle of no ordinary magnitude.

"The cavalry, after penetrating the skirmish line, came upon a strong force of the enemy, who
repulsed and forced them back to their original line, not, however, without hard fighting and
severe loss on our part in killed and wounded, including in the latter the gallant Lieutenant
Henderson, who afterwards fell into the hands of the enemy.

"The enemy now opened on our lines with ten pieces of artillery--six in front and four on the
right flank. From a prisoner Colonel Williams learned that the force of the enemy was from
eight to ten thousand, commanded by Generals Price and Maxey. These developments and this information
convinced him that he could not hope to defeat the enemy; but as there was no way to escape
with the train except through their lines, and as the train and its contents were indispensable
to the very existence of our forces at Camden, who were then out of provisions, he deemed it
to be his duty to defend the train to the last extremity, hoping that our forces at Camden,
on learning of the engagement, would attack the enemy in his rear, thus relieving his command
and saving the train.

"With this determination, he fought the enemy's entire force from 10 A. M. until 2 P. M., repulsing
three successive assaults and inflicting upon the enemy severe loss.

"In his report Colonel Williams says:

     'The conflict during these four hours was the most terrific
     and deadly in its character of any that has ever fallen
     under my observation.'

"At 2 P. M. nearly one-half of our force engaged had been placed hors de combat, and the remainder
were out of ammunition. No supplies arriving, the Colonel was reluctantly compelled to abandon
the train to the enemy and save as much of the command as possible by taking to the swamps
and canebrakes and making for Camden by a circuitous route, thereby preventing pursuit by cavalry.
In this manner most of the command that was not disabled in the field reached Camden during
the night of the 18th. For a more specific and statistical report of this action, in which
the loss to the 1st Colored alone was 187 men and officers, the official report of Colonel
J. M. Williams is herewith submitted:

                         'CAMDEN, ARKANSAS. April 24, 1867.

     'CAPTAIN:--I have the honor to submit the following report
     of a foraging expedition under my command:

     'In obedience to verbal orders received from
     Brigadier-General Thayer, I left Camden, Arkansas on the
     11th instant with 695 men and two guns, with a forage train
     of 198 wagons.

     'I proceeded westerly on the Washington road a distance of
     eighteen miles, where I halted the train and dispatched part
     of it in different directions to load; one hundred wagons
     with a large part of the command, under Major Ward, being
     sent six miles beyond the camp. These wagons returned to
     camp at midnight, nearly all loaded with corn.

     'At sunrise on the 18th, the command started on the return,
     loading the balance of the train as it proceeded, there
     being but a few wagon loads of corn to be found at any one
     place. I was obliged to detail portions of the command in
     different directions to load the wagons, until nearly all of
     my available force was so employed.

     'At a point known as Cross Roads, four miles west of my
     camping ground, I was met by a re-enforcement of three
     hundred and seventy-five men of the 18th Iowa Infantry,
     commanded by Capt. Duncan, twenty-five men of the 6th
     Kansas, Lieut. Phillips commanding, forty-five men of the
     2nd Kansas Cavalry, Lieut. Ross commanding, twenty men of
     the 14th Kansas Cavalry, Lieut. Smith commanding, and two
     mountain howitzers from the 6th Kansas Cavalry, Lieut.
     Walker commanding,--in all, 465 men and two mountain
     howitzers. These, added to my former command, made my entire
     force consist of eight hundred and seventy-five, two hundred
     and eighty-five cavalry, and four guns. But the excessive
     fatigue of the preceeding day, coming as it did at the close
     of a toilsome march of twenty-four hours without halting,
     had so affected the infantry that fully one hundred of the
     1st Kansas Colored were rendered unfit for duty. Many of the
     cavalry had, in violation of orders, straggled from their
     command, so that at this time my effective force did not
     exceed one thousand men.

     'At a point one mile east of this, my advance came upon a
     picket of the enemy, which was driven back one mile, when a
     line of the enemy's skirmishers presented itself. Here I
     halted the train, formed a line of the small force I then
     had in advance, and ordered that portion of the 1st Kansas
     Colored which had previously been guarding the rear of the
     train to the front, and gave orders for the train to be
     packed as closely as the nature of the ground would permit.
     I also opened a fire upon the enemy's line from the section
     of the 2nd Indiana Battery, for the double purpose of
     ascertaining if possible if the enemy had artillery in
     position in front, and also to draw in some foraging parties
     which had previously been dispatched upon either flank of
     the train. No response was elicited save a brisk fire from
     the enemy's skirmishers.

     'Meanwhile, the remainder of the first Kansas Colored had
     come to the front, as also three detachments, which formed
     part of the original escort, which I formed in line facing
     to the front, with a detachment of the 14th Kansas Cavalry,
     on my right, and detachments of the 2nd and 6th Kansas
     Cavalry on the left flank. I also sent orders to Capt.
     Duncan, commanding the 18th Iowa Infantry, to so dispose of
     his regiment and the cavalry and howitzers which came out
     with him as to protect the rear of the train, and to keep a
     sharp lookout for a movement upon his rear and right flank.

     'Meanwhile a movement of the enemy's infantry toward my
     right flank had been observed through the thick brush which
     covered the face of the country in that direction. Seeing
     this, I ordered forward the cavalry on my right, under
     Lieuts. Mitchell and Henderson, with orders to press the
     enemy's line, force it if possible, and at all events to
     ascertain his position and strength, fearing as I did that
     the silence of the enemy in front was but for the purpose of
     drawing me on to the open ground which lay in my front. At
     this juncture, a rebel rode into my lines and inquired for
     Col. DeMorse. From him I learned that General Price was in
     command of the rebel force and that Col. DeMorse was in
     command of the force on my right.

     'The cavalry had advanced but four hundred yards, when a
     brisk fire of musketry was opened upon them from the brush,
     which they returned with true gallantry, but were forced to
     fall back. In this skirmish many of the cavalry were
     unhorsed, and Lieut. Henderson, of the 6th Kansas Cavalry,
     fell, wounded in the abdomen, while bravely and gallantly
     urging his command forward.

     'In the meantime I formed five companies of the 1st Kansas
     Colored, with one piece of artillery, on my right flank, and
     ordered up to their assistance four companies of the 18th
     Iowa Infantry. Soon my orderly returned from the rear with a
     message from Captain Duncan, stating that he was so closely
     pressed in the rear by the enemy's infantry and artillery
     that the men could not be spared.

     'At this moment the enemy opened on me with two
     batteries,--one of six pieces, in front, and one, of three
     pieces, on my right flank,--pouring in an incessant and well
     directed cross-fire of shot and shell. At the same time he
     advanced his infantry both in front and on my right flank.

     'From the force of the enemy--now the first time made
     visible--I saw that I could not hope to defeat him, but
     still resolved to defend the train to the last, hoping that
     re-enforcements would come up from Camden.

     'I suffered them to approach within one hundred yards of my
     line, when I opened upon them with musketry charged with
     buck and ball, and after a contest of fifteen minutes
     duration compelled them to fall back. Two fresh regiments
     coming up, they again rallied and advanced upon my line,
     this time with colors flying and continuous cheering, so
     loud as to drown even the roar of the musketry. Again I
     suffered them to approach even nearer than before, and
     opened upon them with buck and ball, their artillery still
     pouring in a cross-fire of shot and shell over the heads of
     their infantry, and mine replying with vigor and effect. And
     thus, for another quarter of an hour, the battle was waged
     with desperate fury. The noise and din of this almost hand
     to hand conflict was the loudest and most terrific it has
     ever been my lot to listen to. Again were they forced to
     fall back, and twice during this conflict were their colors
     brought to the ground, but as often raised.

     'During these engagements fully one-half of my infantry
     engaged were either killed or wounded. Three companies were
     left without any officers, and seeing the enemy again
     re-enforced with fresh troops, it became evident that I
     could hold my line but little longer. I now directed Maj.
     Ward to hold the line until I could ride back and form the
     18th Iowa in proper shape to support the retreat of the
     advanced line.

     'Meanwhile, so many of the gunners had been shot from around
     their pieces that there were not enough to serve the guns,
     so I ordered them to retire to the rear of the train, and
     report to the cavalry officer there. Just as I was starting
     for the line of the 18th Iowa, my horse was shot, which
     delayed me until another could be procured, when I rode to
     the rear and formed a line of battle facing in the direction
     the enemy was advancing.

     'Again did the enemy hurl his columns against the remnant of
     men that formed my front and right flank, and again were
     they met as gallantly as before. But my decimated ranks were
     unable to resist the overpowering force hurled against them,
     and after their advance had been checked, seeing that our
     lines were completely flanked on both sides, Major Ward gave
     the order to retire, which was done in good order, forming
     and charging the enemy twice before reaching the rear of the
     train.

     'With the assistance of Major Ward and other officers, I
     succeeded in forming a portion of the 1st Kansas Colored in
     the rear of the 18th Iowa, and when the enemy approached
     this line, they gallantly advanced to the line of the 18th,
     and with them poured in their fire. The 18th maintained
     their line manfully, and stoutly contested the ground until
     nearly surrounded, when they retired, and forming again,
     checked the advancing foe, and still held their ground until
     again nearly surrounded, when they again retired across a
     ravine which was impassable for artillery, and I gave orders
     for the piece to be spiked and abandoned.

     'After crossing the ravine I succeeded in forming a portion
     of the cavalry, which I kept in order to give the infantry
     time to cross the swamp which lay in our front, which they
     succeeded in doing. By this means nearly all, except the
     badly wounded, were enabled to reach the camp. Many wounded
     men belonging to the 1st Kansas Colored fell into the hands
     of the enemy, and I have the most positive assurance from
     eyewitnesses that they were murdered on the spot. I was
     forced to abandon everything to the enemy, and they thereby
     became possessed of the large train.

     'With two six pounder guns and two twelve pounder mountain
     howitzers, together with what force could be collected, I
     made my way to this post, where I arrived at 11 P. M. of the
     same day.

     'At no time during the engagement, such was the nature of
     the ground and size of the train, was I obliged to employ
     more than five hundred men and two guns to repel the
     assaults of the enemy, whose force, from the statement of
     prisoners, I estimate at ten thousand men and twelve guns.
     The columns of assault which were again thrown against my
     front and right flank consisted of five regiments of
     infantry and one of cavalry, supported by a strong force
     which operated against my left flank and rear. My loss, in
     killed, wounded and missing during this engagement was as
     follows: Killed--ninety-two, wounded--ninety-seven,
     missing--one hundred and six.

     'Many of those reported missing are supposed to have been
     killed, others are supposed to have been wounded and taken
     prisoners. The loss of the enemy is not known, but in my
     opinion it will exceed our own. The conduct of all the
     troops under my command, officers and men, were
     characterized by true soldiery bearing, and in no case was a
     line broken, except when assaulted by an overwhelming force,
     and then falling back only when so ordered. The officers and
     men all evinced the most heroic spirit, and those that fell
     died the death of the true soldier. The action commenced at
     10 A. M., and terminated at 2 P. M. I have named this
     engagement the action of Poison Springs, from a spring of
     that name in the vicinity.

                                    'Very respectfully yours,

                                        'J. M. WILLIAMS,

       'Colonel 1st Kansas Colored Vol. Infantry, Commanding Expedition.

     'Capt. WM. S. WHITTEN, Assistant Adjutant General.'

"On the 26th day of April following, Gen. Steele's command evacuated Camden and marched for
Little Rock. At Saline Crossing, on the 30th of April, the rear of Gen. Steele's command was
attacked by the entire force of the enemy, commanded by Gen. Kirby Smith. The engagement which
followed resulted in the complete defeat of the enemy, with great loss on his part. In this
engagement the 1st Kansas Colored was not an active participant, being at the moment of the
attack in the advance, distant five miles from the rear and scene of the engagement. The regiment
was ordered back to participate in the battle, but did not arrive on the line until after the
repulse of the enemy and his retirement from the field.

"On the day following, May 1st, 1864, Colonel Williams was ordered to take command of the 2nd
Brigade, composed of the following Phalanx regiments: 1st Regiment, commanded by Major Ward;
2nd Regiment, commanded by Colonel S. J. Crawford; 11th Regiment, commanded by Lieut.-Col.
James M. Steele; 54th Regiment, Lieut.-Col. Chas. Fair; of the Frontier Division 7th Army Corps.

"Colonel Williams never afterwards resumed direct command of his regiment. It constituted for
most of the time, however, a part of the Brigade, which he commanded until he was mustered
out of service with the regiment.

"The regiment remained with the Division at Little Rock until some time during the month of
May, when it Marched for Fort Smith,--then threatened by the enemy,--at which point it arrived
during the same month. This campaign was one of great fatigue and privation, and accomplished
only with great loss of life and material, with no adequate recompense or advantage gained.

"The regiment remained on duty at Fort Smith until January 16th, 1865, doing heavy escort and
fatigue duty. On the 16th of September, 1864, a detachment of forty-two men of Co. K, commanded
by Lieut. D. M. Sutherland, while guarding a hay-making party near Fort Gibson, were surprised
and attacked by a large force of rebels under Gen. Gano, and defeated after a gallant resistence,
with a loss of twenty-two killed and ten prisoners--among the latter the Lieutenant commanding.
On the 16th of January, 1865, the regiment moved to Little Rock, where it arrived on the 31st
of the same month, here it remained on duty until July 1865, when it was ordered to Pine Bluffs,
Ark. Here it remained, doing garrison and escort duty, until October 1st, 1865, when it was
mustered out of service and ordered to Fort Leavenworth for final payment and discharge. The
regiment received its final payment and was discharged at Fort Leavenworth on the 30th day
of October, 1865."

The heroism of the negro people of Kansas was not all centered in this one regiment. Elated
with the success of their brethren already in the field, there was a general desire to emulate
their heroic deeds. In June, 1863, the second regiment was organized at Fort Scott. The regimental
organization was completed at Fort Smith, Ark., by the mustering in of the field and staff
officers.

The regiment went into camp on the Poteau River, about two miles south of Fort Smith. Here
the work of drill and discipline was the daily routine of duty until the regiment maintained
a degree of proficiency second to none in the Army of the Frontier.

On the 24th of March, 1864, the regiment left Fort Smith and started on what was known as the
Camden Expedition, forming a part of Colonel Williams' Brigade of General Thayer's Division.
Major-General Steele's forces left Little Rock about the same time that General Thayer's Division
left Fort Smith, the latter uniting with the former on the Little Missouri river, all destined
for active operations in the direction of Red River.

Colonel Crawford, in reply to the writer's circular letter asking for information respecting
the 2nd Regiment's service on the frontier, thus pungently details the operations of the army
of which his regiment was a part:

                          "WASHINGTON. D. C., Dec. 31st., 1885.

                          "JOSEPH T. WILSON, Esq., Richmond, Va.

     "MY DEAR SIR:

     "The Second Kansas, afterwards designated as the 83rd United
     States Colored Troops, was organized at Fort Scott, Kansas,
     on the 3rd day of October, 1863. Most of the companies were
     organized and mustered into service during the spring and
     summer preceding. The regiment, when organized, was full to
     the maximum, or nearly so, and composed of active,
     able-bodied young men. Immediately upon assuming command of
     the regiment, I moved to the front through Missouri, to Fort
     Smith, in Arkansas, where the regiment was stationed during
     the winter 1863-4, and when not on other duty or in the
     field, spent the time in company and regimental drill.

     "On the 24th day of March, 1864, with the Kansas Division of
     the Frontier Army under the command of General Thayer, I
     moved south and joined the 7th Army Corps under the command
     of Major-General Fred. Steele, in an expedition against the
     rebel armies under Generals Price, Kirby Smith and Dick
     Taylor, then encamped in the vicinity of Shreveport, La.

     "While Steele was advancing from the North, General Banks
     was at the same time moving up the Red river from the East.
     Price, Smith and Taylor, seeing the two armies of Steele and
     Banks, closing in upon them, concentrated their forces,
     first upon Banks, and after defeating and routing his
     forces, turned upon Steele, who was then near Red river, in
     south-western Arkansas.

     "Steele hearing of the Banks disaster, changed his course
     and moved eastward, to Camden, a strongly fortified town on
     the Washita river. From the point at which he turned
     eastward, to Camden, a distance of about sixty miles, the
     march was almost continuous, except when it became necessary
     to skirmish with the enemy's cavalry, which hovered
     unpleasantly close during the greater part of the distance.

     "In each of the light engagements which took place on this
     march from Red river to Camden, the 2nd Regiment
     participated, and behaved in a manner creditable to itself
     and the army.

     "After remaining at Camden about three days (so as to give
     the victorious rebel armies full time to concentrate upon
     him) General Steele crossed the Washita to the North and
     commenced a disgraceful retreat or run back toward Little
     Rock.

     "The enemy, under Price and Kirby Smith, followed in close
     pursuit, and within a few hours were again upon our flank
     and rear. The march or retreat was continuous, night and
     day, until the village of Princeton was reached, where
     Steele's army encamped one night, and received a full ration
     of fresh beef and New Orleans sugar, the latter of which had
     been captured, or rather found in Camden. Early on the
     following morning the army resumed its onward march, towards
     the North Pole as the apparent objective point.

     "Now mind you this was an army (the 7th Army Corps) about
     thirty thousand strong; mostly Western troops, and
     splendidly armed and equipped. Better soldiers never wore
     spurs or carried muskets. Yet under the command of a tenor
     singing dog fancier, that magnificent army was thus
     retreating before an army in every way its inferior save,
     and except, the Commanding General.

     "Thus things went, disgracefully, until the afternoon of the
     day on which we left Princeton, April 29, 1864. Then, for
     the first time after turning our backs to the enemy, in the
     vicinity of Red river, there seemed to be a bare possibility
     of escape,--not from the enemy, but from absolute disgrace
     and humiliation.

     "At no time during that disgraceful retreat, was there a
     moment when the whole army corps, except the Commanding
     General, would not have welcomed a battle, with one
     universal shout.

     "About 4 o'clock in the afternoon of the day mentioned, the
     rebel Cavalry appeared in force and commenced skirmishing
     with our forces in the rear, which continued, more or less,
     until darkness set in. Meantime our distinguished leader,
     the Major-General Commanding, had arrived at the crossing of
     the Saline river, thrown a pontoon bridge over that swollen
     stream, and made good his escape to the north side, taking
     with him the whole army, except one Section of artillery and
     two brigades of infantry of which the 2nd Kansas colored
     formed a part.

     "These two brigades--six regiments in all--stood in line of
     battle all night long, while the rain poured in torrents
     most of the time.

     "During the night the enemy's infantry moved up and formed
     in our immediate front; in fact made every necessary
     preparation for battle, while the dog fancier, who was
     unfortunately at the head of our army across the river, was
     either sleeping or devising the ways and means by which he
     could most easily elude the enemy.

     "But when daylight came the six regiments were there in
     line, every man ready, willing and determined to return,
     volley for volley, and if necessary force the fighting, so
     as to bring on a general engagement.

     "There were but six regiments of us south of the river, with
     two pieces of artillery. But we were there to stay until a
     battle was fought.

     "General Rice of Iowa, formed his brigade in the center; the
     12th Kansas Infantry, commanded by Col. Hayes was on his
     left, and the 2nd Kansas Colored Infantry, commanded by
     myself, was on the right.

     "As soon as it was fairly light, the battle began; both
     lines moving slightly forward until within close range. From
     the beginning, the crash of musketry was terrific. Our men
     stood firm against the advanced Division of the enemy's
     infantry, and used their Springfield and Enfield rifles with
     deadly effect.

     "The enemy seeing our weakness in numbers, pressed heavily
     in the center and upon both flanks, with the evident design
     of breaking our line before re-enforcements could reach us.

     "But in this they were disappointed. We held our position
     until re-enforcements arrived.

     "At one time my regiment was under a heavy fire from the
     front and also from the flank, but not a man wavered. In
     fact it seemed to inspire them with additional courage. The
     re-enforcements as they arrived, passed to the rear and
     formed on the left, leaving me to hold the right. After
     about three hours hard fighting, the enemy having failed to
     dislodge my regiment from its position, which was regarded
     as the key to the situation, brought into position a battery
     of artillery, planted it immediately in front of my regiment
     and opened with canister.

     "As soon as this was done I gave the order to cease firing
     and fix bayonets, and followed that immediately with the
     order to charge the battery.

     "These orders were executed with a courage and daring seldom
     equaled by even older troops, and never excelled by a
     volunteer regiment.

     "In less than two minutes from the time the charge was
     ordered, the rebel battery was in our possession, and out of
     thirty-six horses used in the battery, but two were left
     standing when we passed the guns.

     "Most of the artillery-men lay dead and wounded around the
     battery while the line of infantry support in the rear of
     battery, fell back in disorder before our bayonets; not,
     however, until many of them had for the first time felt the
     effects of cold steel.

     "The charge, though bloody on both sides, was pre-eminently
     successful, and my regiment, "the 2nd Iron Clads," as it was
     called, brought away the battery so captured.

     "In the charge, the regiment lost in killed and wounded,
     some forty odd men and officers. All of our horses, field
     and staff, were shot and most of them killed. The color
     bearer Harrison Young, a hero among men, was wounded and
     fell, raised to his feet and was again twice wounded. A
     comrade then took the flag and was wounded, and a third man
     brought it off the field.

     "A wounded lieutenant of the battery was brought to me, as a
     prisoner;[25] but in view of the massacre of colored troops
     by the rebels at Fort Pillow and other places, I sent the
     Lieutenant immediately back through the lines, pointing him
     to the regiment that had made the charge, and telling him
     that since the rebel authorities had concluded to take no
     prisoners, belonging to colored regiments, it would hardly
     be proper for me to hold him as a prisoner; that they had
     established the precedent, and that in so far as I was
     concerned, they could 'lay on MacDuff.' The Lieutenant
     rejoined his command a sadder if not a wiser man.

     "After the charge I moved with my regiment to the centre,
     where the battle was then raging hottest. Here it remained
     in the thickest of the fight until an advance was ordered
     all along the line, which was made, the enemy falling back
     slowly before our troops, and finally retired from the
     field, leaving us in full possession, with a complete
     victory.

     "Only infantry was engaged on either side except the rebel
     battery, which my regiment captured.

     "Our cavalry, some five thousand strong, and artillery,
     about forty pieces, as already stated, were on the North
     side of the river, and could not be brought into action, to
     advantage, on account of the dense forest and swampy nature
     of the ground. We had about fifteen thousand men engaged,
     while the enemy had the armies of Price and Kirby Smith,
     from which our gallant commander, Steele, had for many
     days been fleeing, as from the wrath to come. During the
     entire battle Steele remained on the north side of the
     river, beyond the reach of the enemy's guns, and at a point
     from which he could continue his flight with safety in case
     of defeat. But the victory was ours, so the march from
     Saline river to Little Rock was made in peace.

     "During this battle my regiment lost in killed and wounded
     about eighty men, but we were richly rewarded by the
     achievements of the day. We, perhaps, had as much to do with
     bringing on the battle as any other one regiment. I went
     into action in the morning without orders. In fact I
     disobeyed an order to cross the river at daylight, and
     instead, I formed my regiment and faced the enemy. The
     regiment charged the battery by my orders, and against an
     order from a superior officer, to hold back and wait for
     orders.

     "My regiment, though among the first in action, and having
     suffered a greater loss than that of any other, was the last
     to leave the field.

     "From this time forward until the close of the war, in so
     far as the Western army was concerned, we heard no more of
     the question, 'Will they fight?'

     "The reputation of at least one colored regiment was
     established, and it stands to-day, in the estimation of men
     who served in the Western army, as the equal of any other
     volunteer regiment.

     "After the Saline river battle the regiment moved back to
     Little Rock and thence to Fort Smith, in western Arkansas.

     "In July 1864, with the 2nd and other troops, I conducted an
     expedition through the Choctaw Nation in the Indian
     Territory, against, or rather in pursuit of a brigade of
     rebel forces, driving them out of that country. During this
     campaign several light engagements were fought, in each of
     which the 2nd took a prominent part, and in each of which
     the 2nd was invariably successful.

     "In the fall of 1864[26], I resigned my position as Colonel
     to assume other duties.

     "What took place from then until the regiment was mustered
     out of service, I only know from heresay, but it is safe to
     say that the regiment maintained its reputation as one of
     the best infantry regiments in the 7th Army Corps.

     "A short time before I left the regiment, General Marcy,
     then Inspector General of the U.S. Army, inspected the
     Kansas Division, to which my regiment belonged, and his
     report, which is now on file in the War Department, if I am
     not mistaken, shows that the 2nd Colored in point of drill,
     discipline and military appearance, stood first of all the
     regiments in that Division.

                            "Yours truly,

                                "SAMUEL J. CRAWFORD.

Lieutenant-Colonel Gilpatrick, promoted from Major, took command of the regiment succeeding
Colonel Crawford, and in December made a forced march to Hudson's crossing on the Neosho river,
by way of Fort Gibson, a distance of one hundred and fifty miles, on quarter rations, and returned
as escort to a large supply train. It was then, with all the Phalanx regiments at Fort Smith,
ordered to Little Rock, where it arrived with a very large train of refugees under charge,
on the 4th of February, after a march of seventeen days.

Colonel Gilpatrick says:

     "The men suffered severely on the march by exposure to wet
     and cold and for the want of proper and sufficient food,
     clothing and shelter. Many of them were barefooted, almost
     naked, and without blankets."

The regiment remained at Little Rock until the spring of 1865, when it formed part of an expedition
which proceeded some distance south of Little Rock, and operated against a band of guerillas
on the Saline river, which they succeeded in driving out and partly capturing. On the 25th
of July the regiment broke camp and proceeded to Camden, Arkansas, and was mustered out of
the United States service, and proceeding by way of Pine Bluff, Ark., Memphis, Tenn., and St.
Louis, Mo., reached Leavenworth, Kansas, where the men were finally paid and discharged on
the 27th of November, 1865. These brave men immediately returned to their homes to enjoy the
blessings of a free government.

FOOTNOTES:

[24] Not less than 70,000 negroes--5,000 at least of which fought for the Union.--have been
driven by persecution into Kansas from the Southern States, and the exodus still continues.

[25] "Colonel Crawford ordered the prisoners to be taken to the rear without insult or injury,
which conduct on his part is in striking contrast to the treatment bestowed upon our colored
troops at Poison Springs. He also told a rebel lieutenant and other prisoners to inform their
commanding General that colored troops had captured them, and that he must from necessity leave
some of his wounded men in hospitals by the way, and that he should expect the same kind treatment
shown to them that he showed to those falling into his hands; but that just such treatment
as his wounded men received at their hands, whether kindness or death, should from this time
forward, be meted out to all rebel falling into his hands. That if they wished to treat as
prisoners of war our colored soldiers, to be exchanged for theirs, the decision was their own;
but if they could afford to murder our colored prisoners to gratify their fiendish dispositions
and passions, the responsibility of commensurate retaliation, to bring them to a sense of justice,
was also their own. But, notwithstanding the kindness shown to their prisoners, so soon as
our command left, a Texas soldier, in the presence of one of their officers, killed, in the
hospital, nine of the wounded men belonging to the 2nd Kansas Colored Infantry."--McAfee's
Military History of Kansas.

[26] About the middle of October, Colonel Crawford received information of his nomination for
the office of Governor, and came from Fort Smith to Kansas, arriving about the 20th instant,
just in time to be an active participant in the expulsion of General Price and his army from
the border of the State.

CHAPTER VII.

DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH.

The appearance of the negro in the Union army altered the state of affairs very much. The policy
of the general Government was changed, and the one question which Mr. Lincoln had tried to
avoid became the question of the war. General Butler, first at Fortress Monroe and then at
New Orleans, had defined the status of the slave, "contraband" and then "soldiers," in advance
of the Emancipation Proclamation. General Hunter, in command at the South, as stated in a previous
chapter, had taken an early opportunity to strike the rebellion in its most vital part, by
arming negroes in his Department, after declaring them free.

Notwithstanding the President revoked Hunter's order, a considerable force was organized and
equipped as early as December, 1862; in fact a regiment of blacks was under arms when the President
issued the Emancipation Proclamation. This regiment, the 1st South Carolina, was in command
of Colonel T. W. Higginson, who with a portion of his command ascended the St. Mary's river
on transports, visited Florida and Georgia, and had several engagements with the enemy. After
an absence of ten or more days, the expedition returned to South Carolina without the loss
of a man.

Had there been but one army in the field, and the fighting confined to one locality, the Phalanx
would have been mobilized, but as there were several armies it was distributed among the several
forces, and its conduct in battle, camp, march and bivouac, was spoken of by the commanders
of the various armies in terms which any class of soldiers, of any race, might well be proud of.

General Grant, on the 24th of July, following the capture of Vicksburg, wrote to the Adjutant-General:

     "The negro troops are easier to preserve discipline among
     than are our white troops, and I doubt not will prove
     equally good for garrison duty. All that have been tried
     have fought bravely."

This was six days after the unsurpassed bravery of the 54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteers--representing
the North in the black Phalanx--had planted its bloodstained banner on the ramparts of Fort
Wagner. It was the Southern negroes, who, up to this time, had reddened the waters of the Mississippi.
It was the freedman's blood that had moistened the soil, and if ignorance could be so intrepid
still greater daring might be expected on the part of the more intelligent men of the race.

The assault on Fort Wagner, July 18, 1863, was one of the most heroic of the whole four years'
war. A very graphic account of the entire movement is given in the following article:

     "At daylight, on the morning of the 12th of July a strong
     column of our troops advanced swiftly to the attack of Fort
     Wagner. The rebels were well prepared, and swept with their
     guns every foot of the approach to the fort, but our
     soldiers pressed on, and gained a foothold on the parapet;
     but, not being supported by other troops, nor aided by the
     guns of the fleet, which quietly looked on, they were forced
     to retreat, leaving many of their comrades in the hands of
     the enemy.

     "It is the opinion of many that if the fleet had moved up at
     the same time, and raked the fort with their guns, our
     troops would have succeeded in taking it; but the naval
     captains said in their defence that they knew nothing of the
     movement, and would have gladly assisted in the attack had
     they been notified.

     "This, unfortunately, was not the only instance of a want of
     harmony or co-operation between the land and naval forces
     operating against Charleston. Had they been under the
     control of one mind, the sacrifice of life in the siege of
     Forts Wagner and Sumter would have been far less. We will
     not assume to say which side was at fault, but by far the
     greater majority lay the blame upon the naval officers.
     Warfare kindles up the latent germs of jealousy in the human
     breast, and the late rebellion furnished many cruel examples
     of its effects, both among the rebels and among the
     patriots. We have had the misfortune to witness them in
     more than one campaign, and upon more than one bloody and
     disastrous field.

     "By the failure of this attack, it was evident that the guns
     of Wagner must be silenced before a successful assault with
     infantry could be made; and, in order to accomplish this, a
     siege of greater or less duration was required. Therefore
     earthworks were immediately thrown up at the distance of
     about a thousand yards from the fort, and the guns and
     mortars from Folly Island brought over to be placed in
     position.

     "This Morris Island is nothing but a narrow bed of sand,
     about three miles in length, with a breadth variable from a
     few hundred yards to a few feet. Along the central portion
     of the lower end a ridge of white sand hills appear, washed
     on one side by the tidal waves, and sloping on the other
     into broad marshes, more than two miles in width, and
     intersected by numerous deep creeks. Upon the extreme
     northern end, Battery Gregg, which the rebels used in
     reducing Fort Sumter in 1861, had been strengthened, and
     mounted with five heavy guns, which threw their shot more
     than half way down the island. A few hundred yards farther
     down the island, and at its narrowest portion, a strong fort
     had been erected, and armed with seventeen guns and mortars.
     This was the famous Fort Wagner; and, as its cannon
     prevented any farther progress up the island, it was
     necessary to reduce it before our forces could approach
     nearer to Fort Sumter.

     "It was thought by our engineers that a continuous
     bombardment of a few days by our siege batteries and the
     fleet might dismount the rebel cannon, and demoralize the
     garrison, so that our brave boys, by a sudden rush, might
     gain possession of the works. Accordingly our siege train
     was brought over from Folly Island, and a parallel commenced
     about a thousand yards from Wagner. Our men worked with such
     energy that nearly thirty cannon and mortars were in
     position on the 17th of July. On the 18th of July the
     bombardment commenced. The land batteries poured a tempest
     of shot into the south side of Wagner, while the fleet moved
     up to within short range, and battered the east side with
     their great guns. In the mean time the rebels were not
     silent, but gallantly stood to their guns, returning shot
     for shot with great precision. But, after a few hours, their
     fire slackened; gun after gun became silent, as the men were
     disabled, and, when the clock struck four in the afternoon,
     Wagner no longer responded to the furious cannonade of the
     Federal forces. Even the men had taken shelter beneath the
     bomb-proofs, and no sign of life was visible about the grim
     and battered fortress.

     "Many of our officers were now so elated with the apparent
     result of demolition, that they urged General Gillmore to
     allow them to assault the fort as soon as it became dark.
     General Gillmore yielded to the solicitations of the
     officers, but very reluctantly, for he was not convinced
     that the proper time had arrived; but the order was finally
     given for the attack to take place just after dark. Fatal
     error as to time, for our troops in the daytime would have
     been successful, since they would not have collided with
     each other; they could have seen their foes, and the arena
     of combat, and the fleet could have assisted them with their
     guns, and prevented the landing of the re-enforcements from
     Charleston.

     "It was a beautiful and calm evening when the troops who
     were to form the assaulting column moved out on to the broad
     and smooth beach left by the receding tide.

     "The last rays of the setting sun illumined the grim walls
     and shattered mounds of Wagner with a flood of crimson
     light, too soon, alas! to be deeper dyed with the red blood
     of struggling men.

     "Our men halted, and formed their ranks upon the beach, a
     mile and more away from the deadly breach. Quietly they
     stood leaning upon their guns, and awaiting the signal of
     attack. There stood, side by side, the hunter of the far
     West, the farmer of the North, the stout lumber-man from the
     forests of Maine, and the black Phalanx Massachusetts had
     armed and sent to the field.

     "In this hour of peril there was no jealousy, no contention.
     The black Phalanx were to lead the forlorn hope. And they
     were proud of their position, and conscious of its danger.
     Although we had seen many of the famous regiments of the
     English, French, and Austrian armies, we were never more
     impressed with the fury and majesty of war than when we
     looked upon the solid mass of the thousand black men, as
     they stood, like giant statues of marble, upon the
     snow-white sands of the beach, waiting the order to advance.
     And little did we think, as we gazed with admiration upon
     that splendid column of four thousand brave men, that ere an
     hour had passed, half of them would be swept away, maimed or
     crushed in the gathering whirlwind of death! Time passed
     quickly, and twilight was fast deepening into the darkness
     of night, when the signal was given. Onward moved the chosen
     and ill-fated band, making the earth tremble under the heavy
     and monotonous tread of the dense mass of thousands of men.
     Wagner lay black and grim in the distance, and silent. Not a
     glimmer of light was seen. Not a gun replied to the bombs
     which our mortars still constantly hurled into the fort. Not
     a shot was returned to the terrific volleys of the giant
     frigate Ironsides, whose shells, ever and anon, plunged into
     the earthworks, illuminating their recesses for an instant
     in the glare of their explosion, but revealing no signs of
     life.

     "Were the rebels all dead? Had they fled from the pitiless
     storm which our batteries had poured down upon them for so
     many hours? Where were they?

     "Down deep beneath the sand heaps were excavated great
     caverns, whose floors were level with the tide, and whose
     roofs were formed of huge trunks of trees laid in double
     rows. Still above these massive beams sand was heaped so
     deeply that even our enormous shells could not penetrate the
     roofs, though they fell from the skies above. In these dark
     subterranean retreats two thousand men lay hid, like
     panthers in a swamp, waiting to leap forth in fury upon
     their prey.

     "The signal given, our forces advanced rapidly towards the
     fort, while our mortars in the rear tossed their bombs over
     their heads. The Fifty-fourth Massachusetts [Phalanx
     Regiment] led the attack, supported by the 6th Conn., 48th
     N. Y., 3rd N. H., 76th Penn. and the 9th Maine Regiments.
     Onward swept the immense mass of men, swiftly and silently,
     in the dark shadows of night. Not a flash of light was seen
     in the distance! No sentinel hoarsely challenged the
     approaching foe! All was still save the footsteps of the
     soldiers, which sounded like the roar of the distant surf,
     as it beats upon the rock-bound coast.

     "Ah, what is this! The silent and shattered walls of Wagner
     all at once burst forth into a blinding sheet of vivid
     light, as though they had suddenly been transformed by some
     magic power into the living, seething crater of a volcano!
     Down came the whirlwind of destruction along the beach with
     the swiftness of lightning! How fearfully the hissing shot,
     the shrieking bombs, the whistling bars of iron, and the
     whispering bullet struck and crushed through the dense
     masses of our brave men! I never shall forget the terrible
     sound of that awful blast of death, which swept down,
     shattered or dead, a thousand of our men. Not a shot had
     missed its aim. Every bolt of steel, every globe of iron and
     lead, tasted of human blood.

     "'Forward!' shouted the undaunted Putnam, as the column
     wavered and staggered like a giant stricken with death.

     "'Steady, my boys!' murmured the brave leader, General
     Strong, as a cannon-shot dashed him, maimed and bleeding,
     into the sand.

     "In a moment the column recovered itself, like a gallant
     ship at sea when buried for an instant under an immense
     wave.

     "The ditch is reached; a thousand men leap into it, clamber
     up the shattered ramparts, and grapple with the foe, which
     yields and falls back to the rear of the fort. Our men swarm
     over the walls, bayoneting the desperate rebel cannoneers.
     Hurrah! the fort is ours!

     "But now came another blinding blast from concealed guns in
     the rear of the fort, and our men went down by scores. Now
     the rebels rally, and, re-enforced by thousands of the
     chivalry, who have landed on the beach under cover of
     darkness, unmolested by the guns of the fleet. They hurl
     themselves with fury upon the remnant of our brave band. The
     struggle is terrific. Our supports hurry up to the aid of
     their comrades, but as they reach the ramparts they fire a
     volley which strikes down many of our men. Fatal mistake!
     Our men rally once more; but, in spite of an heroic
     resistance, they are forced back again to the edge of the
     ditch. Here the brave Shaw, with scores of his black
     warriors went down, fighting desperately. Here Putnam met
     his death wound, while cheering and urging on the
     overpowered Phalanx men.

     "What fighting, and what fearful carnage! Hand to hand,
     breast to breast! Here, on this little strip of land, scarce
     bigger than the human hand, dense masses of men struggled
     with fury in the darkness; and so fierce was the contest
     that the sands were reddened and soaked with human gore.

     "But resistance was vain. The assailants were forced back
     again to the beach, and the rebels trained their recovered
     cannon anew upon the retreating survivors.

     "What a fearful night was that, as we gathered up our
     wounded heroes, and bore them to a place of shelter! And
     what a mournful morning, as the sun rose with his clear
     beams, and revealed our terrible losses! What a rich harvest
     Death had gathered to himself during the short struggle!
     Nearly two thousand of our men had fallen. More than six
     hundred of our brave boys lay dead on the ramparts of the
     fatal fort, in its broad ditch, and along the beach at its
     base. A flag of truce party went out to bury our dead, but
     General Beauregard they found had already buried them, where
     they fell, in broad, deep trenches."

Colonel Shaw, the young and gallant commander of the 54th Regiment, was formerly a member of
the famous 7th N. Y. Regiment. He was of high, social and influential standing, and in his
death won distinction. The confederates added to his fame and glory, though unintentionally,
by burying him with his soldiers, or as a confederate Major expressed the information, when
a request for the Colonel's body was made, "we have buried him with his niggers!"

A poet has immortalized the occurrence and the gallant Shaw thus:

    'They buried him with his niggers!'
    Together they fought and died.
    There was room for them all where they laid him,
    (The grave was deep and wide).
    For his beauty and youth and valor,
    Their patience and love and pain;
    And at the last together
    They shall be found again.

    'They buried him with his niggers!'
    Earth holds no prouder grave;
    There is not a mausoleum
    In the world beyond the wave,
    That a nobler tale has hallowed,
    Or a purer glory crowned,
    Than the nameless trench where they buried
    The brave so faithful found.

    'They buried him with his niggers!'
    A wide grave should it be;
    They buried more in that shallow trench
    Than human eye could see.
    Aye, all the shames and sorrows
    Of more than a hundred years
    Lie under the weight of that Southern soil
    Despite those cruel sneers.

    'They buried him with his niggers!'
    But the glorious souls set free
    Are leading the van of the army
    That fights for liberty.
    Brothers in death, in glory
    The same palm branches bear;
    And the crown is as bright o'er the sable brows
    As over the golden hair.

       *   *   *   *

    Buried with a band of brothers
    Who for him would fain have died;
    Buried with the gallant fellows
    Who fell fighting by his side;

    Buried with the men God gave him,
    Those whom he was sent to save;
    Buried with the martyr heroes,
    He has found an honored grave.

    Buried where his dust so precious
    Makes the soil a hallowed spot;
    Buried where by Christian patriot,
    He shall never be forgot.

    Buried in the ground accursed,
    Which man's fettered feet have trod;
    Buried where his voice still speaketh,
    Appealing for the slave to God;

    Fare thee well, thou noble warrior,
    Who in youthful beauty went
    On a high and holy mission,
    By the God of battles sent.

    Chosen of him, 'elect and precious,'
    Well didst thou fulfil thy part;
    When thy country 'counts her jewels,'
    She shall wear thee on her heart.

The heroic courage displayed by the gallant Phalanx at the assault upon Fort Wagner was not
surpassed by the Old Guard at Moscow. Major-General Taliaferro gives this confederate account
of the fight, which is especially interesting as it shows the condition of affairs inside the fort:

     "On the night of the 14th the monster iron-plated frigate
     New Ironsides, crossed the bar and added her formidable and
     ponderous battery to those destined for the great effort of
     reducing the sullen earthwork which barred the Federal
     advance. There were now five monitors, the Ironsides and a
     fleet of gunboats and monster hulks grouped together and
     only waiting the signal to unite with the land batteries
     when the engineers should pronounce them ready to form a
     cordon of flame around the devoted work. The Confederates
     were prepared for the ordeal. For fear that communications
     with the city and the mainland, which was had by steamboat
     at night to Cummings' Point should be interrupted, rations
     and ordnance stores had been accumulated, but there was
     trouble about water. Some was sent from Charleston and wells
     had been dug in the sand inside and outside the fort, but it
     was not good. Sand bags had been provided and trenching
     tools supplied sufficient for any supposed requirement.

     "The excitement of the enemy in front after the 10th was
     manifest to the Confederates and announced an 'impending
     crisis.' It became evident that some extraordinary movement
     was at hand. The Federal forces on James Island had been
     attacked on the morning of the 16th by General Hagood and
     caused to retire, Hagood occupying the abandoned positions,
     and on the 17th the enemy's troops were transferred to
     Little Folly and Morris Islands. It has been stated that the
     key to the signals employed by the Federals was in
     possession of General Taliaferro at this time, and he was
     thus made acquainted with the intended movement and put upon
     his guard. That is a mistake. He had no such direct
     information, although it is true that afterwards the key was
     discovered and the signals interpreted with as much ease as
     by the Federals themselves. The 18th of July was the day
     determined upon by the Federal commanders for the grand
     attempt which, if successful, would level the arrogant
     fortress and confuse it by the mighty power of their giant
     artillery with the general mass of surrounding sand hills,
     annihilate its garrison or drive them into the relentless
     ocean, or else consign them to the misery of hostile
     prisons.

     "The day broke beautifully, a gentle breeze slightly
     agitated the balmy atmosphere, and with rippling dimples
     beautified the bosom of the placid sea. All nature was
     serene and the profoundest peace held dominion over all the
     elements. The sun, rising with the early splendors of his
     midsummer glory, burnished with golden tints the awakening
     ocean, and flashed his reflected light back from the spires
     of the beleaguered city into the eyes of those who stood
     pausing to gather strength to spring upon her, and of those
     who stood at bay to battle for her safety. Yet the profound
     repose was undisturbed; the early hours of that fair morning
     hoisted a flag of truce between the combatants which was
     respected by both. But the tempest of fire which was
     destined to break the charm of nature, with human thunders
     then unsurpassed in war, was gathering in the south. At
     about half-past 7 o'clock the ships of war moved from their
     moorings, the iron leviathan the Ironsides, an Agamemnon
     among ships, leading and directing their movements, then
     monitor after monitor, and then wooden flagships. Steadily
     and majestically they marched; marched as columns of men
     would march, obedient to commands, independent of waves and
     winds, mobilized by steam and science to turn on a pivot and
     manoeuvre as the directing mind required them; they halted
     in front of the fort; they did not anchor as Sir Peter
     Parker's ships had done near a hundred years before in front
     of Moultrie, which was hard by and frowning still at her
     ancient enemies of the ocean. They halted and waited for
     word of command to belch their consuming lightnings out upon
     the foe. On the land, engineering skill was satisfied and
     the deadly exposure for details for labor was ended; the
     time for retaliation had arrived when the defiant shots of
     the rebel batteries would be answered; the batteries were
     unmasked; the cordon of fire was complete by land and by
     sea; the doomed fort was encircled by guns.

     "The Confederates watched from the ramparts the approach of
     the fleet and the unmasking of the guns, and they knew that
     the moment had arrived in which the problem of the capacity
     of the resistant power of earth and sand to the forces to
     which science so far developed in war could subject them was
     to be solved and that Battery Wagner was to be that day the
     subject of the crucial test. The small armament of the fort
     was really inappreciable in the contest about to be
     inaugurated. There was but one gun which could be expected
     to be of much avail against the formidable naval power which
     would assail it and on the land side few which could reach
     the enemy's batteries. When these guns were knocked to
     pieces and silenced there was nothing left but passive
     resistance, but the Confederates, from the preliminary tests
     which had been applied, had considerable faith in the
     capacity of sand and earth for passive resistance.

     "The fort was in good condition, having been materially
     strengthened since the former assault by the indefatigable
     exertions of Colonel David Harris, chief engineer, and his
     valuable assistant, Captain Barnwell. Colonel Harris was a
     Virginian, ex-officer of the army of the United States and a
     graduate of West Point, who had some years before retired
     from the service to prosecute the profession of civil
     engineering. Under a tempest of shells he landed during the
     fiercest period of the bombardment at Cummings' Point, and
     made his way through the field of fire to the beleaguered
     fort to inspect its condition and to inspire the garrison by
     his heroic courage and his confidence in its strength.
     Escaping all the dangers of war, he fell a victim to yellow
     fever in Charleston, beloved and honored by all who had
     ever known him. The heavy work imposed upon the garrison in
     repairs and construction, as well as the strain upon the
     system by constant exposure to the enemy's fire, had induced
     General Beauregard to adopt the plan of relieving the
     garrison every few days by fresh troops. The objection to
     this was that the new men had to be instructed and
     familiarized with their duties; but still it was wise and
     necessary, for the same set of officers and men, if retained
     any length of time, would have been broken down by the
     arduous service required of them. The relief was sent by
     regiments and detachments, so there was never an entirely
     new body of men in the works.

     "The garrison was estimated at one thousand seven hundred
     aggregate. The staff of General Taliaferro consisted of
     Captain Twiggs, Quartermaster General; Captain W. T.
     Taliaferro, Adjutant General; Lieutenants H. C. Cunningham
     and Magyck, Ordnance Officers; Lieutenants Meade and Stoney,
     Aides-de-Camp; Major Holcombe; Captain Burke, Quartermaster,
     and Habersham, Surgeon-in-Chief; Private Stockman, of
     McEnery's Louisiana Battalion, who had been detailed as
     clerk because of his incapacity for other duty, from most
     honorable wounds, acted also in capacity of aid.

     "The Charleston Battalion was assigned to that part of the
     work which extended from the Sally port or Lighthouse Inlet
     creek around to the left until it occupied part of the face
     to the south, including the western bastion; the Fifty-first
     North Carolina connected with these troops on the left and
     extended to the southeast bastion; the rest of the work was
     to be occupied by the Thirty-first North Carolina Regiment,
     and a small force from that regiment was detailed as a
     reserve, and two companies of the Charleston Battalion were
     to occupy outside of the fort the covered way spoken of and
     some sand-hills by the seashore; the artillery was
     distributed among the several gun-chambers and the light
     pieces posted on a traverse outside so as to sweep to sea
     face and the right approach. The positions to be occupied
     were well known to every officer and man and had been
     verified repeatedly by day and night, so there was no fear
     of confusion, mistake or delay in the event of an assault.
     The troops of course were not ordered to these positions
     when at 6 o'clock it was evident a furious bombardment was
     impending, but, on the contrary, to the shelter of the
     bomb-proofs, sand-hills and parapet; a few sentinels or
     videttes were detailed and the gun detachments only ordered
     to their pieces.

     "The Charleston Battalion preferred the freer air of the
     open work to the stifling atmosphere of the bomb-proofs and
     were permitted to shelter themselves under the parapet and
     traverses. Not one of that heroic band entered the opening
     of a bomb-proof during that frightful day. The immense
     superiority of the enemy's artillery was well understood and
     appreciated by the Confederate commander, and it was clear
     to him that his policy was to husband his resources and
     preserve them as best he could for the assault, which it was
     reasonable to expect would occur during the day. He
     recognized the fact that his guns were only defensive and
     he had little or no offensive power with which to contend
     with his adversaries. Acting on this conviction he had the
     light guns dismounted and covered with sand bags, and the
     same precaution was adopted to preserve some of the shell
     guns or fixed carriages. The propriety of this determination
     was abundantly demonstrated in the end.

     "About a quarter past 8 o'clock the storm broke, ship after
     ship and battery after battery, and then apparently all
     together, vomited forth their horrid flames and the
     atmosphere was filled with deadly missiles. It is impossible
     for any pen to describe or for anyone who was not an
     eye-witness to conceive the frightful grandeur of the
     spectacle. The writer has never had the fortune to read any
     official Federal report or any other account of the
     operations of this day except an extract from the graphic
     and eloquent address of the Rev. Mr. Dennison, a chaplain of
     one of the Northern regiments, delivered on its nineteenth
     anniversary at Providence, R. I. He says: 'Words cannot
     depict the thunder, the smoke, the lifted sand and the
     general havoc which characterized that hot summer day. What
     a storm of iron fell on that island; the roar of the guns
     was incessant; how the shots ploughed the sand banks and the
     marshes; how the splinters flew from the Beacon House; how
     the whole island smoked like a furnace and trembled as from
     an earthquake.'

     "If that was true outside of Wagner it is easy to conceive
     how intensified the situation was within its narrow limits
     towards which every hostile gun was pointed. The sand came
     down in avalanches; huge vertical shells and those rolled
     over by the ricochet shots from the ships, buried themselves
     and then exploded, rending the earth and forming great
     craters, out of which the sand and iron fragments flew high
     in the air. It was a fierce sirocco freighted with iron as
     well as sand. The sand flew over from the seashore, from the
     glacis, from the exterior slope, from the parapet, as it was
     ploughed up and lifted and driven by resistless force now in
     spray and now almost in waves over into the work, the men
     sometimes half buried by the moving mass. The chief anxiety
     was about the magazines. The profile of the fort might be
     destroyed, the ditch filled up, the traverses and bomb-proof
     barracks knocked out of shape, but the protecting banks of
     sand would still afford their shelter; but if the coverings
     of the magazines were blown away and they became exposed,
     the explosion that would ensue would lift fort and garrison
     into the air and annihilate all in general chaos. They were
     carefully watched and reports of their condition required to
     be made at short intervals during the day.

     "Wagner replied to the enemy, her 10-inch columbiad alone to
     the ships, deliberately at intervals of fifteen minutes, the
     other guns to the land batteries whenever in range, as long
     as they were serviceable. The 32-pounder rifled gun was soon
     rendered useless by bursting and within two hours many other
     guns had been dismounted and their carriages destroyed.
     Sumter, Colonel Alfred Rhett in command, and Gregg, under
     charge of Captain Sesesne, with the Sullivan and James
     Island batteries at long range, threw all the power of their
     available metal at the assailants and added their thunders
     to the universal din; the harbor of Charleston was a
     volcano. The want of water was felt, but now again
     unconsciously the enemy came to the assistance of the
     garrison, for water was actually scooped from the craters
     made in the sand by the exploded shells. The city of
     Charleston was alive and aflame with excitement; the bay,
     the wharves, the steeples and streets filled with anxious
     spectators looking across the water at their defenders, whom
     they could not succor.

     "At 2 o'clock the flag halliards were cut by a shot and the
     Confederate garrison flag was blown over into the fort;
     there was an instant race for its recovery through the storm
     of missiles, over the broken earth and shells and splinters
     which lined the parade. Major Ramsey, Sergeant Shelton and
     private Flinn, of the Charleston Battalion, and Lieutenant
     Riddick, of the Sixty-third Georgia, first reached it and
     bore it back in triumph to the flagstaff, and at the same
     moment Captain Barnwell, of the engineers, seized a
     battle-flag, and leaping on the ramparts, drove the staff
     into the sand. This flag was again shot away, but was again
     replaced by Private Gaillard, of the Charleston Battalion.
     These intrepid actions, emulating in a higher degree the
     conduct of Sergeant Jasper at Moultrie during the
     Revolution, were cheered by the command and inspired them
     with renewed courage.

     "The day wore on; thousands upon thousands of shells and
     round shot, shells loaded with balls, shells of guns and
     shells of mortars, percussion shells, exploding upon impact,
     shells with graded fuses--every kind apparently known to the
     arsenals of war leaped into and around the doomed fort, yet
     there was no cessation; the sun seemed to stand still and
     the long midsummer day to know no night. Some men were dead
     and no scratch appeared on their bodies; the concussion had
     forced the breath from their lungs and collapsed them into
     corpses. Captain Twiggs, of the staff, in executing some
     orders was found apparently dead. He was untouched, but
     lifeless, and only strong restoratives brought him back to
     animation, and the commanding officer was buried knee-deep
     in sand and had to be rescued by spades from his
     imprisonment. The day wore on, hours followed hours of
     anxiety and grim endurance, but no respite ensued. At last
     night came; not however, to herald a cessation of the
     strife, but to usher in a conflict still more terrible. More
     than eleven hours had passed. The fort was torn and
     mutilated; to the outside observer it was apparently
     powerless, knocked to pieces and pounded out of shape, the
     outline changed, the exterior slope full of gaping wounds,
     the ditch half filled up, but the interior still preserved
     its form and its integrity; scarred and defaced it was yet a
     citadel which, although not offensive, was defiant.

     "It was nearly eight o'clock at night, but still twilight,
     when a calm came and the blazing circle ceased to glow with
     flame. The ominous pause was understood; it required no
     signals to be read by those to whom they were not directed
     to inform them that the supreme moment to test the value of
     the day's achievements was now at hand. It meant nothing but
     assault. Dr. Dennison says the assault was intended to be a
     surprise. He over-estimates the equanimity of the
     Confederate commander if he supposes that that bombardment,
     which would have waked the dead, had lulled him into
     security and repose. The buried cannon were at once exhumed,
     the guns remounted and the garrison ordered to their
     appointed posts. The Charleston Battalion were already
     formed and in position; they had nestled under the parapet
     and stood ready in their places. The other troops with the
     exception of part of one regiment, responded to the summons
     with extraordinary celerity, and the echoes of the Federal
     guns had hardly died away before more than three-fourths of
     the ramparts were lined with troops; one gap remained
     unfilled; the demoralized men who should have filled it
     clung to the bomb-proofs and stayed there. The gallant
     Colonel Simpkins called his men to the gun-chambers wherever
     guns existed. De Pass, with his light artillery on the
     traverse to the left, his guns remounted and untouched,
     stood ready, and Colonel Harris moved a howitzer outside the
     fort to the right to deliver an enfilade fire upon the
     assailants.

     "The dark masses of the enemies columns, brigade after
     brigade, were seen in the fading twilight to approach; line
     after line was formed and then came the rush. A small creek
     made in on the right of the fort and intercepted the enemy's
     left attack; they did not know it, or did not estimate it.
     Orders were given to Gaillard to hold his fire and deliver
     no direct shot. It was believed the obstacle presented by
     the creek would confuse the assailants, cause them to
     incline to the right and mingle their masses at the head of
     the obstacle and thus their movements would be obstructed.
     It seemed to have the anticipated effect and the assaulting
     columns apparently jumbled together at this point were met
     by the withering volleys of McKethan's direct and Gaillard's
     cross-fire and by the direct discharge of the shell guns,
     supplemented by the frightful enfilading discharges of the
     lighter guns upon the right and left. It was terrible, but
     with an unsurpassed gallantry the Federal soldiers breasted
     the storm and rushed onward to the glacis.

     "The Confederates, not fourteen hundred strong, with the
     tenacity of bull dogs and a fierce courage which was roused
     to madness by the frightful inaction to which they had been
     subjected, poured from the ramparts and embrasures sheets of
     flame and a tempest of lead and iron, yet their intrepid
     assailants rushed on like the waves of the sea by whose
     shore they fought. They fell by hundreds, but they pushed
     on, reeling under the frightful blasts that almost blew them
     to pieces, some up to the Confederate bayonets. The
     southeast bastion was weakly defended, and into it a
     considerable body of the enemy made their way but they were
     caught in a trap, for they could not leave it. The fight
     continued; but it was impossible to stem the torrent of
     deadly missiles which poured out from the fort, the reflux
     of that terrible tide which had poured in all day, and the
     Federals retreated, leaving near a thousand dead around the
     fort.

     "There was no cessation of the Confederate fire. Sumter and
     Gregg threw their shells along with those of Wagner upon the
     retiring foe; nor was the conflict over in the fort itself.
     The party which had gained access by the salient next the
     sea could not escape. It was certain death to attempt to
     pass the line of concentrated fire which swept the faces of
     the work, and they did not attempt it; but they would not
     surrender, and in desperation kept up a constant fire upon
     the main body of the fort. The Confederates called for
     volunteers to dislodge them--a summons which was promptly
     responded to by Major McDonald, of the Fifty-first North
     Carolina, and by Captain Rion, of the Charleston Battalion,
     with the requisite number of men. Rion's company was
     selected, and the gallant Irishman, at the head of his
     company, dashed at the reckless and insane men, who seemed
     to insist upon immolation. The tables were now singularly
     turned; the assailants had become the assailed and they held
     a fort within the fort, and were protected by the traverses
     and gun chambers, behind which they fought. Rion rushed at
     them, but he fell, shot outright, with several of his men,
     and the rest recoiled. At this time General Hagood reported
     to General Taliaferro with Colonel Harrison's splendid
     regiment, the Thirty-second Georgia, sent over by Beauregard
     to his assistance as soon as a landing could be effected at
     Cummings' Point. These troops were ordered to move along on
     the traverses and bomb-proofs, and to plunge their
     concentrated fire over the stronghold. Still, for a time,
     the enemy held out, but at last they cried out and
     surrendered.

     "The carnage was frightful. It is believed the Federals lost
     more men on that eventful night than twice the entire
     strength of the Confederate garrison. The Confederates lost
     eight killed and twenty wounded by the bombardment and about
     fifty killed and one hundred and fifty wounded altogether
     from the bombardment and assault. Among the killed were
     those gallant officers, Lieutenant Colonel Simkins and Major
     Ramsey and among the wounded Captains DePass and Twiggs, of
     the staff, and Lieutenants Storey (Aide-de-Camp), Power and
     Watties. According to the statement of Chaplain Dennison the
     assaulting columns in two brigades, commanded by General
     Strong and Colonel Putnam (the division under General
     Seymour), consisted of the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts, Third
     and Seventh New Hampshire, Sixth Connecticut and One
     Hundredth New York, with a reserve brigade commanded by
     General Stephenson. One of the assaulting regiments was
     composed of negroes (the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts) and to
     it was assigned the honor of leading the white columns to
     the charge. It was a dearly purchased compliment. Their
     Colonel (Shaw) was killed upon the parapet and the regiment
     almost annihilated, although the Confederates in the
     darkness could not tell the color of their assailants. Both
     the brigade commanders were killed as well as Colonel
     Chatfield.

     "The same account says: 'We lost 55 officers and 585 men, a
     total of 640, one of the choicest martyr rolls of the war.'
     By 'lost,' 'killed' is supposed to be meant, but still that
     number greatly falls short of the number reported by the
     Confederates to have been buried on the 19th by them and by
     their own friends under a flag of truce. These reports show
     that 800 were buried, and as a number were taken prisoners,
     and it is fair to estimate that three were wounded to one
     killed, the total loss of the Federals exceeded 3,000. The
     writer's official report estimates the Federal loss at not
     less than 2,000; General Beauregard's at 3,000. The Federal
     official reports have not been seen.

     "The limits prescribed for this paper would be exceeded if
     any account of the remaining forty-eight days of the heroic
     strife on Morris Island were attempted. It closes with the
     repulse of the second assault, and it is a fit conclusion to
     render the homage due to the gallantry of the contestants by
     quoting and adopting the language of Dr. Dennison's address:
     'The truest courage and determination was manifested on both
     sides on that crimson day at that great slaughter-house,
     Wagner.'"

It was no longer a question of doubt as to the valor of Northern negroes. The assault on Fort
Wagner completely removed any prejudice that had been exhibited toward negro troops in the
Department of the South. General Gillmore immediately issued an order forbidding any distinction
to be made among troops in his command. So that while the black Phalanx had lost hundreds of
its members, it nevertheless won equality in all things save the pay. The Government refused
to place them on a footing even with their Southern brothers, who received $7 per month and
the white troops $13. However, they were not fighting for pay, as "Stonewall" of Company C
argued, but for the "freedom of our kin." Nobly did they do this, not only at Wagner, as we
have seen, but in the battles on James Island, Honey Hill, Olustee and at Bodkin's Mill.

In the winter of 1864, the troops in the Department of the South lay encamped on the islands
in and about Charleston harbor, resting from their endeavors to drive the confederates from
their strongholds. The city was five miles away in the distance. Sumter, grim, hoary and in
ruins, yet defying the National authority, was silent. General Gillmore was in command of the
veteran legions of the 10th Army Corps, aided by a powerful fleet of ironclads and other war
vessels. There laid the city of Charleston, for the time having a respite. General Gillmore
was giving rest to his troops, before he began again to throw Greek fire into the city and
batter the walls of its defences. The shattered ranks of the Phalanx soldiers rested in the
midst of thousands of their white comrades-in-arms, to whom they nightly repeated the story
of the late terrible struggle. The solemn sentry pacing the ramparts of Fort Wagner night and
day, his bayonet glittering in the rays of the sun or in the moonlight, seemed to be guarding
the sepulchre of Col. Shaw and those who fell beside him within the walls of that gory fort,
and who were buried where they fell. Only those who have lived in such a camp can appreciate
the stories of hair-breadth escapes from hand-to-hand fights.

The repose lasted until January, when an important movement took place for the permanent occupation
of Florida. The following account, written by the author of this book, was published in "The
Journal," of Toledo, O.:

     "The twentieth day of February, 1864, was one of the most
     disastrous to the Federal arms, and to the administration of
     President Lincoln, in the annals of the war for the union.
     Through private advice Mr. Lincoln had received information
     which led him to believe that the people in the State of
     Florida, a large number of them, at least, were ready and
     anxious to identify the State with the cause of the Union,
     and he readily approved of the Federal forces occupying the
     State, then almost deserted by the rebels. Gen. Gillmore,
     commanding the Department of the South had a large force
     before Charleston, S. C., which had been engaged in the
     capture of Fort Wagner and the bombardment of the city of
     Charleston, and the reduction of Sumter.

     "These objects being accomplished, the army having rested
     several months, Gen. Gillmore asked for leave to undertake
     such expeditions within his Department as he might think
     proper. About the middle of December, 1863, the War
     Department granted him his request, and immediately he began
     making preparations for an expedition, collecting
     transports, commissary stores, drilling troops, etc., etc.

     "About the 1st of January, 1864, General Gillmore wrote to
     the General-in-Chief, Halleck, that he was about to occupy
     the west bank of St. Johns river, with the view (1st) to
     open an outlet to cotton, lumber, etc., (2d) to destroy one
     of the enemy's sources of supplies, (3d) to give the negroes
     opportunity of enlisting in the army, (4th) to inaugurate
     measures for the speedy restoration of Florida to the Union.

     "In accordance with instructions from President Lincoln
     received through the assistant Adjutant General, Major J. H.
     Hay, who would accompany the expedition, on the 5th of
     February the troops began to embark under the immediate
     command of General Truman Seymour, on board of twenty
     steamers and eight schooners, consisting of the following
     regiments, numbering in all six thousand troops, and under
     convoy of the gunboat Norwich:

     "40th Massachusetts Mounted Infantry, Col. Guy V. Henry.

     "7th Connecticut, Col. J. R. Hawley.

     "7th New Hampshire, Col. Abbott.

     "47th, 48th and 115th New York, Col. Barton's command.

     "The Phalanx regiments were: 8th Pennsylvania, Col. Fribley;
     1st North Carolina, Lt.-Col. Reed; 54th Massachusetts, Col.
     Hallowell; 2d South Carolina, Col. Beecher; 55th
     Massachusetts, Col. Hartwell, with three batteries of white
     troops, Hamilton's, Elder's and Langdon's. Excepting the two
     last named regiments, this force landed at Jacksonville on
     the 7th of February, and pushed on, following the 40th
     Massachusetts Mounted Infantry, which captured by a bold
     dash Camp Finnigan, about seven miles from Jacksonville,
     with its equipage, eight pieces of artillery, and a number
     of prisoners. On the 10th, the whole force had reached
     Baldwin, a railroad station twenty miles west of
     Jacksonville. There the army encamped, except Col. Henry's
     force, which continued its advance towards Tallahassee,
     driving a small force of Gen. Finnegan's command before him.
     This was at the time all the rebel force in east Florida. On
     the 18th Gen. Seymour, induced by the successful advance of
     Col. Henry, lead his troops from Baldwin with ten days'
     rations in their haversacks, and started for the Suwanee
     river, about a hundred and thirty miles from Baldwin
     station, leaving the 2d South Carolina and the 55th
     Massachusetts Phalanx regiments to follow. After a fatiguing
     march the column, numbering about six thousand, reached
     Barbour's Station, on the Florida Central Railroad, twenty
     miles from Baldwin. Here the command halted and bivouaced,
     the night of the 19th, in the woods bordering upon a wooded
     ravine running off towards the river from the railroad
     track.

     "It is now nineteen years ago, and I write from memory of a
     night long to be remembered. Around many a Grand Army
     Camp-fire in the last fifteen years this bivouac has been
     made the topic of an evening's talk. It was attended with no
     particular hardship. The weather was such as is met with in
     these latitudes, not cold, not hot, and though a thick
     vapory cloud hid the full round moon from early eventide
     until the last regiment filed into the woods, yet there was
     a halo of light that brightened the white, sandy earth and
     gave to the moss-laden limbs of the huge pines which stood
     sentry-like on the roadside the appearance of a New England
     grove on a frosty night, with a shelled road leading through
     it.

     "It was well in the night when the two Phalanx regiments
     filed out of the road into the woods, bringing up the rear
     of the army, and took shelter under the trees from the
     falling dew. Amid the appalling stillness that reigned
     throughout the encampment, except the tramp of feet and an
     occasional whickering of a battery horse, no sound broke the
     deep silence. Commands were given in an undertone and
     whispered along the long lines of weary troops that lay
     among the trees and the underbrush of the pine forest. Each
     soldier lay with his musket beside him, ready to spring to
     his feet and in line for battle, for none knew the moment
     the enemy, like a tiger, would pounce upon them. It was a
     night of intense anxiety, shrouded in mystery as to what
     to-morrow would bring. The white and black soldier in one
     common bed lay in battle panoply, dreaming their common
     dreams of home and loved ones.

     "Here lay the heroic 54th picturing to themselves the
     memorable nights of July 17 and 18, their bivouac on the
     beach and their capture of Fort Wagner and the terrible fate
     of their comrades. They were all veteran troops save the 8th
     Pennsylvania, which upon many hard-fought fields had covered
     themselves with gallant honor in defense of their country's
     cause, from Malvern Hill to Morris Island.

     "It was in the gray of the next morning that Gen. Seymour's
     order aroused the command. The men partook of a hastily
     prepared cup of coffee and meat and hard-tack from their
     haversacks. At sunrise the troops took up the line of march,
     following the railroad for Lake City. Col. Henry, with the
     40th Massachusetts Mounted Infantry and Major Stevens'
     independent battalion of Massachusetts cavalry, led the
     column. About half-past one o'clock they reached a point
     where the country road crossed the railroad, about two miles
     east of Olustee, and six miles west of Sanderson, a station
     through which the troops passed about half-past eleven
     o'clock. As the head of the column reached the crossing the
     rebel pickets fired and fell back upon a line of
     skirmishers, pursued by Col. Henry's command. The enemy's
     main force was supposed to be some miles distant from this
     place, consequently General Seymour had not taken the
     precaution to protect his flanks, though marching through an
     enemy's country. Consequently he found his troops flanked on
     either side.

     "Col. Henry drove the skirmishers back upon their main
     forces, which were strongly posted between two swamps. The
     position was admirably chosen; their right rested upon a
     low, slight earthwork, protected by rifle-pits, their center
     was defended by an impassable swamp, and on their left was a
     cavalry force drawn up on a small elevation behind the
     shelter of a grove of pines. Their camp was intersected by
     the railroad, on which was placed a battery capable of
     operating against the center and left of the advancing
     column, while a rifle gun, mounted on a railroad flat,
     pointed down the road in front.

     "Gen. Seymour, in order to attack this strongly fortified
     position, had necessarily to place his troops between the
     two swamps, one in his front, the other in the rear. The
     Federal cavalry, following up the skirmishers, had attacked
     the rebel right and were driven back, but were met by the
     7th New Hampshire, 7th Connecticut, a regiment of the black
     Phalanx (8th Pennsylvania), and Elder's battery of four and
     Hamilton's of six pieces. This force was hurled against the
     rebel right with such impetuosity that the batteries were
     within one hundred yards of the rebel line of battle before
     they knew it. However, they took position, and supported by
     the Phalanx regiment, opened a vigorous fire upon the rebel
     earthworks. The Phalanx regiment advanced within twenty or
     thirty yards of the enemy's rifle-pits, and poured a volley
     of minie balls into the very faces of those who did not fly
     on their approach.

     "The 7th Connecticut and the 7th New Hampshire, the latter
     with their seven-shooters, Spencer repeaters, Col. Hawley,
     commanding, had taken a stand further to the right of the
     battery, and were hotly engaging the rebels. The Phalanx
     regiment (8th), after dealing out two rounds from its
     advanced position, finding the enemy's force in the center
     preparing to charge upon them, fell back under cover of
     Hamilton's battery, which was firing vigorously and
     effectively into the rebel column. The 7th Connecticut and
     New Hampshire about this time ran short of ammunition, and
     Col. Hawley, finding the rebels outnumbered his force three
     to one, was about ordering Col. Abbott to fall back and out
     of the concentrated fire of the enemy pouring upon his men,
     when he observed the rebels coming in for a down upon his
     column.

     "Here they come like tigers; the Federal column wavers a
     little; it staggers and breaks, falling back in considerable
     disorder! Col. Hawley now ordered Col. Fribley to take his
     Phalanx Regiment, the 8th, to the right of the battery and
     check the advancing rebel force. No time was to be lost, the
     enemy's sharpshooters had already silenced two of Hamilton's
     guns, dead and dying men and horses lay in a heap about
     them, while at the remaining four guns a few brave
     artillerists were loading and fixing their pieces, retarding
     the enemy in his onward movement.

     "Deficient in artillery, they had not been able to check the
     Federal cavalry in its dash, but the concentrated fire from
     right to center demoralized, and sent them galloping over
     the field wildly. Col. Fribley gave the order by the right
     flank, double quick! and the next moment the 8th Phalanx
     swept away to the extreme right in support of the 7th New
     Hampshire and the 7th Connecticut. The low, direct aim of
     the enemy in the rifle-pits, his Indian sharpshooters up in
     the trees, had ere now so thinned the ranks of Col. Hawley's
     command that his line was gone, and the 8th Phalanx met the
     remnant of his brigade as it was going to the rear in
     complete disorder. The rebels ceased firing and halted as
     the Phalanx took position between them and their fleeing
     comrades. They halted not perforce, but apparently for
     deliberation, when with one fell swoop in the next moment
     they swept the field in their front.

     "The Phalanx did not, however, quit the field in a
     panic-stricken manner but fell hastily back to the battery,
     only to find two of the guns silent and their brave workers
     and horses nearly all of them dead upon the field. With a
     courage undaunted, surpassed by no veteran troops on any
     battle-field, the Phalanx attempted to save the silent guns.
     In this effort Col. Fribley was killed, in the torrent of
     rebel bullets which fell upon the regiment. It held the two
     guns, despite two desperate charges made by the enemy to
     capture them, but the stubbornness of the Phalanx was no
     match for the ponderous weight of their enemy's column,
     their sharpshooters and artillery mowing down ranks of their
     comrades at every volley. A grander spectacle was never
     witnessed than that which this regiment gave of gallant
     courage. They left their guns only when their line officers
     and three hundred and fifty of their valiant soldiers were
     dead upon the field, the work of an hour and a half. The
     battery lost forty of its horses and four of its brave men.
     The Phalanx saved the colors of the battery with its own.
     Col. Barton's brigade, the 47th, 48th and 115th New York,
     during the fight on the right had held the enemy in the
     front and center at bay, covering Elder's battery, and nobly
     did they do their duty, bravely maintaining the reputation
     they had won before Charleston, but like the other troops,
     the contest was too unequal. The rebels outnumbered them
     five to one, and they likewise gave way, leaving about a
     fourth of their number upon the field, dead and wounded.

     "Col. Montgomery's brigade, comprising two Phalanx
     regiments, 54th Massachusetts and 1st North Carolina, which
     had been held in reserve about a mile down the road, now
     came up at double-quick. They were under heavy marching
     orders, with ten days' rations in their knapsacks, besides
     their cartridge boxes they carried ten rounds in their
     overcoat pockets. The road was sandy, and the men often
     found their feet beneath the sand, but with their wonted
     alacrity they speed on up the road, the 54th leading in
     almost a locked running step, followed closely by the 1st
     North Carolina. As they reached the road intersected by the
     railroad they halted in the rear of what remained of
     Hamilton's battery, loading a parting shot. The band of the
     54th took position on the side of the road, and while the
     regiments were unstringing knapsacks as coolly as if about
     to bivouac, the music of the band burst out on the
     sulphurous air, amid the roar of artillery, the rattle of
     musketry and the shouts of commands, mingling its
     soul-stirring strains with the deafening yells of the
     charging columns, right, left, and from the rebel center.
     Thus on the very edge of the battle, nay, in the battle, the
     Phalanx band poured out in heroic measures 'The Star
     Spangled Banner.' Its thrilling notes, soaring above the
     battles' gales, aroused to new life and renewed energy the
     panting, routed troops, flying in broken and disordered
     ranks from the field. Many of them halted, the New York
     troops particularly, and gathered at the battery again,
     pouring a deadly volley into the enemy's works and ranks.
     The 54th had but a moment to prepare for the task. General
     Seymour rode up and appealed to the Phalanx to check the
     enemy and save the army from complete and total
     annihilation. Col. Montgomery gave Col. Hallowell the order
     'Forward,' pointing to the left, and away went the 54th
     Phalanx regiment through the woods, down into the swamp,
     wading up to their knees--in places where the water reached
     their hips; yet on they went till they reached terra firma.
     Soon the regiment stood in line of battle, ready to meet the
     enemy's advancing cavalry, emerging from the extreme left.

     "'Hold your fire!' the order ran down the line. Indeed, it
     was trying. The cavalry had halted but the enemy, in their
     rifle-pits in the center of their line, poured volley after
     volley into the ranks of the Phalanx, which it stood like a
     wall of granite, holding at bay the rebel cavalry hanging on
     the edge of a pine grove. The 1st Phalanx regiment entered
     the field in front, charged the rebels in the centre of the
     line, driving them into their rifle-pits, and then for half
     an hour the carnage became frightful. They had followed the
     rebels into the very jaws of death, and now Col. Reid found
     his regiment in the enemy's enfilading fire, and they swept
     his line. Men fell like snowflakes. Driven by this terrific
     fire, they fell back. The 54th had taken ground to the
     right, lending whatever of assistance they could to their
     retiring comrades, who were about on a line with them, for
     although retreating, it was in the most cool and deliberate
     manner, and the two regiments began a firing at will against
     which the rebels, though outnumbering them, could not face.
     Thus they held them till long after sunset, and firing
     ceased.

     "The slaughter was terrible; the Phalanx lost about 800 men,
     the white troops about 600. It was Braddock's defeat after
     the lapse of a century."

The rout was complete; the army was not only defeated but beaten and demoralized. The enemy
had succeeded in drawing it into a trap for the purpose of annihilating it. Seymour had advanced,
contrary to the orders given him by General Gillmore, from Baldwin's Station, where he was
instructed to intrench and await orders. Whether or not he sought to retrieve the misfortunes
that had attended him in South Carolina, in assaulting the enemy's works, is a question which
need not be discussed here. It is only necessary to show the miserable mismanagement of the
advance into the enemy's country. The troops were marched into an ambuscade, where they were
slaughtered by the enemy at will. Even after finding his troops ambuscaded, and within two
hundred yards of the confederate fortifications, General Seymour did not attempt to fall back
and form a line of battle, though he had sufficient artillery, but rushed brigade after brigade
up to the enemy's guns, only to be mowed down by the withering storm of shot. Each brigade
in turn went in as spirited as any troops ever entered a fight, but stampeded out of it maimed,
mangled and routed. At sunset the road, foot-paths and woods leading back to Saunders' Station,
was full of brave soldiers hastening from the massacre of their comrades, in their endeavor
to escape capture. At about nine o'clock that night, what remained of the left column, Colonel
Montgomery's brigade, consisting of the 54th and 35th Phalanx Regiments, and a battery, arrived
at the Station, and reported the confederates in hot pursuit.

Instantly the shattered, scattered troops fled to the roads leading to Barber's, ten miles
away, with no one to command. Each man took his own route for Barber's, leaving behind whatever
would encumber him,--arms, ammunition, knapsacks and cartridge boxes; many of the latter containing
forty rounds of cartridges. It was long past midnight when Barber's was reached, and full day
before the frightened mob arrived at the Station. At sunrise on the morning of the 21st, the
scene presented at Barber's was sickening and sad. The wounded lay everywhere, upon the ground,
huddled around the embers of fagot fires, groaning and uttering cries of distress. The surgeons
were busy relieving, as best they could, the more dangerously wounded. The foot-sore and hungry
soldiers sought out their bleeding and injured comrades and placed them upon railroad flats,
standing upon the tracks, and when these were loaded, ropes and strong vines were procured
and fastened to the flats. Putting themselves in the place of a locomotive,--several of which
stood upon the track at Jacksonville,--the mangled and mutilated forms of about three hundred
soldiers were dragged forward mile after mile. Just in the rear, the confederates kept up a
fire of musketry, as though to hasten on the stampede. It was well into the night when the
train reached Baldwin's, where it was thought the routed force would occupy the extensive work
encircling the station, but they did not stop; their race was continued to Jacksonville. At
Baldwin's an agent of the Christian Commission gave the wounded each two crackers, without
water. This over with, the train started for Jacksonville, ten miles further. The camp of Colonel
Beecher's command, 2nd Phalanx Regiment, was reached, and here coffee was furnished. At daylight
the train reached Jacksonville, where the wounded were carried to the churches and cared for.
The battle and the retreat had destroyed every vestige of distinction based upon color. The
troops during the battle had fought together, as during the stampede they had endured its horrors
together.

The news of the battle and defeat reached Beaufort the night of the 23rd of February. It was
so surprising that it was doubted, but when a boat load of wounded men arrived, all doubts
were dispelled.

Colonel T. W. Higginson, who was at Beaufort at the time with his regiment, (1st S. C), thus
notes the reception of the news in his diary, which we quote with a few comments from his admirable
book, "Army Life in a Black Regiment":

                                  "'FEBRUARY, 19TH.

At daybreak on the 8th of March, 1864, the 7th Regiment, having left Camp Stanton, Maryland,
on the 4th and proceeded to Portsmouth, Va., embarked on board the steamer "Webster" for the
Department of the South. Arriving at Hilton Head, the regiment went into camp for a few days,
then it embarked for Jacksonville, Fla., at which place it remained for some time, taking part
in several movements into the surrounding country and participating in a number of quite lively
skirmishes. On the 27th of June a considerable portion of the Regiment was ordered to Hilton
Head, where it arrived on July 1st; it went from there to James Island, where with other troops
a short engagement with the confederates was had. Afterwards the regiment returned to Jacksonville,
Fla., remaining in that vicinity engaged in raiding the adjacent territory until the 4th of
August, when the regiment was ordered to Virginia, to report to the Army of the Potomoc, where
it arrived on Aug. 8th. The 55th Massachusetts Regiment was also ordered to the Department
of the South, It left Boston July 21st, 1863, on the steamer "Cahawba," and arrived at Newbern
on the 25th. After a few days of rest, to recover from the effects of the voyage, the regiment
was put into active service, and performed a large amount of marching and of the arduous duties
required of a soldier. Many skirmishes and actions of more or less importance were participated
in. February 13th, 1864, the regiment took a steamer for Jacksonville, Fla., and spent considerable
time in that section and at various points on the St. Johns river. In June the regiment was
ordered to the vicinity of Charleston, and took part in several of the engagements which occurred
in that neighborhood, always sustaining and adding to the reputation they were acquiring for
bravery and good soldierly conduct. The regiment passed its entire time of active service in
the department to which it was first sent, and returned to Boston, Mass., where it was mustered
out, amid great rejoicing, on the 23rd of September, 1865.

The battles in which the 54th Regiment were engaged were some of the most sanguinary of the
war. The last fight of the regiment, which, like the battle of New Orleans, took place after
peace was declared, is thus described by the Drummer Boy of Company C, Henry A. Monroe, of
New Bedford, Mass.:

BOYKIN'S MILL.[27]

    One wailing bugle note,--
    Then at the break of day,
    With Martial step and gay.
    The army takes its way
    From Camden town.

    There lay along the path,
    Defending native land;
    A daring, desperate band
    Entrenched on either hand
    In ambuscade.

    A low and dark ravine
    Beneath a rugged hill,
    Where stood the Boykin Mill
    Spanning the creek, whose rill
    Flows dark an deep.

    Only a narrow bank
    Where one can scarcely tread:
    Thick branches meet o'erhead;
    Across the mill-pond's bed
    A bridge up-torn.

    One single sharp report!
    A hundred muskets peal,--
    A wild triumphant yell,
    As back the army fell
    Stunned, bleeding, faint.

    As when some mighty rock
    Obstructs the torrent's course,
    After the moment's pause
    Twill rush with greater force
    Resistless on.

    A moment's pause and then,
    Our leader from his post,
    Viewing the stricken host.
    Cried 'Comrades, all is lost
    If we now fail!'

    Forming in single file.
    They gaze with bated breath,
    Around--before--beneath--
    On every hand, stern Death
    His visage showed.

    'Forward!' They quickly spring
    With leveled bayonet;
    Each eye is firmly set
    Upon that pathway wet
    With crimson gore.

    That 'Balaklava' dash!
    Right through the leaden hail.
    O'er dyke mid timbers frail,
    With hearts that never fail
    They boldly charge.

    Facing the scathing fire
    Without a halt or break;
    Save when with moan or shriek,
    In the blood-mingled creek
    The wounded fall.

    What could resist that charge?
    Above the battle's roar,
    There swells a deafening cheer
    Telling to far and near,
    The Mill is won!

The slaughter was terrible, and among the killed was young Lieutenant Stevenson, a graduate
of Harvard. The affair was an unnecessary sacrifice of human life, for the war was over, peace
had been declared, and President Lincoln had been assassinated; but in the interior of the
Carolinas, the news did not reach until it was too late to prevent this final bloodshed of
the war. Perhaps it may be regarded as a fitting seal of the negro to his new covenant with
freedom and his country.

The very large number of negro troops which General Gillmore had under his command in the Department
of the South, afforded him a better opportunity to test their fitness for and quality as soldiers,
than any other commander had. In fact the artillery operations in Charleston harbor, conducted
throughout with remarkable engineering skill, perseverence and bravery, won for General Gillmore
and his troops the attention and admiration of the civilized world, and an exceptional place
in the annals of military siege. Such fame is sufficient to prompt an inquiry into the capacity
of the men who performed the labor of planting the "Swamp Angel," which threw three hundred
pound shot into the heart of Charleston, more than four miles away, and also mounted the six
200-pound cannons which demolished the forts in the harbor two miles distant. The work of mounting
these immense guns in swamp and mud could only be done by men who feared neither fatigue, suffering
nor death. After the accomplishment of these worlds, wonders, and the subjugation of "arrogant"
Wagner, the following circular was addressed to the subordinate engineers for information regarding
the negro troops, which drew forth explicit and interesting answers:

     "COLORED TROOPS FOR WORK.--CIRCULAR.

     "HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH,

     "ENGINEER'S OFFICE, MORRIS ISLAND, S. C., Sept. 10th, 1863.

     "As the important experiment which will test the fitness of
     the American negro for the duties of a soldier is now being
     tried, it is desirable that facts bearing on the question be
     carefully observed and recorded.

     "It is probable that in no military operations of the war
     have negro troops done so large a proportion, and so
     important and hazardous, fatigue duty, as in the siege
     operations on this island.

     "As you have directed the operations of working parties of
     both white and black troops here, I respectfully ask, for
     the object above stated, an impartial and carefully prepared
     answer to the following inquiries, together with such
     statements as you choose to make bearing on this question:

     "I. Courage as indicated by their behavior under fire.

     "II. Skill and appreciation of their duties, referring to
     the quality of the work performed.

     "III. Industry and perseverence, with reference, to the
     quantity of the work performed.

     "IV. If a certain work were to be accomplished in the least
     possible time, i. e., when enthusiasm and direct personal
     interest is necessary to attain the end, would whites or
     blacks answer best?

     "V. What is the difference, considering the above points
     between colored troops recruited from the free States and
     those from the slave States?

         "Very respectfully your obedient servant,

                                  "T. B. BROOKS,

     "Major, Aide-de-Camp and Ass't Engineer."

Six replies to these enquiries were received from engineer officers who had been engaged in
the siege, the substance of which is embraced in the following summary, following which two
replies are given in full,

     "1. To the first question all answer that the black is more
     timorous than the white, but is in a corresponding degree
     more docile and obedient, hence more completely under the
     control of his commander, and much more influenced by his
     example.

     "2. All agree that the black is less skillful than the white
     soldier, but still enough so for most kinds of siege work.

     "3. The statements unanimously agree that the black will do
     a greater amount of work than the white soldier because he
     labors more constantly.

     "4. The whites are decidedly superior in enthusiasm. The
     blacks cannot be easily hurried in their work, no matter
     what the emergency.

     "5. All agree that the colored troops recruited from free
     States are superior to those recruited from slave States.

     "It may with propriety be repeated here, that the average
     percentage of sick among the negro troops during the siege
     was 13.9, while that of the white infantry was 20.1 per
     cent.

     "The percentage of tours of duty performed by the blacks as
     compared with the white infantry, was as 56 to 41. But the
     grand guard duty, which was considered much more wearing
     than fatigue, was all done by the whites.

     "The efficiency and health of a battalion depends so much
     upon its officers, that, in order to institute a fair
     comparison, when so small a number of troops are considered,
     this element should be eliminated. This has not, however,
     been attempted in this paper."

               [Reply in Full No. 1.]

                       "MORRIS ISLAND, S. C., Sept. 11th, 1863.

     "MAJOR:--In answer to your several queries as per circular
     of September 10, 1863, requesting my opinion as to the
     relative merits of white and black troops, for work in the
     trenches, I have the honor to make the the following
     replies:

     "I. 'Their courage as indicated by their behavior under
     fire.' I will say, in my opinion, their courage is rather of
     the passive than the active kind. They will stay, endure,
     resist, and follow, but they have not the restless,
     aggressive spirit. I do not believe they will desert their
     officers in trying moments, in so great numbers as the
     whites; they have not the will, audacity or fertility of
     excuse of the straggling white, and at the same time they
     have not the heroic, nervous energy, or vivid perception of
     the white, who stands firm or presses forward.

     "I do not remember a single instance, in my labors in the
     trenches, where the black man has skulked away from his
     duty, and I know that instances of that kind have occurred
     among the whites; still I think that the superior energy and
     intelligence of those remaining, considering that the whites
     were the lesser number by the greater desertion, would more
     than compensate.

     "II. 'Skill and appreciation of their duties referring to
     the quality of the work.'

     "They have a fair share of both; enough to make them very
     useful and efficient, but they have not apparently that
     superior intelligence and skill that may be found largely
     among the non-commissioned officers and privates of the
     white regiments.

     "III. 'Industry and perseverence with reference to the
     quantity of the work done.'

     "I think they will do more than the whites; they do not have
     so many complaints and excuses, but stick to their work
     patiently, doggedly, obediently, and accomplish a great
     deal, though I have never known them to work with any marked
     spirit or energy. I should liken the white man to the horse
     (often untractable and balky), the black man to the ox.

     "It seems to me that there is a hard nervous organization at
     the bottom of the character of the white, and a soft
     susceptible one at the bottom of the character of the black.

     "Summary.--To me they compare favorably with the whites;
     they are easily handled, true and obedient; there is less
     viciousness among them; they are more patient; they have
     great constancy. The character of the white, as you know,
     runs to extremes; one has bull-dog courage, another is a
     pitiful cur; one is excessively vicious, another pure and
     noble. The phases of the character of the white touches the
     stars and descends to the lowest depths. The blacks
     character occupies the inner circle. Their status is
     mediocrity, and this mediocrity and uniformity, for military
     fatigue duty, I think, answers best.

                    "I am respectfully your obedient servant,

                                        "JOSEPH WALKER.

                       "Captain New York Volunteer Engineers.

     "Major T. B. BROOKS,

                    "Aide-de-Camp and Ass't. Eng. Dept. of the South."

                     [Reply in Full No. 2.]

                                  "MORRIS ISLAND, Sept. 16th, 1863.

         "MAJOR T. B. BROOKS, Ass't. Engineer Dept. of the South.

     "SIR: I have the honor to state that I received from you a
     circular of inquiry respecting the comparative merits of
     white and black soldiers for fatigue duty, requesting my
     opinion as derived from observation and actual intercourse
     with them, on several specified points, which I subjoin with
     the respective answers.

     "I. 'Courage as indicated by conduct under fire.'

     "I have found that the black troops manifest more timidity
     under fire than the white troops, but they are at the same
     time more obedient to orders, and more under control of
     their officers, in dangerous situations, than white
     soldiers.

     "II. 'Skill and appreciation of their duties with reference
     to the quality of the work performed.'

     "White soldiers are more intelligent and experienced and of
     course more skillful than the black ones, but they have not
     generally a corresponding appreciation of their duties. As a
     consequence I have found in most cases the work as well done
     by black as by white soldiers.

     "III. 'Industry and perseverence with reference to the
     amount of work performed.'

     "White soldiers work with more energy while they do work
     than the black ones, but do not work as constantly. Black
     soldiers seldom intermit their labors except by orders or
     permission. The result, as far as my observations extends,
     is that a greater amount of work is usually accomplished
     with black than with white soldiers. Because though requiring more effort to control,
     they possess a greater energy of character and
     susceptibility of enthusiasm than the black race, which can
     be called into action by an emergency or by a sufficient
     effort on the part of their officers.

     "The problem involved in the foregoing investigation is more
     difficult of a solution than appears at first sight, owing
     to the fact that the degree of efficiency peculiar to any
     company of troops depends so much on the character of their
     officers, an element that must eliminate from the question
     in order to ascertain the quality of the material of which
     the troops are composed.

                  "I have the honor to be your obedient servant,

                                                 "H. FARRAND,

         "1st Lieut. New York Volunteer Engineers."

In his report to Major-General Gillmore, dated "Morris Island, Sept. 27th, 1863," Major Brooks,
his Assistant Engineer, says: "Of the numerous infantry regiments which furnished fatigue details,
the Fourth New Hampshire Volunteers did the most and best work. Next follow the blacks, the
Fifty-fourth Massachusetts Volunteers, and Third United States Colored Troops."

Annexed to these reports is also a statement of the labor days of the troops.

     "WORKING PARTIES AND HEALTH OF TROOPS.

     "The total number of days' work, of six hours each, expended
     in Major Brooks' operations was, by engineers, 4,500, and by
     infantry 19,000, total 23,500; of the 19,000 days' work by
     infantry, one-half was performed by colored troops. In
     addition to the above, 9,500 days' work was expended in
     preparing siege materials for Major Brooks' operations. The
     infantry soldiers' days' work is about one-fifth what a
     citizen laborer would do on civil works. Of my work, over
     eight-twentieths was against Wagner, about seven-twentieths
     on the defensive lines, and nearly five-twentieths on the
     batteries against Sumter.

     "The approximate amount of labor actually expended on the
     more important works is as follows: One emplacement for a
     siege piece, 40 days; one emplacement for a heavy breaching
     gun, 100 days; one bomb-proof magazine, 250 days;
     construction and repairs of each yard of approach having
     splinter-proof parapet, 2 days; a lineal yard of narrow
     splinter-proof shelter, 4 days; a lineal yard of wide
     splinter-proof shelter, 8 days; to make and set one yard of
     inclined palisading, 2 days.

     "At least three-fourths of the manual labor was simply
     shoveling sand; one-half of the remainder was carrying
     engineer material. The balance was employed in various kinds
     of work.

     "About three-fourths of this work was executed in the
     night-time, and at least nine-tenths of it under a fire of
     artillery or sharpshooters, or both. The sharpshooters
     seldom fired during the night. The artillery fire was most
     severe during the day. Thirty-five projectiles fired by the
     enemy at our works per hour was called "heavy firing,"
     although sometimes more than double that number were thrown.

     "In the order of their number the projectiles were from
     smooth-bore guns, mortars, and rifled guns.

     "The James Island batteries were from two thousand to four
     thousand yards from our works; Fort Sumter and Battery Gregg
     were respectively about three thousand five hundred and two
     thousand one hundred; Fort Wagner was from thirteen hundred
     to one hundred yards.

     "The total number of casualties in the working parties and
     the guard of the advanced trenches, (not including the main
     guard of the trenches), during the siege, was about one
     hundred and fifty. When it is considered that on an average
     over two hundred men were constantly engaged in these
     duties, being under fire for fifty days, the number of
     casualties is astonishingly small.

     "The camp at which the fatigue parties were quartered and
     fed were, in order to be beyond the reach of the enemy's
     fires, two miles from the centre of the works; hence the
     distance of four miles had to be marched each tour of duty,
     which required nearly two hours, and added greatly to the
     labor of the siege.

     "This siege has been conducted through the hottest part of
     the season,--July, August and September,--yet the troops
     have suffered but little from excess in heat, on account of
     the large proportion of night work, and the almost continual
     sea-breeze, which was always cool and refreshing.

     "The amount of sickness was great, the large amount of duty
     being the probable cause. On the 7th of August the
     percentage was the smallest observed during the siege, being
     18.6. At this date the aggregate garrison of Morris Island
     was 9,353, of which 1,741 were sick. On the 17th of August
     22.9 per cent. of the whole garrison were on the sick list.
     This was the most unhealthy period of the siege.

     "The average strength of the command on Morris Island during
     the siege was, of all arms, 10,678 men, of which the average
     percentage sick was 19.88. The number of black troops varied
     from 1,127 to 1947.

     "Average percentage of sick in Artillery, 6.2; ditto, in
     Engineers, 11.9; ditto, in Black Infantry, 13.9; ditto, in
     White Infantry, (excluding one brigade), 20.1.

     "This brigade consisted of the Ninety-seventh Pennsylvania,
     Twenty-fourth Massachusetts and Tenth Connecticut
     Volunteers. It averaged thirty per cent sick. This was due
     to the fact that these three regiments had been stationed,
     before moving to Morris Island, on Seabrook Island, which
     proved very unhealthy. The engineers and black infantry were
     employed exclusively on fatigue duty. The white infantry
     served as guard of the trenches, as well as for work in the
     same.

     "Details from the troops on Folly Island took part in the
     operations on Morris Island.

     "It was found by experience that men under these
     circumstances could not work more than one-fourth the time.
     A greater amount at once increased the sick list. Eight
     hours in thirty-two, or eight hours on and twenty-four off,
     was found to be the best arrangement, as it made a daily
     change in the hours of duty for those regiments permanently
     detailed for work.

     "The organization found most advantageous in working a
     command permanently detailed for fatigue duty, was to divide
     its effective force into four equal detachments, on duty
     eight hours each, relieving each other at 4 A. M., 12 M. and
     8 P. M. The large number of extra troops employed in the
     trenches each night were usually changed daily.

     "The engineer officers in charge of the works were divided
     into corresponding groups, four in each, relieving each
     other at 8 A. M., 4 P. M., and 12 midnight, four hours
     different from the time of relieving the troops. This
     difference enabled the engineer officers to carry the work
     through the period of relieving the fatigue details.

     "One engineer officer, having from two to four different
     kinds or jobs of work to superintend, was found to work
     advantageously in the night, with the help of
     non-commissioned officers of engineers, from one hundred to
     two hundred men.

     "The working parties of engineers and black infantry seldom
     carried their arms into the trenches, while the white
     infantry fatigue parties usually did."

FOOTNOTES:

[27] NOTE.--Boykin's Mill, a few miles from Camden, S. C, was the scene of one of the bloodiest
skirmishes that the 54th Regt. ever participated in. We had literally fought every step of
the way from Georgetown to Camden, and the enemy made a last desperate stand at this place.
No better position could be found for a defense, as the only approach to it, was by a narrow
embankment about 200 yards long, where only one could walk at a time. The planks of the bridge
over the mill-race were torn up, compelling the troops to cross on the timbers and cross-ties,
under a galling fire which swept the bridge and embankment, rendering it a fearful 'way of
death.' The heroes of Wagner and Olustee did not shrink from the trial, but actually charged
in single file. The first to step upon the fatal path, went down like grass before the scythe,
but over their prostrate bodies came their comrades, until the enemy, panic-stricken by such
determined daring, abandoned their position and fled.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ARMY OF THE CUMBERLAND.

Important services were rendered by the Phalanx in the West. The operations in Missouri, Tennessee
and Kentucky, afforded an excellent opportunity to the commanders of the Union forces to raise
negro troops in such portions of the territory as they held; but in consequence of the bitterness
against such action by the semi-Unionists and Copperheads in the Department of the Ohio and
Cumberland, it was not until the fall of 1863 that the organizing of such troops in these Departments
fairly began. The Mississippi was well-nigh guarded by Phalanx regiments enlisted along that
river, numbering about fifty thousand men. They garrisoned the fortifications, and occupied
the captured towns. Later on, however, when the confederate General Bragg began preparations
for the recovery of the Tennessee Valley, organization of the Phalanx commenced in earnest,
and proceeded with a rapidity that astounded even those who were favorable to the policy. St.
Louis became a depot and Benton Barracks a recruiting station, from whence, in the fall of
1863, went many a regiment of brave black men, whose chivalrous deeds will ever live in the
annals of the nation. It was not long after this time that the noble Army of the Cumberland
began to receive a portion of the black troops, whose shouts rang through the mountain fastnesses.
The record made by the 60th Regiment is the boast of the State of Iowa, to which it was accredited:
but of those which went to the assistance of General Thomas' army none won greater distinction
and honor than the gallant brigade commanded by Colonel T. J. Morgan, afterwards raised to
Brigadier-General. The gallant 14th Infantry was one of its regiments, the field officers of
which were Colonel, Thomas J. Morgan, who had been promoted through various grades, from a
1st Lieutenancy in the 70th Indiana Volunteer Infantry; Lieutenant-Colonel, H. C. Corbin, who
had risen from a 1st Lieutenancy of the 79th O. V. I., and Major N. J. Vail, who had served
as an enlisted man in the 19th Illinois Volunteers. All the officers passed a rigid examination
before the board of examiners appointed by the War Department for that purpose.

General Morgan, by request furnishes the following highly interesting and historical statement
of his services with the Phalanx Brigade:

     "The American Civil War of 1861-5 marks an epoch not only in
     the history of the United States, but in that of democracy,
     and of civilization. Its issue has vitally affected the
     course of human progress. To the student of history it ranks
     along with the conquests of Alexander; the incursions of the
     Barbarians; the Crusades; the discovery of America and the
     American Revolution. It settled the question of our National
     unity with all the consequences attaching thereto. It
     exhibited in a very striking manner the power of a free
     people to preserve their form of government against its most
     dangerous foe, Civil War. It not only enfranchised four
     millions of American slaves of African descent, but made
     slavery forever impossible in the great Republic, and gave a
     new impulse to the cause of human freedom. Its influence
     upon American slaves was immediate and startlingly
     revolutionary, lifting them from the condition of despised
     chattels, bought and sold like sheep in the market, with no
     rights which the white man was bound to respect,--to the
     exalted plane of American citizenship; made them free men,
     the peers in every civil and political right, of their late
     masters. Within about a decade after the close of the war,
     negroes, lately slaves, were legislators, state officers,
     members of Congress, and for a brief time one presided over
     the Senate of the United States, where only a few years
     before, Toombs had boasted that he would yet call the roll
     of his slaves in the shade of Bunker Hill.

     "To-day slavery finds no advocate, and the colored race in
     America is making steady progress in all the elements of
     civilization. The conduct of the American slave during, and
     since the war, has wrought an extraordinary change in public
     sentiment, regarding the capabilities of the race.

     "The manly qualities of the negro soldiers, evinced in camp,
     on the march and in battle, won for them golden opinions,
     made their freedom a necessity and their citizenship a
     certainty.

     "Those of us who assisted in organizing, disciplining and
     leading negro troops in battle, may, perhaps, be pardoned
     for feeling a good degree of pride in our share of the
     thrilling events of the great war.

     "When Sumter was fired upon, April, 1861, I was 21; a member
     of the Senior Class in Franklin College, Indiana. I enlisted
     in the 7th Indiana Volunteer infantry and served as a
     private soldier for three months in West Virginia, under
     Gen. McClellan,--'the young Napoleon,' as he was even then
     known. I participated in the battle of Carricks Ford, where
     Gen. Garnett was killed and his army defeated. In August,
     1862, I re-enlisted as a First Lieutenant in the 70th
     Indiana, (Col. Benjamin Harrison) and saw service in
     Kentucky and Tennessee.

     "In January 1863, Abraham Lincoln issued the Proclamation of
     Emancipation, and incorporated in it the policy of arming
     the negro for special service in the Union army. Thus the
     question was fairly up, and I entered into its discussion
     with the deepest interest, as I saw that upon its settlement
     hung great issues.

     "On the one hand the opponents of the policy maintained that
     to make soldiers of the negroes would be to put them on the
     same level with white soldiers, and so be an insult to every
     man who wore the blue. It was contended, too, that the negro
     was not fit for a soldier because he belonged to a degraded,
     inferior race, wanting in soldierly qualities; that his long
     bondage had crushed out whatever of manliness he might
     naturally possess; that he was too grossly ignorant to
     perform, intelligently, the duties of the soldier; that his
     provocation had been so great as a slave, that when once
     armed, and conscious of his power as a soldier, he would
     abuse it by acts of revenge and wanton cruelty.

     "It was urged, on the other hand, that in its fearful
     struggle for existence, the Republic needed the help of the
     able-bodied negroes; that with their natural instincts of
     self-preservation, desire for liberty, habit of obedience,
     power of imitation, love of pomp and parade, acquaintance
     with the southern country and adaptation to its climate,
     they had elements which peculiarly fitted them for soldiers.
     It was further urged that the negro had more at stake than
     the white man, and that he should have a chance to strike a
     blow for himself. It was particularly insisted upon that he
     needed just the opportunity which army service afforded to
     develop and exhibit whatever of manliness he possessed. As
     the war progressed, and each great battle-field was piled
     with heaps of the killed and wounded of our best citizens,
     men looked at each other seriously, and asked if a black man
     would not stop a bullet as well as a white man? Miles
     O'Reilly at length voiced a popular sentiment when he said,

     "'The right to be killed I'll divide with the nayger,
     And give him the largest half.'

     "With the strong conviction that the negro was a man worthy
     of freedom, and possessed of all the essential qualities of
     a good soldier, I early advocated the organization of
     colored regiments,--not for fatigue or garrison duty, but
     for field service.

     "In October, 1863, having applied for a position as an
     officer in the colored service, I was ordered before the
     Board of Examiners at Nashville, Tennessee, where I spent
     five rather anxious hours. When I entered the army I knew
     absolutely nothing of the details of army life; had never
     even drilled with a fire company. During the first three
     months I gathered little except a somewhat rough
     miscellaneous experience. As a lieutenant and staff officer
     I learned something, but as I had never had at any time
     systematic instruction from any one, I appeared before the
     Board with little else than vigorous health, a college
     education, a little experience as a soldier, a good
     reputation as an officer, a fair amount of common sense and
     a good supply of zeal. The Board averaged me, and
     recommended me for a Major.

     "A few days after the examination, I received an order to
     report to Major George L. Stearns, who had charge of the
     organization of colored troops in that Department. He
     assigned me to duty temporarily in a camp in Nashville.
     Major Stearns was a merchant in Boston, who had been for
     years an ardent abolitionist, and who, among other good
     deeds, had befriended John Brown. He was a large-hearted,
     broad-minded genial gentleman. When the policy of organizing
     colored troops was adopted, he offered his services to the
     Government, received an appointment as Assistant Adjutant
     General, and was ordered to Nashville to organize colored
     regiments. He acted directly under the Secretary of War, and
     independently of the Department Commander. To his zeal, good
     judgment and efficient labor, was due, very largely, the
     success of the work in the West.

     "November 1st, 1863, by order of Major Stearns, I went to
     Gallatin, Tennessee, to organize the 14th United States
     Colored Infantry. General E. A. Paine was then in command of
     the post at Gallatin, having under him a small detachment of
     white troops. There were at that time several hundred negro
     men in camp, in charge of, I think, a lieutenant. They were
     a motley crowd,--old, young, middle aged. Some wore the
     United States uniform, but most of them had on the clothes
     in which they had left the plantations, or had worn during
     periods of hard service as laborers in the army. Gallatin at
     that time was threatened with an attack by the guerilla
     bands then prowling over that part of the State. General
     Paine had issued a hundred old muskets and rifles to the
     negroes in camp. They had not passed a medical examination,
     had no company organization and had had no drill. Almost
     immediately upon my arrival, as an attack was imminent, I
     was ordered to distribute another hundred muskets, and to
     'prepare every available man for fight.' I did the best I
     could under the circumstances, but am free to say that I
     regard it as a fortunate circumstance that we had no
     fighting to do at that time. But the men raw, and, untutored
     as they were, did guard and picket duty, went foraging,
     guarded wagon trains, scouted after guerillas, and so
     learned to soldier--by soldiering.

     "As soon and as fast as practicable, I set about organizing
     the regiment. I was a complete novice in that kind of work,
     and all the young officers who reported to me for duty, had
     been promoted from the ranks and were without experience,
     except as soldiers. The colored men knew nothing of the
     duties of a soldier, except a little they had picked up as
     camp-followers.

     "Fortunately there was one man, Mr. A. H. Dunlap, who had
     had some clerical experience with Col. Birney, in Baltimore,
     in organizing the 3rd U.S. Colored Infantry. He was an
     intelligent, methodical gentleman, and rendered me
     invaluable service. I had no Quartermaster; no Surgeon; no
     Adjutant. We had no tents, and the men were sheltered in an
     old filthy tobacco warehouse, where they fiddled, danced,
     sang, swore or prayed, according to their mood.

     "How to meet the daily demands made upon us for military
     duty, and at the same time to evoke order out of this chaos,
     was no easy problem. The first thing to be done was to
     examine the men. A room was prepared, and I and my clerk
     took our stations at a table. One by one the recruits came
     before us a la Eden, sans the fig leaves, and were
     subjected to a careful medical examination, those who were
     in any way physically disqualified being rejected. Many bore
     the wounds and bruises of the slave-driver's lash, and many
     were unfit for duty by reason of some form of disease to
     which human flesh is heir. In the course of a few weeks,
     however, we had a thousand able-bodied, stalwart men.

     "I was quite as solicitous about their mental condition as
     about their physical status, so I plied them with questions
     as to their history, their experience with the army, their
     motives for becoming soldiers, their ideas of army life,
     their hopes for the future, &c., &c. I found that a
     considerable number of them had been teamsters, cooks,
     officers' servants, &c., and had thus seen a good deal of
     hard service in both armies, in camp, on the march and in
     battle, and so knew pretty well what to expect. In this
     respect they had the advantage of most raw recruits from the
     North, who were wholly 'unused to wars' alarms.' Some of
     them had very noble ideas of manliness. I remember picturing
     to one bright-eyed fellow some of the hardships of camp life
     and campaigning, and receiving from him the cheerful reply,
     'I know all about that.' I then said, 'you may be killed in
     battle.' He instantly answered, 'many a better man than me
     has been killed in this war.' When I told another one who
     wanted to 'fight for freedom,' that he might lose his life,
     he replied, 'but my people will be free.'

     "The result of this careful examination convinced me that
     these men, though black in skin, had men's hearts, and only
     needed right handling to develope into magnificent soldiers.
     Among them were the same varieties of physique, temperament,
     mental and moral endowments and experiences, as would be
     found among the same number of white men. Some of them were
     finely formed and powerful; some were almost white; a large
     number had in their veins white blood of the F. F. V.
     quality; some were men of intelligence, and many of them
     deeply religious.

     "Acting upon my clerk's suggestion, I assigned them to
     companies according to their height, putting men of nearly
     the same height together. When the regiment was full, the
     four center companies were all composed of tall men, the
     flanking companies of men of medium height, while the little
     men were sandwiched between. The effect was excellent in
     every way, and made the regiment quite unique. It was not
     uncommon to have strangers who saw it parade for the first
     time, declare that the men were all of one size.

     "In six weeks three companies were filled, uniformed, armed,
     and had been taught many soldierly ways. They had been
     drilled in the facings, in the manual of arms, and in some
     company movements.

     "November 20th, Gen. G. H. Thomas commanding the Department
     of the Cumberland, ordered six companies to Bridgeport,
     Alabama, under command of Major H. C. Corbin. I was left at
     Gallatin to complete the organization of the other four
     companies. When the six companies were full, I was mustered
     in as Lieutenant-Colonel. The complete organization of the
     regiment occupied about two months, being finished by Jan.
     1st, 1864. The field, staff and company officers were all
     white men. All the non-commissioned officers,--Hospital
     Steward, Quartermaster, Sergeant, Sergeant-Major, Orderlies,
     Sergeants and Corporals were colored. They proved very
     efficient, and had the war continued two years longer, many
     of them would have been competent as commissioned officers.

     "When General Paine left Gallatin, I was senior officer and
     had command of the post and garrison, which included a few
     white soldiers besides my own troops. Colored soldiers acted
     as pickets, and no citizen was allowed to pass our lines
     either into the village or out, without a proper permit.
     Those presenting themselves without a pass were sent to
     headquarters under guard. Thus many proud Southern
     slave-holders found themselves marched through the street,
     guarded by those who three months before had been slaves.
     The negroes often laughed over these changed relations as
     they sat around their camp fires, or chatted together while
     off duty, but it was very rare that any Southerner had
     reason to complain of any unkind or uncivil treatment from a
     colored soldier.

     "About the first of January occurred a few days of extreme
     cold weather, which tried the men sorely. One morning after
     one of the most severe nights, the officers coming in from
     picket, marched the men to headquarters, and called
     attention to their condition: their feet were frosted and
     their hands frozen. In some instances the skin on their
     fingers had broken from the effects of the cold, and it was
     sad to see their sufferings. Some of them never recovered
     from the effects of that night, yet they bore it patiently
     and uncomplainingly.

     "An incident occurred while I was still an officer in a
     white regiment, that illustrates the curious transition
     through which the negroes were passing. I had charge of a
     company detailed to guard a wagon train out foraging. Early
     one morning, just as we were about to resume our march, a
     Kentucky lieutenant rode up to me, saluted, and said he had
     some runaway negroes whom he had arrested to send back to
     their masters, but as he was ordered away, he would turn
     them over to me. At that time a reward could be claimed for
     returning fugitive slaves. I took charge of them, and
     assuming a stern look and manner, enquired, 'Where are you
     going?' 'Going to the Yankee army.' 'What for?' 'We wants to
     be free, sir.' 'All right, you are free, go where you wish.'
     The satisfaction that came to me from their heartfelt
     'thank'ee, thank'ee sir,' gave me some faint insight into
     the sublime joy that the great emancipator must have felt
     when he penned the immortal proclamation that set free four
     millions of human beings.

     "These men afterward enlisted in my regiment, and did good
     service. One day, as we were on the march, they--through
     their lieutenant--reminded me of the circumstance, which
     they seemed to remember with lively gratitude.

     "The six companies at Bridgeport were kept very busily at
     work, and had but little opportunity for drill.
     Notwithstanding these difficulties, however, considerable
     progress was made in both drill and discipline. I made
     earnest efforts to get the regiment united and relieved from
     so much labor, in order that they might be prepared for
     efficient field service as soldiers.

     "In January I had a personal interview with General Thomas,
     and secured an order uniting the regiment at Chattanooga. We
     entered camp there under the shadow of Lookout Mountain, and
     in full view of Mission Ridge, in February, 1864. During the
     same month Adjutant General Lorenzo Thomas, from Washington,
     then on a tour of inspection, visited my regiment, and
     authorized me to substitute the eagle for the silver leaf.

     "Chattanooga was at that time the headquarters of the Army
     of the Cumberland. Gen Thomas and staff, and a considerable
     part of the army were there. Our camp was laid out with
     great regularity; our quarters were substantial, comfortable
     and well kept. The regiment numbered a thousand men, with a
     full compliment of field, staff, line and non-commissioned
     officers. We had a good drum corps, and a band provided with
     a set of expensive silver instruments. We were also fully
     equipped; the men were armed with rifled muskets, and well
     clothed. They were well drilled in the manual of arms, and
     took great pride in appearing on parade with arms burnished,
     belts polished, shoes blacked, clothes brushed, in full
     regulation uniform, including white gloves. On every
     pleasant day our parades were witnessed by officers,
     soldiers and citizens from the North, and it was not
     uncommon to have two thousand spectators. Some came to make
     sport, some from curiosity, some because it was the fashion,
     and others from a genuine desire to see for themselves what
     sort of looking soldiers negroes would make.

     "At the time that the work of organizing colored troops
     began in the West, there was a great deal of bitter
     prejudice against the movement, and white troops threatened
     to desert, if the plan should be really carried out. Those
     who entered the service were stigmatized as 'nigger
     officers,' and negro soldiers were hooted at and mal-treated
     by white ones.

     "Apropos of the prejudice against so called nigger officers,
     I may mention the following incident: While an officer in
     the 70th Indiana, I had met, and formed a passing
     acquaintance with Lieut.-Colonel ----, of the ---- Ohio
     Regiment. On New Years Day, 1864, I chanced to meet him at a
     social gathering at General Ward's headquarters in
     Nashville. I spoke to him as usual, at the same time
     offering my hand, which apparently he did not see. Receiving
     only a cool bow from him, I at once turned away. As I did so
     he remarked to those standing near him that he 'did not
     recognize these nigger officers.' In some way, I do not know
     how, a report of the occurrence came to the ears of Lorenzo
     Thomas, the Adjutant-General of the Army, then in Nashville,
     who investigated the case, and promptly dismissed Colonel
     ---- from the United States service.

     "Very few West Point officers had any faith in the success
     of the enterprise, and most Northern people perhaps,
     regarded it as at best a dubious experiment. A college
     classmate of mine, a young man of intelligence and earnestly
     loyal, although a Kentuckian, and a slave-holder, plead with
     me to abandon my plan of entering this service, saying, 'I
     shudder to think of the remorse you may suffer, from deeds
     done by barbarians under your command.'

     "General George H. Thomas, though a Southerner, and a West
     Point graduate, was a singularly fair-minded, candid man. He
     asked me one day soon after my regiment was organized, if I
     thought my men would fight. I replied that they would. He
     said he thought 'they might behind breastworks.' I said they
     would fight in the open field. He thought not. 'Give me a
     chance General,' I replied, 'and I will prove it.'

     "Our evening parades converted thousands to a belief in
     colored troops. It was almost a daily experience to hear the
     remark from visitors, 'Men who can handle their arms as
     these do, will fight.' General Thomas paid the regiment the
     compliment of saying that he 'never saw a regiment go
     through the manual as well as this one.' We remained in
     'Camp Whipple' from February, 1864, till August, 1865, a
     period of eighteen months, and during a large part of that
     time the regiment was an object lesson to the army, and
     helped to revolutionize public opinion on the subject of
     colored soldiers.

     "My Lieutenant-Colonel and I rode over one evening to call
     on General Joe Hooker, commanding the 20th Army Corps. He
     occupied a small log hut in the Wauhatchie Valley, near
     Lookout Mountain and not far from the Tennessee river. He
     received us with great courtesy, and when he learned that we
     were officers in a colored regiment, congratulated us on our
     good fortune, saying that he 'believed they would make the
     best troops in the world.' He predicted that after the
     rebellion was subdued, it would be necessary for the United
     States to send an army into Mexico. This army would be
     composed largely of colored men, and those of us now holding
     high command, would have a chance to win great renown. He
     lamented that he had made a great mistake in not accepting a
     military command, and going to Nicaragua with General
     Walker. 'Why,' said he, 'young gentlemen, I might have
     founded an empire.'

     "While at Chattanooga, I organized two other regiments, the
     42nd and the 44th United States Colored Infantry. In
     addition to the ordinary instruction in the duties required
     of the soldier, we established in every company a regular
     school, teaching men to read and write, and taking great
     pains to cultivate in them self-respect and all manly
     qualities. Our success in this respect was ample
     compensation for our labor. The men who went on picket or
     guard duty, took their books as quite as indispensable as
     their coffee pots.

     "It must not be supposed that we had only plain sailing.
     Soon after reaching Chattanooga, heavy details began to be
     made upon us for men to work upon the fortifications then in
     process of construction around the town. This almost
     incessant labor, interfered sadly with our drill, and at one
     time all drill was suspended, by orders from headquarters.
     There seemed little prospect of our being ordered to the
     field, and as time wore on and arrangements began in earnest
     for the new campaign against Atlanta, we grew impatient for
     work, and anxious for opportunity for drill and preparations
     for field service.

     "I used every means to bring about a change, for I believed
     that the ultimate status of the negro was to be determined
     by his conduct on the battle-field. No one doubted that he
     would work, while many did doubt that he had courage to
     stand up and fight like a man. If he could take his place
     side by side with the white soldier; endure the same
     hardships on the campaign, face the same enemy, storm the
     same works, resist the same assaults, evince the same
     soldierly qualities, he would compel that respect which the
     world has always accorded to heroism, and win for himself
     the same laurels which brave soldiers have always won.

     "Personally, I shrink from danger, and most decidedly prefer
     a safe corner at my own fireside, to an exposed place in the
     face of an enemy on the battle-field, but so strongly was I
     impressed with the importance of giving colored troops a
     fair field and full opportunity to show of what mettle they
     were made, that I lost no chance of insisting upon our right
     to be ordered into the field. At one time I was threatened
     with dismissal from the service for my persistency, but that
     did not deter me, for though I had no yearning for
     martyrdom, I was determined if possible to put my regiment
     into battle, at whatever cost to myself. As I look back upon
     the matter after twenty-one years, I see no reason to regret
     my action, unless it be that I was not even more persistent
     in claiming for these men the rights of soldiers.

     "I was grievously disappointed when the first of May, 1864,
     came, and the army was to start south, leaving us behind to
     hold the forts we had helped to build.

     "I asked General Thomas to allow me, at least, to go
     along. He readily consented, and directed me to report to
     General O. O. Howard, commanding the 4th Army Corps, as
     Volunteer Aide. I did so, and remained with him thirty days,
     participating in the battles of Buzzard's Roost, Resaca,
     Adairsville and Dallas. At the end of that time, having
     gained invaluable experience, and feeling that my place was
     with my regiment, I returned to Chattanooga, determined to
     again make every possible effort to get it into active
     service.

     "A few days after I had taken my place on General Howard's
     staff, an incident occurred showing how narrowly one may
     escape death. General Stanley and a staff officer and
     General Howard and myself were making a little
     reconnoissance at Buzzards Roost. We stopped to observe the
     movements of the enemy, Stanley standing on the right,
     Howard next on his left, and I next. The fourth officer,
     Captain Flint, stood immediately in the rear of General
     Howard. A sharpshooter paid us a compliment in the shape of
     a rifle ball, which struck the ground in front of General
     Howard, ricocheted, passed through the skirt of his coat,
     through Captain Flint's cap, and buried itself in a tree
     behind.

     "At Adairsville a group of about a dozen mounted officers
     were in an open field, when the enemy exploded a shell just
     in front and over us, wounding two officers and five horses.
     A piece of the shell passed through the right fore leg of my
     horse, a kind, docile, fearless animal, that I was greatly
     attached to. I lost a friend and faithful servant.

     "On asking leave to return to my command, I was delighted to
     receive from General Howard the following note:

     "'HEADQUARTERS 4TH ARMY CORPS,

     "'ON ACKWORTH AND DALLAS ROAD, 8 MILES FROM DALLAS, GA., May
     31st 1864.

     "'COLONEL:--This is to express my thanks for your services
     upon my staff during the past month, since starting upon
     this campaign. You have given me always full satisfaction,
     and more, by your assiduous devotion to duty.

     "'You have been active and untiring on the march, and
     fearless in battle. Believe me,

         "Your friend,              O. O. HOWARD.

         "'Major-General Commanding 4th Army Corps.

     "'To Col. T.J. Morgan, Commanding 14th U. S. C. I."

     "General James B. Steadman, who won such imperishable renown
     at Chickamauga, was then in command of the District of
     Etowah, with headquarters at Chattanooga. I laid my case
     before him; he listened with interest to my plea, and
     assured me that if there was any fighting to be done in his
     district, we should have a hand in it.

     "DALTON, GA.--August 15th, 1864, we had our first fight, at
     Dalton, Georgia. General Wheeler, with a considerable force
     of confederate cavalry, attacked Dalton, which was occupied
     by a small detachment of Union troops belonging to the 2nd
     Missouri, under command of Colonel Laibold. General Steadman
     went to Laibold's aid, and forming line of battle, attacked
     and routed the Southern force. My regiment formed on the
     left of the 51st Indiana Infantry, under command of Col. A.
     D. Streight. The fight was short, and not at all severe. The
     regiment was all exposed to fire. One private was killed,
     one lost a leg, and one was wounded in the right hand.
     Company B, on the skirmish line killed five of the enemy,
     and wounded others. To us it was a great battle, and a
     glorious victory. The regiment had been recognized as
     soldiers; it had taken its place side by side with a white
     regiment; it had been under fire. The men had behaved
     gallantly. A colored soldier had died for liberty. Others
     had shed their blood in the great cause. Two or three
     incidents will indicate the significance of the day. Just
     before going into the fight, Lieutenant Keinborts said to
     his men: 'Boys, some of you may be killed, but remember you
     are fighting for liberty.' Henry Prince replied, 'I am ready
     to die for liberty.' In fifteen minutes he lay dead,--a
     rifle ball through his heart,--a willing martyr.

     "During the engagement General Steadman asked his Aide,
     Captain Davis, to look especially after the 14th colored.
     Captain Davis rode up just as I was quietly rectifying my
     line, which in a charge had been disarranged. Putting spurs
     to his horse, he dashed back to the General and reassured
     him by reporting that 'the regiment was holding dress parade
     over there under fire.' After the fight, as we marched into
     town through a pouring rain, a white regiment standing at
     rest, swung their hats and gave three rousing cheers for the
     14th Colored. Col. Streight's command was so pleased with
     the gallantry of our men that many of its members on being
     asked, 'What regiment?' frequently replied, '51st Colored.'

     "During the month of August we had some very hard marching,
     in a vain effort to have another brush with Wheeler's
     cavalry.

     "The corn in East Tennessee was in good plight for roasting,
     and our men showed great facility in cooking, and marvelous
     capacity in devouring it. Ten large ears were not too much
     for many of them. On resuming our march one day, after the
     noon halt, one of the soldiers said he was unable to walk,
     and asked permission to ride in an ambulance. His comrades
     declared that, having already eaten twelve ears of corn, and
     finding himself unable to finish the thirteenth, he
     concluded that he must be sick, and unfit for duty.

     "PULASKI, TENN.--September 27th, 1864, I reported to
     Major-General Rousseau, commanding a force of cavalry at
     Pulaski, Tenn. As we approached the town by rail from
     Nashville, we heard artillery, then musketry, and as we left
     the cars we saw the smoke of guns. Forest, with a large body
     of cavalry, had been steadily driving Rousseau before him
     all day, and was destroying the railroad. Finding the
     General, I said: 'I am ordered to report to you, sir.' 'What
     have you?' 'Two regiments of colored troops.' Rousseau was a
     Kentuckian, and had not much faith in negro soldiers. By his
     direction I threw out a strong line of skirmishers, and
     posted the regiments on a ridge, in good supporting
     distance. Rousseau's men retired behind my line, and
     Forest's men pressed forward until they met our fire, and
     recognizing the sound of the minie ball, stopped to reflect.

     "The massacre of colored troops at Fort Pillow was well
     known to us, and had been fully discussed by our men. It was
     rumored, and thoroughly credited by them, that General
     Forest had offered a thousand dollars for the head of any
     commander of a 'nigger regiment.' Here, then, was just such
     an opportunity as those spoiling for a fight might desire.
     Negro troops stood face to face with Forest's veteran
     cavalry. The fire was growing hotter, and balls were
     uncomfortably thick. At length, the enemy in strong force,
     with banners flying, bore down toward us in full sight,
     apparently bent on mischief. Pointing to the advancing
     column, I said, as I passed along the line, 'Boys, it looks
     very much like fight; keep cool, do your duty.' They seemed
     full of glee, and replied with great enthusiasm: 'Colonel,
     dey can't whip us, dey nebber get de ole 14th out of heah,
     nebber.' 'Nebber, drives us away widout a mighty lot of dead
     men,' &c., &c.

     "When Forest learned that Rousseau was re-enforced by
     infantry, he did not stop to ask the color of the skin, but
     after testing our line, and finding it unyielding, turned to
     the east, and struck over toward Murfreesboro.

     "An incident occurred here, illustrating the humor of the
     colored soldier. A spent ball struck one of the men on the
     side of the head, passed under the scalp, and making nearly
     a circuit of the skull, came out on the other side. His
     comrades merrily declared that when the ball struck him, it
     sang out 'too thick' and passed on.

     "As I was walking with my adjutant down toward the picket
     line, a ball struck the ground immediately in front of us,
     about four feet away, but it was so far spent as to be
     harmless. We picked it up and carried it along.

     "Our casualties consisted of a few men slightly wounded. We
     had not had a battle, but it was for us a victory, for our
     troops had stood face to face with a triumphant force of
     Southern cavalry, and stopped their progress. They saw that
     they had done what Rousseau's veterans could not do. Having
     traveled 462 miles, we returned to Chattanooga, feeling that
     we had gained valuable experience, and we eagerly awaited
     the next opportunity for battle, which was not long delayed.

     "DECATUR, ALA.--Our next active service was at Decatur,
     Alabama. Hood, with his veteran army that had fought Sherman
     so gallantly from Chattanooga to Atlanta, finding that his
     great antagonest had started southward and seaward, struck
     out boldly himself for Nashville. Oct. 27th I reported to
     General R. S. Granger, commanding at Decatur. His little
     force was closely besieged by Hood's army, whose right
     rested on the Tennessee river below the town, and whose left
     extended far beyond our lines, on the other side of the
     town. Two companies of my regiment were stationed on the
     opposite side of the river from Hood's right, and kept up an
     annoying musketry fire. Lieutenant Gillett, of Company G,
     was mortally wounded by a cannon ball, and some of the
     enlisted men were hurt. One private soldier in Company B,
     who had taken position in a tree as sharpshooter, had his
     right arm broken by a ball. Captain Romeyn said to him, 'You
     would better come down from there, go to the rear, and find
     the surgeon.' 'Oh no, Captain!' he replied, 'I can fire with
     my left arm,' and so he did.

     "Another soldier of Company B, was walking along the road,
     when hearing an approaching cannon ball, he dropped flat
     upon the ground, and was almost instantly well nigh covered
     with the dirt plowed up by it, as it struck the ground near
     by. Captain Romeyn, who witnessed the incident, and who was
     greatly amused by the fellow's trepidation, asked him if he
     was frightened? His reply was, 'Fore God, Captain, I thought
     I was a dead man, sure!'

     "Friday, Oct. 28th, 1864, at twelve o'clock, at the head of
     355 men, in obedience to orders from General Granger, I
     charged and took a battery, with a loss of sixty officers
     and men killed and wounded. After capturing the battery, and
     spiking the guns, which we were unable to remove, we retired
     to our former place in the line of defense. The conduct of
     the men on this occasion was most admirable, and drew forth
     high praise from Generals Granger and Thomas.

     "Hood, having decided to push on to Nashville without
     assaulting Decatur, withdrew. As soon as I missed his troops
     from my front, I notified the General commanding, and was
     ordered to pursue, with the view of finding where he was.
     About ten o'clock the next morning, my skirmishers came up
     with his rear guard, which opened upon us a brisk infantry
     fire. Lieutenant Woodworth, standing at my side, fell dead,
     pierced through the face. General Granger ordered me to
     retire inside of the works, and the regiment, although
     exposed to a sharp fire, came off in splendid order. As we
     marched inside the works, the white soldiers, who had
     watched the manoeuvre, gave us three rousing cheers. I
     have heard the Pope's famous choir at St. Peters, and the
     great organ at Freibourg, but the music was not so sweet as
     the hearty plaudits of our brave comrades.

     "As indicating the change in public sentiment relative to
     colored soldiers, it may be mentioned that the
     Lieutenant-Colonel commanding the 68th Indiana Volunteer
     Infantry, requested me as a personal favor to ask for the
     assignment of his regiment to my command, giving as a reason
     that his men would rather fight along side of the 14th
     Colored than with any white regiment. He was ordered to
     report to me.

     "After Hood had gone, and after our journey of 244 miles, we
     returned to Chattanooga, but not to remain.

     "NASHVILLE, TENN.--November 29, 1864, in command of the
     14th, 16th and 44th Regiments U. S. C. I., I embarked on a
     railroad train at Chattanooga for Nashville. On December
     1st, with the 16th and most of the 14th, I reached my
     destination, and was assigned to a place on the extreme left
     of General Thomas' army then concentrating for the defence
     of Nashville against Hood's threatened attack.

     "The train that contained the 44th colored regiment, and two
     companies of the 14th, under command of Colonel Johnson, was
     delayed near Murfreesboro until Dec. 2nd, when it started
     for Nashville. But when crossing a bridge not far from the
     city, its progress was suddenly checked by a cross-fire of
     cannon belonging to Forest's command. I had become very
     anxious over the delay in the arrival of these troops, and
     when I heard the roar of cannon thought it must be aimed at
     them. I never shall forget the intensity of my suffering, as
     hour after hour passed by bringing me no tidings. Were they
     all captured? Had they been massacred? Who could answer? No
     one. What was to be done? Nothing. I could only wait and
     suffer.

     "The next day Colonel Johnson reached Nashville, reporting
     that when stopped, he and his men were forced, under heavy
     fire, to abandon the train, clamber down from the bridge,
     and run to a blockhouse near by, which had been erected for
     the defence of the bridge, and was still in possession of
     the Union soldiers. After maintaining a stubborn fight until
     far into the night, he withdrew his troops, and making a
     detour to the east came into our lines, having lost in
     killed, wounded and missing, two officers and eighty men of
     the 44th, and twenty-five men of the 14th.

     "Just as Captain C. W. Baker, the senior officer of the
     14th, was leaving the car, a piece of shell carried off the
     top of his cap, thus adding immensely to its value--as a
     souvenir. Some of the soldiers who escaped lost everything
     except the clothes they had on, including knapsacks,
     blankets and arms. In some cases they lay in the water
     hiding for hours, until they could escape their pursuers.

     "Soon after taking our position in line at Nashville, we
     were closely besieged by Hood's army; and thus we lay facing
     each other for two weeks. Hood had suffered so terribly by
     his defeat under Schofield, at Franklin, that he was in no
     mood to assault us in our works, and Thomas needed more time
     to concentrate and reorganize his army, before he could
     safely take the offensive. That fortnight interval was
     memorable indeed. Hood's army was desperate. It had been
     thwarted by Sherman, and thus far baffled by Thomas, and
     Hood felt that he must strike a bold blow to compensate for
     the dreadful loss of prestige occasioned by Sherman's march
     to the sea. His men were scantily clothed and poorly fed; if
     he could gain Nashville, our great depot of supplies, he
     could furnish his troops with abundance of food, clothing
     and war material; encourage the confederacy, terrify the
     people of the North, regain a vast territory taken from the
     South at such great cost to us, recruit his army from
     Kentucky, and perhaps invade the North.

     "Thomas well knew the gravity of the situation, and was
     unwilling to hazard all by a premature battle. I think that
     neither he nor any of his army ever doubted the issue of the
     battle when it should come, whichever force should take the
     initiative.

     "The authorities at Washington grew restive, and the people
     at the North nervous. Thomas was ordered to fight, Logan was
     dispatched to relieve him if he did not, and Grant himself
     started West to take command. Thomas was too good a soldier
     to be forced to offer battle, until he was sure of victory.
     He knew that time was his best ally, every day adding to his
     strength and weakening his enemy. In the meantime the
     weather became intensely cold, and a heavy sleet covered the
     ground, rendering it almost impossible for either army to
     move at all. For a few days our sufferings were quite
     severe. We had only shelter tents for the men, with very
     little fuel, and many of those who had lost their blankets
     keenly felt their need.

     "On December 5th, before the storm, by order of General
     Steadman, I made a little reconnoissance, capturing, with
     slight loss, Lieutenant Gardner and six men, from the 5th
     Mississippi Regiment. December 7th we made another, in
     which Colonel Johnson and three or four men were wounded. On
     one of these occasions, while my men were advancing in face
     of a sharp fire, a rabbit started up in front of them. With
     shouts of laughter, several of them gave chase, showing that
     even battle could not obliterate the negro's love of sport.

     "But the great day drew near. The weather grew warmer; the
     ice gave way. Thomas was ready, and calling together his
     chiefs, laid before them his plan of battle.

     "About nine o'clock at night December 14th, 1864, I was
     summoned to General Steadman's headquarters. He told me what
     the plan of battle was, and said he wished me to open the
     fight by making a vigorous assault upon Hood's right flank.
     This, he explained, was to be a feint, intended to betray
     Hood into the belief that it was the real attack, and to
     lead him to support his right by weakening his left, where
     Thomas intended assaulting him in very deed. The General
     gave me the 14th United States Colored Infantry, under
     Colonel H. C. Corbin; the 17th U. S. C. I., under the
     gallant Colonel W. R. Shafter; a detachment of the 18th U.
     S. C. I., under Major L. D. Joy; the 44th U. S. C. I., under
     Colonel L. Johnson; a provisional brigade of white troops
     under Colonel C. H. Grosvenor, and a section of Artillery,
     under Captain Osburn, of the 20th Indiana Battery.

     "The largest force I had ever handled was two regiments, and
     as I rather wanted to open the battle in proper style, I
     asked General Steadman what suggestion he had to make. He
     replied: 'Colonel, to-morrow morning at daylight I want you
     to open the battle.' 'All right, General, do you not think
     it would be a good plan for me to--', and I outlined a
     little plan of attack. With a twinkle in his kindly eye, he
     replied: 'To-morrow morning, Colonel, just as soon as you
     can see how to put your troops in motion, I wish you to
     begin the fight.' 'All right, General, good night.' With
     these explicit instructions, I left his headquarters,
     returned to camp, and gave the requisite orders for the
     soldiers to have an early breakfast, and be ready for
     serious work at daybreak. Then taking Adjutant Clelland I
     reconnoitered the enemy's position, tracing the line of his
     camp fires, and decided on my plan of assault.

     "The morning dawned with a dense fog, which held us in check
     for some time after we were ready to march. During our stay
     in Nashville, I was the guest of Major W. B. Lewis, through
     whose yard ran our line. He had been a warm personal friend
     of Andrew Jackson, occupying a place in the Treasury
     Department during his administration. He gave me the room
     formerly occupied by the hero of New Orleans, and
     entertained me with many anecdotes of him. I remember in
     particular one which I especially appreciated, because of
     the scarcity of fuel in our own camp. At one time General
     Jackson ordered certain troops to rendezvous for a few days
     at Nashville. Major Lewis, acting as Quartermaster, laid in
     a supply of several hundred cords of wood, which he supposed
     would be ample to last during their entire stay in the city.
     The troops arrived on a 'raw and gusty day,' and being
     accustomed to comfortable fires at home, they burned up
     every stick the first night, to the quartermaster's great
     consternation.

     "To return: On the morning of December 15th, Major Lewis
     said he would have a servant bring me my breakfast, which
     was not ready, however, when I started. The boy, with an eye
     to safety, followed me afar off, so far that he only reached
     me, I think, about two o'clock in the afternoon. But I
     really believe the delay, improved the flavor of the
     breakfast.

     "As soon as the fog lifted, the battle began in good
     earnest. Hood mistook my assault for an attack in force upon
     his right flank, and weakening his left in order to meet it,
     gave the coveted opportunity to Thomas, who improved it by
     assailing Hood's left flank, doubling it up, and capturing a
     large number of prisoners.

     "Thus the first day's fight wore away. It had been for us a
     severe but glorious day. Over three hundred of my command
     had fallen, but everywhere our army was successful. Victory
     perched upon our banners. Hood had stubbornly resisted, but
     had been gallantly driven back with severe loss. The left
     had done its duty. General Steadman congratulated us, saying
     his only fear had been that we might fight too hard. We had
     done all he desired, and more. Colored soldiers had again
     fought side by side with white troops; they had mingled
     together in the charge; they had supported each other; they
     had assisted each other from the field when wounded, and
     they lay side by side in death. The survivors rejoiced
     together over a hard fought field, won by a common valor.
     All who witnessed their conduct, gave them equal praise. The
     day that we had longed to see had come and gone, and the sun
     went down upon a record of coolness, bravery, manliness,
     never to be unmade. A new chapter in the history of liberty
     had been written. It had been shown that, marching under a
     flag of freedom, animated by a love of liberty, even the
     slave becomes a man and a hero.

     "At one time during the day, while the battle was in
     progress, I sat in an exposed place on a piece of ground
     sloping down toward the enemy, and being the only horseman
     on that part of the field, soon became a target for the
     balls that whistled and sang their threatening songs as they
     hurried by. At length a shot aimed at me struck my horse in
     the face, just above the nostril, and passing up under the
     skin emerged near the eye, doing the horse only temporary
     harm, and letting me off scot-free, much to my satisfaction,
     as may be supposed. Captain Baker, lying on the ground near
     by, heard the thud of the ball as it struck the horse, and
     seeing me suddenly dismount, cried out, 'the Colonel is
     shot,' and sprang to my side, glad enough to find that the
     poor horse's face had been a shield to save my life. I was
     sorry that the animal could not appreciate the gratitude I
     felt to it for my deliverance.

     "During that night Hood withdrew his army some two miles,
     and took up a new line along the crest of some low hills,
     which he strongly fortified with some improvised breast
     works and abatis. Soon after our early breakfast, we moved
     forward over the intervening space. My position was still
     on the extreme left of our line, and I was especially
     charged to look well to our flank, to avoid surprise.

     "The 2nd Colored Brigade, under Colonel Thompson, of the
     12th U. S. C. I., was on my right, and participated in the
     first days' charge upon Overton's Hill, which was repulsed.
     I stood where the whole movement was in full view. It was a
     grand and terrible sight to see those men climb that hill
     over rocks and fallen trees, in the face of a murderous fire
     of cannon and musketry, only to be driven back. White and
     black mingled together in the charge, and on the retreat.

     "When the 2nd Colored Brigade retired behind my lines to
     re-form, one of the regimental color-bearers stopped in the
     open space between the two armies, where, although exposed
     to a dangerous fire, he planted his flag firmly in the
     ground, and began deliberately and coolly to return the
     enemy's fire, and, greatly to our amusement, kept up for
     some little time his independent warfare.

     "When the second and final assault was made, the right of my
     line took part. It was with breathless interest I watched
     that noble army climb the hill with a steady resolve which
     nothing but death itself could check. When at length the
     assaulting column sprang upon the earthworks, and the enemy
     seeing that further resistance was madness, gave way and
     began a precipitous retreat, our hearts swelled as only the
     hearts of soldiers can, and scarcely stopping to cheer or to
     await orders, we pushed forward and joined in the pursuit,
     until the darkness and the rain forced a halt.

     "The battle of Nashville did not compare in numbers engaged,
     in severity of fighting, or in the losses sustained, with
     some other Western battles. But in the issues at stake, the
     magnificent generalship of Thomas, the completeness of our
     triumph, and the immediate and far-reaching consequences, it
     was unique, and deservedly ranks along with Gettysburg, as
     one of the decisive battles of the war.

     "When General Thomas rode over the battle-field and saw the
     bodies of colored men side by side with the foremost, on the
     very works of the enemy, he turned to his staff, saying:
     'Gentlemen, the question is settled; negroes will fight.' He
     did me the honor to recommend me for promotion, and told me
     that he intended to give me the best brigade that he could
     form. This he afterward did.

     "After the great victory, we joined in the chase after the
     fleeing foe. Hood's army was whipped, demoralized, and
     pretty badly scattered. A good many stragglers were picked
     up. A story circulated to this effect: Some of our boys on
     making a sharp turn in the road, came upon a forlorn
     Southern soldier, who had lost his arms, thrown away his
     accoutrements, and was sitting on a log by the roadside,
     waiting to give himself up. He was saluted with, 'Well,
     Johnny, how goes it?' 'Well, Yank, I'll tell ye; I confess
     I'm horribly whipped, and badly demoralized, but blamed if
     I'm scattered!'

     "After we had passed along through Franklin, we had orders
     to turn about and return to that city. I was riding at the
     head of the column, followed by my own regiment. The men
     were swinging along 'arms at will,' when they spied General
     Thomas and staff approaching. Without orders they brought
     their arms to 'right shoulder shift,' took the step, and
     striking up their favorite tune of 'John Brown,' whistled it
     with admirable effect while passing the General, greatly to
     his amusement.

     "We had a very memorable march from Franklin to
     Murfreesboro, over miserable dirt roads. About December 19th
     or 20th, we were on the march at an early hour, but the rain
     was there before us, and stuck by us closer than a brother.
     We were drenched through and through, and few had a dry
     thread. We waded streams of water nearly waist deep; we
     pulled through mud that seemed to have no bottom, and where
     many a soldier left his shoes seeking for it. The open woods
     pasture where we went into camp that night, was surrounded
     with a high fence made of cedar rails. That fence was left
     standing, and was not touched--until--well, I do believe
     that the owner's bitterness at his loss was fully balanced
     by the comfort and good cheer which those magnificent rail
     fires afforded us that December night. They did seem
     providentially provided for us.

     "During the night the weather turned cold, and when we
     resumed our march the ground was frozen and the roads were
     simply dreadful, especially for those of our men who had
     lost their shoes the day before and were now compelled to
     walk barefoot, tracking their way with blood. Such
     experiences take away something of the romance sometimes
     suggested to the inexperienced by the phase, 'soldiering in
     the Sunny South,' but then a touch of it is worth having for
     the light it throws over such historical scenes as those at
     Valley Forge.

     "We continued in the pursuit of Hood, as far as Huntsville,
     Ala., when he disappeared to return no more, and we were
     allowed to go back to Chattanooga, glad of an opportunity to
     rest. Distance travelled, 420 miles.

     "We had no more fighting. There were many interesting
     experiences, which, however, I will not take time to relate.
     In August, 1865, being in command of the Post at Knoxville,
     Tenn., grateful to have escaped without imprisonment,
     wounds, or even a day of severe illness, I resigned my
     commission, after forty months of service, to resume my
     studies.

     "I cannot close this paper without expressing the conviction
     that history has not yet done justice to the share borne by
     colored soldiers in the war for the Union. Their conduct
     during that eventful period, has been a silent, but most
     potent factor in influencing public sentiment, shaping
     legislation, and fixing the status of colored people in
     America. If the records of their achievements could be put
     into such shape that they could be accessible to the
     thousands of colored youth in the South, they would kindle
     in their young minds an enthusiastic devotion to manhood and
     liberty."

CHAPTER IX.

THE PHALANX AT MARION, TENN.

In the winter of 1864, while Sherman was marching his army toward the sea, raiding parties
and expeditions were sent out from the several departments to intercept rebel communications,
destroy telegraph lines, railroads and stores; in nearly all of which Phalanx troops actively
participated, and shared the perils and honors of the achievements.

From Vicksburg, Miss., Brevet Brigadier-General E. D. Osband, with the Third Phalanx Regiment,
on the 27th of November captured and destroyed the Mississippi Central Railroad bridge over
the Big Black River, near Canton, also thirty miles of the railroad, with two locomotives and
a large amount of stores.

In the meantime, General Breckenridge, with a large confederate force, attacked the Federals
under General Gillem, near Morristown, Tenn., captured the artillery, with several hundred
men, and drove the remainder of Gillem's troops into Knoxville. Breckenridge soon retired,
however, pursued by General Ammen's forces. On the 12th of December, General Stoneman having
concentrated the commands of Generals Burbridge and Gillem, near Bean Station, Tenn., started
in pursuit of Breckenridge intending to drive him into Virginia and to destroy the railroad
and Salt Works at Saltville, West Virginia. General Burbridge's command was principally composed
of Kentucky troops, three brigades, numbering about five thousand men, all mounted. The 6th
Phalanx Cavalry was attached to the 3rd brigade, which Colonel Jas. F. Wade, of the 6th, commanded.
Gillem's defeat rather inspired the men in the new column, and they dashed forward with a determination
to annihilate the enemy. Four days after leaving Bean Station, the confederates were overtaken
at Marion, General Vaughn being in command, and were routed, the Federals capturing all their
guns, trains and a number of prisoners. Vaughn fell back to Wytheville, pursued by the Federals,
who captured and destroyed the town, with its stores and supplies and the extensive lead mines.

Having accomplished their mission, the Federals about faced for Marion, where they met with
a large force of confederates under Breckenridge, including the garrison of Saltville. Now
came the decisive struggle for the Salt Works between the two forces. The Federals had been
enjoying their signal victory, which they now attempted to enhance by pressing the enemy, who
had crossed a bridge and there taken up a position. During the night an advance regiment succeeded
in crossing the bridge, after re-laying the planks which the confederates had torn up, but
they were driven back, and there remained till the next morning. The 6th Phalanx was assigned
its usual position, and was held in reserve. The battle opened in the morning, and continued
with varying success during the day. Late in the afternoon General Stoneman found his troops
badly beaten, and unable to extricate themselves from the confederate coil; they were not the
"Old Guard," and the question with them was not "victory or death," but surrender or death.
Nor was this long a question. General Stoneman ordered up the 6th Phalanx, dividing them into
three columns, placing himself at the head of one, and giving one each to Colonel Wade, (their
valiant colonel), and his chief of staff, General Brisbin. The regiment dashed into the fight
for the rescue of the pro-slavery Kentuckians and haughty Tennesseeians, who were now nearly
annihilated. The historian of this campaign, General Brisbin, who but a day or two previous
to this battle had attempted to shoot one of the brave black boys of the 6th for retaliating
for the murder of one of his comrades by shooting a confederate prisoner, thus writes, twenty-two
years afterwards, about the battle and the conduct of the 6th:

     "Early in the day General Stoneman had sent General Gillem
     off to the right with orders to get in Breckenridge's rear
     and if possible cut him off from the salt works. It was
     believed the Kentucky troops could handle Breckenridge until
     Gillem could strike in the rear, but the action in front
     about noon became terrific and Gillem was recalled to aid
     Burbridge. Our right flank had been driven back and our
     extreme left was almost at right angles with the original
     position held early in the morning. To add to our
     misfortunes, a party of Confederate cavalry had got in our
     rear and captured some of our pack train. The packers had at
     one time become demoralized and fell back almost into the
     hands of the Confederates operating in our rear. General
     Burbridge saw the movement, and drawing his revolver placed
     himself in front of the leading packs and ordered them back,
     but the crazy men kept on until the General wounded the man
     who was leading them off, and with the aid of some officers
     who used their sabres freely, the packs were forced back
     into the timber close to our lines and compelled to stay
     there. Thus over five hundred packs and animals were saved
     to the army by the prompt action of the General and his
     aids.

     "At 3:30 o'clock the situation was critical in the extreme.
     Colonel Boyle had been killed in leading a charge and his
     regiment repulsed. The Twelfth Ohio Cavalry had promptly
     come to Boyle's support and checked the confederates, who
     were coming into our centre. The hospital in our rear, where
     our sick were, had been charged, and for a short time was in
     the hands of the enemy. Burbridge and Stoneman had their
     headquarters on a little knoll near the centre of our line,
     where they could see the fighting. The Confederate right, in
     swinging around, had covered this hill and it was no longer
     tenable. A lieutenant, in reporting to General Burbridge on
     this knoll, had been shot by a Confederate rifleman through
     the head and fell dead at the General's feet. Orderlies,
     horses and men were being shot down, and I begged General
     Burbridge to retire. He asked me if there were no more
     troops we could bring up and put into action. I told him all
     we had left was the Sixth United States Colored Cavalry and
     the horse-holders. He said:

     "'Well, go and bring up the negroes and tell everybody to
     tie the horses as well as they can. We might as well lose
     them as to be whipped, when we will lose them anyway.'

     "I made haste to bring up the Sixth Colored and all the
     horse-holders I could get. The Sixth Colored was a fine
     regiment, but few had faith in the fighting qualities of the
     negroes. General Burbridge divided them into three columns,
     and taking one himself gave the other two to General Wade
     and myself. Wade had the right, Burbridge the left and I was
     in the centre. Wade got off first and sailed in in gallant
     style. Burbridge piled his overcoat on the ground, and
     drawing his sword led his column forward. The men were all
     on foot and most of the officers. But few were mounted. It
     was unpleasant riding under fire where so many were on foot.
     Wade's horse was soon shot, but he kept on with his men,
     leading on foot. Looking to the left I saw Burbridge
     surrounded by a black crowd of men, his form towering above
     them and his sword pointing to the enemy. Wade was first to
     strike the Confederate line. They fired and fired, but the
     darkies kept straight on, closing for a hand-to-hand fight.
     Then the cry was raised along the Confederate lines that the
     negroes were killing the wounded. Wade went through the
     Confederate line like an iron wedge, and it broke and fled.
     Burbridge hit hard, but the insistence was less stubborn
     than in Wade's front. Of my own part in the action I prefer
     not to write. Suffice it to say that never did soldiers do
     better on any battle-field than the black men I led that
     day.

     "When their guns were empty they clubbed them, and I saw one
     negro fighting with a gun barrel, swinging it about his head
     like a club, and going straight for the enemy. He did not
     hit anybody for nobody waited to be hit, but some of the
     Confederates jumped fully fifteen feet down the opposite
     side of that hill to get out of the way of the negroes, and
     I would have jumped too, probably, if I had been on their
     side, for I never yet saw anything in battle so terrible as
     an infuriated negro.

     "Gillem returned just as night was putting an end to the
     fighting and in the approaching darkness we mistook his
     column for a new column of the enemy coming in on our right
     and rear. Burbridge hurried back with his victorious negroes
     and was about to advance with the Twelfth Ohio Cavalry and
     Eleventh Michigan, when the glad news came that the supposed
     Confederates were Gillem's column returning to our support.

     "During the night Breckenridge retreated in the direction of
     the salt works, but Colonel Buckley, returning from the
     direction of the lead mines with his brigade, and having got
     in Breckenridge's rear at Seven Mile Ford, charged his
     advance, capturing ten prisoners. Breckenridge, no doubt
     thinking he had been outflanked and was about to be enclosed
     between two columns, abandoned all idea of going to the salt
     works and put back in confusion to Marion, where he took the
     North Carolina road and fled over the mountains. Colonel
     Bentley, with his Twelfth Ohio, was sent up with
     Breckenridge's rear. The Confederates felled trees across
     the road to retard Bentley's advance, but he cleared them
     out and he and his gallant regiment hammered Breckenridge's
     rear all the way into North Carolina."

The road to the Salt Works was thus opened and their destruction accomplished by the bravery
and matchless valor of the gallant Sixth. Many of the regiment forfeited their lives in rescuing
the force from defeat, and securing a victory; those who survived the terrible struggle no
longer had opprobrious epithets hurled at them, but modestly received the just encomiums that
were showered upon them by the white troops, who, amid the huzzas of victory, greeted them
with loud shouts of "Comrades!"

General Brisbin, continuing, says:

     "There were many instances of personal bravery, but I shall
     only mention one. A negro soldier had got a stump quite
     close to the Confederate line, and despite all efforts to
     dislodge him, there he stuck, picking off their men. The
     Confederates charged the stump, but the Federal line
     observing it concentrated their fire on the advancing men
     and drove them back. Then there were long and loud cheers
     for the brave darkey, who stuck to his stump and fired away
     with a regularity that was wonderful. His stump was riddled
     with bullets, but he stuck to it, although he was at times
     nearer the Confederate lines than our own."

CHAPTER X.

THE BLACK FLAG.

FORT PILLOW--EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS, ETC.

It was not long after each army received its quota of Phalanx soldiers, before the white troops
began regarding them much as Napoleon's troops did the Imperial Guard, their main support.
When a regiment of the Phalanx went into a fight, every white soldier knew what was meant,
for the black troops took no ordinary part in a battle. Where the conflict was hottest; where
danger was most imminent, there the Phalanx went; and when victory poised, as it often did,
between the contending sides, the weight of the Phalanx was frequently thrown into the balancing
scales; if some strong work or dangerous battery had to be taken, whether with the bayonet
alone or hand grenade or sabre, the Phalanx was likely to be in the charging column, or formed
a part of the storming brigade.

The confederates were no cowards; braver men never bit cartridge or fired a gun, and when they
were to meet "their slaves," as they believed, in revolt, why, of course, honor forbade them
to ask or give quarter. This fact was known to all, for, as yet, though hundreds had been captured,
none had been found on parole, or among the exchanged prisoners. General Grant's attention
was called to this immediately after the fight at Milliken's Bend, where the officers of the
Phalanx, as well as soldiers, had been captured and hung. Grant wrote Gen. Taylor, commanding
the confederate forces in Louisiana, as follows:

     "I feel no inclination to retaliate for offences of
     irresponsible persons, but, if it is the policy of any
     general intrusted with the command of troops, to show no
     quarter, or to punish with death, prisoners taken in battle,
     I will accept the issue. It may be you propose a different
     line of policy to black troops, and officers commanding
     them, to that practiced toward white troops. If so, I can
     assure you that these colored troops are regularly mustered
     into the service of the United States. The government, and
     all officers under the government, are bound to give the
     same protection to these troops that they do to any other
     troops."

General Taylor replied that he would punish all such acts, "disgraceful alike to humanity and
the reputation of soldiers," but declared that officers of the "Confederate Army" were required
to turn over to the civil authorities, to be dealt with according to the laws of the State
wherein such were captured, all negroes taken in arms.

As early as December, 1862, incensed by General Butler's administration at New Orleans in the
arming of negroes, Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate Government, issued the following
proclamation:

     "FIRST.--That all commissioned officers in the command of
     said Benjamin F. Butler be declared not entitled to be
     considered as soldiers engaged in honorable warfare, but as
     robbers and criminals, deserving death; and that they, and
     each of them, be, whenever captured, reserved for execution.

     "SECOND.--That the private soldiers and non-commissioned
     officers in the army of said Benj. F. Butler, be considered
     as only instruments used for the commission of crimes,
     perpetrated by his orders, and not as free agents; that
     they, therefore, be treated when captured as prisoners of
     war, with kindness and humanity, and be sent home on the
     usual parole; that they will in no manner aid or serve the
     United States in any capacity during the continuance of war,
     unless duly exchanged.

     "THIRD.--That all negro slaves captured in arms be at once
     delivered over to the executive authorities, of the
     respective States to which they belong, and to be dealt with
     according to the laws of said States.

     "FOURTH.--That the like orders be executed in all cases with
     respect to all commissioned officers of the United States
     when found serving in company with said slaves in
     insurrection against the authorities of the different States
     of this Confederacy.

         "Signed and sealed at Richmond, Dec. 23, 1862.

                                  "JEFFERSON DAVIS."

This Proclamation was the hoisting of the black flag against the Phalanx, by which Mr. Davis
expected to bring about a war of extermination against the negro soldiers.[28]

In his third annual message to the Confederate Congress, Mr. Davis said:

     "We may well leave it to the instincts of that common
     humanity which a beneficient creator has implanted in the
     breasts of our fellow men of all countries to pass judgment
     on a measure by which several millions of human beings of an
     inferior race--peaceful and contented laborers in their
     sphere--are doomed to extermination, while at the same time
     they are encouraged to a general assassination of their
     masters by the insiduous recommendation to abstain from
     violence unless in necessary defence. Our own detestation of
     those who have attempted the most execrable measures
     recorded in the history of guilty man is tempered by
     profound contempt for the impotent rage which it discloses.
     So far as regards the action of this government on such
     criminals as may attempt its execution, I confine myself to
     informing you that I shall--unless in your wisdom you deem
     some other course expedient--deliver to the several State
     authorities all commissioned officers of the United States
     that may hereafter be captured by our forces in any of the
     States embraced in the Proclamation, that they may be dealt
     with in accordance with the laws of those States providing
     for the punishment of criminals engaged in exciting servile
     insurrection. The enlisted soldiers I shall continue to
     treat as unwilling instruments in the commission of these
     crimes, and shall direct their discharge and return to their
     homes on the proper and usual parole."

The confederate Congress soon took up the subject, and after a protracted consideration passed
the following:

     "Resolved, By the Congress of the Confederate States of
     America, in response to the message of the President,
     transmitted to Congress at the commencement of the present
     session. That, in the opinion of Congress, the commissioned
     officers of the enemy ought not to be delivered to the
     authorities of the respective States, as suggested in the
     said message, but all captives taken by the confederate
     forces, ought to be dealt with and disposed of by the
     Confederate Government.

     "SEC. 2.--That in the judgment of Congress, the
     Proclamations of the President of the United States, dated
     respectively September 22nd, 1862, and January 1st, 1863,
     and other measures of the Government of the United States,
     and of its authorities, commanders and forces, designed or
     intended to emancipate slaves in the Confederate States, or
     to abduct such slaves, or to incite them to insurrection, or
     to employ negroes in war against the Confederate States, or
     to overthrow the institution of African slavery and bring on
     a servile war in these States, would, if successful, produce
     atrocious consequences, and they are inconsistent with the
     spirit of those usages which, in modern warfare, prevail
     among the civilized nations; they may therefore be lawfully
     suppressed by retaliation.

     "SEC. 3.--That in every case wherein, during the war, any
     violation of the laws and usages of war among civilized
     nations shall be, or has been done and perpetrated by those
     acting under the authority of the United States, on the
     persons or property of citizens of the Confederate States,
     or of those under the protection or in the land or naval
     service of the Confederate States, or of any State of the
     Confederacy, the President of the Confederate States is
     hereby authorized to cause full and ample retaliation to be
     made for every such violation, in such manner and to such
     extent as he may think proper.

     "SEC. 4.--That every white person, being a commissioned
     officer, or acting as such, who during the present war shall
     command negroes or mulattoes in arms against the Confederate
     States, or who shall arm, train, organize or prepare negroes
     or mulattoes for military service against the Confederate
     States, or who shall voluntarily use negroes or mulattoes in
     any military enterprise, attack or conflict, in such
     service, shall be deemed as inciting servile insurrection,
     and shall, if captured, be put to death, or to be otherwise
     punished at the discretion of the court.

     "SEC. 5.--Every person, being a commissioned officer, or
     acting as such in the service of the enemy, who shall during
     the present war, excite, attempt to excite, or cause to be
     excited a servile insurrection, or who shall incite, or
     cause to be incited a slave to rebel, shall, if captured, be
     put to death, or otherwise punished at the discretion of the
     court.

     "SEC. 6.--Every person charged with an offence punishable
     under the preceeding resolutions shall, during the present
     war, be tried before the military court, attached to the
     army or corps by the troops of which he shall have been
     captured, or by such other military court as the President
     may direct, and in such manner and under such regulations as
     the President shall prescribe; and after conviction, the
     President may commute the punishment in such manner and on
     such terms as he may deem proper.

     "SEC. 7.--All negroes and mulattoes who shall be engaged in
     war, or be taken in arms against the Confederate States, or
     shall give aid or comfort to the enemies of the Confederate
     States, shall, where captured in the Confederate States, be
     delivered to authorities of the State or States in which
     they shall be captured, to be dealt with according to such
     present or future laws of such State or States."

In March, 1863, this same Confederate Congress enacted the following order to regulate the
impressment of negroes for army purposes:

     "SEC. 9.--Where slaves are impressed by the Confederate
     Government, to labor on fortifications, or other public
     works, the impressment shall be made by said Government
     according to the rules and regulations provided in the laws
     of the States wherein they are impressed; and, in the
     absence of such law, in accordance with such rules and
     regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this
     act, as the Secretary of War shall from time to time
     prescribe; Provided, That no impressment of slaves shall
     be made, when they can be hired or procured by the owner or
     agent.

     "SEC. 10.--That, previous to the 1st day of December next,
     no slave laboring on a farm or plantation, exclusively
     devoted to the production of grain and provisions, shall be
     taken for the public use, without the consent of the owner,
     except in case of urgent necessity."

Thus it is apparent that while the Confederate Government was holding aloft the black flag,
even against the Northern Phalanx regiments composed of men who were never slaves, it was at
the same time engaged in enrolling and conscripting slaves to work on fortifications and in
trenches, in support of their rebellion against the United States, and at a period when negro
troops were not accepted in the army of the United States.

Soon after the admission of negroes into the Union army, it was reported to Secretary Stanton
that three negro soldiers, captured with the gunboat "Isaac Smith," on Stone river, were placed
in close confinement, whereupon he ordered three confederate prisoners belonging to South Carolina
to be placed in close confinement, and informed the Confederate Government of the action. The
Richmond Examiner becoming cognizant of this said:

     "It is not merely the pretension of a regular Government
     affecting to deal with 'rebels,' but it is a deadly stab
     which they are aiming at our institutions themselves;
     because they know that, if we were insane enough to yield
     this point, to treat black men as the equals of white, and
     insurgent slaves as equivalent to our brave white soldiers,
     the very foundation of slavery would be fatally wounded."

Several black soldiers were captured in an engagement before Charleston, and when it came to
an exchange of prisoners, though an immediate exchange of all captured in the engagement had
been agreed upon, the confederates would not exchange the negro troops. To this the President's
attention was called, whereupon he issued the following order:

     "EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, July 30th, 1863.

     "It is the duty of every government to give protection to
     its citizens, of whatever color, class, or condition, and
     especially to those who are duly organized as soldiers in
     the public service. The law of nations and the usages and
     customs of war, as carried on by civilized powers, permit no
     distinction as to color in the treatment of prisoners of
     war, as public enemies. To sell or enslave any captured
     person, on account of his color, and for no offense against
     the laws of war, is a relapse into barbarism, and a crime
     against the civilization of the age. The government of the
     United States will give the same protection to all its
     soldiers; and if the enemy shall enslave or sell any one
     because of his color, the offense shall be punished by
     retaliation upon the enemy's prisoners in our possession.
     It is therefore ordered that for every soldier of the United
     States killed in violation of the laws of war, a rebel
     soldier shall be executed, and for every one enslaved by the
     enemy or sold into slavery, a rebel soldier shall be placed
     at hard labor on public works, and continued at such labor
     until the other shall be released and receive the treatment
     due to a prisoner of war.

                                  "ABRAHAM LINCOLN,

     "By order of the Secretary of War.

                            "E. D. TOWNSEND, Ass't. Adjt.-General."

However, this order did not prevent the carrying out of the intentions of the confederate President
and Congress.

The saddest and blackest chapter of the history of the war of the Rebellion, is that which
relates to the treatment of Union prisoners in the rebel prison pens, at Macon, Ga., Belle
Island, Castle Thunder, Pemberton, Libbey, at and near Richmond and Danville, Va., Cahawba,
Ala., Salisbury, N. C., Tyler, Texas, Florida, Columbia, S. C., Millen and Andersonville, Ga.
It is not the purpose to attempt a general description of these modern charnel houses, or to
enter into a detailed statement of the treatment of the Union soldiers who were unfortunate
enough to escape death upon the battle-field and then fall captive to the confederates. When
we consider the fact that the white men who were engaged in the war upon both sides, belonged
to one nation, and were Americans, many of whom had been educated at the same schools, and
many--very many--of them members of the same religious denominations, and church; not a few
springing from the same stock and loins, the atrocities committed by the confederates against
the Union soldiers, while in their custody as prisoners of war, makes their deeds more shocking
and inhuman than if the contestants had been of a different nationality.

The English soldiers who lashed the Sepoys to the mouths of their cannon, and then fired the
pieces, thus cruelly murdering the captured rebels, offered the plea, in mitigation of their
crime, and as an excuse for violating the rules of war, that their subjects were not of a civilized
nation, and did not themselves adhere to the laws governing civilized nations at war with each
other. But no such plea can be entered in the case of the confederates, who starved, shot and
murdered 80,000 of their brethren in prison pens, white prisoners of war. If such treatment
was meted to those of their own color and race, as is related by an investigating committee
of Senators, what must have been the treatment of those of another race,--whom they had held
in slavery, and whom they regarded the same as sheep and horses, to be bought and sold at will,--when
captured in battle, fighting against them for the Union and their own freedom?

The report of the Congressional Committee furnishes ample proof of the barbarities:

         38TH CONGRESS,    }            {REP. COM.
         1st Session.    }            {No. 68.

                    "IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.

     "Report of the Joint Committee on the Conduct and
     Expenditures of the War.

     "On the 4th inst., your committee received a communication
     of that date from the Secretary of War, enclosing the report
     of Colonel Hoffman, commissary general of prisoners, dated
     May 3, calling the attention of the committee to the
     condition of returned Union prisoners, with the request that
     the committee would immediately proceed to Annapolis and
     examine with their own eyes the condition of those who have
     been returned from rebel captivity. The committee resolved
     that they would comply with the request of the Secretary of
     War on the first opportunity. The 5th of May was devoted by
     the committee to concluding their labors upon the
     investigation of the Fort Pillow massacre. On the 6th of
     May, however, the committee proceeded to Annapolis and
     Baltimore, and examined the condition of our returned
     soldiers, and took the testimony of several of them,
     together with the testimony of surgeons and other persons in
     attendance upon the hospitals. That testimony, with the
     communication of the Secretary of War, and the report of
     Colonel Hoffman, is herewith transmitted.

     "The evidence proves, beyond all manner of doubt, a
     determination on the part of the rebel authorities,
     deliberately and persistently practiced for a long time
     past, to subject those of our soldiers who have been so
     unfortunate as to fall in their hands to a system of
     treatment which has resulted in reducing many of those who
     have survived and been permitted to return to us in a
     condition, both physically and mentally, which no language
     we can use can adequately describe. Though nearly all the
     patients now in the Naval Academy hospital at Annapolis, and
     in the West hospital, in Baltimore, have been under the
     kindest and most intelligent treatment for about three weeks
     past, and many of them for a greater length of time, still
     they present literally the appearance of living skeletons,
     many of them being nothing but skin and bone; some of them
     are maimed for life, having been frozen while exposed to the
     inclemency of the winter season on Belle Isle, being
     compelled to lie on the bare ground, without tents or
     blankets, some of them without overcoats or even coats, with
     but little fire to mitigate the severity of the winds and
     storms to which they were exposed.

     "The testimony shows that the general practice of their
     captors was to rob them, as soon as they were taken
     prisoners, of all their money, valuables, blankets, and good
     clothing, for which they received nothing in exchange
     except, perhaps, some old worn-out rebel clothing hardly
     better than none at all. Upon their arrival at Richmond they
     have been confined, without blankets or other covering, in
     buildings without fire, or upon Belle Isle with, in many
     cases, no shelter, and in others with nothing but old
     discarded army tents, so injured by rents and holes as to
     present but little barrier to the wind and storms; on
     several occasions, the witnesses say, they have arisen in
     the morning from their resting-places upon the bare earth,
     and found several of their comrades frozen to death during
     the night, and that many others would have met the same fate
     had they not walked rapidly back and forth, during the hours
     which should have been devoted to sleep, for the purpose of
     retaining sufficient warmth to preserve life.

     "In respect to the food furnished to our men by the rebel
     authorities, the testimony proves that the ration of each
     man was totally insufficient in quantity to preserve the
     health of a child, even had it been of proper quality, which
     it was not. It consisted usually, at the most, of two small
     pieces of corn-bread, made in many instances, as the
     witnesses state, of corn and cobs ground together, and badly
     prepared and cooked, of, at times, about two ounces of meat,
     usually of poor quality, and unfit to be eaten, and
     occasionally a few black worm-eaten beans, or something of
     that kind. Many of your men were compelled to sell to their
     guards, and others, for what price they could get, such
     clothing and blankets as they were permitted to receive of
     that forwarded for their use by our government, in order to
     obtain additional food sufficient to sustain life; thus, by
     endeavoring to avoid one privation reducing themselves to
     the same destitute condition in respect to clothing and
     covering that they were in before they received any from our
     government. When they became sick and diseased in
     consequence of this exposure and privation, and were
     admitted into the hospitals, their treatment was little if
     any, improved as to food, though they, doubtless, suffered
     less from exposure to cold than before. Their food still
     remained insufficient in quantity and altogether unfit in
     quality. Their diseases and wounds did not receive the
     treatment which the commonest dictates of humanity would
     have prompted. One witness, whom your committee examined,
     who had lost all the toes of one foot from being frozen
     while on Belle Isle, states that for days at a time his
     wounds were not dressed, and they had not been dressed for
     four days when he was taken from the hospital and carried on
     the flag-of-truce boat for Fortress Monroe.

     "In reference to the condition to which our men were reduced
     by cold and hunger, your committee would call attention to
     the following extracts from the testimony. One witness
     testifies:

     "'I had no blankets until our Government sent us some.

     "'Question.--How did you sleep before you received those
     blankets?

     "'Answer.--We used to get together just as close as we
     could, and sleep spoon-fashion, so that when one turned over
     we all had to turn over.'

     "Another witness testifies:

     "'Question.--Were you hungry all the time?

     "'Answer.--Hungry! I could eat anything that came before us;
     some of the boys would get boxes from the North with meat of
     different kinds in them; and, after they had picked the meat
     off, they would throw the bones away into the spit-boxes,
     and we would pick the bones out of the spit-boxes and gnaw
     them over again.'

     "In addition to this insufficient supply of food, clothing
     and shelter, our soldiers, while prisoners, have been
     subjected to the most cruel treatment from those placed over
     them. They have been abused and shamefully treated on almost
     every opportunity. Many have been mercilessly shot and
     killed when they failed to comply with all the demands of
     their jailors, sometimes for violating rules of which they
     had not been informed. Crowded in great numbers in
     buildings, they have been fired at and killed by the
     sentinels outside when they appeared at the windows for the
     purpose of obtaining a little fresh air. One man, whose
     comrade in the service, in battle and in captivity, had been
     so fortunate as to be among those released from further
     torments, was shot dead as he was waving with his hand a
     last adieu to his friend; and other instances of equally
     unprovoked murder are disclosed by the testimony.

     "The condition of our returned soldiers as regards personal
     cleanliness, has been filthy almost beyond description.
     Their clothes have been so dirty and so covered with vermin,
     that those who received them have been compelled to destroy
     their clothing and re-clothe them with new and clean
     raiment. Their bodies and heads have been so infested with
     vermin that, in some instances, repeated washings have
     failed to remove them; and those who have received them in
     charge have been compelled to cut all the hair from their
     heads, and make applications to destroy the vermin. Some
     have been received with no clothing but shirts and drawers
     and a piece of blanket or other outside covering, entirely
     destitute of coats, hats, shoes or stockings; and the bodies
     of those better supplied with clothing have been equally
     dirty and filthy with the others, many who have been sick
     and in the hospital having had no opportunity to wash their
     bodies for weeks and months before they were released from
     captivity.

     "Your committee are unable to convey any adequate idea of
     the sad and deplorable condition of the men they saw in the
     hospitals they visited; and the testimony they have taken
     cannot convey to the reader the impressions which your
     committee there received. The persons we saw, as we were
     assured by those in charge of them, have greatly improved
     since they have been received in the hospitals. Yet they are
     now dying daily, one of them being in the very throes of
     death as your committee stood by his bed-side and witnessed
     the sad spectacle there presented. All those whom your
     committee examined stated that they have been thus reduced
     and emaciated entirely in consequence of the merciless
     treatment they received while prisoners from their enemies;
     and the physicians in charge of them, the men best fitted by
     their profession and experience to express an opinion upon
     the subject, all say that they have no doubt that the
     statements of their patients are entirely correct.

     "It will be observed from the testimony, that all the
     witnesses who testify upon that point state that the
     treatment they received while confined at Columbia, South
     Carolina, Dalton, Georgia, and other places, was far more
     humane than that they received at Richmond, where the
     authorities of the so-called confederacy were congregated,
     and where the power existed, had the inclination not been
     wanting, to reform those abuses and secure to the prisoners
     they held some treatment that would bear a public comparison
     to that accorded by our authorities to the prisoners in our
     custody. Your committee, therefore, are constrained to say
     that they can hardly avoid the conclusion, expressed by so
     many of our released soldiers, that the inhuman practices
     herein referred to are the result of a determination on the
     part of the rebel authorities to reduce our soldiers in
     their power, by privation of food and clothing, and by
     exposure, to such a condition that those who may survive
     shall never recover so as to be able to render any effective
     service in the field. And your committee accordingly ask
     that this report, with the accompanying testimony be printed
     with the report and testimony [which was accordingly done]
     in relation to the massacre of Fort Pillow, the one being,
     in their opinion, no less than the other, the result of a
     predetermined policy. As regards the assertions of some of
     the rebel newspapers, that our prisoners have received at
     their hands the same treatment that their own soldiers in
     the field have received, they are evidently but the most
     glaring and unblushing falsehoods. No one can for a moment
     be deceived by such statements, who will reflect that our
     soldiers, who, when taken prisoners, have been stout,
     healthy men, in the prime and vigor of life, yet have died
     by hundreds under the treatment they have received, although
     required to perform no duties of the camp or the march;
     while the rebel soldiers are able to make long and rapid
     marches, and to offer a stubborn resistance in the field.

     "Your committee, finding it impossible to describe in words
     the deplorable condition of these returned prisoners, have
     caused photographs to be taken of a number of them, and a
     fair sample to be lithographed and appended to their report,
     that their exact condition may be known by all who examine
     it. Some of them have since died.

     "There is one feature connected with this investigation, to
     which your committee can refer with pride and satisfaction;
     and that is the uncomplaining fortitude, the undiminished
     patriotism exhibited by our brave men under all their
     privations, even in the hour of death.

     "Your committee will close their report by quoting the
     tribute paid these men by the chaplin of the hospital at
     Annapolis, who has ministered to so many of them in their
     last moments; who has smoothed their passage to the grave by
     his kindness and attention, and who has performed the last
     sad offices over their lifeless remains. He says:

     "'There is another thing I would wish to state. All the men,
     without any exception among the thousands that have come to
     this hospital, have never in a single instance expressed a
     regret (notwithstanding the privations and sufferings they
     have endured) that they entered their country's service.
     They have been the most loyal, devoted and earnest men. Even
     on the last days of their lives they have said that all they
     hoped for was just to live and enter the ranks again and
     meet their foes. It is a most glorious record in reference
     to the devotion of our men to their country. I do not think
     their patriotism has ever been equalled in the history of
     the world.'

     "All of which is respectfully submitted.

                          "B. F. WADE, Chairman."

Also the following:

                 "OFFICE OF COMMISSARY-GENERAL OF PRISONERS,
                              WASHINGTON, D. C., May 3, 1864.

     "SIR:--I have the honor to report that, pursuant to your
     instructions of the 2nd instant, I proceeded, yesterday
     morning, to Annapolis, with a view to see that the paroled
     prisoners about to arrive there from Richmond were properly
     received and cared for.

     "The flag-of-truce boat 'New York,' under the charge of
     Major Mulford, with thirty-two officers, three hundred and
     sixty-three enlisted men, and one citizen on board, reached
     the wharf at the Naval School hospital about ten o'clock. On
     going on board, I found the officers generally in good
     health, and much cheered by their happy release from the
     rebel prisons, and by the prospect of again being with their
     friends.

     "The enlisted men who had endured so many privations at
     Belle Isle and other places were, with few exceptions, in a
     very sad plight, mentally and physically, having for months
     been exposed to all the changes of the weather, with no
     other protection than a very insufficient supply of
     worthless tents, and with an allowance of food scarcely
     sufficient to prevent starvation, even if of wholesome
     quality; but as it was made of coarsely-ground corn,
     including the husks, and probably at times the cobs, if it
     did not kill by starvation, it was sure to do it by the
     disease it created. Some of these poor fellows were wasted
     to mere skeletons, and had scarcely life enough remaining to
     appreciate that they were now in the hands of their friends,
     and among them all there were few who had not become too
     much broken down and dispirited by their many privations to
     be able to realize the happy prospect of relief from their
     sufferings which was before them. With rare exception, every
     face was sad with care and hunger; there was no brightening
     of the countenance or lighting up of the eye, to indicate a
     thought of anything beyond a painful sense of prostration of
     mind and body. Many faces showed that there was scarcely a
     ray of intelligence left.

     "Every preparation had been made for their reception in
     anticipation of the arrival of the steamer, and immediately
     upon her being made fast to the wharf the paroled men were
     landed and taken immediately to the hospital, where, after
     receiving a warm bath, they were furnished with a suitable
     supply of new clothing, and received all those other
     attentions which their sad condition demanded. Of the whole
     number, there are perhaps fifty to one hundred who, in a
     week or ten days, will be in a convalescent state, but the
     others will very slowly regain their lost health.

     "That our soldiers, when in the hands of the rebels, are
     starved to death, cannot be denied. Every return of the
     flag-of-truce boat from City Point brings us too many living
     and dying witnesses to admit of a doubt of this terrible
     fact. I am informed that the authorities at Richmond admit
     the fact, but excuse it on the plea that they give the
     prisoners the same rations they give their own men. But can
     this be so? Can an army keep the field, and be active and
     efficient, on the same fare that kills prisoners of war at a
     frightful percentage? I think not; no man can believe it;
     and while a practice so shocking to humanity is persisted in
     by the rebel authorities, I would very respectfully urge
     that retaliatory measures be at once instituted by
     subjecting the officers we now hold as prisoners of war to a
     similar treatment.

     "I took advantage of the opportunity which this visit to
     Annapolis gave me to make a hasty inspection of Camp Parole,
     and I am happy to report that I found it in every branch in
     a most commendable condition. The men all seemed to be
     cheerful and in fine health, and the police inside and out
     was excellent. Colonel Root, the commanding officer,
     deserves much credit for the very satisfactory condition to
     which he has brought his command.

     "I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient
     servant,

                                        "W. HOFFMAN,

         "Colonel 3rd Infantry, Commissary General of Prisoners.

     "HON. E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War, Washington, D. C."

This report does not refer to the treatment of the soldiers of the Phalanx who were taken by
the confederates in battle,[29] after the surrender of Fort Pillow, Lawrence and Plymouth,
and at several other places. It is inserted to enable the reader to form an opinion as to what
the negro soldier's treatment must have been. The same committee also published as a part of
their report, the testimony of a number,--mostly black, soldiers, who escaped death at Fort
Pillow; a few of their statements are given:

            38TH CONGRESS,}         {REP. COM.

     "Deposition of John Nelson in relation to the capture of
     Fort Pillow.

     "John Nelson, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith:

     "'At the time of the attack on and capture of Fort Pillow,
     April 12, 1864, I kept a hotel within the lines at Fort
     Pillow, and a short distance from the works. Soon after the
     alarm was given that an attack on the fort was imminent, I
     entered the works and tendered my services to Major Booth,
     commanding. The attack began in the morning at about 5-1/2
     o'clock, and about 1 o'clock P.M. a flag of truce
     approached. During the parley which ensued, and while the
     firing ceased on both sides, the rebels kept crowding up to
     the works on the side near Cold Creek, and also approached
     nearer on the south side, thereby gaining advantages pending
     the conference under the flag of truce. As soon as the flag
     of truce was withdrawn the attack began, and about five
     minutes after it began the rebels entered the fort. Our
     troops were soon overpowered, and broke and fled. A large
     number of the soldiers, black and white, and also a few
     citizens, myself among the number, rushed down the bluff
     toward the river. I concealed myself as well as I could in a
     position where I could distinctly see all that passed below
     the bluff, for a considerable distance up and down the
     river.

     "'A large number, at least one hundred, were hemmed in near
     the river bank by bodies of the rebels coming from both
     north and south. Most all of those thus hemmed in were
     without arms. I saw many soldiers, both white and black,
     throw up their arms in token of surrender, and call out that
     they had surrendered. The rebels would reply, 'G--d d--n
     you, why didn't you surrender before?' and shot them down
     like dogs.

     "'The rebels commenced an indiscriminate slaughter. Many
     colored soldiers sprang into the river and tried to escape
     by swimming, but these were invariably shot dead.

     "'A short distance from me, and within view, a number of our
     wounded had been placed, and near where Major Booth's body
     lay; and a small red flag indicated that at that place our
     wounded were placed. The rebels however, as they passed
     these wounded men, fired right into them and struck them
     with the butts of their muskets. The cries for mercy and
     groans which arose from the poor fellows were heart-rending.

     "'Thinking that if I should be discovered, I would be
     killed, I emerged from my hiding place, and, approaching the
     nearest rebel, I told him I was a citizen. He said, 'You are
     in bad company, G--d d--n you; out with your greenbacks, or
     I'll shoot you.' I gave him all the money I had, and under
     his convoy I went up into the fort again.

     "'When I re-entered the fort there was still some shooting
     going on. I heard a rebel officer tell a soldier not to kill
     any more of those negroes. He said that they would all be
     killed, any way, when they were tried.

     "'After I entered the fort, and after the United States flag
     had been taken down, the rebels held it up in their hands in
     the presence of their officers, and thus gave the rebels
     outside a chance to still continue their slaughter, and I
     did not notice that any rebel officer forbade the holding of
     it up. I also further state, to the best of my knowledge and
     information, that there were not less than three hundred and
     sixty negroes killed and two hundred whites. This I give to
     the best of my knowledge and belief.

                                            "JOHN NELSON.

     "Subscribed and sworn to before me this 2nd day of May, A. D. 1864.

                                            "J. D. LLOYD,

     "Capt. 11th Inf., Mo. Vols., and Ass't. Provost Mar.,
         Dist. of Memphis."

     "Henry Christian, (colored), private, company B, 6th United
     States heavy artillery, sworn and examined. By Mr. Gooch:

     'Question. Where were you raised? 'Answer. In East
     Tennessee.

     'Question. Have you been a slave? 'Answer. Yes, sir.

     'Question. Where did you enlist? 'Answer. At Corinth,
     Mississippi.

     'Question. Were you in the fight at Fort Pillow? 'Answer.
     Yes, sir.

     'Question. When were you wounded? 'Answer. A little before
     we surrendered.

     'Question. What happened to you afterwards? 'Answer.
     Nothing; I got but one shot, and dug right out over the hill
     to the river, and never was bothered any more.

     'Did you see any men shot after the place was taken?
     'Answer. Yes, sir.

     'Question. Where? 'Answer. Down to the river.

     'Question. How many? 'Answer. A good many; I don't know how
     many.

     'Question. By whom were they shot? 'Answer. By secesh
     soldiers; secesh officers shot some up on the hill.

     'Question. Did you see those on the hill shot by the
     officers? 'Answer. I saw two of them shot.

     'Question. What officers were they? 'Answer. I don't know
     whether he was a lieutenant or captain.

     'Question. Did the men who were shot after they had
     surrendered have arms in their hands? 'Answer. No, sir; they
     threw down their arms.

     'Question. Did you see any shot the next morning? 'Answer. I
     saw two shot; one was shot by an officer--he was standing,
     holding the officer's horse, and when the officer came and
     got his horse he shot him dead. The officer was setting fire
     to the houses.

     'Question. Do you say the man was holding the officer's
     horse, and when the officer came and took his horse he shot
     the man down? 'Answer. Yes, sir; I saw that with my own
     eyes; and then I made away into the river, right off.

     'Question. Did you see any buried? 'Answer. Yes, sir; a
     great many, black and white.

