          The party continue their route. Description of
          Judith river. Indian mode of taking the buffaloe.
          Slaughter river described. Phenomena of nature. Of
          walls on the banks of the Missouri. The party encamp
          on the banks of the river to ascertain which of the
          streams constitute the Missouri. Captain Lewis
          leaves the party to explore the northern fork, and
          captain Clarke explores the southern. The
          surrounding country described in the route of
          captain Lewis. Narrow escape of one of his party.
                                                                225

                               CHAPTER X.

          Return of captain Lewis. Account of captain Clarke's
          researches with his exploring party. Perilous
          situation of one of his party. Tansy river
          described. The party still believing the southern
          fork the Missouri, captain Lewis is resolves to
          ascend it. Mode of making a place to deposit
          provisions, called cache. Captain Lewis explores the
          southern fork. Falls of the Missouri discovered,
          which ascertains the question. Romantic scenery of
          the surrounding country. Narrow escape of captain
          Lewis. The main body under captain Clarke approach
          within five miles of the falls, and prepare for
          making a portage over the rapids.                     251

                               CHAPTER XI.

          Description and romantic appearance of the Missouri
          at the junction of the Medicine river. The
          difficulty of transporting the baggage at the falls.
          The party employed in the construction of a boat of
          skins. The embarrassments they had to encounter for
          the want of proper materials. During the work the
          party much troubled by white bears. Violent
          hail-storm, and providential escape of captain
          Clarke and his party. Description of a remarkable
          fountain. Singular explosion heard from the Black
          mountains. The boat found to be insufficient, and
          the serious disappointment of the party. Captain
          Clarke undertakes to repair the damage by building
          canoes, and accomplishes the task.                    275

                              CHAPTER XII.

          The party embark on board the canoes. Description of
          Smith's river. Character of the country, &c.
          Dearborne's river described. Captain Clarke precedes
          the party for the purpose of discovering the Indians
          of the Rocky mountains. Magnificent rocky
          appearances on the borders of the river denominated
          the Gates of the Rocky mountains. Captain Clarke
          arrives at the three forks of the Missouri without
          overtaking the Indians. The party arrive at the
          three forks, of which a peculiar and interesting
          description is given.                                 301

                              CHAPTER XIII.

          The name of the Missouri changed, as the river now
          divides itself into three forks, one of which is
          called after Jefferson, the other Madison, and the
          other after Gallatin. Their general character. The
          party ascend the Jefferson branch. Description of
          the river Philosophy which enters into the
          Jefferson. Captain Lewis and a small party go in
          advance in search of the Shoshonees. Description of
          the country, &c. bordering on the river. Captain
          Lewis still preceding the main party in quest of the
          Shoshonees. A singular accident which prevented
          captain Clarke from following captain Lewis's
          advice, and ascending the middle fork of the river.
          Description of Philanthropy river, another stream
          running into the Jefferson. Captain Lewis and a
          small party having been unsuccessful in their first
          attempt, set off a second time in quest of the
          Shoshonees.                                           328

                              CHAPTER XIV.

          Captain Lewis proceeds before the main body in
          search of the Shoshonees; his ill success on the
          first interview. The party with captain Lewis at
          length discover the source of the Missouri. Captain
          Clarke with the main body still employed in
          ascending the Missouri or Jefferson river. Captain
          Lewis's second interview with the Shoshonees
          attended with success. The interesting ceremonies of
          his first introduction to the natives, detailed at
          large. Their hospitality. Their mode of hunting the
          antelope. The difficulties encountered by captain
          Clarke and the main body in ascending the river. The
          suspicions entertained of captain Lewis by the
          Shoshonees, and his mode of allaying them. The
          ravenous appetites of the savages illustrated by
          singular adventure. The Indians still jealous, and
          the great pains taken by captain Lewis to preserve
          their confidence. Captain Clarke arrives with the
          main body exhausted by the difficulties they
          underwent.                                            354

                              CHAPTER XV.

          Affecting interview between the wife of Chaboneau
          and the chief of the Shoshonees. Council held with
          that nation, and favourable result. The extreme
          navigable point of the Missouri mentioned. General
          character of the river and of the country through
          which it passes. Captain Clarke in exploring the
          source of the Columbia falls in company with another
          party of Shoshonees. The geographical information
          acquired from one of that party. Their manner of
          catching fish. The party reach Lewis river. The
          difficulties which captain Clarke had to encounter
          in his route. Friendship and hospitality of the
          Shoshonees. The party with captain Lewis employed in
          making saddles, and preparing for the journey.        381

                              CHAPTER XVI.

          Contest between Drewyer and a Shoshonee. The
          fidelity and honour of that tribe. The party set out
          on their journey. The conduct of Cameahwait
          reproved, and himself reconciled. The easy
          parturition of the Shoshonee women. History of this
          nation. Their terror of the Pawkees. Their
          government and family economy in their treatment of
          their women. Their complaints of Spanish treachery.
          Description of their weapons of warfare. Their
          curious mode of making a shield. The caparison of
          their horses. The dress of the men and of the women
          particularly described. Their mode of acquiring new
          names.                                                407

                              CHAPTER XVII.

          The party, after procuring horses from the
          Shoshonees, proceed on their journey through the
          mountains. The difficulties and dangers of the
          route. A council held with another band of the
          Shoshonees, of whom some account is given. They are
          reduced to the necessity of killing their horses for
          food. Captain Clarke with a small party precedes the
          main body in quest of food, and is hospitably
          received by the Pierced-nose Indians. Arrival of the
          main body amongst this tribe, with whom a council is
          held. They resolve to perform the remainder of their
          journey in canoes. Sickness of the party. They
          descend the Kooskooskee to its junction with Lewis
          river, after passing several dangerous rapids. Short
          description of the manners and dress of the
          Pierced-nose Indians.                                 435

                      LEWIS AND CLARKE'S EXPEDITION

                             UP THE MISSOURI.

                                CHAP.

On the acquisition of Louisiana, in the year 1803, the attention of the government of the United
States, was early directed towards exploring and improving the new territory. Accordingly in
the summer of the same year, an expedition was planned by the president for the purpose of
discovering the courses and sources of the Missouri, and the most convenient water communication
thence to the Pacific ocean. His private secretary captain Meriwether Lewis, and captain William
Clarke, both officers of the army of the United States, were associated in the command of this
enterprize. After receiving the requisite instructions, captain Lewis left the seat of government,
and being joined by captain Clarke at Louisville, in Kentucky, proceeded to St. Louis, where
they arrived in the month of December. Their original* intention was to pass the winter at
La Charrette, the highest settlement on the Missouri. But the Spanish commandant of the province,
not having received an official account of its transfer to the United States, was obliged by
the general policy of his government, to prevent strangers from passing through the Spanish
territory. They therefore encamped at the mouth of Wood river, on the eastern side of the Mississippi,
out of his jurisdiction, where they passed the winter in disciplining the men, and making the
necessary preparations for setting out early in the Spring, before which the cession was officially
announced. The party consisted of nine young men from Kentucky, fourteen soldiers of the United
States army who volunteered their services, two French watermen--an interpreter and hunter--and
a black servant belonging to captain Clarke--All these, except the last, were enlisted to serve
as privates during the expedition, and three sergeants appointed from amongst them by the captains.
In addition to these were engaged a corporal and six soldiers, and nine watermen to accompany
the expedition as far as the Mandan nation, in order to assist in carrying the stores, or repelling
an attack which was most to be apprehended between Wood river and that tribe. The necessary
stores were subdivided into seven bales, and one box, containing a small portion of each article
in case of accident. They consisted of a great variety of clothing, working utensils, locks,
flints, powder, ball, and articles of the greatest use. To these were added fourteen bales
and one box of Indian presents, distributed in the same manner, and composed of richly laced
coats and other articles of dress, medals, flags, knives, and tomahawks for the chiefs--ornaments
of different kinds, particularly beads, lookingglasses, handkerchiefs, paints, and generally
such articles as were deemed best calculated for the taste of the Indians. This was accompanied
by two perioques or open boats, one of six and the other of seven oars. Two horses were at
the same time to be led along the banks of the river for the purpose of bringing home game,
or hunting in case of scarcity.

Of the proceedings of this expedition, the following is a succinct and circumstantial narrative.

All the preparations being completed, we left our encampment on Monday, May 14th, 1804. This
spot is at the mouth of Wood river, a small stream which empties itself into the Mississippi,
opposite to the entrance of the Missouri. It is situated in latitude 38° 55' 19-6/10" north,
and longitude from Greenwich, 89° 57' 45". On both sides of the Mississippi the land for two
or three miles is rich and level, but gradually swells into a high pleasant country, with less
timber on the western than on the eastern side, but all susceptible of cultivation. The point
which separates the two rivers on the north, extends for fifteen or twenty miles, the greater
part of which is an open level plain, in which the people of the neighbourhood cultivate what
little grain they raise. Not being able to set sail before four o'clock P.M., we did not make
more than four miles, and encamped on the first island opposite a small creek called Cold Water.

May 15. The rain, which had continued yesterday and last night, ceased this morning. We then
proceeded, and after passing two small islands about ten miles further, stopped for the night
at Piper's landing, opposite another island. The water is here very rapid and the banks falling
in. We found that our boat was too heavily laden in the stern, in consequence of which she
ran on logs three times to-day. It became necessary to throw the greatest weight on the bow
of the boat, a precaution very necessary in ascending both the Missouri and Mississippi rivers,
in the beds of which, there lie great quantities of concealed timber.

The next morning we set sail at five o'clock. At the distance of a few miles, we passed a remarkable
large coal hill on the north side, called by the French La Charbonniere, and arrived at the
town of St. Charles. Here we remained a few days.

St. Charles is a small town on the north bank of the Missouri, about twenty-one miles from
its confluence with the Mississippi. It is situated in a narrow plain, sufficiently high to
protect it from the annual risings of the river in the month of June, and at the foot of a
range of small hills, which have occasioned its being called Petite Cote, a name by which it
is more known to the French than by that of St. Charles. One principal street, about a mile
in length and running parallel with the river, divides the town, which is composed of nearly
one hundred small wooden houses, besides a chapel.

Being joined by captain Lewis, who had been detained by business at St. Louis, we again set
sail on Monday, May 21st, in the afternoon, but were prevented by wind and rain from going
more than about three miles, when we encamped on the upper point of an island, nearly opposite
a creek which falls in on the south side.

On the 22d we made about eighteen miles, passing several small farms on the bank of the river,
a number of islands, and a large creek on the south side, called Bonhomme, or Goodman's river.
A small number of emigrants from the United States have settled on the sides of this creek,
which are very fertile. We also passed some high lands, and encamped, on the north side, near
a small creek. Here we met with a camp of Kickapoo Indians who had left us at St. Charles,
with a promise of procuring us some provisions by the time we overtook them. They now made
us a present of four deer, and we gave them in return two quarts of whiskey. This tribe reside
on the heads of the Kaskaskia and Illinois river, on the other side of the Mississippi, but
occasionally hunt on the Missouri.

