Very few English tourists think it worth their while to spend any time at Culoz, pretty little
place although it be; and the landlady of the quaint auberge, with its wooden, vine-grown piazza,
was somewhat amazed and distracted by the appearance of foreign visitors. The dining-room seemed
to be full of peasants in blue blouses, who had been attending a fair; but lunch was served
to Mr. and Mrs. Walcott in the open air, on the verandah. Cora grumbled openly at the simple
fare provided; and Alan thought how charming would be the scene and the rustic meal if only
his companion were more congenial. For himself, he was quite satisfied with the long French
loaf, the skinny chicken, the well-salted cream cheese, and the rough red vin du pays. The
blue sky, the lovely view of mountain and valley, lake and grove, the soft wind stirring the
vine leaves on the trellis-work of the verandah, would have given him unmixed delight if he
had been alone. But all was spoiled by the presence of an unloved and unloving wife.

       *       *       *       *       *

The road to the château leads upwards from Culoz, and is a trifle hot and dusty. Alan wondered
dumbly whether Cora had an object in dragging him so far away from the inn, and what that object
was. But he took small annoyances patiently. It was something gained, at least, that his wife
should seem content. Anything was better than tearing rage or violent hysterical weeping, which
were the phases of temper most frequently presented to his view. On this occasion she appeared
pleased and happy. He surprised a touch of malignity in her tones, a glance of evil meaning
now and then; but he did not greatly care. Cora could not keep a secret. If she had any ill-will
or ill intention towards him he was sure to know it before long.

"I am tired," she said at last, abruptly. "Let us sit down and rest. Look, here is an entrance
into the park of the château. Shall we go in?"

"Is it open to the public?" said Alan, with an Englishman's instinctive fear of trespassing.
For, although he had had a French grandmother, and sometimes boasted himself of French descent,
he was essentially English in his ideas. Cora laughed him to scorn.

"I go where I will," she said, "and nobody finds it in his heart to turn me out. Courage, mon
ami, I will protect you, if necessary. Follow me!"

Piqued by her tone, he opened the gate for her, and they passed from the hot, white road into
the green demesnes of the Count who owned the château above Culoz. It struck Alan that his
wife knew the way wonderfully well. She turned without hesitation into a path which led them
to a wooden seat shaded by two great trees, and so situated that it could not be seen by anyone
passing on the high road. Here she seated herself and looked up at her husband with a defiant
smile.

"You have been here before?" he said suddenly.

She nodded. "Precisely, mon ami, I have been here before. And with whom? With M. de Hauteville,
when you imagined me suffering from a migraine a few days ago. Surely you did not think that
it was his first appearance when he arrived at the hotel, the day before yesterday?"

"I do not wish to discuss M. de Hauteville," said Alan turning away.

"But perhaps I wish to discuss him. We discussed you at full length--that day last week. We
chronicled your vices, your weaknesses, your meannesses in detail. One thing I might have told
him, which I left out--the fact that you are no gentleman, not even bourgeois--a mere peasant
clown. He would not have let you measure swords with him if he had known the baseness of your
origin, my friend!"

Alan's lips moved as if he would have spoken, but he restrained himself. He saw that she wanted
him to respond, to lose his temper, to give her some cause of complaint, some opening for recrimination;
and he resolved that he would not yield to her desire. She might abuse him as she would and
he would not reply. She would cease when she was tired--and not till then.

"You are a mean-spirited creature!" she said, her eyes flashing hatred at him as she spoke.
"You have chained me to you all these years, although you know that I loathe the very sight
of you, that I have worshiped Henri, my lover, all the while. Who but a base, vile wretch would
not have given me my freedom? You have known all the time that he loved me, and you have pretended
ignorance because you did not want to let me go. From the moment I found this out, I have hated
and despised you. You have no courage, no spirit; there is nothing even to be afraid of in
you. You would be brutal if you dared, but you do not dare. You can be spiteful and treacherous
and villainous, that is all. And I hate you for all that you are and all that you do not dare
to be!"

Alan ground his teeth, in a moment's raging desire to bring the woman to her senses by some
actual exertion of his physical strength. But the impulse of anger lasted only for a moment.
He knew that half her rage was simulated--that she was lashing herself up in preparation for
some tremendous crisis, and all that he could do was to wait for it in silence. She had risen
to her feet as she spoke. He rose too and leaned against the trunk of a tree, while she stormed
and raved like a madwoman for some minutes in front of him.

"Now," she said at last, "you know what I think of you, how I hate you, how I despise you.
But it is not enough. My father shot down twenty of his enemies in the siege of Paris. Do you
think that his daughter is a coward, to be trampled on by a brutal, cold-blooded Englishman?
No! Because I hate you, and because you have tried to kill the man I love, and because you
are too mean and vile to live--I will kill you!"

Her hand darted to the bosom of her dress. Before Alan could stop her--almost before he realized
what she was doing--she had drawn out a little pistol, cocked it, and pulled the trigger. But
her hurry at the last moment spoiled her aim. Alan felt a sting in the left arm, and knew that
she had so far succeeded in her intentions; but with his right hand he was able to snatch the
pistol from her, and to fling it far into the brushwood.

Then came the reaction. She burst into loud, screaming sobs and tears, and flung herself on
the ground, where she writhed for a time like one in convulsions. Alan seated himself, feeling
somewhat sick and faint, and waited for the storm to spend itself. Some time elapsed before
she became calm; but at last she raised herself panting from the ground and looked half timorously
at her husband. His coolness and quietness often enraged, but now and then it frightened her.

"If you have not another pistol with you," said Alan, "you cannot kill me just now. Perhaps
you have done enough to satisfy yourself for the moment. What do you propose to do next?"

"What do you mean to do?" she asked sullenly. "Of course, you can follow me and give me up
to the police."

"I shall not do that."

"I will not return with you," she said in a furious tone.

"That is natural," Alan agreed politely. "What then?"

"I told you I knew this place," she answered. "I am to meet a friend upon the road, half a
mile further on. I am going there now. He will take me to the next station on the line."

"Admirably planned!" said Alan. "Every detail fits in to perfection."

"And I shall never come back," she said, looking at him spitefully.

For answer, he raised his hat. She turned on her heel, went down the slope towards the road,
and disappeared. It was a strange parting between husband and wife. Not a single feeling of
reluctance existed in the mind of either; only a fixed resolve to have done with each other
henceforth and for ever.

Alan bound up his wounds as well as he could, and retraced his steps to Culoz. He would have
done better, possibly, to avoid the place. People stared at him curiously as he passed them
by. Why had he come back alone? What had he done with the beautiful lady who had accompanied
him when he set forth?

"Hé, monsieur," tried the black-eyed dame of the auberge, leaning over the rail of the verandah,
as he passed: "ou donc est madame? Est-ce qu'elle ne revient pas?"

"Madame est partie," said Alan continuing his walk without turning round. The aubergiste looked
after him in amaze. Where could madame have gone? There was no other road to the station, and
she had been watching for the English milord and his lady for the last hour and a half! What
had he done with madame?

It was a matter of speculation which lasted her for many a day, and was often recounted to
new comers. It became the general opinion at Culoz that the Englishman had in some unaccountable
manner killed his wife and disposed mysteriously of her body. But although search was made
for it high and low, the murdered body was never found. Nevertheless, the stranger's guilt
remained a tradition of the neighborhood, and the story of that marvelous disappearance is
related by the villagers unto this day.

Alan went on his way rejoicing, although in somewhat grim and shame-faced wise. For three years
he had been a miserable slave. Now he was free! And he determined that he would never submit
to bonds again.

CHAPTER II.

AT THE RECTORY.

About the very time when Alan Walcott, at the age of three-and-twenty, was making a hasty match
with the daughter of a French refugee--a match bitterly deplored before the first few weeks
of married life were over--events, which afterwards very greatly affected his career, were
quickly shaping themselves in a sleepy little English village not far from the place where
he was born.

Angleford, a mere handful of red-brick cottages, five miles from a railway station, was little
known to the outer world. Its nearest market-town was Dorminster, and the village of Thorley
lay between Angleford and the county town. Birchmead, a hamlet which had some repute of its
own as a particularly healthy place, stood further down the river on which Angleford was built,
and its merits generally threw those of neighboring villages into the shade.

But Angleford was in itself a pretty little nook, and its inhabitants somewhat prided themselves
on its seclusion from the world. These inhabitants, it must be confessed, were few. It had
once been a larger and more important place, but had gradually dwindled away until the village
contained less than three hundred persons, chiefly laborers and small shop-keepers. Beside
these, there were the doctor, and his wife, the rector and his family, and the squire--a childless
widower, who was of rather less account than anybody else in the parish.

The Rectory was a rambling, long, low, red-brick house standing in prettily-wooded grounds,
bordered by the river, on the other side of which lay the park belonging to the squire. The
park ran for some distance on both sides of the stream, and the Rectory grounds were, so to
speak, taken out of the very midst of the squire's, demesne. The continuation of wooded ground
on either side the narrow winding river made the place particularly picturesque; and it was
a favorite amusement for the rector's son and daughter to push a rather crazy boat out of the
little boat-house at the foot of the garden, and row up and down those reaches of the stream
"between the bridges," which were navigable. One of the bridges warned them of the weir, which
it was not very safe to approach; and beyond the other, three miles further down and close
to Birchmead, the stream was shallow and clogged with reeds. But within these limits there
was a peaceful tranquil beauty which made the boat a favorite resting place for the Rectory
people during the long summer evenings and afternoons.

It was two o'clock on a late autumn afternoon, when a girl of sixteen came out of the Rectory
door, which always stood hospitably open in fine weather, and walked to the boat-house, as
if intending to launch out upon the water. The day was sunny on the whole, but not cloudless:
the sun shone out brightly every now and then, and was again obscured by a filmy haze, such
as rises so easily from the low-lying land in Essex. But the golden haze softened the distant
outlines of wood and meadow, and the sun's beams rested tenderly upon the rapidly stripping
branches, where a few rustling leaves still told of their departed glories. The long undefined
shadows of the trees stretched far across the wide lawn, scarcely moving in the profound stillness
of the air; and a whole assembly of birds kept up a low-toned conversation in the bushes, as
if the day were hardly bright enough to warrant a full chorus of concerted song. It was a tender,
wistful kind of day, such as comes sometimes in the fall of the year, before the advent of
frost. And a certain affinity with the day was visible in the face of the girl who had walked
down to the riverside. There was no melancholy in her expression: indeed, a very sweet and
happy smile played about the corners of her sensitive mouth; but a slightly wistful look in
the long-lashed grey eyes lent an unconscious pathos to the delicate face. But, although delicate,
the face was anything but weak. The features were clearly cut; the mouth and chin expressed
decision as well as sensibility; and beneath the thick, fine waves of shining brown hair, the
forehead was broad and well-developed. Without pretension to actual beauty or any kind of perfection,
the face was one likely to attract and then to charm; gentleness, thoughtfulness, intellectual
power, might be read in those fair features, as well as an almost infantine candor and innocence,
and the subtle and all too-transient bloom of extreme youth. Her hair, which constituted one
of her best "points," was simply parted in the middle, fastened with a clasp at the nape of
her neck, and then allowed to fall in a smooth, shining shower down to her waist. Mrs. Campion,
who had been something of a beauty in her young days, was given to lamenting that Lettice's
hair was not golden, as hers had been; but the clear soft brown of the girl's abundant tresses
had a beauty of it's own; and, as it waved over her light woollen frock of grey-green hue,
it gave her an air of peculiar appropriateness to the scene--as of a wood-nymph, who bore the
colors of the forest-trees from which she sprang.

Such, at any rate, was the fancy of a man whose canoe came shooting down the river at this
moment, like an arrow from a bow. He slackened pace as he came near the Rectory garden, and
peered through the tangled branches which surrounded the old black boat-house, to catch another
glimpse of Lettice. He wondered that she did not notice him: his red and white blazer and jaunty
cap made him a somewhat conspicuous object in this quiet country place; and she must have heard
the long strokes of his oars. But she remained silent, apparently examining the fastenings
of the boat; absorbed and tranquil, with a happy smile upon her lips.

"Good afternoon, Miss Campion: can I help you there in any way?" he shouted at last, letting
his boat slide past the boat-house entrance, and then bringing it round to the little flight
of grassy steps cut in the bank from the lawn to the river.

"Oh, good afternoon, Mr. Dalton. Thank you, no; I don't want any help," said Lettice; but the
young man had already set foot upon the lawn and was advancing towards her. He was the nephew
and heir of the childless Squire at Angleford Manor, and he occasionally spent a few weeks
with his uncle in the country. Old Mr. Dalton was not fond of Angleford, however, and the Campions
did not see much of him and his nephew.

Brooke Dalton was six-and-twenty, a manly, well-looking young fellow, with fair hair and bright
blue eyes. He was not very tall, and had already begun to develop a tendency towards stoutness,
which gave him considerable trouble in after years. At present he kept it down by heavy doses
of physical exercise, so that it amounted only to a little unusual fullness of body and the
suspicion of a double chin. His enemies called him fat. His friends declared that his sunshiny
look of prosperity and good-humor was worth any amount of beauty, and that it would be a positive
loss to the world if he were even a trifle thinner. And Brooke Dalton was a man of many friends.

Lettice greeted him with a smile. "So you are here again," she said.

"Yes, I've been here a day or two. Have you heard from Sydney yet?"

"No, and we are dreadfully anxious. But papa says we shall hear very soon now."

"I don't suppose you need have the slightest anxiety. Sydney is sure to do well: he was always
a clever fellow."

"Yes, but he has had no teaching except from papa: and papa torments himself with the idea
that there may be better teachers than himself at Cambridge--which I am sure there couldn't
be. And I am sure he will be disappointed if Sydney does not get at least an exhibition, although
he tries to pretend that he will not mind."

"If he does not get it this year, he will be the surer of it next time."

"Yes," said Lettice rather doubtfully. "But I wish papa were not quite so anxious."

"Did he go to Cambridge with Sydney?"

"Yes, and stayed for a day or two; but he said he was rather glad to get home again--there
had been so many changes since he was there."

"Here he comes," said Brooke, turning round.

The rector was a dignified-looking man, with a tall figure, handsome features, and hair and
beard which had of late been growing very grey. He greeted Dalton cordially, and at once began
to speak of his hopes and expectations for his son. To all of these Dalton responded good-humoredly.
"Sydney has plenty of brains: he is is sure to do well," he said.

"Oh, I don't know--I don't know. I've been his only tutor, and I may not have laid the foundations
with sufficient care. I shall not be at all surprised if he fails. Indeed"--with a transparent
affectation of indifference--"I shall not be sorry to have him back for another year. He is
not quite eighteen, you know. And Lettice will be glad to have him again."

"But I want him to succeed!" said Lettice eagerly.

"Of course you do. And he will succeed," said Brooke; an assurance which caused her to flash
a glad look of gratitude to him in reply.

"Lettice has been Sydney's companion in his studies," said Mr. Campion, patting her hand gently
with his long white fingers. "She has been very industrious and has got on very well, but I
daresay she will be pleased to have a holiday when he is gone."

"Yes, I daresay," said Brooke; and then, looking at Lettice, he saw the manifestation of some
strong feeling which he did not understand. The girl flushed hotly and withdrew her hand from
her father's arm. The tears suddenly came into her eyes.

"I never wanted a holiday," she said, in a hurt tone.

"No, no, you were always a good girl," returned her father absently--his eyes had wandered
away from her to the high-road beyond the glebe. "But of course there is a limit to a girl's
powers; she can't compete with a boy beyond a certain point. Is not that a cab, Lettice? Surely
it must be Sydney, and he has came at last. Well, now we shall know the result!"

"I'll go to the fence and look," said Lettice, running away. The tears of mortification and
distress were still smarting in her eyes. Why should her father depreciate her to their neighbor
because she was a girl? She did not mind Mr. Dalton's opinion of her, but it was hard that
her father should give her no credit for the work that she had done in the study at his side.
Step by step she had kept pace with her brother: sometimes he had excelled her, sometimes she
thought that she was outstripping him. Now in the hour of his possible success (of which she
would be proud and glad), why should her father seem to undervalue her powers and her industry?
They would never bring her the guerdon that might fall to Sydney's lot; but she felt that she,
too, had a right to her father's praise.

She had been vaguely hurt during Sydney's absence to find that Mr. Campion did not seem disposed
to allow her to go on working alone with him. "Wait, my dear, wait," he had said to her, when
she came to him as usual, "let us see how Sydney's examination turns out. If he comes back
to us for another year you can go on with him. If not--well, you are a girl, it does not matter
so much for you; and your mother complains that you do not sit with her sufficiently. Take
a holiday just now, we will go on when Sydney comes back."

But in this, Lettice's first separation from her beloved brother, she had no heart for a holiday.
She would have been glad of hard work to take her out of herself. She was anxious, sad, dés[oe]uvrée,
and if she had not been taught all her life to look on failure in an examination as something
disgraceful, she would have earnestly hoped that Sydney might lose the scholarship for which
he was competing.

Brooke Dalton saw that his presence was scarcely desired just then, and took his leave, meditating
as he pulled up the river on Lettice's reddened cheeks and pretty tear-filled eyes. "I suppose
she thinks she'll miss her brother when he goes away," he decided at length, "and no doubt
she will, for a time; but it is just as well--what does a girl want with all that Latin and
Greek? It will only serve to make her forget to brush her hair and wear a frock becomingly.
Of course she's clever, but I should not care for that sort of cleverness in a sister--or a
wife." He thought again of the girl's soft grey eyes. But he had a hundred other preoccupations,
and her image very soon faded from his brain.

Lettice ran to the fence to look at the cab, but Mr. Campion turned at once to the gateway
and walked out into the road. He had not been mistaken, it was Sydney, indeed; and as soon
as the young fellow saw his father he stopped the vehicle, told the driver to go on to the
Rectory with his portmanteau, and turned to his father with a triumphant smile. Lettice did
not meet the pair for a minute or two, so the son's communication was made first to Mr. Campion
alone.

"Here I am, sir!" was the young man's greeting, "turned up again like a bad half-penny."

"Welcome anyhow, my boy," said the rector, "and sterling coin, I'll warrant, however much you
may malign yourself." He was too nervous to ask a direct question about his son's success.
"We have been very dull without you. Lettice is counting on your help to break in her pony
to the saddle."

"You mustn't be dull after a week's absence. What would you do if I had to be more than half
the year at Cambridge?"

"Ah, that would be a different thing. Have they given you an exhibition then?"

"Well, not exactly that." The rector's face fell, but it brightened as Sydney proceeded with
a touch of youthful pomposity. "Your old pupil is a Scholar of Trinity."

The rector was carrying his cane as he walked along, and when Sydney had told his good news
he stopped short, his face aglow, and for lack of any more eloquent mode of expressing his
satisfaction, raised it in the air and brought it down with sounding emphasis on his companion's
back.

Sydney laughed.

"Laudatur et alget," he said. "How many stripes would it have been if I had come home disgraced?"

"The stripes would have been my portion in that case," the rector answered, with a hearty laugh.
He had not been so jovial for many months.

Then Lettice came running up, and had to be told the news, and clung to Sydney's neck with
kisses, which he graciously permitted rather than returned. But he was gratified by her affection,
as well as by the pride and pleasure which his father took in his success, and the less discriminating,
but equally warm congratulations and caresses showered upon him by his mother.

Indeed for the rest of the day, Sydney was caressed and complimented to his heart's content.
He preferred the compliments to the caresses, and he was not unloving to his parents, although
he repulsed Lettice when she attempted to kiss him more than once. He had come back from Cambridge
with an added sense of manliness and importance, which did not sit ill upon his handsome face
and the frank confidence of his manner. It was Sydney who had inherited the golden hair and
regular features which, as his mother said, ought to have belonged to Lettice and not to him;
but she loved him all the more dearly for his resemblance to her family and to herself. It
escaped her observation that Sydney's blue-grey eyes were keener, his mouth more firmly closed
and his jaw squarer than those of most boys or men, and betokened, if physiognomy goes for
anything, a new departure in character and intellect from the ways in which Mrs. Campion and
her family had always walked. A fair, roseate complexion, and a winning manner, served to disguise
these points of difference; and Mrs. Campion had not quick sight for anything which did not
lie upon the surface, in the character of those with whom she had to do.

She was usually to be found in the drawing-room--a faded, pretty woman, little over fifty years
of age, but with the delicate and enfeebled air of the semi-invalid--a white shawl round her
shoulders, a bit of knitting or embroidery between her incapable, uncertain fingers. Her hair
was very grey, but the curliness had never gone out of it, and it sprang so crisply and picturesquely
from her white, unwrinkled forehead that it seemed a pity to hide any of the pretty waves even
by the crown of fine old lace which Mrs. Campion loved. She was a woman at whom no one could
look without a sense of artistic satisfaction, for her face was still charming, and her dress
delicately neat and becoming. As for her mental and moral qualities, she was perfectly well
satisfied with them, and her husband was as satisfied as she--although from a somewhat different
point of view. And as she very properly remarked, if her husband were satisfied with her, she
did not know why she should be called upon to regard any adverse opinion of the outer world.
At the same time she was an ardent disciple of Mrs. Grundy.

How this woman came to be the mother of a child like Lettice, it were, indeed, hard to say.
Sydney was fashioned more or less after Mrs. Campion's own heart: he was brisk, practical,
unimaginative--of a type that she to some extent understood; but Lettice with her large heart,
her warm and passionate nature, her keen sensibilities and tender conscience, was a continual
puzzle to her mother. Especially at this period of the girl's life, when new powers were developing
and new instincts coming into existence--the very time when a girl most needs the help and
comfort of a mother's tender comprehension--Mrs. Campion and Lettice fell hopelessly apart.
Lettice's absorption in her studies did not seem right in Mrs. Campion's eyes: she longed with
all her soul to set her daughter down to crewel-work and fancy knitting, and her one comfort
in view of Sydney's approaching separation from his home was her hope that, when he was gone,
Lettice would give up Latin and Greek and become like other girls. She was ignorantly proud
of Sydney's successes: she was quite as ignorantly ashamed of Lettice's achievements in the
same lines of study.

"I can never forget," she said to Lettice that evening, when the rector and his son were discussing
Cambridge and examination papers in the study, while the mother and her daughter occupied the
drawing-room--Lettice, indeed, wild to join her father and brother in the study and glean every
possible fragment of information concerning the place which she had been taught to reverence,
but far too dutiful to her mother to leave her alone when Mrs. Campion seemed inclined to talk--"I
can never forget that Sydney learned his alphabet at my knee. I taught him to spell, at any
rate; and if your father had not insisted on taking the teaching out of my hands when he was
seven years old, I am convinced that I should have done great things with him."

"Surely he has done great things already, mamma!" Lettice said with enthusiasm.

"Oh, yes!" said Mrs. Campion with a sigh. "But I don't think your father has given quite the
bias to his mind that I should have liked best. I have always hoped that he would spend his
strength in the service of the Church; but----You have not heard him say much about his future
career, have you, Lettice?"

"I don't think he has considered it particularly," Lettice answered. "But he never speaks of
taking Orders; he talked of the Bar the other day. There's no reason why he should make up
his mind so soon, is there, mamma?"

"No, dear, no. But I am quite sure that if he went into the Church he would be a Bishop," said
Mrs. Campion, with conviction. "And I should like him to be a Bishop."

"Well, perhaps he will be Lord Chancellor instead," said Lettice, merrily.

"There can be no doubt, my dear," said her mother, "that a Bishop of the Anglican Church is
able to carry himself with more dignity and distinction in everyday life than a Lord Chancellor,
who is only dignified when he is on the Bench. I think that Sydney would make an excellent
Bishop--quite the most distinguished Bishop of the day."

It was not until next morning that Lettice had time to ply her brother with questions as to
his examination and his Cambridge experiences generally. She did not ask about the visit to
London which he had also paid. She had been to London herself, and could go there any day.
But Cambridge!--the goal of Sydney's aspirations--the place where (the girl believed) intellectual
success or failure was of such paramount importance--what was that like?

Sydney was ready to hold forth. He liked the position of instructor and was not insensible
to the flattery of Lettice's intentness on his answers. But he was a little dismayed by one
of her questions, which showed the direction of her thoughts.

"Did you hear anything about the women's college, Sydney?" For Girton and Newnham were less
well known then than they are now.

"Women's colleges! No, indeed. At least, I heard them laughed at several times. They're no good."

"Why not?" said Lettice, wistfully.

"Now, Lettice," said the youthful mentor, severe in boyish wisdom, "I hope you are not going
to take fancies into your head about going to Cambridge yourself. I should not like it at all.
I'm not going to have my sister laughed at and sneered at every time she walks out. I don't
want to be made a laughing-stock. Nice girls stay at home with their mothers; they don't go
to colleges and make themselves peculiar."

"I am not going to be peculiar; but I don't want to forget all I have learned with you," said
Lettice, quickly.

"You have learned too much already," said the autocrat, whose views concerning women's education
had developed since his short stay in Cambridge. "Girls don't want Latin and Greek; they want
music and needlework, and all that sort of thing. I don't want my sister to be a blue-stocking."

Lettice felt that her lot in life ought not to be settled for her simply as Sydney's sister--that
she had an individuality of her own. But the feeling was too vague to put into words; and after
Syndey had left her, in obedience to a call from his father, she sat on in the long, low room
with its cushioned window-seats and book-covered walls--the dear old room in which she had
spent so many happy hours with her teacher and her fellow-pupil--and wondered what would become
of her when Sydney was really gone; whether all those happy days were over, and she must henceforth
content herself with a life at Mrs. Campion's side, where it was high treason to glance at
any book that was neither a devotional work nor a novel. Lettice loved her mother, but the
prospect did not strike her as either brilliant or cheering.

It was the beginning, although at first she knew it not, of a new era in her life. Her happy
childhood was over; she was bound henceforth to take up the heavy burden which custom lays
on the shoulders of so many women: the burden of trivial care, unchanging routine, petty conventionalities--

    "Heavy as frost and deep almost as life."

Sydney went out into the world to fight; Lettice sat in idleness at home; and society, as well
as the rector and his wife, judged this division of labor to be fair and right. But to Lettice,
whose courage was high and whose will and intellect were strong, it seemed a terrible injustice
that she might not fight and labor too. She longed for expansion: for a wider field and sharper
weapons wherewith to contest the battle; and she longed in vain. During her father's lifetime
it became more and more impossible for her to leave home. She was five-and-twenty before she
breathed a larger air than that of Angleford.

CHAPTER III.

PROGRESS.

In due time, Sydney proceeded to Cambridge, and Lettice was left alone. The further development
of brother and sister can scarcely be understood without a retrospective glance at their own
and their parents' history.

The Reverend Lawrence Campion, Rector of Angleford, was at this time a prosperous and contented
man. Before he reached his fortieth year, he had been presented by an old college friend to
a comfortable living. Married to the woman of his early choice, he had become the father of
two straight-limbed, healthy, and intelligent children; and then, for another twenty years,
he felt that he would not care to change his lot with that of the most enviable of his fellow-creatures.

Being himself a scholar and a student, he determined that his boy and girl, so far as he could
shape their lives, should be scholars also. To teach them all he knew was henceforth his chief
occupation; for he would not hand over to another a task which for him was a simple labor of
love. Day by day he sat between them in his comfortable study, where roses tapped at the lozenge-shaped
window panes all through the summer, and in winter the glow of the great logs upon the hearth
was reflected from the polished binding and gilt lettering of his books in a thousand autumnal
hues, as pleasing to his eyes as the tints of the summer flowers. Day by day he sat between
his children, patiently laying the foundation of all they could thereafter learn or know. He
made no distinction for age or sex; and in their case, at any rate, nature had set no stigma
of inferiority on the intelligence of the girl. Sydney was the older of the two by eighteen
months, and at first it seemed as though his mind was readier to grasp a new idea; but there
awoke in Lettice a spirit of generous rivalry and resolution, which saved her from being far
out-stripped by her brother. Together they studied Greek and Latin; they talked French and
read German; they picked up as much of mathematics as their father could explain to them--which
was little enough; and, best of all, they developed a literary faculty such as does not always
accompany a knowledge of half-a-dozen dead and living languages.

