THE
                            MOTHER'S MANUAL
                                   OF
                          CHILDREN'S DISEASES.

                                   BY
                           CHARLES WEST, M.D.

  FELLOW, AND LATE SENIOR CENSOR, OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS:
 FOUNDER OF, AND FORMERLY PHYSICIAN TO, THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN:
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE OF PARIS: ETC.

     AUTHOR OF 'LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD.'

                               NEW YORK:
                        D. APPLETON AND COMPANY.
                                 1885.

ADVERTISEMENT.

I have often asked myself whether it would not be possible to give in a small compass, and
avoiding all technical detail, such an account of the diseases of infancy and childhood, as
might be of use and comfort to the intelligent mother.

Returning now, with health perfectly restored, to practise my profession for the rest of my
life exclusively in my own country, I have brought with me this little book, in which the comparative
leisure of my enforced sojourn at Nice has enabled me to realise my purpose.

The book is not intended as a handbook for the nursery; many such exist, and many of them are
of great merit. Neither has it the worse than idle pretence of telling people how to treat
their children's illnesses, without the help of a doctor. Its object is to give a description
of the diseases of early life, such as may help a mother to understand something of their nature
and symptoms, to save her from needless anxiety as to their issue, and to enable her wisely
to second the doctor in his endeavours for their cure.

                                                           CHARLES WEST.

55 HARLEY STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE. August 1, 1885.

CONTENTS.

                                                                    PAGE

ADVERTISEMENT                                                          v

PART I.

INTRODUCTORY                                                           1

CHAPTER I.                                                             1
    Mortality of children and its causes -- Causes fourfold:
    Intermarriage -- Hereditary taint -- Unhealthy dwellings --
    Unwholesome food

CHAPTER II.                                                            5
    General signs of disease -- Shown by the cry, the temperature, the
    pulse and breathing -- Rules for examination as to these points --
    Signs of absence of disease of the brain

CHAPTER III.                                                          12
    General management of disease -- Mothers who cannot nurse their
    children when ill -- Importance of truth and keeping child happy --
    Rules for management of bed-room and bed -- The bath -- Poultices --
    Leeches -- Cold applications -- Medicines -- Note-taking and
    relation to the doctor

PART II.

PLAN PROPOSED TO BE FOLLOWED                                          31

CHAPTER IV.                                                           32
    On the disorders and diseases of children during the first month
    after birth -- Still-birth -- Premature birth -- Imperfect expansion
    of lungs -- Jaundice -- Ophthalmia -- Scalp-swellings -- Ruptured
    navel

CHAPTER V.                                                            45
    Disorders and diseases of children after the first month, and until
    teething is finished -- Infantile atrophy -- Rules for artificial
    feeding -- Management of indigestion -- Thrush -- Teething --
    Affections of the skin -- Eczema

PART III.

DISORDERS AND DISEASES INCIDENT TO ALL PERIODS OF CHILDHOOD           85

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF SECOND PERIOD OF CHILDHOOD                 85

CHAPTER VI.                                                           88
    Disorders and diseases of the brain and nervous system -- Their
    mortality and its causes -- Convulsions -- Congestion of the
    brain -- Sunstroke -- Water on the brain -- Inflammation from
    disease of the ear -- Chronic water on brain -- Brain disorder from
    exhaustion -- Spasmodic croup -- Epilepsy -- St. Vitus's Dance --
    Palsy -- Neuralgia and headache -- Night terrors

CHAPTER VII.                                                         128
    Disorders and diseases of the chest -- Catarrh and snuffles --
    Bronchitis and pneumonia -- Influenza -- Pleurisy -- Croup --
    Diphtheria -- Hooping-cough -- Asthma -- Diseases of the heart

CHAPTER VIII.                                                        151
    Diseases of organs of digestion -- Description of process of
    digestion -- Dyspepsia of weakly children -- Jaundice --
    Diarrh[oe]a -- Peritonitis -- Large abdomen -- Worms -- Ulcerated
    mouth -- Quinsy -- Enlarged tonsils -- Abscess at back of throat --
    Diseases of kidneys -- Incontinence of urine

CHAPTER IX.                                                          173
    Constitutional diseases -- Their nature -- Chronic constitutional
    diseases -- Consumption -- Scrofula -- Rickets -- Acute
    constitutional diseases -- Rheumatic fever -- Ague -- Mumps --
    Typhoid fever -- Small-pox -- Inoculation and vaccination --
    Chicken-pox -- Measles

APPENDIX.                                                            213
    Mental and moral faculties in childhood, and the disorders to which
    they are liable

INDEX                                                                231

THE MOTHER'S MANUAL

OF

CHILDREN'S DISEASES.

PART I.

INTRODUCTORY.

CHAPTER I.

ON THE MORTALITY OF CHILDREN, AND ITS CAUSES.

The purpose of this little book will probably be best attained, and needless repetition best
avoided, if we begin by inquiring very briefly why so many children die, what general signs
indicate that they are ill, and what general rules can be laid down for their management in
sickness.

The first of these inquiries would be as useless as it would be sad, if the rate of infant
mortality were fixed by determinate laws, such as those which limit the stature of man or the
age to which he can attain.

But this is not so; the mortality in early life varies widely in different countries, in different
parts of the same country, and in the same country at different times. Thus, while in some
parts of Germany the mortality under one year was recently as high as 25 to 30 per cent. of
the total births, and in England as 15, it was only a little above 10 per cent. in Norway.
Infantile mortality is higher in manufacturing districts, lower in those which are agricultural,
and varies from 16 per cent. in Lancashire to 9 in Dorsetshire. It is then evident that mortality
in infancy is in part dependent on remediable causes; and of this there is no better proof
than the fact that the mortality in England under one year has been reduced from 15 per cent.
in 1872 to 13 per cent. in 1882.

It would lead us far from any practical purpose if we were to examine into all the causes which
govern the liability to disease and death during infancy and childhood, in the different ranks
of society. We must therefore limit our inquiry to those conditions which are met with in the
class to which my readers may fairly be assumed to belong.

First among the causes of sickly infancy and premature death may be mentioned the intermarriage
of near relatives. The experience of the breeders of animals, who, by what is termed breeding
in and in, undoubtedly obtain certain qualities of speed, or strength, or beauty, does not
apply here. They select for their experiments animals whose qualities in these respects are
pre-eminent, and eliminate from them all who do not occupy the first rank. In family intermarriages,
however, it is rare that any consideration is regarded, save that of wealth; and the fact remains,
explain it as we may, that the intermarriage of near relatives during several successive generations
is followed by a marked deterioration of the children, physical, mental, and moral; and by
the intensifying of any hereditary predisposition to consumption, scrofula, and other constitutional
ailments which form the second great cause of early sickness and mortality.

These are facts known to all, which yet it is not easy to represent by figures. All the world
is aware that consumption is hereditary, that consumptive parents are more likely than others
to have consumptive children; and a fourth of all the patients admitted into the Hospital for
Consumption at Brompton stated that the disease had existed in one or other of their parents.[1]
Scrofula, which is another disease closely allied to consumption, is hereditary also; and hip
disease, disease of the spine, abscesses, and enlarged glands in any members of a family, point
to risks for the offspring which should not be forgotten, how much soever mental endowments,
personal beauty, or the charms of disposition may be considered, and sometimes reasonably enough,
to outweigh them. The same liability exists with reference to epilepsy, insanity, and the whole
class of affections of the nervous system. Parents inquire, with no misplaced solicitude, what
is her fortune, or what are the pecuniary resources of him to whom they are asked to entrust
their son's or daughter's future. Believe me, the question--what is the health of his family,
or of hers? is consumption hereditary, or scrofula, or epilepsy, or insanity?--is of far greater
moment, and touches much more nearly the future happiness of those we love.

These two points regard the future parents themselves; but there are other conditions on which
the health of children to a great degree depends; and of these the two most important are the
dwelling they inhabit, and the food they eat.

I do not refer here to the dwellings of the poor, situated in unhealthy localities, where fresh
air does not enter, where the rays of the sun do not penetrate, with defective drainage and
imperfect water-supply; but I speak of the nurseries of well-to-do people. 'This will do for
our bedroom, and that will make a nice spare room, and that will do for the children,' is what
one often hears. Had you rare plants which cost much money to obtain, which needed sunlight,
warmth, and air, would you not consider anxiously the position of your conservatory, and take
much pains to insure that nothing should be wanting that could help their development, so that
you might feast your eyes upon their beauty, or delight yourselves with their fragrance? And
yet a room at the top of the house, one of the attics perhaps, is too often destined for the
little one and its nurse; or if there are two or three children, one small room is set apart
for the day nursery, and a second, probably with a different aspect, for a sleeping room, and
so small that it does not furnish the needed five hundred cubic feet of air for each. And as
a consequence, the children are ailing, any predisposition in them to hereditary disease is
fostered, they have no strength to battle against any acute illness that may befall them, and
yet surprise is felt that the doctor is never out of the house.[2]

It is needless to dwell on the hand-feeding of infants as one of the great causes of mortality
in infancy, and of sickliness in later life. The statistics of Foundling Hospitals bear sad
testimony to the fact of its dangers, and the researches of physicians show that a peculiar
form of disease is produced by it, attended by symptoms, and giving rise to appearances after
death, peculiar to the form of slow starvation from which the infant has perished. I will add,
because it is not generally known, one fresh illustration of the influence of artificial feeding
in aggravating the mortality of infants. In Berlin the certificates of death of all infants
under the age of one year, are required to state whether the little one had been brought up
at the breast, or on some kind or other of artificial food. Of ten thousand children dying
under the age of one year, one-fourth had been brought up at the breast, three-fourths by hand.[3]

It is, as I said in the preface, no part of my plan to enter on any details with reference
to the management of children in health. It may, therefore, suffice to have pointed out the
four great causes of preventible disease among the wealthier classes of society; namely, the
intermarriage of near relatives, the transmission of constitutional taint, the insanitary condition
of the dwelling, and the injudicious selection of the food of the infant.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This is the proportion stated in Quain's Dictionary of Medicine, to which the writer, Dr.
Theodore Williams, adds that of 1,000 cases in the upper classes 12 per cent. showed direct
hereditary predisposition, and 48 per cent. family predisposition.

[2] Many useful suggestions will be found in Mrs. Gladstone's little tract, Healthy Nurseries
and Bedrooms, published as one of the Health Exhibition Handbooks.

[3] The actual numbers are 2,628 and 7,646. See Generalbericht ueber das Medizinal-und Sanitätswesen
der Stadt Berlin im Jahre 1881. 8vo. Berlin 1883, p. 19.

CHAPTER II.

THE GENERAL SIGNS OF DISEASE IN INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD.

The signs of disease at all ages may be referred to one or other of three great classes: disorder
of function, alteration of temperature, complaint of pain.

In the infant it is the last of these which very often calls attention to the illness from
which it is suffering. Cries are the only language which a young baby has to express its distress;
as smiles and laughter and merry antics tell without a word its gladness. The baby must be
ill, is all that its cries tell one person; another, who has seen much of sick children, will
gather from them more, and will be able to judge whether its suffering is in the head, or chest,
or stomach. The cries of a baby with stomach-ache are long and loud and passionate; it sheds
a profusion of tears; now stops for a moment, and then begins again, drawing up its legs to
its stomach; and as the pain passes off, stretches them out again, and with many little sobs
passes off into a quiet sleep. If it has inflammation of the chest it does not cry aloud, it
sheds no tears, but every few minutes, especially after drawing a deeper breath than before,
or after each short hacking cough, it gives a little cry, which it checks apparently before
it is half finished; and this, either because it has no breath to waste in cries, or because
the effort makes its breathing more painful. If disease is going on in the head, the child
utters sharp piercing shrieks, and then between whiles a low moan or wail, or perhaps no sound
at all, but lies quiet, apparently dozing, till pain wakes it up again.

It is not, however, by the cry alone, or by any one sign of disease, that it is possible to
judge either of its nature or of its degree, but the mention of this serves merely as an illustration,
which anyone can understand, of the different meanings that even a baby's cry will convey to
different persons.

