I suggested weakly that perhaps the biggest man of all had left his body behind on the table
at home. The suggestion was scorned.

"No, he hadn't never had any body at all, this man," she replied. And then, as my interest
seemed to be flagging again, "They all had very rosy faces; and do you know why they had?"

"I don't, I'm sure."

"Because they'd eaten up all their greens."

Vanquished at last, I went over to visit the eupeptic voyagers. Seven in all, they stood in
their bright boat on a blue sea beneath a round and burning sun. Their legs were long and thin,
their bodies globular (all save one), and their faces large. They were dressed apparently in
light pink doublets and hose, and on his head each wore a huge purple turban the shape of a
cottage loaf, surmounted by a ragged plume. They varied greatly in stature, but their countenances
were all fixed in the same unmeaning stare. Take it all in all, it was an eerie and terrible scene.

"I don't quite see how the boat moves along, Priscilla," I said; "it hasn't any oars or sail."

It was a tactless remark and the artist made no reply. I did my best to cover my blunder.

"I expect the wind blew very hard on their feathers," I said, "and that drove them along."

"What colour is the wind?" inquired Priscilla.

She had me there. I confessed that I did not know.

"It was a brown wind," she decided, impatient at my lack of resource, and slapped a wet typhoon
of madder on the page. There was no more doubt about the wind.

"And is the picture finished now?" I asked her.

"No, it isn't finished. I haven't drawn the pookin yet."

The pookin is a confusion in the mind of Priscilla between a pelican and a toucan, because
she saw them both for the first time on the same day. In this case it consisted of an indigo
splodge and a long red bar cutting right through the brown wind and penetrating deeply into
the yellow sun.

"It had a very long beak," observed Priscilla.

"It had," I agreed.

I am no stickler for commonplace colours or conventional shapes in a work of art, but I do
like things to be recognisable; to know, for instance, when a thing is meant to be a man and
when it is meant to be a boat, and when it is meant to be a pookin and when it is meant to
be a sun. The art of Priscilla seems to me to satisfy this test much better than that of many
of our modern maestri. Strictly representational it may not be, but there are none of your
whorls and cylinders and angles and what nots.

But I also insist that a work of art should appeal to the imagination as well as to the eye,
and there seemed to me details about this picture that needed clearing up.

"Where were these men going to, Priscilla?" I asked.

"They was going to Wurvin," she answered in the tone of a mother who instructs her child. "And
what do you think they was going to do there?"

"I don't know."

"They was going to see Auntie Isabel."

"And what did they do then?"

"They had dinner," she cried enthusiastically. "And do you know what they did after dinner?"

"I don't."

"They went on the Front to see the fire-escape."

It seemed to me now that the conception was mellow, rounded and complete. It had all the haunting
mystery and romance of the sea about it. It was reminiscent of the Ancient Mariner. It savoured
of the books of Mr. CONRAD. It reminded me not a little of those strange visitations which
come to quiet watering-places in the novels of Mr. H.G. WELLS. When I thought of those seven
men--one, alas, disembodied--so strangely attired yet so careful of elementary hygiene, driven
by that fierce typhoon, with that bird of portent in the skies, arriving suddenly with the
salt of their Odyssey upon their brows at the beach of the genteel and respectable Sussex town,
and visiting a perhaps slightly perturbed Auntie Isabel, and afterwards the fire-escape, I
felt that here was the glimpse of the wild exotic adventure for which the hearts of all of
us yearn. It left the cinema standing. It beat the magazine story to a frazzle.

"And who is the picture for, Priscilla?" I asked, when I had thoroughly steeped myself in the
atmosphere.

"It's for you," she said, presenting it with a motley-coloured hand; "it's for you to take
to London town and not to drop it."

I was careful to do as I was told, because I have a friend who paints Expressionist pictures,
and I wished to deliver it at his studio. It seems to me that Priscilla, half-unconsciously
perhaps, is founding a new school of art which demands serious study. One might call it, I
think, the Pookin School.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHEN CHARL. COMES OVER.

It is said that Mr. CHARLES CHAPLIN, a prominent citizen of Los Angeles, Cal., has employed
the greater part of the last few days in mopping his brow, sighing with relief and exclaiming
"Gee!"

Mr. CHAPLIN declares that missing the boat for England recently was the narrowest escape from
death he has ever enjoyed. But for having been thus providentially prevented from visiting
his native land in the company of Miss MARY PICKFORD and Mr. DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS (better known
as "MARY" and "DOUG." respectively) he would have come back to the dear homeland all unprepared
for what would surely have happened to him no less than it happened to his illustrious colleagues
in the film world.

Since his promised visit to our shores cannot long be delayed, he has already begun elaborate
preparations for travelling in safety. He is growing a large beard and is learning to walk
with his toes turned in. A number of his teeth will be blackened out during the whole of his
European tour, and his hair will be kept well-ironed and cropped short.

He has engaged a complete staff of plain-clothes pugilists to travel with him everywhere and
to stand on guard outside his bathroom door. They will also surround him during meal-times
to prevent admirers from grabbing his food to hand down to their children as heirlooms.

He is being measured for a complete outfit of holeproof clothing, and his motor will be a Ford
of seventeen thicknesses, with armoured steel windows, and fitted with first-aid accessories,
including liniment, restoratives and raw steak. His entourage will include a day doctor, a
night doctor, a leading New York surgeon and a squad of stretcher-bearers.

It has been suggested to him that a further precaution would be not to advise the Press of
the date of his arrival; but that he considers would be carrying his safety-first measures
to a foolish extreme.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A TRAGEDY OF REACTION.

  It was a super-poet of the neo-Georgian kind
  Whose fantasies transcended the simple bourgeois mind,
  And by their frank transgression of all the ancient rules
  Were not exactly suited for use in infant schools.

  But, holding that no rebel should shrink from fratricide,
  His gifted brother-Georgians he suddenly defied,
  And in a manifesto extremely clear and terse
  Announced his firm intention of giving up free verse.

  The range of his reaction may readily be guessed
  When I mention that for Browning his devotion he confessed,
  Enthroned above the SITWELLS the artless Muse of "BAB,"
  And said that MARINETTI was not as good as CRABBE.

  At first the manifesto was treated as a joke,
  A boyish ebullition that soon would end in smoke;
  But when he took to writing in strict and fluent rhyme
  His family decided to extirpate the crime.

  Two scientific doctors declared he was insane,
  But likely under treatment his reason to regain;
  So he's now in an asylum, where he listens at his meals
  To a gramophone recital of the choicest bits from Wheels.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RETURN TO WOAD. For example, the humorous possibilities (or perils) in the plot of The
Shadow of Stephen Wade (JENKINS) might well have daunted a writer of more experience. Stephen
Wade was an ancestor, dead some considerable time before the story opens, and--to quote the
old jest--there was no complaint about a circumstance with which everybody was well satisfied.
The real worry over Stephen was twofold: first, that in life he had been rightly suspected
of being rather more than a bit of a rip, and secondly that his grandson, Philip, the hero
of the story, had what seemed to him good cause for believing that Stephen's more regrettable
tendencies were being repeated in himself. Here, of course, is a theme capable of infinite
varieties of development; the tragedies of heredity have kept novelists and dramatists busy
since fiction began. The trouble is that, all unconsciously, Mr. COMPTON-RICKETT has given
to his hero's struggles a fatally humorous turn. Philip's initial mistake appeared to be the
supposition that safety could be secured by flight. But it has been remarked before now that
Cupid is winged and doth range. Philip dashed into the depths of Devonshire, only to discover
that even there farmers have pretty daughters; seeking refuge in the slums he found that the
exchange was one from the frying-pan to the fire. In short, there was no peace for him, till
the destined heroine.... Well, you can now see whether you are likely to be amused, edified,
or bored by a well-meaning story, told (I should add) with a rather devastating solemnity of style.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. HENRI DOMELIER, the author of Behind the Scenes at German Headquarters (HURST AND BLACKETT),
must also be accounted among the prophets, for he foretold the invasion of Belgium. Before
the War he edited a newspaper in Charleville, and when the Ardennes had been "inundated by
the enemy hordes" and the local authorities had withdrawn to Rethel, he stayed in Charleville
and acted as Secretary to the Municipal Commission. This organisation was recognised by the
Germans, but to be secretary of it was still a dangerous post, and M. MAURICE BARRÈS in eloquent
preface tells us of some of the sufferings that M. DOMELIER had to endure while trying to carry
out his difficult duties. The French who remained in Charleville had more than ample opportunities
of seeing both the EX-KAISER and his eldest son, and M. DOMELIER writes of them with a pen
dipped in gall. No book that I have read puts before one more poignantly the miseries which
the inhabitants of invaded France had to bear during "the great agony." For the most part they
bore them with a courage beyond all praise; but some few, giving way under stress of physical
suffering or moral temptation, forgot their nationality; and these M. DOMELIER makes no pretence
to spare. I think that even those of us who have definitely made up our minds regarding the
Hun and want to read no more about him will welcome this book. For if it is primarily an indictment
of Germans and German methods, it is hardly less a tribute to those who held firm through all
their misery and never gave up hope during the darkest days.

       *       *       *       *       *

