I had many years previously lost a brother--the same whom I have already had occasion to mention
in the earlier part of this letter. Now, at an early stage of the series of sittings that took
place at my house it was intimated that the spirit of this brother was present and wishful
or willing to communicate with me. He did, as was proposed, communicate very freely upon subjects
of all sorts by means of raps under the table and the letters of the alphabet spread upon it--on
all subjects save one. To the often-repeated question, where we had last met in life, I could
get no reply. It was constantly promised to me that I should be answered this question at the
next sitting. Now, it so happened that my wife had conceived, reasonably or unreasonably, doubts
as to the medium's honesty in the matter, and she determined to try him in the matter of this
unanswered question. Talking one day with him in tête-à-tête, she turned the subject of maladies
of the chest, of which they had been speaking, to the special case of her late brother-in-law,
discussing the powerful influence of climate, and remarking that she feared Ostend had been
a very bad place for him. And there she left the matter without any further remark, and without
eliciting any answer from him. This occurred very shortly before the time when Mr. Hume left
my house to accept the hospitality of Mr. Powers. The sittings continued with great frequency
in the house of the latter, and my mother and myself were very frequently present at them.
As before, the soi-disant spirit of my brother Henry announced his presence, and, as before,
I repeated my often-asked question as to the place on earth where he and I had last met. On
this occasion the answer rapped out consisted of the word "Ostend." I smilingly replied, "Spirit,
you know nothing about what you are talking of: you are wrong." Mr. Hume became immediately
very angry, and reproached me vehemently for "interrupting the spirit"--for not waiting for
what he was probably going to say. It was likely enough, he added, that the spirit was about
to say that Ostend was not the place. I said "Pshaw! In that way he might go through the whole
Gazetteer." Thereupon Mr. Hume declared that I was evidently not in a fit frame of mind to
be a sitter at such meetings; that my presence would be likely to mar any results to be expected
from them; and, in short, if only for the sake of those who wished to continue their experiences,
it was necessary that I should withdraw from them. That was the last occasion on which I took
part in a séance under Mr. Hume's mediumship. My mother continued her sittings at the house
of Mr. Powers, and it is fair to record that she there witnessed material phenomena--some of
them closely allied to phenomena only explainable on Spiritualistic theories--of even a more
extraordinary nature than any which had occurred at my house; in which neither she, nor Mr.
Powers or any of his family, nor any of the others of the party, were able to detect any imposture.
And I believe I may add that Mr. Powers fully believed in the genuineness of the phenomena
witnessed. It is also perhaps fair to state that had the answer to my question been "On board
the steamboat going from London to Ostend," the reply would have been correct. How far it is
possible to suppose that the word "Ostend" may have been the first word of an answer about
to be completed in that sense if it had not been interrupted, I leave to the judgment of the
reader.

For some time after this Powers used to recount to me the marvels which were witnessed at his
house. He was not pleased with the medium as an inmate in other respects: he did not form a
favorable opinion of his moral character. I am speaking of matters now many years old, and
I might not have considered it necessary to record these impressions of a very specially upright
and honest man with regard to one who is still before the public were it not that they go to
increase the value of Mr. Powers's testimony to the genuineness of the phenomena which he witnessed,
by showing that his judgment upon the subject was at least in no degree warped by any prejudice
in favor of the miracle-worker.

Meantime, the sculptor, still in the modest tenement which he occupied for so many years in
the Via Romana, was growing in fame and reputation from day to day. A visit to the Studio Powers--or
Pousse, as the ciceroni and valets-de-place called it--was an obligatory part of the tourist's
regular work in "doing" Florence. A large family was, during those prosperous and laborious
years, growing up around him--sons and daughters, most of whom he lived to see settled in life
and to be justly proud of. Death did not altogether pass his threshold by, but he knocked there
but once or twice in all that length of years. At last the time came when the successful artist
felt that his position enabled and justified him in moving from his old quarters to more commodious
and luxurious ones. He had been but a tenant in the Via Romana: he was now to inhabit a house
of his own.

It was the time when Florence was for a few short years enjoying the fallacious and fatal honor
of being the capital of Italy. There were some who from the first were fully convinced that
that honor would be a transitory one. The greater number thought that the will of France and
of her emperor, and the difficulties attending the simultaneous residence of the king of Italy
and the pope within the walls of the same city, would avail to make Florence the capital of
the new kingdom for at least as many years as human prudence could look forward to. The earthquake-like
events which shook down the bases of all such calculations, and enabled Italy to realize her
longing desire to see Rome the capital of the nation, are too well known to need even referring
to. Florence suddenly ceased to be the metropolis of Italy, and the amount of financial ruin
in the case of those who had invested money in building to supply the wants of the capital
was very widespread indeed. And there can be no doubt that the houses built by Powers are at
the present day worth much less than they were at the time he built them, and still less than
they would have been worth had Florence remained the capital. Nevertheless, I do not think
that he would have abstained from building from any considerations of this kind. He built solely
with a view to residence, and in that respect he could hardly have done better than he did.

He did not move very far. His old lodging and studio were, as has been said, a little way within
the Porta Romana, and the villa residence which he built is but two or three minutes' walk
on the outside of it. Immediately outside this Porta Romana, sloping off a little to the left
from the road to Rome, is a magnificent avenue of ilex and cypress conducting to a grand-ducal
villa called the "Poggio Imperiale." To the left again of this avenue, which is perhaps a mile
or somewhat more in length, and between it and the city wall, which in that part of its course
encloses the Boboli Gardens attached to the Palazzo Pitti, is a large extent of hillside, rapidly
rising to the heights crowned by the ancient and storied church of San Miniato, and by the
suburban villages of Arcetri and Pian Guillari. This space was, and had been for time out of
mind, occupied by fields and market-gardens. But when the new fortunes of the City of Flowers
fallaciously seemed to be in the ascendant, it was at once seen that of all the spaces immediately
around Florence which were available for that increase of the city which was expected to be
urgently required, none was more desirable or more favorably circumstanced than this hillside.
A really magnificent carriage-road, ornamented with gardens on either side of it, was led in
well-arranged curves up to San Miniato, and down on the other side of the hill till it reaches
the Arno at the village of Ricorboli. The entire course of this road commands a series of varied
views of the city and the Vale of Arno than which nothing can be conceived more charming. It
is in truth the finest city promenade and drive that I know in Europe. Rome has nothing comparable
to it. The Bois de Boulogne and Hyde Park are, as far as natural beauty goes, tame and flat
in comparison to it. The planning and the execution of it have been alike excellent. The whole
of the space up which the road serpentines has been turned into ornamental gardens, and on
either side of it, and among its lawns and shrubberies, a large number of villa-sites were
reserved to be disposed of to purchasers. Of this singular opportunity Powers was one of the
first to avail himself. He selected with admirable judgment three sites in the immediate neighborhood
of each other--one for a residence for himself, one for that of his eldest son, a married man,
established and doing well as a photographer, and one for that of his eldest daughter and her
husband, Mr. and Mrs. Ibbetson. The friends of the sculptor thus patriarchally establishing
himself said laughingly that the region ought to be called Powerstown. The three houses, each
in its own grounds, were built, and excellently good and comfortable residences they are. Powers
was almost as much in his own element in superintending them as in his studio with mallet and
chisel in hand, as might be surmised. The new studio formed no part of the dwelling-house,
but occupied a separate erection in the grounds. Nor did the artist's love for his art fail
to show itself in the amplitude and excellent adaptation of the building to all the needs of
a studio, properly so called--of work-rooms and exhibition-rooms for the reception of visitors.
A more complete sculptor's residence and establishment it would be difficult to imagine. Alas
for the shortness of the few years that were allowed to him for the enjoyment of it! Long after
the house and the studio were completed, and the marbles all moved thither, Powers was still
indulging in the delight of improving his garden; and his plans for such improvement gave striking
evidence of that genius and passion for mechanical cleverness and achievements of which I have
frequently spoken. He had planned and begun--I think only begun--to execute an artesian well
by means of certain newly-invented systems of boring, the details of which, in the absence
of all workmen who possessed any knowledge whatever on the subject, had to be wholly superintended,
arranged and adapted by himself. He had satisfied himself by observations of his own that water
was to be found at a given depth, and had, I believe, prosecuted the work sufficiently to be
assured that his judgment in this respect was well founded. In connection with this scheme
of the artesian well was a fountain in the garden, which was, I believe, also ultimately brought
to perfection.

In conformity with the convenient continental fashion of ladies naming one day in the week
for the reception of visitors--a plan which enables them to escape from the interruption to
their domestic pursuits on all other days, and which is very generally adopted by those who
have large circles of acquaintance--Mrs. Powers used to open the drawing-rooms of her new house
on every Saturday, and a considerable crowd was sure to be found there from two to six. But
such recent arrivals on the banks of the Arno as paid their respects to Mrs. Powers in the
hope and expectation of seeing the famous sculptor were almost, if not quite, invariably disappointed.
None of the Florentine colony expected to find Powers in the drawing-room on such occasions.
They knew better where to look for him--in his workshop. There he might be found by those who
had brought letters of introduction to him, in his usual workman's garb. Powers never made
the slightest concession to the necessities of receiving "company" on such occasions. There
he was, with his working cap on head, probably in a long light gray coat, not innocent of marble
dust, but often in blouse and apron.

In the latter days, when, though we little thought it, the end was approaching, when the night
of that long day of continuous activity and labor was at hand, he might as frequently have
been found sauntering under the magnificent trees of the Poggio Imperiale avenue in the immediate
vicinity of his own house. Upright in figure and in carriage as ever, and with his eye as bright
as ever, it was difficult to suppose that the venerable and stalwart figure of the old sculptor
was not destined still for years of life and activity. His malady was connected with the respiratory
organs; and a specially painful circumstance of it for his friends was, that the loss of voice,
which made the effort of talking injurious to him, rendered it a selfish and inconsiderate
thing to visit him; for the activity of his mind was still such that in the contact with another
mind he could not abstain from the old familiar intercourse which he had loved so well. Like
the old camel of the Arabian tale, that, having been all its life accustomed to lead the caravan,
died in the effort to keep his old place to the last, Powers, who had been always wont to have
rather the lion's share of conversation, could not resign himself to hear another talk, in
silence. He would talk, and suffered for it afterward. The result was that his friends felt
that they were showing the best consideration for him by staying away.

To look at him, I say, as he would stand in the sunshine at his own gate, it was difficult
to imagine that aught of a very serious nature ailed him. But in the case of a man so habitually
active his sauntering there was a bad sign. He was emphatically one of those men with whom
life and work are the same thing--one whose sun was at the setting when he could work no more,
and who would probably have cared little to survive his capacity for working.

     T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.

CORN.

  To-day the woods are trembling through and through
    With shimmering forms, that flash into my view,
  Then melt in green as dawn-stars melt in blue.
    The leaves that wave against my cheek caress
    Like women's hands; the embracing boughs express
          A subtlety of mighty tenderness;
  The copse-depths into little noises start,
  That sound anon like beatings of a heart,
  Anon like talk 'twixt lips not far apart.
    The beech dreams balm, as a dreamer hums a song,
    Through whose vague sweet float expirations strong
    From lithe young hickories, breathing deep and long
  With stress and urgence bold of inward spring,
        And ecstasy of burgeoning.
    Now, since the dew-plashed road of morn is dry,
    Come daintier smells, linked in soft company,
    Like velvet-slippered ladies pacing by.
              Long muscadines,
  Like Jove's locks curled round foreheads of great pines,
  Breathe out ambrosial passion from their vines.
    I pray with mosses, ferns and flowers shy
    That hide like gentle nuns from human eye,
    To lift adoring odors to the sky.
  I hear faint bridal-sighs of blissful green,
  Dying to kindred silences serene,
  As dim lights melt into a pleasant sheen.
    I start at fragmentary whispers, blown
    From undertalks of leafy loves unknown,
    Vague purports sweet, of inarticulate tone.

  Dreaming of gods, men, nuns and brides, between
  Old companies of oaks that inward lean
  To join their radiant amplitudes of green,
    I slowly move, with ranging looks that pass
    Up from the matted miracles of grass
  Into yon veined complex of space,
  Where sky and leafage interlace
    So close the heaven of blue is seen
    Inwoven with a heaven of green.

  I wander to the zigzag-cornered fence
  Where sassafras, intrenched in brambles dense,
  Contests with stolid vehemence
    The march of culture, setting limb and thorn,
    Like pikes, against the army of the corn.

  There, while I pause, before mine eyes,
  Out of the silent corn-ranks, rise
        Inward dignities
  And large benignities and insights wise,
        Graces and modest majesties.
    Thus, without tilth, I house a wondrous yield;
    Thus, without theft, I reap another's field,
    And store quintuple harvests in my heart concealed.

  See, out of line a single corn-stem stands
  Advanced beyond the foremost of his bands,
    And waves his blades upon the very edge
    And hottest thicket of the battling hedge.
  Thou lustrous stalk, that canst nor walk nor talk,
    Still dost thou type the poet-soul sublime
    That leads the vanward of his timid time,
    And sings up cowards with commanding rhyme--
  Soul calm, like thee, yet fain, like thee, to grow
  By double increment, above, below;
    Soul homely, as thou art, yet rich in grace like thee,
    Teaching the yeomen selfless chivalry,
    That moves in gentle curves of courtesy;
  Soul filled like thy long veins with sweetness tense,
        By every godlike sense
  Transmuted from the four wild elements.
          Toward the empyrean
    Thou reachest higher up than mortal man,
  Yet ever piercest downward in the mould,
        And keepest hold
    Upon the reverend and steadfast earth
        That gave thee birth.
  Yea, standest smiling in thy very grave,
        Serene and brave,
    With unremitting breath
    Inhaling life from death,
  Thine epitaph writ fair in fruitage eloquent,
        Thy living self thy monument.

          As poets should,
  Thou hast built up thy hardihood
  With wondrous-varying food,
    Drawn in select proportion fair
    From solid mould and vagrant air;
  From terrors of the dreadful night,
        And joyful light;
    From antique ashes, whose departed flame
    In thee has finer life and longer fame;
  From wounds and balms,
  From storms and calms,
    From potsherds and dry bones,
        And ruin-stones.
  So to thy vigorous substance thou hast wrought
  Whate'er the hand of Circumstance hath brought;
    Yea, into cool solacing green hast spun
    White radiance hot from out the sun.
  So thou dost mutually leaven
  Strength of earth with grace of heaven;
    So thou dost marry new and old
    Into a one of higher mould;
    So thou dost reconcile the hot and cold,
            The dark and bright,
  And many a heart-perplexing opposite:
              And so,
    Akin by blood to high and low,
  Fitly thou playest out thy poet's part,
  Richly expending thy much-bruised heart
    In equal care to nourish lord in hall
          Or beast in stall:
    Thou took'st from all that thou might'st give to all.

  O steadfast dweller on the selfsame spot
  Where thou wast born, that still repinest not--
  Type of the home-fond heart, the happy lot!--
    Deeply thy mild content rebukes the land
    Whose flimsy homes, built on the shifting sand
  Of trade, for ever rise and fall
  With alternation whimsical,
    Enduring scarce a day,
    Then swept away
  By swift engulfments of incalculable tides
  Whereon capricious Commerce rides.

  Look, thou substantial spirit of content!
  Across this little vale, thy continent,
    To where, beyond the mouldering mill,
    Yon old deserted Georgian hill
  Bares to the sun his piteous aged crest
        And seamy breast,
    By restless-hearted children left to lie
    Untended there beneath the heedless sky,
    As barbarous folk expose their old to die.
  Upon that generous swelling side,
        Now scarified
    By keen neglect, and all unfurrowed save
    By gullies red as lash-marks on a slave,
  Dwelt one I knew of old, who played at toil,
  And dreamed himself a tiller of the soil.
    Scorning the slow reward of patient grain,
    He sowed his soul with hopes of swifter gain,
    Then sat him down and waited for the rain.
  He sailed in borrowed ships of usury--
  foolish Jason on a treacherous sea,
  Seeking the Fleece and finding misery.
    Lulled by smooth-rippling loans, in idle trance
    He lay, content that unthrift Circumstance
    Should plough for him the stony field of Chance.
  Yea, gathering crops whose worth no man might tell,
  He staked his life on a game of Buy-and-Sell,
  And turned each field into a gambler's hell.
    Aye, as each year began,
    My farmer to the neighboring city ran,
  Passed with a mournful anxious face
  Into the banker's inner place;
  Parleyed, excused, pleaded for longer grace,
    Railed at the drought, the worm, the rust, the grass,
    Protested ne'er again 'twould come to pass
    Such troops of ills his labors should harass;
  Politely swallowed searching questions rude,
  And kissed the dust to melt his Dives's mood.
  At last, small loans by pledges great renewed,
    He issues smiling from the fatal door,
    And buys with lavish hand his yearly store
    Till his small borrowings will yield no more.
  Aye, as each year declined,
  With bitter heart and ever-brooding mind
  He mourned his fate unkind.
    In dust, in rain, with might and main,
    He nursed his cotton, cursed his grain,
    Fretted for news that made him fret again,
  Snatched at each telegram of Future Sale,
  And thrilled with Bulls' or Bears' alternate wail--
  In hope or fear alike for ever pale.
    And thus from year to year, through hope and fear,
    With many a curse and many a secret tear,
    Striving in vain his cloud of debt to clear,
                  At last
  He woke to find his foolish dreaming past,
    Beheld his best-of-life the easy prey
    Of quacks and scamps, and all the vile array
          That line the way,
  From thieving statesman down to petty knave;
  Yea, saw himself, for all his bragging brave,
  A gamester's catspaw and a banker's slave.
    Then, worn and gray, and sick with deep unrest,
    He fled away into the oblivious West,
          Unmourned, unblest.

  Old hill! old hill! thou gashed and hairy Lear
  Whom the divine Cordelia of the year,
  E'en pitying Spring, will vainly strive to cheer--
    King, but too poor for any man to own,
    Discrowned, undaughtered and alone,
  Yet shall the great God turn thy fate,
  And bring thee back into thy monarch's state
        And majesty immaculate;
    So, through hot waverings of the August morn,
    A vision of great treasuries of corn
    Thou bearest in thy vasty sides forlorn,
  For largesse to some future bolder heart
  That manfully shall take thy part,
          And tend thee,
          And defend thee,
  With antique sinew and with modern art.

     SIDNEY LANIER.

GENTLEMAN DICK.

They had, all of them, nicknames themselves, for in a Colorado mining-community it was not
difficult to acquire a title, and they called him Gentleman Dick. It was rather an odd name,
to be sure, but it was very expressive, and conveyed much of the prevailing opinion and estimate
of its owner. They laughed when he expressed a desire to join the party in Denver, and Old
Platte looked at his long, delicate hands, so like a woman's, with a smile of rough, good-humored
pity, mingled, perhaps, with a shade of contempt for the habits and occupation that had engendered
such apparent effeminacy. But he pleaded so earnestly and talked with such quiet energy and
confidence of what he could and would do, and moreover had about him so much of that spirit
of subdued bonhomie that always captivates the roughest of the rough, that they relented, took
his money and put it in the "pot," and informed him that he was one of them. Their decision
was not altogether unconnected with the fact that he had given evidence of considerable surgical
skill in his treatment of Mr. Woods, more familiarly known as "Short-card William," who had
been shot a week or so previously over a game of poker by an independent bull-whacker whom
he had attempted to defraud. The sense of the community had sustained the act; and while the
exhibition of his skill in dealing was universally condemned as having been indiscreet under
the circumstances, still he was accounted a live man among them, and the discovery of a surgeon
to dress his wound was hailed with a somewhat general feeling of relief. Had it not been for
the fact that the sobriquet of Gentleman Dick was already conferred and accepted universally
as his name, he certainly would not have escaped that of "Doctor," and as it was, Mr. Woods,
who was profuse as well as profane in his gratitude, insisted upon so calling him. A doctor,
or anything bearing even a resemblance to a member of that sadly-represented profession, was
regarded with a certain degree of reverence among a community whose peculiar habits often gave
rise to pressing and immediate need of surgical attendance. Consequently, Gentleman Dick rapidly
attained an elevated position in their regard, and became a great favorite with Old Platte's
party, although they still looked doubtfully at his slender figure and felt "kind o' bothered"
by the air of gentility and good-breeding which hung around him in spite of the rough miner's
garments that he had chosen to assume. By the time they left Denver for the Blue he was deemed
as indispensable to the company as Old Platte himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

The forest of dark pines and firs that covered both sides of the valley of the Blue grew down
to the bars of the river, which along its banks was thickly grown with wild gooseberry and
raspberry bushes, and piled up here and there with great tangled heaps of driftwood which the
spring floods brought down and left in masses of inextricable confusion along its sides. Back
a little distance from one of these sandy flats, and nestled right in the shadow of the forest's
edge, they built a long rough cabin early in June. In summer-time the spot was a wild and picturesque
one. Green and luxuriant vegetation made a soft and brilliant carpet at the feet of the stately
old pines; huge boulder-like rocks, their edges softened and rounded in the grasp of one of
Agassiz' pre-Adamite glaciers that had ground its icy way down from the melting snow-caps above--rocks
covered with bright lichens and tufts of moss--- lay piled on one another at the foot of the
steep mountain-side; while gnarled cedars twisted around about them, their rough red roots
twining here and there in search of sustenance. Below the cabin a little way lay the bar--Chihuahua
Bar they had christened it, out of deference to "Jones of Chihuahua," whose prospecting-pan
had developed the fact that gold in promising quantities lay beneath it--and a little farther
on the Blue sang merrily in its gravelly bed. Down the river, about two miles, was Blue Bar,
where about two hundred miners had formed a settlement, and where a red-headed Scotchman, who
combined the duties of a self-constituted postmaster with the dispensation of a villainous
article of whisky, kept a lively grocery and provision store.

During the early part of the season they had prospected up along the river, finding gold all
the way, but not in quantities sufficiently large to warrant working. At the place, however,
which they subsequently named Chihuahua (pronounced in the vernacular Chee-waw-waw) the perspicacious
Jones had given it as his opinion, formed after mature deliberation and a sapient examination
of some two or three shovelsful of dirt, that there was a satisfactory "color in that ar bank."
Some hard work of about a week demonstrated that there were excellent diggings there, and then
work was commenced upon it in good earnest. The cabin was built, Gentleman Dick's choice of
location being unanimously approved; two or three trips were made across the "Range" to the
nearest settlement for materials and provisions; and then the real labor began. As they cut
through the heavy bank of mould and gravel, gradually eating a long trench to the bed-rock,
prospects grew better and better. At last, one day a narrow ledge of brittle, shaly rock came
in view, covered with a coating of thick, heavy yellow mud, of which Old Platte gathered a
panful and betook himself down to the river-side. A war-whoop from the direction in which he
had disappeared came ringing through the gooseberry bushes to their ears, and with a responsive
yell and a simultaneous dropping of shovels and picks they all dashed off to his side. He was
discovered in a condition of great excitement, dancing wildly round the pan, in the bottom
of which about half a teaspoonful of coarse yellow nuggets were shining among the black sand.
It was a grand prospect, and with the exception of Gentleman Dick, whose exultation was of
a very mild and reserved order, the proprietors of the Chihuahua Claim behaved in a very undignified
and unseemly way; Thompson and Jones organizing an impromptu sparring-match, and Old Platte
standing indecorously on his head in a neighboring clump of bushes. Sundry war-whoops and divers
indications of activity showed that work of a very lively and energetic character was being
prosecuted that afternoon on the bar; and when the sun sunk to rest behind the purple mountains,
and the blue mists of evening rose in the valley, they had their sluice-boxes and "riffles"
in order, and were ready to commence washing at sunrise.

It did not take very long to clean the ledge, and early in the afternoon the water was shut
off. When it was found that the "riffles" yielded thirteen ounces of gold that would coin eighteen
dollars and a half to the ounce, a firm conviction seemed to settle upon the camp that this
was an occasion which it would be improper to pass over without a thorough and practical acknowledgment
of its importance in the shape of a regular celebration. The gold was weighed and divided,
all sitting in a circle in the middle of the cabin floor, while Old Platte officiated at the
scales with all the gravity and dignity which the responsible position called for.

Mr. McNab's grocery and post-office at Blue Bar was the scene of much excitement and noisy
revelry that evening and all the next day while the gold lasted. Miners who had heard of the
Chihuahua "streak" flocked up to Blue Bar to get the particulars, and naturally joined in the
general feeling of exultation and hilarity that seemed to pervade that community. Old Platte
got terribly drunk, and Thompson and Jones developed the strangest eccentricities of gait,
manner and speech, and finally subsided into a deep slumber in the dust and sand of the main
thoroughfare of the Bar. Gentleman Dick's absence from the festivities was not noticed that
evening, but the next day Thompson, who seemed to feel aggrieved on the subject, announced
his intention of going up to Chihuahua to fetch him down. He left Mr. McNab's on his charitable
mission armed with a bottle of rum, and proceeded up the creek in a condition of moderate intoxication.
That he was somewhat sobered on his arrival at the cabin was perhaps due to the fact that the
cork was fixed very firmly in the neck of his bottle: at any rate, he did not ask his friend
to drink when he found him.

Gentleman Dick had just directed and sealed a letter, and was about to start for the settlement
of Gold Dirt, when Thompson loomed up unsteadily in the doorway, surveyed him inquiringly for
a moment and asked undecidedly and apologetically, "Wass' up? W'ere you goin'?"

Gentleman Dick, apparently overlooking his somewhat dubious condition, told him he had been
writing a letter to some one who lived in the States: he was going to Gold Dirt to mail it,
and a ring of Blue Creek gold was to accompany it to its destination. Thompson said no more,
but stood there in the doorway with McNab's rum under his arm. He did not stir, nor did he
seem to notice the "good-bye" that came down the winding trail through the pines, but remained
there stolid and immovable, gazing vacantly at the writing-paper on the rough table. Suddenly
he straightened himself up to his full height, and taking the bottle from under his arm, held
it out at arm's length and apostrophized it in terms which Mr. McNab would have regarded as
a personal insult, and which the community on the Blue might possibly have resented with a
challenge to mortal combat. His next step, had they witnessed it, would certainly have led
to the conclusion that he was a dangerous lunatic, and one, at that, whose peculiar madness
was of a kind specially objectionable to the residents of Blue Bar. He placed the object toward
which his feelings had undergone so sudden a revulsion carefully on the ground, and seizing
in his hands a huge boulder, he proceeded to let it drop accurately upon it. He oscillated
critically over the fragments, as if to assure himself that the result had been satisfactorily
attained, and then strode rapidly and unsteadily into the forest. How such unsound principles
of economy came to be adopted by him never very clearly appeared; and the problem of his absence
from camp for two whole days, and his subsequent reform upon the subject of whisky, were matters
very freely discussed at McNab's hut, without any definite or reliable result being arrived at.

       *       *       *       *       *

Summer had melted imperceptibly into autumn; and the bright tints that glittered on the mountain-slopes
and through the sturdy undergrowth of the forest told that it in its turn was soon to give
way to winter. Chihuahua Bar was piled with great heaps of boulders and gravel, furrowed here
and there with deep ditches and trenches, and otherwise gave ample evidence of the hard work
that had been done. But, as Old Platte, remarked, "The luck was down on them," and the partners
had very little to show for their long months of toil. Gentleman Dick had worked as hard and
earnestly as the others, and had never been known to utter a word of complaint through the
many hardships and mishaps they endured. But a great change had come over him. No one who saw
him when he joined the party in Denver would have ventured to call him strong or robust, but,
delicate as he was then, he was now a mere shadow by comparison. The change had been more marked
and rapid during the last few weeks. He had seemed to fade gradually away, growing daily weaker
and weaker, until at last a knowledge of his increasing debility forced itself upon the not
very observant faculties of his companions--coming rather as a sense of indefinable uneasiness
on his behalf than any actual apprehension of his real condition. His great expressive eyes
shone out with an unnatural brilliancy from his pale, sunken cheeks, and a deeper shade of
melancholy seemed settling on his naturally thoughtful face. Thompson probably noticed it more
than anybody else, but said nothing, while Old Platte and Jones exchanged ideas on the subject
with a sort of puzzled anxiety, mingled, it might be, with some genuine alarm. They noticed
that the work began to fatigue him more and more, and that he often had to pause in the middle
of it weary and exhausted.

