The plant on which the Cochineal Insect is found, is called the Nopal, a species of Opuntia,
or Prickly Pear, which abounds on all the coasts of the Mediterranean; and is thus described
by Mr. Thompson, in his work entitled, Official Visit to Guatemala; "The nopal is a plant consisting
of little stems, but expanding itself into wide, thick leaves, more or less prickly according
to its different kind: one or two of these leaves being set as one plant, at the distance of
two or three feet square from each other, are inoculated with the cochineal, which, I scarcely
need say, is an insect; it is the same as if you would take the blight off an apple or other
common tree, and rub a small portion of it on another tree free from the contagion, when the
consequence would be, that the tree so inoculated would become covered with the blight; a small
quantity of the insects in question is sufficient for each plant, which in proportion as it
increases its leaves, is sure to be covered with this costly parasite. When the plant is perfectly
saturated, the cochineal is scraped off with great care. The plants are not very valuable for
the first year, but they may be estimated as yielding after the second year, from a dollar
and a half profit on each plant."

The insect is famous for the fine scarlet dye which it communicates to wool and silk. The females
yield the best colour, and are in number to the males as three hundred to one. Cochineal was
at first supposed to be a grain, which name it retains by way of eminence among dyers, but
naturalists soon discovered it to be an insect. Its present importance in dyeing is an excellent
illustration of chemistry applied to the arts; for long after its introduction, it gave but
a dull kind of crimson, till a chemist named Kuster, who settled at Bow, near London, about
the middle of the sixteenth century, discovered the use of the solution of tin, and the means
of preparing with it and cochineal, a durable and beautiful scarlet.

Fine cochineal, which has been well dried and properly kept, ought to be of a grey colour inclining
to purple. The grey is owing to a powder which covers it naturally, a part of which it still
retains; the purple tinge proceeds from the colour extracted by the water in which it has been
killed. Cochineal will keep a long time in a dry place. Hellot says, that he tried some one
hundred and thirty years old, and found it produce the same effect as new.

       *       *       *       *       *

LARGE CHESTNUT-TREE.

There is now in the neigbourhood of Dovercourt, in Essex, upon the estate of Sir T. Gaisford,
a chestnut-tree fifty-six feet in circumference, which flourishes well, and has had a very
good crop of chestnuts for many years.

J.T.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

I'D BE AN ALDERMAN

  I'd be an Alderman, born in the City,
    Where haunches of venison and green turtles meet
    Seeking in Leadenliall, reckless of pity,
    Birds, beast, and fish, that the knowing ones eat
  I'd never languish for want of a luncheon.
    I'd never grieve for the want of a treat;
  I'd be an Alderman, constantly munching,
    Where haunches of venison and green turtles meet.

  Oh! could I wheedle the votes at the vestry,
    I'd have a share of those good sav'ry things;
  Enchained by turkey, in love with the pastry.
    And floating in Champagne, while Bow bells ring.
  Those who are cautious are skinny and fretful,
    Hunger, alas! naught but ill-humour brings;
  I'd be an Alderman, rich with a net full,
    Rolling in Guildhall, whilst old Bow bells ring.

  What though you tell me that prompt apoplexy
    Grins o'er the glories of Lord Mayor's Day,
  'Tis better, my boy, than blue devils to vex ye,
    Or ling'ring consumption to gnaw you away.
  Some in their folly take black-draught and blue-pill,
    And ask ABERNETHY their fate to delay;
  I'd he an Alderman, WAITHMAN'S apt pupil,
    Failing when dinner things are clearing away.

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PROVINCIAL REPUTATION.

I once resided in a country town; I will not specify whether that town was Devizes or Doncaster,
Beverley or Brighton: I think it highly reprehensible in a writer to be personal, and scarcely
more venial do I consider the fault of him who presumes to be local. I will, however, state,
that my residence lay among the manufacturing districts; but lest any of my readers should
be misled by that avowal, I must inform them, that in my estimation all country towns, from
the elegant Bath, down to the laborious Bristol, are (whatever their respective polite or mercantile
inhabitants may say to the contrary), positively, comparatively, and superlatively, manufacturing
towns!

Club-rooms, ball-rooms, card-tables, and confectioners' shops, are the factories; and gossips,
both male and female, are the labouring classes. Norwich boasts of the durability of her stuffs;
the manufacturers I allude to weave a web more flimsy. The stuff of tomorrow will seldom be
the same that is publicly worn to-day; and were it not for the zeal and assiduity of the labourers,
we should want novelties to replace the stuff that is worn out hour by hour.

No man or woman who ever ventures to deviate from the beaten track should ever live in a country
town. The gossips all turn from the task of nibbling one another, and the character of the
lusus naturae becomes public property. I am the mother of a family, and I am known to have
written romances. My husband, in an evil hour, took a fancy to a house at a watering-place,
which, by way of distinction, I shall designate by the appellation of Pumpington Wells: there
we established ourselves in the year 1800.

The manufacturers received us with a great show of civility, exhibiting to us the most recent
stuff, and discussing the merits of the newest fabrications. We, however, were not used to
trouble ourselves about matters that did not concern us, and we soon offended them.

We turned a deaf ear to all evil communications. If we were told that Mr. A., "though fond
of show, starved his servants," we replied, we did not wish to listen to the tale. If we heard
that Mr. B. though uxorious in public, was known to beat his wife in private, we cared not
for the matrimonial anecdote. When maiden ladies assured us that Mrs. C. cheated at cards,
we smiled, for we had no dealings with her; and when we were told that Mrs. D. never paid her
bills, we repeated not the account to the next person we met; for as we were not her creditors,
her accounts concerned us not.

We settled ourselves, much to our satisfaction, in our provincial abode: it was a watering-place,
which my husband, as a bachelor, had frequented during its annual season.

As a watering-place he knew it well. Such places are vastly entertaining to visiters, having
no "local habitation," and no "name"--caring not for the politics of the place, and where,
if any thing displeases them, they may pay for their lodgings, order post-horses, and never
suffer their names to appear in the arrival book again.

But with those who live at watering-places, it is quite another affair. For the first six months
we were deemed a great acquisition. There were two or three sets in Pumpington Wells--the good,
the bad, and the indifferent. The bad left their cards, and asked us to dances, the week we
arrived; the indifferent knocked at our door in the first month; and even before the end of
the second, we were on the visiting lists of the good. We knew enough of society to be aware
that it is impolitic to rush into the embraces of all the arms that are extended to receive
strangers; but feeling no wish to affront any one in return for an intended civility, we gave
card for card; and the doors of good, bad, and indifferent, received our names.

All seemed to infer, that the amicable gauntlet, which had been thrown down, having been courteously
taken up, the ungloved hands were forthwith to be grasped in token of good fellowship; we had
left our names for them, and by the invitations that poured in upon us, they seemed to say
with Juliet--

  "And for thy name, which is no part of thee,
  Take all myself."

No man, not even a provincial, can visit every body; and it seems but fair, that if a selection
is to be made, all should interchange the hospitalities of life with those persons in whose
society they feel the greatest enjoyment.

Many a dinner, therefore, did we decline--many a route did we reject; my husband's popularity
tottered, and the inviters, though they no longer dinned their dinners in our ears, and teazed
us with their "teas," vowed secret vengeance, and muttered "curses, not loud, but deep."

I have hinted that we had no scandalous capabilities; and though slander flashed around us,
we seldom admitted morning visiters, and our street-door was a non-conductor.

But our next door neighbours were maiden ladies, who had been younger, and, to use a common
term of commiseration, had seen better days--by which, I mean the days of bloom, natural hair,
partners, and the probability of husbands.

Their vicinity to us was an infinite comfort to the town, for those who were unable to gain
admittance at our door to disturb our business and desires,

  "For every man has business and desire,
  Such as they are,"

were certain of better success at our neighbours', where they at least could gain some information
about us "from eye-witnesses who resided on the spot."

My sins were numbered, so were my new bonnets; and for a time my husband was pitied, because
"he had an extravagant wife;" but when it was ascertained that his plate was handsome, his
dinner satisfactory in its removes, and comme il faut in its courses, those whose feet had
never been within our door, saw clearly "how it must all end, and really felt for our trades-people."

I have acknowledged that I had written romances; the occupation was to me a source of amusement;
and as I had been successful, my husband saw no reason why he should discourage me. A scribbling
fool, in or out of petticoats, should be forbidden the use of pen, ink, and paper; but my husband
had too much sense to heed the vulgar cry of "blue stocking." After a busy month passed in
London, we saw my new novel sent forth to the public, and then returned to our mansion at Pumpington
Wells.

As we drove up to our door, our virgin neighbours gazed on us, if possible, with more than
their former interest. They wiped their spectacles; with glances of commiseration they saw
us alight, and with unwearied scrutiny they witnessed the removal of our luggage from the carriage.
We went out--every body stared at us--the people we did know touched the hands we extended,
and hastened on as if fearful of infection; the people we did not know whispered as they passed
us, and looked back afterwards; the men servants seemed full of mysterious flurry when we left
our cards at the doors of acquaintances, and the maid-servants peeped at us up the areas; the
shopkeepers came from their counters to watch us down the streets--and all was whispering and
wonder.

I could not make it out; was it to see the authoress? No; I had been an authoress when they
last saw me. Was it the brilliant success of my new work? It could be nothing else.

