"Well, I never prepare a plot. I cannot do it. I have frequently meditated for hours, buried
my head in my hands, closed my eyes, and got ill over it. But no use. I finally gave it up.
What I do is to make three kinds of studies for each novel. The first I call a sketch, viz.,
I determine the dominant idea of the book, and the elements required to develop this idea.
I also establish certain logical connections between one series of facts and another. The next
dossier contains a study of the character of each actor in my work. For the principal ones
I go even further. I enquire into the character of both father and mother, their life, the
influence of their mutual relations on the temperament of the child. The way the latter was
brought up, his schooldays, the surroundings and his associates up to the time I introduce
him in my book. You see, therefore, I sail as close to nature as possible, and even take into
account his personal appearance, health and heredity. My third preoccupation is to study the
surroundings into which I intend to place my actors, the locality and the spot where certain
parts may be acted. I enquire into the manners, habits, character, language, and even learn
the jargon of the inhabitants of such localities.

"I frequently take pencil sketches and measurement of rooms, and know exactly how the furniture
is placed. Finally, I know the appearance of such quarters by night and by day. After I have
collected laboriously all this material, I sit down to my work regularly every morning, and
do not write more than three pages of print a day."

"How long does it take you to produce that?"

"Well, not very long. The subject is so vivid that the work proceeds slowly, but without interruption.
In fact, I hardly ever make any erasures or alterations, and once my sheet is written and laid
aside, I do not look at it again. The next morning I resume the thread, and the story proceeds
to the end by logical progression.

"I work like a mathematician. Before I begin I know into how many chapters the novel shall
be divided. The descriptive parts have an allotted space, and if they are too long for one
chapter I terminate them in another. I try also to give some rest to the mind of the reader,
or rather remove the tension caused by too long and stirring a passage, by interlarding something
which diverts the attention for a time.

"Finally, I repeat, I have no preconceived plot. I do not know at the beginning of a chapter
how it will end. Situations must logically follow one another, that is all."

Of course, after this, the conversation rolled on some of his principal works, particularly
"La Terre."

In reply to the objection taken to that book, one of his arguments is that progress and science
have made of man a being distinct from that of last century, and insisted that nowadays we
must abandon the study of the metaphysical man of years gone by for an enquiry into the physiological
creature of our days. That is my opinion, and it is in defence of this conviction that I worked
for years.

The next subject upon which I thought I might tackle him was the "Debacle."

"How did I prepare my 'Debacle'? Well, in the same way as all my other books. You know I went
over most of the battlefields described by me. Moreover, I received innumerable letters on
the subject. The most interesting ones came from the professors of Paris schools, who, being
left without employment, enlisted. These letters, coming from educated men, contain, without
one exception, the same lamentations, and give similar accounts of privations and suffering.
They all describe how for days they had to go without food, and ragged; and how fast their
numbers were thinned. Each had in his memoirs accounts illustrating the blundering ignorance
of the commanders! I was violently attacked when the 'Debacle' appeared. Everything was criticised
as usual, and many details declared inaccurate. But I ask you whether it is always possible
to be as absolutely accurate in small details in a novel as in a history?

"Some dates have been misplaced, and some details relating to the colour of the troopers' collars
were not right; but criticism of such absurd details cannot affect the treatment and the development
of the subject, and the conclusions arrived at. I am told that Marshal MacMahon is wild against
me, and that he is preparing a reply to my book. It has always been my object to avoid personalities.
I never once accused MacMahon, but the facts prove that he acted ignorantly. History will be
severer, and when those who write it consult documents as I did, they will not treat him with
the deference I used.

"General Gallifet is also my enemy. Do you know why? Because I have not mentioned him."

"How does your 'Debacle' sell now, cher maitre?"

"Not so well as at the beginning, and the cause of it is the Panama scandal. When the unscrupulousness
of a certain class of men was made bare, the initiators of the enquiry were accused by a section
of the nation with want of patriotism. Curiously enough, the same accusation was levelled against
my book, therefore, instead of being thanked for the courage I had of disclosing the evils,
I am punished for it. The same influences acted against me in the last Academy elections. Before
the Panama affair, I was certain to have a chair."

"Will you continue presenting yourself?"

"Certainly, until I get a seat. There is no reason why I should be excluded from that body,
and if I abstain from presenting my candidature, it might be construed as an admission on my
part that I considered justified the action of the academicians against me."

"When is your novel about 'Lourdes' going to appear?"

"Later than you think. I am working at present at Dr. Pascal, which closes my series of the
Rougon Macquart novels."

"Would it be indiscreet to ask you what subject you intend treating this time?"

"No. It will be a philosophical and scientific defence of the principal work of my life--the
twenty volumes of the Rougon Macquarts. You see I attach the greatest importance to this, and
therefore give special attention to my work, which is meant to be a justification of my theories
and hardiesses. After this I'll take 'Lourdes' in hand. 'Lourdes' will be followed by 'Rome,'
and then by 'Paris.' They will form a triptych."

"Namely?"

"Well, in the first I shall try to prove that the great scientific development of our time
has inspired hopes in the mind of all classes, hopes which it has not realised to the satisfaction
of the most impressionable, therefore the most exacting and unreasonable minds. How such minds
have returned with greater conviction to the belief in the existence of something more powerful
than science, a something which can alleviate the evils from which they suffer, or imagine they do.

"Among these there may even be social philanthropists, who may think that divine intercession
is more efficacious to cure the suffering of the people than anarchist theories. In my 'Rome'
I shall treat of the Neo-Catholicism, with its ambitions, its struggle, etc., as distinct from
the pure religious sentiment of the pilgrims of 'Lourdes.'

"Finally, in 'Paris' I shall endeavour to lay bare the corruption and vice which devour that
city; vice and corruption to which the whole civilised world brings its share. I need not say
that these will be written in the shape of novels.

"For 'Lourdes' I have collected all my material. As you know, I followed a pilgrimage, and
was given the kindest assistance by the clergy, who allowed me to consult every document in
their possession. As usual, I receive every day letters from laymen and priests, who spontaneously
supply me with information."

Zola thereupon got up, opened a drawer, and showed me piles of such letters. Among these I
read one from a priest, who seemed convinced that before long Zola would be a convert. I asked
him what he had seen at Lourdes.

"Nothing that I did not expect, considering that before going there I had had long conversations
with eminent specialists in nervous diseases. I saw cures which would be called extraordinary
by such as ignore the curative power of faith in hysteric complaints and its derivatives. But
I did not see limbs straightened or replaced, nor has any monk or priest showed me or even
alluded to such cures.

"But what struck me was that, contrary to what one is made to expect, I did not find among
the clergy that aggressive and ostentatious proselytism. Everything is conducted in a dignified,
quiet, unassuming manner."

Continuing to look among the letters, I picked one from an English lady, expressing the sincere
hope that the "Debacle" would bear fruit, that the lesson it taught would be a warning to France,
and save the nation from the errors it had fallen into during the Empire.

When I had done, Zola assured me that since the "Debacle" he was happy to say that he receives
numerous such letters from England. This shows him that the hostile feeling against him tends
to disappear.

Before withdrawing, I asked him whether he had heard any more of the thief who, assuming the
title of a journalist, had stolen some of his bronzes.

With a laugh, Zola replied in the negative, and explained that he had to thank "Lourdes" for
the theft.

"Since it has become known that I prepare that book, the clerical papers send me their reporters.
I receive them without exception. On this occasion, I was talking to a friend when a card was
presented bearing the title of a small such paper. I requested the servant to show the bearer
in the drawing-room.

"Five minutes later I was with the fellow, who asked a couple of questions. Instead, however,
of waiting for complete information, which I volunteered to give, he very politely withdrew,
and only the next day did I discover that he had removed valuables for about 700 francs."

For how long I might have engaged the great and amiable novelist in conversation I don't know;
but at this point, having listened to him for more than an hour and a half, I rose to leave.

And now that the heavy door has closed behind me, shall I attempt to compose a picture of Zola
as I have seen him there in his room in his warm, many-pocketed Tyrolese jacket, braided with
green, and buttoned up to the throat? Perhaps it is unnecessary, for his features must by this
time be familiar to almost all.

Like all Southerners, Zola helps out his voice with frequent gestures; but he has none of the
exuberant eloquence of his race. In society he is still, to a certain degree, and must always
remain the victim of bashfulness; and his one attempt at public speaking was a complete failure.
He has in him nothing of the boulevardier, and he is happy only when at work. Enforced idleness
would mean misery to him.

People I Have Never Met.

BY SCOTT RANKIN.

     -----

RUDYARD KIPLING.

An Ethiopian Cricket Match.

BY EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEO. HUTCHINSON.

After the "Rhine" had been anchored in the harbour of St. Thomas, West Indies, for the space
of two days, our First Officer, more generally known in these records as the Model Man, received
a rather remarkable communication. It was a letter from a black sportsman, who issued a challenge
to our ship on behalf of a local club. This note reminded the Model Man of a most successful
cricket match in the past, when an eleven from the "Rhine" was victorious; and it suggested
that, during the present visit of our vessel, a return match might be played. We talked the
matter over, and I said:

"Of course you will accept."

But the Treasure answered:

"You see there is always one great difficulty with black cricketers. They have a theory you
cannot play the game properly in clothes, and they get themselves up for a match much the same
as we should if we were going swimming."

"Why, last time we played," continued the Model Man, "only one man had anything you could fairly
call raiment. He came on to the pitch with what he regarded as a pair of cocoanut-fibre trousers,
and his team made him captain upon the strength of them."

I said:

"If they prefer to play undraped, I don't see that it much matters to us."

"Not personally, but a mixed audience cannot be expected to stand it," replied the Treasure.
"We play cricket in St. Thomas upon a very public and central piece of ground, and, at one
time, everybody used to turn out and watch the matches; but now, owing to the barbarous reasons
I have given you, cricket has fallen into disrepute. Of course, to see an eleven taking the
field in a state of nature makes dead against civilisation and human progress."

Finally, the Model Man wrote to say that it would give him great pleasure to bring a team to
the ground upon the following morning if the local talent promised to wear clothes. "My eleven
will absolutely refuse to play against anybody in the nude," he wound up.

An hour later a negro in a boat paddled out to us with an answer. He hailed us, and we asked
him if his people would accept our terms.

"Yes, massa, we all put fings on, but we much sooner play cricket widdout."

"Nonsense," shouted back the Model Man. "Cricket is a civilised game, and must be followed
in a civilised way, or not at all. We will be on the ground at ten o'clock."

The messenger rowed off, and a great discussion began as to the constitution of our team. Everybody
wanted to go to the match, and sit in the shade and look on and criticise, but no one much
cared about playing. The Captain of the "Rhine" absolutely refused, to begin with. He said:

"I would do anything for my officers--anything in reason; but cricket is out of the question.
I shall, however, be on the ground with some ladies. A good appreciative audience is everything
in these cases. Moreover, I will umpire if the tide turns against us."

The Treasure only consented to play after much pressure. He said:

"You know what the wicket is like; it's simply mountainous, and black men have no control over
their bowling. For you medium-sized chaps it may be comparatively safe, but bowling at me is
like bowling at a haystack--you cannot miss. When I go in, the blacks never bother about the
stumps, but just let fly at random on the chance of winging me. Last match here, I hit their
crack fast bowler all over the island, and he got mad at last, and gave up attempting to bowl
me, but just tried to kill me."

"You scored off him, though," said our Fourth Officer, who remembered the incident.

"I did," admitted the Treasure. "I slapped one straight back, as hard as ever I could lay in
to it, and he funked it, and tried to get out of the way and failed. I nearly knocked a limb
off him, and then he abandoned the ball, and went and sulked and chattered to himself in the
deep field."

The Doctor said it would give him great pleasure to play, but he added that he should feel
very averse to bowling against anybody with nothing on. Then the Model Man answered:

"You need not fear. The negroes are very particular about pads and such things. They don't
wear shoes, for nothing could hurt their feet, but they never dream of batting without leg-guards,
because a nigger's shins are his weak spot. These fellows are not much good at cricket after
you have once hit them hard. Either they get cross and throw up the whole thing, and leave
the ground and go home to their families, or else they become frightened and servile. I have
known them almost beg for mercy before each ball."

"You'll play, of course," said the Fourth Officer to me.

"Certainly, if you will," I answered. Then he replied:

"I shall undoubtedly play. I'm not a man who does much with the bat, but my bowling is rather
out of the common. I have a natural leg-break which baffles fellows frightfully. Why, there
was a question raised once about playing me for my county."

I did not ask him which county, because one should never goad a willing horse. The Fourth Officer
had been in a thoroughly mendacious vein ever since we left St. Kitts; the fault grew upon
him, and now he began to utter transparent inaccuracies at all hours, from sheer love of them.

After much argument and conversation, our team was finally selected, the last man chosen being
a black stoker of great size and strength.

"I regard him as a speculation," explained the Captain of our side; "either he will get out
first ball or make a hundred. There are no half-measures with him."

As we approached the ground on the following morning, our Model Man confided to me a great
source of anxiety. This was the fielding. He said:

"You see, men don't mind batting, but they get very unsportsmanlike when it comes to going
out into the field. Some actually hide, or pretend they have engagements; others feign illness
and retire; others, again, salve their miserable consciences by paying a negro a shilling to
go and field for them. I only mention this. I know you're not the man to do such things; but,
between ourselves, I fear the Doctor is just a sort of chap to escape fielding. There are others
also I must keep an eye upon. Being captain of a scratch cricket team in the Tropics is no
light task, I can tell you."

A considerable crowd had gathered to see the conflict. The negroes sat and lolled round the
ground, while, behind them, buggies and horsemen were drawn up. Conspicuous in that gay throng
appeared the Captain of the "Rhine," seated on a brown horse, amid female equestrians. Beyond
the audience rose a belt of tamarind and flamboyant trees, the latter with gigantic green and
brown seed-pods hanging from their branches; and above these woods, sloping upwards to the
blue sky, extended the hills, with winding roads, visible here and there through the foliage
that covered them, and with many a flagstaff and white cottage scattered upon their sides.

The ground itself suggested golf rather than cricket. Here and there a little dried-up grass
occurred, but it collected in lonely tufts, between which extended great ravines and hillocks
and boulders and patches of desolation. Upon a barren spot in the middle, the wickets had been
pitched. When we arrived, they appeared to be an object of no little interest to sundry goats.
These beasts evidently regarding the stumps as some strange new form of vegetation, sprang
up in a single night from the arid soil, sauntered round them enquiringly, and a shabby he-goat,
braver than his companions, nibbled the bails.

Our opponents, adequately attired, had arrived. They constituted a motley, good-humoured gathering
in all shades. One, John Smith, a genial hybrid, commanded them, and presently a great shout
arose, when it transpired that he had secured choice of innings. The Doctor said, in a tone
of reproof:

"Hang it, John, you've only won the toss. You couldn't make a bigger row if you'd won the match."

"Great fing to go in fus, sar," explained John; "we go in fus now, when we's fresh."

Then the Model Man led out his warriors.

I sauntered across the pitch with the Treasure, and examined its peculiarities. We were discussing
a curious geological formation, midway between the wickets, when our Fourth Officer approached
in some glee at a great discovery. He had found a little hill, rather wide of the stumps, on
one side, and he explained that whenever he dropped a ball on this elevation, he must bowl
an Ethiop.

"You see, my natural leg-break will take the ball dead into the wicket every time," he said.

We hoped it might be so; and he begged us to keep the thing a profound secret, because, as
he said, if it got about that we were going to utilise this hill to such an extent, the enemy
would probably send out and have it removed, or alter the pitch.

After the goats cleared away, and the juvenile spectators driven back a trifle, our Model Man
arranged his field. More correctly speaking, the field arranged itself. Indeed, our team hardly
proved as amenable as might have been wished. The Doctor insisted on taking long-leg and long-oft.

"Why?" asked his Captain, looking rather distrustfully at a buggy with some red parasols in
it, which would be extremely close to the Doctor at long-leg.

"It isn't that, old chap," replied our physician, cheerfully, following the Model Man's eye.
"In fact, I'm not sure if I even know those girls. I only suggested a place in the long field
because I'm a safe catch. That's important."

So he had his way.

Meantime, the Treasure found some other parasols--white ones--and placed himself within easy
chatting distance. Investigation proved that the white parasols were protecting the Enchantress
and her mother. The Model Man said that he might just as well be on the ship as there. So he
ordered his man up to take the wicket. The Treasure came reluctantly, and absolutely declined
to keep wicket. He declared that it was simple murder to make a person of his size attempt
such a thing on such a ground.

He led me aside privately, and said:

"Look here, you know that walking-stick of mine, manufactured from a shark's backbone--the
one you are always worrying me to give you? Well, I will, when we go back to the ship, if you'll
take the wicket. If you fall at your post, then your heirs shall have it."

I closed on this bargain promptly, and while I dressed up in all sorts of life-saving inventions
used at cricket, the Treasure took an unobtrusive, circuitous route back to the white parasols.

John Smith himself and another negro, who was said to be related to him by marriage, came in
first. They were padded up to the eyes, and evidently felt the importance of their position.
Then a black umpire said: "Play, gem'men," and our Fourth Officer started with his world-famed,
natural leg-break. He bowled three wides in succession as a preliminary. It is not easy to
bowl wides underhand, but that Fourth Officer managed it; and I began to understand why, after
all, his county had determined to struggle along without him.

"What's the matter, old man?" asked our Captain, who was fielding at short-slip.

"It's all right, old chap; you wait," answered the Fourth Officer, full of confidence.

"Yes, quite so, but they count one against us every time. I didn't know whether you knew it,"
explained the Model Man.

Meantime the bowler made further futile attempts to drop the ball upon the mound he had discovered.
At last he actually did do so, but instead of breaking in and taking a wicket, as we, who were
in the secret, hoped, the batsman got hold of it, and hit it high and hard to long-leg. All
eyes turned to see if the Doctor's estimate of his own powers at a catch was justified. But
he had disappeared entirely. He had not even left a substitute. Everybody shouted with dismay,
and then the Doctor suddenly bounded on to the field. He distinctly came out of the buggy,
from between the red parasols. If he had not actually known those girls, he must have introduced
himself, or prevailed upon somebody else to do so. He tore into the scene of action, looking
for the ball.

"It's in the air, you fool," yelled a dozen voices. Then it fell within a yard of the Doctor.
A child could have caught it. We were all quite unsettled. The Model Man said:

"I'm not a bit surprised--it's just what I expected."

And the Fourth Officer said:

"I don't really see what good it is my bowling for catches at long-leg if there's no long-leg."

And the Doctor said:

"Wouldn't have done it for money. Hadn't the faintest idea you'd started. I saw you bowling
balls all over the place, miles away from the wicket, and I thought you were merely practising."
Which was rather an unpleasant thing for the Fourth Officer to hear.

Then the game steadied down and proceeded. Our Captain took the ball, after the underhand expert
had got a few within sight of the wicket, and so finished his over. The Model Man was much
more successful, for he clean-bowled a negro with his third delivery. It pitched in a sort
of mountain-pass, about ten feet from the wicket; then it branched off to the right and hit
a stone, and came back again, and finally took the off stump. I don't see how anybody alive
could have played it. The batsman retired utterly bewildered, and the Model Man assured me
he had never sent down a better ball.

A slogger came in next, and made runs rather rapidly, but nothing much happened until the Fourth
Officer's third over. Then he fell foul of me, and took exception to my method of keeping the
wicket. He was being hit about pretty generally, and had become very hot, so, at another time,
I should not have retorted upon him; but, when he spoke, I was hot too, and being hit about
also, so I answered without deliberation. He said:

"Can't you even try to stump them?"

And I replied:

"I might, if my arms were ten feet long."

Then he said:

"You've had dozens of chances. I always want a wicket-keeper for my bowling."

Whereupon I answered:

"You want twenty--in a row. One's no good."

He said:

"You don't like standing up to my fast ones, that's the truth."

And I responded:

"Oh, bless you, I'd stand up to them all right, if I knew where to stand. A wicket-keeper's
supposed to keep the wicket, not run all over the ground after wides."

During this unseemly argument, the Model Man, the Treasure, and the Doctor were all having
an unpleasantness on their own account. The Doctor was imploring our Captain to take himself
off and let somebody else bowl. He said: "Can't you see they've collared you? They've scored
twenty runs. Don't think that I want to go on. Far from it. I'm only speaking for the good
of the side."

But the Model Man refused to leave off bowling for anybody. He emphatically denied that they
had collared him. Then he changed the subject, and turned upon the Treasure, and asked him
where he supposed he was fielding.

The Treasure answered:

"This is mid-on. I'm all right."

"You may think it's mid-on, but it isn't," shouted back the worried Model Man. "I've no doubt
you're all right," he continued, bitterly, "but you're no sportsman."

After twenty more runs had been scored, the Fourth Officer unexpectedly and frankly admitted
that he was not in form. He relinquished the ball, and said he had the makings of a sunstroke
about his head, and went off to field among a few friends in a patch of shade under a tree,
where all kinds of refreshments were being sold. Then our Captain held a consultation, and
determined to try a complete change in the attack. He called upon the Doctor and the Treasure,
and told them just to bowl quietly and carefully, and as straight as possible.

The Treasure started with yorkers; which was about the most effective thing he could have done,
for, whenever he got one on the wicket, it bowled a black man. Two negroes, including the slogger,
fell to him in his first over. Then the Doctor tried his hand, and began by being absurdly
particular about the field. He put five men in the slips, and then started with terrifically
fast full pitches to leg. A good player would have hit one and all of these right out of the
island into the sea, but the people who were now at the wickets merely got out of the way,
and let the Doctor's deliveries proceed to the boundary for three byes each.

Upon this he insulted me, as the Fourth Officer had done before him. He said:

"Do stand up to them, old man."

I said:

"Why should I? I'm out to enjoy myself. I'm a human being, not a target. Besides, long-stop
will lose interest in the game if he has nothing to do."

"They don't have long-stops in first-class cricket," grumbled the Doctor. "You've got no proper
pride."

Then I said:

"Of course, if you are mistaking this display for first-class cricket, it's no good arguing
with you."

In his second over the Doctor bowled a shade straighter, and began knocking the batsmen about,
and hurting them and frightening them. If they had only kept in front of the wicket, and put
their bats between their legs out of the way, they might have been safe enough, but they dashed
nervously about and tried to escape; and the ball would shoot and hit their toes, or rise and
threaten their heads, or break back into their stomachs. Then the bowler got a man "retired
hurt," and a regular panic set in.

"I'm keeping down the run-getting, anyhow," said the elated Doctor.

"Yes, and you'll have to mend all these local celebrities for nothing after the match," replied
our Treasure.

The latter had taken several more wickets, and now the score stood at sixty, with three further
blacks to bat. About this time I made an appeal to the umpire upon a question of stumping a
man, but he had his back turned and was buying a piece of sugarcane. He apologised profusely.
He said:

"I'se too sorry, Massa, jus' too sorry, but I'se dam hungry, Sar."

Hungry! Whoever heard of an umpire being hungry? Thirsty they may be, and generally are, but
hunger is a paltry plea to raise.

Soon afterwards, our black stoker made two brilliant catches, one after the other, the Treasure
quickly bowled their last man, and the innings closed for seventy-three runs.

Then the rival teams scattered through St. Thomas for luncheon, the spectators dispersed, and
the goats had the cricket ground all to themselves until the afternoon.

Some lively betting took place during our meal. The Model Man was gloomy, and doubted the ability
of his eleven to make the necessary score on such a wicket; but the Doctor appeared extremely
sanguine, and the Fourth Officer actually guaranteed half the runs himself. He said:

"Though not a finished bat, yet it often happens that I come off with the willow when I fail
with the leather."

It struck me that if his success with one was proportionate to his failure with the other,
there seemed just reason for hoping he would get into three figures that afternoon.

Our Captain grew very anxious about the order of going in. Finally, he determined to start
with the black stoker and me. He said:

"You play steadily and cautiously and let him hit. If it chances to be his day, we may, after
all, win with ten wickets in hand. Stranger things have happened at cricket."

"Not many," I replied; "but we will do our best."

Our best, unfortunately, did not amount to much. The match was resumed at half-past three,
before an increased gathering of onlookers; and three distinct rounds of applause greeted the
gigantic stoker and me as we marched to the wickets. It proved a fortunate thing that we got
the applause then, because we might have missed it later. My own innings, for instance, did
not afford the smallest loophole for enthusiasm at any time.

