But, again, the things really and essentially good in their very nature and inseparable qualities
are those which, in the estimation of the mere world, are held in no account whatsoever. What
the bible chiefly esteems, and the world wholly neglects, are spiritual blessings,--the good
things of the soul of man, "the precious things of heaven, even of the everlasting hills."
Those precious things, the goodwill of him who is the great I AM--the peace of God which passeth
all understanding--the luxury of promoting the good of man and the glory of God;--still more,
the pardon of sin, through faith in the atonement of Jesus Christ--a gradual advancement in
true holiness--a growing fitness and longing desire for the future blessedness of the saints,
and a final admission and "abundant entrance into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour,"
the "inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away;"--these are truly to the
world but as a dream, a fancy, a cunningly-devised fable; but, to the mind of the Christian,
stand for everything truly and substantially good. They are in all his plans first and foremost,
and nearest and dearest to his heart. They are as necessary to him in his calculation and account
of human happiness, as profit and pleasure are to his neighbours around. Wealth may be good,
health still better, kindly affections and attached friends the best of earthly boons; but
the favour of God, the acquisition of his image, the means of grace, and the hope of glory,
are to him sovereign and above all. He weighs well the nature, and "remembers the end" of all
that is called good, and so "does not amiss."

II. For, secondly, he finds that, while we so do, and so consider, "all things work together
for good to those that love God." There is, first, on the mind of the Christian that secret
influence in the very disposition of love to God, which will of itself turn to good every thing
that comes from the God whom we love, and the Saviour on whom we fully and implicitly rely.
And there is, secondly, a full disposition on the part of our heavenly Father so to order and
direct every event which befals his loving and attached children, as shall be found at last
to have answered the ends of sovereign wisdom and divine mercy.

In the first instance, the tendency, on our own part, of love to the great and good God will
be this, namely, to turn all that befals us to an instrument of good. As, in the healthy body,
food of very different descriptions may yet all turn to nourishment, and minister to health
and bodily strength; so, in the healthy mind, purified and strengthened by the grace of God's
Holy Spirit, every thing that meets it is converted to its advantage, and adds in some way
to its improvement and its happiness. There is ever a colour cast upon outward circumstances
from the complexion of the inward soul. The vain man, on his part, the ambitious, the sensual,
the gainful, well know how to turn all to the advancement of their sinful objects; and no less
does the good man turn all to the enlargement of his goodness, and the lover of his God to
the increase and exercise of that love. Viewing every thing in the glass, or by the lamp of
God's word, he ingeniously, so to speak, finds in every thing a reason for loving and fearing,
serving and obeying God. Every event works for his good, because he is resolved it shall do
so; and every result satisfies, pleases, rejoices him, because he is persuaded it ought to
do so. Loving God, he has a confidence that he is beloved of God; and then, feeling himself
in a world made by God, and proceeding forward under his guidance and permission, he never
will believe that any thing falls out in it but what is intended to make him both good and
happy.