    "Many a man has asked me why neither side boarded,--and, in fact,
    there is a popular impression that Jones took our ship by
    boarding, as he did not. As to that, such questions are easier
    asked than answered. This is to be said, however: about ten
    o'clock, an English officer, who had commanded the Union
    letter-of-marque, which Jones had taken a few days before, came
    scrambling through one of our ports from the Richard. He went up
    aft to Captain Pearson at once, and told him that the Richard was
    sinking, that they had had to release all her prisoners (and she
    had hundreds) from the hold and spar-deck, himself among them,
    because the water came in so fast, and that, if we would hold on a
    few minutes more, the ship was ours. Every word of this was true,
    except the last. Hearing this, Captain Pearson--who, if you
    understand, was over my head, for he kept the quarter-deck almost
    throughout--hailed to ask if they had struck. He got no answer,
    Jones in fact being at the other end of his ship, on his quarter,
    pounding away at our main-mast. Pearson then called for boarders;
    they were formed hastily, and dashed on board to take the prize.
    But the Richard had not struck, though I know some of her men had
    called for quarters. Her men were ready for us,--under cover,
    Captain Pearson says in his despatch,--Jones himself seized a pike
    and headed his crew, and our men fell back again. One of the
    accounts says we tried to board earlier, as soon as the vessels
    were made fast to each other. But of this I knew nothing.

    "Meanwhile Jones's people could not stay on his lower deck,--and
    could not do anything, if they had stayed there. They worked their
    way above. His main deck (of twelves) was fought more
    successfully, but his great strength was on his upper deck and in
    his tops. To read his own account, you would almost think he
    fought the battle himself with his three quarter-deck cannon, and
    I suppose it would be hard to overstate what he did do. Both he
    and Captain Pearson ascribe the final capture of the Serapis to
    this strange incident.

    "The men in the Richard's tops were throwing hand-grenades upon
    our decks, and at last one fellow worked himself out to the end of
    the main-yard with a bucket filled with these missiles, lighted
    them one by one, and threw them fairly down our main hatchway.
    Here, as our ill luck ordered, was a row of our eighteen-gun
    cartridges, which the powder-boys had left there as they went for
    more,--our fire, I suppose, having slackened there:--cartridges
    were then just coming into use in the navy. One of these grenades
    lighted the row, and the flash passed--bang--bang--bang--back to
    me. Oh, it was awful! Some twenty of our men were fairly blown to
    pieces. There were other men who were stripped naked, with nothing
    on but the collars of their shirts and their wristbands. Farther
    aft there was not so much powder, perhaps, and the men were
    scorched or burned more than they were wounded. I do not know how
    I escaped, but I do know that there was hardly a man forward of my
    guns who did escape,--some hurt,--and the groaning and shrieking
    were terrible. I will not ask you to imagine all this,--in the
    utter darkness of smoke and night below-decks, almost every
    lantern blown out or smashed. But I assure you I can remember it.
    There were agonies there which I have never trusted my tongue to
    tell. Yet I see, in my journal, in a boy's mock-man way, this is
    passed by, as almost nothing. I did not think so or feel so, I can
    tell you.

    "It was after this that the effort was made to board. I know I had
    filled some buckets of water from our lee ports, and had got some
    of the worst hurt of my men below, and was trying to understand
    what Brooks, who was jammed, but not burned, thought we could do,
    to see if we could not at least clear things enough to fight one
    gun, when boarders were called, and he left me. Cornish, who had
    really been captain of the other gun, was badly hurt, and had gone
    below. Then came the effort to board, which, as I say, failed; and
    that was really our last effort. About half-past ten, Captain
    Pearson struck. He was not able to bring a gun to bear on the
    Alliance, had she closed with us; his ship had been on fire a
    dozen times, and the explosion had wholly disabled our main
    battery, which had been, until this came, our chief strength. But
    so uncertain and confused was it all, that I know, when I heard
    the cry, 'They've struck,' I took it for granted it was the
    Richard. In fact, Captain Pearson had struck our flag with his own
    hands. The men would not expose themselves to the fire from the
    Richard's tops. Mr. Mayrant, a fine young fellow, one of Jones's
    midshipmen, was wounded in boarding us after we struck, because
    some of our people did not know we had struck. I know, when
    Wallis, our first lieutenant, heard the cry, he ran
    up-stairs,--supposing that Jones had struck to us, and not we to
    him.

    "It was Lieutenant Dale who boarded us. He is still living, a fine
    old man, at Philadelphia. He found Captain Pearson on the lee of
    our quarter-deck again, and said,--

    "'Sir, I have orders to send you on board the ship along-side.'

    "Up the companion comes Wallis, and says to Captain Pearson,--

    "'Have they struck?'

    "'No, Sir,' said Dale,--'the contrary: he has struck to us.'

    "Wallis would not take it, and said to Pearson,--

    "'Have you struck, Sir?'

    "And he had to say he had. Wallis said, 'I have nothing more to
    say,' and turned to come down to us, but Dale would not let him.
    Wallis said he would silence the lower-deck guns, but Dale sent
    some one else, and took them both aboard the Richard. Little
    Duval--a volunteer on board, not yet rated as midshipman--went
    with them. Jones gave back our captain's sword, with the usual
    speech about bravery,--but they quarrelled awfully afterwards.

    "I suppose Paul Jones was himself astonished when daylight showed
    the condition of his ship. I am sure we were. His ship was still
    on fire: ours had been a dozen times, but was out. Wherever our
    main battery could hit him, we had torn his ship to
    pieces,--knocked in and knocked out the sides. There was a
    complete breach from the main-mast to the stern. You could see the
    sky and sea through the old hulk anywhere. Indeed, the wonder was
    that the quarter-deck did not fall in. The ship was sinking fast,
    and the pumps would not free her. For us, our jib-boom had been
    wrenched off at the beginning; our main-mast and mizzentop fell as
    we struck, and at day-break the wreck was not cleared away. Jones
    put Lieutenant Lunt on our vessel that night, but the next day he
    removed all his wounded, and finally all his people, to the
    Serapis, and at ten the Poor Richard went to the bottom. I have
    always wondered that your Naval Commissioners never named another
    frigate for her.

    "And so, my dear boy, I will stop. I hope in God, it will never be
    your fate to see such a fight, or any fight, between an English
    and an American frigate.

    "We drifted into Holland. Our wounded men were sent into hospital
    in the fort of the Texel. At last we were all transferred to the
    French Government as prisoners, and that winter we were exchanged.
    The Serapis went into the French navy, and the only important
    result of the affair in history was that King George had to make
    war with Holland. For, as soon as we were taken into the Texel,
    the English minister claimed us of the Dutch. But the Dutch
    gentlemen said they were neutrals, and could not interfere in the
    Rebel quarrel. "Interfere or fight," said England,--and the first
    clause of the manifesto which makes war with Holland states this
    grievance, that the Dutch would not surrender us when asked for.
    That is the way England treats neutrals who offer hospitality to
    rebels."

So ends the letter. I suppose the old gentleman got tired of writing. I have observed that
the end of all letters is more condensed than the beginning. Mr. Weller, indeed, pronounces
the "sudden pull-up" to be the especial charm of letter-writing. I had a mind to tell what
the old gentleman saw of Kempenfelt and the Royal George, but this is enough. As Denis Duval
scrambles across to Paul Jones's quarter-deck, at eleven o'clock of that strange moonlight
night, he vanishes from history.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FUTURE SUMMER.

    Summer in all! deep summer in the pines,
    And summer in the music on the sands,
    And summer where the sea-flowers rise and fall
    About the gloomy foreheads of stern rocks
    And the green wonders of our circling sphere.

    Can mockery be hidden in such guise,
    To peep, like sunlight, behind shifting leaves,
    And dye the purple berries of the field,
    Or gleam like moonlight upon juniper,
    Or wear the gems outshining jewelled pride?
    Can mockery do this, and we endure
    In Nature's rounded palace of the world?

    Where, then, has fled the summer's wonted peace?
    Sweeter than breath borne on the scented seas,
    Over fresh fields, and brought to weary shores,
    It should await the season's worshipper;
    But as a star shines on the daisy's eye,
    So shines great Conscience on the face of Peace,
    And lends it calmer lustre with the dew:
    When that star dims, the paling floweret fades!

    Yet there be those who watch a serpent crawl
    And, blackening, sleep within a blossom's heart,
    Who will not slay, but call their gazing "Peace."
    Even thus within the bosom of our land
    Creeps, serpent-like, Sedition, and hath gnawed
    In silence, while a timid crowd stood still.

    O suffering land! O dear long-suffering land,
    Slay thou the serpent ere he slime the core!
    Take thou our houses and amenities,
    Take thou the hand that parting clings to ours,
    And going bears our heart into the fight;
    Take thou, but slay the serpent ere he kill!

    Now, as a lonely watcher on the strand,
    Hemmed by the mist and the quick coming waves,
    Hears but one voice, the voice of warning bell,
    That solemn speaks, "Beware the jaws of death!"
    Death on the sea, and warning on the strand!
    Such is our life, while Summer, mocking, broods.

    O mighty heart! O brave, heroic soul!
    Hid in the dim mist of the things that be,
    We call thee up to fill the highest place!
    Whether to till thy corn and give the tithe,
    Whether to grope a picket in the dark,
    Or, having nobly served, to be cast down,
    And, unregarded, passed by meaner feet,
    Or, happier thou, to snatch the fadeless crown,
    And walk in youth and beauty to God's rest,--
    The purpose makes the hero, meet thy doom!

    We call to thee, where'er thy pillowed head
    Rests lonely for the brother who has gone,
    To fix thy gaze on Freedom's chrysolite,
    Which rueful fate can neither crack nor mar,
    And, hand in hand indissolubly bound
    To thy next fellow, hand and purpose one,
    Stretch thus, a living wall, from the rock coast
    Home to our ripe and yellow heart of the West,
    Impenetrable union triumphing.

    The solemn Autumn comes, the gathering-time!
    Stand we now ripe, a harvest for the Right!
    That, when fair Summer shall return to earth,
    Peace may inhabit all her sacred ways,
    Lap in the waves upon melodious sands,
    And linger in the swaying of the corn,
    Or sit with clouds upon the ambient skies,--
    Summer and Peace brood on the grassy knolls
    Where twilight glimmers over the calm dead,
    While clustered children chant heroic tales.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEMOCRACY AND THE SECESSION WAR.

The interest which foreign peoples take in our civil war proceeds from two causes chiefly,
though there are minor causes that help swell the force of the current of feeling. The first
of these causes is the contemplation of the check which has been given by the war's occurrence
to our march to universal American dominion. For about seventy-two years our "progress," as
it was called, was more marvellous than the dreams of other nations. In spite of Indian wars,
of wars with France and England and Mexico, of depredations on our commerce by France and England
and Barbary, of a currency that seemed to have been created for the promotion of bankruptcy
and the organization of instability, of biennial changes in our tariffs and systems of revenue,
of competition that ought to have been the death of trade,--in spite of these and other evils,
this country, in the brief term of one not over-long human life, increased in all respects
at a rate to excite the gravest fears in the minds of men who had been nursed on the balance-of-power
theory. A new power had intruded itself into the old system, and its disturbing force was beyond
all calculation. Between the day on which George Washington took the Presidential oath and
the day when South Carolina broke her oath, our population had increased from something like
three millions to more than thirty-one millions; and in all the elements of material strength
our increase had far exceeded our growth in numbers. When the first Congress of the old Union
met, our territory was confined to a strip of land on the western shore of the Atlantic,--and
that territory was but sparsely settled. When the thirty-sixth Congress broke up, our territory
had extended to the Pacific, on which we had two States, while other communities there were
preparing to become States. It did seem as if Coleridge's "august conception" was about to
become a great fact. To all appearance in 1860, there would be a hundred millions of freemen
here, and not far from twenty millions of slaves, at the close of the nineteenth century; and
middle-aged men were not unreasonable in their expectation of seeing the splendid spectacle.
The rate of increase in population that we had known warranted their most sanguine hopes. Such
a nation,--a nation that should grow its own food, make its own cloths, dig or pick up its
own gold and silver and quicksilver, mine its own coal and iron, supply itself, and the rest
of the world too, with cotton and tobacco and rice and sugar, and that should have a mercantile
tonnage of not less than fifteen millions, and perhaps very much more,--such a nation, we say,
it was reasonable to expect the United States would become by the year 1900. But because the
thought of it was pleasing to us, we are not to conclude that it would be so to European sovereigns
and statesmen. On the contrary, they had abundant reason to dread the accumulation of so much
strength in one empire. Even in 1860 we had passed the point at which it was possible for us
to have any fear of European nations, or of a European alliance. We had but to will it, and
British America, and what there was left of Spanish America and Mexico, would all have been
gathered in, reaped by that mowing-machine, the American sword. Had our rulers of that year
sought to stave off civil war by plunging us into a foreign war, we could have made ourselves
masters of all North America, despite the opposition of all Europe, had all Europe been ready
to try the question with us, whether the Monroe doctrine were a living thing or a dirty skeleton
from the past. But all Europe would not have opposed us, seeing that England would have been
the principal sufferer from our success; and England is unpopular throughout Continental Europe,--in
France, in Germany, and in Russia. Probably the French Emperor would have preferred a true
cordial understanding with us to a nominal one with England, and, confining his labors to Europe
and the East, would have obtained her "natural boundaries" for France, and supremacy over Egypt.
The war might have left but three great powers in the world, namely, France, Russia, and America,
or the United States, the latter to include Canada and Mexico, with the Slave-Power's ascendency
everywhere established in North America. It was on the cards that we might avoid dissension
and civil strife by extending the Union, and by invading and conquering the territories of
our neighbors. Why this course was not adopted it is not our purpose now to discuss; but that
it would have been adopted, if the Secession movement had been directed from the North against
the rule of the Democratic party, we are as firmly convinced as we are of the existence of
the tax-gatherer,--and no man in this country can now entertain any doubt of his existence,
or of his industry and exactions.

When, therefore, our Union was severed in twain by the action of the Southern Secessionists,
and the Confederacy was established, it was the most natural thing in the world that most European
governments, and by far the larger part of the governing classes in most European nations,
should sympathize with the Rebels: not because they altogether approved of what the Rebels
avowed to be their principles, or of their scandalous actions in the cause of lawlessness;
but because their success would break down a nation that was becoming too strong to have any
regard for European opinion, and the continuance and growth of which were believed to be incompatible
with the safety of Europe, and the retention of its controlling position in the world. England
was relieved of her fears with regard to her North-American possessions; and Spain saw an end
put to those insulting demands that she should sell Cuba, which for years had proceeded from
Democratic administrations,--President Buchanan, in the very last days of his term, and while
the Union was falling to pieces around him, persisting in a demand which then had become as
ridiculous as it had ever been wicked. Austria and Prussia could have no objection to the breaking-up
of a nation which had sympathized with Poland, Hungary, and Italy, and which, so far as it
acted at all, had acted in behalf of European Liberalism. France, which would have been willing
to act with us, had we remained in condition to render our action valuable, had no idea of
risking anything in our behalf, and turned her attention to Mexico, as a field well worthy
of her cultivation, and which our troubles had laid open to her enterprise and ambition. The
kingdom of Italy was of too recent birth to have much influence; and, though its sympathies
were with us, it was forced by circumstances to conform to the example of France and England.
Even Russia, though unquestionably our friend, and sincerely anxious for our success, probably
did not much regret that something had here occurred which might teach us to become less ready
to prompt Poles to rebel, and not so eager to help them when in rebellion. Most of the lesser
governments of Europe saw our difficulties with satisfaction, because generally they are illiberal
in their character, and our example was calculated to render their subjects disaffected.

