Mr. Editor,--The following question was put to me by a clergyman and a scholar, who, like myself,
takes an interest in the subject of Bells. At first sight I fancied that a satisfactory answer
could easily be given: but I found that I was mistaken, and I shall be very glad if any of
your correspondents will favour me with a solution of the difficulty.

Can you define what is a Peal? Of course we know what is meant by a Peal of Bells, and to ring
a Peal; but I want it defined as to duration, mode of ringing it, &c. &c. None of the old writers
explain what they mean by ringing a Peal.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield Vicarage, Dec. 11. 1849.

Lines quoted by Goethe.

If any of your readers can inform me who is the author of the following lines, quoted by Goethe
in his Autobiography, he will greatly oblige me:--

  "Then old age and experience, hand in hand,
  Lead him to death, and make him understand,
  After a search so painful and so long,
  That all his life he has been in the wrong."

TREBOR.

King's College, Dec. 8. 1849.

MS. Sermons by Jeremy Taylor.

I venture to send you the following note, as embodying a query, which I am sure deserves, if
possible, to be answered.

     "Southey, Omniana, i. 251. Coleridge asserts (Literary Remains,
     i. 303.), that there is now extent, in MS., a folio volume of
     unprinted sermons by Jeremy Taylor. It would be very interesting to
     learn in what region of the world so great a treasure has been
     suffered to rust during a hundred and fifty years."--Willmott's
     Life of Bishop Jeremy Taylor, p. 87.

OXONIENSIS.

Papers of John Wilkes.

John Wilkes, it is well known, sent to the newspapers copies of Lord Weymouth's and Lord Barrington's
Letters respecting the riots in St. George's Fields in 1768. We Can easily conjecture how he
did or how he might have, got possession of a copy of Weymouth's Letter, which was addressed
to the magistrates of Surrey; but Barrington's letter was strictly official, and directed to
the "Field officers, in staff waiting, for the three regiments of Foot Guards." Has the circumstance
ever been explained? If so, where? Can any of your readers inform me the exact date of the
first publication of Barrington's Letter in the newspaper? Is it not time that Wilkes' Letters
and MSS. were deposited in some of our public libraries? They would throw light on many obscure
points of history. They were left by Miss Wilkes to Mr. Elmsley, "to whose judgement and delicacy"
she confided them. They were subsequently, I believe, in the legal possession of his son, the
Principal of St. Alban's; but really of Mr. Hallam.

W.

John Ross Mackay.

The following is from a work lately published, Chronicles and Characters of the Stock Exchange,
by John Francis:--

     "'The Peace of 1763,' said John Ross Mackay, Private Secretary to
     the Earl of Bute, and afterwards Treasurer to the Ordnance, 'was
     carried through and approved by pecuniary distribution.'"

Will Mr. Francis, or any of your contributors, inform me where I can find the original statement?

D.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, CATALOGUES, SALES, ETC.

