When I hear of a young man sitting down by himself as the master of a household, without a
wife, or even without a mother or sister to guide him, I always anticipate danger. If he does
not go astray in any other way, he will probably mismanage his money matters. And then there
are so many other ways. A house, if it be not made pleasant by domestic pleasant things, must
be made pleasant by pleasure. And a bachelor's pleasures in his own house are always dangerous.
There is too much wine drunk at his dinner parties. His guests sit too long over their cards.
The servants know that they want a mistress; and, in the absence of that mistress, the language
of the household becomes loud and harsh--and sometimes improper. Young men among us seldom
go quite straight in their course, unless they are, at any rate occasionally, brought under
the influence of tea and small talk.

There was no tea and small talk at Hap House, but there were hunting-dinners. Owen Fitzgerald
was soon known for his horses and his riding. He lived in the very centre of the Duhallow hunt;
and before he had been six months owner of his property had built additional stables, with
half a dozen loose boxes for his friends' nags. He had an eye, too, for a pretty girl--not
always in the way that is approved of by mothers with marriageable daughters; but in the way
of which they so decidedly disapprove.

And thus old ladies began to say bad things. Those pleasant hunting-dinners were spoken of
as the Hap House orgies. It was declared that men slept there half the day, having played cards
all the night; and dreadful tales were told. Of these tales one-half was doubtless false. But,
alas, alas! what if one-half were also true?

It is undoubtedly a very dangerous thing for a young man of twenty-two to keep house by himself,
either in town or country.

CHAPTER II

OWEN FITZGERALD

I have tied myself down to thirteen years ago as the time of my story; but I must go back a
little beyond this for its first scenes, and work my way up as quickly as may be to the period
indicated. I have spoken of a winter in which Herbert Fitzgerald was at home at Castle Richmond,
having then completed his Oxford doings; but I must say something of two years previous to
that, of a time when Herbert was not so well known in the country as was his cousin of Hap House.

It was a thousand pities that a bad word should ever have been spoken of Owen Fitzgerald; ten
thousand pities that he should ever have given occasion for such bad word. He was a fine, high-spirited,
handsome fellow, with a loving heart within his breast, and bright thoughts within his brain.
It was utterly wrong that a man constituted as he was should commence life by living alone
in a large country-house. But those who spoke ill of him should have remembered that this was
his misfortune rather than his fault. Some greater endeavour might perhaps have been made to
rescue him from evil ways. Very little such endeavour was made at all. Sir Thomas once or twice
spoke to him; but Sir Thomas was not an energetic man; and as for Lady Fitzgerald, though she
was in many things all that was excellent, she was far too diffident to attempt the reformation
of a headstrong young man, who after all was only distantly connected with her.

And thus there was no such attempt, and poor Owen became the subject of ill report without
any substantial effort having been made to save him. He was a very handsome man--tall, being
somewhat over six feet in height--athletic, almost more than in proportion--with short, light
chestnut-tinted hair, blue eyes, and a mouth perfect as that of Phoebus. He was clever, too,
though perhaps not educated as carefully as might have been: his speech was usually rapid,
hearty, and short, and not seldom caustic and pointed. Had he fallen among good hands, he might
have done very well in the world's fight; but with such a character, and lacking such advantages,
it was quite as open to him to do ill. Alas! the latter chance seemed to have fallen to him.

For the first year of his residence at Hap House, he was popular enough among his neighbours.
The Hap House orgies were not commenced at once, nor when commenced did they immediately become
a subject of scandal; and even during the second year he was tolerated;--tolerated by all,
and still flattered by some.

Among the different houses in the country at which he had become intimate was that of the Countess
of Desmond. The Countess of Desmond did not receive much company at Desmond Court. She had
not the means, nor perhaps the will, to fill the huge old house with parties of her Irish neighbours--for
she herself was English to the backbone. Ladies of course made morning calls, and gentlemen
too, occasionally; but society at Desmond Court was for some years pretty much confined to
this cold formal mode of visiting. Owen Fitzgerald, however, did obtain admittance into the
precincts of the Desmond barracks.

He went there first with the young earl, who, then quite a boy, had had an ugly tumble from
his pony in the hunting-field. The countess had expressed herself as very grateful for young
Fitzgerald's care, and thus an intimacy had sprung up. Owen had gone there once or twice to
see the lad, and on those occasions had dined there; and on one occasion, at the young earl's
urgent request, had stayed and slept.

And then the good-natured people of Muskerry, Duhallow, and Desmond began, of course, to say
that the widow was going to marry the young man. And why not? she was still a beautiful woman;
not yet forty by a good deal, said the few who took her part; or at any rate, not much over,
as was admitted by the many who condemned her. We, who have been admitted to her secrets, know
that she was then in truth only thirty-eight. She was beautiful, proud, and clever; and if
it would suit her to marry a handsome young fellow with a good house and an unembarrassed income
of eight hundred a-year, why should she not do so? As for him, would it not be a great thing
for him to have a countess for his wife, and an earl for his stepson?

What ideas the countess had on this subject we will not just now trouble ourselves to inquire.
But as to young Owen Fitzgerald, we may declare at once that no thought of such a wretched
alliance ever entered his head. He was sinful in many things, and foolish in many things. But
he had not that vile sin, that unmanly folly, which would have made a marriage with a widowed
countess eligible in his eyes, merely because she was a countess, and not more than fifteen
years his senior. In a matter of love he would as soon have thought of paying his devotions
to his far-away cousin, old Miss Barbara Beamish, of Ballyclahassan, of whom it was said that
she had set her cap at every unmarried man that had come into the west riding of the county
for the last forty years. No; it may at any rate be said of Owen Fitzgerald, that he was not
the man to make up to a widowed countess for the sake of the reflected glitter which might
fall on him from her coronet.

But the Countess of Desmond was not the only lady at Desmond Court. I have before said that
she had a daughter, the Lady Clara, the heroine of this coming story; and it may be now right
that I should attempt some short description of her; her virtues and faults, her merits and
defects. It shall be very short; for let an author describe as he will, he cannot by such course
paint the characters of his personages on the minds of his readers. It is by gradual, earnest
efforts that this must be done--if it be done. Ten, nay, twenty pages of the finest descriptive
writing that ever fell from the pen of a novelist will not do it.

