Alice of Old Vincennes

by

Maurice Thompson

PREFACE

To M. PLACIDE VALCOUR
  M. D., Ph D., LL. D.

MY DEAR DR. VALCOUR: You gave me the Inspiration which made this story haunt me until I wrote
it. Gaspard Roussillon's letter, a mildewed relic of the year 1788, which you so kindly permitted
me to copy, as far as it remained legible, was the point from which my imagination, accompanied
by my curiosity, set out upon a long and delightful quest. You laughed at me when I became
enthusiastic regarding the possible historical importance at that ancient find, alas! fragmentary
epistle; but the old saying about the beatitude of him whose cachinations are latest comes
handy to me just now, and I must remind you that "I told you so." True enough, it was history
pure and simple that I had in mind while enjoying the large hospitality of your gulf-side home.
Gaspard Roussillon's letter then appealed to my greed for materials which would help along
the making of my little book "The Story of Louisiana." Later, however, as my frequent calls
upon you for both documents and suggestions have informed you, I fell to strumming a different
guitar. And now to you I dedicate this historical romance of old Vincennes, as a very appropriate,
however slight, recognition of your scholarly attainments, your distinguished career in a noble
profession, and your descent from one of the earliest French families (if not the very earliest)
long resident at that strange little post on the Wabash, now one of the most beautiful cities
between the greet river and the ocean.

Following, with ever tantalized expectancy, the broken and breezy hints in the Roussillon letter,
I pursued a will-o'-the-wisp, here, there, yonder, until by slowly arriving increments I gathered
up a large amount of valuable facts, which when I came to compare them with the history of
Clark's conquest of the Wabash Valley, fitted amazingly well into certain spaces heretofore
left open in that important yet sadly imperfect record.

You will find that I was not so wrong in suspecting that Emile Jazon, mentioned in the Roussillon
letter, was a brother of Jean Jazon and a famous scout in the time of Boone and Clark. He was,
therefore, a kinsman of yours on the maternal side, and I congratulate you. Another thing may
please you, the success which attended my long and patient research with a view to clearing
up the connection between Alice Roussillon's romantic life, as brokenly sketched in M. Roussillon's
letter, and the capture of Vincennes by Colonel George Rogers Clark.

Accept, then, this book, which to those who care only for history will seem but an idle romance,
while to the lovers of romance it may look strangely like the mustiest history. In my mind,
and in yours I hope, it will always be connected with a breezy summer-house on a headland of
the Louisiana gulf coast, the rustling of palmetto leaves, the fine flash of roses, a tumult
of mocking-bird voices, the soft lilt of Creole patois, and the endless dash and roar of a
fragrant sea over which the gulls and pelicans never ceased their flight, and beside which
you smoked while I dreamed.

MAURICE THOMPSON.
  JULY, 1900.

Contents

     I. Under the Cherry Tree
    II. A Letter from Afar
   III. The Rape of the Demijohn
    IV. The First Mayor of Vincennes
     V. Father Gibault
    VI. A Fencing Bout
   VII. The Mayor's Party
  VIII. The Dilemma of Captain Helm
    IX. The Honors of War
     X. M. Roussillon Entertains Colonel Hamilton
    XI. A Sword and a Horse Pistol
   XII. Manon Lescaut, and a Rapier-Thrust
  XIII. A Meeting in the Wilderness
   XIV. A Prisoner of Love
    XV. Virtue in a Locket
   XVI. Father Beret's Old Battle
  XVII. A March through Cold Water
 XVIII. A Duel by Moonlight
   XIX. The Attack
    XX. Alice's Flag
   XXI. Some Transactions in Scalps
  XXII. Clark Advises Alice
 XXIII. And So It Ended

Alice of Old Vincennes

CHAPTER I

UNDER THE CHERRY TREE

Up to the days of Indiana's early statehood, probably as late as 1825, there stood, in what
is now the beautiful little city of Vincennes on the Wabash, the decaying remnant of an old
and curiously gnarled cherry tree, known as the Roussillon tree, le cerisier de Monsieur Roussillon,
as the French inhabitants called it, which as long as it lived bore fruit remarkable for richness
of flavor and peculiar dark ruby depth of color. The exact spot where this noble old seedling
from la belle France flourished, declined, and died cannot be certainly pointed out; for in
the rapid and happy growth of Vincennes many land-marks once notable, among them le cerisier
de Monsieur Roussillon, have been destroyed and the spots where they stood, once familiar to
every eye in old Vincennes, are now lost in the pleasant confusion of the new town.

The security of certain land titles may have largely depended upon the disappearance of old,
fixed objects here and there. Early records were loosely kept, indeed, scarcely kept at all;
many were destroyed by designing land speculators, while those most carefully preserved often
failed to give even a shadowy trace of the actual boundaries of the estates held thereby; so
that the position of a house or tree not infrequently settled an important question of property
rights left open by a primitive deed. At all events the Roussillon cherry tree disappeared
long ago, nobody living knows how, and with it also vanished, quite as mysteriously, all traces
of the once important Roussillon estate. Not a record of the name even can be found, it is
said, in church or county books.

The old, twisted, gum-embossed cherry tree survived every other distinguishing feature of what
was once the most picturesque and romantic place in Vincennes. Just north of it stood, in the
early French days, a low, rambling cabin surrounded by rude verandas overgrown with grapevines.
This was the Roussillon place, the most pretentious home in all the Wabash country. Its owner
was Gaspard Roussillon, a successful trader with the Indians. He was rich, for the time and
the place, influential to a degree, a man of some education, who had brought with him to the
wilderness a bundle of books and a taste for reading.

From faded letters and dimly remembered talk of those who once clung fondly to the legends
and traditions of old Vincennes, it is drawn that the Roussillon cherry tree stood not very
far away from the present site of the Catholic church, on a slight swell of ground overlooking
a wide marshy flat and the silver current of the Wabash. If the tree grew there, then there
too stood the Roussillon house with its cosy log rooms, its clay-daubed chimneys and its grapevine-mantled
verandas, while some distance away and nearer the river the rude fort with its huddled officers'
quarters seemed to fling out over the wild landscape, through its squinting and lopsided port-holes,
a gaze of stubborn defiance.

Not far off was the little log church, where one good Father Beret, or as named by the Indians,
who all loved him, Father Blackrobe, performed the services of his sacred calling; and scattered
all around were the cabins of traders, soldiers and woodsmen forming a queer little town, the
like of which cannot now be seen anywhere on the earth.

It is not known just when Vincennes was first founded; but most historians make the probable
date very early in the eighteenth century, somewhere between 1710 and 1730. In 1810 the Roussillon
cherry tree was thought by a distinguished botanical letter-writer to be at least fifty years
old, which would make the date of its planting about 1760. Certainly as shown by the time-stained
family records upon which this story of ours is based, it was a flourishing and wide-topped
tree in early summer of 1778, its branches loaded to drooping with luscious fruit. So low did
the dark red clusters hang at one point that a tall young girl standing on the ground easily
reached the best ones and made her lips purple with their juice while she ate them.

That was long ago, measured by what has come to pass on the gentle swell of rich country from
which Vincennes overlooks the Wabash. The new town flourishes notably and its appearance marks
the latest limit of progress. Electric cars in its streets, electric lights in its beautiful
homes, the roar of railway trains coming and going in all directions, bicycles whirling hither
and thither, the most fashionable styles of equipages, from brougham to pony-phaeton, make
the days of flint-lock guns and buckskin trousers seem ages down the past; and yet we are looking
back over but a little more than a hundred and twenty years to see Alice Roussillon standing
under the cherry tree and holding high a tempting cluster of fruit, while a very short, hump-backed
youth looks up with longing eyes and vainly reaches for it. The tableau is not merely rustic,
it is primitive. "Jump!" the girl is saying in French, "jump, Jean; jump high!"

Yes, that was very long ago, in the days when women lightly braved what the strongest men would
shrink from now.

Alice Roussillon was tall, lithe, strongly knit, with an almost perfect figure, judging by
what the master sculptors carved for the form of Venus, and her face was comely and winning,
if not absolutely beautiful; but the time and the place were vigorously indicated by her dress,
which was of coarse stuff and simply designed. Plainly she was a child of the American wilderness,
a daughter of old Vincennes on the Wabash in the time that tried men's souls.

"Jump, Jean!" she cried, her face laughing with a show of cheek-dimples, an arching of finely
sketched brows and the twinkling of large blue-gray eyes.

"Jump high and get them!"

While she waved her sun-browned hand holding the cherries aloft, the breeze blowing fresh from
the southwest tossed her hair so that some loose strands shone like rimpled flames. The sturdy
little hunchback did leap with surprising activity; but the treacherous brown hand went higher,
so high that the combined altitude of his jump and the reach of his unnaturally long arms was
overcome. Again and again he sprang vainly into the air comically, like a long-legged, squat-bodied
frog.

"And you brag of your agility and strength, Jean," she laughingly remarked; "but you can't
take cherries when they are offered to you. What a clumsy bungler you are."

"I can climb and get some," he said with a hideously happy grin, and immediately embraced the
bole of the tree, up which he began scrambling almost as fast as a squirrel.

When he had mounted high enough to be extending a hand for a hold on a crotch, Alice grasped
his leg near the foot and pulled him down, despite his clinging and struggling, until his hands
clawed in the soft earth at the tree's root, while she held his captive leg almost vertically
erect.

It was a show of great strength; but Alice looked quite unconscious of it, laughing merrily,
the dimples deepening in her plump cheeks, her forearm, now bared to the elbow, gleaming white
and shapely while its muscles rippled on account of the jerking and kicking of Jean.

All the time she was holding the cherries high in her other hand, shaking them by the twig
to which their slender stems attached them, and saying in a sweetly tantalizing tone:

"What makes you climb downward after cherries. Jean? What a foolish fellow you are, indeed,
trying to grabble cherries out of the ground, as you do potatoes! I'm sure I didn't suppose
that you knew so little as that."

Her French was colloquial, but quite good, showing here and there what we often notice in the
speech of those who have been educated in isolated places far from that babel of polite energies
which we call the world; something that may be described as a bookish cast appearing oddly
in the midst of phrasing distinctly rustic and local,--a peculiarity not easy to transfer from
one language to another.

Jean the hunchback was a muscular little deformity and a wonder of good nature. His head looked
unnaturally large, nestling grotesquely between the points of his lifted and distorted shoulders,
like a shaggy black animal in the fork of a broken tree. He was bellicose in his amiable way
and never knew just when to acknowledge defeat. How long he might have kept up the hopeless
struggle with the girl's invincible grip would be hard to guess. His release was caused by
the approach of a third person, who wore the robe of a Catholic priest and the countenance
of a man who had lived and suffered a long time without much loss of physical strength and
endurance.

This was Pere Beret, grizzly, short, compact, his face deeply lined, his mouth decidedly aslant
on account of some lost teeth, and his eyes set deep under gray, shaggy brows. Looking at him
when his features were in repose a first impression might not have been favorable; but seeing
him smile or hearing him speak changed everything. His voice was sweetness itself and his smile
won you on the instant. Something like a pervading sorrow always seemed to be close behind
his eyes and under his speech; yet he was a genial, sometimes almost jolly, man, very prone
to join in the lighter amusements of his people.

"Children, children, my children," he called out as he approached along a little pathway leading
up from the direction of the church, "what are you doing now? Bah there, Alice, will you pull
Jean's leg off?"

At first they did not hear him, they were so nearly deafened by their own vocal discords.

"Why are you standing on your head with your feet so high in air, Jean?" he added. "It's not
a polite attitude in the presence of a young lady. Are you a pig, that you poke your nose in
the dirt?"

Alice now turned her bright head and gave Pere Beret a look of frank welcome, which at the
same time shot a beam of willful self-assertion.

"My daughter, are you trying to help Jean up the tree feet foremost?" the priest added, standing
where he had halted just outside of the straggling yard fence.

He had his hands on his hips and was quietly chuckling at the scene before him, as one who,
although old, sympathized with the natural and harmless sportiveness of young people and would
as lief as not join in a prank or two.

"You see what I'm doing, Father Beret," said Alice, "I am preventing a great damage to you.
You will maybe lose a good many cherry pies and dumplings if I let Jean go. He was climbing
the tree to pilfer the fruit; so I pulled him down, you understand."

"Ta, ta!" exclaimed the good man, shaking his gray head; "we must reason with the child. Let
go his leg, daughter, I will vouch for him; eh, Jean?"

Alice released the hunchback, then laughed gayly and tossed the cluster of cherries into his
hand, whereupon he began munching them voraciously and talking at the same time.

"I knew I could get them," he boasted; "and see, I have them now." He hopped around, looking
like a species of ill-formed monkey.

Pere Beret came and leaned on the low fence close to Alice. She was almost as tall as he.

"The sun scorches to-day," he said, beginning to mop his furrowed face with a red-flowered
cotton handkerchief; "and from the look of the sky yonder," pointing southward, "it is going
to bring on a storm. How is Madame Roussillon to-day?"

"She is complaining as she usually does when she feels extremely well," said Alice; "that's
why I had to take her place at the oven and bake pies. I got hot and came out to catch a bit
of this breeze. Oh, but you needn't smile and look greedy, Pere Beret, the pies are not for
your teeth!"

"My daughter, I am not a glutton, I hope; I had meat not two hours since--some broiled young
squirrels with cress, sent me by Rene de Ronville. He never forgets his old father."

"Oh, I never forget you either, mon pere; I thought of you to-day every time I spread a crust
and filled it with cherries; and when I took out a pie all brown and hot, the red juice bubbling
out of it so good smelling and tempting, do you know what I said to myself?"

"How could I know, my child?"

"Well, I thought this: 'Not a single bite of that pie does Father Beret get.'"

"Why so, daughter?"

"Because you said it was bad of me to read novels and told Mother Roussillon to hide them from
me. I've had any amount of trouble about it."

"Ta, ta! read the good books that I gave you. They will soon kill the taste for these silly
romances."

"I tried," said Alice; "I tried very hard, and it's no use; your books are dull and stupidly
heavy. What do I care about something that a queer lot of saints did hundreds of years ago
in times of plague and famine? Saints must have been poky people, and it is poky people who
care to read about them, I think. I like reading about brave, heroic men and beautiful women,
and war and love."

Pere Beret looked away with a curious expression in his face, his eyes half closed.

"And I'll tell you now, Father Beret," Alice went on after a pause, "no more claret and pies
do you get until I can have my own sort of books back again to read as I please." She stamped
her moccasin-shod foot with decided energy.

The good priest broke into a hearty laugh, and taking off his cap of grass-straw mechanically
scratched his bald head. He looked at the tall, strong girl before him for a moment or two,
and it would have been hard for the best physiognomist to decide just how much of approval
and how much of disapproval that look really signified.

Although, as Father Beret had said, the sun's heat was violent, causing that gentle soul to
pass his bundled handkerchief with a wiping circular motion over his bald and bedewed pate,
the wind was momently freshening, while up from behind the trees on the horizon beyond the
river, a cloud was rising blue-black, tumbled, and grim against the sky.

"Well," said the priest, evidently trying hard to exchange his laugh for a look of regretful
resignation, "you will have your own way, my child, and--"

"Then you will have pies galore and no end of claret!" she interrupted, at the same time stepping
to the withe-tied and peg-latched gate of the yard and opening it. "Come in, you dear, good
Father, before the rain shall begin, and sit with me on the gallery" (the creole word for veranda)
"till the storm is over."

Father Beret seemed not loath to enter, albeit he offered a weak protest against delaying some
task he had in hand. Alice reached forth and pulled him in, then reclosed the queer little
gate and pegged it. She caressingly passed her arm through his and looked into his weather-stained
old face with childlike affection.

There was not a photographer's camera to be had in those days; but what if a tourist with one
in hand could have been there to take a snapshot at the priest and the maiden as they walked
arm in arm to that squat little veranda! The picture to-day would be worth its weight in a
first-water diamond. It would include the cabin, the cherry-tree, a glimpse of the raw, wild
background and a sharp portrait-group of Pere Beret, Alice, and Jean the hunchback. To compare
it with a photograph of the same spot now would give a perfect impression of the historic atmosphere,
color and conditions which cannot be set in words. But we must not belittle the power of verbal
description. What if a thoroughly trained newspaper reporter had been given the freedom of
old Vincennes on the Wabash during the first week of June, 1778, and we now had his printed
story! What a supplement to the photographer's pictures! Well, we have neither photographs
nor graphic report; yet there they are before us, the gowned and straw-capped priest, the fresh-faced,
coarsely-clad and vigorous girl, the grotesque little hunchback, all just as real as life itself.
Each of us can see them, even with closed eyes. Led by that wonderful guide, Imagination, we
step back a century and more to look over a scene at once strangely attractive and unspeakably
forlorn.

What was it that drew people away from the old countries, from the cities, the villages and
the vineyards of beautiful France, for example, to dwell in the wilderness, amid wild beasts
and wilder savage Indians, with a rude cabin for a home and the exposures and hardships of
pioneer life for their daily experience?

Men like Gaspard Roussillon are of a distinct stamp. Take him as he was. Born in France, on
the banks of the Rhone near Avignon, he came as a youth to Canada, whence he drifted on the
tide of adventure this way and that, until at last he found himself, with a wife, at Post Vincennes,
that lonely picket of religion and trade, which was to become the center of civilizing energy
for the great Northwestern Territory. M. Roussillon had no children of his own; so his kind
heart opened freely to two fatherless and motherless waifs. These were Alice, now called Alice
Roussillon, and the hunchback, Jean. The former was twelve years old, when he adopted her,
a child of Protestant parents, while Jean had been taken, when a mere babe, after his parents
had been killed and scalped by Indians. Madame Roussillon, a professed invalid, whose appetite
never failed and whose motherly kindness expressed itself most often through strains of monotonous
falsetto scolding, was a woman of little education and no refinement; while her husband clung
tenaciously to his love of books, especially to the romances most in vogue when he took leave
of France.

M. Roussillon had been, in a way, Alice's teacher, though not greatly inclined to abet Father
Beret in his kindly efforts to make a Catholic of the girl, and most treacherously disposed
toward the good priest in the matter of his well-meant attempts to prevent her from reading
and re-reading the aforesaid romances. But for many weeks past Gaspard Roussillon had been
absent from home, looking after his trading schemes with the Indians; and Pere Beret acting
on the suggestion of the proverb about the absent cat and the playing mouse, had formed an
alliance offensive and defensive with Madame Roussillon, in which it was strictly stipulated
that all novels and romances were to be forcibly taken and securely hidden away from Mademoiselle
Alice; which, to the best of Madame Roussillon's ability, had accordingly been done.

Now, while the wind strengthened and the softly booming summer shower came on apace, the heavy
cloud lifting as it advanced and showing under it the dark gray sheet of the rain, Pere Beret
and Alice sat under the clapboard roof behind the vines of the veranda and discussed, what
was generally uppermost in the priest's mind upon such occasions, the good of Alice's immortal
soul,--a subject not absorbingly interesting to her at any time.

It was a standing grief to the good old priest, this strange perversity of the girl in the
matter of religious duty, as he saw it. True she had a faithful guardian in Gaspard Roussillon;
but, much as he had done to aid the church's work in general, for he was always vigorous and
liberal, he could not be looked upon as a very good Catholic; and of course his influence was
not effective in the right direction. But then Pere Beret saw no reason why, in due time and
with patient work, aided by Madame Roussillon and notwithstanding Gaspard's treachery, he might
not safely lead Alice, whom he loved as a dear child, into the arms of the Holy Church, to
serve which faithfully, at all hazards and in all places, was his highest aim.

"Ah, my child," he was saying, "you are a sweet, good girl, after all, much better than you
make yourself out to be. Your duty will control you; you do it nobly at last, my child."

"True enough, Father Beret, true enough!" she responded, laughing, "your perception is most
excellent, which I will prove to you immediately."

She rose while speaking and went into the house.

"I'll return in a minute or two," she called back from a region which Pere Beret well knew
was that of the pantry; "don't get impatient and go away!"

Pere Beret laughed softly at the preposterous suggestion that he would even dream of going
out in the rain, which was now roaring heavily on the loose board roof, and miss a cut of cherry
pie--a cherry pie of Alice's making! And the Roussillon claret, too, was always excellent.
"Ah, child," he thought, "your old Father is not going away."

She presently returned, bearing on a wooden tray a ruby-stained pie and a short, stout bottle
flanked by two glasses.

"Of course I'm better than I sometimes appear to be," she said, almost humbly, but with mischief
still in her voice and eyes, "and I shall get to be very good when I have grown old. The sweetness
of my present nature is in this pie."

She set the tray on a three-legged stool which she pushed close to him.

"There now," she said, "let the rain come, you'll be happy, rain or shine, while the pie and
wine last, I'll be bound."

Pere Beret fell to eating right heartily, meantime handing Jean a liberal piece of the luscious
pie.

"It is good, my daughter, very good, indeed," the priest remarked with his mouth full. "Madame
Roussillon has not neglected your culinary education." Alice filled a glass for him. It was
Bordeaux and very fragrant. The bouquet reminded him of his sunny boyhood in France, of his
journey up to Paris and of his careless, joy-brimmed youth in the gay city. How far away, how
misty, yet how thrillingly sweet it all was! He sat with half closed eyes awhile, sipping and
dreaming.

The rain lasted nearly two hours; but the sun was out again when Pere Beret took leave of his
young friend. They had been having another good-natured quarrel over the novels, and Madame
Roussillon had come out on the veranda to join in.

"I've hidden every book of them," said Madame, a stout and swarthy woman whose pearl-white
teeth were her only mark of beauty. Her voice indicated great stubbornness.

"Good, good, you have done your very duty, Madame," said Pere Beret, with immense approval
in his charming voice.

"But, Father, you said awhile ago that I should have my own way about this," Alice spoke up
with spirit; "and on the strength of that remark of yours I gave you the pie and wine. You've
eaten my pie and swigged the wine, and now--"

Pere Beret put on his straw cap, adjusting it carefully over the shining dome out of which
had come so many thoughts of wisdom, kindness and human sympathy. This done, he gently laid
a hand on Alice's bright crown of hair and said:

"Bless you, my child. I will pray to the Prince of Peace for you as long as I live, and I will
never cease to beg the Holy Virgin to intercede for you and lead you to the Holy Church."

He turned and went away; but when he was no farther than the gate, Alice called out:

"O Father Beret, I forgot to show you something!"

She ran forth to him and added in a low tone:

"You know that Madame Roussillon has hidden all the novels from me."

She was fumbling to get something out of the loose front of her dress.

"Well, just take a glance at this, will you?" and she showed him a little leather bound volume,
much cracked along the hinges of the back.

It was Manon Lescaut, that dreadful romance by the famous Abbe Prevost.

Pere Beret frowned and went his way shaking his head; but before he reached his little hut
near the church he was laughing in spite of himself.

"She's not so bad, not so bad," he thought aloud, "it's only her young, independent spirit
taking the bit for a wild run. In her sweet soul she is as good as she is pure."

CHAPTER II

A LETTER FROM AFAR

Although Father Beret was for many years a missionary on the Wabash, most of the time at Vincennes,
the fact that no mention of him can be found in the records is not stranger than many other
things connected with the old town's history. He was, like nearly all the men of his calling
in that day, a self-effacing and modest hero, apparently quite unaware that he deserved attention.
He and Father Gibault, whose name is so beautifully and nobly connected with the stirring achievements
of Colonel George Rogers Clark, were close friends and often companions. Probably Father Gibault
himself, whose fame will never fade, would have been to-day as obscure as Father Beret, but
for the opportunity given him by Clark to fix his name in the list of heroic patriots who assisted
in winning the great Northwest from the English.

Vincennes, even in the earliest days of its history, somehow kept up communication and, considering
the circumstances, close relations with New Orleans. It was much nearer Detroit; but the Louisiana
colony stood next to France in the imagination and longing of priests, voyageurs, coureurs
de bois and reckless adventurers who had Latin blood in their veins. Father Beret first came
to Vincennes from New Orleans, the voyage up the Mississippi, Ohio, and Wabash, in a pirogue,
lasting through a whole summer and far into the autumn. Since his arrival the post had experienced
many vicissitudes, and at the time in which our story opens the British government claimed
right of dominion over the great territory drained by the Wabash, and, indeed, over a large,
indefinitely outlined part of the North American continent lying above Mexico; a claim just
then being vigorously questioned, flintlock in hand, by the Anglo-American colonies.

Of course the handful of French people at Vincennes, so far away from every center of information,
and wholly occupied with their trading, trapping and missionary work, were late finding out
that war existed between England and her colonies. Nor did it really matter much with them,
one way or another. They felt secure in their lonely situation, and so went on selling their
trinkets, weapons, domestic implements, blankets and intoxicating liquors to the Indians, whom
they held bound to them with a power never possessed by any other white dwellers in the wilderness.
Father Beret was probably subordinate to Father Gibault. At all events the latter appears to
have had nominal charge of Vincennes, and it can scarcely be doubted that he left Father Beret
on the Wabash, while he went to live and labor for a time at Kaskaskia beyond the plains of
Illinois.

It is a curious fact that religion and the power of rum and brandy worked together successfully
for a long time in giving the French posts almost absolute influence over the wild and savage
men by whom they were always surrounded. The good priests deprecated the traffic in liquors
and tried hard to control it, but soldiers of fortune and reckless traders were in the majority,
their interests taking precedence of all spiritual demands and carrying everything along. What
could the brave missionaries do but make the very best of a perilous situation?

In those days wine was drunk by almost everybody, its use at table and as an article of incidental
refreshment and social pleasure being practically universal; wherefore the steps of reform
in the matter of intemperance were but rudimentary and in all places beset by well-nigh insurmountable
difficulties. In fact the exigencies of frontier life demanded, perhaps, the very stimulus
which, when over indulged in, caused so much evil. Malaria loaded the air, and the most efficacious
drugs now at command were then undiscovered or could not be had. Intoxicants were the only
popular specific. Men drank to prevent contracting ague, drank again, between rigors, to cure
it, and yet again to brace themselves during convalescence.

But if the effect of rum as a beverage had strong allurement for the white man, it made an
absolute slave of the Indian, who never hesitated for a moment to undertake any task, no matter
how hard, bear any privation, even the most terrible, or brave any danger, although it might
demand reckless desperation, if in in the end a well filled bottle or jug appeared as his reward.

Of course the traders did not overlook such a source of power. Alcoholic liquor became their
implement of almost magical work in controlling the lives, labors, and resources of the Indians.
The priests with their captivating story of the Cross had a large influence in softening savage
natures and averting many an awful danger; but when everything else failed, rum always came
to the rescue of a threatened French post.

We need not wonder, then, when we are told that Father Beret made no sign of distress or disapproval
upon being informed of the arrival of a boat loaded with rum, brandy or gin. It was Rene de
Ronville who brought the news, the same Rene already mentioned as having given the priest a
plate of squirrels. He was sitting on the doorsill of Father Beret's hut, when the old man
reached it after his visit at the Roussillon home, and held in his hand a letter which he appeared
proud to deliver.

"A batteau and seven men, with a cargo of liquor, came during the rain," he said, rising and
taking off his curious cap, which, made of an animal's skin, had a tail jauntily dangling from
its crown-tip; "and here is a letter for you, Father. The batteau is from New Orleans. Eight
men started with it; but one went ashore to hunt and was killed by an Indian."

Father Beret took the letter without apparent interest and said:

"Thank you, my son, sit down again; the door-log is not wetter than the stools inside; I will
sit by you."

The wind had driven a flood of rain into the cabin through the open door, and water twinkled
in puddles here and there on the floor's puncheons. They sat down side by side, Father Beret
fingering the letter in an absent-minded way.

"There'll be a jolly time of it to-night," Rene de Ronville remarked, "a roaring time."

"Why do you say that, my son?" the priest demanded.

"The wine and the liquor," was the reply; "much drinking will be done. The men have all been
dry here for some time, you know, and are as thirsty as sand. They are making ready to enjoy
themselves down at the river house."

"Ah, the poor souls!" sighed Father Beret, speaking as one whose thoughts were wandering far away.

"Why don't you read your letter, Father?" Rene added.

The priest started, turned the soiled square of paper over in his hand, then thrust it inside
his robe.

"It can wait," he said. Then, changing his voice; "the squirrels you gave me were excellent,
my son. It was good of you to think of me," he added, laying his hand on Rene's arm.

"Oh, I'm glad if I have pleased you, Father Beret, for you are so kind to me always, and to
everybody. When I killed the squirrels I said to myself: 'These are young, juicy and tender,
Father Beret must have these,' so I brought them along."

The young man rose to go; for he was somehow impressed that Father Beret must wish opportunity
to read his letter, and would prefer to be left alone with it. But the priest pulled him down
again.

"Stay a while," he said, "I have not had a talk with you for some time."

Rene looked a trifle uneasy.

"You will not drink any to-night, my son," Father Beret added. "You must not; do you hear?"

The young man's eyes and mouth at once began to have a sullen expression; evidently he was
not pleased and felt rebellious; but it was hard for him to resist Father Beret, whom he loved,
as did every soul in the post. The priest's voice was sweet and gentle, yet positive to a degree.
Rene did not say a word.

"Promise me that you will not taste liquor this night," Father Beret went on, grasping the
young man's arm more firmly; "promise me, my son, promise me."

Still Rene was silent. The men did not look at each other, but gazed away across the country
beyond the Wabash to where a glory from the western sun flamed on the upper rim of a great
cloud fragment creeping along the horizon. Warm as the day had been, a delicious coolness now
began to temper the air; for the wind had shifted into the northwest. A meadowlark sang dreamingly
in the wild grass of the low lands hard by, over which two or three prairie hawks hovered with
wings that beat rapidly.

"Eh bien, I must go," said Rene presently, getting to his feet nimbly and evading Father Beret's
hand which would have held him.

"Not to the river house, my son?" said the priest appealingly.

"No, not there; I have another letter; one for M'sieu' Roussillon; it came by the boat too.
I go to give it to Madame Roussillon."

Rene de Ronville was a dark, weather-stained young fellow, neither tall nor short, wearing
buckskin moccasins, trousers and tunic. His eyes were dark brown, keen, quick-moving, set well
under heavy brows. A razor had probably never touched his face, and his thin, curly beard crinkled
over his strongly turned cheeks and chin, while his moustaches sprang out quite fiercely above
his full-lipped, almost sensual mouth. He looked wiry and active, a man not to be lightly reckoned
with in a trial of bodily strength and will power.

Father Beret's face and voice changed on the instant. He laughed dryly and said, with a sly
gleam in his eyes:

"You could spend the evening pleasantly with Madame Roussillon and Jean. Jean, you know, is
a very amusing fellow."

Rene brought forth the letter of which he had spoken and held it up before Father Beret's face.

"Maybe you think I haven't any letter for M'sieu' Roussillon," he blurted; "and maybe you are
quite certain that I am not going to the house to take the letter."

"Monsieur Roussillon is absent, you know," Father Beret suggested. "But cherry pies are just
as good while he's gone as when he's at home, and I happen to know that there are some particularly
delicious ones in the pantry of Madame Roussillon. Mademoiselle Alice gave me a juicy sample;
but then I dare say you do not care to have your pie served by her hand. It would interfere
with your appetite; eh, my son?"

Rene turned short about wagging his head and laughing, and so with his back to the priest he
strode away along the wet path leading to the Roussillon place.

Father Beret gazed after him, his face relaxing to a serious expression in which a trace of
sadness and gloom spread like an elusive twilight. He took out his letter, but did not glance
at it, simply holding it tightly gripped in his sinewy right hand. Then his old eyes stared
vacantly, as eyes do when their sight is cast back many, many years into the past. The missive
was from beyond the sea--he knew the handwriting--a waft of the flowers of Avignon seemed to
rise out of it, as if by the pressure of his grasp.

A stoop-shouldered, burly man went by, leading a pair of goats, a kid following. He was making
haste excitedly, keeping the goats at a lively trot.

"Bon jour, Pere Beret," he flung out breezily, and walked rapidly on.

"Ah, ah; his mind is busy with the newly arrived cargo," thought the old priest, returning
the salutation; "his throat aches for the liquor,--the poor man."

Then he read again the letter's superscription and made a faltering move, as if to break the
seal. His hands trembled violently, his face looked gray and drawn.

