"The good proposed by this, as a political measure, is not that of retaining such persons to
act as pamphleteers and journalists, but that of preventing them from becoming such, in hostility
to the established order of things; and of giving men of letters, as a class, something to
look for beyond the precarious gains of literature; thereby inducing in them a desire to support
the existing institutions of their country, on the stability of which their own welfare would
depend.

"Your Lordship's second question,--in what way the encouragement of Government could most safely
and beneficially be given,--is, in the main, answered by what has been said upon the first.
I do not enter into any details of the proposed institution, for that would be to think of
fitting up a castle in the air. Nor is it worth while to examine how far such an institution
might be perverted. Abuses there would be, as in the disposal of all preferments, civil, military,
or ecclesiastical; but there would be a more obvious check upon them; and where they occurred
they would be less injurious in their consequences than they are in the state, the army and
navy, or the church.

"With regard to prizes, methinks they are better left to schools and colleges. Honors are worth
something to scientific men, because they are conferred upon such men in other countries; at
home there are precedents for them in Newton and Davy, and the physicians and surgeons have
them. In my judgment, men of letters are better without them, unless they are rich enough to
bequeath to their family a good estate with the bloody hand, and sufficiently men of the world
to think such distinctions appropriate. For myself, if we had a Guelphic order, I should choose
to remain a Ghibelline.

"I have written thus fully and frankly, not dreaming that your proposal is likely to be matured
and carried into effect, but in the spirit of good will, and as addressing one by whom there
is no danger that I can be misunderstood. One thing alone I ask from the legislature, and in
the name of justice,--that the injurious law of copyright should be repealed, and that the
family of an author should not be deprived of their just and natural rights in his works when
his permanent reputation is established. This I ask with the earnestness of a man who is conscious
that he has labored for posterity."

The publication of this letter, and of the correspondence between Southey and Sir Robert Peel,
in which the poet declines being knighted, on account of his poverty--a correspondence eminently
honorable to the late Prime Minister, has occasioned an eloquent letter from Walter Savage
Landor to Lord Brougham on the same subject.

CLASSICAL NOVELS.

The Edinburgh Review rebukes the daring of those uneducated story-tellers who profane by their
intrusion the holy lands, the sacred names, and golden ages of art. We have acceptable specimens
of the "classical novel" by Dr. Croly, Lockhart, Bulwer, and Collins (the author of "Antonini"),
and in this country by Mrs. Child and William Ware; but nineteen of every twenty who have attempted
such compositions have failed entirely. The Edinburgh Reviewer, after showing that the writers
whom he arraigns have merely parodied the exterior life of our own time, proceeds--

"It is not uncommon to excuse such deviations from historical propriety by saying, that if
the mere accidents have been neglected, the essential humanity has been only more fully realized:
and those who quarrel with the neglect are stigmatized as pedants having no eyes except for
the external. We think, however, that it will be found, in most cases where the plea is set
up, that the humanity for which the sacrifice has been made is equally external with that which
has been disregarded, and much more commonplace and conventional; being in fact, only the outer
life of existing society. We are met, of course, by the triumphant answer that Shakspeare wrote
Roman plays with a very slender knowledge of the classics. It would be sufficient to reply,
that we are speaking of cases where ignorance of antiquity is not counterbalanced by any very
exuberant or profound knowledge of human nature. Possibly posterity may have to deal with another
myriad-minded dramatist whose poverty is better than other men's riches; but it must not be
rashly presumed that he is likely to appear at all; or, if at all, with the same deficiency
of learning which was not unnatural three hundred years back. Meanwhile, it is a perverse and
pernicious paradox to maintain that Shakspeare's consummate genius was in any way connected
with his 'little Latin and less Greek,' or that he might not have portrayed the Romans yet
more successfully if he had known more about them. Believing this, we are not presuming, as
the same absurd reasoning would have it, to set up ourselves against him. We do not say that
any other man in his age or our own, however great his command of learning, could possibly
mend those plays by touching them; but we say that Shakspeare himself, with increased knowledge,
might have made them yet more perfect. It is easy to oppose inspiration to scholastic culture;
to coin antitheses between nature and art; and to say that Shakspeare's Romans are more ideally
true than Niebuhr's. There is some truth in all this; but it is not to the purpose. A poet
like Burns may have really known more of classical life than a critic like Blair; nay, it may
be that if Keats or Tennyson had been a senior medallist at Cambridge, they would not have
produced any thing not only so beautiful but so purely Greek as Endymion or Oenone. In what
we were just saying we were thinking of the very highest minds. And, when we recollect how
gracefully Milton could walk under the weight of his immense learning, we need not fear that
the Alantean shoulders of Shakspeare would have been oppressed by a similar load. The knowledge
of antiquity may operate on the recipient so as to produce mere bookishness and intellectual
sophistication; but in itself it is a real and legitimate part of all knowledge, a portion
of that truth with which poets are conversant, a lesson set in other schools than those where
man is teacher. We know not what were Shakspeare's feelings with respect to his own deficiencies;
but we cannot believe that the same modesty which besought his friend to chide with Fortune,
'the guilty goddess of his harmful deeds,' would have shrunk from confessing want of knowledge
as an evil to be lamented, at the same time that it was imputed to want of opportunity. If
he was self-centred, it was in his strength, not in his weakness. His eulogists may show the
greatness of their faith in him by doubting whether he could have assimilated the learning
which obstructs Ben Jonson's Catiline and Sejanus; but we have no proofs that he thought so
meanly of himself or of that which he happened not to possess. On the contrary, it may be argued,
from the diligent use which he has made of such information as he had, that he would gladly
have taken advantage of more. Arnold, in his Roman History, has noted the poet's perception
of historical truth in a matter where it might well have been overlooked; and future critics
may perhaps spend their time more profitably in discovering other indications of a like vigilant
industry than in laboring to prove that the absence of so servile a virtue has been conducive
to his preëminence as a creative artist."

SLIDING SCALE OF THE INCONSOLABLES.

The editor of The Albion thus christens, while he translates, the following lively narrative,
culled from the varied columns of the Courrier des Etats Unis. The malicious writer dates from
Paris; but for such experiences our own city would probably be quite as prolific a hunting-field.

       *       *       *       *       *

How rapid is the progress of oblivion with respect to those who are no more! How many a quadrille
shall we see this winter, exclusively made up from the ranks of inconsolable widows! Widows
of this order exist only in the literature of the tombstone. In the world, and after the lapse
of a certain period, there is but one sort of widows inconsolable--those who refuse to be comforted,
because they can't get married again!

One of our most distinguished sculptors was summoned, a short time since, to the house of a
young lady, connected by birth with a family of the highest grade in the aristocracy of wealth,
and united in marriage to the heir of a title illustrious in the military annals of the empire.
The union, formed under the happiest auspices, had been, alas! of short duration. Death, unpitying
death, had ruptured it, by prematurely carrying off the young husband. The sculptor was summoned
by the widow. He traversed the apartments, silent and deserted, until he was introduced into
a bedroom, and found himself in presence of a lady, young and beautiful, but habited in the
deepest mourning, and with a face furrowed by tears. "You are aware," said she, with a painful
effort, and a voice half choked by sobs, "you are aware of the blow which I have received?"
The artist bowed, with an air of respectful condolence. "Sir," continued the widow, "I am anxious
to have a funeral monument erected in honor of the husband whom I have lost." The artist bowed
again. "I wish that the monument should be superb, worthy of the man whose loss I weep, proportioned
to the unending grief into which his loss has plunged me. I care not what it costs. I am rich,
and I will willingly sacrifice all my fortune to do honor to the memory of an adored husband.
I must have a temple--with columns--in marble--and in the middle--on a pedestal--his statue."

"I will do my best to fulfil your wishes, madam," replied the artist; "but I had not the honor
of acquaintance with the deceased, and a likeness of him is indispensable for the due execution
of my work. Without doubt, you have his portrait?"

The widow raised her arm and pointed despairingly to a splendid likeness painted by Amaury Duval.

"A most admirable picture!" observed the artist, "and the painter's name is a sufficient guarantee
for its striking resemblance to the original."

"Those are his very features, sir; it is himself. It wants but life. Ah! would that I could
restore it to him at the cost of all my blood!"

"I will have this portrait carried to my studio, madam, and I promise you that the marble shall
reproduce it exactly."

The widow, at these words, sprung up, and at a single bound throwing herself towards the picture,
with arms stretched out as though to defend it, exclaimed, "Take away this portrait! carry
off my only consolation! my sole remaining comfort! never! never!"

"But madam, you will only be deprived of it for a short time, and--"

"Not an hour! not a minute! could I exist without his beloved image! Look you, sir, I have
had it placed here, in my own room, that my eyes might be fastened upon it, without ceasing,
and through my tears. His portrait shall never leave this spot one single instant, and in contemplating
that will I pass the remainder of a miserable and sorrowful existence."

"In that case, madam, you will be compelled to permit me to take a copy of it. But do not be
uneasy--I shall not have occasion to trouble your solitude for any length of time: one sketch--one
sitting will suffice."

The widow agreed to this arrangement; she only insisted that the artist should come back the
following day. She wanted him to set to work on the instant, so great was her longing to see
the mausoleum erected. The sculptor, however, remarked that he had another work to finish first.
This difficulty she sought to overcome by means of money.

"Impossible!" replied the artist, "I have given my word; but do not distress yourself; I will
apply to it so diligently, that the monument shall be finished in as short a time as any other
sculptor would require, who could apply himself to it forthwith."

"You see my distress," said the widow; "you can make allowance for my impatience. Be speedy,
then, and above all, be lavish of magnificence. Spare no expense; only let me have a masterpiece."

Several letters echoed these injunctions, during the few days immediately following the interview.
At the expiration of three months the artist called again. He found the widow still in weeds,
but a little less pallid, and a little more coquettishly dressed in her mourning garb. "Madam,"
said he, "I am entirely at your service."

"Ah! at last; this is fortunate," replied the widow, with a gracious smile.

"I have made my design, but I still want one sitting for the likeness. Will you permit me to
go into your bedroom?"

"Into my bedroom? For what?"

"To look at the portrait again."

"Oh! yes; have the goodness to walk into the drawing-room; you will find it there, now."

"Ah!"

"Yes; it hangs better there; it is better lighted in the drawing-room than in my own room."

"Would you like, madam, to look at the design for the monument?"

"With pleasure. Oh! what a size! What profusion of decorations! Why, it is a palace, sir, this
tomb!"

"Did you not tell me, madam, that nothing could be too magnificent? I have not considered the
expense; and, by the way, here is a memorandum of what the monument will cost you."

"Oh, heavens!" exclaimed the widow, after having cast an eye over the total adding up. "Why,
this is enormous!"

"You begged me to spare no expense."

"Yes, no doubt, I desire to do things properly, but not exactly to make a fool of myself."

"This, at present, you see, is only a design; and there is time yet to cut it down."

"Well, then, suppose we were to leave out the temple, and the columns, and all the architectural
part, and content ourselves with the statue? It seems to me that this would be very appropriate."

"Certainly it would."

"So let it be, then--just the statue, alone."

Shortly after this second visit, the sculptor fell desperately ill. He was compelled to give
up work; but, on returning from a tour in Italy, prescribed by his physician, he presented
himself once more before the widow, who was then in the tenth month of her mourning. He found,
this time, a few roses among the cypress, and some smiling colors playing over half-shaded
grounds. He brought with him a little model of his statue, done in plaster, and offering in
miniature the idea of what his work was to be. "What do you think of the likeness?" he inquired
of the widow.

"It seems to me a little flattered; my husband was all very well, no doubt; but you are making
him an Apollo!"

"Really? well, then, I can correct my work by the portrait."

"Don't take the trouble--a little more, or a little less like, what does it matter?"

"Excuse me, but I am particular about likenesses."

"If you absolutely must--"

"It is in the drawing-room, yonder, is it not? I'll go in there."

"It is not there any longer," replied the widow, ringing the bell.

"Baptiste," said she to the servant who came in, "bring down the portrait of your master."

"The portrait that you sent up to the garret last week, madam?"

"Yes."

At this moment the door opened, and a young man of distinguished air entered; his manners were
easy and familiar; he kissed the fair widow's hand, and tenderly inquired after her health.
"Who in the world is this good man in plaster?" asked he, pointing with his finger to the statuette,
which the artist had placed upon the mantel-piece.

"It is the model of a statue for my husband's tomb."

"You are having a statue of him made? The devil! It's very majestic!"

"Do you think so?"

"It is only great men who are thus cut out of marble, and at full length; it seems to me, too,
that the deceased was a very ordinary personage."

"In fact, his bust would be sufficient."

"Just as you please, madam," said the sculptor.

"Well, let it be a bust, then; that's determined!"

Two months later, the artist, carrying home the bust, encountered on the stairs a merry party.
The widow, giving her hand to the elegant dandy who had caused the statue of the deceased to
be cut down, was on her way to the mayor's office, where she was about to take a second oath
of conjugal fidelity. If the bust had not been completed, it would willingly have been dispensed
with. When, some time later, the artist called for his money, there was an outcry about the
price; and it required very little less than a threat of legal proceedings, before the widow,
consoled and remarried, concluded by resigning herself to pay for this funeral homage, reduced
as it was, to the memory of her departed husband.

A NEW SERIES OF TALES BY MISS MARTINEAU.

There is scarcely in English literature a collection of tales by a simple writer that are better
adapted for the instruction of the masses, than HARRIET MARTINEAU'S Illustrations of Political
Economy. Without believing her a very profound philosopher, we are inclined to think these
works could be remembered longer than any of her other writings. The pleasure and instruction
we derived from them were recalled by the announcement in the London Leader that she is to
contribute a new series of stories for the people, to that journal. We copy the first of them.

THE OLD GOVERNESS.

The afternoon was come when the Morells must go on board. They were going to Canada at last,
after having talked about it for several years. There were so many children, that it was with
much difficulty they had got on for some years past; and there was no prospect for the lads
at home. They had, with extreme difficulty, paid their way: and they had, to a certain extent,
educated the children. That, however, was Miss Smith's doing.

"We shall always feel, every one of us," said Mrs. Morell, with tears, to the elderly homely
governess, "that we are under the deepest obligations to you. But for you, the children would
have grown up without any education at all. And, for the greatest service you or any one could
possibly render us, we have never been able to give you your due,--even as regards the mere money."

"I can only say again," replied the governess, "that you do not look at the whole of the case.
You have given me a home, when it is no easy matter for such as I am to earn one, with my old-womanish
ways and my old-fashioned knowledge."

"I will not hear any disparagement of your ways and your knowledge," interrupted Mrs. Morell.
"They have been every thing to my children: and if you could have gone with us...."

This, however, they all knew to be out of the question. It was not only that Miss Smith was
between fifty and sixty, too old to go so far, with little prospect of comfort at the end of
the journey; but she was at present disabled for much usefulness by the state of her right
hand. It had been hurt by an accident a long time before, and it did not get well. The surgeon
had always said it would be a long case; and she had no use whatever of the hand in the mean
time. Yet she would not part with the baby till the last moment. She carried him on the left
arm, and stood on the wharf with him--the mother at her side--till all the rest were on board,
and Mr. Morell came for his wife. It was no grand steamer they were going in, but a humble
vessel belonging to the port, which would carry them cheap.

"Now, my love," said the husband. "Now, Miss Smith," taking the child from her. "Words cannot
tell...."

And if words could have told, the tongue could not have uttered them. It was little, too, that
his wife could say.

"Write to us. Be sure you write. We shall write as soon as we arrive. Write to us."

Miss Smith glanced at the hand. She said only one word, "Farewell!" but she said it cheerfully.

The steam-tug was in a hurry, and down the river they went. She had one more appointment to
keep with them. She was to wave her handkerchief from the rocks by the fort; and the children
were to let her try whether she could see their little handkerchiefs. So she walked quickly
over the common to the fort, and sat down on the beach at the top of the rocks.

It was very well that she had something to do. But the plan did not altogether answer. By the
time the vessel crossed the bar it was nearly dark, and she was not quite sure, among three,
which it was, and she did not suppose the children could see her handkerchief. She waved it,
however, according to promise. How little they knew how wet it was!

Then there was the walk home. It was familiar, yet very strange. When she was a child her parents
used to bring her here, in the summer time, for sea air and bathing. The haven and the old
gray bathing houses, and the fort, and the lighthouse, and the old priory ruins crowning the
rocks, were all familiar to her; but the port had so grown up that all else was strange. And
how strange now was life to her! Her parents gone, many years back, and her two sisters since;
and now, the Morells! She had never had any money to lose, and the retired way in which the
Morells lived had prevented her knowing any body out of their house. She had not a relation
nor a friend, nor even an acquaintance, in England. The Morells had not been uneasy about her.
They left her a little money, and had so high an opinion of her that they did not doubt her
being abundantly employed, whenever her hand should get well. They had lived too much to themselves
to know that her French, learned during the war, when nobody in England could pronounce French,
would not do in these days, nor that her trilling, old-fashioned style of playing on the piano,
which they thought so beautiful, would be laughed at now in any boarding school; and that her
elegant needleworks were quite out of fashion; and that there were new ways of teaching even
reading, spelling, and writing.

She knew these things, and cautioned herself against discontent with the progress of society,
because she happened to be left alone behind. She suspected, too, that the hand would not get
well. The thing that she was most certain of was, that she must not rack her brain with fears
and speculations as to what was to become of her. Her business was to wait till she could find
something to do, or learn what she was to suffer. She thought she had better wait here. There
was no call to any other place. This was more familiar and more pleasant to her than any other--the
Morells' cottage being far away, and out of the question--and here she could live with the
utmost possible cheapness. So here she staid.

The hand got well, as far as the pain was concerned, sooner than she had expected. But it was
in a different way from what she had expected. It was left wholly useless. And, though the
time was not long, it had wrought as time does. It had worn out her clothes; it had emptied
her little purse. It had carried away every thing she had in the world but the very few clothes
she had on. She had been verging towards the resolution she now took for three or four weeks.
She took it finally while sitting on the bench near the fort. It was in the dusk; for her gown,
though she had done her best to mend it with her left hand, was in no condition to show by
daylight. She was alone in the dusk, rather hungry and very cold. The sea was dashing surlily
upon the rocks below, and there was too much mist to let any stars shine upon her. It was all
dreary enough; yet she was not very miserable, for her mind was made up. She had made up her
mind to go into the work-Pouse the next day. While she was thinking calmly about it a fife
began to play a sort of jig in the yard of the fort behind her. Her heart heaved to her throat
and the tears gushed from her eyes. In this same spot, fifty years before, she had heard what
seemed to her the same fife. Her father was then sitting on the grass, and she was between
his knees, helping to tassel the tail of a little kite they were going to fly; and, when the
merry fife had struck up, her father had snatched up her gay Harlequin that lay within reach,
and made him shake his legs and arms to the music. She heard her own laugh again now, through
that long course of fifty years, and in the midst of these tears.

All that night she pondered her purpose: and the more she considered, the more sure she was
that it was right. "I might," thought she, "get maintained by charity, no doubt: I might call
on any of the clergymen of this place, and the rich people. Or I might walk into the shops
and tell my story, and I dare say the people would give me food and clothes. And, if it was
a temporary distress, I would do so. I should think it right to ask for help, if I had any
prospect of work or independence in any way. But I have none: and this, I am convinced, points
out my duty. Hopeless cases like mine are those which public charity--legal charity--is intended
to meet. My father little dreamed of this, to be sure; and the Morells little dream of it at
this moment. But when do our parents and friends, when do we ourselves, dream of what our lot
is really to turn out? Those old notions have nothing to do, if we could but think so, with
the event. Nor has my disgust any thing to do with my duty. The plain fact is, that I am growing
old--that I am nearly helpless--that I am cold and hungry, and nearly naked--that I have no
friends within reach, and no prospect whatever. I am, therefore, an object for public charity,
and I will ask for what is my due. I am afraid of what I may find in the workhouse;--the vicious
people, the dirty people, the diseased people,--and, I suppose, not one among them who can
give me any companionship whatever.

"It is dreadful; but it can't be helped. And the worse the case is about my companions--my
fellow-paupers--(for I must learn to bear the word)--the greater are the chances of my finding
something to do for them;--something which may prevent my feeling myself utterly useless in
the world. This is not being wholly without prospect, after all. I suppose nobody ever is.
If it were not so cold now, I could sleep upon mine."

It was too cold for sleep; and when, in the morning, she offered her old shawl in payment for
her bed, assuring the poor old woman who let it that she should not want the shawl, because
she was going to have other clothes, the woman shook her head sorrowfully,--her lodger looked
so wan and chilled. She had no fear that there was any thought of suicide in the case. No one
could look in Miss Smith's sensible face, and hear her steady, cheerful voice, and suppose
that she would do any thing wild or impatient.

