"Come to me, O ye children," as some one sings--ARTHUR CECIL for choice--and it might be adapted
for the occasion by the Publishers of Chatterbox, in which box there's a prize. Messrs. ROUTLEDGE
go in for the old, old tales. They've kindly given Mother Hubbard a new dress; and as for their
Panorama of the "Beasteses," it is like a picture-walk in the Zoo. Some Historic Women, well
selected by DAVENPORT ADAMS, who should have styled it Christmas Eves by Adams. With Mrs. MOLESWORTH's
Bewitched Lamp the Baron's Assistant is much pleased. Pictures ought to have been in oil, and
there should have been a Wickéd Fairy in it,--but there isn't.

My "Co." reports that Mrs. GRIMWOOD's long-expected book, My Three Years in Manipur (BENTLEY),
is worthy of the theme, and adds a fresh laurel to the chaplet worn by the lady on whose breast
the QUEEN pinned the Red Cross. The moving story is told with a simplicity that looks like
the development of the highest art. But the heroine of Manipur is unmistakably artless. She
is content to jot down, as if she were writing a letter home, her impressions of what she sees,
and her account of what passes before her eyes. She has the gift of reproducing with a few
strokes of the pen, portraiture of anything that has struck her. The only thing missed is detailed
report of her own brave bearing through the fearful night when the Residency was attacked,
and during the dreadful days that followed on the flight towards Cachar. No one reading Mrs.
GRIMWOOD's narrative would guess what splendid part she played in that tragedy. Fortunately
that has been told elsewhere, and the omission is an added charm to a book that has many others--including
a portrait of the author.

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS AND CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIVIL SERVICE EXHIBITION.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--The Military Exhibition was such a success, and the Naval Exhibition was such
a successor, that we Government Clerks invoke your powerful aid to help us to establish next
year a Civil Service Exhibition. The Public have really no idea what wondrous curiosities there
are in the Civil Service, and would, I feel sure, be amused and instructed at a well-organised
and representative Exhibition. At 10.15 A.M. they would see real live Clerks sign real Attendance-Books,
and insert (real or unreal) times of arrival. In the course of the morning there might be an
Exhibition of Civil Servants over sixty-five years of age, who didn't want to retire, with
a similar number of Civil Servants, of fifty-five years of age, who didn't want them to stay.
In the afternoon, in the Arena, would daily be attempted the difficult feat of proceeding from
the Second Division to the Higher Division. The obstacles would be represented by real Treasury
Clerks and Civil Service Commissioners, holding Orders in Council and Treasury Minutes; and
the Clerk successful in performing the feat might be created a Duke.

In one of the kiosks a lecture on "Sick Leave and how to spend it," by the Earl and the Doctor,
might be delivered hourly. In another kiosk, official C.B.'s would be on show; Jubilee C.B.'s
being classed together on one side, and special prominence being given to those C.B.'s who
hadn't applied for the honour, and to those who had obtained it for real services otherwise
unrecognised. After dark the "Treasury Ring" might join hands and dance round the flashing
light of their own unassisted intellect.

The different refreshment rooms (furnished by the Office of Works) would be classified according
to the varying rates of Subsistence Allowance in force in the Service. Here the dinner for
the £1-a-day man--there the tea for the 10s.-a-day man. Special luncheon rates for those not
absent from home at night, but absent for more than ten hours.

Visitors might be searched on arrival and departure by real Custom House Officers. This would
be sure to make it popular. Please, dear Mr. Punch, do help us. Yours, &c.,

A GOVERNMENT CLERK.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH OPERA AS SHE ISN'T SUNG.

It seems impossible to support a Royal English Opera House with its special commodity of English
Opera, that is, Opera composed by an Englishman to an Englishman's libretto, and played by
English operatic singers. Ivanhoe, a genuine English Opera, by a genuine English Composer (with
an Irish name), produced with great éclat, has, after a fair run and lots of favour, been Doyl-écarté,
in order to make room for the Basoche, an essentially French Opera, by French Composer and
Librettists, done, of course, into English, so as to be "understanded of the people." The Basoche
has "caught on," and our friends in front, including Composer, Librettist, and Middlemen--DRURIOLANUS,
who bought it, and DOYLY CARTY, who bought it of Sir DRURI--are all equally pleased and satisfied.
Considered as a matter of business, what signifies the nationality as long as the spec pays?--tout
est là. Only why retain the differentiating title of "English" for the establishment? Why not
call it "The Cosmopolitan Opera House"? Of course this applies, nowadays, to Covent Garden
Theatre, which is no longer the Italian Opera House, but simply the Covent Garden Opera during
the Operatic Season, when French, English, Italian, and German Operas are played by a Babel
of singers. By the way, while on the subject of nomenclature, why not "The Royal Babel Opera
House"?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE GERMANIA MAGNATE;

OR, TRYING TO SWAY THE SCEPTRE.

    ["Suprema lex regis voluntas." Words reported to have been
    written by the German Emperor in the Visitors' Book of the
    City Council at Munich.]

  No more let men chatter of such a small matter
    As Ladies Magnetic, with mystical forces,
  Whose billiard-cue business strikes with sheer dizziness
    Muscular Miloes who're game to lift horses.
  As MITCHELL the bulky was made to look sulky
    By slight Mrs. ABBOTT, the Georgian Mystery,
  She is struck silly by Behemoth BILLY,
    That young Teuton Titan, the toughest in history.

  O Oracle Mighty (though vocally flighty),
    Great Creature, omniscient (if a bit youthful),
  Panjandrum-plus-CÆSAR, Herculean Teaser
    Of tendencies vicious, or tame, or untruthful!
  You mastered the Moral while sucking your coral--
    You set the world right--in idea--in your cradle.
  Omnipotent Bumble, our pride let us humble,
    And take our opinions--like soup--from your ladle!

  You are such a fellow! The sages turn yellow,
    The wits all go pallid, and so do the heroes;
  Big Brontes grow jealous when you blow the bellows,
    A fig for your CÆSARS, ISKANDERS, and NEROS!
  You lick them all hollow, great Vulcan-Apollo,
    Sole lord of our consciences, lives, arts, and armies!
  But (like Mrs. A., Sir) 'twould floor you to say, Sir,
    Where, what, in the mischief the source of your charm is!

  Say, how do you do it? That Georgian's cue, it,
    Compared with your sceptre, is just a mere withy.
  You quietly front in with that calm "Voluntas,"
    (Expressed for our guidance in epigrams pithy)
  You hint you can rule us, and guide us, and school us,
    "All off your own bat," without Clergy or Minister,
  Giving swift gruel to stage-prank, or duel,
    Or any thing else you think stupid or sinister.

  O Autocrat fateful, we ought to be grateful
    For such an infallible, all-potent party,
  At this time of day too, to show us the way to--
    Wherever you'd lead us, with confidence hearty.
  And as for those duffers, your confidence suffers
    To tug at the sceptre, with vain thoughts of swaying it,
  What can it matter? "The Magnet" can shatter
    Their strength; at its pleasure controlling or staying it.

  In vain "Blood and Iron," with foes that environ
    Your sceptre, smart Press-man, or Socialist spouter,
  May struggle together; you hold them in tether,
    Or so you proclaim, you, whom foes call "the Shouter."
  The pose is imposing, if ere the scene's closing,
    The "Little Germania Magnate" gets beaten;
  Well, put at the worst, Sir, you are not the first, Sir,
    Who playing the Thraso has humble-pie eaten!

       *       *       *       *       *

"DINNER FORGET."--Lord RANDOLPH is coming home by a Union Company's Steamer. The distinguished
Unionist is to have a special cook to attend to him. Does this mean that he returns as a Special
COOK's Tourist?

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ELECTION ECHO.

  GLADSTONIAN LAMBERT,
    Of course, as he should,
  This last bye-election
    Considered was good.
  But Unionist BULLER
    Has said, on reflection,
  That to him it seemed rather
    A Good-Bye election!

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW WORK.--A Merry England in a Cat's Cradle, by the Author of Across England in a Dog-Cart.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VERY REVOLTING PLACE.--Brazil.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR FINANCIAL COLUMN.

I have been forced by the enormous increase of my business to take larger offices, and to engage
two hundred additional clerks to carry on my immense correspondence. I merely mention this
as it may be satisfactory to my countless well-wishers. But of course the old address--"CROESUS:
London" will still find me. I publish below a selection from the letters received during the week.

(1.) SIR,--You informed me in a private communication, that the Patent Spills Manufacturing
Co. stock was a splendid investment. Acting on this, I bought. From that moment, Spills have
fallen steadily. Kindly explain.

Yours,

INDIGNANT.

[To this I can only answer, that the complaint is ludicrous, and preposterous. If you had bought
on the day I advised, and sold out ten minutes afterwards, you would have realised a handsome
profit of one farthing a share. Moreover, how can anything fall steadily? I never did, which
shows what a fool "INDIGNANT" must be.

CROESUS.]

(2.) SIR,--I send £22,000 19s. 8¾d., which I wish tied up as tightly as possible in the Unlimited
Packthread Stock Company, which you say is as safe as a house. Let me know which particular
house you mean. The money belongs (or belonged) to my Maiden Aunt.

Yours sincerely,

BALIK RASH.

[Consider it done, my dear Sir; consider it done. I return the three farthings, for which I
have no possible use. The rest is invested. Transfers await your signature at my new office.

CROESUS.]

(3.) SIR,--I have saved £4 5s. 2d. during the last twenty years, and now send it to you in
the Automatic Toast and Muffin Distributor Co., which I see guarantees a return of 500 per
cent., with an anticipated increase of 200 per cent. from the sale of concessions in suburban
districts. "The Muffins," you say, "will always be kept at toasting point, and, by a novel
and ingenious arrangement, a perpetual supply of the best butter will spread itself over every
Muffin as it is distributed to the Public." I like this very much. Pray, therefore, place me
on toast to the enclosed amount.

Yours,

ONE IN THE SLOT.

[Have done what you wish. You have already cleared profit of over £500. We shall add buns and
crumpets to our business to-morrow, and tea-cakes on the following day, so as to place it in
everybody's power to take the cake, if he wants to.

CROESUS.]

I have little more to add this week, but I think it only right to hint that I am engaged in
perfecting the details of a scheme which will revolutionise finance. I am not allowed, at present,
to enter into full particulars, but I may say that I have been in close conference with the
very highest person in the world of finance, and that he is to submit my plan to the next Cabinet
Council. Briefly, when my scheme is floated, Consols will immediately go to par, and will be
converted into a security bearing ten per cent. interest--and this without a single penny being
added to the tax-payers' burdens. I have been authorised by the officials of the Treasury to
receive any investments that my readers may offer. Now, therefore, is your time. Next week
I may have to take a short holiday, owing to the strain on my nerves, caused by my numerous
anxieties. But the good work will go on as before.

"CROESUS LONDON."

       *       *       *       *       *

GLORY AT THE LOWEST PRICE.

    [There is nothing whatever to hinder a civilian from
    organising and managing an efficient army, and there are at
    any given moment a score of men in the City of London, who
    could carry out the work with perfect ease.--Daily Paper,
    November 19, 1891.]

    SCENE--The Army Universal Provision Company Limited (Managing
    Director, Mr. BLACKLEY). Enter Recruit in Department No.
    1. He looks round him surprised at the business-like activity
    that greets him on every side.

Foreman (politely). Anything I can do for you, Sir, to-day? We have an assortment of Queen's
Shillings fresh from the Mint. Curiosities, Sir, quite out of date, but interesting. Can I
tempt you?

Recruit (with some hesitation). Well, I thought of joining the Army, and--

Foreman (interrupting). Certainly, Sir. Doctor in that room. Magistrate in that. Be medically
passed and sworn to allegiance while you wait. (Ushers Recruit into various Departments--whence
he emerges duly enrolled.) And now, Sir, which branch of the Service would you like to see?

Recruit. Well, I did think of the Tenth Hussars.

Foreman (promptly). Quite right, Sir. First-class Regiment, commanded by His Royal Highness
Field Marshal the Prince of WALES. (To Assistant.) Show this gentleman the way to the outfitting-room--Tenth
Hussars.

    [Recruit in less than no time is fitted out. On his return
    to the Central Hall he is once more greeted by a principal
    official.

Foreman. Now, Sir, you would like to learn your drill?

Recruit. Well, yes--

Foreman. Quite so. We teach it in six easy lessons, at twelve shillings a lesson. You can pay
for it either out of your reserved pay, or now. If the latter, we allow five per cent. discount.

Recruit (without hesitation). I think I will pay it later.

Foreman (putting up his receipt-book). Certainly, Sir, No difference to us. And now, Sir, perhaps
you will take your lessons.

    [Recruit goes through a course which soon puts him to-rights.
    At the end he shakes Foreman warmly by the hand.

Recruit. You are sure that I really know my drill?

Foreman. Quite. Why, Sir, you are letter perfect. And now, is there anything more we can do
for you?

Recruit. Well, I did join the Army with the intention of going to the wars.

Foreman (apologetically). Very sorry, Sir, but we haven't the article on hand just at present.
Sure to have some by-and-by. Is there anything else we can do for you, Sir?

Recruit. Well, failing a war, I should like a passage to India.

Foreman (in a deprecatory tone). Well, Sir, frankly, we cannot recommend it. But if you have
made up your mind, we must ask you to step over to the Waste Department. They settle such-like
matters there. See over yonder, Sir, where that venerable General on crutches is. He has just
got a Colonelcy, but he can't hold it very long, as he is over eighty! And now I must say adieu,
as I have other pupils claiming my assistance. Good day!

    [Starts off, and prepares food for powder in other quarters.
    Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOARD ON BOTH SIDES.

    SCENE--A Railway Carriage. Present two Passengers
    discussing the Topics of the Day.

First Passenger. And then there's the School Board! I am on my way to record my vote.

Second Pass. And so am I. I hope, Sir, we are of both of the way of thinking?

First Pass. I hope so, too. My idea is to give the children of the poor every possible advantage.
Let them learn all they can. Yes, Sir, let them learn all they can.

Second Pass. (excitedly). But, my dear Sir, what can be the good of that? It will be of no
use to them in their future, and will only make them dissatisfied with their position.

First Pass. (calmly). Ah, my dear Sir, you evidently take a narrow view of the subject. Why
should not the poor enjoy equality with the rich? It is only the accident of birth that divides
the peasant from the Peer.

Second Pass. (obstinately). I do not care about the cause, I only look to the result--the rich
are divided from the poor. It is ridiculous that an orange-girl should play the piano, and
a ploughman paint a picture.

First Pass. (smiling). I do not see why. Surely the poor should have their little amusements?
And do we not have it on decent classical authority, "that Art polishes the manners, and renders
them less ferocious!"

Second Pass. (contemptuously). Ah! You take a sentimental view of it! Believe me, the people
would be all the better were they to receive a practical--a technical education--say were they
to be taught how to sweep chimneys, or to blacken boots!

First Pass. (complacently). They will engage in both those useful industries with the greater
gusto if they know that when they are at leisure they can understand MACAULAY or enjoy BEETHOVEN.

Second Pass. (with conviction). But you must admit that there is a good deal of waste. Consider
Mr. FORSTER calculated that the rate would be threepence in the pound, and now it's a shilling,
and will go higher still! Remember that Londoners pay far more dearly than citizens of many
provincial towns, for an article not one whit better.

First Pass. (with, a genial smile). Ah, I see you are quoting from the Press.

Second Pass. (earnestly). And why not? Is it true, or is it not, that money is squandered upon
rotten buildings, upon excessive salaries to teachers, and upon the provision of refinements
in education?

First Pass. (smiling). Still quoting! But if I admit that there is something in what you say,
is it not always the case? Have we ever unmixed good, or unmixed evil? And I contend that the
same advantages derivable from a School-Board education entirely compensate for a little loss.

Second Pass. (rather out of temper). Well, you take it calmly enough.

First Pass. (amiably). Why not? It is my theory that every child should have the best possible
education. The infant should have enough mental food to last him for life. It is our duty that
he should got it.

Second Pass. (with irritation). Well, at least you take an unselfish view of the case.

First Pass. (smiling sweetly). I don't see that! As a matter of fact, I am sufficiently successful
not to care for competition. I believe that I am first-rate in my own walk; and, however the
School Board may educate, they will not reach my standard.

Second Pass. (drily). I was not thinking of that, although it is a consideration. But how about
the rates, my dear Sir--the rates?

First Pass. (with a good-humoured laugh). Oh, bother the rates! I don't see where they come in.

Second Pass. (with ghastly jocularity). But I do--by the front door.

First Pass. (condescendingly). Tut, tut! But what have the rates to do with the matter?

Second Pass. (astonished). Why, at a shilling in the pound and more to follow, you must admit
they make a hole in a modest income?

