"Do not seek to console me," said Helen, "for such tears are salutary, my dear brother. I have
virtually said that the joys of religion are fading and unsatisfactory; I must sometimes seek
for others. I have quieted more than one uneasy conscience, by throwing the influence of a
professing Christian into the scale of the world. I have wandered from my Father's side to
the society of his rebel subjects. And yet I have cause to mourn less for this one transgression,
than for the alienation of heart, which led the way to it. Had I not fallen far, very far,
from the strength and purity of my earlier love, even your pleadings could not have moved me."

"But the Bible says nothing about such amusements, Helen."

"Not in words, perhaps, but in effect. Put the case to your own heart, Edward. Would you have
me choose for my companions those who treat you with neglect? Would you wish me to frequent
places, whence I should return, careless and cold in my manner toward you? Ah, brother! I loved
God once. I saw his hand in everything around me. I felt his presence perpetually, and trusted,
childlike, to his protecting arm. But now I regard him less, pray less, read less, and give
less." And then she revealed to her brother her beautiful experience--beautiful till she grew
negligent and formal--with a truth, an earnestness, a loving simplicity, that for the first
time gave him some insight into the nature of true piety.

"And now, dear Edward," she said, "read to me Christ's prayer to the people, that I may feel
sure that they prayed for me."

As she listened, the varying expressions of countenance indicated many and varied emotions.
Submission, sorrow, love, and faith--all were there. When Edward had finished they knelt together,
and Helen sorrowfully, yet hopefully, poured out her full soul in confession, and most touchingly
she besought the divine compassion upon her erring brother.

The carol of the birds went up with the whispered amen of the penitent, the blossoms of the
climbing honeysuckle sent in her fragrance, and the morning sun smiled on them as they rose
from prayer. The face of Helen reflected her inward gladness, and restored peace shone in her
dark eyes and tranquil countenance. "Thou art happier than I," said Edward, as he turned from
the chamber.

    THE SHADOW OF THE CROSS.

    "Aye, and the race is just begun,
    The world is all before me now,
    The sun is in the eastern sky,
    And long the shadows westward lie;
    In everything that meets my eye
    A splendor and a joy I mind
    A glory that is undesigned."
    Ah! youth, attempt that path with care,
    The shadow of the cross is there.

    "I've time," he said, "to rest awhile,
    And sip the fragrant wine of life,
    My lute to pleasure's halls I'll bring
    And while the sun ascends I'll sing,
    And all my world without shall ring
    Like merry chiming bells that peal
    Not half the rapture that they feel."
    Alas! he found but tangled moss,
    Above the shadow of the cross.

CHRIST OUR REFUGE

There were six cities in the land of Canaan which were set apart as places of refuge, to which
a man might flee if he had, either by accident or design, killed another. These cities were
easy of access. Three were on the west side of the river Jordan, and three on the east side.
Every year the roads leading to them were examined, to see that they were in good condition,
and that there was nothing in the way to stop the manslayer as he was running from his pursuer.
At different points there were the guide-boards, and on them were written, Refuge! Refuge!

If any man by accident killed another, and reached one of these cities before his pursuer,
he was allowed to stay there until the death of the high-priest who was then living. But if
in anger a man had purposely killed another, then, although he sought refuge in one of these
cities, he was given up to the avenger of blood to be slain. You will find more about these
cities and their names if you will read the thirty-fifth chapter of Numbers, the nineteenth
chapter of Deuteronomy, and the twentieth chapter of Joshua.

But what interest can boys and girls and all older persons have in these cities?

I will try to tell you. God has different ways of teaching. A great many things about which
we read in the Old Testament are what is called types. A type, in scripture language, means
a pattern or a likeness to a person who is to come, or to an event which is to take place.
It is supposed to point forward to something more valuable than itself. Thus, for example,
the blood of the lamb which was slain on the Jewish altar was a type, or a foreshowing, of
the crucifixion of Jesus Christ for our salvation. The paschal lamb, which was slain to commemorate
the deliverance of the Jews from the bondage of Egypt, and the lamb which was offered daily,
both morning and evening, in the service of the temple, were representations of the greater
sacrifice which Christ came from heaven to make for our salvation.

So the land of Canaan was a type of heaven. The lifting up of the brazen serpent on a pole
was a type of our Saviour's crucifixion; and the cities of refuge were a beautiful type of
Jesus Christ, who is the sinner's refuge.

You know, my dear children, that we have all sinned, and that we all need a place of safety.
The avenger says, "Thou shalt surely die." Escape for thy life. But that we may not die eternally,
God has given us the Bible as our guide-board; and the Bible is constantly pointing to Jesus
Christ as the sinner's refuge. He is our hiding-place.

The way to our city of refuge is plain. "I am the way," is the Saviour's own direction. The
gate is always open, and the assurance is, "Him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out."

I want you to remember, dear children, that it is a great deal easier to run to this city of
refuge when you are young, than it will be if you put it off until you are older. The promise
of the Saviour is, "Those that seek me early shall find me." Will you not seek him when he
may be found? How sad it will be if you neglect to do so. You will need a refuge when the tempest
of God's judgments shall burst upon the wicked.

    THE MASTER'S HAND.

    "In the still air the music lies unheard;
    In the rough marble beauty hides unseen;
    To make the music and the beauty needs
    A master's touch, the sculptor's chisel keen.

    Great Master, touch us with Thy skilled hand:
    Let not the music that is in us die!
    Great Sculptor, hew and polish us, nor let
    Hidden and lost, Thy form within us lie!

    Spare not the stroke! Do with us as thou wilt!
    Let there be naught unfinished, broken, marred;
    Complete Thy purpose, that we may become
    Thy perfect image, Thou our God and Lord!"

TOM'S TRIAL.

It was a pleasant day in that particularly pleasant part of the summer time, which the boys
call "vacation," when Tiger and Tom walked slowly down the street together. You may think it
strange that I mention Tiger first, but I assure you Tom would not have been in the least offended
by the preference. Indeed, he would have assured you that Tiger was a most wonderful dog, and
knew as much as any two boys, though this might be called extravagant.

Nearly a year ago, on Tom's birthday, Tiger arrived as a present from Tom's uncle, and as he
leaped with a dignified bound from the wagon in which he made his journey, Tom looked for a
moment into his great, wise eyes, and impulsively threw his arms around his shaggy neck. Tiger,
on his part, was pleased with Tom's bright face, and most affectionately licked his smooth
cheeks. So the league of friendship was complete in an hour.

Tom had a pleasant, round face, and you might live with him a week, and think him one of the
noblest, most generous boys you ever knew. But some day you would probably discover that he
had a most violent temper. You would be frightened to see his face crimson with rage, as he
stamped his feet, shook his little sister, spoke improperly to his mother, and above all, displeased
his great Father in heaven.

Now I am going to tell you of one great trial on this account, which Tom never forgot to the
end of his life. Tiger and Tom were walking down the street together, when they met Dick Casey,
a school-fellow of Tom's.

"O Dick!" cried Tom, "I'm going to father's grain store a little while. Let's go up in the
loft and play."

Dick had just finished his work in his mother's garden, and was all ready for a little amusement.
So the two went up together, and enjoyed themselves highly for a long time. But at last arose
one of those trifling disputes, in which little boys are so apt to indulge. Pretty soon there
were angry words, then (Oh, how sorry I am to say it!), Tom's wicked passions got the mastery
of him, and he beat little Dick severely. Tiger, who must have been ashamed of his master,
pulled hard at his coat, and whined piteously, but all in vain. At last Tom stopped, from mere
exhaustion.

"There, now!" he cried, "which is right, you or I?"

"I am," sobbed Dick, "and you tell a lie."

Tom's face flushed crimson, and darting upon Dick, he gave him a sudden push. Alas! he was
near to the open door. Dick screamed, threw up his arms, and in a moment was gone. Tom's heart
stood still, and an icy chill crept over him from head to foot. At first he could not stir;
then--he never knew how he got there, but he found himself standing beside his little friend.
Some men were raising him carefully from the hard sidewalk.

"Is he dead?" almost screamed Tom.

"No," replied one, "we hope not. How did he fall out?"

"He didn't fall," groaned Tom, who never could be so mean as to tell a lie, "I pushed him out."

"You pushed him, you wicked boy," cried a rough voice. "Do you know you ought to be sent to
jail, and if he dies, maybe you'll be hung."

Tom grew as white as Dick, whom he had followed into the store, and he heard all that passed
as if in a dream.

"Is he badly hurt?" cried some one.

"Only his hands," was the answer. "The rope saved him, he caught hold of the rope and slipped
down; but his hands are dreadfully torn--he has fainted from pain."

Just then Tom's father came in, and soon understood the case. The look he gave at his unhappy
son, so full of sorrow, not unmingled with pity, was too much for Tom, and he stole out, followed
by the faithful Tiger. He wandered to the woods, and threw himself upon the ground. One hour
ago he was a happy boy, and now what a terrible change! What has made the difference? Nothing
but the indulgence of this wicked, violent temper. His mother had often warned him of the fearful
consequences. She had told him that little boys who would not learn to govern themselves, grew
up to be very wicked men, and often became murderers in some moment of passion. And now, Tom
shuddered to think he was almost a murderer! Nothing but God's great mercy in putting that
rope in Dick's way, had saved him from carrying that load of sorrow and guilt all the rest
of his life. But poor Dick, he might die yet--how pale he looked--how strange! Tom fell upon
his knees, and prayed God to "spare Dick's life," and from that time forth, with God's help,
he promised that he would strive to conquer this wicked passion.

Then, as he could no longer bear his terrible suspense, he started for Widow Casey's cottage.
As he appeared at the humble door, Mrs. Casey angrily ordered him away, saying: "You have made
a poor woman trouble enough for one day." But Dick's feeble voice entreated, "O mother, let
him come in; I was just as bad as he."

Tom gave a cry of joy at hearing these welcome tones, and sprang hastily in. There sat poor
Dick with his hands bound up, looking very pale, but Tom thanked God that he was alive.

"I should like to know how I am to live now," sighed Mrs. Casey. "Who will weed the garden,
and carry my vegetables to market? I am afraid we shall suffer for bread before the summer
is over," and she put her apron to her eyes.

"Mrs. Casey," cried Tom, eagerly, "I will do everything that Dick did. I will sell the potatoes
and beans, and will drive Mr. Brown's cows to pasture."

Mrs. Casey shook her head incredulously, but Tom bravely kept his word. For the next few weeks
Tom was at his post bright and early, and the garden was never kept in better order. And every
morning Tiger and Tom stood faithfully in the market-place with their baskets, and never gave
up, no matter how warm the day, till the last vegetable was sold, and the money placed faithfully
in Mrs. Casey's hand.

Tom's father often passed through the market, and gave his little son an encouraging smile,
but he did not offer to help him out of his difficulty, for he knew if Tom struggled on alone,
it would be a lesson he would never forget. Already he was becoming so gentle and patient,
that every one noticed the change, and his mother rejoiced over the sweet fruits of his repentance
and self-sacrifice.

After a few weeks the bandages were removed from Dick's hands, but they had been unskilfully
treated, and were drawn up in very strange shapes. Mrs. Casey could not conceal her grief.
"He will never be the help he was before," she said to Tom, "he will never be like other boys,
and he wrote such a fine hand, now he can no more make a letter than that little chicken in
the garden."

"If we only had a great city doctor," said a neighbor, "he might have been all right. Even
now his fingers might be helped if you should take him to New York."

"Oh, I am too poor, too poor," said she, and burst into tears.

Tom could not bear it, and again rushed into the woods to think what could be done, for he
had already given them all his quarter's allowance. All at once a thought flashed into his
head, and he started as if he had been shot. Then he cried in great distress:--

"No, no, anything but that, I can't do that!"

Tiger gently licked his hands, and watched him with great concern. Now came a great struggle.
Tom stroked him backward and forward, and although he was a proud boy, he sobbed aloud. Tiger
whined, licked his face, rushed off into dark corners, and barked savagely at some imaginary
enemy, and then came back, and putting his paws on Tom's knees, wagged his tail in anxious
sympathy. At last Tom took his hands from his pale, tear-stained face, and looking into the
dog's great honest eyes, he cried with a queer shake of his voice:--

"Tiger, old fellow! dear old dog, could you ever forgive me if I sold you?"

Then came another burst of sorrow, and Tom rose hastily, as if afraid to trust himself, and
almost ran out of the woods. Over the fields he raced, with Tiger close at his heels, nor rested
a moment till he stood at Major White's door, nearly two miles away.

"Do you still want Tiger, sir?"

"Why yes," said the old man in great surprise, "but do you want to sell him?"

"Yes, please," gasped Tom, not daring to look at his old companion. The exchange was quickly
made, and the ten dollars in Tom's hand. Tiger was beguiled into a barn, and the door hastily
shut, and Tom was hurrying off, when he turned and cried in a choking voice--

"You will be kind to him, Major White, won't you? Don't whip him, I never did, and he's the
best dog--"

"No, no, child," said Major White, kindly; "I'll treat him like a prince, and if you ever want
to buy him back, you shall have him." Tom managed to falter, "Thank you," and almost flew out
of hearing of Tiger's eager scratching on the barn door.

I am making my story too long, and can only tell you in a few words that Tom's sacrifice was
accepted. A friend took little Dick to the city free of expense, and Tom's money paid for the
necessary operation. The poor crooked fingers were very much improved, and were soon almost
as good as ever. And the whole village loved Tom for his brave, self-sacrificing spirit, and
the noble atonement he had made for his moment of passion.

A few days after Dick's return came Tom's birthday, but he did not feel in his usual spirits.
In spite of his great delight in Dick's recovery, he had so mourned over the matter, and had
taken Tiger's loss so much to heart, that he had grown quite pale and thin. So, as he was permitted
to spend the day as he pleased, he took his books and went to his favorite haunt in the woods.

"How different from my last birthday," thought Tom. "Then Tiger had just come, and I was so
happy, though I didn't like him half so well as I do now." Tom sighed heavily; then added more
cheerfully, "Well, I hope some things are better than they were last year. I hope I have begun
to conquer myself, and with God's help I will never give up trying while I live. Now if I could
only earn money enough to buy back dear old Tiger." While Tom was busied with these thoughts
he heard a hasty, familiar trot, a quick bark of joy, and the brave old dog sprang into Tom's arms.

"Tiger, old fellow," cried Tom, trying to look fierce, though he could scarcely keep down the
tears, "how came you to run away, sir?"

Tiger responded by picking up a letter he had dropped in his first joy, and laying it in Tom's
hand:--

"My Dear Child: Tiger is pining, and I must give him a change of air. I wish him to have a
good master, and knowing that the best ones are those who have learned to govern themselves,
I send him to you. Will you take care of him and greatly oblige

"Your old friend, Major White."

Tom then read through a mist of tears--

"P. S. I know the whole story. Dear young friend, 'Be not weary in well-doing.'"

    WHAT COUNTS.

THE PREMIUM.

"I think I am sure of one premium at least," said Edward, as he placed himself upon the form
among his school-fellows.

It was examination day, and many a young heart was beating quick with the hope of approbation
and reward, or with the fear of disgrace. Some had looked forward to this day, and applied
to their tasks, knowing how carefully they should be examined, and commended or punished according
to their deservings. Others had chosen to forget that such a day must come, and idled away
the time which they would now have given a great deal to have at their disposal again.

In the center of the schoolroom was placed a long table, covered with books of various sizes
and of different value. There were Bibles and Testaments, both large and small, the histories
of Rome, of Greece, and of England. There were volumes elegantly bound and pamphlets just stitched
together. The school was extensive, and it was wished that every one who had exerted himself
to the best of his ability, however little that might be, should carry home with him some mark
of encouragement, to remind him that diligence and perseverance were not overlooked.

Like the servants to whom the Lord entrusted the talents, some had five, and some had but one,
yet these last could not be excused for hiding and neglecting it because it was small; even
the youngest and the simplest child at school may make something of the reason and opportunities
which the Lord has given him to improve.

With anxious hearts and busy faces the boys arranged themselves around the table; and were
examined with great care and patience by their teachers, as to the progress they had made in
their studies.

Now, Edward had set his heart on one particular premium, the Roman History, neatly bound, and
making two very pretty volumes, which he thought would handsomely fill up a vacant space on
his little book-shelves. He allowed himself to think of this until no other prize was of any
value in his sight, a great fault, often committed by children, and grown people, too; who
instead of thankfully receiving whatever the bounty of Providence assigns them, would choose
for themselves; and become discontented and unhappy in the midst of blessings, because the
wisdom of God sees fit to withhold some one thing that their folly deems necessary to their
happiness.

Edward passed his examination with much credit, and one of the first premiums was adjudged
to him; but instead of the Roman History, a very neat Bible, in excellent large type, was placed
in his hands. Many of his schoolmates had wished for that Bible, but Edward regarded it not;
and the eyes of the foolish boy filled with tears, as he saw the elegant history of Rome presented
to another, who, perhaps, would gladly have exchanged with him.

The next day Edward returned home and related his disappointment to his parents, who thought
his desire for the Roman History a mark of great learning and taste; but since he had distinguished
himself so well they did not much care what prize he received.

Edward's father lived in the country, not far from the seaside, in a most delightful and healthy
situation; and at this time his mother's brother, who was in a very sickly state, had just
arrived there to enjoy the benefit of the sea-breezes, and rest a little from the toil and
bustle of his employments in London.

Mr. Lewis was a young man of the most pleasing manners and appearance. He was very gentle and
serious, but not at all gloomy or severe. His bad health only served to show forth his patience
in enduring it without a murmuring word or discontented look; and Edward, who was really a
kind-hearted and affectionate boy, soon became very much attached to his uncle, who had not
seen him since he was an infant, and who was much pleased at the attentions his nephew delighted
to pay him.

Young hearts are soon won; and it was only three days after Edward's return from school, that
he went bounding over the grounds in search of his uncle, whose society he already preferred
to his hoop and ball.

Mr. Lewis was seated under a fine old oak-tree, the high and knotted roots of which served
as a seat; while the soft moss, interspersed with many delicate little flowers, was like a
carpet beneath his feet. A rich and extensive tract of country lay spread before his eyes;
and, at a distance the mighty ocean bounded the prospect, whose deep green waters were seen
in beautiful contrast with the pale yellow cliff, that with a graceful, yet abrupt curve, interrupted
the view to the right. Thin clouds were floating past the sun every now and then, and threw
all the varieties of light and shade upon the lovely scene below.

Mr. Lewis had a book in his hand, into which he frequently looked, and then raised his eyes
again to gaze upon the varieties that surrounded him; and so intent he seemed, that Edward
doubted whether he ought to disturb him, until his uncle, seeing him at some little distance,
kindly beckoned him to come near.

"Is not this a pretty place, uncle?" said Edward, as he seated himself beside him; "and do
you not find the breeze from the water very refreshing?"

"It is beautiful indeed, my dear boy; and I am deriving both refreshment and instruction while
I look around me."

"Is that a Bible, uncle?"

"Yes. It is God's word, which I always find the best commentary upon his works; they explain
each other."

"I love the Bible too, uncle," said Edward, "and I got much credit for my answering on Scripture
questions last half-year."

"And which, Edward, afforded you the greater satisfaction, the Scriptures, or the credit you
got for studying them?"

Edward looked a little embarrassed and did not immediately reply.

"It is quite right to take pleasure in the well-earned approbation of your teachers," continued
Mr. Lewis, "and I was glad to hear that you obtained a premium at the last examination also."

"Yes, uncle, but not the prize I wished for. There was a Roman History that I should have liked
better, and it was just of equal value with the Bible that I got."

"How of equal value, Edward?"

"I mean that it was not reckoned a higher prize, and it would have been a nicer book for me."

"Then you had a Bible already?"

"Why, no, uncle, not of my own, but it is easy to borrow one on the Sabbath; and I had gone
through all my Scripture proofs, and do not want it on other days."

"Read these four verses for me," said Mr. Lewis, pointing to the sixth chapter of Deuteronomy
"commencing with the sixth verse."

"To whom was this command given, Edward?"

"To the Jews, uncle."

"Yes; and the word of God, which cannot pass away, is as much binding on us as on them, in
everything excepting the sacrifices and ceremonies, which foreshowed the coming of the Lord
Jesus Christ, and which were done away with, by his death's fulfilling all those types and
shadows."

"Then," said Edward, "we are commanded to write the Bible on our hands and on our door-posts."

"No, my dear boy, not literally, but in a figure of speech; as the Lord, when declaring he
never will forget Zion, says, 'I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls are
continually before me.' The meaning of the passage you first read is that we must have the
word of God as continually present to our minds as anything written on our hands, and on every
object around us, would be to our bodily sight. And how are we to get our thoughts so occupied
by it, Edward?"

"By continually reading it, I suppose," replied Edward, rather sullenly.

"By reading it often, and meditating on it much," said his uncle; "and that we can do without
interfering with our other business. Without prayer you cannot obtain any spiritual blessing,
nor maintain any communion with God; and without reading the Scriptures you will have but little
desire to pray. We are like people wandering in the dark, while the Bible is as a bright lamp
held out to direct us in the only safe path. You cannot be a child of God if you do not his
will; you cannot do it unless you know it, and it is by the Bible he is pleased to communicate
that knowledge. Do you begin to see, Edward, that the Bible is more suitable to be an every-day
book than your profane history?"

"Why, yes, uncle; but the Bible is a grave book, and if I read it so constantly I never should
be merry."

"There is no merriment among the lost, Edward; and that dreadful lot will be your portion if
you neglect the great salvation which the Scriptures set forth. Besides, there is no foundation
for what you suppose to be the effect of reading the Bible. I have known people naturally melancholy
and discontented, to become cheerful and happy by studying it; but I never in my life saw an
instance of a person's becoming unhappy because he had a good hope of going to heaven."

Edward paused a moment, and then said, "Uncle, I remember it is written concerning wisdom,
that 'her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.'"

"Most true, my dear boy, 'quietness and assurance forever' is the portion of God's people.

"O, no, uncle; and I often wonder that you, who suffer so much pain, and read the Bible constantly,
are not melancholy."

"How can I be melancholy, Edward, when the Bible tells me that all these things are working
together for my spiritual good? that He who spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for
us all, will with him also freely give us all things? When I think of what my sins deserve,
and see the Lamb of God bearing the chastisement that should fall on me, how can I be melancholy?
When I feel that the Spirit of God is bringing these things to my remembrance, and enabling
me to love the Lord Jesus, who has done so much for me, must I not rejoice? I know that in
me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing; and since God has promised forgiveness to
all who seek that blessing through his Son; and since I feel assured that I have sought that
blessing, and feel peace and joy in believing, surely the song of praise, not the moan of lamentation,
becomes me. Yet I do lament, Edward, daily lament, my many offenses against God; but I am assured
that Christ's blood cleanseth from all sin, and that in him I have a powerful and all-prevailing
Advocate with the Father. I know in whom I have believed, and that he will never cast off nor
forsake me. I am sinking into the grave, but I do not shrink from that prospect, because the
bitterness of death is taken away by my Saviour, who died for my sins, and rose again for my
justification; and though this body returns to dust, I shall live again, and enter into the
presence of my Redeemer, and rejoice there evermore."

Edward looked at the animated countenance of his uncle, and then cast down his eyes; they were
full of tears. At last he said, "Uncle, indeed I am a very sinful boy, neglecting the Bible,
because I know it would show me my sin, and the consequences of it. But I will trifle no more
with God's displeasure. I will get that precious Bible, worth a thousand Roman histories, and
I will read it daily, with prayer, that I may be wise unto salvation."

Mr. Lewis did not live long after this. He died, rejoicing in hope of eternal life; and as
often as Edward was permitted to return home from his school, he was to be seen under the old
oak, with the Bible in his hand, from which he learned more and more the will of his God and
Saviour--the utter sinfulness of his own nature--his inability to help himself; and from this
holy word he learned to place all his dependence on the righteousness of his Saviour--to follow
the example of his Saviour, in prayer, in resignation, and in doing good to the poor around him.

He often thought of his dear uncle, and counted that day happy when he sat to listen to his
kind advice, which, as a means, brought him to a knowledge of himself and of his heavenly Father.

    OUR NEIGHBORS.

    "Somebody near you is struggling alone
      Over life's desert sand;
    Faith, hope, and courage together are gone;
      Reach him a helping hand;
    Turn on his darkness a beam of your light;
    Kindle, to guide him, a beacon fire bright;
    Cheer his discouragement, soothe his affright,
      Lovingly help him to stand.

    Somebody near you is hungry and cold;
      Send him some aid to-day;
    Somebody near you is feeble and old,
      Left without human stay.
    Under his burdens put hands kind and strong;
    Speak to him tenderly, sing him a song;
    Haste to do something to help him along
      Over his weary way.

    Dear one, be busy, for time fleeth fast,
      Soon it will all be gone;
    Soon will our season of service be past,
      Soon will our day be done.
    Somebody near you needs now a kind word;
    Some one needs help, such as you can afford;
    Haste to assist in the name of the Lord;
      There may be a soul to be won."

A KIND WORD.

    Within each soul the God above
    Plants the rich jewel,--human love.
    The fairest gem that graces youth
    Is love's companion,--fearless truth.

William and Henry were clerks in a large wholesale establishment. They met one morning on their
way to the store and proceeded together. After talking awhile on various subjects, the following
dialogue took place:--

"By the way, William," said Henry, "I understand you were last evening at ----'s," naming a
fashionable billiard saloon.

"A mistake, Henry. I was never in a billiard saloon."

"Well, I thought it very strange when I heard it."

"Why so?"

"Why?" said Henry in astonishment. "Why, because you are a religious young man and a church
member."

"Do you ever visit such places, Henry?"

"Oh, yes; but that is quite a different matter. I don't profess to be a Christian, you know."

"You would think it wrong for me to be there?"

"Of course I should."

"And right for you?"

"Well, yes; there's no harm in my being there."

"Why not?"

"Why, because--because I do not profess to be bound by the same obligations that you are."

"And who has released you from those same obligations and imposed them upon me?"

"Oh, well, now, there's no use in talking, William; you know that Christians do not and ought
not to engage in what they consider pernicious amusements."

"I certainly do know that they ought not; but I wish to know why it is wrong for them and right
for others."

"You know the fact that it is so."

"No, I do not know that it is; and I wish to call your attention to the truth that the obligation
to refrain from evil rests upon every rational human being in a Christian land, for God has
commanded all men to love and obey him; also, to the fact that the difference between the Christian
and the sinner is that one acknowledges the obligation, while the other denies it; and that
the denial does not remove the obligation. God has not invited you to love him if you prefer
to do so; but he has absolutely commanded you and me to love and obey him. I have the right,
if you have, to engage in any kind of amusement, and to follow my inclinations in all things;
and it is your duty, equally with mine, to honor our Master's law by shunning every wicked
way. Think of this, friend Henry, I entreat you, and acknowledge the responsibility which you
cannot remove; and from which, after accepting, you will not desire to be released."

They had arrived at the store, and each went to his own department. These young men had entered
the employment of A. B. & Sons at the same time, about two years before the above conversation
occurred. William had gained the confidence of his employers, and had risen in position. The
senior partner intended retiring from business, and was looking about for a Christian young
man of ability and energy to propose as a partner for his sons; and had lately been thinking
of William as a suitable person. He had observed him closely, and thought he saw in him the
habits and qualifications necessary to make a successful business man.

He had also been watching Henry's course. He had heard of him at places where a young man who
aspires to positions of truth and honor will never be seen, and was about proposing his discharge
to the other members of the firm. He knew that a clerk whose style of living requires more
money than his salary gives him will be very likely, indeed almost sure, to resort to dishonest
practices to make up the deficiency. Instances of this kind are every day occurring in our
cities; and as long as we meet, as we may every morning and evening in the Broadway stages,
dainty looking young men, dressed in finer and fresher broadcloth than their employers wear,
with heavy gold chains, fine chronometers, and diamond pins and rings, we may expect to hear
of a great many more.

That morning's conversation made a deep impression upon Henry's mind. The subject had never
been presented to him in that light before. He had imagined, as young persons are apt to suppose,
that no moral responsibility rested upon him till he assumed it publicly by uniting with the
church. Henry did not mean to die a sinner. Oh, no; he fully intended, after he had enjoyed
what he considered the pleasures of youth, to settle down into Christian manhood. After this
talk with William he could not get rid of the idea of accountability to his God. His wicked
amusements and extravagant habits appeared to him as they never had done before, and he began
to see their inevitable tendency. The result was an entire change in his aims and conduct.
This was so marked that it very soon became known to all of his associates, and, of course,
to his employers.

He remained in that house; gradually rising to the highest clerkship, and, finally, becoming
the junior partner of the firm of which William had for some time been a member. His happiness
and prosperity he always attributed to the word kindly spoken at the right time by his fellow
clerk. He has been successful not only as a merchant, but as a Christian, exerting a powerful
influence for good upon all about him, but particularly upon the young men employed in his house.

    "Live for something! All created
    Nature doth reciprocate
    Her kindness. Should the animated
    This great law invalidate?
    Rather show thy grateful praises
    To thy God who reigns above,
    In acts that Sorrow's soul releases--
    'Words of kindness,' 'deeds of love.'"

ANOTHER COMMANDMENT

A new presiding elder, Mr. N., was expected in the district; and as all the ministers stopped
with Brother W. and his wife, every preparation was made to give him a cordial reception. The
honest couple thought that religion in that part consisted in making parade, and therefore
the parlor was put in order, a nice fire was made, and the kitchen replenished with cake, chickens,
and every delicacy, preparatory to cooking. While Mr. W. was out at the wood-pile, a plain-looking,
coarsely dressed, but quiet-like pedestrian, came along and asked the distance to the next
town. He was told it was three miles. Being very cold, he asked permission to enter and warm
himself. Assent was given very grudgingly, and both went into the kitchen. The wife looked
daggers at this untimely intrusion, for the stranger had on cowhide boots, an old hat, and
a threadbare, but neatly patched coat. At length she gave him a chair beside the Dutch oven
which was baking nice cakes for the presiding elder, who was momentarily expected, as he was
to preach the next day at the church a mile or two beyond.

The stranger, after warming himself, prepared to leave, but the weather became inclement, and
as his appetite was aroused by the viands about the fire, he asked for some little refreshment
ere he set out for a cold walk to the town beyond. Mrs. W. was displeased, but on consultation
with her husband, cold bacon and bread were set out on an old table, and he was somewhat gruffly
told to eat. It was growing dark, and hints were thrown out that the stranger had better depart,
as it was three long miles to town.

The homely meal was at last concluded--the man thanked him kindly for the hospitality he had
received, and opened the door to go. But it was quite dark and the clouds denoting a storm
filled the heavens.

"You say it is full three miles to D----?"

The particular form in which this request was made, and the tone in which it was uttered, put
it out of the farmer's heart to say no.

"Go in there and sit down," he answered, pointing to the kitchen, "and I will see my wife and
hear what she says."

The tall mold candles were burning thereon, and on the hearth blazed a cheerful fire.

"Hasn't that old fellow gone yet?" asked Mrs. W. She heard his voice as he returned from the door.

"No, and what do you suppose, he wants us to let him stay all night."

"Indeed, we will do no such thing. We cannot have the likes of him in the house now. Where
could he sleep?"

"Not in the best room, even if Mr. N. did not come."

"No, indeed!"

