The August afternoon was closing, and the shadows grew strong here where vines knit the trees
into close brotherhood. Lena lay back in her chair and clutched her treasure in a kind of stupor,
until, in an incredibly short time Ram Juna again appeared, tucking a scrap of yellow paper
into some inner pouch as he came. The Buddha smile still played about his lips. He seated himself
on the ground and stared unblinkingly at the girl, and she gazed almost as fixedly back, except
that once in a while her eyes wandered to the big red stone which still hung in the turban
on the table. Ten minutes--fifteen minutes--they sat in silence, as though the Swami enjoyed
the experience, then the bronze man rose and moved slowly toward her.

"Awake!" he whispered. "You must never forget that you wrote your husband's name when you had
not the right. Ah, in India, our knaves are not also fools."

There was a sudden sharp noise and a cry in the garden behind the hedge; and the Swami leaped
into attention with the swift motionlessness of a wild animal. Lena roused herself heavily
and blinked about. There was no Swami to be seen. His turban lay on the table, but he himself
had disappeared in a twinkling. She heard a rush of feet and voices raised in excitement and
then a sharp command. Even while she listened, confused, a blue-coated starred man appeared
at the opening in the hedge and over his shoulder she saw Mr. Early's face, startled out of
its decorum into bewildered anxiety.

"Beg pardon, miss," said the officer. "Have you seen anything of that nigger preacher?"

"The Swami?" asked Lena.

The man nodded.

"He was here a moment ago--at least I think he was. I--I'm not sure. And he seems to have gone
away. I don't know where he is." She looked vaguely around.

"Left this in his hurry, I guess," said the man, taking possession of the turban. "He must
be hiding somewhere near. With your permission, I will search the house, miss," and he moved
off without waiting for the said permission.

"Mrs. Percival," said Mr. Early.

"Beg pardon, Mrs. Percival," the man threw back with an added air of respect. "It is an unpleasant
duty, ma'am, but you'll not object, I know." He beckoned sharply to two or three others who
stood behind Mr. Early, and turned toward the open door.

"What does all this mean, Mr. Early?" Lena gasped.

He tumbled as if exhausted into the same easy chair that Ram Juna had occupied a few moments
before.

"I am completely staggered," he exclaimed. "The police seem to think they have reason to suspect
my guest of being implicated with a gang of counterfeiters. In fact they say that it is his
extraordinary cunning of hand that produced the bills that have been appearing everywhere.
And--great heavens!--he used my house as--as--as a fence! My house! Pardon me, my dear Mrs.
Percival, but I am horribly upset. They've found dies and all kinds of queer things in the
little room that he kept sacred to his meditations. But of course I can't be suspected of knowing.
Why, all my servants can bear testimony to the fact that I know nothing about that room."

"Of course, Mr. Early, no one would think of accusing you."

"Still, my house, you know--and my friend. It's horrible!" In fact Mr. Early was shivering
as though he had the ague. "It would drive me mad if any one should think--why, Mrs. Percival,
think of the scandal of having him with me for months. Of course, if they catch him, I'll make
him clear me at once. But, take it how you will, it is awful. The least I can expect is to
be laughed at over the whole civilized world for being his dupe. I've always prided myself
on my clean skirts. You think I'm raving, Mrs. Percival. I am nearly mad." Mr. Early suddenly
leaped up with horror newly reborn in his eyes. "And I had just given him a large check. That
is bound to look bad. There is no knowing how it may be misconstrued. Great heavens, what am
I to do?"

Lena flushed.

"I'm afraid that check was for me," she said. "Mr. Early, I want to thank you--for--for being
so generous to me; and when Dick comes back from North Dakota, he will repay you at once."

Mr. Early caught himself up and remembered that he had a part to play in the present drama.

"When Dick comes back," he said in a stupefied way, "what do you mean by 'when Dick comes back'?
Isn't he here now? Why, he must be. It isn't an hour since he signed--"

"Didn't you know he was away?" asked Lena timidly, her heart sinking, for Mr. Early's tone
was sharp.

"I certainly thought he signed a note made out to me. Was it another piece of the Swami's clever
forgery?"

"He--I--" cried poor Lena in confusion. "Oh, Mr. Early, do you call it forgery?--my own husband's
name? Oh, I--oh, Mr. Early, what are you thinking?" At this moment she was the picture of confused
innocence.

Mr. Early looked at her and gave a long-drawn breath of astonishment.

"I understand," he said at last, while Lena hung her head. "You wrote Dick's name for him,
and he knows nothing about it. Well, let it go at that. It is a matter of no consequence. And,
my dear Mrs. Percival, I would suggest that this matter be kept a secret between you and me.
We'll never mention the debt again. I'm sure you will accept the rubies as a little gift from
one of the most humble of your admirers." He bent forward and kissed her finger-tips in his
most gallant manner.

"Oh, Mr. Early, you are so good!" Lena's voice expressed manifest relief. The memory came back
to her of what Ram Juna had said about the bond created by favor. It flashed into her mind,
"He thinks it is sweet and innocent and womanly in me to do such a thing in ignorance. Dick
would think so, too. How should I know?"

"But suppose Dick shouldn't like to have me take them from you, such a magnificent gift?"

"I would suggest," Mr. Early's manner was regaining some of its self-possession, "that you
speak of the necklace--is that it in your hand? a really wonderful thing, with curious settings,
carved by hand--as I was saying, I would suggest that you speak of it as a gift from the Swami,
who, as is well known, was much impressed by your charms. A present from such a creature, who
hardly comes into the category of ordinary men, would create no such remark as might a gift
from me. Do you not see? We will let the truth remain a little secret between us two. I have
an idea that we shall not be likely to see Ram Juna again. I fancy he is a fellow of greater
cunning than any of us dreamed; and if he has a little start of the detectives, I doubt if
they have so much as a glimpse of his heels; though, to be sure, he is rather a marked figure,
and difficult to disguise. Now don't forget. The Swami, with oriental profuseness, gave you
the rubies."

"You are a dear," gushed Lena. "Oh, I do hope he is gone!" After all, it was a relief that
Dick should not know.

"One favor I must ask, my dear Mrs. Percival," Mr. Early went on hesitatingly. "If, by any
chance, Dick should ever come to know of this, will you assure him that I supposed his signature
to be genuine? I wouldn't have him suspect that I--that I was a party--or at least that I knew
that you wrote it for him. For really, little woman, it wasn't strictly honest, you know."

"I'm afraid it wasn't," Lena confessed with charming blushes. "But I didn't think. I don't
know much about such things, you know."

"Of course you don't. No nice woman does," said Mr. Early comfortingly. "And now let us forget it."

"Here come the officers," said Lena.

"It ain't no use," said the captain disgustedly. "He's given us the slip, somehow. And we'd
watched the house and made sure we'd nab him."

"What are you going to do?" asked Mr. Early.

