In the mean time Mr. Moens remained with his captors, sharing all their perils and privations,
and making perforce the most faithful study ever made of their life. It must be confessed that
the picture has few features attractive to people at peace with society. Most of the brigands
are men who have placed themselves beyond the law by some hideous crime,--or misfortune, as
they would call it in Naples,--and in other cases they are idle ruffians, who have taken to
robbery because they like it. They generally look forward to a time when, having placed a sufficient
amount of money at interest, they can surrender themselves to the authorities, pass a few comfortable
years in prison, and issue forth ornaments to society. To be sure, this scheme is subject to
chances. They are hunted by the soldiers, day and night, like wild beasts; and, if taken under
arms, are shot without trial. Half the time they are without food, and suffer the agonies of
hunger and thirst; and they are always without shelter, except such as trees or caverns can
give. When they have anything, they "eat their bread with carefulness, and drink their water
with astonishment,"--quarrelling over it a good deal, and trying to steal from one another.
When they have nothing, they buckle their belts tighter, and bear it as best they may.

Mr. Moens, who fared no better than the rest, does not seem to have fared much worse. Indeed,
he was much more comfortably situated than the ladies of the band, who, being dressed as men,
were armed and obliged to fight like their comrades, and yet had no share of the spoils, but
received many more cuffs and hard words than we, who have only seen them in pictures, can well
associate with the idea of brigandesses.

Being poor ignorant peasants originally, and being afterwards poor ignorant robbers, the brigands
inflicted little unnecessary suffering upon their prisoner. Occasionally, to be sure, they
struck him; but this was in hot blood, and he was allowed to strike back and restore the balance
of justice. These wretched creatures, imbruted and stained with innumerable murders, seem to
have had very little idea of the usages of civilized people in regard to captives; and any
one who will compare the story of Mr. Moens with the narratives of the prisoners given in Mr.
Abbott's book, will see how absurdly the bandits neglected their advantages. After all, it
is your high-toned Southern gentleman, compact of the best blood of the Cavaliers and the Huguenots,
and presenting in this unhappy hemisphere the finest reflection of the English nobleman's character,
who understands best how to use a prisoner. There is nothing like having in your power from
childhood a number of helpless human beings, to teach you how to treat a captured enemy; and
we cannot help thinking that Mrs. Moens, who will not spare the American Unionists a sneer
in the first chapter of her diary, would have understood us better if her husband had been
in the hands of Captain Wirz instead of Captain Manzo. Had Mr. Moens been a soldier of the
Union, taken while fighting to defend his country against rebellion, he would have been carried
into the midst of a people inured to the practice of cruelty by slavery, and all the more abominable
because they believed themselves Christian and civilized. There he would have been thrust into
a roofless close, already densely thronged with thousands of famished, sick, and maddened men.
He would have had no shelter from the blazing sun or drenching storm, except such as the happier
wild creatures make themselves in holes and burrows.