About this time Mr. Gladstone succeeded Lord Stanley in England as the Secretary of State for
the Colonies; and as he had shortly afterwards to complain that, in reporting on these and
other important matters, Sir Eardley had sent home vague statements for the purpose of deceiving
the Imperial authorities, the Governor was recalled. But he was destined never to leave the
scene of his troubles; for, two or three months after his recall, he became ill and died in
the colony.

#5. Denison and the Transportation Question.#--On the arrival of the next Governor, Sir William
Denison, in 1847, the Queen reinstated the "Patriotic Six"; and the colonists, encouraged by
this concession, vigorously set to work to obtain their two great desires--namely, government
by elective parliaments, and the abolition of transportation. It was found that, between the
years 1846 and 1850, more than 25,000 convicts had been brought into Tasmania; free immigration
had ceased, and the number of convicts in the colony was nearly double the number of free men.
In all parts of the world, if it became known that a man had come from Tasmania, he was looked
upon with the utmost distrust and suspicion, and was shunned as contaminated. On behalf of
the colonists, a gentleman named M'Lachlan went to London for the purpose of laying before
Mr. Gladstone the grievances under which they suffered; at the same time, within the colony,
Mr. Pitcairn strenuously exerted himself to prepare petitions against transportation, and to
forward them to the Imperial authorities. These representations were favourably entertained,
and, in a short time, Sir W. Denison received orders to inquire whether it was the unanimous
desire of the people of Tasmania that transportation should cease entirely. The question was
put to all the magistrates of the colony, who submitted it to the people in public meetings.
The discussion was warm, and party feeling ran high. There were some who had been benefited
by the trade and the English subsidies which convicts brought to the colony, and there were
others who desired, at all hazards, to retain the cheap labour of the liberated convicts. These
exerted themselves to maintain the system of transportation; but the great body of the people
were determined on its abolition, and the answer returned by every meeting expressed the same
unhesitating sentiment--Transportation ought to be abolished entirely. Accordingly, it was
not long before the Tasmanians were informed by the Governor that transportation should, in
a short time, be discontinued. But Earl Grey was now preparing another scheme for the treatment
of convicts: they were to be kept for a time in English prisons; after they had served a part
of their sentence, if they had been well conducted, the British Government would take them
out to the colonies and land them there as free men, so as to give them a chance of starting
an honourable career in a new country. It was a scheme of kind intention for the reformation
of criminals that were not utterly bad, while the English Government would keep all the worst
prisoners at home under lock and key. But the colonies had no desire to receive even the better
half of the prisoners. They were afraid that cunning criminals would sham a great deal of reformation
in order to be set free, and would then revert to their former ways whenever they were let
loose in the colonies. But Earl Grey was resolved to give the criminal a fair chance. Ships
filled with convicts were sent out to the various colonies, but the prisoners were not allowed
to land. In 1849 the Randolph appeared at Port Phillip Heads; but the people of Melbourne forbade
the captain to enter. He paid no attention to the order, and sailed up the bay to Williamstown.
But when he was preparing to land the convicts, he perceived among the colonists signs of resistance
so stern and resolute that he was glad to take the advice of Mr. Latrobe and sail for Sydney.
But in Sydney also the arrival of the convicts was viewed with the most intense disgust. The
inhabitants held a meeting on the Circular Quay, in which they protested very vigorously against
the renewal of transportation to New South Wales. West Australia alone accepted its share of
the convicts; and we have seen how the reputation of that colony suffered in consequence.

#6. The Anti-Transportation League.#--The vigorous protest of the other colonies had procured
their immunity from this evil in its direct form; but many of the "ticket-of-leave men" found
their way to Victoria and New South Wales, which were, therefore, all the more inclined to
assist Tasmania in likewise throwing off the burden. A grand Anti-Transportation League was
formed in 1851; and the inhabitants of all the colonies banded themselves together to induce
the Home Government to emancipate Tasmania. Immediately after this, the discovery of gold greatly
assisted the efforts of the league, because the British Government perceived that prisoners
could never be confined in Tasmania, when, by escaping from the colony, and mixing with the
crowds on the goldfields, they might not only escape notice but also make their fortunes; and
there was now reason to suppose that banishment to Australia would be rather sought than shunned
by the thieves and criminals of England.

#7. End of Transportation.#--In 1850 Tasmania, like the other colonies, received its Legislative
Council; and when the people proceeded to elect their share of the members, no candidate had
the slightest hope of success who was not an adherent of the Anti-Transportation League. After
this new and unmistakable expression of opinion, the English authorities no longer hesitated,
and the new Secretary of State, the Duke of Newcastle, directed that, from the year 1853, transportation
to Tasmania should cease.

Up to this time the island had been called Van Diemen's Land. But the name was now so intimately
associated with ideas of crime and villainy, that it was gladly abandoned by the colonists,
who adopted, from the name of its discoverer, the present title of the colony.

Sir Henry Young, formerly Governor of South Australia, was appointed to Tasmania in 1855, and
held office till 1861. During this period responsible government was introduced. When the Legislative
Council undertook the task of drawing up the new Constitution, it was arranged that the nominee
element, which had now become extremely distasteful, should be entirely abolished, and that
both of the legislative bodies should be elected by the people.

After Sir Henry Young, the next three Governors were Colonel Browne, Mr. Du Cane, and Mr. Weld--all
men of ability, and very popular among the Tasmanians. After the initiation of responsible
government in 1856, various reforms were introduced. By a very liberal Land Act of 1863, inducements
were offered to industrious men to become farmers in the colony. For the purpose of opening
up the country by means of railways, great facilities were given to companies who undertook
to construct lines through the country districts; and active search was made for gold and other
metals. But, in spite of these reforms, the population was steadily decreasing, owing to the
attractions of the gold-producing colonies. No great amount of land was occupied for farming
purposes, and even the squatters on the island were contented with smaller runs than those
in the other colonies. They reared stock on the English system, and their domains were sheep-farms
rather than stations. Indeed, the whole of Tasmania wore rather the quiet aspect of rural England
than the bustling appearance of an Australian colony. But the efforts to throw off the taint
of convictism were crowned with marked success; and, from being a gaol for the worst of criminals,
Tasmania has become one of the most moral and respectable of the colonies.

Of late years Tasmania has made great advances. Her population has risen to about 150,000,
and her resources have been enormously increased by the rapid development of her mineral enterprise.
Tin mines of great value are now widely spread over the west of the island, and gold mines
of promising appearance are giving employment to many persons who formerly could find little
to do. There is room for a very great further development of the resources of Tasmania; but
the colony is now on the right track, and her future is certain to be prosperous.

The Tasmanian natives were of a different type from those of Australia, having more of the
negro in them. They were even ruder and less advanced in their habits, although not without
qualities of simplicity and good-humour that were attractive. When white men first landed in
their island there were about 7,000 of them roving through the forest and living upon opossums.
But by the year 1869 all were gone but a man and three women. In that year, the man died, and
one by one the women disappeared, till at last with the death of Truganina in 1877 the race
became extinct.

CHAPTER XX.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 1850-1890.

#1. Temporary Decline.#--In 1851 the prosperity of South Australia was somewhat dimmed by the
discovery of gold in Victoria; for, before the middle of the following year, the colony was
deserted by a very large proportion of its male inhabitants. The copper mines were with difficulty
worked, for want of men; the fields were uncultivated, the sheep untended, and the colony experienced
a short period of rapid decline. However, the results obtained on the goldfields by most of
these fortune-seekers were hardly to be compared with the steady yield of the fertile cornfields
and rich copper mines of South Australia; and the majority of those who had thus abandoned
the colony returned in a short time to their families and their former employments.

Governor Young adroitly turned the discovery of gold to the advantage of his own colony by
establishing an escort between Bendigo and Adelaide; and, as this was remarkably well equipped,
many of the diggers sent their gold by this route rather than to Melbourne, thus giving to
South Australia some of the advantages of a gold-producing country. The crowds of people rushing
to the goldfields had carried with them nearly all the coins of the colony; and the banks,
although they had plenty of rough gold, were yet unable, from scarcity of coined money, to
meet the demands upon them. In this emergency, Sir Henry Young took the extreme and somewhat
illegal step of instituting a new currency, consisting of gold cast into small bars or ingots;
and, although afterwards mildly censured by the Home Government for exceeding his powers, yet
he could justly assert that this measure had saved the colony from serious commercial disaster.

But South Australia was still more benefited by the great market opened for its flour and wheat
among the vast crowds on the goldfields; and, when the first period of excitement was over,
it was found that the colony was, at any rate, not a loser by the success of its neighbours.

#2. The Real Property Act.#--In 1858 South Australia took the lead in a reform which is now
being adopted by nearly all the civilised nations of the world. According to English law, each
time an estate was transferred from one person to another, a deed had to be made out for the
purpose; and if changes in its ownership had been frequent, it would be held by the last purchaser
in virtue of a long series of documents. Now, if any one wished to buy a piece of land, he
was obliged for safety to examine all the preceding deeds in order to be quite certain that
they were valid; even then, if he bought the land, and another person, for any reason whatever,
laid claim to it, the owner had to prove the validity of each of a long series of documents,
going back, perhaps, for centuries. A flaw in any one of these would give rise to a contest
which could be settled only after a very tedious investigation; and thus arose the long and
ruinous Chancery suits which were the disgrace of English law. When a man's title to his estate
was disputed, it often happened that he had to spend a fortune and waste half a lifetime in
protracted litigation before all the antecedent deeds could be proved correct.

Mr. R. Torrens had his attention drawn to this very unsatisfactory state of things by the ruin
of one of his relatives in a Chancery suit. He thought long and carefully over a scheme to
prevent the occurrence of such injustice, and drafted a bill for a new method of transferring
property. He proposed to lay this before the South Australian Parliament, but his friends discouraged
him by declaring it was impossible to make so sweeping a change; and the lawyers actively opposed
any innovation. But Torrens brought forward the bill; its simplicity and justice commended
themselves to the people and to the House of Assembly, and it was carried by a large majority.
According to the new scheme, all transferences of land were to be registered in a public office
called the Lands Titles Office, the purchaser's name was to be recorded, and a certificate
of title given to him; after this his right to the property was indisputable. If his possession
was challenged, he had simply to go to the Lands Titles Office and produce his certificate
to the officer in charge, who could turn to the register and at once decide the question of
ownership. After this, no dispute was possible. If he sold his land, his name was cancelled
in the public register, and the buyer's name was inserted instead, when he became the undisputed
owner. Mr. Torrens was appointed to be registrar of the office, and soon made the new system
a great success; it was adopted one after another in all the colonies of Australia, and must
become eventually the law of all progressive nations.

#3. The Northern Territory.#--In 1864 the Northern Territory was added to the dominion of South
Australia, and from Adelaide an expedition was despatched by sea to the shores of Van Diemen's
Gulf, in order to form a new settlement. After many difficulties, caused chiefly by the disputes
between the first Government Resident, or Superintendent, and the officers under him, a branch
colony was successfully founded at Port Darwin, opposite to Melville Island. This settlement
has become a prosperous one: all the fruits and grains of tropical countries flourish and thrive
to perfection; gold has been discovered; and it is asserted that there exist in the neighbourhood
rich mines of other metals, which will, in the future, yield great wealth, while the stations
that are now being formed are peculiarly favourable to the rearing of cattle and of horses.
Yet the number of people who settle there continues small on account of the very hot climate;
Palmerston, the capital, is as yet a town of only a few hundred inhabitants, and all the really
hard work of the district is done by Chinese.

#4. Overland Telegraph.#--In a previous chapter it has been described how M'Douall Stuart,
after two unsuccessful efforts, managed to cross the continent from Adelaide to Van Diemen's
Gulf. Along the route which he then took, the people of South Australia resolved to construct
a telegraph line. A gentleman named Charles Todd had frequently urged the desirability of such
a line, and in 1869 his representations led to the formation of the British Australian Telegraph
Company, which engaged to lay a submarine cable from Singapore to Van Diemen's Gulf, whilst
the South Australian Government pledged itself to connect Port Darwin with Adelaide by an overland
line, and undertook to have the work finished by the 1st of January, 1872. Mr. Todd was appointed
superintendent, and divided the whole length into three sections, reserving the central portion
for his own immediate direction, and entrusting the sections at the two ends to contractors.
It was a daring undertaking for so young a colony. For thirteen hundred miles the line would
have to be carried through country which never before had been traversed by any white men but
Stuart's party. Great tracts of this land were utterly destitute of trees, and all the posts
required for the line had to be carted through rocky deserts and over treacherous sand-hills.
Todd had, with wonderful skill and energy, completed his difficult portion of the task, and
the part nearest to Adelaide had also been finished before the time agreed upon; but it fared
differently with those who had undertaken to construct the northern section. Their horses died,
their provisions failed, and the whole attempt proved a miserable collapse. The Government
sent a party to the north, in order to make a fresh effort. Wells were dug, at intervals, along
the route, and great teams of bullocks were employed to carry the necessary provisions and
materials to the stations; and yet, in spite of every precaution, the result was a failure.
Meanwhile the cable had been laid, and the first message sent from Port Darwin to England announced
that the overland telegraph was not nearly finished. The 1st of January, 1872, being now close
at hand, Mr. Todd was hastily sent to complete the work. But the time agreed upon had expired
before he had even made a commencement, and the company threatened to sue the South Australian
Government for damages, on account of the losses sustained by its failure to perform its share
of the contract. For the next eight months the work was energetically carried forward; Mr.
Todd rode all along the line to see that its construction was satisfactory throughout. He was
at Central Mount Stuart in the month of August, when the two ends of the wire were joined,
and the first telegraphic message flashed across the Australian Continent. But, meantime, a
flaw had occurred in the submarine cable, and it was not until October that communication was
established with England. On the second day of that month, the Lord Mayor of London, standing
at one end of the line, sent his hearty congratulations through twelve thousand five hundred
miles of wire to the Mayor of Adelaide, who conversed with him at the other extremity. The
whole work was undertaken and accomplished within two years; and already not only South Australia,
but all the colonies, are reaping the greatest benefits from this enterprising effort. Another
undertaking of a similar character has been completed by the efforts of both South and West
Australia; along the barren coast on which Eyre so nearly perished there stretches a long line
of posts, which carries a telegraph wire from Perth to Adelaide.

A period of depression began in South Australia after 1882. For a time everything was against
the colony. Long droughts killed its sheep and ruined its crops; while the copper mines were
found to be worked out. But fortune began to smile again after a few years of dull times, and
when in 1887 an exhibition was held in Adelaide to commemorate the jubilee of the colony, it
was also the commemoration of the return of brighter prospects. In the growth of wheat and
fruits as well as in the making of wine South Australia has great openings for future prosperity.

CHAPTER XXI.

NEW SOUTH WALES, 1860-1890.

#1. The Land Act.#--Sir John Young became Governor of New South Wales in 1861. He was a man
of great talent; but, at this stage of the colony's history, the ability of the Governor made
very little difference in the general progress of affairs. The political power was now chiefly
in the hands of responsible Ministers, and without their advice the Governor could do nothing.
The Ministry of the period--headed by Charles Cowper and John Robertson--prepared a bill to
alter the regulations for the sale of land, and to give to the poor man an opportunity of obtaining
a small farm on easy terms. Any person who declared his readiness to live on his land, and
to cultivate it, was to be allowed to select a portion, not exceeding a certain size, in any
part of the colony which he thought most convenient. The land was not to be given gratuitously;
but, although the selector was to pay for it at the rate of one pound per acre, yet he was
not expected to give more than a quarter of the price on taking possession. Three years afterwards
he had the option of either paying at once for the remaining three-quarters, or, if this were
beyond his means, of continuing to hold the land at a yearly rental of one shilling an acre.
This was an excellent scheme for the poorer class of farmers; but it was not looked upon with
favour by the squatters, whose runs were only rented from the State, and were, therefore, liable,
under this new Act, to be invaded by selectors, who would pick out all the more fertile portions,
break up the runs in an awkward manner, and cause many annoyances.

Hence, though the Legislative Assembly passed the bill, the Upper House, whose members were
mostly squatters, very promptly rejected it; and upon this there arose a struggle, the Ministry
being determined to carry the bill, and the Council quite as resolute never to pass it. Acting
on the advice of his Ministers, Sir John Young entreated the Upper House to give way; but it
was deaf to all persuasions, and the Ministers determined to coerce it by adopting extreme
measures. Its members had been nominated by a previous Governor for a period of five years,
as a preliminary trial before the nominations for life; the term of their appointment was now
drawing to a close, and Sir John Young, by waiting some little time, might easily have appointed
a new Council of his own way of thinking. But the Ministers were impatient to have their measure
passed, and, instead of waiting, they advised the Governor to nominate twenty-one new members
of Council, who, being all supporters of the bill, would give them a majority in the Upper
House; so that, on the very last night of its existence, it would be obliged to pass the measure
and make it law. But when the opponents of the bill saw the trick which was being played upon
them, they rose from their seats and resigned in a body. The President himself vacated his
chair; and as no business could then be carried on, the Land Bill was delayed until the Council
came to an end, and the Ministers thus found themselves outwitted. They were able, somewhat
later, to effect their purpose; but this little episode in responsible government caused considerable
stir at the time, and Sir John subsequently received a rebuke from the Colonial Secretary for
his share in it.

#2. Prince Alfred.#--In 1868 Lord Belmore became Governor of New South Wales, and during his
term of office all the colonies passed through a period of excitement on the occasion of a
visit from the Queen's second son, Prince Alfred. He was the first of the Royal Family who
had ever visited Australia, and the people gave to him a hearty and enthusiastic reception.
As he entered the cities flower-decked arches spanned the streets; crowds of people gathered
by day to welcome him, and at night the houses and public buildings were brilliantly illuminated
in his honour. But during the height of the festivities at Sydney a circumstance occurred which
cast a gloom over the whole of Australia. The Prince had accepted an invitation to a picnic
at Clontarf, and was walking quietly on the sands to view the various sports of the holiday-makers,
when a young man named O'Farrell rushed forward and discharged a pistol at him. The ball entered
his back, and he fell dangerously wounded. For a day or two his life trembled in the balance,
and the colonists awaited the result with the greatest excitement, until it was made known
that the crisis was past. No reason was alleged for the crime except a blind dislike to the
Royal Family; and O'Farrell was subsequently tried and executed.

#3. Railway Construction.#--New South Wales has three main lines of railway with many branches.
One starts from Sydney, and passes through Goulburn to Albury on its way to Melbourne; one
goes north to Newcastle, then through the New England district, and so to Brisbane; and the
third runs from Sydney over the Blue Mountains to Bathurst, and away to Bourke, on the Darling
River. Those rugged heights, which so long opposed the westward progress of the early colonists,
have proved no insuperable barrier to the engineer; and the locomotive now slowly puffs up
the steep inclines and drags its long line of heavily-laden trucks where Macquarie's road,
with so much trouble, was carried in 1815. The first difficulty which had to be encountered
was at a long valley named Knapsack Gully. Here the rails had to be laid on a great viaduct,
where the trains run above the tops of the tallest trees. The engineers had next to undertake
the formidable task of conducting the line up a steep and rocky incline, seven hundred feet
in height. This was effected by cutting a "zigzag" in the rock; the trains run first to the
left, rising upon a slight incline; then, reversing, they go to the right, still mounting slightly
upwards; then, again, to the left; and so on till the summit is reached. By these means the
short distance is rendered long, but the abrupt steepness of the hill is reduced to a gentle
inclination. The trains afterwards run along the top of the ridge, gradually rising, till,
at the highest point, they are three thousand five hundred feet above the level of the Sydney
station. The passengers look down from the mountain tops on the forest-clad valleys far below;
they speed along vast embankments or dash through passages cut in the solid rock, whose sides
tower above them to the height of an ordinary steeple. In some places long tunnels were bored,
so that the trains now enter a hill at one side and emerge from the other.

One of these tunnels was thought to be unsafe; the immense mass of rock above it seemed likely
to crush downwards upon the passage, and the engineers thought that their best course would
be to remove the hill from above it. Three and a half tons of gunpowder were placed at intervals
in the tunnel, and connected by wires with a galvanic battery placed a long distance off. The
operation of firing the mine was made a public occasion, and Lady Belmore agreed to go up to
the mountains and perform the ceremony of removing the hill. When all was ready, she touched
the knob which brought the two ends of the wire together. A dull and rumbling sound was heard,
the solid rock heaved slowly upward, and then settled back to its place, broken in a thousand
pieces, and covered with rolling clouds of dust and smoke. All that the workmen had then to
do was to carry away the immense pile of stone, and the course was clear for laying the rails.

When the line reached the other side of the Blue Mountains there were great difficulties in
the descent, and here the engineers had to lay out zigzags of greater extent than the former.
By these the trains now descend easily and safely from the tops of the mountains down into
the Lithgow Valley far below.

By the southern railway to Albury, crowds of people are daily whirled in a few hours to places
which, forty years ago, were reached by Sturt, and Hume, and Mitchell, only after weeks of
patient toil, through unknown lands that were far removed from civilisation.

#4. Sydney Exhibition.#--So on every hand the colony made progress. Her railways expanded in
scores of branches; her telegraph lines stretched out their arms in every direction; her sheep
increased so that now there are nearly sixty millions of them; her wheat and maize extended
to more than half a million of acres; her orangeries and vineyards and orchards, her mines
of coal and tin, and her varied and extensive manufactures, make her people, now numbering
a million, one of the most prosperous on the face of the earth. Her pride was pardonable when,
in 1879, she held an international exhibition to compare her industries side by side with those
of other lands, so as to show how much she had done and to discover how much she had yet to
learn. A frail, but wonderfully pretty building rapidly arose on the brow of the hill between
Sydney Cove and Farm Cove; and that place, the scene of so much squalor and misery a hundred
years before, became gay with all that decorative art could do, and busy with daily throngs
of gratified visitors. The place had a most distinguished appearance; seen from the harbour,
its dome and fluttering flags rose up from among the luxuriant foliage of the Botanic Gardens,
as if boldly to proclaim that New South Wales had completed the period of her infancy and was
prepared to take her place among the nations as one grown to full and comely proportions. When
the building had served its purpose, the people were too fond and too proud of it to dismantle
and destroy it, but unfortunately it was not long after swept away by an accidental fire.

In 1885, the colony was stirred by a great wave of enthusiasm when it was known that its Government
had sent to England the offer of a regiment of soldiers to fight in the Soudan side by side
with British troops. The offer was accepted, and some seven or eight hundred soldiers, well
equipped and full of high hopes, sailed for Africa. The war was too soon over for them to have
any chance of displaying what an Australian force may be like upon a battle-field. There were
many persons who held that the whole expedition was a mistake. But it had one good effect;
for it showed that, for the present at least, the Australian colonies are proud of their mother-country;
that their eyes are fondly turned to her, to follow all her destinies in that great career
which she has to accomplish as the leading nation of the earth; and that if ever she needed
their help, assistance would flow spontaneously from the fulness of loving hearts. The idea
of this expedition and its execution belonged principally to C. B. Dalley. But the great leader
of New South Wales during the last quarter of a century, and the most zealous worker for its
welfare and prosperity, has been the veteran statesman Sir Henry Parkes.

CHAPTER XXII.

VICTORIA, 1855-1890.

#1. Responsible Government.#--In 1855, when each of the colonies was engaged in framing for
itself its own form of government, Victoria, like all the others, chose the English system
of two Houses of Legislature. At first it was resolved that the Lower House, called the Legislative
Assembly, should consist of only sixty members; but by subsequent additions, the number has
been increased to eighty-six: in 1857 the right of voting was conferred upon every man who
had resided a sufficient length of time in the colony. With regard to the Upper House Victoria
found the same difficulty as had been experienced in New South Wales; but, instead of introducing
the system of nomination by the Government, it decided that its Legislative Council should
be elected by the people. In order, however, that this body might not be identical in form
and opinion with the Lower House, it was arranged that no one should be eligible for election
to it who did not possess at least five thousand pounds worth of real property, and that the
privilege of voting should be confined to the wealthier part of the community.

Along with this new Constitution responsible government was introduced; and Mr. Haines, being
sent for by the Governor, formed the first Ministry. Before the close of the year, the first
contest under the new system took place. Mr. Nicholson, a member of the Assembly, moved that
the voting for elections should in future be carried on in secret, by means of the ballot-box,
so that every man might be able to give his opinion undeterred by any external pressure, such
as the fear of displeasing his employer or of disobliging a friend. The Government of Mr. Haines
refused its assent to this proposal, which was, nevertheless, carried by the Assembly. Now,
the system of responsible government required that, in such a case, Mr. Haines and his fellow-Ministers,
being averse to such a law and declining to carry it out, should resign and leave the government
to those who were willing and able to inaugurate the newly-appointed system. Accordingly they
gave in their resignations, and the Governor asked Mr. Nicholson to form a new Ministry; but,
though many members had voted for his proposal, they were not prepared to follow him as their
leader. He could obtain very few associates, and was thus unable to form a Ministry; so that
there appeared some likelihood of a total failure of responsible government before it had been
six months in existence. In the midst of this crisis Sir Charles Hotham was taken ill. He had
been present at a prolonged ceremony--the opening of the first gasworks in Melbourne--and a
cold south wind had given him a dangerous chill. He lay for a day or two in great danger; but
the crisis seemed past, and he had begun to recover, when news was brought to him of Mr. Nicholson's
failure. He lay brooding over these difficulties, which pressed so much upon his mind that
he was unable to rally, and on the last day of the year 1855 he died. This was a great shock
to the colonists, who had learnt highly to respect him. The vacant position was for a year
assumed by Major-General Macarthur, who invited Mr. Haines and his Ministry to return. They
did so, and the course of responsible government began again from the beginning. At the end
of 1856 another Governor--Sir Henry Barkly--arrived; and during the seven years of his stay
the new system worked smoothly enough, the only peculiarity being the rapid changes in the
Government. Some of the Ministries lasted only six weeks, and very few protracted their existence
to a year.

#2. The Deadlock.#--Sir Henry Barkly left the colony in 1863, and his place was immediately
filled by Sir Charles Darling, nephew of Sir Ralph Darling, who, forty years before, had been
Governor of New South Wales. Sir Charles was destined to troublous times; for he had not been
long in the colony ere a most vexatious hitch took place in the working of constitutional government.
It arose out of a straggle with regard to what is called "Protection to Native Industry".

The colony was filled with vigorous and enterprising men, who had come to it for the purpose
of digging for gold. For four or five years gold digging had been on the average a fairly remunerative
occupation. But when all the surface gold had been gathered, and it became necessary to dig
shafts many hundreds of feet into the earth, and even then in many cases only to get quartz,
from which the gold had to be extracted by crushing and careful washing, then the ordinary
worker, who had no command of capital, had to take employment with the wealthier people, who
could afford to sink shafts and wait for years before the gold appeared. These men, therefore,
had to take small wages for toiling at a most laborious occupation. But most of them had learnt
trades of some sort in Europe; and the idea sprang up that if the colony prevented boots from
coming into it from outside there would be plenty of work for the bootmakers; if it stopped
the importation of engines there would no longer be any reason why engineers should work like
navvies at the bottom of gold mines--they would be wanted to make the engines of the colony.
After a long agitation, therefore, James M'Culloch, the Premier of the colony, in 1864 brought
a bill into the Victorian Legislative Assembly according to which taxes were to be placed on
all goods coming into the colony if they were of a sort that might be made within the colony.
M'Culloch proposed to make this change because it was ardently desired by the working men of
the colony, and these could by their votes control the action of the Legislative Assembly.
But the Upper House, called the Legislative Council, composed of wealthy men, who had been
elected by the wealthier part of the community, thought, after careful decision, that any such
plan would ruin the commerce of the colony without much benefiting its industries. They therefore
rejected the proposed bill.

M'Culloch tried to persuade them to pass it, but they were obstinate. He then resorted to a
trick which is in itself objectionable, but which is perhaps excusable when the great body
of the people wish a certain thing and a small body like the Legislative Council are resolved
to thwart them. It is part of our constitutional law that all bills dealing with money matters
must be prepared in the Lower House; the Upper House can then accept them or reject them as
they stand, but is not allowed to alter them.

Now, once a year Parliament has to pass a bill called the Appropriation Act, by which authority
is given to the Government to spend the public money in the various ways that Parliament directs.
In 1865 M'Culloch put the whole of the Protective Tariff Bill into the Appropriation Act as
if it were a part of that Act, though really it had nothing to do with it. The Legislative
Assembly passed the Appropriation Act with this insertion. The Legislative Council now found
itself in a most unlucky position. If it passed the Appropriation Act it would also pass the
Protective Tariff Bill, which it detested. But if it rejected the Appropriation Act, then the
Government would have no authority to pay away any money, and so all the officers of the State,
the civil servants and the policemen, the teachers, the gaolers, the surveyors and the tide-waiters,
would all have to go on for a year without any salaries. There was no middle course open, for
the Council could not alter the Appropriation Act and then pass it.

Whether was it to pass the Act and make the protective tariff the law of the land; or reject
it, and run the risk of making a number of innocent people starve? It chose the latter alternative,
and threw out the bill. The whole country became immensely excited, and seemed like one debating
club, where men argued warmly either for or against the Council.

Matters were becoming serious, when the Ministry discovered an ingenious device for obtaining
money. According to British law, if a man is unable to obtain from the Government what it owes
him, he sues for it in the Supreme Court; and then, if this Court decides in his favour, it
orders the money to be paid, quite independently of any Appropriation Act, out of the sums
that may be lying in the Treasury. In their emergency, the Ministry applied to the banks for
a loan of money; five of them refused, but the sixth agreed to lend forty thousand pounds.
With this the Government servants were paid, and then the bank demanded its money from the
Government; but the Government had no authority from Parliament to pay any money, and could
not legally pay it. The bank then brought its action at law. The Supreme Court gave its order,
and the money was paid to the bank out of the Treasury. Thus a means had been discovered of
obtaining all the money that was required without asking the consent of Parliament. Throughout
the year 1865 the salaries of officers were obtained in this way; but in 1866 the Upper House,
seeing that it was being beaten, offered to hold a conference. Each House made concessions
to the other, the Tariff Bill was passed, with some alterations, the Appropriation Bill was
then agreed to in the ordinary way, and the "Deadlock" came to an end.

#3. The Darling Grant.#--But, in its train, other troubles followed; for the English authorities
were displeased with Sir Charles Darling for allowing the Government to act as it did. They
showed how he might have prevented it, and, to mark their dissatisfaction, they recalled him
in 1866. He bitterly complained of this harsh treatment; and the Assembly, regarding him as,
in some measure, a martyr to the cause of the people, determined to recompense him for his
loss of salary. In the Appropriation Act of 1867 they therefore passed a grant of £20,000 to
Lady Darling, intending it for the use of her husband. The Upper House owed no debt of gratitude
to Sir Charles, and, accordingly, it once more threw out the Appropriation Bill. Again there
was the same bitter dispute, and again the public creditors were obliged to sue for their money
in the Supreme Court. In a short time four thousand five hundred such pretended actions were
laid, the Government making no defence, and the order being given in each case that the money
should be paid.

In 1866 the new Governor--Viscount Canterbury--arrived; but the struggle was still continued,
till, in 1868, Sir Charles Darling informed M'Culloch that Lady Darling would decline to receive
the money, as he was receiving instead five thousand pounds as arrears of salary and a lucrative
position in England. The Upper House then passed the Appropriation Bill, and the contest came
to an end.

#4. Payment of Members.#--But they had other things to quarrel about. The working men of the
colony thought that they never would get fair treatment in regard to the laws until working
men were themselves in Parliament. But that could not be, so long as they had to leave their
trades and spend their time in making laws while getting nothing for it. Hence they were resolved
on having all members of Parliament paid, and they elected persons to the Lower House who were
in favour of that principle. But the better-off people sent persons into the Upper House who
were against it. Thus for twenty years a struggle took place, but in the end the working men
carried their point; and it was settled that every member of Parliament should receive three
hundred pounds a year. The two Houses also quarrelled about the manner in which the land was
to be sold; the Lower House being anxious to put it into the hands of industrious people who
were likely to work on it as farmers, even though they could pay very little for it; the Upper
House preferring that it should be sold to the people who offered the most money for it. On
this and other questions in dispute the Lower House gained the victory.

#5. Exhibitions.#--It was not till the year 1880 that all these contentions were set at rest,
but from that time the colony passed into a period of peace, during which it made the most
astonishing progress in all directions. That progress was indicated in a most decided way by
the exhibitions held in the colony. It had from time to time in previous years held inter-colonial
exhibitions at which all the colonies had met in friendly competition. But in 1880, and again
in 1888, Victoria invited all the world to exhibit their products at her show. A magnificent
building was erected in one of the parks of Melbourne, and behind it were placed acres of temporary
wooden erections, and the whole was filled with twenty acres of exhibits. A similar show, held
in 1888, was much larger, and helped, by its fine collection of pictures, its grand displays
of machinery, its educational courts, its fine orchestral music, and so on, in a hundred ways
to stimulate and develop the minds of the people. During recent years Victoria has been very
busy in social legislation. While enjoying peace under the direction of a coalition Government
with Mr. Duncan Gillies and Mr. Alfred Deakin at its head, the colony has tried experiments
in regulating the liquor traffic; in closing shops at an early hour; in irrigating the waterless
plains of the north-west, and in educating farmers and others into the most approved methods
of managing their businesses. What is to be the eventual result no one can as yet very definitely
prophesy. But the eyes of many thoughtful persons throughout the world are at present turned
to Victoria to see how those schemes are working which have been so zealously undertaken for
the good of the people.

Up till 1890 the progress of the colony was astonishing. Its central half forms a network of
railways. Its agriculture and its trades have doubled themselves every few years; and though
a period of restless activity and progress was in 1890 followed by a time of severe depression,
the community, like all the other Australian colonies, has great times of prosperity in store
for it.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE TIMES OF THE MAORIS.

#1. The Maoris.#--So far as we know, the original inhabitants of New Zealand were a dark-skinned
race called Maoris, a people lithe and handsome of body, though generally plain of features:
open, frank and happy in youth, grave and often melancholy in their older years.

They numbered forty thousand in the North Island, where the warmth of the climate suited them,
but in the South Island there were only two thousand. They were divided into tribes, who fought
fiercely with one another; cooked and ate the bodies of the slain, and carried off the vanquished
to be slaves. They dwelt in houses sometimes neatly built of wooden slabs, more often of upright
poles with broad grass leaves woven between them. The roofs were of grass, plaited and thatched.

To these abodes the entrances were only some two or three feet high, and after crawling through,
the visitor who entered at night would see the master of the house, his wives, his children,
his slaves, indeed all his household, to the number of twenty or thirty, lying on mats in rows
down either side, with their heads to the walls and their feet to the centre, leaving a path
down the middle. In these rooms they slept, with a fire burning all night, till, what with
the smoke and the breaths of so many people, the place was stifling. The roofs were only four
feet higher than the ground outside, but, then, inside, the earth was hollowed a foot or two
to make the floor so that a man could just stand upright.

These houses were gathered in little villages, often pleasantly situated beside a stream, or
on the sea-shore; but sometimes for defence they were placed on a hill and surrounded by high
fences with ditches and earthen walls so as to make a great stronghold of the kind they called
a "pah". The trenches were sometimes twenty or thirty feet deep; but generally the pah was
built so that a rapid river or high precipices would defend two or three sides of it, while
only the sides not so guarded by nature were secured by ditches and a double row of palisades.
Within these enclosures stages were erected behind the palisades so that the fighting men could
hurl stones and spears and defy an attacking party.

#2. Maori Customs.#--Round their villages and pahs they dug up the soil and planted the sweet
potato, and the taro, which is the root of a kind of arum lily; they also grew the gourd called
calabash, from whose hard rind they made pots and bowls and dishes. When the crops of sweet
potato and taro were over they went out into the forest and gathered the roots of certain sorts
of ferns, which they dried and kept for their winter food. They netted fish and eels; they
caught sharks with hook and line and dried their flesh in the sun. To enjoy these meals in
comfort they had a broad verandah round their houses which formed an open and generally pleasant
dining-room, where they gathered in family circles bound by much affection for one another.
The girls especially were sweet and pretty; their mild manners, their soft and musical voices,
the long lashes of their drooping eyes, with the gloss of their olive-tinted skins made them
perfect types of dusky beauty. Grown a little older they were by no means so attractive, and
then when married they deeply scored their faces by the process of tattooing.

The men had their faces, hips, and thighs tattooed, that is, all carved in wavy lines which
were arranged in intricate patterns. The women tattooed only their lips, chins, and eyelids,
but often smeared their faces with red ochre, and soaked their hair with oil. Men and women
wore round the waist a kilt of beautifully woven flax, and over the shoulders a mat of the
same material. They were expert sailors, and built themselves large canoes which thirty or
forty men would drive forward, keeping time with their paddles. Their large war canoes were
sixty and seventy feet long, and would carry 100 men.

Thus they were by no means uncivilised, but their condition was in some respects most barbarous.
In person they were dirty, and in manners proud and arrogant. They were easily offended, and
never forgave what they considered as an injury or insult. This readiness to take offence and
to avenge themselves caused the neighbouring tribes to be for ever at war. They fought with
great bravery, slaughtered each other fiercely, and ate the bodies. Sometimes they killed their
captives or slaves in order to hold a cannibal feast.

According to their own traditions they had not been always in these islands. Their ancestors
came from afar, and each tribe had its own legendary account. But they all agreed that they
came from an island away to the north in the Pacific, which they called Hawaiki, and there
is little doubt but that some hundreds of years ago their forefathers must in truth have emigrated
from some of the South Sea Islands. Whether they found natives on the islands and killed them
all, we cannot now discover. There are no traces of any earlier people, but the Maoris in their
traditions say that people were found on the islands and slain and eaten by the invaders.

One tribe declared that long ago in far-off Hawaiki a chief hated another, but was too weak
to do him harm. He fitted out a canoe for a long voyage, and suddenly murdered the son of his
enemy. He then escaped on board the canoe with his followers and sailed away for ever from
his home. This legend declared how after many adventures he at length reached New Zealand.
Another legend relates that in Hawaiki the people were fighting, and a tribe being beaten was
forced to leave the island. Sorrowfully it embarked in two canoes and sailed away out upon
the tossing ocean, till, directed by the voice of their god sounding from the depths below
them, they landed on the shores of New Zealand.

How many centuries they lived and multiplied there it is impossible to say, as they had no
means of writing and recording their history.

#3. Tasman.#--The earliest we know of them for certain is in the journal of Tasman, who writes
under the date of 13th December, 1642, that he had that day seen shores never before beheld
by white men. He was then holding eastward after his visit to Tasmania, and the shore he saw
was the mountainous land in the North Island. He rounded what we now call Cape Farewell, and
anchored in a fine bay, whose green and pleasant shores were backed by high snow-capped mountains.
Several canoes came off from the beach filled by Maoris, who lay about a stone's throw distant
and sounded their war trumpets. The Dutch replied by a flourish of their horns. For several
days the Maoris would come no nearer, but on the sixth they paddled out with seven canoes and
surrounded both vessels. Tasman noticed that they were crowding in a somewhat threatening manner
round one of his ships, the Heemskirk, and he sent a small boat with seven men to warn the
captain to be on his guard. When the Maoris saw these seven men without weapons sailing past
their canoes they fell on them, instantly killed three and began to drag away their bodies;
no doubt to be eaten. The other four Dutchmen, by diving and swimming, escaped and reached
the ship half dead with fright. Then with shouts the whole line of Maori canoes advanced to
attack the ships; but a broadside startled them. They were stupefied for a moment at the flash
and roar of the cannon and the crash of the wood-work of their canoes; then they turned and
fled, carrying with them, however, one of the bodies. Tasman sailed down into Cook Strait,
which he very naturally took to be a bay, the weather being too thick for him to see the passage
to the south-east. He then returned and coasted northwards to the extreme point of New Zealand,
which he called Cape Maria Van Diemen, probably after the wife of that Governor of Batavia
who had sent out the expedition. Tasman called the lands he had thus discovered "New Zealand,"
after that province of Holland which is called Zealand, or the Sea-land. The bay in which he
had anchored was called Murderers' or Massacre Bay.

#4. Captain Cook.#--For more than a hundred years New Zealand had no white men as visitors.
It was in 1769 that Captain Cook, on his way home from Tahiti, steering to the south-west in
the hope of discovering new lands, saw the distant hills of New Zealand. Two days later he
landed on the east coast of the North Island, a little north of Hawke Bay. There lay the little
ship the Endeavour at anchor, with its bulging sides afloat on a quiet bay, in front a fertile
but steeply sloping shore with a pah on the crown of a hill, and a few neat little houses by
the side of a rapid stream. In the evening Cook, Banks, and other gentlemen took the pinnace
and rowed up the streamlet. They landed, leaving some boys in charge of the boat, and advanced
towards a crowd of Maoris, making friendly signs as they approached. The Maoris ran away, but
some of them seeing their chance made a dash at the boys in the boat and tried to kill them.
The boys pushed off, and dropped down the stream; the Maoris chased them, determined on mischief.
Four of them being very murderous, the coxswain fired a musket over their heads. They were
startled, but continued to strike at the boys with wooden spears. Seeing the danger the coxswain
levelled his musket and shot one of the Maoris dead on the spot. The others fled, and Cook,
hearing the report of the gun, hurried back and at once returned to the ship.

Over and over again Cook did everything he could devise to secure the friendship of these people;
but they always seemed to have only one desire, and that was to kill and eat the white visitors.
One day five canoes came out to chase the Endeavour as she was sailing along the coast. Another
time nine canoes densely filled with men sailed after her, paddling with all their might to
board the vessel. In these and many other cases cannon had to be fired over their heads to
frighten them before they would desist from their attempt to capture the ship. At one bay,
the Maoris made friends and went on board the Endeavour to sell provisions, but when all was
going forward peaceably they suddenly seized a boy and pulled him into their canoe. They were
paddling away with him when some musket shots frightened them, and in the confusion the boy
dived and swam back.

Cook sailed completely round the North Island, charting the shores with great care, often landing,
sometimes finding tribes who made friends, more often finding tribes whose insolence or treachery
led to the necessity of firing upon them with small shot. If he had only known the customs
of these people he would have understood that to be friendly with one tribe meant that the
next tribe would murder and eat them for revenge. He then sailed round the South Island, landing
less frequently, however, till at length he took his leave of New Zealand at what he called
Cape Farewell, and sailed away to Australia. He had been nearly six months exploring the coasts
of these islands, and that in a very small vessel. During this time he had left pigs and goats,
fowls and geese to increase in the forests, where they soon multiplied, especially the pigs.
Potatoes and turnips were left with many tribes, who quickly learnt how to grow them, so that
after ten or twelve years had passed away these vegetables became the chief food of all the Maoris.

#5. French Visitors.#--Whilst Cook was sailing round the North Island, a French vessel anchored
in a bay of that island in search of fresh water. The Ngapuhi tribe received them with pleasure
and gave them all the assistance in their power, but some of them stole a boat. The captain,
named De Surville, then seized one of the chiefs and put him in irons. The boat not being given
up, he burnt a village and sailed to South America, the chief dying on the road.

Three years later in 1772 came another Frenchman, Marion du Fresne, with two ships; this time
for the express purpose of making discoveries. He sailed up the west coast, rounded the North
Cape and anchored in the Bay of Islands. He landed and made friends with the Ngapuhi tribe
and took his sick sailors ashore. The Maoris brought him plenty of fish, and Du Fresne made
them presents in return. For a month the most pleasant relations continued, the Maoris often
sleeping on board and the French officers spending the night in the Maori houses. One day Captain
Marion went ashore with sixteen others to enjoy some fishing. At night they did not return.
Captain Crozet, who was second in command, thought they had chosen to sleep ashore, but the
next day he sent a boat with twelve men to find where they were. These men were scattering
carelessly through the woods when suddenly a dense crowd of Maoris, who had concealed themselves,
attacked and killed all the Frenchmen but one. He who escaped was hidden behind some bushes,
and he saw his comrades brained one after another; then he saw the fierce savages cut their
bodies in pieces, and carry them away in baskets to be eaten. When the Maoris were gone he
crept along the shore and swam to the ship, which he reached half dead with terror. Crozet
landed sixty men, and the natives gathered for a fight; but the Frenchmen merely fired volley
after volley into a solid mass of Maori warriors, who, stupefied at the flash and roar, were
simply slaughtered as they stood. Crozet burnt both the Maori villages and sailed away. In
later times the Maoris explained that the French had desecrated their religious places by taking
the carved ornaments out of them for firewood.

#6. Cook's Later Visits.#--In his second voyage Cook twice visited New Zealand in 1773 and
1774. He had two vessels, one of them under the command of Captain Furneaux. While this latter
vessel was waiting in Queen Charlotte Sound, a bay opening out of Cook Strait, Captain Furneaux
sent a boat with nine men who were to go on shore and gather green stuff for food. A crowd
of Maoris surrounded them, and one offered to sell a stone hatchet to a sailor, who took it;
but to tease the native, in silly sailor fashion, this sailor would neither give anything for
it nor hand it back. The Maori in a rage seized some bread and fish which the sailors were
spreading for their lunch. The sailors closed to prevent their touching the victuals; a confused
struggle took place, during which the English fired and killed two natives, but before they
could load again they were all knocked on the head with the green stone axes of the Maoris.
An officer sent ashore later on with a strong force found several baskets of human limbs, and
in one of them a head which he recognised as that of a sailor belonging to the party. The officer
attacked some hundreds of the Maoris as they were seated at their cannibal feast, and drove
them away from the half-gnawed bones.

Cook again touched at New Zealand in the course of his third voyage, and this time succeeded
in maintaining friendly relations with the Maoris during a short visit. But when the story
of Cook's voyage was published in later years the people of Europe conceived a deep horror
of these fierce man-eating savages.

#7. The Whalers.#--For ten or twelve years New Zealand was not visited by white men, but the
foundation of a town at Sydney, in 1788, brought ships out much more often into these waters,
and before long it was found that the seas round New Zealand were well stocked with whales.
Vessels came out to carry on the profitable business of catching them and taking their oil
to Europe. For fresh water and for fuel for their stoves they called at the shores of New Zealand,
chiefly at Queen Charlotte Sound, at Dusky Bay on the west coast of South Island, but especially
at the Bay of Islands near the extreme north of North Island. There they not only got fresh
water but bought fish and pork and potatoes from the friendly tribes of natives, paying for
them with knives and blankets; and although quarrels sometimes occurred and deaths took place
on both sides, the whalers continued more and more to frequent these places. Sometimes the
sailors, attracted by the good looks of the Maori girls, took them as wives and lived in New
Zealand. These men generally acted as sealers. They caught the seals that abounded on some
parts of the coast, and gathered their skins until the ships called back, when the captain
would give them tobacco and rum, guns and powder in exchange for their seal-skins. These the
sealers generally shared with the Maoris, who therefore began to find out that it was good
to have a white man to be dwelling near them: he brought ships to trade, and the ships brought
articles that the Maoris began to value.

#8. Maoris visit Sydney.#--In 1793, Governor Hunter at Sydney directed that the convicts at
Norfolk Island should be set to weave the fine flax that grew wild in that island. They tried,
but could make no cloth so fine and soft as that made by the Maoris out of very much the same
sort of plant. A ship was sent to try and persuade some Maoris to come over and teach the art.
The captain of the ship, being lazy or impatient, did not trouble to persuade; he seized two
Maoris and carried them off. They were kept for six months at Norfolk Island, but Captain King
treated them very well, and sent them back with ten sows, two boars, a supply of maize-seed
and other good things to pay them for their time. When King became Governor of New South Wales
he sent further presents over to Te Pehi, chief of the tribe to which these young men belonged,
and hence Te Pehi longed to see the sender of these things. He and his four sons ventured to
go in an English vessel to Sydney, where they were astonished at all they saw. On his return
Te Pehi induced a sailor named George Bruce, who had been kind to him when he was sick on board
ship, to settle in the tribe; the young Englishman married Te Pehi's most charming daughter,
and was tattooed and became the first of the Pakeha Maoris, or white men who lived in Maori
fashion. Pleased by Te Pehi's account of what he had seen, other Maoris took occasional trips
to Sydney, working their passages in whaling ships.

#9. Friendly Relations.#--Meanwhile English vessels more and more frequently visited New Zealand
for pork and flax and kauri pine, or else to catch seals, or merely to take a rest after a
long whaling trip. The Bay of Islands became the chief anchorage for that purpose, and thither
the Maoris gathered to profit by the trade. Some of the more adventurous, when they found that
the English did them no harm, shipped as sailors for a voyage on board the whalers; but though
they made good seamen they were sometimes sulky and revengeful, and rarely continued at it
more than two or three years.

In 1805 a Maori went with an English surgeon all the way to England, and returned with the
most astounding tales of London and English wonders. During the next four or five years several
other Maoris went to England, while, on the other hand, a few very respectable white men began
to settle down in New Zealand. They were far superior to the rough sailors and liberated convicts
of Sydney, who so far had been the most frequent visitors, so that mutual good-will seemed
to be established, as the Maoris found that there was much they could gain by the visits of
the white men. But all this friendliness was marred by an unfortunate occurrence.

#10. The Boyd Massacre.#--In 1809 a ship named the Boyd sailed from Sydney to go to England
round Cape Horn. She had on board seventy white people, including some children of officers
at Sydney who were on their way to England to be educated. As she was to call at New Zealand
to get some kauri spars, five Maoris went with her, working their passage over. One of these
Maoris, named Tarra, was directed during the voyage to do something which he refused to do.
The captain caused him to be twice flogged. When the ship anchored in a bay a little to the
north of the Bay of Islands, Tarra went ashore, and showed to his tribe his back all scarred
with the lash. Revenge was agreed on. The captain was enticed ashore with a few men; and they
were suddenly attacked and all killed. Then the Maoris quietly got alongside the ship, rushed
on board and commenced the work of massacre among men, women and children, who were all unarmed.
Some of the children fell and clasped the feet of Tarra, begging him to save them, but the
young savage brained them without mercy. All were slain except a woman and two children who
hid themselves during the heat of the massacre, and a boy who was spared because he had been
kind to Tarra. All the bodies were taken ashore and eaten. One of the chiefs while curiously
examining a barrel of gunpowder caused it to explode, blowing himself and a dozen others to pieces.

Te Pehi, the head chief of the Ngapuhi, was extremely vexed when he heard of this occurrence,
and took some trouble to rescue the four survivors, but five whaling vessels gathered for revenge;
they landed their crews, who shot thirty Maoris whether belonging to Tarra's tribe or not,
and in their blind fury burnt Te Pehi's village, severely wounding the chief himself. This
outrage stopped all friendly intercourse for a long time. The whalers shot the Maoris whenever
they saw them, about a hundred being killed in the next three years, while the Maoris killed
and ate any white people they could catch. Thus in 1816 the Agnes, an American brig, happened
to be wrecked on their shores. They killed and ate everybody on board, except one man, who
was tattooed and kept for a slave during twelve years.

#11. The Missionaries.#--In spite of all these atrocities a band of missionaries had the courage
to settle in New Zealand and begin the work of civilising these Maori tribes. This enterprise
was the work of a notable man named Samuel Marsden, who had in early life been a blacksmith
in England, but had devoted himself with rare energy to the laborious task of passing the examinations
needed to make him a clergyman. He was sent out to be the chaplain to the convicts at Sydney,
and his zeal, his faith in the work he had to do, and his roughly eloquent style, made him
successful where more cultured clergymen would have failed. For fourteen years he toiled to
reform convicts, soldiers, and officers in Sydney; and when Governor King went home to England
in 1807, after his term was expired, Marsden went with him on a visit to his friends. While
in London, Marsden brought before the Mission Society the question of doing something to Christianise
these fierce but intelligent people, and the society not only agreed, but employed two missionaries
named Hall and King to undertake the work.

When Marsden, along with these two courageous men, started back to Sydney in the Ann convict
ship, in 1809, there was on board, strangely enough, a Maori chief called Ruatara. This young
fellow was a nephew of Hongi, the powerful head chief of the Ngapuhi tribe. Four years before,
being anxious to see something of the wonders of civilised life, he had shipped as a sailor
on board a whaler. He had twice been to Sydney and had voyaged up and down all the Pacific.
At length, in 1809, he had gone to London, where he was lost in surprise at all he saw. The
climate, however, tried him severely, and he was sick and miserable on the voyage back to Sydney.
Marsden was kind to him and gave him a home in his own house. Ruatara had many troubles and
dangers to meet, through many months, before he was at last settled among his own people.

Meantime, the new Governor of Sydney refused to allow the missionaries to go to New Zealand.
The massacre of the sixty-six people of the Boyd had roused a feeling of horror, and it seemed
a wicked waste of life to try to live among savages so fierce. The missionaries were therefore
employed in Sydney. In 1813 Governor Macquarie directed that every vessel leaving for New Zealand
should give bonds to the extent of a thousand pounds to guarantee that the white men should
not carry off the natives or interfere with their sacred places. Then the trouble between the
two races quieted down a little, and in 1814 the missionaries thought they might at least make
further inquiries. A brig called the Active of 100 tons was bought; and on board it went Hall
with another missionary called Kendall (grandfather of the poet) who had lately come out. They
reached the Bay of Islands, taking with them abundance of presents. They saw Ruatara, and persuaded
him with his uncle, Hongi, and other chiefs to go to Sydney in the Active, and there discuss
the question of a mission station. They went, and Hongi guaranteed the protection of his tribe,
the Ngapuhi, if the missionaries would settle in their territory.

#12. The Mission Station.#--It was in November, 1814, that the Active sailed with the mission
colony, consisting of Kendall, King, and Hall, their wives and five children and a number of
mechanics; in all twenty-five Europeans, together with eight Maoris. They took three horses,
a bull, two cows, and other live stock, and after a quick passage anchored near the north of
the North Island. Marsden was with them as a visitor, to see the place fairly started. He was
troubled on landing to find that the Ngapuhi were at war with their near neighbours, the Wangaroans,
and he saw that little progress would be made till these tribes were reconciled. Marsden fearlessly
entered with only one companion into the heart of the hostile tribe; met Tarra, the instigator
of the Boyd massacre, and slept that night in the very midst of the Wangaroans. Wrapt up in
his greatcoat, he lay close by Tarra, surrounded by the sleeping forms of men and women who,
only a few years before, had gathered to the horrid feast. Surprised at this friendly trust,
the Wangaroans were fascinated, and subsequently were led by him like children. They were soon
induced to rub noses with the chiefs of Ngapuhi as a sign of reconciliation, and were then
all invited on board the Active, where a merry breakfast brought old enemies together in friendly
intercourse.

The missionaries with twelve axes bought 200 acres of land on the shore of the Bay of Islands.
Half an acre was soon enclosed by a fence; a few rough houses were built and a pole set up,
upon which floated a white flag with a cross and a dove and the words "Good tidings"; Ruatara
made a pulpit out of an old canoe, covered it with cloth, and put seats round it. There, on
Christmas Day, 1814, Marsden preached the first sermon in New Zealand to a crowded Maori audience,
who understood not one word of what was said, but who, perhaps, were benefited by the general
impressiveness of the scene.

In the following February, Marsden returned to Sydney, thinking the mission in a fair way of
success. But all was not to be so harmonious as he dreamt; the liberated convicts, who formed
the bulk of the crews of sealing and whaling vessels, treated the natives with coarseness and
arrogance; the Maoris were quick to revenge themselves, and the murders, thefts, and quarrels
along all the shore did more harm than the handful of missionaries could do good. Three or
four times they wished to leave, and as often did Marsden return and persuade them to stay.
Their lives at least were safe; for Hongi, the Ngapuhi chief, found that they were useful in
the way of bringing trade about, but he was dissatisfied because they would not allow guns
and powder to be sold by the white men to him and his people.

#13. Tribal Wars.#--Hongi saw that the tribe which possessed most guns was sure to get the
upper hand of all the others. He therefore contrived in another way to secure these wonderful
weapons. For in 1820 when Kendall went home to England for a trip Hongi went with him, and
saw with constant wonder the marvels of the great city. The sight of the fine English regiments,
the arsenals, the theatres, the big elephant at Exeter Change Menagerie, all impressed deeply
the Maori from New Zealand forests. He stayed for a while at Cambridge, assisting a professor
to compile a dictionary of the Maori language, and going to church regularly all the time.
Then he had an audience from George IV., who gave him many presents, and among others a complete
suit of ancient armour. For a whole season, Hongi was a sort of lion among London society.
People crowded to see a chief who had eaten dozens of men, and so many presents were given
him that when he came back to Sydney he was a rich man. He sold everything, however, except
his suit of armour, and with the money he bought 300 muskets and plenty of powder, which he
took with him to New Zealand. Having reached his home he informed his tribe of the career of
conquest he proposed; with these muskets he was going to destroy every enemy. "There is but
one king in England," he said; "there shall be only one among the Maoris." He soon had a force
of a thousand warriors, whom he embarked on board a fleet of canoes, and took to the southern
shores of the Hauraki Gulf, where the Ngatimaru lived, ancient enemies of the Ngapuhi, who,
however, felt secure in their numbers and in the strength of their great pah Totara. But Hongi
captured the pah, and slew five hundred of the unfortunate inmates. The Ngatimaru tribe then
retreated south into the valley of the Waikato River, and summoned their men and all their
friends; a total of over three thousand were arrayed on that fatal battle-field. Hongi with
his muskets gained a complete victory. He shot the hostile chief with his own gun, and tearing
out his eyes, swallowed them on the field of battle. Over a thousand were killed, and Hongi
and his men feasted on the spot for some days till three hundred bodies had been eaten. The
victors then returned, bearing in their canoes another thousand captives, of whom many were
slain and cooked to provide a share of the horrid feast to the women of the tribe.

In his bloodthirsty wars Hongi showed great skill and energy. During the two following years
he defeated, slaughtered, and ate large numbers of the surrounding tribes, and when a number
of these unfortunate people withdrew to a pah of enormous strength, nearly surrounded by a
bend of the Waikato River, he dragged his canoes over to that river, ascended it, dashed at
the steep cliffs, the ditches and palisades, and once more the muskets won the day. A thousand
fell in the fight; then the women and children were slaughtered in heaps. The strong tribe
of the Arawa further south had their chief pah on an island in the middle of Lake Rotorua.
Hongi with great labour carried his canoes over to the lake. The spear-armed Maoris could do
nothing in defence while he shot at them from the lake; and when he assaulted the island, though
they came down to the water's edge to repel him, again there was victory for the muskets. Thus
did Hongi conquer till the whole North Island owned his ascendancy. But in 1827 his career
came to an end, for having quarrelled with his former friends, the tribe of which Tarra was
chief, he killed them all but twenty, but in the fight was himself shot through the lungs;
for that tribe had now many muskets also, and a ball fired when the massacre was nearly over
passed through Hongi's chest, leaving a hole which, though temporarily healed, caused his death
a few months later. Pomaré succeeded him as chief of the Ngapuhi, and made that tribe still
the terror of the island. At one pah Pomaré killed 400 men; and he had his own way for a time
in all his fights. But the other tribes now began to see that they could not possibly save
themselves except by getting muskets also, and as they offered ten times their value for them
in pork and flax and other produce, English vessels brought them over in plenty. The remnant
of the Waikato tribe having become well armed and well exercised in shooting under Te Whero
Whero, they laid an ambush for Pomaré and killed him with almost the whole of the 500 men who
were with him. The other tribes joined Te Whero Whero, and in successive battles ruined the
Ngapuhi. Te Whero Whero held the leadership for a time, during which he almost exterminated
the Taranaki tribe. He was practically lord of all the North Island till he met his match in
Rauparaha, the most determined and wily of all the Maori leaders. He was the chief of a tribe
living in the south of the North Island, and he gathered a wild fighting band out of the ruined
tribes of his own and the surrounding districts. Many battles were fought between him and Te
Whero Whero, in which sometimes as many as a thousand muskets were in use on each side. Rauparaha
was at length overcome, and with difficulty escaped across the strait to the South Island,
while Te Whero Whero massacred and enslaved all over the North Island, cooking as many as 200
bodies after a single fight. And yet the evil was in a way its own cure, for, through strenuous
endeavours, by this time every tribe had a certain proportion of its men well armed with muskets;
and thus no single tribe ever afterwards got the same cruel ascendancy that was obtained first
by the Ngapuhi and then by the Waikato tribe. But fights and ambushes, slaughters, the eating
of prisoners and all the horrid scenes of Maori war went on from week to week all over the
North Island.

CHAPTER XXIV.

NEW ZEALAND COLONISED.

#1. Kororarika.#--All this fighting of the Maori tribes made them more dependent on the trade
they had with white men. They could neither make guns nor powder for themselves, and the tribe
that could purchase none of the white man's weapons was sure to be slaughtered and eaten by
other tribes. Hence white men were more eagerly welcomed, and in course of time nearly two
hundred of them were living Maori fashion with the tribes. But it was at the Bay of Islands
that the chief trading was carried on. For it was there that the kauri timber grew; it was
there that the pigs were most plentiful and the cargoes of flax most easily obtained; and when
a man named Turner set up a grog-shop on the shores of the bay all the whaling ships made this
their usual place for resting and refitting. Behind the beach the hills rise steeply, and on
these hills a number of white men built themselves homes securely fenced, and defended, sometimes
even by a cannon or two. But down on the little green flat next to the beach, rude houses were
more numerous. In the year 1838 there were about 500 persons resident in the little town, which
was now called Kororarika, but at times there were nearly double that number of people resident
in it for months together. A wild and reckless place it was, for sailors reckoned themselves
there to be beyond the reach of English law.

At one time as many as thirty-six ships lay off the town of Kororarika, and in a single year
150 ships visited the bay; generally staying a month or more at anchor. The little church and
the Catholic mission station up on the hill did less good to the natives than these rough sailors
did harm, and at length the more respectable white men could stand the disorder no longer.
They formed an association to maintain decency. They seized, tried, fined or sometimes locked
up for a time the worst offenders, and twice they stripped the ruffians naked, gave them a
coat of tar, stuck them all over with white down from a native plant, and when they were thus
decorated, expelled them from the town, with a promise of the same treatment if ever they were
seen back in it.

#2. Hokianga.#--Long before this the capacities of New Zealand and the chances of making wealth
there became well known in England, and in 1825 an association was formed to colonise the country.
It sent out an agent, who reported that Hokianga, a deep estuary on the west coast, just opposite
to Kororarika, and only thirty miles away from it, was a charming place for a settlement. The
agent bought a square mile of land from the Maoris and also two little islands in the harbour.
The company fitted out a ship the Rosanna, and sixty colonists sailed out in her to form the
pioneers of the new colony. They landed, and liked the look of the place, but they were timid
by reason of the tales they had heard of Maori ferocity. Now at this time the Ngapuhis were
at war with the Arawas, and the latter were getting up a war dance, which the settlers were
just in time to see. Five or six hundred men stood in four long rows, stamping in time to a
chant of their leader. It was night, a fire lit up their quivering limbs and their rolling
eyes; they joined in a chorus, and when they came to particular words they hissed like a thousand
serpents; they went through the performance of killing their enemies, cutting up their bodies
and eating them. The settlers fell into deep meditation and departed. Not half a dozen remained
in New Zealand, the others went to Sydney, and so after an expense of £20,000 this association,
which had been formed for the kindly purpose of putting people in lands less crowded than their
own, failed and was disbanded.

#3. Settled Government.#--Between 1825 and 1835 the Maoris of the North Island were in a miserable
state. Wars and massacres and cannibal feasts made the country wretched, and though the missionaries
were respected they could not secure peace. But they persuaded the chiefs of some of the weaker
tribes to appeal to England for protection against the conquering warriors who oppressed and
destroyed their people. It was in 1831 that this petition was sent to King William, and about
the same time the white men at Kororarika, terrified at the violence with which the Waikato
men were ravaging the surrounding lands, asked the Governor at Sydney to interfere. The result
was that although the English would not regularly take possession of New Zealand, they chose
Mr. Busby, a gentleman well known in New South Wales, to be the Resident there, his business
being, so far as possible, to keep order. How he was to keep order without men or force to
make his commands obeyed it is hard to see; but he was expected to do whatever could be done
by persuasion, and to send for a British war-ship if ever he thought it was needed.

The first war-ship that thus came over did more harm than good. Its visit was caused by a disastrous
wreck. The whaling barque Harriet, under the command of a man named Guard, a low fellow who
had formerly been a convict, was trading among the islands when she was wrecked off the coast
of Taranaki. The Maoris attacked the stranded ship, but the crew stayed on her and fired into
the assailants, and it was not till after quite a siege, in which twelve seamen were killed,
that the rest fled from the wreck, leaving Mrs. Guard and her two children in the hands of
the Taranaki tribe. Guard and twelve seamen, however, though they escaped for a time were caught
by a neighbouring tribe, to whom he promised a cask of gunpowder if they would help him to
reach an English ship. This they did, and Guard reached Sydney, where he begged Sir Richard
Bourke to send a vessel for the rescue of his wife and children. Bourke sent the Alligator,
with a company of soldiers, who landed and demanded the captive seamen. These were given up,
but the captain of the ship supported Guard in breaking his promise and refusing to give the
powder, under the plea that it was a bad thing for natives. The Alligator then went round to
Taranaki for the woman and children. The chief of the tribe came down to the beach and said
they would be given up for a ransom. The white men seized him, dragged him into their boat
to be a hostage, but he jumped out of the boat and was speared with bayonets. He was taken
to the ship nearly dead. Then the natives gave up the woman and one child in return for their
chief. After some parley a native came down to the beach with the other child on his shoulders.
He said he would give it up if a proper ransom was paid. The English said they would give no
ransom, and when the man turned to go away again, they shot him through the back, quite dead.
The child was recovered, but Mrs. Guard and the children testified that this native had been
a good friend to them when in captivity. Nevertheless, his head was cut off and tumbled about
on the beach. The Alligator then bombarded the native pah, destroyed all its houses to the
number of 200, with all the provisions they contained, killing from twenty to thirty men in
the process. This scarcely agreed with the letter which Mr. Busby had just received, in which
he was directed to express to the Maori chiefs the regret which the King of England felt at
the injuries committed by white men against Maoris.

#4. Captain Hobson.#--But there were many difficulties in securing justice between fickle savages
and white men who were in general so ruffianly as those who then dwelt in New Zealand. The
atrocities of the Harriet episode did some good, however, for along with other circumstances
they stirred up the English Government to make some inquiries into the manner in which Englishmen
treated the natives of uncivilised countries. These inquiries showed much injustice and sometimes
wanton cruelty, and when a petition came from the respectable people of Kororarika, asking
that some check should be put upon the licence of the low white men who frequented that port,
the English Government resolved to annex New Zealand if the Maoris were willing to be received
into the British Empire. For that purpose they chose Captain Hobson, a worthy and upright sea-captain,
who in his ship of war, the Rattlesnake, had seen much of Australia and New Zealand. It was
he who had taken Sir Richard Bourke to Port Phillip in 1837, and Hobson's Bay was named in
his honour. After that he had been sent by Bourke to the Bay of Islands to inquire into the
condition of things there, and when he had gone home to England he had given evidence as to
the disorder which prevailed in New Zealand. He was sent in a war-ship, the Druid, with instructions
to keep the white men in order, and to ask the natives if they would like to become subjects
of Queen Victoria and live under her protection. If they agreed to do so, he was to form New
Zealand into an English colony and he was to be its Lieutenant-Governor under the general control
of the Governor of New South Wales.

Hobson reached Sydney at the end of 1839 and conferred with Governor Gipps, who helped him
to draw up proclamations and regulations for the work to be done. On leaving Sydney, Hobson
took with him a treasurer and a collector of customs for the new colony, a sergeant of police
and four mounted troopers of the New South Wales force, together with a police magistrate to
try offenders, and two clerks to assist in the work of government. It was the 29th of January,
1840, when he landed at the Bay of Islands. Next day, on the beach, he read several proclamations,
one of which asserted that all British subjects, even though resident in New Zealand, were
still bound to obey British laws; and another declared that as white men were tricking the
Maoris into selling vast tracts of land for goods of little value, all such bargains made after
that date would be illegal, while all made before that date would be inquired into before being
allowed. It was declared that if the Maoris in future wished to sell their land the Governor
would buy it and pay a fair price for it. All white men who wished for land could then buy
from the Governor. Three days later the respectable white men of Kororarika waited on Captain
Hobson to congratulate him on his arrival and to promise him their obedience and assistance.

#5. Treaty of Waitangi.#--Meantime Hobson had asked the missionaries to send word round to
all the neighbouring chiefs that he would like to see them, and on the 5th of February, 1840,
a famous meeting took place on the shore of the Bay of Islands near the mouth of the pretty
river Waitangi. There on a little platform on a chair of state sat the new Governor, with the
officers of the ship in their uniform, and a guard of mariners and sailors; while beside the
platform stood the leading white men of Kororarika. Flags fluttered all round the spot. At
noon, when Hobson took his seat, there were over five hundred Maoris, of whom fifty were chiefs,
in front of the platform. Then one of the missionaries rose and in the Maori tongue explained
what the Queen of England proposed. First, that the Maoris, of their own accord, should allow
their country to be joined to the British Empire. Second, that the Queen would protect them
in their right to their land and all their property, and see that no white men interfered with
them in it, but that if they chose to sell any of their land, then the Governor would buy it
from them. Third, that the Queen would extend to the Maoris, if they so desired, all the rights
and privileges of British subjects and the protection of British law.

When these proposals had been fully explained the Maoris were asked to say what they thought
of them. Twenty-six chiefs spoke in favour of accepting, and so bringing about peace and order
in the land. Six spoke against them, declaring that thus would the Maoris be made slaves. The
natives seemed very undecided, when Waka Nene arose and in an eloquent address showed the miseries
of the land now that fire-arms had been introduced, and begged his countrymen to place themselves
under the rule of a queen who was able and willing to make the country quiet and happy. The
Maoris were greatly excited, and Hobson therefore gave them a day to think over the matter.
There was much discussion all night long among the neighbouring pahs and villages; but the
next day when the Maoris gathered, forty-six chiefs put their marks to the parchment now always
known as the treaty of Waitangi.

This treaty was taken by missionaries and officers from tribe to tribe, and in the course of
two or three months over five hundred chiefs had signed it. On the 21st May, Hobson proclaimed
that the islands of New Zealand were duly added to the British Empire, and that he would assume
the rule of the new colony as Lieutenant-Governor. Meantime houses had been built at Kororarika
for the Governor and his officers; a custom-house had been set up, and taxes were levied on
all goods landed, so as to provide a revenue with which to pay these and other Government expenses.

#6. Auckland.#--But the people at Kororarika had bought from the natives all the level land
in the place, and thinking their town would soon be a great city, and the capital of an important
colony, they would not sell it except at very high prices. Now Captain Hobson had seen at the
head of the Hauraki Gulf a place which seemed to him to be more suitable for the capital of
the future colony. To this lovely spot he changed his residence. He bought from the natives
about thirty thousand acres, and on an arm of the gulf, where the Waitemata harbour spreads
its shining waters, he caused a town to be surveyed and streets to be laid out. In April, 1841,
after he had reserved sufficient land for Government offices, parks and other public purposes,
he caused the rest to be offered in allotments for sale by auction. There was a general belief
that now, when the islands were formally annexed to the British Empire, New Zealand would be
a most prosperous colony, and that land in its capital would go up rapidly in value. Many speculators
came over from Sydney. The bidding was brisk, and the allotments were sold at the rate of about
six hundred pounds per acre. A few months later a sale was held of lands in the suburbs and
of farming lands a little way out from the town. This was again successful. Houses began to
spring up, most of them slender in structure, but with a few of solid appearance. Next year
ships arrived from England with 560 immigrants, who rapidly settled on the land, and before
long a thriving colony was formed. The little town was very pretty, with green hills behind
the branching harbour that lay in front, dotted with volcanic islets. The whole district was
green; and the figures of Maoris in the grassy streets, their canoes bringing in vegetables
to market, their pahs seen far off on the neighbouring hills, gave the scene a charming touch
of the romantic. A company of six soldiers with four officers came from Sydney to defend the
settlers, and barracks were built for them. The name chosen for the city was Auckland, after
a gentleman named Eden, who had taken for half a century a deep interest in colonising experiments,
and who had been raised to the peerage with the title of Lord Auckland.

#7. New Zealand Company.#--Meantime another part of New Zealand had been colonised under very
different circumstances. The English association, which in 1825 attempted to form a settlement
at Hokianga and failed, had consisted of very influential men. They had not given up their
plans altogether, and in 1837 they formed a new association called the New Zealand Company.
That restless theorist Edward Gibbon Wakefield, who had already sent out the settlers who had
just founded Adelaide, joined this association, and impressed the members with his own idea
already described on page 67. It was arranged that a colony should be sent out to New Zealand
on the plan of a complete little community. There were to be gentlemen and clergymen and teachers;
so many farmers, so many carpenters, so many blacksmiths; every trade was to be represented
so that everybody would have something to do, and there would be none too many of any one kind.
A bill was brought before Parliament for the purpose of establishing a colony after this fashion,
and at first Parliament was inclined to favour the bill. But the missionaries in New Zealand
were hostile to the proposal. They were steadily converting the Maoris to Christianity. They
hoped to turn them into quiet, industrious and prosperous people, if white men did not come
and take away their land from them. Parliament, therefore, refused to pass the bill. But the
company had gone too far to retreat. It had already arranged with many settlers to take them
and their families out to New Zealand, and had begun to sell land at so much an acre, nobody
knew where except that it was to be in New Zealand. They therefore quietly purchased and fitted
out a vessel named the Tory to go to New Zealand and make arrangements. The party was under
the charge of Colonel Wakefield, brother of Edward Gibbon Wakefield; and he took with him surveyors
to lay out the land, farming experts to judge of the soil, and a scientific man to report on
the natural products. This vessel sailed away quietly in May, 1839, hoping to reach New Zealand
unnoticed. The English Government heard of it however, informed the company that its action
was illegal, and immediately afterwards sent off Captain Hobson in the Druid, as has been already
described, to take possession on behalf of the British nation. The New Zealand Company then
apologised; said that they would direct their agents who had gone out to New Zealand to obey
the Governor in all things, and promised that the new settlement should abide by the law.

#8. Wellington.#--Meantime the Tory was ploughing the deep on her way to New Zealand. Her passengers
first saw the new country on the west coast of the South Island. They were then very much disappointed,
for the shore was high and wild, the mountains were close behind it, and their lofty sides
were gloomy and savage. The whole scene was grand, but did not promise much land that would
be suitable for farming. They turned into Cook Strait, and anchored in Queen Charlotte Sound,
a lovely harbour, but surrounded by high hills clothed in dark and heavy forests. When they
landed, they were amazed at the depth and richness of the black soil and the immense size to
which the trees grew. Such a soil could grow all sorts of produce in rich abundance, but it
would cost forty pounds an acre to clear it for ploughing. Boats were got out, however, and
parties rowed up into all the branches of the beautiful harbour, but without seeing any sufficient
extent of level or open land. Then they crossed the strait, and sailing in by a narrow entrance,
viewed all the wide expanse of Port Nicholson. It was a great harbour with a little wooded
island in its middle; it opened out into quiet arms all fringed with shelly beaches, and behind
these rose range after range of majestic mountains. The trouble was that here too the land
which was fairly level was too limited in extent to satisfy the colony's needs; for already
in England the company had sold 100,000 acres of farming land, and the purchasers would soon
be on their way to occupy it. After examining the shores with care they chose the beach of
the east side as the site for their town. Behind it stretched the beautiful valley of the Hutt
River, enclosed by mountains, but with broad grassy meadows lying between. Here they started
to build a town which they called Britannia, and they made friends with the Maoris of the district.
A Pakeha Maori named Barrett acted as interpreter. The natives went on board the Tory, were
shown 239 muskets, 300 blankets, 160 tomahawks and axes, 276 shirts, together with a quantity
of looking-glasses, scissors, razors, jackets, pots, and scores of other things, with eighty-one
kegs of gunpowder, two casks of cartridges and more than a ton of tobacco. They were asked
if they would sell all the land that could be seen from the ship in return for these things.
They agreed, signed some papers and took the goods on shore, where they at once began to use
the muskets in a grand fight among themselves for the division of the property. It was soon
discovered that the site of the town was too much exposed to westerly gales, and the majority
of the settlers crossed Port Nicholson to a narrow strip of grassy land between a pretty beach
and some steep hills. Here was founded the town called Wellington, after the famous duke.

By this time the settlers were arriving thick and fast. The first came in the Aurora, which
reached the settlement on 22nd January, 1840; other ships came at short intervals, till there
were twelve at anchor in Port Nicholson. The settlers were pleased with the country; they landed
in good spirits and set to work to make themselves houses. All was activity--surveyors, carpenters,
bricklayers, blacksmiths, every one busy, and rapidly a smart little town of some hundred houses
rose behind the beach. The Maoris came and helped in the work, getting three or four shillings
a day for their services, and proving themselves very handy in many ways. All were in sanguine
spirits, when word came from Governor Hobson at Auckland that, in accordance with his proclamation,
all purchases of land from the natives were illegal, he having come to protect the Maoris from
imposition.

#9. The Land Question.#--Now Colonel Wakefield had fancied that he had bought 20,000,000 acres
for less than £9,000 worth of goods, and he was assigning it as fast as he could to people
who had paid £1 an acre to the company in England. Here was a sad fix. The Governor sent down
his chief officer, Mr. Shortland, who rode across the island with the mounted police, and told
the settlers not to fancy the land theirs, as he would ere long have to turn them off. Disputes
arose, for it seemed absurd that fifty-eight Maori chiefs should sell the land on which many
thousands of people dwelt, the majority of these people never having so much as heard of the
bargain. The settlers talked of starting for South America and forming a colony in Chili, but
more kept on coming, so that they had not ships enough to take them across. And, besides, they
had paid a pound an acre to the company and demanded their land. Colonel Wakefield went off
to Auckland to talk the matter over with Governor Hobson, who left the difficulty to be settled
by his superior, Governor Gipps, at Sydney.

Wakefield then went to Sydney to see Governor Gipps, who said that the whole thing was irregular,
but that he would allow the settlers to occupy the land, supposing that every Maori who had
a proper claim to any part of it got due compensation, and if twenty acres of the central part
of Wellington were reserved for public buildings. These conditions Wakefield agreed to, and,
very glad to have got out of a serious difficulty, he returned with the good tidings. Shortly
afterwards Governor Hobson himself visited Wellington, but was very coldly received by the
settlers there.

In the next two years 350 ships arrived at Wellington, bringing out over 4,000 settlers. Of
these about 1,000 went up into the valleys and made farms; but 3,000 stayed in and around Wellington,
which then grew to be a substantial little town, with four good piers, about 200 houses of
wood or brick and about 250 houses of more slender construction. More than 200 Maoris could
be seen in its streets clad in the European clothes given as payment for the land. In all there
were about 700 Maoris in the district, and for their use the company set apart 11,000 acres
of farm lands, and 110 acres in the town. Roads were being made into the fertile valleys, where
eight or ten thousand acres were occupied as farms and being rapidly cleared and tilled. Parties
were organised to go exploring across the mountains. They brought back word that inland the
soil was splendid, sometimes covered with forests, sometimes with meadows of long grass or
New Zealand flax, but always watered by beautiful rivers and under a lovely climate. The Maoris
were everywhere friendly throughout their journey.

#10. Taranaki.#--In the beginning of the year 1840, an emigration society had been formed in
the south-west of England to enable the farm labourers and miners of Cornwall, Devon, and Dorset
to settle in less crowded lands. The Earl of Devon was its president, and Plymouth its headquarters.
They chose New Zealand for the site of their colony, and understanding that the New Zealand
Company had bought half of the North Island they gave that company £10,000 for the right to
select 60,000 acres of it. It was in March, 1841, that the pioneers of this new colony arrived
at Wellington under the guidance of Mr. Carrington, a surveyor in the ship William Bryant.
The exploring party had just come back, and its report of the Taranaki land was very tempting.
Immediately after receiving that report Colonel Wakefield had gone off to purchase it. He found
a few natives left there, the remnant of the tribes whom Te Whero Whero had either destroyed
or carried into slavery. These few people had taken refuge up in the awful solitudes of the
giant Mount Egmont, but had come back to dwell, a sorrow-stricken handful, in the homes of
their fathers. Barrett was left to arrange a bargain with them, and in return for a quantity
of goods they sold all the land along sixty miles of coast with a depth of fifteen miles inland.
This was the land which Wakefield recommended for the new settlers, and he lent them a ship
to take them round. There they landed, and in spite of their disappointment at the want of
a safe harbour, they set to work and built up their little town, which they called New Plymouth.

In September of the same year the main body of settlers arrived for this new colony, and were
landed at Taranaki, when they immediately scattered out over the country, as fast as Carrington
could survey it for them. But there was now a difficulty. For Te Whero Whero and his tribe
had released many hundreds of the Taranaki natives who had been carried off as slaves. Whether
it was because they had now become Christians or because the slaves were more in number than
they could use, it was not easy to determine; but at any rate, in that very month of September
when hundreds of white men were arriving to occupy the land, hundreds of Maoris were coming
back to re-occupy it. They begged the settlers not to fell their big trees, but were very mild
in their conduct. They chose places not yet claimed by the white men, and there fenced in the
land on which to grow their sweet potatoes.

Meanwhile there was another complication. By Maori custom a warrior had the ownership of the
lands he conquered. Governor Hobson therefore regarded Te Whero Whero as the owner of the Taranaki
land, and gave him £400 for his right to it. Hobson declared that the Auckland Government was
the owner of this land, and that all settlers must buy it from him. Eventually the trouble
was cleared up for the time being, when Hobson allowed the company to keep ten miles of coast
running back five or six miles, the rest to belong to the Government, which would set aside
a certain part for the use of the Maoris. In December, 1842, a settler claimed a piece of land
which a Maori had fenced in; he pulled down the fence; the Maoris put it up again. The settler
assisted by an officer pulled it down once more. A young chief who brandished a tomahawk and
threatened mischief was arrested, and carried into New Plymouth where a magistrate liberated
him, and declared the action of the settler illegal. Matters for a time kept in this unfriendly
state, ominously hinting the desperate war that was to follow.

#11. Wanganui.#--Meanwhile the settlers in the Wellington district were finding that by crossing
difficult mountains they could get sufficient level land for their purpose, and at the close
of 1840 two hundred of them sailed 150 miles north to where the river Wanganui falls into Cook
Strait. The land was rich and the district beautiful. Colonel Wakefield supposed that he had
bought the whole of it, though the natives afterwards proved that they sold only a part on
the north side of the river. Here, about four miles from the mouth of the stream, the settlers
formed a little town which they called Petre, but which is now known as Wanganui. The natives
were numerous; on the river banks their villages were frequent, and up on the hills, that rose
all around like an amphitheatre, the palisades of their fortified pahs were easily visible.
But the fine black soil of the district, in places grassy, in places with patches of fine timber,
proved very attractive to the settlers, and soon there came half a dozen ships with more colonists
direct from England. The natives were friendly to white men, and gave them a cordial welcome.
Down the river came their canoes laden with pigs, potatoes, melons, and gourds for sale in
the market of the little town. All was good-will until the Maoris found that the white men
had come not merely to settle among them, but to appropriate all the best of the land. Then
their tempers grew sour and the prospect steadily grew more unpleasant.

#12. Nelson.#--The emigration spirit was at this time strong in England; for it was in the
year 1840 to 1841 that free settlers chiefly colonised both Victoria and South Australia. New
Zealand was as much a favourite as any, and when the New Zealand Company proposed in 1841 to
form a new colony somewhere in that country to be called Nelson, nearly 100,000 acres were
sold at thirty shillings an acre to men who did not know even in which island of New Zealand
the land was to be situated. In April of the same year the pioneers of the new settlement started
in the ships Whitby and Will Watch, with about eighty settlers, their wives, families and servants.
Captain Arthur Wakefield was the leader, and he took the ships to Wellington, where they waited
while he went out to search for a suitable site. He chose a place at the head of Tasman Bay,
where, in a green hollow fringed by a beautiful beach and embosomed deep in majestic hills,
the settlers soon gathered in the pretty little town of Nelson. The soil was black earth resting
on great boulders; out of it grew low bushes easily cleared away, and here and there stood
a few clumps of trees to give a grateful shade. The place was shut in by the hills so as to
be completely sheltered from the boisterous gales of Cook Strait, and altogether it was a place
of dreamy loveliness. Its possession was claimed by Rauparaha, the warrior, on the ground of
conquest. With him and other chiefs the settlers had a conference, the result of which was
that a certain specified area round the head of the bay was purchased. But the white men regarded
themselves as having the right of superior beings to go where they wished and do with the land
what they wished. Finding a seam of good coal at a place outside their purchase they did not
in any way scruple to send a vessel to carry it off, in spite of the protests of the Maoris.

#13. Death of Governor Hobson.#--These things hinted at troubles which were to come, but in
1842 all things looked promising for the colonies of New Zealand. There were altogether about
12,000 white persons, most of them being men who wore blue shirts and lived on pork and potatoes.
Auckland the capital had 3,000 but, Wellington was the largest town with 4,000 people. Next
to that came Nelson with 2,500; New Plymouth and Wanganui were much smaller but yet thriving
places. They had no less than nine newspapers, most of them little primitive sheets, but wonderful
in communities so young. In October, 1841, Dr. George Selwyn was appointed to be Bishop of
New Zealand; and he left England with a number of clergymen who settled in Auckland, Wellington,
Nelson, and New Plymouth. Churches began to spring up, and schools not only for white children,
but also for Maoris. An immense change for the better had appeared among the Maoris. The last
case of cannibalism took place about this time; and though they still fought among one another,
it was not with the same awful bloodshed that had characterised the previous twenty years.

On the 16th November, 1840, the Queen declared New Zealand an independent colony. Hobson was
then no longer Lieutenant-Governor merely, and subject to the Governor at Sydney. He was Governor
Hobson, and of equal rank with all the other Governors. He now had a Legislative Council to
assist him in making for New Zealand such laws as might be needed in her peculiar circumstances.
In that council the Chief Justice, the Colonial Secretary, the Surveyor-General, the Attorney-General
and the Protector of the Maoris had seats. But Hobson did not long enjoy his new dignity. He
had had a difficult task to perform, and his duty had led him into conflict with many people
who wished to purchase their land from the natives at ridiculous prices. In the midst of his
worries he had several strokes of paralysis, of which the last killed him in September, 1842;
and he was buried in the cemetery at Auckland. He had lived, however, to see New Zealand colonised,
and had died much liked by the Maoris, without seeing any of that bitter struggle between the
two races which was soon to shed so much blood and waste so much treasure.

CHAPTER XXV.

WHITE MEN AND MAORIS.

#1. Govenor Fitzroy.#--When Governor Hobson died, his place was taken by his friend Lieutenant
Shortland until a new Governor could be sent out. The English people were at this time very
anxious to see that the natives of new lands which they colonised should be fairly treated,
and for that purpose they chose Captain Fitzroy to be the new Governor. Up to this time he
had been the captain of a ship and had made himself famous in surveying and mapping little
known shores in his ship the Beagle, in which he had visited New Zealand on a trip round the
world, and he was therefore called to give evidence as to its condition before the Committee
of the House of Lords in 1838. He was well known to have shown much consideration to native
tribes, and his strong wish to deal justly by them had often been shown. This was the main
reason for his appointment. He landed in November, 1843, and found the colony in a state of
great depression, the public treasury being not only empty but in debt. For many officials
had been appointed, judges, magistrates, policemen, customs receivers and so on; and to pay
the salaries of these every one had relied on the continued sale of land.

But in 1841 there had come out the first Land Commissioner, William Spain, who began to inquire
into the disputes about land which had arisen between white men and Maoris. Out of every ten
acres the white men said they had bought he allowed them to keep only one. This was but fair
to the Maoris, who had been induced very often to make most foolish bargains; but the settlers
ceased to buy land when they were not certain of keeping it. Hence the land sales stopped;
the Governor owed £20,000 more than he could pay, and so he was confronted with troubles from
his very first arrival.

#2. Wairau Massacre.#--Just before he came an incident had happened which deepened the trouble
of the colony. At the north of the South Island, not far from Nelson, there was a fine valley
watered by the stream Wairau, which Colonel Wakefield claimed, alleging that it was part of
the land he had bought with the Nelson district. Rauparaha and his son-in-law, Rangihaeata,
claimed it by right of conquest, and they had a couple of hundred stout warriors at their back,
all well armed with muskets. Mr. Spain sent word that he was coming to settle the dispute,
but, in spite of that, Captain Wakefield sent surveyors to measure out the land for occupation
by the settlers. The surveyors were turned off by Rauparaha, who carried their instruments
and other property carefully off the land and then burnt the huts they had put up. The Maoris
did no violence, and were courteous though determined. The surveyors returned to Nelson, and
Captain Wakefield induced the local magistrates to issue a warrant for the arrest of Rauparaha
and Rangihaeata. To execute this warrant Mr. Thompson, the police magistrate, himself went
in a small vessel, and with him went Captain Wakefield, seven other gentlemen, and forty labourers,
in all a party of forty-nine, of whom thirty-five were armed with guns.

When they landed at the mouth of the Wairau River, Piraha, a Christian native, met them and
begged them not to go on, as Rauparaha was ready to fight, but they paid no attention, and
after marching eight miles up the pretty valley they saw the Maoris about 100 in number standing
behind the stream, which though only waist-deep had a rushing current of chilly water. Rauparaha
said: "Here am I. What do you want with me?" Mr. Thompson said he must go to Nelson; and an
irritating conversation ensued. Rangihaeata drew up his tall form, his curly black hair setting
off a face of eagle sharpness, and from his eye there gleamed an angry light. Behind him stood
his wife, the daughter of Rauparaha, and near them this latter chief himself, short and broad,
but strong and wiry-looking, a man with a cunning face, yet much dignity of manner. When the
handcuffs were produced by Mr. Thompson, Rauparaha warned him not to be so foolish. The magistrates
gave the order to fix bayonets and advance; as the white men were crossing the stream a shot
was fired by one of them. It struck dead the wife of Rangihaeata. Thereupon the Maoris fired
a volley and the white men hesitated on the brink of the water; a second volley and a third
told upon them with deadly effect, and the labourers, who carried arms but had neither martial
spirit nor experience, turned and fled.

Five of the gentlemen with four of the labourers stood their ground, and when the Maoris crossed
they surrendered. Rauparaha called out to spare them; but Rangihaeata, mad at the loss of a
wife he loved, brained them with his tomahawk one after another, while the young men hunted
the labourers through the trees and slew such as they overtook. Twenty-seven white men reached
the shore and were carried quickly in the boats to the brig, five of them badly wounded. Twenty-two
lay dead alongside of five natives whom the white men had slain.

Rauparaha feared the vengeance of the white man. He had few resources in the South Island,
while the Nelson settlers could send 500 armed men against him. He crossed in his own war canoes,
over a stormy strait in wild weather; weary and wet with spray, he landed in the south of the
North Island, roused his countrymen by his fervid oratory, to which he gave a fine effect by
jingling before them the handcuff's with which he was to have been led a prisoner to Nelson.
A day or two after the massacre, a Wesleyan clergyman went out from Nelson to Wairau and reverently
buried those ghastly bodies with the cloven skulls. Not one had been mangled, far less had
there been any cannibalism.

#3. Effects of Wairau Massacre.#--The Maoris were clearly less ferocious than they had been,
and more than half of them had become fervid Christians after a fashion, but in some respects
they were getting their eyes opened. The missionaries had told them that the white men were
coming for their benefit; yet now they began to see that the white men were soon to be the
lords of the soil, and that the natives must sink back into the position of servants. If a
white man visited a Maori village he was received as a man of distinction and entertained.
If a Maori chief went to a white man's town, he was allowed to wander in the street; or if
at all accosted it was with the condescension of a superior race to a race of servants. The
Maori blood was firing up. The story of Wairau made them change their mind about the white
man's courage. The whalers had been hearts of daring; these new-comers had run and bawled for
their lives. The natives were anxious also as to the result which would happen when all the
lands near the shore should have been occupied by white men, and they themselves hemmed up
in the interior.

A special interest was given to these feelings when in 1844 Te Whero Whero gave a great feast,
only two miles out of Auckland, partly as a welcome to Governor Fitzroy, and partly as a demonstration
in regard to the land question. He displayed a lavish bounty; 11,000 baskets of potatoes and
9,000 sharks, with great stores of other provisions, were distributed. But when the settlers
saw a war dance of 1,600 men, all well armed with muskets, and drilled with wonderful precision,
they felt that their lives were at the mercy of the native tribes. Not one-fourth of that number
of armed men with any training for battle could have been sent forth from the settlement for
its own defence. This gave a significance to the Wairau massacre that created quite a panic.
Fresh settlers ceased to come; many that were there already now left. Those who had taken up
farms far out in the country abandoned them and withdrew to the towns.

#4. Honi Heke.#--And yet the great majority of the Maoris seem to have had no unfriendly purpose.
When Governor Fitzroy went down to see Rauparaha he had no more than twelve white men with
him, when he entered an assemblage of 500 Maoris. He said he had come to inquire about the
sad quarrel at Wairau, and Rauparaha told him his story while others supported it by their
evidence. Fitzroy stated that the Maoris had been very wrong to kill those who had surrendered,
but as the white men had fired first he would take no vengeance for their death. Indeed, at
Wellington and Nelson, Fitzroy openly said that the magistrates were wholly misguided in trying
to arrest the native chief; and at Nelson he rebuked all those who had been concerned in the
affair. This gave great offence to the white men. They asked if the blood of their friends
and relatives was thus to be shed and no sort of penalty to be exacted for the slaughter. Many
of the magistrates resigned, and a deep feeling of irritation was shown towards the Governor,
some of the settlers petitioning the English Government to recall him.

In the August of 1844 a young chief named Honi Heke, who dwelt at the Bay of Islands, on account
of a private quarrel with a rough whaler, entered the town of Kororarika with a band of armed
followers. He plundered a few shops and cut down a flagstaff on which the Union Jack floated
from a steep hill behind the town. There were then not more than ninety soldiers in New Zealand,
and when Heke threatened to burn Kororarika, and do the same to Auckland, there was too good
reason to fear that he might be as good as his word, for he had 200 well-armed men at his back,
and a comrade of his, named Kawiti, had nearly as many. A chief named Waka-Nene with his men
kept Heke in check, while Fitzroy sent to Sydney and received 160 soldiers with two cannon.
These landed at the Bay of Islands, but Waka-Nene begged the Governor not to hurry into hostilities.
He arranged for a friendly meeting. Fitzroy met nine principal chiefs, who apologised and made
Heke send also a written apology. Fitzroy said he would redress some wrongs the natives said
they suffered, and having obtained from Heke ten muskets by way of fine and having again set
up the flagstaff he returned to Auckland.

But before the year was ended Heke approached the town once more with 100 armed men. He insulted
it from the hills, cut down the flagstaff again, and then withdrew to the forests. Fitzroy
published a proclamation offering £100 for his capture, and Heke replied by offering £100 for
the head of Fitzroy. The Governor now caused a new flagstaff to be set up, all sheathed with
iron at the bottom, and with a strong wooden house attached to it, in which a score of soldiers
were always to keep guard. A block-house or small wooden fortress was set up at a little distance
down the hill towards Kororarika. Nevertheless, Heke said he would come and cut down the flagstaff
again. Then the inhabitants of Kororarika began to drill in order to give him a warm reception
if he came. Lieutenant Philpott, the commander of the Hazard ship of war, came ashore to drill
them, and to mount one or two cannon. Yet Heke, lurking among the hills, contrived by a sudden
dash to capture Lieutenant Philpott. However, after dealing courteously with him, he released him.

#5. Kororarika Burnt.#--On 11th March, 1845, at daylight, Heke with 200 men crept up to the
flagstaff, surprised the men in the house attached, and when twenty men came out of the lower
block-house to help their friends on the top of the hill, he attacked them and drove them down
to the town in the hollow beside the shore. Close to the beach was a little hill, and on the
top of this hill stood a house with a garden surrounded by a high fence. Behind this the soldiers
and all the people of Kororarika took refuge. From the rocky high ground round about the Maoris
fired down upon them, while the white men fired back, and the guns of the Hazard, which had
come close in to the shore, kept up a constant roar. For three hours this lasted, ten white
men being killed as well as a poor little child, while thirty-four of the natives were shot
dead. The Maoris were preparing to retreat when, by some accident, the whole of the powder
that the white men possessed was exploded. Then they had to save themselves. The women and
children were carried out boat after boat to the three ships in the harbour. Then the men went
off, and the Maoris, greatly surprised, crept cautiously down into the deserted town. They
danced their war dance; sent off to their parents in the ships some white children who had
been left behind, and then set fire to the town, destroying property to the value of £50,000.

Heke's fame now spread among the Maoris. When the settlers from Kororarika were landed at Auckland,
homeless, desperate, and haggard, a panic set in, and some settlers sold their houses and land
for a trifle, and departed. Others with more spirit enrolled themselves as volunteers. Three
hundred men were armed and drilled. Fortifications were thrown up round the town, and sentries
posted on all the roads leading to it. At Wellington and Nelson also men were drilled and stockades
were built for defence.

#6. First Maori War.#--But Honi Heke was afraid of the soldiers, and when Colonel Hulme arrived
from Sydney with several companies he withdrew to a strong pah of his, eighteen miles inland.
Hulme landed at the nearest point of the coast, with a force of 400 men; these were joined
by 400 friendly allies under Waka-Nene, whose wife led the tribe in a diabolic war dance, not
a little startling to the British soldiers. The road that was to lead them to Honi Heke was
only a track through a dense forest. Carts could not be taken, but each man carried biscuits
for five days and thirty rounds of ammunition. Under four days of heavy rain they trudged along
in the dripping pathway, all their biscuits wet and much of their powder ruined. At last on
a little plain, between a lake and a wooded hill, they saw before them the pah of Honi Heke.
Two great rows of tree trunks stuck upright formed a palisade round it. They were more than
a foot thick, and twelve feet high, and they were so close that only a gun could be thrust
between them. Behind these there was a ditch in which stood 250 Maoris, who could shoot through
the palisades in security.

The British slept that night without tents round fires of kauri gum, but next morning all was
astir for the attack. A rocket was sent whizzing over the palisades. It fell and burst among
the Maoris, frightening them greatly, but succeeding discharges were failures, and the Maoris
gathered courage to such an extent that a number under Kawiti came out to fight. The soldiers
lowered their bayonets and charged, driving them back into the pah. During the night while
the white men were smoking round their fires, the sound of the plaintive evening hymn rising
in the still air from the pah suggested how strong was the hold that the new faith now had
on the Maori mind. Next day Colonel Hulme, seeing that a place defended on all sides by such
a strong palisade could not be captured without artillery, dug the graves of the fourteen soldiers
killed, and marched back carrying with him thirty-nine wounded men.

There was dismay in Auckland when this news arrived. What could be said when 400 English soldiers
retreated from 250 savages? But, on the other hand, the Maoris had learnt a lesson. They could
not fight against English bayonets in the open, but while taking aim from behind palisades
they were safe. Therefore they began in different places to strengthen their fortresses, and
Honi Heke added new defences to his pah of Oheawai, which stood in the forest nineteen miles
from the coast.

#7. Oheawai.#--More soldiers were sent from Sydney, and with them, to take the chief command,
Colonel Despard, who had seen much fighting against hill tribes in India. He landed 630 men
and six cannons; but these latter, being ship's cannons on wooden carriages with small wheels,
stuck in the boggy forest roads. The men had to pull the guns, and they were assisted by 250
friendly Maoris. On the evening of 22nd June, 1845, they spread out before the pah during the
gathering dusk. It was a strong place. In the midst of a deep and gloomy forest, a square had
been cleared about a third of a mile in length and in breadth. Great trunks of trees had been
set up in the earth, and they stood fifteen feet high; between their great stems, a foot or
eighteen inches thick, there was just room enough left for firing a musket. Three rows of these
gigantic palings, with a ditch five feet deep between the inner ones, made the fortress most
dangerous to assault; and in the ground within hollows had been dug where men could sleep secure
from shells and rockets. Two hundred and fifty warriors were there with plenty of muskets and
powder.

On the second morning the British had got their guns planted within a hundred yards of the
palisade, but the small balls they threw did little harm to such huge timber. The whole expedition
would have had to retire had not a heavier gun come up. This threw shot thirty-two pounds in
weight, and after twenty-six of these had struck the same place, a breach was seen of a yard
or two in width. Colonel Despard ordered 200 men with ropes and hatchets and ladders to be
ready for an assault at daybreak. In the still dawn of a wintry morning, the bugles rang out
and the brave fellows gathered for the deadly duty. They rushed at the breach, and for ten
minutes a wild scene ensued. The place was very narrow, and it was blocked by resolute Maoris,
who shot down exactly half of the attacking party. Many of the soldiers forced their way through,
but only to find a second and then a third palisade in front of them. Then they returned, losing
men as they fled, and the whole British force fell back a little way into the forest. That
night the groans and cries of the wounded, lying just outside the pah, were mingled with the
wild shouts of the war dance within. Two days later the Maoris hoisted a flag of truce, and
offered to let the white men carry off the dead and wounded. Thirty-four bodies lay at the
fatal breach, and sixty-six men were found to have been wounded.

A week later another load of cannon balls for the heavy gun was brought up, and the palisades
were further broken down. A second assault would have been made, but during the night the Maoris
tied up their dogs, and quietly dropping over the palisades at the rear of the pah, got far
away into the forest before their retreat was known, for the howling of the dogs all night
within the pah kept the officers from suspecting that the Maoris were escaping. The British
destroyed the palisades, and carried off the stores of potatoes and other provisions which
they found inside.

#8. Governor Grey.#--Fitzroy was preparing to chase Heke and Kawiti into their fastnesses,
when he was recalled. The English Government thought he had not acted wisely in some ways and
they blamed him for disobeying their instructions. They had more faith in that young officer,
George Grey, who, after exploring in Western Australia, was now the Governor of South Australia.
He arrived in November, 1845, to take charge of New Zealand; and at once went to Kororarika,
where he found 700 soldiers waiting for orders. But he did not wish for fighting, if it could
be avoided. He sent out a proclamation that Maoris who wished peace were to send in their submission
by a certain day. If they did, he would see that the treaty of Waitangi was kept, and that
justice was done to them.

Honi Heke sent two letters, but neither of them was satisfactory; and as more than a year passed
without any signs of his submitting, Colonel Despard was directed to go after him. Heke was
at a pah called Ikorangi; but Kawiti had 500 Maoris at a nearer pah called Ruapekapeka.

#9. Ruapekapeka.#--Despard took his men sixteen miles in boats up a river; then nine miles
through the forest, and on the 31st December he had 1,173 soldiers with 450 friendly natives
in a camp 800 yards from the pah. It was like the other pahs, but bigger and stronger, for
behind the palisades there were earthen walls into which cannon balls would only plunge without
doing any harm. Three heavy guns, however, were mounted, and when the Maoris sent up their
flag, the first shot was so well aimed as to bring its flagstaff down amid the ringing cheers
of the white men. All New Year's Day was spent in pouring in cannon balls by the hundred, but
they did little harm. Next day the Maoris made a sally, but were driven back with the bayonet.
Meantime, Heke came in one night with men to help his friend, and heavy firing on both sides
was kept up for a week, after which two small breaches appeared near one of the corners of
the palisades. The next day was Sunday, which the Maoris thought would be observed as a day
of rest, but the soldiers, creeping cautiously up, pushed their way through the breaches; a
number of the Maoris ran to arms and fired a volley or two, but before the main body could
do anything several hundred soldiers were in the place. A stout fight took place, during which
thirteen white men were killed. The Maoris, now no longer under cover, were no match for the
soldiers, and they fled, leaving behind them all the provisions that were to have kept them
for a whole season. This discouraged them, and Heke and Kawiti saw their men scatter out and
join themselves to the quieter tribes for the sake of food. They therefore wrote to Grey asking
peace, and promising to give no further trouble. Grey agreed, but left 200 soldiers at Kororarika
in order to keep the Maoris of the district in check.

#10. Rauparaha.#--During the eighteen months while Heke's war was going on, troubles had been
brewing at Wellington, where Rauparaha and Rangihaeata kept up an agitation. The latter declared
his enmity; he plundered and sometimes killed the settlers; and when soldiers were sent round
to keep him in order he surprised and killed some of them. But Rauparaha pretended to be friendly,
though the Governor well knew he was the ringleader in the mischief. Grey quietly sent a ship,
which by night landed 130 soldiers just in front of Rauparaha's house on the shore. They seized
him sleeping in bed, and he was carried round to Auckland, where for some months he was kept
a prisoner, though allowed to go about. Rangihaeata fled into the wildly wooded mountain ranges
of the interior. Once or twice he made a stand, but was driven from his rocky positions, with
the slaughter of men on both sides. At last he and his followers scattered out as fugitives
into lonely and savage regions into which they could not be followed.

Thinking that good roads would do much to keep the country quiet, Grey offered half a crown
a day to Maoris who would work at making roads. Quite a crowd gathered to the task, and for
a while white men and Maoris toiled happily together, making good carriage roads into the heart
of the country. But at Wanganui, in May, 1847, land disputes roused a tribe to bloodshed. They
killed a white woman and her four little children; they attacked the town, and when the inhabitants
withdrew to a stockade they had made, a fight took place which lasted for five hours, after
which the Maoris burnt the town and retreated, carrying off all the cattle. Two months later,
Governor Grey reached Wanganui, with 500 men. He chased the Maoris up the valley and fought
them, gaining a decisive victory over them with the loss of two white men killed. He gave them
no rest till the chiefs applied for peace, and early in the next year a meeting was held, and
the principal chiefs of the district promised to obey the Queen's laws. The war had lasted
five years, had cost a million pounds, and the lives of eighty-five white men, besides those
of perhaps a hundred Maoris.

The English Government withdrew the larger part of the soldiers from New Zealand; but the colonists,
to make themselves safe, enrolled a body they called the New Zealand Fencibles. They were all
old soldiers who had retired from the British army, and who were offered little farms and a
small payment. Five hundred came out from England on these terms, and were placed in four settlements
round Auckland for the protection of that town. They were really farmers, who were paid to
be ready to fight if need should arise. With their wives and children they made a population
of 2,000 souls.

In this same year Rauparaha was allowed to go home. He was surprised at the permission and
grateful for it; but he was an old man and died in the following year. In 1850 Honi Heke died,
but Rangihaeata lingered on till 1856, giving no further trouble.

Governor Grey dealt fairly with the Maoris. He paid them for their lands. He hung such white
men as murdered them. He set up schools to educate their children, and distributed ploughs
and carts, harrows and horses, and even mills, so that they might grow and prepare for themselves
better and more abundant food than they had ever known before.

CHAPTER XXVI.

NEW ZEALAND, 1843-1890.

#1. Otago.#--Meantime the New Zealand Company had not been idle, and E. G. Wakefield's busy
brain was filled with fresh schemes. In 1849 an association had been formed at Glasgow in connection
with the Free Church of Scotland, to send Scottish families out to New Zealand. Not knowing
anything of the country, the new association asked the help of the New Zealand Company, which
was readily given, as the new settlers proposed to buy land from the company. In 1844 an exploring
party was sent out, and, after some inquiry, chose a place on the east coast of the South Island,
called Otago. With the consent of the Governor 400,000 acres were there bought from the natives,
and it seemed as if a new colony would soon be formed. But the news of the Wairau massacre
and the unsettled state of the natives frightened intending settlers for a time. It was not
till November, 1847, that the John Wycliff and the Philip Lang sailed from Greenock with the
first company of settlers. They reached their new home in March, 1848, under the guidance of
Captain Cargill, an old soldier, who had been chosen as leader of the new settlement. At the
head of a fine harbour, which they called Port Chalmers, they laid the foundations of a town,
to which they gave the patriotic name of Dunedin, Gaelic for Edinburgh. It was in a fine district,
troubled by few natives, and it steadily grew. Less than a year later, it had 745 inhabitants,
who could boast of a good jetty, and a newspaper. The life of pioneers cannot be very easy,
but these were of the right sort and prospered, and more would have joined them but for two
circumstances. First came the news of the rich gold discoveries in California; and the most
adventurous spirits hurried thither. Not only did this keep settlers from coming to New Zealand,
but indeed a thousand of those she possessed left her shores for the goldfields. Then in this
same year, 1848, a violent earthquake took place, which knocked down £15,000 worth of buildings
in Wellington, and killed a man with his two children.

#2. Canterbury.#--Yet these unlucky accidents only delayed the progress of the colony by a
year or two, and in the year 1850 a new settlement was formed. Seven years before this, Wakefield
had conceived the idea of a settlement in connection with the Church of England. A number of
leading men took up the notion, and among them was the famous Archbishop Whately. An association
was formed which bought 20,000 acres of the New Zealand Company's land, to be selected later
on. The settlers paid a high price for this land, but the greater part of the money so received
was to be used for their own benefit, either in bringing out fresh settlers or in building
churches and schools. A bishop and schoolmasters were to go out; a nobleman and other men of
wealth bought land and prepared to take stock and servants out to the fine free lands of the
south. Wakefield had enlisted in the new scheme a gentleman named John Robert Godley, who became
very ardent, and under his direction three ships were filled with 600 settlers and their property,
and left England on their long voyage to the Antipodes. They reached their destination, the
east coast of the South Island, on 16th December, 1850, and gladly felt the soil of a lovely
land under their feet. In their enthusiasm they sang the National Anthem, and scattered out
to view their new homes. A high and rugged hill prevented their seeing inland till they climbed
to its brow, and then they perceived long plains of fertile soil, watered by numerous streams
of bright and rapid water. They resolved to found their city on the plains, making only a port
upon the sea-shore. Governor Grey and his wife came over from Wellington to welcome them, and
they found that much had been done to make them comfortable. Large sheds had been put up in
which they could find shelter till they should build their own homes. A pretty spot by a river
named the Avon was chosen for the town, which was laid out in a square; and a church and schoolroom
were built among the first erections. In keeping with the religious fervour that lay at the
basis of the whole undertaking, the town was called Christchurch; while the name of Lyttelton
was given to the seaport, a road being made between the two and over the hill.

During the next year 2,600 settlers arrived. Some of these were young men of birth and fortune,
who brought with them everything needed to transplant to New Zealand the luxuries of England.
A large proportion of the settlers were labouring men of a superior class, who were brought
out as servants at the expense of the wealthy settlers. There was a good deal of disappointment.
Many of the labourers crossed over to Australia, where the gold discoveries offered every man
a chance of fortune, and where wages were very high. The wealthiest people therefore had to
do their own work, and few of them liked it. The result was that many left the settlement and
never came back to it. But from Australia came relief. For some of the squatters who had been
dislodged by the inroad of diggers to Victoria, hearing of the great grassy plains of Canterbury,
with never a tree to be cleared from the natural pasturage, crossed with flocks of sheep, and
bought land in the new settlement. In 1853 Canterbury had 5,000 people; it produced £40,000
worth of wool a year, and seventy vessels reached its seaport. For a place in its third year
such progress was wonderful.

#3. New Zealand Prosperous.#--The natives being at peace, and the price of land being reduced,
settlers streamed steadily into New Zealand. In 1853 there were 31,000 white people in the
colony, and they had bought from the natives 24,000,000 acres of land. They had a million of
sheep, and their exports were over £300,000 in value. The Government was quite solvent again,
having a revenue of £140,000 a year. A very large number of farms were by this time in full
work, those in the North Island being chiefly used for crops, those in the South Island chiefly
for sheep. But the New Zealand Company had disappeared. In 1850 it was a quarter of a million
pounds in debt, and it was wound up, leaving its shareholders with heavy losses.

An important event in the history of New Zealand occurred on 30th June, 1852, when the English
Parliament gave the colony power to make its own laws and manage its own affairs, practically
without interference from London. A bill was passed providing that there should be six provinces,
each with its own provincial council, consisting of not less than nine persons to be chosen
to manage local affairs. There was also to be the General Assembly, consisting of a legislative
council, appointed by the Governor, and a House of Representatives consisting of forty members
to be chosen by the colonists. The Governor, who was now Sir George Grey, did much to bring
these new arrangements into force and to adapt them to the needs of the settlers. Having ruled
well for eight years and brought the colony into a prosperous condition, and being required
to set in order the affairs of Cape Colony, he left New Zealand on the last day of 1853, much
regretted by the Maoris and also by the majority of the colonists.

Colonel Wynyard acted as Governor for the time being, and summoned the first Parliament of
New Zealand to meet in May, 1854. He had much difficulty in getting the system of Cabinets
of responsible Ministers to work smoothly. The colonists from different provinces had interests
which lay in opposite directions, and political matters did not move easily. He was glad when
the new Governor, Colonel Gore Browne, arrived in September, 1855. At that time New Zealand
had 45,000 white settlers in it, and the discovery next year of rich goldfields in Otago attracted
many more, and gave a great impetus to Dunedin. Everything promised a splendid future, when
again the Maoris became troublesome.

#4. The King Movement.#--The Waikato tribe had always been averse to the selling of their land.
They said truly enough that the money the white men gave for it was soon spent, but the land
was gone for ever, and the settlers were fencing in 40,000 additional acres every year. They
called a meeting on the banks of Lake Taupo to discuss the question. A large number of chiefs
were present, and they agreed to form a Land League, all members of which undertook to sell
no more land to white men. At this time also a new project was formed. The Maoris felt their
weakness whilst divided up into so many tribes. Union would make them strong. They resolved
to select one chief to be king of all the Maoris, and for that purpose they chose the redoubted
Te Whero Whero, who hoisted the Maori flag. But he was old and inclined to die in peace, and,
dying soon afterwards, was succeeded by his son, a young man of no ability. Many of the Maoris
held aloof from these leagues; they were of tribes hostile to the Waikatos, or else they were
glad to get the white man's money, and felt that they had still plenty of land for their own
use. But in the heart of the North Island, some 4,000 or 5,000 Maori warriors nursed a wild
project of driving the English out of the country. They gathered muskets and powder; they strengthened
their pahs and filled them with potatoes and yams. Governor Browne took no steps to check them,
and suffered several thousand muskets to be bought from English ships along the coasts.

#5. Taranaki War.#--Meantime a quarrel had been going forward which gave the Maoris a pretext
for fighting. In 1859 Governor Browne had visited Taranaki, and announced that if any of the
natives had land to sell he was ready to buy it. A Maori offered him 600 acres, proving that
he was the owner of the land. The Governor gave him £200 for it; but the chief of the tribe
to which this Maori belonged was one of the Land League, and refused to let the land be sold.
The Governor after inquiry came to the conclusion that as the rightful owner of the land was
willing to sell it, no one else had a claim to interfere. He sent surveyors up to measure the
land. They were stopped by the chief. The Governor sent some soldiers to protect the surveyors.
The whole of the Taranaki Maoris rose in arms, and swept the few soldiers down to the coast.
They then ravaged the whole district, burning houses, crops, and fences; and all the settlers
of Taranaki crowded for defence into the town of New Plymouth. Most of them were ruined, and
many of them left for other colonies. Governor Browne now sent round from Auckland all the
soldiers he had; but, in accordance with their agreement, the Waikato tribes sent warriors
to assist the Taranaki tribe. Their Maori king having no great influence, these were placed
under the command of Te Waharoa, a Maori chief of much skill and popularity. Many skirmishes
took place, in which the natives, through their quickness and subtle plans, inflicted more
injury than they received. But General Pratt having arrived from Sydney with fresh soldiers,
and prepared to sap the pahs and blow them up, the Maoris became afraid, and Te Waharoa proposed
that peace should be made, which was done in May, 1861.

#6. Second Maori War.#--Governor Browne then called upon the Waikato tribes, who were then
in arms, to make submission and take the oath of obedience to the Queen's laws. Very few did
so; and when Sir Duncan Cameron arrived to take the chief command with more troops and big
guns, he stated that he would invade the Waikato territory and punish those tribes for their
disobedience.

But then came news that the English Government, being dissatisfied with the way in which matters
were drifting into war, was going to send back Sir George Grey. He arrived in September, 1861,
to take the place of Colonel Browne, and after a month or two summoned a great meeting of the
Waikatos to hear him speak. They gathered and discussed the land question. Grey said that those
who did not wish to sell their land could keep it by the treaty of Waitangi; but that no one
must hinder another man from selling what was his own. The land for which Governor Browne had
given £200 at Taranaki was still in the occupation of armed Maoris, and it must be given up.
Grey reasoned with them, but they were obstinate. Bishop Selwyn went among them and exhorted
them to peace, but made no impression.

Meanwhile General Cameron set his men at work to make roads, and during the year and a half
while the Governor was trying to bring the Maoris to reason, he was making good military highways
throughout the North Island.

In October, 1862, the Maoris held another great meeting among themselves to discuss their position.
They had grown confident, and thought that the Governor's mildness arose from weakness. They
resolved to fight. The Governor sent soldiers to take possession of the land at Taranaki. Te
Waharoa sent word to the Taranaki Maoris to begin shooting, and he would soon be with them.
He was as good as his word, and laid a trap for a body of English soldiers and killed ten of them.

The Waikatos sent an embassy to all the other tribes, urging them to join and drive the white
men out of the country. Te Waharoa was chosen to command in a grand attack at Auckland, and
for that purpose the Maoris in two columns moved stealthily through the forest down the Waikato
valley towards the town, threatening to massacre every white man in it. But General Cameron
was there in time to meet them. They fell back to a line of rifle pits they had formed, and
from that shelter did much damage to the British troops. But at last the Maoris were dislodged
and chased with bayonets up the Waikato, losing fifty of their men. They had stronger entrenchments
farther up, where a thousand men were encamped with women to cook for them and to make cartridges.
So strongly were they posted that Cameron waited for four months whilst guns and supplies were
being brought up along the roads, which were now good and well made. By getting round to the
side of their camp, and behind it, he made it necessary for them to fall back again, which
they did.

#7. Rangiriri.#--They now made themselves very secure at a place called Rangiriri, where a
narrow road was left between the Waikato River and a boggy lake. This space they had blocked
with a fence of thick trees twenty feet high, and with two ditches running across the whole
length. In the midst of this strong line they had set up a redoubt, a sort of square fortress,
from the walls of which they could fire down upon the attackers in any direction. About 500
Maoris well armed took up their position in this stronghold. Cameron advanced against them
with 770 men and two guns, each throwing shot of forty pounds weight. At the same time four
gunboats with 500 soldiers were sent up the river to take the Maori position in flank. At half-past
four on a July morning the British bugles sounded the attack, and the fight lasted until the
darkness of night put an end to it. During that fierce day the British charged again and again,
to be met by a murderous fire from behind the palisades and from the walls of the redoubt.
Forty-one soldiers had been killed and ninety-one wounded, the line of palisades had been captured,
but the Maoris had all gathered safely within the redoubt. During the night the troops were
quartered all round so as to prevent them from escaping, and a trench was cut to lead to a
mine under the redoubt so that it could be blown up with gunpowder in the morning. The Maoris
saw this project and could not prevent it. In the early dawn, after a night spent in war dances
and hideous yelling, some of them burst out by the side towards the lake, and rushed past or
jumped over the soldiers who were resting there. A heavy fire, poured into them from their
rear, killed a great many of them. Seeing this, a large party of the Maoris, and among them
Te Waharoa and the Maori king, stayed in the redoubt. But they knew that they were trapped,
and next day they surrendered, in all 183 men with a few women. Sixty or seventy of the Maoris
had been killed, but several hundreds escaped.

#8. Orakau.#--Meantime General Carey, who was next in command to General Cameron, had been
chasing another large body of the Waikato tribe far up the river more than half way to its
source in Lake Taupo. It was a wild and mountainous district, and the Maoris were sheltered
at Orakau, a pah in a very strong position. Carey spent three days in running a mine under
the walls, while his guns and mortars kept up a perfect storm of shot and shell. Then he offered
to accept their surrender. They refused to give in. He begged them at least to let the women
and children go and they would be allowed to pass out unhurt. They said that men and women
would fight for ever and ever. Yet when the mines began to burst, and the guns poured in redoubled
showers of death, they found they could hold the place no longer. They formed a column, and
made a sudden rush to escape. So quick were they and so favourable the ground, that they would
have escaped if the British had not had a body of 300 or 400 cavalry, who rode after them and
sabred all who would not surrender. About 200 were killed, and although several hundreds escaped
yet they were so dispersed that they made no further stand. They left their pahs, and though
a series of skirmishes took place, yet the Waikato rebellion was ended, and Cameron had only
to leave a sufficient number of military settlers along the Waikato Valley to make certain
that peace and order would be maintained.

#9. The Gate Pah.#--There was a tribe at Tauranga, on the Bay of Plenty, with whom Governor
Grey was displeased, for they had sent men, guns and food to help the Waikatos, and they showed
a warlike disposition. He demanded their submission, and they refused it. He then sent General
Cameron with 1,500 soldiers to deal with them. This force found the Tauranga tribe prepared
to fight in a strong place called the Gate Pah, built on a ridge with a swamp at each side.
They had 500 men in it, all well armed. Cameron had three heavy guns placed in position, and
during the night 700 soldiers passed round one of the swamps to get at the rear of the Maoris.
In the morning a terrific fire was opened, and for two hours the place was swept by shot and
shell, but the Maoris had dug underground shelters for themselves, and were little injured.
After that the guns were used to break a hole in the palisades, and at four o'clock there was
a sufficient breach to admit an attacking party. Three hundred men were chosen, and put in
front of the place. A rocket was sent up as a signal, and the attacking party dashed at the
breach. As they entered it, not a Maori could be seen, but puffs of smoke all along the earthen
bank showed where they were concealed. The assailants were a dense crowd, on whom every shot
told. All the officers were killed. More men kept crowding in, only to drop before the murderous
fire. Suddenly a panic seized the men. A rush was made to get out of the breach again, and
while the soldiers were running away volley after volley was fired into the crowd. General
Cameron did not renew the attack, for evening was falling. There came on a dark wet night;
and although surrounded on all hands, the Maoris contrived to slip gently past the sentries,
leaving some wounded men behind them.

#10. Te Ranga.#--The Maoris fell back a few miles and chose a strong position at Te Ranga for
a new pah. They had only dug the ditches and made some rifle pits when the British were upon
them. The troops carried the position with a rush, the Maoris standing up against the bayonets
with the coolest courage. A hand-to-hand fight forced the natives out of the ditches, and then
they turned and fled. The horse soldiers pursued and killed many. Altogether 123 of the Maoris
were killed and a large number captured, while the English lost ten men killed.

#11. Wereroa.#--After this action, though skirmishes were frequent, the Maoris made no determined
stand, and on the English side affairs were carried on in a slow fashion. General Cameron had
under him 10,000 regular soldiers, and nearly 10,000 colonial volunteers. He had nearly a dozen
vessels of different sorts, either on the coasts or up the river, and he had an abundance of
heavy guns. There arose quarrels between him and the Governor, who thought that with less than
1,000 Maoris under arms more progress ought to have been made. General Cameron resigned and
departed in the middle of 1865. The Governor wished him before he went to attack a pah called
Wereroa, but the general said he required 2,000 more men to do it, and refused. Yet Sir George
Grey, taking himself the command of the colonial forces, captured the fort without losing a
man. The bulk of the Maoris escaped, and kept up for a time a guerilla warfare in forests and
on mountain sides; but at last the Tauranga tribes, or the miserable remnant that was left,
surrendered to the Governor. Grey, in admiration of their generous and often noble conduct
and their straightforward mode of fighting, allowed all the prisoners to go free; and though
he punished them by confiscating a quarter of their land, he did his best to settle them on
the other three-fourths in peace and with such advantages as British help could secure them.
So there came quietness round the Bay of Plenty.

#12. The Hau Hau Religion.#--Meantime new trouble was brewing in the Taranaki district. There
the soldiers were skirmishing with the Maoris, but had them well in control, when a pair of
mad or crafty native priests set the tribes in wild commotion, by declaring that the Angel
Gabriel had told them in a vision that at the end of the year 1864 all white men would be driven
out of New Zealand, that he himself would defend the Maoris, and that the Virgin Mary would
be always with them; that the religion of the white men was false, and that legions of angels
would come and teach the Maoris a better religion. In the meantime all good Maoris who shouted
the word Hau Hau as they went into battle would be victorious, and angels would protect their
lives. A body of these fanatics, deeply impressed with the belief in these and many other follies,
tried their fortunes against the soldiers at Taranaki, but with small success. Forty of them,
in spite of shouting their Hau Hau, fell before the muskets and guns of the white men. Then
300 of them made an effort in another direction, and, moving down the river Wanganui, threatened
the little town at its mouth. Wanganui was defended by 300 soldiers; but all the out settlers
up the valley were leaving their farms and hurrying in for shelter, when 300 men of the Wanganui
tribe, who liked the white men and were friendly with them, offered to fight the Hau Haus.
The challenge was accepted; and about 200 of the fanatics landed on a little island called
Moutoa, in the middle of the river. Though surrounded by a pretty margin of white pebbles,
it was covered with ferns and thick scrub. Through this at daybreak the combatants crept towards
each other, the Hau Haus gesticulating and making queer sounds. At last they fell to work,
and volley after volley was discharged at only ten yards distance. The friendly natives, having
seen three of their chiefs fall, turned and fled. Many had plunged into the river, when one
of their chiefs made a stand at the end of the island, and gathering twenty men around him
poured in a volley and killed the Hau Hau leader. This surprised the fanatics and they hesitated;
then a second volley and a charge routed them. Back came the friendly Maoris who had fled,
and chased their enemies into the stream, wherein a heavy slaughter took place. About seventy
of the Hau Haus were slain. The twelve who fell on the friendly side were buried in Wanganui
with military honours, and a handsome monument now marks the place where their bones rest.

#13. Conclusion of Maori Wars.#--In 1866 General Chute came to take command of the troops,
in place of General Cameron. A vigorous campaign crushed the Hau Haus after much skirmishing
in different parts of the Wellington district. But the chief trouble arose from another source.
The 183 prisoners taken at Rangiriri, together with some others taken afterwards, were detained
on board a hulk near Auckland. Sir George Grey wished to deal in a kindly fashion with them,
and proposed to release them if they gave their word not to give further trouble. The Ministers
of his Cabinet were against this proposal, but agreed that he should send them to an island
near Auckland to live there without any guards. They gave their promise, but broke it and all
but four escaped, Te Waharoa being among them. They chose the top of a circular hill thirty-five
miles from Auckland and there fortified themselves in a pah called Omaha. But they did no harm
to any one, and as they soon quietly dispersed they were not meddled with.

A wild outburst of Hau Hau fanaticism on the east coast of the Bay of Plenty stirred up the
fires of discord again, when a worthy old Church of England missionary named Mr. Volkner was
seized, and, after some savage rites had been performed, was hanged on a willow tree as a victim.
More fighting followed, in which a large share was taken by a Maori chief named Ropata, who,
clad in European uniform and with the title of Major Ropata, fought stoutly against the Hau
Haus, and captured several pahs.

#14. Te Kooti.#--When the last of these pahs was captured an English officer declared that
one of the friendly chiefs named Te Kooti was playing false and acting as a spy. Thinking to
do as Governor Grey had done with Rauparaha, this officer seized the chief, who, without trial
of any sort, was sent off to the Chatham Islands, a lonely group 300 miles away, which New
Zealand was now using as a penal establishment for prisoners. This conduct was quite unfair,
as Te Kooti, so far as can now be known, was not a spy, and was friendly to the English.

Nearly 300 Maoris were on the Chatham Islands, most of them Hau Hau prisoners. They were told
that if they behaved well they would be allowed to return in two years. When two years were
past and no signs of their liberation appeared, Te Kooti planned a bold escape. An armed schooner,
the Rifleman, having come in with provisions the Maoris suddenly overpowered the twelve soldiers
who formed their guard, and seized the vessel. One soldier was killed whilst fighting, but
all the rest were treated gently. The whole of the Maoris went on board and then the crew were
told that unless they agreed to sail the vessel back to New Zealand they would all be killed.
Day and night Maori guards patrolled the deck during the voyage, and one of them with loaded
gun and drawn sword always stood over the helmsman and compelled him to steer them home. They
reached the shores of New Zealand a little north of Hawke Bay, and landed, taking with them
all the provisions out of the vessel, but treating the crew in a kindly way. A ship was sent
round with soldiers who attacked the runaways, but they were too few, and too hastily prepared,
so that Te Kooti easily defeated them. Three times was he attacked by different bodies of troops,
and three times did he drive off his assailants. Cutting a path for himself through the forests,
he forced his way a hundred miles inland to a place of security. But his people had no farms,
and no means of raising food in these wild mountain regions, and the provisions they had taken
from the Rifleman were used in a few months.

#15. Poverty Bay Massacre.#--Then, roused to madness by hunger, of which some of them had died,
they crept cautiously back to the Poverty Bay district. Falling at night upon the little village,
they slaughtered men, women, and children, as well as all the quiet Maoris they could catch.
The dawn woke coldly on a silent village, wherein fifty or sixty bodies lay gashed and mangled
in their beds, or at their doors, or upon their garden paths. An old man and a boy escaped
by hiding. After taking all the provisions out of the place, Te Kooti set fire to the houses
and retreated to the hills, where, on the top of a peak 2,000 feet high, he had made a pah
called Ngatapa, which was defended on every side by precipices and deep gorges. There was only
one narrow approach, and that had been fortified with immense care. The colonial troops under
Colonel Whitmore, and bodies of friendly Maoris under Ropata, attacked him here. The work was
very difficult, for after climbing those precipitous hills there were two palisades to be carried,
one seven feet high and the other twelve. But science prevailed. After great exertions and
appalling dangers the place was captured by Ropata, who climbed the cliffs and gained a corner
of the palisades, killing a great number of Te Kooti's men in the action. During the night
the rest escaped from the pah, sliding from the cliffs by means of ropes. But in the morning
they were chased, and for two days the fugitives were brought back to the pah in twos and threes.
Ropata took it for granted that they were all concerned in the massacre at Poverty Bay. Each
of the captives as he arrived was stripped, taken to the edge of the cliff, shot dead, and
his body thrown over. About a hundred and twenty were thus slaughtered. But Te Kooti himself
escaped, and for the next two years he lived the life of a hunted animal, chased through the
gloomy forests by the relentless Ropata. He fought many fights; his twenty Hau Hau followers
were often near to death from starvation; but at length wearied out he threw himself on the
mercy of the white men, was pardoned, sunk into obscurity, and died in peace.

War was not really at an end till 1871; as up to that date occasional skirmishes took place.
But there never was any fear of a general rising of the Maoris after 1866.

#16. Progress of New Zealand.#--These wars were confined to the North Island. Otago, Canterbury,
and Nelson felt them only by way of increased taxes. Otherwise they were left in peace to pursue
their quiet progress. They multiplied their population sixfold; they opened up the country
with good roads; a railway was cut through the mountain to join Christchurch with its seaport,
Lyttelton, by a tunnel half a mile long. A similar but easier railway was made to join Dunedin
to Port Chalmers; gold was found in various parts, especially in Otago, and on the west coast
round Hokitika. For a time New Zealand sent out gold every year to the value of two and a half
million pounds, and this lucrative pursuit brought thousands of stout settlers to her shores.

In 1864 the New Zealand Parliament chose Wellington to be the capital of the colony, as being
more central than Auckland. In 1868 an Act was passed to abolish the provinces, and to make
New Zealand more completely a united colony. A great change began in this same year, when the
first Maori chief was elected to be a member of the New Zealand Parliament. Before long there
were six Maoris seated there, two of them being in the Upper House. These honourable concessions,
together with a fairer treatment in regard to their land, did much to show the Maoris that
their lives and liberties were respected by the white men. They had lost much land, but what
was left was now of more use to them than the whole had formerly been. Their lives and their
property were now safer than ever, and they learnt that to live as peaceful subjects of Queen
Victoria was the happiest course they could follow. The Government built schools for them and
sent teachers; it built churches for them and cared for them in many ways. Thus they became
well satisfied, even if they sometimes remembered with regret the freer life of the olden times.

But Sir George Grey, who was the warm friend of the Maori, was no longer Governor. He had finished
his work and his term of office had expired. Sir George Bowen came out to take his place. Grey
after a trip to England returned to take up his residence in New Zealand, and a few years later
allowed himself to be elected a member of its Parliament. Subsequently he became its Prime
Minister, sinking his own personal pride in his desire to do good to the country.

From 1870 to 1877 the affairs of the country were chiefly directed by ministries in which Sir
Julius Vogel was the principal figure. He started and carried out a bold policy of borrowing
and spending the money so obtained in bringing out fresh settlers and in opening up the land
by railways. This plan plunged the colony deeply into debt, but it changed the look of the
place, and although it had its dangers and its drawbacks, it has done a great deal for the
colony. At first the natives refused to let the railways pass through their districts, but
in 1872 a great meeting of chiefs agreed that it would be good for all to have the country
opened up. Some maintained a dull hostility till 1881, but all the same the railways were made,
until at length 2,000 miles were open for traffic.

Between 1856 and 1880 nineteen different ministries managed the affairs of New Zealand, one
after the other, the same Prime Minister however presiding over different ministries. The most
notable of these have been, Sir William Fox, Edward W. Stafford, Major Atkinson, and Sir Julius
Vogel.

In 1880 the colony had increased to 500,000 white people, owning 12,000,000 sheep and exporting
nearly £6,000,000 worth of goods. The Maoris were 44,000, but while the whites were rapidly
increasing, the Maoris were somewhat decreasing. They had 112,000 sheep and nearly 50,000 cattle,
with about 100,000 pigs.

The heavy expenditure of the borrowing years from 1870 to 1881 was followed by a time of depression
from 1880 to 1890, during which Sir Robert Stout and Major Atkinson were Prime Ministers; but
at the end of that period the colony began rapidly to recover. Its population approached 750,000,
with 42,000 Maoris; its sheep were nearly 20,000,000 in number; and its farms produced 20,000,000
bushels of wheat and oats. It sent £4,000,000 worth of wool to England, and about £1,000,000
worth of frozen meat. The general history of the last twenty years may be summed up as consisting
of immense progress in all material and social interests.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX.

                                     PAGE
  Abolition of Transportation          83
 Active                             196
  Adelaide                             70
  Agricultural Co., N.S.W.             44
  Albany                         118, 136
  Alexander, Mount                     97
  Alexandrina, Lake                    53
  Alfred, Prince                      171
 Alligator                          202
  Anti-Transportation                 161
  Arthur, Governor                     36
  Atkin, Judge-Advocate                30
  Auckland                            205
  Australia, name given                 2
  Australian Bight                    133
  Ballarat                             95
  Bass                         18, 20, 40
  Bathurst                             42
  Batman                       37, 58, 62
  Baudin                               23
  Bentley                             103
  Bligh                                29
  Blue Mountains                       40
  Botany Bay                        9, 11
  Bourke                           45, 64
  Bowen, Lieutenant                    32
  Bowen, Sir George                   129
 Boyd                               193
  Brady                                37
  Brisbane, Governor                   42
  Brisbane River                      120
  Britannia                           209
  Browne, Colonel                     162
  Browne, Colonel Gere                232
  Buccaneers' Archipelago               7
  Buckley                              63
  Burke and Wills                     143
  Burra Mines                          86
  Busby                               202
  Caen, De                             24
  Caley's Repulse                      40
  Cameron, Sir Duncan                 234
  Canterbury                          229
  Carpenter, General                    5
  Castlemaine                          97
  Castlereagh                          40
  Chisholm, Mrs.                       79
  Christchurch                        230
  Clarke                               20
  Clarke, Rev. W. B.                   91
  Clunes                               95
  Collins, Governor            12, 32, 57
  Convicts Prevention Act              99
  Cook's Voyages                   8, 118
  Corner Inlet                         21
  Cotton Plantations                  125
  Cowper, Charles                     170
  Crawford                             37
  Crozet, Captain                     190
 Cumberland, vessel                  24
  Cunningham, Allan                    49
  Dalley                              175
  Dalrymple                        22, 34
  Dampier                               6
  Darling River                        52
  Darling, Sir Charles                178
  Darling, Sir Ralph                   43
  Davey, Governor                      34
  Denison, Governor              108, 159
  D'Entrecasteaux                      11
  Despard, Colonel                    223
  Du Cane                             162
  Du Fresne                           190
 Dunbar                             110
  Dunedin                             229
 Duyfhen                              4
  Edel                                  5
 Endeavour                       8, 188
  Esmond                               95
  Eureka Stockade                     104
  Exhibitions--
    Sydney                            174
    Melbourne                         182
    Adelaide                          168
  Eyre, Edward                        132
  Fawkner                      57, 62, 66
  Fisher                               70
  Fitzroy, Governor                   215
  Fitzroy, Sir Charles                 83
  Flinders                     18, 22, 24
  Forrest                             154
  Foveaux, Colonel                     31
  Franklin, Sir John              38, 155
  Fremantle                           112
  Furneaux                             11
  Garden Island                       112
  Gate Pah                            238
  Gawler, Colonel                  71, 75
  Geelong                              60
  Giles                               154
  Gipps, Governor                      75
  Glenelg River                        54
  Godley, John Robert                 229
  Gold, early rumours of               90
  Gold in Queensland                  123
  Goldfields, aspect of                99
  Goldfields, rush to                  93
  Gregory, A. C.                      143
  Grey, Earl                           82
  Grey, Governor              75, 84, 224
  Grimes                               56
  Grose, Major                         16
  Hacking, Port                        20
  Haines                              176
  Hargraves                            91
  Hartog, Dirk                          4
  Hau Hau                             239
  Hawaiki                             186
  Hawkesbury                           16
  Henty Bros.                          61
  Hervey Bay                           23
  Hindmarsh, Governor                  71
  Hobart Town                          32
  Hobson, Governor               203, 214
  Hokianga                            201
  Hongi                               195
  Honi Heke                           218
  Hotham, Sir Charles                 103
  Howe, Cape                            9
  Howitt                              151
  Hulme, Colonel                      221
  Hume and Hovell                      49
  Humffray                            104
  Hunter, Captain                  12, 16
 Investigator, vessel                23
  Jackson, Port                    10, 12
  Johnstone, Major                 28, 30
  Kangaroo Island                  23, 70
  Kapunda Mines                        85
  Keer-weer, Cape                       4
  Kennedy, the explorer               141
  Kennedy, a miner                    103
  Kororarika                     200, 220
  King, Lieutenant                 15, 25
  King George's Sound       111, 118, 136
  Lalor                          104, 105
  Lancey, Captain                      62
  Land Grants, W.A.                   113
  Land Laws, N.S.W.                    76
  Land League                         233
  Land Question                   46, 210
  Landsborough                        152
  Lang, Dr.                            80
  La Perouse                           11
  Latrobe                          65, 80
 Leeuwin                              4
  Legislative Assembly           108, 175
  Legislative Council    44, 80, 108, 215
  Leichardt                           140
  Licence Fee                         101
  Lonsdale                             65
  Lyttelton                           230
  Macarthur, John                      28
  M'Culloch                           179
  M'Kinlay                            152
  Macleay                              52
  Macquarie, Governor                  38
  Macquarie River                  42, 49
  Marion                               11
  Marsden, Samuel                     194
  Melbourne                        60, 65
  Merri Creek                          60
  Mitchell                             54
  Moreton Bay                     10, 119
  Murray, Lieutenant               23, 55
  Murray River                         52
  Nelson                              213
  New Hebrides                          2
  New Plymouth                        212
  New South Wales Corps                26
  New South Wales named                10
  New Zealand                      9, 188
  New Zealand Company                 207
  New Zealand Fencibles               227
  Norfolk Island                   15, 35
 Norfolk, sloop                      22
  Nuggets                              98
  Nuyts                                 5
  Oheawai                             223
  Orakau                              237
  Otago                               227
  Ovens River                     50, 101
  Oxley                           48, 119
  Parkes, Sir H.                      175
  Patriotic Six                       159
  Patterson, Colonel           16, 31, 34
  Peel, Mr.                           116
  Perth                               113
  Phillip, Governor                    12
  Polynesian Labour                   126
  Poole                               137
  Portland Bay                         55
  Port Chalmers                       229
  Port Phillip                         55
  Poverty Bay                         242
  Queen Charlotte Sound          190, 208
  Queensland                          123
  Quiros, De                            2
  Railways in N.S.W.                  171
  Rangihaeata                    216, 226
  Rangiriri                           235
  Rauparaha                      216, 226
  Ruapekapeka                         225
  Ruatara                             195
 Rebecca, vessel                     59
  Redcliff Peninsula                  120
  Representative Government       80, 232
  Risdon                               32
  Robe, Governor                       88
  Robertson, John                     170
  Rockhampton                         124
 Roebuck                              7
  Saltwater River                      60
  Sandhurst                            97
  Selwyn, Dr. George                  214
  Separation of Port Phillip           79
  Separation of Queensland            122
  Settled Government                  201
  Shoalhaven River                     21
  Shortland, Lieutenant      17, 210, 215
 Sirius, war-ship                    12
  Sorell, Governor                     35
  Soudan Expedition                   175
  South Australian Association         68
  Spain, William                      216
  Spencer's Gulf                       23
  Stony Desert                        139
  Strzelecki                           90
  Stuart, M'Douall               137, 153
  Sturt                           15, 136
 Supply, war-ship                    12
  Surville De                         189
  Sydney Cove                          13
  Tamar River                          22
  Taranaki                       211, 233
  Tarra                               193
  Tasman                           5, 187
  Tasmania named                      162
  Taylor                               37
  Te Kooti                            241
  Telegraph, overland                 166
  Te Pehi                        192, 194
  Te Ranga                            238
  Te Whero Whero            199, 212, 233
  Todd, Charles                       166
 Tom Thumb, boat                     18
  Torrens' Real Property Act          164
  Torrens, Colonel                     70
  Torres                                3
  Tribulation, Cape                    10
  Twofold Bay                          21
  University of Sydney                111
  Vancouver                            11
  Van Diemen                            5
  Vern                                105
  Victoria                        83, 175
  Vlaming                             112
  Wairau                              216
  Waitangi                            204
  Wakefield, Edward Gibbon   67, 207, 227
  Wakefield Colonel                   208
  Walker                              152
  Wanganui                            212
  Warburton                           154
  Weld, Governor                      162
  Wellington                          208
  Wentworth                       40, 109
  Wereroa                             239
  Western Port                     21, 58
  West Australia                      111
  Wilmot, Sir Eardley                 158
  Wilson's Promontory                  21
  Windsor                              40
  Wool-growing                         28
  Wynyard, Colonel                    232
  Yarra                                59
  York, Cape                   4, 24, 142
  Young, Sir Henry                89, 162
  Young, Sir John                     168
  Zaachen                               4

        ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS