As Jean went home the snow began to fall and the big flakes lodged on his shoulders and cap
and hands, but he didn't mind the cold for his heart was so warm. By and by as he ran down
the street he passed a tall house with the steps going up from the street, and there sitting
on the bottom step he saw a little boy with soft curling hair and a beautiful face, leaning
his head against the stone house, fast asleep. Somehow as Jean looked at the sleeping face,
his own heart grew still and quiet and warm, and he felt like he could look at it forever,
and suddenly he caught himself singing softly under his breath, "Peace on earth, good will
to men." And then he looked down at the little boy's feet and he saw that he was barefooted
and his little feet were purple with the cold. As Jean looked at the feet, and then at the
face of the child, and thought of the sweet song in his heart, he said, "Oh! I wish I could
give him my shoes, for I have stockings to keep me warm, but auntie would be so mad! And the
more he looked and thought, the more he longed to give his shoes away, until all at once he
said, "I know what I'll do, I'll give him one shoe and one stocking and then he won't be so
cold," and he felt as though he couldn't get his shoe and stocking off fast enough to give
them to the little child. So gently and tenderly he lifted the little cold foot in his hand
to put on the shoe that he did not waken the sleeping boy, even when he had put the stocking
on the other foot, and then as he stood up again and took a last look at the lovely face, before
he knew it he was singing aloud, "Peace on earth, good will to men." Then he hopped off home
in the snow with the happiest heart he had ever had.

Now, I wish the story turned out differently and that his auntie said when he told her about
it, "I'm so glad you did it, Jean." But she was so very cross, that she slapped Jean and sent
him off to bed without any supper, saying, "You had no right to give away that shoe and stocking
for my money paid for them!" Somehow Jean didn't mind doing without supper that night and he
soon went fast asleep and dreamed a beautiful dream, for he thought he was still singing "Peace
on earth, good will to men!" And he saw a vision of the little sleeping boy, that grew into
a tall and gentle man with a radiant face who walked to and fro in Jean's dream, singing with
him "Peace on earth, good will to men!" And he heard a very strange sound too, for his auntie's
voice, soft and gentle, said, "Jean, wake up, and come down and see what has happened," and
Jean came down the ladder and lo! there was a wonderful tree just like the other boys were
having today, and a goose, and by the fireplace his own wooden shoe, and beside it the mate
that he had given to the sleeping child, and far in the distance Jean heard the children's
voices singing as they ran down the street, "Peace, peace on earth, good will to men!" Then
the room grew very still and peaceful and Jean's heart did too--and through the silence there
came a voice so tender and loving--so gentle that the auntie's eyes were full of tears, and
Jean wanted to listen forever, and the voice said, "Jean, inasmuch as ye did it unto one of
the least of these, my brethren, ye did it unto ME."

[*] Adapted from the French of Francois Coppee, by Nannie-Lee-Frayser.

This is the story of how the fir tree became the Christmas tree.

At the time when the Christ Child was born all the people, the animals, and the trees, and
plants were very happy. The Child was born to bring peace and happiness to the whole world.
People came daily to see the little One, and they always brought gifts with them.

There were three trees standing near the crypt which saw the people, and they wished that they,
too, might give presents to the Christ Child.

The Palm said: "I will choose my most beautiful leaf, and place it as a fan over the Child."

"And I," said the Olive, "will sprinkle sweet-smelling oil upon His head."

"What can I give to the Child?" asked the Fir, who stood near.

"You!" cried the others. "You have nothing to offer Him. Your needles would prick Him, and
your tears are sticky."

So the poor little Fir tree was very unhappy, and it said: "Yes, you are right. I have nothing
to offer the Christ Child."

Now, quite near the trees stood the Christmas Angel, who had heard all that the trees had said.
The Angel was sorry for the Fir tree who was so lowly and without envy of the other trees.
So, when it was dark, and the stars came out, he begged a few of the little stars to come down
and rest upon the branches of the Fir tree. They did as the Christmas Angel asked, and the
Fir tree shone suddenly with a beautiful light.

And, at that very moment, the Christ Child opened His eyes--for He had been asleep--and as
the lovely light fell upon Him He smiled.

Every year people keep the dear Christmas Child's birthday by giving gifts to each other, and
every year, in remembrance of His first birthday, the Christmas Angel places in every house
a fir tree, also. Covered with starry candles it shines for the children as the stars shone
for the Christ Child. The Fir tree was rewarded for its meekness, for to no other tree is it
given to shine upon so many happy faces.

THE MAGI IN THE WEST AND THEIR SEARCH FOR THE CHRIST[*]

A Tale for the Christmas-Tide

By Frederick E. Dewhurst

[Sidenote: The Mountain of Vision]

Now, it happened a long time ago, in the year ----, but the exact year does not matter, because
you will not find this story written in the history of any of the nations of the world. But
in one of the countries of Europe bordering on the Mediterranean Sea was a lofty mountain,
which, to the dwellers in the plains below, seemed to reach to the very sky. At times its summit
was covered with clouds, so that it could not be seen; at other times it stood out fair and
clear, as though silently asking the people to look up and not down. The lower slopes of the
mountain were covered with olive trees, with groves of oranges and lemons, and with vineyards,
and they were dotted here and there with the little white cottages of the peasants who made
their living from these groves and vineyards, the fruit of which they sold in the city not
far away.

[Sidenote: Sunset in the Sea]

Along the mountain-side wound a foot-trail even to the summit, and nowhere, in all the region,
was there a finer view of the Mediterranean than from the summit of this mountain. In the long
summer afternoons the peasants and children would climb to the top and look off on the lovely
picture of land and sea. Then they would eat their simple lunch of bread and dates and olives
and quench their thirst from the spring on the mountain-side, which they called "Dew-of-heaven,"
so clear and fresh and sparkling was it; and when the sun began to touch the western sky with
his pencils of gold and carmine and purple, they hastened down, that they might reach their
cottages before the night shut in.

[Sidenote: A Stranger Cometh]

On the day when this story begins a man was standing on the summit of the mountain looking
across the sea in the direction where you will find Tyre and Joppa on the map. He was, very
plainly, not one of the peasants who lived on the mountain-side. He looked about sixty years
of age; he was tall and erect, though he carried a staff in his hand. His hair and beard were
long and flowing, and almost gray, but his eye was clear and penetrating, and he was looking
across the sea as though he expected some one to appear.

And while he stood there gazing seaward, there appeared a second man on the summit, helping
himself up with his staff, and panting with the effort of the long climb. From his dress and
manner it was plain that this man, too, was not one of the peasants, for, like the first comer,
he seemed to belong to another age and clime. The two men glanced at each other and gave such
greeting as strangers might who should meet in so solitary a spot as a mountain summit. Then
both lapsed into silence and looked off across the sea.

[Sidenote: And Findeth a Friend]

Presently the last comer seemed to awake from his reverie. He walked over to the place where
the other man was sitting, still gazing off toward Joppa, and touched him on the shoulder:
"A thousand pardons, my friend," he said, "but my mind is haunted with some far-off recollection,
as though in some other land and some far-off time I had seen thy face. Wilt thou have the
kindness to tell me thy name?"

Without lifting his eyes from the sea, and in a tone which seemed regretful and sad, the stranger
replied: "My name is Gaspard."

[Sidenote: A Far-off Pilgrimage Recalled]

"Gaspard! Indeed, then have I seen thee! Look at me, my friend; dost thou not remember me?
My name is Melchoir. Dost thou not recall that time, how long I know not, when thou and I and
Balthazar followed a star which led us to a little Jewish hamlet, thou bearing gold and I frankincense,
and Balthazar myrrh? Dost thou not remember how, on the long journey thither, we talked about
the young Prince, whom we expected to find in a royal palace, and how at last when we reached
the village, following the star, we were led not to a palace but to a little inn, and not even
to a room within the inn, but to the stable-yard, where we found a sweet-faced woman bending
over a babe cradled in a manger; and standing near, a sturdy peasant, proud and happy, whose
name was Joseph? Dost thou not remember, too, that when we had recovered from our surprise,
we left our gifts and greetings, and went our way as men who had been dreaming? Gaspard, dost
thou not remember?"

[Sidenote: And Wanderings in Many Lands]

And Gaspard, looking now intently in the other's face, replied: "Yes, Melchoir, I remember
thee, and I remember the journey of which thou hast spoken better than I remember aught else.
Neither have I forgotten the surprise and disappointment with which we came to the place whither
the star led us; nor how, after leaving our gifts, we went away as in a dream; and, Melchoir,
I have been dreaming ever since. Even here hast thou found me in a dream of perplexity. I am
still Gaspard, the wandering magician; for how many years I know not, I have wandered up and
down these lands of Europe. I have crossed the seas; in every place I have sought to find the
kingdom over which we were told this young prince was one day to reign. Dost thou not remember
that we were told His kingdom was to last forever, that He would reign in it himself forever
and would never die? Alas! I have lost the old power of the magician's art. I can summon no
star to guide me to the place where I shall find this kingdom and its king."

[Sidenote: If Only Balthazar Were Here]

"Truly, Gaspard," answered Melchoir, "the story of your wanderings is but the repetition of
my own; and even now was I drawn to this mountain summit on the self-same errand that brought
you here,--to see if I could not discover in the direction of yonder land, where Bethlehem
was, some star which might prove to be His star, and which might guide me in the new quest.
If only our old companion, Balthazar, were with us now, he might give us the clew to our search,
for not only was he more skilful in the magician's art, but he was braver and more courageous,
and withal more serene in spirit."

[Sidenote: A Song in the Air]

Now, even while Melchoir was speaking, a voice was heard a little way down the mountain. Gaspard
and Melchoir stopped to listen. The voice was singing, and the words of the song floated up
to them distinctly:

    If the sun has hid its light,
    If the day has turned to night,
    If the heavens are not benign,
    If the stars refuse to shine--

                  Heart of man lose not thy hope;
                  Door, there's none that shall not ope;
                  Path, there's none that shall not clear;
                  Heart of man! why shouldst thou fear?

[Sidenote: Balthazar Cometh]

"That," exclaimed Gaspard and Melchoir together, "is the voice of Balthazar," and they hastened
to meet him, for he was now almost at the summit, and the refrain of his song was still upon
his lips. At that moment Balthazar sprang up from the sloping path into full view of the two
men, and, giving each a hand, exclaimed: "Gaspard, Melchoir, beloved companions, I have found
you at last. The peasants below were not mistaken. From their description, I was certain I
should find you here. And you, too, have been searching these long years for the kingdom of
the Christ! and, like me, you have met with disappointment; but, comrades, be not of faint heart:

    Door, there's none that shall not ope;
    Path, there's none that shall not clear.

Let us hasten down the mountain, for see! the sky is already growing gold and crimson beyond
the pillars of Hercules. Let us seek the wayfarer's lodging with the hospitable peasants in
the valley, and tomorrow let us begin our search for the Christ anew. We have wandered alone;
let us invoke now the star to guide us together."

[Sidenote: Forget Not Hospitality]

That night, therefore, the three strangers lodged with the simple peasant people in the valley,
partaking with thankfulness of the coarse bread, the dates and the red wine--the common fare
of their daily life. Nor did they fail to notice a motto inscribed above the fireplace in rude
Greek letters:

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morrow they were ready to begin their search together for the Christ, and they hoped
not to wander far before they should find at least the outskirts of His kingdom. But whither
should they go? In what direction should they first turn their steps?

[Sidenote: Once More a Star]

While they were thus wondering and debating, Balthazar suddenly exclaimed: "I see the star!"
And behold, a little way before them, and at no great distance above their heads, they discerned
in the gray of the early morning a star of pale, opal light, which seemed to move forward as
the men moved toward it.

"We must follow the star!" Balthazar said in a whisper. Silently and breathlessly his companions
followed on.

Now, so intently did the three men keep their eyes fixed upon the star, and so eagerly did
they follow in the direction where it seemed to lead, that it was only after a considerable
time they discovered that they had become separated from each other, and that their paths were
getting farther and farther apart. Yet, there before each of them was the star, shining with
its soft, opalescent light, and still ringing in their ears were the words of Balthazar--"we
must follow the star."

[Sidenote: The Star Stands Still]

So each followed the star, each by himself alone. Gaspard's path wound along near the shore
of the gulfs and bays of the Mediterranean, until at last the the star turned southward and
drew him nearer and nearer to a great city, and finally stood still over the dome of a vast
cathedral. "It must be," thought Gaspard, "that I have come to the end of my search. This must
be the capital and palace of the eternal king."

[Sidenote: Marbled Aisle's Magnificence]

The square in front of the cathedral was thronged with people; multitudes were pouring in through
the great portals. Gaspard joined the throngs, and at last found himself under the mighty dome,
which seemed to him as far away as the sky itself. Everything in this wonderful place appealed
to his imagination. There were great rows of massive columns, symbol of a strength eternal,
and they seemed like wide-open arms holding out a welcome to the human race. There were statues
and paintings by great masters in art. The light of the sun poured in through many-colored
windows, on which were blazoned the deeds of heroes and saints. Strains of music from the great
organ in the distance floated out upon the air. Touched and thrilled by all he saw, Gaspard
exclaimed to himself: "The place on which I stand is holy ground."

[Sidenote: Kyrie Eleison]

Soon, however, he perceived that the throngs of people were not lingering, like himself, in
awe and wonder over the great columns and the dome, and the statues, and the paintings, and
the windows. Their eyes were fixed intently upon something that was going on in the far end
of the cathedral. An altar was there, and priests in white robes passing up and down before
it, and tall tapers burning around it. Near the altar was the image of a man hanging from a
cross; his hands and feet were pierced with nails, and a cruel wound was in his side. The people
were gazing at this altar, and at the image, and at what the white-robed priests were doing.
The strains of solemn music from the organ blended with the voices of priests chanting the
service. Clouds of incense rose from censers, swung with solemn motion by the altar-boys, and
the fragrance of the incense was wafted down the long aisles. At last, the tinkling of a bell.
The organ became silent for an instant, as though it felt within its heart the awful solemnity
of the moment; and then it burst forth into new rapture, and the people began pouring out through
the great doors.

[Sidenote: We Must Follow the Star]

Gaspard went forth with the throng into the cathedral square. "And this," he said, "is the
end of my search. I have found the Christ. His kingdom is in the imagination of man. How beautiful,
how wonderful, how strange it was! 'Dominus vobiscum,' did not the priests say? Here, then,
at last I have found the city of the great King."

But as he lingered, behold! the star which had stood over the dome of the cathedral was now
before him, as at first, and seemed to waver and tremble, as if beckoning him on. So, although
his feet seemed bound to the spot, and his heart was still throbbing with the deep feelings
the cathedral service had created in him, remembering the words of Balthazar, "we must follow
the star," he slowly and reluctantly walked on.

[Sidenote: The Just Shall Live by Faith]

In the meantime Melchoir also had followed faithfully the path along which the star seemed
to lead. Through forests in which he almost lost his way, across rivers difficult and dangerous
to ford--still he followed on. At length Melchoir's star seemed to tarry over the spire of
a gothic church, into which the people were going in throngs. Waiting a moment, to be sure
that the star was actually standing still, Melchoir went in with the rest. In this place was
no altar, such as Gaspard saw; no image on the cross; no white-robed priests; no swinging censers.
But, as Melchoir entered he heard strains from the organ, and a chorus of voices was singing
an anthem beginning with the words, "Te Deum Laudamus." And when the anthem came to a close,
a man clothed in a black robe, such as scholars were wont to wear, rose in his place upon a
platform elevated above the people, and began to speak to them about the kingdom of Christ.
Melchoir listened in eager expectancy. [Sidenote: The Truth Shall Make You Free] "The kingdom
of the Christ," the preacher said, "is the kingdom of the truth, and the truth is to be continued
and kept alive by the strength of man's belief. Those things which have been handed down by
holy men and sacred oracles since Christ was here upon the earth, are the truths by which we
live. How can Christ live except He live in our beliefs? Why did the Father of all intrust
us with our reasons, unless it were that we should make them the instruments of our faith and
our salvation? Let us therefore stand in our places, while we recite together the articles
of our holy faith."

These and many such words did the scholar-preacher declare. And as he sat there with the people,
Melchoir felt the weight of the solemn and earnest words, and he said: "So at last have I come
to the end of my search. The kingdom of Christ is in the mind of man. His kingdom is the kingdom
of the truth."

[Sidenote: More Light Shall Break Forth]

Then he followed the throngs as they went forth from the church; but the star which had tarried
over the lofty spire was now before him, and the opal light wavered and trembled, as if beckoning
him on; and the words of the preacher, "we must believe," seemed to blend with the words of
Balthazar, "we must follow the star." So, reluctantly and slowly he followed on.

[Sidenote: Thy Sacramental Liturgies]

But Balthazar--whither went he, following the star? Over many a rugged way, through many a
tangled thicket, through valleys and over hills. His star tarried over no cathedrals; it lingered
over no Gothic spires. It seemed capricious and restless and tireless. At times it seemed intent
on coming to a pause over the head of some human being, but perhaps it was because these human
beings themselves were so restless and so busy that the star could not accomplish its intent.
For Balthazar saw these men and women hurrying hither and thither on errands of mercy, or deeds
of justice; he saw them ferreting out great wrongs, laying heavy blows on the backs of men
who oppressed and defrauded their fellow men.

At length Balthazar seemed to understand the movements of the star, and, drawing nearer, he
would seem to hear these men repeating cheering and encouraging words to one another. "Pure
religion and undefiled," he heard one exclaiming, "is to visit the fatherless and widows in
their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." And another echoed, "Inasmuch
as we do it to the least of these, we do it unto Christ."

[Sidenote: The Joy of Doing Good]

"Ah! thought Balthazar as he listened, I see the meaning of it now; I am coming to the end
of my search. The kingdom of Christ--I have found it. It is in the deeds of men; it is in the
conscience and the serving will. Devotion to right, this is the law of the kingdom of Christ."

Then Balthazar turned to go in search of his comrades again; but behold! the opal star was
trembling, as if beckoning him on. So, still doubting if he had reached the end of his search,
he followed the star.

[Sidenote: The Paths Converge]

Thus Gaspard, Melchoir and Balthazar, each following the star, at last approached each other.
The star of each seemed to melt and blend into the star of the others, and the opal light stood
at last in the center of the group. Gaspard exclaimed: "I have found that which we all were
seeking. The kingdom of Christ is in the imagination; Christ lives in what man feels."

"Nay," said Melchoir, "I have followed the star, and I have found what we sought. The kingdom
of Christ is in the reason of man. Christ lives in what man believes."

"But," cried Balthazar, "my star has led me to a different end. The kingdom of Christ is in
the will of man. Christ lives in what man does."

"The truth," once more exclaimed Melchoir, "is the law of the kingdom."

"Not truth," declared Balthazar, "but justice, righteousness, goodness and purity--these are
its laws and its marks."

"Nay, comrades beloved, hearken to me," answered Gaspard, "it is the miracle of the divine
presence. It is God among men, realized in the holy mass. I beheld it all in yonder cathedral."

But lo! once more the star began to tremble and to change its place.

"Let us follow the star!" Balthazar whispered. "We will follow it," echoed the other two.

[Sidenote: Once More the Quest]

Then the star led them on, and they followed together until they came at length to the doorway
of a little cottage; and within the cottage they saw a woman bending over a cradle, and in
the cradle a little child lay sleeping. She was a peasant woman; her clothing was not rich;
the furnishing of the cottage was humble and scanty. The cradle itself was rude, as if put
together by hands unskilful in tasks like that. But when the mother looked at her babe a sweet
smile played about her lips, and a light was in her eyes. Then all suddenly the three men remembered
another scene long before, when they were bearers of gold and frankincense and myrrh to another
babe.

[Sidenote: He That Loveth Knoweth God]

And while they stood and wondered by the door, there came a strong and sturdy peasant, broad-shouldered,
roughly clad, his face browned in the sun, his hands hardened with toil. He came and stood
beside the woman, and they bent together over the cradle of the sleeping child, and the man
drew the woman tenderly toward him and kissed her brow.

And still the three men lingered; for behold! the star stood still above the child, and they
dared not speak. But the heart of Gaspard was saying in silence, "There is something greater
than the repeated miracle of the mass."

And Melchoir was thinking, "There is something mightier even than the mind; something superior
to naked truth."

[Sidenote: For God Is Love]

And Balthazar was confessing to himself that he had found something more potent even than the
righteous deed. For here they all beheld how life was made sweet and blessed and holy by the
power of love; and by love for a little child, in whom was all weakness and helplessness, whose
only voice was a cry, but who was all strong and mighty with the power of God, because he could
transform roughness into tenderness, and selfishness into loving care, and poverty itself into
gifts of gold and fragrant myrrh.

"Truly, my comrades," Balthazar said, "love is the greatest of all."

"And now I understand," said Gaspard, "how the weak things of the world can confound the mighty."

"And I," added Melchoir, "see what it means for God to come to earth in the form of a little
child."

And so they turned away, and the radiance of the star was round about them, and they were saying
to each other: "Our search at last is ended."

[*] Reprinted with the permission of "The Sketching Club," Indianapolis, Ind.

LITTLE GRETCHEN AND THE WOODEN SHOE[*]

By Elizabeth Harrison

Once upon a time, a long time ago, far away across the great ocean, in a country called Germany,
there could be seen a small log hut on the edge of a great forest, whose fir trees extended
for miles and miles to the north. This little house, made of heavy hewn logs, had but one room
in it. A rough pine door gave entrance to this room, and a small square window admitted the
light. At the back of the house was built an old-fashioned stone chimney, out of which in winter
curled a thin, blue smoke, showing that there was not very much fire within.

Small as the house was, it was large enough for two people who lived in it. I want to tell
you a story today about these two people. One was an old gray-haired woman, so old that the
little children of the village, nearly half a mile away, often wondered whether she had come
into the world with the huge mountains and the giant fir trees, which stood like giants back
of her small hut. Her face was wrinkled all over with deep lines, which, if the children could
only have read aright, would have told them of many years of cheerful, happy, self-sacrifice;
of loving, anxious, watching beside sick-beds; of quiet endurance of pain, of many a day of
hunger and cold, and of a thousand deeds of unselfish love for other people; but, of course,
they could not read this strange handwriting. They only knew that she was old and wrinkled,
and that she stooped as she walked. None of them seemed to fear her, for her smile was always
cheerful, and she had a kindly word for each of them if they chanced to meet her on her way
to and from the village. With this old, old woman lived a very little girl. So bright and happy
was she that the travellers who passed by the lonesome little house on the edge of the forest
often thought of a sunbeam as they saw her. These two people were known in the village as Granny
Goodyear and Little Gretchen.

The winter had come and the frost had snapped off many of the smaller branches of the pine
trees in the forest. Gretchen and her granny were up by daybreak each morning. After their
simple breakfast of oatmeal, Gretchen would run to the little closet and fetch Granny's old
woolen shawl, which seemed almost as old as Granny herself. Gretchen always claimed the right
to put the shawl over Granny's head, even though she had to climb onto the wooden bench to
do it. After carefully pinning it under Granny's chin, she gave her a good-bye kiss, and Granny
started out for her morning's work in the forest. This work was nothing more nor less than
the gathering up of the twigs and branches which the autumn winds and winter frosts had thrown
upon the ground. These were carefully gathered into a large bundle which Granny tied together
with a strong linen band. She then managed to lift the bundle to her shoulder and trudged off
to the village with it. Here she sold the fagots for kindling wood to the people of the village.
Sometimes she would get only a few pence each day, and sometimes a dozen or more, but on this
money little Gretchen and she managed to live; they had their home, and the forest kindly furnished
the wood for the fire which kept them warm in winter.

In the summer time Granny had a little garden at the back of the house, where she raised, with
little Gretchen's help, a few potatoes and turnips and onions. These she carefully stored away
for winter use. To this meagre supply, the pennies, gained by selling the twigs from the forest,
added the oatmeal for Gretchen and a little black coffee for Granny. Meat was a thing they
never thought of having. It cost too much money. Still, Granny and Gretchen were very happy,
because they loved each other dearly. Sometimes Gretchen would be left alone all day long in
the hut, because Granny would have some work to do in the village after selling her bundle
of sticks and twigs. It was during these long days that little Gretchen had taught herself
to sing the song which the wind sang to the pine branches. In the summer time she learned the
chirp and twitter of the birds, until her voice might almost be mistaken for a bird's voice,
she learned to dance as the swaying shadows did, and even to talk to the stars which shone
through the little square window when Granny came home late or too tired to talk.

Sometimes, when the weather was fine, or her Granny had an extra bundle of knitted stockings
to take to the village, she would let little Gretchen go along with her. It chanced that one
of these trips to the town came just the week before Christmas, and Gretchen's eyes were delighted
by the sight of the lovely Christmas trees which stood in the window of the village store.
It seemed to her that she would never tire of looking at the knit dolls, the woolly lambs,
the little wooden shops with their queer, painted men and women in them, and all the other
fine things. She had never owned a plaything in her whole life; therefore, toys which you and
I would not think much of seemed to her very beautiful.

That night, after their supper of baked potatoes was over, and little Gretchen had cleared
away the dishes and swept up the hearth, because Granny dear was so tired, she brought her
own little wooden stool and placed it very near Granny's feet and sat down upon it, folding
her hands on her lap. Granny knew that this meant that she wanted to be told about something,
so she smilingly laid away the large Bible which she had been reading, and took up her knitting,
which was as much as to say: "Well, Gretchen, dear, Granny is ready to listen."

"Granny," said Gretchen slowly, "It's almost Christmas time, isn't it?"

"Yes, dearie," said Granny, "only five days more now," and then she sighed, but little Gretchen
was so happy that she did not notice Granny's sigh.

"What do you think, Granny, I'll get this Christmas?" said she, looking up eagerly into Granny's
face.

"Ah, child, child," said Granny, shaking her head, "you'll have no Christmas this year. We
are too poor for that."

"Oh, but Granny," interrupted little Gretchen, "think of all the beautiful toys we saw in the
village today. Surely Santa Claus has sent enough for every little child."

"Ah, dearie, those toys are for people who can pay for them, and we have no money to spend
for Christmas toys."

"Well, Granny," said Gretchen, "perhaps some of the little children who live in the great house
on the hill at the other end of the village, will be willing to share some of their toys with
me. They will be glad to give some to a little girl who has none."

"Dear child, dear child," said Granny, leaning forward and stroking the soft, shiny hair of
the little girl, "your heart is full of love. You would be glad to bring a Christmas to every
child; but their heads are so full of what they are going to get that they forget all about
anybody else but themselves." Then she sighed and shook her head.

"Well, Granny," said Gretchen, her bright, happy tone of voice growing a little less joyous,
"perhaps the dear Santa Claus will show some of the village children how to make presents that
do not cost money, and some of them may surprise me Christmas morning with a present. And,
Granny, dear," added she, springing up from her low stool, "can't I gather some of the pine
branches and take them to the old sick man who lives in the house by the mill, so that he can
have the sweet smell of our forest in his room all Christmas day?"

"Yes, dearie," said Granny, "you may do what you can to make the Christmas bright and happy,
but you must not expect any present yourself."

"Oh, but, Granny," said little Gretchen, her face brightening, "you forgot all about the shining
Christmas angels, who came down to earth and sang their wonderful song the night the beautiful
Christ-Child was born! They are so loving and good that they will not forget any little child.
I shall ask my dear stars tonight to tell them of us. You know," she added, with a look of
relief, "the stars are so very high that they must know the angels quite well as they come
and go with their messages from the loving God."

Granny sighed as she half whispered. "Poor child, poor child!" but Gretchen threw her arm around
Granny's neck and gave her a hearty kiss, saying as she did so: "Oh, Granny, Granny, you don't
talk to the stars often enough, else you would not be sad at Christmas time." Then she danced
all around the room, whirling her little skirts about her to show Granny how the wind had made
the snow dance that day. She looked so droll and funny that Granny forgot her cares and worries
and laughed with little Gretchen over her new snow dance. The days passed on and the morning
before Christmas Eve came. Gretchen having tidied up the little room--for Granny had taught
her to be a careful little housewife--was off to the forest, singing a birdlike song, almost
as happy and free as the birds themselves. She was very busy that day preparing a surprise
for Granny. First, however, she gathered the most beautiful of the fir branches within her
reach to take the next morning to the old sick man who lived by the mill.

The day was all too short for the happy little girl. When Granny came trudging wearily home
that night, she found the frame of the doorway covered with green pine branches.

"It is to welcome you, Granny! It is to welcome you!" cried Gretchen; "our dear old home wanted
to give you a Christmas welcome. Don't you see, the branches of the evergreen make it look
as if it were smiling all over, and it is trying to say, 'A happy Christmas to you Granny'."

Granny laughed and kissed the little girl, as they opened the door and went in together. Here
was a new surprise for Granny. The four posts of the wooden bed, which stood in one corner
of the room, had been trimmed by the busy little fingers, with smaller and more flexible branches
of the pine trees. A small bouquet of red mountain ash berries stood at each side of the fireplace,
and these, together with the trimmed posts of the bed, gave the plain old room quite a festive
look. Gretchen laughed and clapped her hands and danced about until the house seemed full of
music to poor, tired Granny, whose heart had been sad as she turned toward their home that
night, thinking of the disappointment that must come to loving little Gretchen the next morning.

After supper was over little Gretchen drew her stool up to Granny's side, and laying her soft,
little hands on Granny's knee asked to be told once again the story of the coming of the Christ-Child;
how the night that he was born the beautiful angels had sung their wonderful song, and how
the whole sky had become bright with a strange and glorious light, never seen by the people
of earth before. Gretchen had heard the story many, many times before, but she never grew tired
of it, and now that Christmas Eve had come again, the happy little child wanted to hear it
once more.

When Granny had finished telling it the two sat quiet and silent for a little while thinking
it over; then Granny rose and said that it was time for her to go to bed. She slowly took off
her heavy wooden shoes, such as are worn in that country, and placed them beside the hearth.
Gretchen looked thoughtfully at them for a minute or two, and then she said, "Granny, don't
you think that somebody in all this wide world will think of us tonight?"

"Nay, Gretchen, I do not think any one will."

"Well, then, Granny," said Gretchen, "the Christmas angels will, I know; so I am going to take
one of your wooden shoes and put it on the windowsill outside, so that they may see it as they
pass by. I am sure the stars will tell the Christmas angels where the shoe is."

"Ah, you foolish, foolish child," said Granny, "you are only getting ready for a disappointment.
Tomorrow morning there will be nothing whatever in the shoe. I can tell you that now."

But little Gretchen would not listen. She only shook her head and cried out: "Ah, Granny, you
do not talk enough to the stars." With this she seized the shoe, and opening the door, hurried
out to place it on the window sill. It was very dark without and something soft and cold seemed
to gently kiss her hair and face. Gretchen knew by this that it was snowing, and she looked
up to the sky, anxious to see if the stars were in sight, but a strong wind was tumbling the
dark, heavy snow-clouds about and had shut away all else.

"Never mind," said Gretchen softly to herself, "the stars are up there, even if I can't see
them, and the Christmas angels do not mind snow storms."

Just then a rough wind went sweeping by the little girl, whispering something to her which
she could not understand, and then it made a sudden rush up to the snow clouds and parted them,
so that the deep mysterious sky appeared beyond, and shining down out of the midst of it was
Gretchen's favorite star.

