BLACKWOOD'S
  EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

  No. CCCLI.    JANUARY, 1845.    Vol. LVII.

  CONTENTS

  Homer, Dante, and Michael Angelo,                     1

  Settled at Last, Or, Red River Recollections,        18

  Borodino. An Ode,                                    30

  A Ramble in Montenegro,                              33

  Æsthetics of Dress. A Case of Hats,                  51

  The Three Guardsmen,                                 59

  Marston; Or the Memoirs of a Statesman. Part XV.,    75

  Janus: From the Fasti of Ovid,                       94

  To a Blind Girl,                                     98

  The Forced Sale,                                     99

  Vanities in Verse.

  BLACKWOOD'S
  EDINBURGH
  MAGAZINE.

  VOL. LVII.

  JANUARY-JUNE, 1845.

  WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, EDINBURGH,

  AND

  22, PALL-MALL, LONDON.

  1845.

HOMER, DANTE, AND MICHAEL ANGELO.

There is something inexpressibly striking, it may almost be said awful, in the fame of HOMER.
Three thousand years have elapsed since the bard of Chios began to pour forth his strains;
and their reputation, so far from declining, is on the increase. Successive nations are employed
in celebrating his works; generation after generation of men are fascinated by his imagination.
Discrepancies of race, of character, of institutions, of religion, of age, of the world, are
forgotten in the common worship of his genius. In this universal tribute of gratitude, modern
Europe vies with remote antiquity, the light Frenchman with the volatile Greek, the impassioned
Italian with the enthusiastic German, the sturdy Englishman with the unconquerable Roman, the
aspiring Russian with the proud American. Seven cities, in ancient times, competed for the
honour of having given him birth, but seventy nations have since been moulded by his productions.
He gave a mythology to the ancients; he has given the fine arts to the modern world. Jupiter,
Saturn, Mars, Juno, are still household words in every tongue; Vulcan is yet the god of fire,
Neptune of the ocean, Venus of love. When Michael Angelo and Canova strove to embody their
conceptions of heroism or beauty, they portrayed the heroes of the Iliad. Flaxman's genius
was elevated to the highest point in embodying its events. Epic poets, in subsequent times,
have done little more than imitate his machinery, copy his characters, adopt his similes, and,
in a few instances, improve upon his descriptions. Painting and statuary, for two thousand
years, have been employed in striving to portray, by the pencil or the chisel, his yet breathing
conceptions. Language and thought itself have been moulded by the influence of his poetry.
Images of wrath are still taken from Achilles, of pride from Agamemnon, of astuteness from
Ulysses, of patriotism from Hector, of tenderness from Andromache, of age from Nestor. The
galleys of Rome were, the line-of-battle ships of France and England still are, called after
his heroes. The Agamemnon long bore the flag of Nelson; the Ajax perished by the flames within
sight of the tomb of the Telamonian hero, on the shores of the Hellespont; the Achilles was
blown up at the battle of Trafalgar. Alexander the Great ran round the tomb of Achilles before
undertaking the conquest of Asia. It was the boast of Napoleon that his mother reclined on
tapestry representing the heroes of the Iliad, when he was brought into the world. The greatest
poets of ancient and modern times have spent their lives in the study of his genius or the
imitation of his works. Withdraw from subsequent poetry the images, mythology, and characters
of the Iliad, and what would remain? Petrarch spent his best years in restoring his verses.
Tasso portrayed the siege of Jerusalem, and the shock of Europe and Asia, almost exactly as
Homer had done the contest of the same forces, on the same shores, two thousand five hundred
years before. Milton's old age, when blind and poor, was solaced by hearing the verses recited
of the poet, to whose conceptions his own mighty spirit had been so much indebted; and Pope
deemed himself fortunate in devoting his life to the translation of the Iliad.

No writer in modern times has equalled the wide-spread fame of the Grecian bard; but it may
be doubted whether, in the realms of thought, and in sway over the reflecting world, the influence
of DANTE has not been almost as considerable. Little more than five hundred years, indeed,
have elapsed--not a sixth of the thirty centuries which have tested the strength of the Grecian
patriarch--since the immortal Florentine poured forth his divine conceptions; but yet there
is scarcely a writer of eminence since that time, in works even bordering on imagination, in
which traces of his genius are not to be found. The Inferno has penetrated the world. If images
of horror are sought after, it is to his works that all subsequent ages have turned; if those
of love and divine felicity are desired, all turn to the Paradise and the Spirit of Beatrice.
When the historians of the French Revolution wished to convey an idea of the utmost agonies
they were called on to portray, they contented themselves with saying it equalled all that
the imagination of Dante had conceived of the terrible. Sir Joshua Reynolds has exerted his
highest genius in depicting the frightful scene described by him, when Ugolino perished of
hunger in the tower of Pisa. Alfieri, Metastasio, Corneille, Lope de Vega, and all the great
masters of the tragic muse, have sought in his works the germs of their finest conceptions.
The first of these tragedians marked two-thirds of the Inferno and Paradiso as worthy of being
committed to memory. Modern novelists have found in his prolific mind the storehouse from which
they have drawn their noblest imagery, the chord by which to strike the profoundest feelings
of the human heart. Eighty editions of his poems have been published in Europe within the last
half century; and the public admiration, so far from being satiated, is augmenting. Every scholar
knows how largely Milton was indebted to his poems for many of his most powerful images. Byron
inherited, though often at second hand, his mantle, in many of his most moving conceptions.
Schiller has embodied them in a noble historic mirror; and the dreams of Goethe reveal the
secret influence of the terrible imagination which portrayed the deep remorse and hopeless
agonies of Malebolge.

MICHAEL ANGELO has exercised an influence on modern art little, if at all, inferior to that
produced on the realms of thought by Homer and Dante. The father of Italian painting, the author
of the frescoes on the Sistine Chapel, he was, at the same time, the restorer of ancient sculpture,
and the intrepid architect who placed the Pantheon in the air. Raphael confessed, that he owed
to the contemplation of his works his most elevated conceptions of their divine art. Sculpture,
under his original hand, started from the slumber of a thousand years, in all the freshness
of youthful vigour; architecture, in subsequent times, has sought in vain to equal, and can
never hope to surpass, his immortal monument in the matchless dome of St Peters. He found painting
in its infancy--he left it arrived at absolute perfection. He first demonstrated of what that
noble art is capable. In the Last Judgment he revealed its wonderful powers, exhibiting, as
it were, at one view, the whole circles of Dante's Inferno--portraying with terrible fidelity
the agonies of the wicked, when the last trumpet shall tear the veil from their faces, and
exhibit in undisguised truth that most fearful of spectacles--a naked human heart. Casting
aside, perhaps with undue contempt, the adventitious aids derived from finishing, colouring,
and execution, he threw the whole force of his genius into the design, the expression of the
features, the drawing of the figures. There never was such a delineator of bone and muscle
as Michael Angelo. His frescoes stand out in bold relief from the walls of the Vatican, like
the sculptures of Phidias from the pediment of the Parthenon. He was the founder of the school
of painting both at Rome and Florence--that great school which, disdaining the representation
of still life, and all the subordinate appliances of the art, devoted itself to the representation
of the grand and the beautiful; to the expression of passion in all its vehemence--of emotion
in all its intensity. His incomparable delineation of bones and muscles was but a means to
an end; it was the human heart, the throes of human passion, that his master-hand laid bare.
Raphael congratulated himself, and thanked God that he had given him life in the same age with
that painter; and Sir Joshua Reynolds, in his last address to the Academy, "reflected, not
without vanity, that his Discourses bore testimony to his admiration of that truly divine man,
and desired that the last words he pronounced in that academy, and from that chair, might be
the name of Michael Angelo."[1]

The fame of these illustrious men has long been placed beyond the reach of cavil. Criticism
cannot reach, envy cannot detract from, emulation cannot equal them. Great present celebrity,
indeed, is no guarantee for future and enduring fame; in many cases, it is the reverse, but
there is a wide difference between the judgment of the present and that of future ages. The
favour of the great, the passions of the multitude, the efforts of reviewers, the interest
of booksellers, a clique of authors, a coterie of ladies, accidental events, degrading propensities,
often enter largely into the composition of present reputation. But opinion is freed from all
these disturbing influences by the lapse of time. The grave is the greatest of all purifiers.
Literary jealousy, interested partiality, vulgar applause, exclusive favour, alike disappear
before the hand of death. We never can be sufficiently distrustful of present opinion, so largely
is it directed by passion or interest. But we may rely with confidence on the judgment of successive
generations on departed eminence; for it is detached from the chief cause of present aberration.
So various are the prejudices, so contradictory the partialities and predilections of men,
in different countries and ages of the world, that they never can concur through a course of
centuries in one opinion, if it is not founded in truth and justice. The vox populi is often
little more than the vox diaboli; but the voice of ages is the voice of God.

It is of more moment to consider in what the greatness of these illustrious men really consists--to
what it has probably been owing--and in what particulars they bear an analogy to each other.

They are all three distinguished by one peculiarity, which doubtless entered largely into their
transcendent merit--they wrote in the infancy of civilization. Homer, as all the world knows,
is the oldest profane author in existence. Dante flourished about the year 1300: he lived at
a time when the English barons lived in rooms strewed with rushes, and few of them could sign
their names. The long life of Michael Angelo, extending from 1474 to 1564, over ninety years,
if not passed in the infancy of civilization, was at least passed in the childhood of the arts:
before his time, painting was in its cradle. Cimabue had merely unfolded the first dawn of
beauty at Florence; and the stiff figures of Pietro Perugino, which may be traced in the first
works of his pupil Raphael, still attest the backward state of the arts at Rome. This peculiarity,
applicable alike to all these three great men, is very remarkable, and beyond all question
had a powerful influence, both in forming their peculiar character, and elevating them to the
astonishing greatness which they speedily attained.

It gave them--what Johnson has justly termed the first requisite to human greatness--self-confidence.
They were the first--at least the first known to themselves and their contemporaries--who adventured
on their several arts; and thus they proceeded fearlessly in their great career. They had neither
critics to fear, nor lords to flatter, nor former excellence to imitate. They portrayed with
the pencil, or in verse, what they severally felt, undisturbed by fear, unswayed by example,
unsolicitous about fame, unconscious of excellence. They did so for the first time. Thence
the freshness and originality, the vigour and truth, the simplicity and raciness by which they
are distinguished. Shakspeare owed much of his greatness to the same cause; and thence his
similarity, in many respects, to these great masters of his own or the sister arts. When Pope
asked Bentley what he thought of his translation of the Iliad, the scholar replied, "You have
written a pretty book, Mr Pope; but you must not call it Homer." Bentley was right. With all
its pomp of language and melody of versification, its richness of imagery and magnificence
of diction, Pope's Homer is widely different from the original. He could not avoid it. The
"awful simplicity of the Grecian bard, his artless grandeur and unaffected majesty," will be
sought for in vain in the translation; but if they had appeared there, it would have been unreadable
in that age. Michael Angelo, in his bold conceptions, energetic will, and rapid execution,
bears a close resemblance to the father of poetry. In both, the same faults, as we esteem them,
are conspicuous, arising from a too close imitation of nature, and a carelessness in rejecting
images or objects which are of an ordinary or homely description. Dante was incomparably more
learned than either: he followed Virgil in his descent to the infernal regions; and exhibits
an intimate acquaintance with ancient history, as well as that of the modern Italian states,
in the account of the characters he meets in that scene of torment. But in his own line he
was entirely original. Homer and Virgil had, in episodes of their poems, introduced a picture
of the infernal regions; but nothing on the plan of Dante's Inferno had before been thought
of in the world. With much of the machinery of the ancients, it bears the stamp of the spiritual
faith of modern times. It lays bare the heart in a way unknown even to Homer and Euripides.
It reveals the inmost man in a way which bespeaks the centuries of self-reflection in the cloister
which had preceded it. It is the basis of all the spiritual poetry of modern, as the Iliad
is of all the external imagery of ancient, times.

In this respect there is a most grievous impediment to genius in later, or, as we term them,
more civilized times, from which, in earlier ages, it is wholly exempt. Criticism, public opinion,
the dread of ridicule--then too often crush the strongest minds. The weight of former examples,
the influence of early habits, the halo of long-established reputation, force original genius
from the untrodden path of invention into the beaten one of imitation. Early talent feels itself
overawed by the colossus which all the world adores; it falls down and worships, instead of
conceiving. The dread of ridicule extinguishes originality in its birth. Immense is the incubus
thus laid upon the efforts of genius. It is the chief cause of the degradation of taste, the
artificial style, the want of original conception, by which the literature of old nations is
invariably distinguished. The early poet or painter who portrays what he feels or has seen,
with no anxiety but to do so powerfully and truly, is relieved of a load which crushes his
subsequent compeers to the earth. Mediocrity is ever envious of genius--ordinary capacity of
original thought. Such envy in early times is innocuous or does not exist, at least to the
extent which is felt as so baneful in subsequent periods. But in a refined and enlightened
age, its influence becomes incalculable. Whoever strikes out a new region of thought or composition,
whoever opens a fresh vein of imagery or excellence, is persecuted by the critics. He disturbs
settled ideas, endangers established reputations, brings forward rivals to dominant fame. That
is sufficient to render him the enemy of all the existing rulers in the world of taste. Even
Jeffrey seriously lamented, in one of his first reviews of Scott's poems, that he should have
identified himself with the unpicturesque and expiring images of feudality, which no effort
could render poetical. Racine's tragedies were received with such a storm of criticism as wellnigh
cost the sensitive author his life; and Rousseau was so rudely handled by contemporary writers
on his first appearance, that it confirmed him in his morbid hatred of civilization. The vigour
of these great men, indeed, overcame the obstacles created by contemporary envy; but how seldom,
especially in a refined age, can genius effect such a prodigy? how often is it crushed in the
outset of its career, or turned aside into the humble and unobtrusive path of imitation, to
shun the danger with which that of originality is beset!

Milton's Paradise Lost contains many more lines of poetic beauty than Homer's Iliad; and there
is nothing in the latter poem of equal length, which will bear any comparison with the exquisite
picture of the primeval innocence of our First Parents in his fourth book. Nevertheless, the
Iliad is a more interesting poem than the Paradise Lost; and has produced and will produce
a much more extensive impression on mankind. The reason is, that it is much fuller of event,
is more varied, is more filled with images familiar to all mankind, and is less lost in metaphysical
or philosophical abstractions. Homer, though the father of poets, was essentially dramatic;
he was an incomparable painter; and it is his dramatic scenes, the moving panorama of his pictures,
which fascinates the world. He often speaks to the heart, and is admirable in the delineation
of character; but he is so, not by conveying the inward feeling, but by painting with matchless
fidelity its external symptoms, or putting into the mouths of his characters the precise words
they would have used in similar circumstances in real life. Even his immortal parting of Hector
and Andromache is no exception to this remark; he paints the scene at the Scæan gate exactly
as it would have occurred in nature, and moves us as if we had seen the Trojan hero taking
off his helmet to assuage the terrors of his infant son, and heard the lamentations of his
mother at parting with her husband. But he does not lay bare the heart, with the terrible force
of Dante, by a line or a word. There is nothing in Homer which conveys so piercing an idea
of misery as the line in the Inferno, where the Florentine bard assigns the reason of the lamentations
of the spirits in Malebolge--

  "Questi non hanno speranza di morte."

"These have not the hope of death." There speaks the spiritual poet; he does not paint to the
eye, he does not even convey character by the words he makes then utter; he pierces by a single
expression, at once to the heart.

Milton strove to raise earth to heaven: Homer brought down heaven to earth. The latter attempt
was a much easier one than the former; it was more consonant to human frailty; and, therefore,
it has met with more success. The gods and goddesses in the Iliad are men and women, endowed
with human passions, affections, and desires, and distinguished only from sublunary beings
by superior power and the gift of immortality. We are interested in them as we are in the genii
or magicians of an eastern romance. There is a sort of aërial epic poem going on between earth
and heaven. They take sides in the terrestrial combat, and engage in the actual strife with
the heroes engaged in it. Mars and Venus were wounded by Diomede when combating in the Trojan
ranks; their blood, or rather the

  "Ichor which blest immortals shed,"

flowed profusely; they fled howling to the palaces of heaven. Enlightened by a spiritual faith,
fraught with sublime ideas of the divine nature and government, Milton was incomparably more
just in his descriptions of the Supreme Being, and more elevated in his picture of the angels
and arch-angels who carried on the strife in heaven; but he frequently falls into metaphysical
abstractions or theological controversies, which detract from the interest of his poem.

Despite Milton's own opinion, the concurring voice of all subsequent ages and countries has
assigned to the Paradise Regained a much lower place than to the Paradise Lost. The reason
is, that it is less dramatic--it has less incident and action. Great part of the poem is but
an abstract theological debate between our Saviour and Satan. The speeches he makes them utter
are admirable, the reasoning is close, the arguments cogent, the sentiments elevated in the
speakers, but dialectic too. In many of the speeches of the angel Raphael, and in the council
of heaven, in the Paradise Lost there is too much of that species of discussion for a poem
which is to interest the generality of men. Dryden says, that Satan is Milton's real hero;
and every reader of the Paradise Lost must have felt, that in the Prince of Darkness, and Adam
and Eve, the interest of the poem consists. The reason is, that the vices of the first, and
the weakness of the two last, bring them nearer than any other characters in the poem to the
standard of mortality; and we are so constituted, that we cannot take any great interest but
in persons who share in our failings.

Perhaps the greatest cause of the sustained interest of the Iliad is the continued and vehement
action which is maintained. The attention is seldom allowed to flag. Either in the council
of the gods, the assembly of the Grecian or Trojan chiefs, or the contest of the leaders on
the field of battle, an incessant interest is maintained. Great events are always on the wing:
the issue of the contest is perpetually hanging, often almost even, in the balance. It is the
art with which this is done, and a state of anxious suspense, like the crisis of a great battle
kept up, that the great art of the poet consists. It is done by making the whole dramatic--bringing
the characters forward constantly to speak for themselves, making the events succeed each other
with almost breathless rapidity, and balancing success alternately from one side to the other,
without letting it ever incline decisively to either. Tasso has adopted the same plan in his
Jerusalem Delivered, and the contests of the Christian knights and Saracen leaders with the
lance and the sword, closely resemble those of the Grecian and Trojan chiefs on the plain of
Troy. Ariosto has carried it still further. The exploits of his Paladins--their adventures
on earth, in air, and water; their loves, their sufferings, their victories, their dangers--keep
the reader in a continual state of suspense. It is this sustained and varied interest which
makes so many readers prefer the Orlando Furioso to the Jerusalem Delivered. But Ariosto has
pushed it too far. In the search of variety, he has lost sight of unity. His heroes are not
congregated round the banners of two rival potentates; there is no one object or interest in
his poem. No narrow plain, like that watered by the Scamander, is the theatre of their exploits.
Jupiter, from the summit of Gargarus, could not have beheld the contending armies. The most
ardent imagination, indeed, is satiated with his adventures, but the closest attention can
hardly follow their thread. Story after story is told, the exploits of knight after knight
are recounted, till the mind is fatigued, the memory perplexed, and all general interest in
the poem lost.

Milton has admirably preserved the unity of his poem; the grand and all-important object of
the fall of man could hardly admit of subordinate or rival interests. But the great defect
in the Paradise Lost, arising from that very unity, is want of variety. It is strung throughout
on too lofty a key; it does not come down sufficiently to the wants and cravings of mortality.
The mind is awe-struck by the description of Satan careering through the immensity of space,
of the battle of the angels, of the fall of Lucifer, of the suffering, and yet unsubdued spirit
of his fellow rebels, of the adamantine gates, and pitchy darkness, and burning lake of hell.
But after the first feeling of surprise and admiration is over, it is felt by all, that these
lofty contemplations are not interesting to mortals like ourselves. They are too much above
real life--too much out of the sphere of ordinary event and interest.

The fourth book is the real scene of interest in the Paradise Lost; it is its ravishing scenes
of primeval innocence and bliss which have given it immortality. We are never tired of recurring
to the bower of Eve, to her devotion to Adam, to the exquisite scenes of Paradise, its woods,
its waters, its flowers, its enchantments. We are so, because we feel that it paints the Elysium
to which all aspire, which all have for a brief period felt, but which none in this world can
durably enjoy.

No one can doubt that Homer was endowed with the true poetic spirit, and yet there is very
little of what we now call poetry in his writings. There is neither sentiment nor declamation--painting
nor reflection. He is neither descriptive nor didactic. With great powers for portraying nature,
as the exquisite choice of his epithets, and the occasional force of his similes prove, he
never makes any laboured attempt to delineate her features. He had the eye of a great painter;
but his pictorial talents are employed, almost unconsciously, in the fervour of narrating events,
or the animation of giving utterance to thoughts. He painted by an epithet or a line. Even
the celebrated description of the fires in the plain of Troy, likened to the moon in a serene
night, is contained in seven lines. His rosy-fingered morn--cloud-compelling Jupiter--Neptune,
stiller of the waves--Aurora rising from her crocus bed--Night drawing her veil over the heavens--the
black keel careering through the lashing waves--the shout of the far-sounding sea--and the
like, from which subsequent poets and dramatists have borrowed so largely, are all brief allusions,
or epithets, which evidently did not form the main object of his strains. He was a close observer
of nature--its lights, its shades, its storms and calms, its animals, their migrations, their
cries and habits; but he never suspends his narrative to describe them. We shall look in vain
in the Iliad, and even the Odyssey, for the lengthened pictures of scenery which are so frequent
in Virgil and Tasso, and appear in such rich profusion in Milton. He describes storms only
as objects of terror, not to paint them to the eye. Such things are to be found in the book
of Job and in the Psalms, but with the same brevity and magical force of emphatic expression.
There never was a greater painter of nature than Homer; there never was a man who aimed less
at being so.

The portraying of character and event was the great and evident object of the Grecian bard;
and there his powers may almost be pronounced unrivalled. He never tells you, unless it is
sometimes to be inferred on an epithet, what the man's character that he introduces is. He
trusts to the character to delineate itself. He lets us get acquainted with his heroes, as
we do with persons around us, by hearing them speak, and seeing them act. In preserving character,
in this dramatic way of representing it, he is unrivalled. He does not tell you that Nestor
had the garrulity of age, and loved to recur to the events of his youth; but he never makes
him open his mouth without descanting on the adventures of his early years, and the degenerate
race of mortals who have succeeded the paladins of former days. He does not tell us that Achilles
was wrathful and impetuous; but every time he speaks, the anger of the son of Peleus comes
boiling over his lips. He does not describe Agamemnon as overbearing and haughty; but the pride
of the king of men is continually appearing in his words and actions, and it is the evident
moral of the Iliad to represent its pernicious effects on the affairs of the Helenic confederacy.
Ulysses never utters a word in which the cautious and prudent counsellor, sagacious in design
but prompt in execution, wary in the council but decided in the field, far-seeing but yet persevering,
is not apparent. Diomede never falters; alike in the field and the council he is indomitable.
When Hector was careering in his chariot round their fortifications, and the king of men counselled
retreat, he declared he would remain, were it only with Sthenelus and his friends. So completely
marked, so well defined are his characters, though they were all rapacious chiefs at first
sight, little differing from each other, that it has been observed with truth, that one well
acquainted with the Iliad could tell, upon hearing one of the speeches read out without a name,
who was the chief who uttered it.

The two authors, since his time, who have most nearly approached him in this respect, are Shakespeare
and Scott. Both seem to have received the pencil which paints the human heart from nature herself.
Both had a keen and searching eye for character in all grades and walks of life; and what is
a general accompaniment of such a disposition, a strong sense of the ridiculous. Both seized
the salient points in mental disposition, and perceived at a glance, as it were, the ruling
propensity. Both impressed this character so strongly on their minds, that they threw themselves,
as it were, into the very souls of the persons whom they delineated, and made them speak and
act like nature herself. It is this extraordinary faculty of identifying themselves with their
characters, and bringing out of their mouth the very words which, in real life, would have
come, which constitutes the chief and permanent attraction of these wonderful masters of the
human heart. Cervantes had it in an equal degree; and thence it is that Homer, Shakspeare,
Cervantes, and Scott, have made so great, and, to all appearance, durable impression on mankind.
The human heart is, at bottom, every where the same. There is infinite diversity in the dress
he wears, but the naked human figure of one country scarcely differs from another. The writers
who have succeeded in reaching this deep substratum, this far-hidden but common source of human
action, are understood and admired over all the world. It is the same on the banks of the Simoïs
as on those of the Avon--on the Sierra Morena as the Scottish hills. They are understood alike
in Europe as Asia--in antiquity as modern times; one unanimous burst of admiration salutes
them from the North Cape to Cape Horn--from the age of Pisistratus to that of Napoleon.

Strange as it may appear to superficial observers, Cervantes bears a close analogy, in many
particulars, to Homer. Circumstances, and an inherent turn for humour, made him throw his genius
into an exquisite ridicule of the manners of chivalry; but the author of Don Quixote had in
him the spirit of a great epic poet. His lesser pieces prove it; unequivocal traces of it are
to be found in the adventures of the Knight of La Mancha himself. The elevation of mind which,
amidst all his aberrations, appears in that erratic character; the incomparable traits of nature
with which the work abounds; the faculty of describing events in the most striking way; of
painting scenes in a few words; of delineating characters with graphic fidelity, and keeping
them up with perfect consistency, which are so conspicuous in Don Quixote, are so many of the
most essential qualities of an epic poet. Nor was the ardour of imagination, the romantic disposition,
the brilliancy of fancy, the lofty aspirations, the tender heart, which form the more elevated
and not less essential part of such a character, wanting in the Spanish novelist.

Sir Walter Scott more nearly resembles Homer than any poet who has sung since the siege of
Troy. Not that he has produced any poem which will for a moment bear a comparison with the
Iliad--fine as the Lady of the Lake and Marmion are, it would be the height of national partiality
to make any such comparison. But, nevertheless, Sir Walter's mind is of the same dimensions
as that of Homer. We see in him the same combination of natural sagacity with acquired information;
of pictorial eye with dramatic effect; of observation of character with reflection and feeling;
of graphic power with poetic fervour; of ardour of imagination with rectitude of principle;
of warlike enthusiasm with pacific tenderness, which have rendered the Grecian bard immortal.
It is in his novels, however, more than his poetry, that this resemblance appears; the author
of Waverley more nearly approaches the blind bard than the author of the Lay. His romances
in verse contain some passages which are sublime, many which are beautiful, some pathetic.
They are all interesting, and written in the same easy, careless style, interspersed with the
most homely and grotesque expressions, which is so well known to all the readers of the Iliad.
The battle in Marmion is beyond all question, as Jeffrey long ago remarked, the most Homeric
strife which has been sung since the days of Homer. But these passages are few and far between;
his poems are filled with numerous and long interludes, written with little art, and apparently
no other object but to fill up the pages or eke out the story. It is in prose that the robust
strength, the powerful arm, the profound knowledge of the heart, appear; and it is there, accordingly,
that he approaches at times so closely to Homer. If we could conceive a poem, in which the
storming of Front-de-Boeuf's castle in Ivanhoe--the death of Fergus in Waverley--the storm
on the coast, and death scene in the fisher's hut, in the Antiquary--the devoted love in the
Bride of Lammermoor--the fervour of the Covenanters in Old Mortality, and the combats of Richard
and Saladin in the Talisman, were united together, and intermingled with the incomparable characters,
descriptions, and incidents with which these novels abound, they would form an epic poem.

