"Hear him!" said he, "by the blessed heart! and you wept for a stinking dog!  Sorrow be his
who ever again hold you in account!  Why there is no man in this land so rich, of whom if your
father asked ten, or fifteen, or twenty, he would not give them only too willingly, and be
only too glad.  Nay, 'tis I should weep and make sorrow."

"And wherefore you, brother?"

"Sir, I will tell you.  I was hireling to a rich farmer, and drove his plough--four oxen there
were.  Three days since a great misfortune befell me.  I lost the best of my oxen, Roget, the
best of my team; and I have been in search of it ever since.  Worldly goods have I none worth
ought but what you see on the body of me.  I have a mother, poor woman, who had nothing worth
ought save one poor mattress, and this they have dragged from under her back, so that she lies
on the bare straw; and for her I am troubled a deal more than for myself.  For wealth comes
and goes; if I have lost now I shall gain another time, and I shall pay for my ox when I can;
nor will I ever weep for an ox.  And you wept for a dog of the dunghill!  Sorrow be his who
ever again hold you in account!"

"Certes, you are of good comfort, fair brother!  Bless you for it!  And what was thine ox worth?"

"Sir, it is twenty sous they ask me for it; I cannot abate a single farthing."

"Here," said Aucassin, "take these twenty which I have in my purse, and pay for thine ox!"

"Sir," said he, "Gramercy!  And may God grant you to find that which you seek!"

He took leave of him; and Aucassin rode on.  The night was fine and still; and he went on till
he came to the place where the seven roads divide, and there before him he saw the bower which
Nicolette had made, bedecked within and without and over and in front with flowers, and so
pretty that prettier could not be.  When Aucassin perceived it, he drew rein all in a moment;
and the light of the moon smote within it.

"Ah, Heaven!" said Aucassin, "here has Nicolette been, my sweet friend; and this did she make
with her beautiful hands!  For the sweetness of her, and for her love, I will now alight here,
and rest me there this night through."

He put his foot out of the stirrup to alight.  His horse was big and high; and he was thinking
so much on Nicolette, his most sweet friend, that he fell on a stone so hard that his shoulder
flew out of place.  He felt that he was badly hurt; but he bestirred him the best he could,
and tied his horse up with his other hand to a thorn; and he turned over on his side, so that
he got into the bower on his back.  And he looked through a chink in the bower, and saw the
stars in the sky; and he saw one there brighter than the rest, and he began to say:

Here they sing. God, I trow, wants her in Heaven To become the lamp of even.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . {57}

Whatsoe'er the fall might be,
Would I were aloft with thee!
Straitly I would kiss thee there.
Though a monarch's son I were,
Yet would you befit me fair,
   Sister, sweet friend!"

Here they speak and tell the story.

When Nicolette heard Aucassin she came to him, for she was not far off. She came into the bower,
and threw her arms round his neck, and kissed and caressed him.

"Fair sweet friend, well be you met!"

"And you, fair sweet friend, be you the well met!"

They kissed and caressed each other, and their joy was beautiful.

"Ah, sweet friend!" said Aucassin, "I was but now sore hurt in my shoulder; and now I feel
neither hurt nor pain since I have you!"

She felt about, and found that he had his shoulder out of place.  She plied it so with her
white hands, and achieved (as God willed, who loveth lovers) that it came again into place.
And then she took flowers and fresh grass and green leaves, and bound them on with the lappet
of her smock, and he was quite healed.

"Aucassin," said she, "fair sweet friend, take counsel what you will do! If your father makes
them search this forest to-morrow, and they find me--whatever may become of you, they will
kill me!"

"Certes, fair sweet friend, I should be much grieved at that!  But, an I be able, they shall
never have hold of you!"

He mounted on his horse, and took his love in front of him, kissing and caressing her; and
they set out into the open fields.

Here they sing.

Aucassin, the boon, the blond, High-born youth and lover fond, Rode from out the deep forest;
In his arms his love he pressed, 'Fore him on the saddle-bow; Kisses her on eyes and brow,
On her mouth and on her chin. Then to him did she begin:

"Aucassin, fair lover sweet, To what land are we to fleet?"

"Sweet my sweetheart, what know I? Nought to me 'tis where we fly, In greenwood or utter way,
So I am with you alway!"

So they pass by dale and down,
By the burgh and by the town,
At daybreak the sea did reach,
And alighted on the beach
   'Longside the strand.

Here they speak and tell the story.

Aucassin had alighted, he and his love together, as you have harkened and heard.  He held his
horse by the bridle and his love by the hand, and they began to go along the shore; and they
went on till Aucassin descried some merchants who were in a ship sailing near the shore.  He
beckoned to them and they came to him; and he dealt with them so that they took him into their
ship.  And when they were on the high sea a storm arose, great and wonderful, which carried
them from land to land, till they arrived at a foreign land, and entered the port of the castle
of Torelore.  Then they asked what land it was; and they told them that it was the land of
the king of Torelore.  Then he asked, Who was he, and was there war?  And they told him:

"Yes, great war."

He took leave of the merchants, and they commended him to God.  He mounted his horse, with
his sword girt, and his love before him, and went on till he came to the castle.  He asked
where the king was, and they told him that he lay in child-bed.

"And where then is his wife?"

And they told him that she was with the army, and had taken thither all the folk of the land.
And when Aucassin heard it, he thought it a very strange thing; and he came to the palace,
and alighted, he and his love together.  And she held his horse, and he went up to the palace,
with his sword girt; and went on till he came to the room where the king lay a- bed.

Here they sing.

Aucassin the room ent'red,
He the courteous, the high-bred,
And went straight up to the bed,
On the which the king was laid.
Right in front of him he stayed,
And so spake, hear what he said:
"Go to, fool!  What dost thou there?"
Quoth the king: "A son I bear.
Soon as is my month fulfilled,
And I am quite whole and healed,
Then shall I the mass go hear,
As my ancestor did ere,
And my great war to maintain
'Gainst mine enemies again.
   I will not leave it!" {62}

Here they speak and tell the story.

When Aucassin heard the king speak thus, he took all the clothes which were on him, and flung
them down the room.  He saw behind him a stick.  He took it, and turned and struck him, and
beat him so that he was like to have killed him.

"Ah, fair sir!" said the king, "what is it you ask of me?  Have you your wits distraught, you
who beat me in my own house?"

"By the heart of God," said Aucassin, "you whoreson knave, I will kill you unless you give
me your word that never more shall any man in your land lie in child-bed!"

He gave him his word; and when he had given it,

"Sir," said Aucassin, "now take me where your wife is with the army!"

"Sir, right willingly!" said the king.

He mounted a horse, and Aucassin mounted his; and Nicolette remained in the queen's chambers.
And the king and Aucassin rode till they came where the queen was; and they found it a battle
of crab-apples roasted, and eggs, and fresh cheeses.  And Aucassin began to gaze at them, and
he wondered very hard.

Here they sing.

Aucassin has stayed him so,
Elbow-propped on saddle-bow,
And began a-gazing at
This tremendous pitched combat.
They had brought with them thereto
Store of cheeses enow new,
Wild crab-apples roasted through,
And of great field-mushrooms too.
He who best disturbs the fords
Is proclaimed the chief of lords.
Aucassin, the gallant knight,
'Gan a-gazing at the sight,
   And fell a-laughing.

Here they speak and tell the story.

When Aucassin saw this strange thing, he came to the king and accosted him:

"Sir," said Aucassin, "are these your enemies?"

"Yes, sir," said the king.

"And would you that I should avenge you of them?"

"Yes," said he, "willingly."

And Aucassin put his hand to his sword, and dashed in among them, and began to strike to right
and to left, and killed many of them.  And when the king saw that he was killing them he took
him by the bridle, and said,

"Ah, fair sir!  Do not kill them so!"

"How?" said Aucassin. "Do you not wish that I should avenge you?"

"Sir," said the king, "you have done it overmuch.  It is not our custom to kill one another."

The other side turned to flight; and the king and Aucassin returned to the Castle of Torelore.
And the people of the country bade the king drive Aucassin out of his land, and keep Nicolette
for his son, since she seemed in sooth a lady of high degree.  And when Nicolette heard it
she was not well-pleased; and she began to say,

Here they sing.

"King of Torelore!" she said,
Nicolette the lovely maid,
"Fool I seem in your folk's sight!
When my sweet friend clips me tight,
Smooth and soft for his delight,
Then am I at such a school,
Ball nor dance nor gay carole,
Harp nor viol nor cithole,
Nor the pleasures of nimpole, {66}
      Were ought beside it!"

Here they speak and tell the story.

Aucassin was at the Castle of Torelore, and Nicolette his love, in great content and in great
delight, for he had with him Nicolette, his sweet friend whom he loved so well.  While he was
in such content and in such delight, a fleet of Saracens came by sea and attacked the castle
and took it by storm.  They took the stuff, and led away men-captives and women- captives.
They took Nicolette and Aucassin, and bound Aucassin hand and foot and threw him into one ship,
and Nicolette into another.  And there arose a storm at sea which parted them.  The ship in
which Aucassin was went drifting over the sea till it arrived at the Castle of Beaucaire. And
when the people of the country ran to the wrecking of it, they found Aucassin, and recognised
him.  When the men of Beaucaire saw their young lord, they made great joy of him; for Aucassin
had stayed at the Castle of Torelore full three years, and his father and mother were dead.
They brought him to the Castle of Beaucaire, and all became his liegemen.  And he held his
land in peace.

Here they sing.

Aucassin did thus repair
To his city of Beaucaire;
All the kingdom and countrie
Held in great tranquillity.
Swore he by God's majesty,
Sorer far is his regret
For bright-favoured Nicolette
Than his kinsfolk every one,
Though they all were dead and gone.
"Sweet my sweetheart, bright of cheer,
You to seek I know not where!
Never God made that countrie,
Overland or oversea,
If I thought to light on thee,
   I'd not fly thither!"

Here they speak and tell the story.

Now we will leave Aucassin, and tell of Nicolette.  The ship in which Nicolette was, was the
king of Carthage's, and he was her father, and she had twelve brothers, all princes or kings.
When they saw Nicolette so beautiful, they did her very great honour, and made rejoicing over
her; and much they questioned of her who she was; for in sooth she seemed a very noble lady
and of high degree.  But she could not tell them who she was; for she had been carried captive
as a little child.

They sailed till they came beneath the city of Carthage.  And when Nicolette saw the walls
of the castle, and the country, she recognised that it was there she had been brought up and
carried captive as a little child; yet she was not such a little child but that she knew well
that she had been daughter to the king of Carthage, and that she had been brought up in the city.

Here they sing.

Nicolette, the wise, the brave,
Won to land from off the wave;
Sees the wharves, the city walls,
And the palaces and halls;
Then she cries, "Ah! woe is me!
Ah, woe worth my high degree!
King's daughter of Carthagen,
To the Amiral akin!
Here me holds a salvage horde!
Aucassin, my gentle lord,
Wise and worshipful and free,
Your sweet love constraineth me,
Calleth me and troubleth me!
Grant me God the Heavenly
Yet to hold you in embrace,
And that you should kiss my face
And my mouth and all my cheer,
   My liege lord dear!"

Here they speak and tell the story.

When the king of Carthage heard Nicolette speak thus, he threw his arms round her neck.

"Fair sweet friend," said he, "tell me who you are!  Be not afraid of me!"

"Sir," said she, "I am daughter to the king of Carthage, and was carried captive as a little
child, full fifteen years ago."

When they heard her speak thus, they knew well that she said truly; and they made very great
rejoicing over her, and brought her to the palace with great honour, as a king's daughter.
A lord they wished to give her, a king of Paynim; but she had no care to wed.  And when she
had been there full three days or four, she considered with herself by what device she might
go to seek Aucassin.  She procured a viol and learned to play on it; till one day they wished
to marry her to a king, a rich Paynim. Then she stole away in the night, and came to the seaport,
and harboured her at the house of a poor woman on the seashore.

And she took a herb, and smeared her head and face with it, so that she was all black and stained.
And she got a coat made, and cloak and shirt and breeches, and attired herself in minstrel
guise; and she took her viol, and went to a mariner, and so dealt with him that he took her
in his ship.  They set their sail, and sailed over the high sea till they arrived at the land
of Provence.  And Nicolette went forth, and took her viol, and went playing through the country,
till she came to the Castle of Beaucaire, where Aucassin was.

Here they sing.

At Beaucaire beneath the tower
Aucassin was one fair hour.
Here he sat him on a stair;
Round him his proud barons were;
Saw the flower and green herb spring,
Heard the song-bird sweetly sing;
Of his love he thought anew,
Nicolette the maiden true,
Whom he loved so long a day;
Then to tears and sighs gave way.
Look you, Nicolette below
Draws her viol, draws her bow;
Now she speaks, her tale tells so:
"List to me, proud lords arow,
Those aloft and those alow!
Would it please you hear a word
Of Aucassin, a proud lord,
And of Nicolette the bold?
Long their love did last and hold
Till he sought her in the wold.
Then, from Torelore's stronghold,
They were haled by heathen horde.
Of Aucassin we've no word.
Nicolette the maiden bold
Is at Carthage the stronghold,
Whom her father dear doth hold
Who of yonder land is lord.
Husband they would her award,
Felon king of heathenesse.
Nicolette cares not for this,
For she loves a lording lad,
Aucassin to name he had.
By God and His name she vows
Never lord will she espouse,
If she have not her true love
   She's so fain of."

Here they speak and tell the story.

When Aucassin heard Nicolette speak thus, he was very glad, and he took her on one side, and
asked her,

"Fair sweet comrade," said Aucassin, "know you ought of this Nicolette, of whom you have sung?"

