THE LIFE OF CESARE BORGIA

Of France, Duke of Valentinois and Romagna, Prince of Andria and Venafri Count of Dyois, Lord
of Piombino, Camerino and Urbino, Gonfalonier and Captain-General of Holy Church

A History and Some Criticisms

By Raphael Sabatini

PREFACE

This is no Chronicle of Saints. Nor yet is it a History of Devils. It is a record of certain
very human, strenuous men in a very human, strenuous age; a lustful, flamboyant age; an age
red with blood and pale with passion at white-heat; an age of steel and velvet, of vivid colour,
dazzling light and impenetrable shadow; an age of swift movement, pitiless violence and high
endeavour, of sharp antitheses and amazing contrasts.

To judge it from the standpoint of this calm, deliberate, and correct century--as we conceive
our own to be--is for sedate middle-age to judge from its own standpoint the reckless, hot,
passionate, lustful humours of youth, of youth that errs grievously and achieves greatly.

So to judge that epoch collectively is manifestly wrong, a hopeless procedure if it be our
aim to understand it and to be in sympathy with it, as it becomes broad-minded age to be tolerantly
in sympathy with the youth whose follies it perceives. Life is an ephemeral business, and we
waste too much of it in judging where it would beseem us better to accept, that we ourselves
may come to be accepted by such future ages as may pursue the study of us.

But if it be wrong to judge a past epoch collectively by the standards of our own time, how
much more is it not wrong to single out individuals for judgement by those same standards,
after detaching them for the purpose from the environment in which they had their being? How
false must be the conception of them thus obtained! We view the individuals so selected through
a microscope of modern focus. They appear monstrous and abnormal, and we straight-way assume
them to be monsters and abnormalities, never considering that the fault is in the adjustment
of the instrument through which we inspect them, and that until that is corrected others of
that same past age, if similarly viewed, must appear similarly distorted.

Hence it follows that some study of an age must ever prelude and accompany the study of its
individuals, if comprehension is to wait upon our labours. To proceed otherwise is to judge
an individual Hottentot or South Sea Islander by the code of manners that obtains in Belgravia
or Mayfair.

Mind being the seat of the soul, and literature being the expression of the mind, literature,
it follows, is the soul of an age, the surviving and immortal part of it; and in the literature
of the Cinquecento you shall behold for the looking the ardent, unmoral, naïve soul of this
Renaissance that was sprawling in its lusty, naked infancy and bellowing hungrily for the pap
of knowledge, and for other things. You shall infer something of the passionate mettle of this
infant: his tempestuous mirth, his fierce rages, his simplicity, his naïveté, his inquisitiveness,
his cunning, his deceit, his cruelty, his love of sunshine and bright gewgaws.

To realize him as he was, you need but to bethink you that this was the age in which the Decamerone
of Giovanni Boccaccio, the Facetiae of Poggio, the Satires of Filelfo, and the Hermaphroditus
of Panormitano afforded reading-matter to both sexes. This was the age in which the learned
and erudite Lorenzo Valla--of whom more anon--wrote his famous indictment of virginity, condemning
it as against nature with arguments of a most insidious logic. This was the age in which Casa,
Archbishop of Benevento, wrote a most singular work of erotic philosophy, which, coming from
a churchman's pen, will leave you cold with horror should you chance to turn its pages. This
was the age of the Discovery of Man; the pagan age which stripped Christ of His divinity to
bestow it upon Plato, so that Marsilio Ficino actually burnt an altar-lamp before an image
of the Greek by whose teachings--in common with so many scholars of his day--he sought to inform
himself.

It was an age that had become unable to discriminate between the merits of the Saints of the
Church and the Harlots of the Town. Therefore it honoured both alike, extolled the carnal merits
of the one in much the same terms as were employed to extol the spiritual merits of the other.
Thus when a famous Roman courtesan departed this life in the year 1511, at the early age of
twenty-six, she was accorded a splendid funeral and an imposing tomb in the Chapel Santa Gregoria
with a tablet bearing the following inscription:

"IMPERIA CORTISANA ROMANA QUAE DIGNA TANTO NOMINE, RARAE INTER MORTALES FORMAE SPECIMEN DEDIT."

It was, in short, an age so universally immoral as scarcely to be termed immoral, since immorality
may be defined as a departure from the morals that obtain a given time and in a given place.
So that whilst from our own standpoint the Cinquecento, taken collectively, is an age of grossest
licence and immorality, from the standpoint of the Cinquecento itself few of its individuals
might with justice be branded immoral.

For the rest, it was an epoch of reaction from the Age of Chivalry: an epoch of unbounded luxury,
of the cult and worship of the beautiful externally; an epoch that set no store by any inward
virtue, by truth or honour; an epoch that laid it down as a maxim that no inconvenient engagement
should be kept if opportunity offered to evade it.

The history of the Cinquecento is a history developed in broken pledges, trusts dishonoured
and basest treacheries, as you shall come to conclude before you have read far in the story
that is here to be set down.

In a profligate age what can you look for but profligates? Is it just, is it reasonable, or
is it even honest to take a man or a family from such an environment, for judgement by the
canons of a later epoch? Yet is it not the method that has been most frequently adopted in
dealing with the vast subject of the Borgias?

To avoid the dangers that must wait upon that error, the history of that House shall here be
taken up with the elevation of Calixtus III to the Papal Throne; and the reign of the four
Popes immediately preceding Roderigo Borgia--who reigned as Alexander VI--shall briefly be
surveyed that a standard may be set by which to judge the man and the family that form the
real subject of this work.

The history of this amazing Pope Alexander is yet to be written. No attempt has been made to
exhaust it here. Yet of necessity he bulks large in these pages; for the history of his dazzling,
meteoric son is so closely interwoven with his own that it is impossible to present the one
without dealing at considerable length with the other.

The sources from which the history of the House of Borgia has been culled are not to be examined
in a preface. They are too numerous, and they require too minute and individual a consideration
that their precise value and degree of credibility may be ascertained. Abundantly shall such
examination be made in the course of this history, and in a measure as the need arises to cite
evidence for one side or for the other shall that evidence be sifted.

Never, perhaps, has anything more true been written of the Borgias and their history than the
matter contained in the following lines of Rawdon Brown in his Ragguagli sulla Vita e sulle
Opere di Marino Sanuto: "It seems to me that history has made use of the House of Borgia as
of a canvas upon which to depict the turpitudes of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries."

Materials for the work were very ready to the hand; and although they do not signally differ
from the materials out of which the histories of half a dozen Popes of the same epoch might
be compiled, they are far more abundant in the case of the Borgia Pope, for the excellent reason
that the Borgia Pope detaches from the background of the Renaissance far more than any of his
compeers by virtue of his importance as a political force.

In this was reason to spare for his being libelled and lampooned even beyond the usual extravagant
wont. Slanders concerning him and his son Cesare were readily circulated, and they will generally
be found to spring from those States which had most cause for jealousy and resentment of the
Borgia might--Venice, Florence, and Milan, amongst others.

No rancour is so bitter as political rancour--save, perhaps, religious rancour, which we shall
also trace; no warfare more unscrupulous or more prone to use the insidious weapons of slander
than political warfare. Of this such striking instances abound in our own time that there can
scarce be the need to labour the point. And from the form taken by such slanders as are circulated
in our own sedate and moderate epoch may be conceived what might be said by political opponents
in a fierce age that knew no pudency and no restraint. All this in its proper place shall be
more closely examined.

For many of the charges brought against the House of Borgia some testimony exists; for many
others--and these are the more lurid, sensational, and appalling covering as they do rape and
murder, adultery, incest, and the sin of the Cities of the Plain--no single grain of real evidence
is forthcoming. Indeed, at this time of day evidence is no longer called for where the sins
of the Borgias are concerned. Oft-reiterated assertion has usurped the place of evidence--for
a lie sufficiently repeated comes to be credited by its very utterer. And meanwhile the calumny
has sped from tongue to tongue, from pen to pen, gathering matter as it goes. The world absorbs
the stories; it devours them greedily so they be sensational, and writers well aware of this
have been pandering to that morbid appetite for some centuries now with this subject of the
Borgias. A salted, piquant tale of vice, a ghastly story of moral turpitude and physical corruption,
a hair-raising narrative of horrors and abominations--these are the stock-in-trade of the sensation-monger.
With the authenticity of the matters he retails such a one has no concern. "Se non é vero é
ben trovato," is his motto, and in his heart the sensation-monger--of whatsoever age--rather
hopes the thing be true. He will certainly make his public so believe it; for to discredit
it would be to lose nine-tenths of its sensational value. So he trims and adjusts his wares,
adds a touch or two of colour and what else he accounts necessary to heighten their air of
authenticity, to dissemble any peeping spuriousness.

A form of hypnosis accompanies your study of the subject--a suggestion that what is so positively
and repeatedly stated must of necessity be true, must of necessity have been proved by irrefutable
evidence at some time or other. So much you take for granted--for matters which began their
existence perhaps as tentative hypotheses have imperceptibly developed into established facts.

Occasionally it happens that we find some such sentence as the following summing up this deed
or that one in the Borgia histories: "A deal of mystery remains to be cleared up, but the Verdict
of History assigns the guilt to Cesare Borgia."

Behold how easy it is to dispense with evidence. So that your tale be well-salted and well-spiced,
a fico for evidence! If it hangs not overwell together in places, if there be contradictions,
lacunae, or openings for doubt, fling the Verdict of History into the gap, and so strike any
questioner into silence.

So far have matters gone in this connection that who undertakes to set down to-day the history
of Cesare Borgia, with intent to do just and honest work, must find it impossible to tell a
plain and straightforward tale--to present him not as a villain of melodrama, not a monster,
ludicrous, grotesque, impossible, but as human being, a cold, relentless egotist, it is true,
using men for his own ends, terrible and even treacherous in his reprisals, swift as a panther
and as cruel where his anger was aroused, yet with certain elements of greatness: a splendid
soldier, an unrivalled administrator, a man pre-eminently just, if merciless in that same justice.

To present Cesare Borgia thus in a plain straightforward tale at this time of day, would be
to provoke the scorn and derision of those who have made his acquaintance in the pages of that
eminent German scholar, Ferdinand Gregorovius, and of some other writers not quite so eminent
yet eminent enough to serve serious consideration. Hence has it been necessary to examine at
close quarters the findings of these great ones, and to present certain criticisms of those
same findings. The author is overwhelmingly conscious of the invidious quality of that task;
but he is no less conscious of its inevitability if this tale is to be told at all.

Whilst the actual sources of historical evidence shall be examined in the course of this narrative,
it may be well to examine at this stage the sources of the popular conceptions of the Borgias,
since there will be no occasion later to allude to them.

Without entering here into a dissertation upon the historical romance, it may be said that
in proper hands it has been and should continue to be one of the most valued and valuable expressions
of the literary art. To render and maintain it so, however, it is necessary that certain well-defined
limits should be set upon the licence which its writers are to enjoy; it is necessary that
the work should be honest work; that preparation for it should be made by a sound, painstaking
study of the period to be represented, to the end that a true impression may first be formed
and then conveyed. Thus, considering how much more far-reaching is the novel than any other
form of literature, the good results that must wait upon such endeavours are beyond question.
The neglect of them--the distortion of character to suit the romancer's ends, the like distortion
of historical facts, the gross anachronisms arising out of a lack of study, have done much
to bring the historical romance into disrepute. Many writers frankly make no pretence--leastways
none that can be discerned--of aiming at historical precision; others, however, invest their
work with a spurious scholarliness, go the length of citing authorities to support the point
of view which they have taken, and which they lay before you as the fruit of strenuous lucubrations.

These are the dangerous ones, and of this type is Victor Hugo's famous tragedy Lucrezia Borgia,
a work to which perhaps more than to any other (not excepting Les Borgias in Crimes Célèbres
of Alexandre Dumas) is due the popular conception that prevails to-day of Cesare Borgia's sister.

It is questionable whether anything has ever flowed from a distinguished pen in which so many
licences have been taken with the history of individuals and of an epoch; in which there is
so rich a crop of crude, transpontine absurdities and flagrant, impossible anachronisms. Victor
Hugo was a writer of rare gifts, a fertile romancer and a great poet, and it may be unjust
to censure him for having taken the fullest advantages of the licences conceded to both. But
it would be difficult to censure him too harshly for having--in his Lucrezia Borgia--struck
a pose of scholarliness, for having pretended and maintained that his work was honest work
founded upon the study of historical evidences. With that piece of charlatanism he deceived
the great mass of the unlettered of France and of all Europe into believing that in his tragedy
he presented the true Lucrezia Borgia.

"If you do not believe me," he declared, "read Tommaso Tommasi, read the Diary of Burchard."

Read, then, that Diary, extending over a period of twenty-three years, from 1483 to 1506, of
the Master of Ceremonies of the Vatican (which largely contributes the groundwork of the present
history), and the one conclusion to which you will be forced is that Victor Hugo himself had
never read it, else he would have hesitated to bid you refer to a work which does not support
a single line that he has written.

As for Tommaso Tommasi--oh, the danger of a little learning! Into what quagmires does it not
lead those who flaunt it to impress you!

Tommasi's place among historians is on precisely the same plane as Alexandre Dumas's. His Vita
di Cesare Borgia is on the same historical level as Les Borgias, much of which it supplied.
Like Crimes Célèbres, Tommasi's book is invested with a certain air of being a narrative of
sober fact; but like Crimes Célèbres, it is none the less a work of fiction.

This Tommaso Tommasi, whose real name was Gregorio Leti--and it is under this that such works
of his as are reprinted are published nowadays--was a most prolific author of the seventeenth
century, who, having turned Calvinist, vented in his writings a mordacious hatred of the Papacy
and of the religion from which he had seceded. His Life of Cesare Borgia was published in 1670.
It enjoyed a considerable vogue, was translated into French, and has been the chief source
from which many writers of fiction and some writers of "fact" have drawn for subsequent work
to carry forward the ceaseless defamation of the Borgias.

History should be as inexorable as Divine Justice. Before we admit facts, not only should we
call for evidence and analyse it when it is forthcoming, but the very sources of such evidence
should be examined, that, as far as possible, we may ascertain what degree of credit they deserve.
In the study of the history of the Borgias, we repeat, there has been too much acceptance without
question, too much taking for granted of matters whose incredibility frequently touches and
occasionally oversteps the confines of the impossible.

One man knew Cesare Borgia better, perhaps, than did any other contemporary, of the many who
have left more or less valuable records; for the mind of that man was the acutest of its age,
one of the acutest Italy and the world have ever known. That man was Niccolô Macchiavelli,
Secretary of State to the Signory of Florence. He owed no benefits to Cesare; he was the ambassador
of a power that was ever inimical to the Borgias; so that it is not to be dreamt that his judgement
suffered from any bias in Cesare's favour. Yet he accounted Cesare Borgia--as we shall see--the
incarnation of an ideal conqueror and ruler; he took Cesare Borgia as the model for his famous
work The Prince, written as a grammar of statecraft for the instruction in the art of government
of that weakling Giuliano de'Medici.

Macchiavelli pronounces upon Cesare Borgia the following verdict:

"If all the actions of the duke are taken into consideration, it will be seen how great were
the foundations he had laid to future power. Upon these I do not think it superfluous to discourse,
because I should not know what better precept to lay before a new prince than the example of
his actions; and if success did not wait upon what dispositions he had made, that was through
no fault of his own, but the result of an extraordinary and extreme malignity of fortune."

In its proper place shall be considered what else Macchiavelli had to say of Cesare Borgia
and what to report of events that he witnessed connected with Cesare Borgia's career.

Meanwhile, the above summary of Macchiavelli's judgement is put forward as a justification
for the writing of this book, which has for scope to present to you the Cesare Borgia who served
as the model for The Prince.

Before doing so, however, there is the rise of the House of Borgia to be traced, and in the
first two of the four books into which this history will be divided it is Alexander VI, rather
than his son, who will hold the centre of the stage.

If the author has a mercy to crave of his critics, it is that they will not impute it to him
that he has set out with the express aim of "whitewashing"--as the term goes--the family of
Borgia. To whitewash is to overlay, to mask the original fabric under a superadded surface.
Too much superadding has there been here already. By your leave, all shall be stripped away.
The grime shall be removed and the foulness of inference, of surmise, of deliberate and cold-blooded
malice, with which centuries of scribblers, idle, fantastic, sensational, or venal, have coated
the substance of known facts.

But the grime shall be preserved and analysed side by side with the actual substance, that
you may judge if out of zeal to remove the former any of the latter shall have been included
in the scraping.

The author expresses his indebtedness to the following works which, amongst others, have been
studied for the purposes of the present history:

  Alvisi, Odoardo, Cesare Borgia, Duca di Romagna.  Imola, 1878.
  Auton, Jean d', Chroniques de Louis XII (Soc. de l'Hist. de France).
      Paris, 1889.
  Baldi, Bernardino, Della Vita e Fatti di Guidobaldo.  Milano, 1821.
  Barthélemy, Charles, Erreurs et Mensonges Historiques.  Paris, 1873.
  Bernardi, Andrea, Cronache Forlivese, 1476-1517.  Bologna, 1897.
  Bonnaffé, Edmond, Inventaire de la Duchesse de Valentinois, Paris,
      1878.
  Bonoli, Paolo, Istorie della Città di Forli.  Forli, 1661.
  Bourdeilles, Pierre, Vie des Hommes Illustres.  Leyde, 1666.
      Venezia, 1837.
  Buonaccorsi, Biagio, Diario.  Firenze, 1568.
  Burchard, Joannes, Diarium, sive Rerum Urbanarum Commentarii.
     (Edited by L. Thuasne.) Paris, 1885.
  Burckhardt, Jacob, Der Cultur der Renaissance in Italien.  Basel, 1860.
  Castiglione, Baldassare, Il Cortigiano.  Firenze, 1885.
  Chapelles, Grillon des, Esquisses Biographiques.  Paris, 1862.
  Cerri, Domenico, Borgia.  Tonino, 1857.
  Clementini, Cesare, Raccolto Istorico delle Fondatione di Rimino.
      Rimini, 1617.
  Corio, Bernardino, Storia di Milano.  Milano, 1885.
  Corvo, Baron, Chronicles of the House of Borgia.  London, 1901.
  Espinois, Henri de l', Le Pape Alexandre VI (in the Revue des Questions
      Historiques, Vol. XXIX).  Paris, 1881.
  Giovio, Paolo, La Vita di Dicenove Uomini Illustri.  Venetia, 1561.
  Giovio, Paolo, Delle Istorie del Suo Tempo.  Venetia, 1608.
  Giustiniani, Antonio, Dispacci, 1502-1505.  (Edited by Pasquale Villari.)
      Firenze, 1876.
  Granata, F., Storia Civile di Capua.  1752.
  Gregorovius, Ferdinand, Geschichte der Stadt Rom im Mittelalter.
      Stuttgart, 1889.
  Gregorovius, Ferdinand, Lacrezia Borgia (Italian translation).  Firenze,
      1855.
  Guicciardini, Francesco, Istoria d'Italia.  Milan, 1803.
  Guingené, P. L., Histoire Littéraire d'Italie.  Milano, 1820.
  Infessura, Stefano, Diarum Rerum Romanum.  (Edited by 0. Tommassini.)
      Roma, 1887.
  Leonetti, A., Papa Alessandro VI.  Bologna, 1880.
  Leti, Gregorio ("Tommaso Tommasi"), Vita di Cesare Borgia, Milano, 1851.
  Lucaire, Achille, Alain le Grand, Sire d'Albret.  Paris, 1877.
  Macchiavelli, Niccolô, Il Principe.  Torino, 1853.
  Macchiavelli, Niccolô, Le Istorie Fiorentine.  Firenze, 1848.
  Macchiavelli, Niccolô, Opere Minori.  Firenze, 1852.
  Matarazzo, Francesco, Cronaca della Città di Perugia, 1492-1503.
      (Edited by F. Bonaini and F. Polidori.) In Archivio Storico
      Italiano, Firenze, 1851.
  Panvinio, Onofrio, Le Vite dei Pontefici.  Venezia, 1730.
  Pascale, Aq., Racconto del Sacco di Capova.  Napoli, 1632.
  Righi, B., Annali di Faenza.  Faenza, 1841.
  Sanazzaro, Opere.  Padua, 1723.
  Sanuto Marino, Diarii, Vols. I to V. (Edited by F. Stefani.) Venice,
      1879.
  Tartt, W. M., Pandolfo Collenuccio, Memoirs connected with his life.
      1868.
  "Tommaso Tommasi" (Gregorio Leti), Vita di Cesare Borgia.  1789.
  Varchi, Benedetto, Storia Fiorentina.  Florence, 1858.
  Visari, Gustavo, Vita degli Artefici.
  Villari, Pasquale, La Storia di Girolamo Savonarola, etc.  Florence,
      1861.
  Villari, Pasquale, Niccolò Machiavelli e I suoi Tempi.  Milano, 1895.
  Yriarte, Charles, La Vie de César Borgia.  Paris, 1889.
  Yriarte, Charles, Autour des Borgia.  Paris, 1891.
  Zurita, Geronimo, Historia del Rey Don Hernando el Catolico (in Anales).
      Çaragoça, 1610.

CONTENTS

BOOK I

THE HOUSE OF THE BULL

CHAPTER

    I.  THE RISE OF THE HOUSE OF BORGIA

   II.  THE REIGNS OF SIXTUS IV AND INNOCENT VIII

  III.  ALEXANDER VI

   IV.  BORGIA ALLIANCES

BOOK II

THE BULL PASCANT

    I.  THE FRENCH INVASION

   II.  THE POPE AND THE SUPERNATURAL

  III.  THE ROMAN BARONS

   IV.  THE MURDER OF THE DUKE OF GANDIA

    V.  THE RENUNCIATION OF THE PURPLE

BOOK III

THE BULL RAMPANT

    I.  THE DUCHESS OF VALENTINOIS

   II.  THE KNELL OF THE TYRANTS

  III.  IMOLA AND FORLI

   IV.  GONFALONIER OF THE CHURCH

    V.  THE MURDER OF ALFONSO OF ARAGON

   VI.  RIMINI AND PESARO

  VII.  THE SIEGE OF FAENZA

 VIII.  ASTORRE MANFREDI

   IX.  CASTEL BOLOGNESE AND PIOMBINO

    X.  THE END OF THE HOUSE OF ARAGON

   XI.  THE LETTER TO SILVIO SAVELLI

  XII.  LUCREZIA'S THIRD MARRIAGE

 XIII.  URBINO AND CAMERINO

  XIV.  THE REVOLT OF THE CONDOTTIERI

   XV.  MACCHIAVELLI'S LEGATION

  XVI.  RAMIRO DE LORQUA

 XVII.  "THE BEAUTIFUL STRATAGEM"

 VIII.  THE ZENITH

BOOK IV

THE BULL CADENT

    I.  THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER VI

   II.  PIUS III

  III.  JULIUS II

   IV.  ATROPOS

BOOK I

THE HOUSE OF THE BULL

"Borgia stirps: BOS: atque Ceres transcendit Olympo, Cantabat nomen saecula cuncta suum."

Michele Ferno

CHAPTER I. THE RISE OF THE HOUSE OF BORGIA

Although the House of Borgia, which gave to the Church of Rome two popes and at least one saint,(1)
is to be traced back to the eleventh century, claiming as it does to have its source in the
Kings of Aragon, we shall take up its history for our purposes with the birth at the city of
Xativa, in the kingdom of Valencia, on December 30, 1378, of Alonso de Borja, the son of Don
Juan Domingo de Borja and his wife Doña Francisca.

     1  St. Francisco Borgia, S.J.--great-grandson of Pope
     Alexander VI, born at Gandia, in Spain, in 1510.

To this Don Alonso de Borja is due the rise of his family to its stupendous eminence. An able,
upright, vigorous-minded man, he became a Professor and Doctor of Jurisprudence at the University
of Lerida, and afterwards served Alfonso I of Aragon, King of Naples and the Two Sicilies,
in the capacity of secretary. This office he filled with the distinction that was to be expected
from one so peculiarly fitted for it by the character of the studies he had pursued.

He was made Bishop of Valencia, created Cardinal in 1444, and finally--in 1455--ascended the
throne of St. Peter as Calixtus III, an old man, enfeebled in body, but with his extraordinary
vigour of mind all unimpaired.

Calixtus proved himself as much a nepotist as many another Pope before and since. This needs
not to be dilated upon here; suffice it that in February of 1456 he gave the scarlet hat of
Cardinal-Deacon of San Niccoló, in Carcere Tulliano, to his nephew Don Roderigo de Lanzol y Borja.

Born in 1431 at Xativa, the son of Juana de Borja (sister of Calixtus) and her husband Don
Jofrè de Lanzol, Roderigo was in his twenty-fifth year at the time of his being raised to the
purple, and in the following year he was further created Vice-Chancellor of Holy Church with
an annual stipend of eight thousand florins. Like his uncle he had studied jurisprudence--at
the University of Bologna--and mentally and physically he was extraordinarily endowed.

From the pen-portraits left of him by Gasparino of Verona, and Girolamo Porzio, we know him
for a tall, handsome man with black eyes and full lips, elegant, courtly, joyous, and choicely
eloquent, of such health and vigour and endurance that he was insensible to any fatigue. Giasone
Maino of Milan refers to his "elegant appearance, serene brow, royal glance, a countenance
that at once expresses generosity and majesty, and the genial and heroic air with which his
whole personality is invested." To a similar description of him Gasparino adds that "all women
upon whom he so much as casts his eyes he moves to love him; attracting them as the lodestone
attracts iron;" which is, it must be admitted, a most undesirable reputation in a churchman.

A modern historian(1) who uses little restraint when writing of Roderigo Borgia says of him
that "he was a man of neither much energy nor determined will," and further that "the firmness
and energy wanting to his character were, however, often replaced by the constancy of his evil
passions, by which he was almost blinded." How the constancy of evil passions can replace firmness
and energy as factors of worldly success is not readily discernible, particularly if their
possessor is blinded by them. The historical worth of the stricture may safely be left to be
measured by its logical value. For the rest, to say that Roderigo Borgia was wanting in energy
and in will is to say something to which his whole career gives the loud and derisive lie,
as will--to some extent at least--be seen in the course of this work.

Say of him that he was ambitious, worldly, greedy of power, and a prey to carnal lusts. All
these he was. But for very sanity's sake do not let it be said that he was wanting either in
energy or in will, for he was energy and will incarnate.

Consider that with Calixtus III's assumption of the Tiara Rome became the Spaniard's happy
hunting-ground, and that into the Eternal City streamed in their hundreds the Catalan adventurers--priests,
clerks, captains of fortune, and others--who came to seek advancement at the hands of a Catalan
Pope. This Spanish invasion Rome resented. She grew restive under it.

Roderigo's elder brother, Don Pedro Luis de Lanzol y Borja, was made Gonfalonier of the Church,
Castellan of all pontifical fortresses and Governor of the Patrimony of St. Peter, with the
title of Duke of Spoleto and, later, Prefect of Rome, to the displacement of an Orsini from
that office. Calixtus invested this nephew with all temporal power that it was in the Church's
privilege to bestow, to the end that he might use it as a basis to overset the petty tyrannies
of Romagna, and to establish a feudal claim on the Kingdom of Naples.

Here already we see more than a hint of that Borgia ambition which was to become a byword,
and the first attempt of this family to found a dynasty for itself and a State that should
endure beyond the transient tenure of the Pontificate, an aim that was later to be carried
into actual--if ephemeral--fulfilment by Cesare Borgia.

The Italians watched this growth of Spanish power with jealous, angry eyes. The mighty House
of Orsini, angered by the supplanting of one of its members in the Prefecture of Rome, kept
its resentment warm, and waited. When in August of 1458 Calixtus III lay dying, the Orsini
seized the chance: they incited the city to ready insurgence, and with fire and sword they
drove the Spaniards out.

Don Pedro Luis made haste to depart, contrived to avoid the Orsini, who had made him their
special quarry, and getting a boat slipped down the Tiber to Civita Vecchia, where he died
suddenly some six weeks later, thereby considerably increasing the wealth of Roderigo, his
brother and his heir.

Roderigo's cousin, Don Luis Juan, Cardinal-Presbyter of Santi Quattro Coronati, another member
of the family who owed his advancement to his uncle Calixtus, thought it also expedient to
withdraw from that zone of danger to men of his nationality and name.

Roderigo de Lanzol y Borja alone remained--leastways, the only prominent member of his house--boldly
to face the enmity of the majority of the Sacred College, which had looked with grim disfavour
upon his uncle's nepotism. Unintimidated, he entered the Conclave for the election of a successor
to Calixtus, and there the chance which so often prefers to bestow its favours upon him who
knows how to profit by them, gave him the opportunity to establish himself as firmly as ever
at the Vatican, and further to advance his interests.

It fell out that when the scrutiny was taken, two cardinals stood well in votes--the brilliant,
cultured Enea Silvio Bartolomeo de' Piccolomini, Cardinal of Siena, and the French Cardinal
d'Estouteville--though neither had attained the minimum majority demanded. Of these two, the
lead in number of votes lay with the Cardinal of Siena, and his election therefore might be
completed by Accession--that is, by the voices of such cardinals as had not originally voted
for him--until the minimum majority, which must exceed two-thirds, should be made up.

The Cardinal Vice-Chancellor Roderigo de Lanzol y Borja led this accession, with the result
that the Cardinal of Siena became Pontiff--as Pius II--and was naturally enough disposed to
advance the interests of the man who had been instrumental in helping him to that eminence.
Thus, his position at the Vatican, in the very face of all hostility, became stronger and more
prominent than ever.

A letter written two years later from the Baths at Petriolo by Pius II to Roderigo when the
latter was in Siena--whither he had been sent by his Holiness to superintend the building of
the Cathedral and the Episcopal and Piccolomini palaces--is frequently cited by way of establishing
the young prelate's dissolute ways. It is a letter at once stern and affectionate, and it certainly
leaves no doubt as to what manner of man was the Cardinal Vice-Chancellor in his private life,
and to what manner of unecciesiastical pursuits he inclined. It is difficult to discover in
it any grounds upon which an apologist may build.

"BELOVED SON,

"When four days ago, in the gardens of Giovanni de Bichis, were assembled several women of
Siena addicted to worldly vanity, your worthiness, as we have learnt, little remembering the
office which you fill, was entertained by them from the seventeenth to the twenty-second hour.
For companion you had one of your colleagues, one whom his years if not the honour of the Holy
See should have reminded of his duty. From what we have heard, dancing was unrestrainedly indulged,
and not one of love's attractions was absent, whilst your behaviour was no different from that
which might have been looked for in any worldly youth. Touching what happened there, modesty
imposes silence. Not only the circumstance itself, but the very name of it is unworthy in one
of your rank. The husbands, parents, brothers, and relations of these young women were excluded,
in order that your amusements should be the more unbridled. You with a few servants undertook
to direct and lead those dances. It is said that nothing is now talked of in Siena but your
frivolity. Certain it is that here at the baths, where the concourse of ecclesiastics and laity
is great, you are the topic of the day. Our displeasure is unutterable, since all this reflects
dishonourably upon the sacerdotal estate and office. It will be said of us that we are enriched
and promoted not to the end that we may lead blameless lives, but that we may procure the means
to indulge our pleasures. Hence the contempt of us entertained by temporal princes and powers
and the daily sarcasms of the laity. Hence also the reproof of our own mode of life when we
attempt to reprove others. The very Vicar of Christ is involved in this contempt, since he
appears to countenance such things. You, beloved son, have charge of the Bishopric of Valencia,
the first of Spain; you are also Vice-Chancellor of the Church; and what renders your conduct
still more blameworthy is that you are among the cardinals, with the Pope, one of the counsellors
of the Holy See. We submit it to your own judgement whether it becomes your dignity to court
young women, to send fruit and wine to her you love, and to have no thought for anything but
pleasure. We are censured on your account; the blessed memory of your uncle Calixtus is vituperated,
since in the judgement of many he was wrong to have conferred so many honours upon you. If
you seek excuses in your youth, you are no longer so young that you cannot understand what
duties are imposed upon you by your dignity. A cardinal should be irreproachable, a model of
moral conduct to all. And what just cause have we for resentment when temporal princes bestow
upon us titles that are little honourable, dispute with us our possessions, and attempt to
bend us to their will? In truth it is we who inflict these wounds upon ourselves, and it is
we who occasion ourselves these troubles, undermining more and more each day by our deeds the
authority of the Church. Our guerdon is shame in this world and condign punishment in the next.
May your prudence therefore set a restraint upon these vanities and keep you mindful of your
dignity, and prevent that you be known for a gallant among married and unmarried women. But
should similar facts recur, we shall be compelled to signify that they have happened against
our will and to our sorrow, and our censure must be attended by your shame. We have always
loved you, and we have held you worthy of our favour as a man of upright and honest nature.
Act therefore in such a manner that we may maintain such an opinion of you, and nothing can
better conduce to this than that you should lead a well-ordered life. Your age, which is such
as still to promise improvement, admits that we should admonish you paternally."

"PETRIOLO, June 11, 1460."

Such a letter is calculated to shock us in our modern notions of a churchman. To us this conduct
on the part of a prelate is scandalous beyond words; that it was scandalous even then is obvious
from the Pontiff's letter; but that it was scandalous in an infinitely lesser degree is no
less obvious from the very fact that the Pontiff wrote that letter (and in such terms) instead
of incontinently unfrocking the offender.

In considering Roderigo's conduct, you are to consider--as has been urged already--the age
in which he lived. You are to remember that it was an age in which the passions and the emotions
wore no such masks as they wear to-day, but went naked and knew no shame of their nudity; an
age in which personal modesty was as little studied as hypocrisy, and in which men, wore their
vices as openly as their virtues.

No amount of simple statement can convey an adequate notion of the corrupt state of the clergy
at the time. To form any just appreciation of this, it is necessary to take a peep at some
of the documents that have survived--such a document, for instance, as that Bull of this Pope
Pius II which forbade priests from plying the trades of keeping taverns, gaming-houses, and
brothels.

