THE HIGHLAND LIGHT.

This light-house, known to mariners as the Cape Cod or Highland Light, is one of our "primary
sea-coast lights," and is usually the first seen by those approaching the entrance of Massachusetts
Bay from Europe. It is forty-three miles from Cape Ann Light, and forty-one from Boston Light.
It stands about twenty rods from the edge of the bank, which is here formed of clay. I borrowed
the plane and square, level and dividers, of a carpenter who was shingling a barn near by,
and, using one of those shingles made of a mast, contrived a rude sort of quadrant, with pins
for sights and pivots, and got the angle of elevation of the bank opposite the light-house,
and with a couple of cod-lines the length of its slope, and so measured its height on the shingle.
It rises one hundred and ten feet above its immediate base, or about one hundred and twenty-three
feet above mean low water. Graham, who has carefully surveyed the extremity of the Cape, makes
it one hundred and thirty feet. The mixed sand and clay lay at an angle of forty degrees with
the horizon, where I measured it, but the clay is generally much steeper. No cow nor hen ever
gets down it. Half a mile farther south the bank is fifteen or twenty-five feet higher, and
that appeared to be the highest land in North Truro. Even this vast clay-bank is fast wearing
away. Small streams of water trickling down it at intervals of two or three rods have left
the intermediate clay in the form of steep Gothic roofs fifty feet high or more, the ridges
as sharp and rugged-looking as rocks; and in one place the bank is curiously eaten out in the
form of a large semicircular crater.

According to the light-house keeper, the Cape is wasting here on both sides, though most on
the eastern. In some places it had lost many rods within the last year, and erelong the light-house
must be moved. We calculated, from his data, how soon the Cape would be quite worn away at
this point,--"for," said he, "I can remember sixty years back." We were even more surprised
at this last announcement--that is, at the slow waste of life and energy in our informant,
for we had taken him to be not more than forty--than at the rapid wasting of the Cape, and
we thought that he stood a fair chance to outlive the former.

Between this October and June of the next year I found that the bank had lost about forty feet
in one place opposite the light-house, and it was cracked more than forty feet farther from
the edge at the last date, the shore being strewn with the recent rubbish. But I judged that
generally it was not wearing away here at the rate of more than six feet annually. Any conclusions
drawn from the observations of a few years or one generation only are likely to prove false,
and the Cape may balk expectation by its durability. In some places even a wrecker's foot-path
down the bank lasts several years. One old inhabitant told us that when the light-house was
built, in 1798, it was calculated that it would stand forty-five years, allowing the bank to
waste one length of fence each year, "but," said he, "there it is" (or rather another near
the same site, about twenty rods from the edge of the bank).

The sea is not gaining on the Cape everywhere: for one man told me of a vessel wrecked long
ago on the north of Provincetown whose "bones" (this was his word) are still visible many rods
within the present line of the beach, half buried in sand. Perchance they lie along-side the
timbers of a whale. The general statement of the inhabitants is, that the Cape is wasting on
both sides, but extending itself on particular points on the south and west, as at Chatham
and Monomoy Beaches, and at Billingsgate, Long, and Race Points. James Freeman stated in his
day that above three miles had been added to Monomoy Beach during the previous fifty years,
and it is said to be still extending as fast as ever. A writer in the "Massachusetts Magazine,"
in the last century, tells us, that, "when the English first settled upon the Cape, there was
an island off Chatham, at three leagues' distance, called Webb's Island, containing twenty
acres, covered with red-cedar or savin. The inhabitants of Nantucket used to carry wood from
it"; but he adds that in his day a large rock alone marked the spot, and the water was six
fathoms deep there. The entrance to Nauset Harbor, which was once in Eastham, has now travelled
south into Orleans. The islands in Wellfleet Harbor once formed a continuous beach, though
now small vessels pass between them. And so of many other parts of this coast.

Perhaps what the ocean takes from one part of the Cape it gives to another,--robs Peter to
pay Paul. On the eastern side the sea appears to be everywhere encroaching on the land. Not
only the land is undermined, and its ruins carried off by currents, but the sand is blown from
the beach directly up the steep bank, where it is one hundred and fifty feet high, and covers
the original surface there many feet deep. If you sit on the edge, you will have ocular demonstration
of this by soon getting your eyes full. Thus the bank preserves its height as fast as it is
worn away. This sand is steadily travelling westward at a rapid rate, "more than a hundred
yards," says one writer, within the memory of inhabitants now living; so that in some places
peat-meadows are buried deep under the sand, and the peat is cut through it; and in one place
a large peat-meadow has made its appearance on the shore in the bank covered many feet deep,
and peat has been cut there. This accounts for that great pebble of peat which we saw in the
surf. The old oysterman had told us that many years ago he lost a "crittur" by her being mired
in a swamp near the Atlantic side, east of his house, and twenty years ago he lost the swamp
itself entirely, but has since seen signs of it appearing on the beach. He also said that he
had seen cedar-stumps "as big as cart-wheels" (!) on the bottom of the Bay, three miles off
Billingsgate Point, when leaning over the side of his boat in pleasant weather, and that that
was dry land not long ago. Another told us that a log canoe known to have been buried many
years before on the Bay side at East Harbor in Truro, where the Cape is extremely narrow, appeared
at length on the Atlantic side, the Cape having rolled over it; and an old woman said,--"Now,
you see, it is true what I told you, that the Cape is moving."

The bars along the coast shift with every storm, and in many places there is occasionally none
at all. We ourselves observed the effect of a single storm with a high tide in the night, in
July, 1855. It moved the sand on the beach opposite the light-house to the depth of six feet,
and three rods in width as far as we could see north and south, and carried it bodily off no
one knows exactly where, laying bare in one place a large rock five feet high which was invisible
before, and narrowing the beach to that extent. There is usually, as I have said, no bathing
on the back side of the Cape, on account of the undertow; but when we were there last, the
sea had, three months before, cast up a bar near this light-house, two miles long and ten rods
wide, over which the tide did not flow, leaving a narrow cove, then a quarter of a mile long,
between it and the shore, which afforded excellent bathing. This cove had from time to time
been closed up as the bar travelled northward, in one instance imprisoning four or five hundred
whiting and cod, which died there, and the water as often turned fresh and finally gave place
to sand. This bar, the inhabitants assured us, might be wholly removed, and the water be six
feet deep there in two or three days.

The light-house keeper said, that, when the wind blowed strong on to the shore, the waves ate
fast into the bank, but when it blowed off, they took no sand away; for in the former case
the wind heaped up the surface of the water next to the beach, and to preserve its equilibrium
a strong undertow immediately set back again into the sea, which carried with it the sand and
whatever else was in the way, and left the beach hard to walk on; but in the latter case the
undertow set on, and carried the sand with it, so that it was particularly difficult for shipwrecked
men to get to land when the wind blowed on to the shore, but easier when it blowed off. This
undertow, meeting the next surface-wave on the bar which itself has made, forms part of the
dam over which the latter breaks, as over an upright wall. The sea thus plays with the land,
holding a sand-bar in its mouth awhile before it swallows it, as a cat plays with a mouse;
but the fatal gripe is sure to come at last. The sea sends its rapacious east-wind to rob the
land, but before the former has got far with its prey, the land sends its honest west-wind
to recover some of its own. But, according to Lieutenant Davis, the forms, extent, and distribution
of sand-bars and banks are principally determined, not by winds and waves, but by tides.

Our host said that you would be surprised, if you were on the beach when the wind blew a hurricane
directly on to it, to see that none of the drift-wood came ashore, but all was carried directly
northward and parallel with the shore as fast as a man can walk, by the in-shore current, which
sets strongly in that direction at flood-tide. The strongest swimmers also are carried along
with it, and never gain an inch toward the beach. Even a large rock has been moved half a mile
northward along the beach. He assured us that the sea was never still on the back side of the
Cape, but ran commonly as high as your head, so that a great part of the time you could not
launch a boat there, and even in the calmest weather the waves run six or eight feet up the
beach, though then you could get off on a plank. Champlain and Poitrincourt could not land
here in 1606, on account of the swell, (la houlle,) yet the savages came off to them in a canoe.
In the Sieur de la Borde's "Relation des Caraibes," my edition of which was published at Amsterdam
in 1711, at page 530 he says:--

     "Couroumon a Caraibe, also a star [i.e. a god], makes the
     great lames à la mer, and overturns canoes. Lames à la mer
     are the long vagues which are not broken (entrecoupées),
     and such as one sees come to land all in one piece, from one
     end of a beach to another, so that, however little wind there
     may be, a shallop or a canoe could hardly land (aborder
     terre) without turning over, or being filled with water."

But on the Bay side, the water, even at its edge, is often as smooth and still as in a pond.
Commonly there are no boats used along this beach. There was a boat belonging to the Highland
Light, which the next keeper, after he had been there a year, had not launched, though he said
that there was good fishing just off the shore. Generally the life-boats cannot be used when
needed. When the waves run very high, it is impossible to get a boat off, however skilfully
you steer it, for it will often be completely covered by the curving edge of the approaching
breaker as by an arch, and so filled with water, or it will be lifted up by its bows, turned
directly over backwards, and all the contents spilled out. A spar thirty feet long is served
in the same way.

I heard of a party who went off fishing back of Wellfleet some years ago, in two boats, in
calm weather, who, when they had laden their boats with fish, and approached the land again,
found such a swell breaking on it, though there was no wind, that they were afraid to enter
it. At first they thought to pull for Provincetown; but night coming on, and that was many
miles distant. Their case seemed a desperate one. As often as they approached the shore and
saw the terrible breakers that intervened, they were deterred. In short, they were thoroughly
frightened. Finally, having thrown their fish overboard, those in one boat chose a favorable
opportunity, and succeeded, by skill and good luck, in reaching the land; but they were unwilling
to take the responsibility of telling the others when to come in, and as the other helmsman
was inexperienced, their boat was swamped at once, yet all managed to save themselves.

Much smaller waves soon make a boat "nail-sick," as the phrase is. The keeper said that after
a long and strong blow there would be three large waves, each successively larger than the
last, and then no large ones for some time, and that, when they wished to land in a boat, they
came in on the last and largest wave. Sir Thomas Browne, (as quoted in Brand's "Popular Antiquities,"
p. 372,) on the subject of the tenth wave being "greater or more dangerous than any other,"
after quoting Ovid,--

    "Qui venit hic fluctus, fluctus supereminet omnes:
    Posterior nono est, undecimoque prior,"--

says, "Which, notwithstanding, is evidently false; nor can it be made out by observation either
upon the shore or the ocean, as we have with diligence explored in both. And surely in vain
we expect a regularity in the waves of the sea, or in the particular motions thereof, as we
may in its general reciprocations, whose causes are constant, and effects therefore correspondent;
whereas its fluctuations are but motions subservient, which winds, storms, shores, shelves,
and every interjacency irregulates."

We read that the Clay Pounds were so called "because vessels have had the misfortune to be
pounded against them in gales of wind," which we regard as a doubtful derivation. There are
small ponds here, upheld by the clay, which were formerly called the Clay Pits. Perhaps this,
or Clay Ponds, is the origin of the name. Water is found in the clay quite near the surface;
but we heard of one man who had sunk a well in the sand close by, "till he could see stars
at noonday," without finding any.

Over this bare highland the wind has full sweep. Even in July it blows the wings over the heads
of the young turkeys, which do not know enough to head against it; and in gales the doors and
windows are blown in, and you must hold on to the light-house to prevent being blown into the
Atlantic. They who merely keep out on the beach in a storm in the winter are sometimes rewarded
by the Humane Society. If you would feel the full force of a tempest, take up your residence
on the top of Mount Washington, or at the Highland Light in Truro.

It was said in 1794 that more vessels were cast away on the east shore of Truro than anywhere
in Barnstable County. Notwithstanding this light-house has since been erected, after almost
every storm we read of one or more vessels wrecked here, and sometimes more than a dozen wrecks
are visible from this point at one time. The inhabitants hear the crash of vessels going to
pieces as they sit round their hearths, and they commonly date from some memorable shipwreck.
If the history of this beach could be written from beginning to end, it would be a thrilling
page in the history of commerce.

Truro was settled in the year 1700 as Dangerfield. This was a very appropriate name, for I
read on a monument in the graveyard near Pamet River the following inscription:--

          Sacred
      to the memory of
    57 citizens of Truro,
    who were lost in seven
      vessels, which
     foundered at sea in
     the memorable gale
      of Oct. 3d, 1841.

Their names and ages by families were recorded on different sides of the stone. They are said
to have been lost on George's Bank, and I was told that only one vessel drifted ashore on the
back side of the Cape, with the boys locked into the cabin and drowned. It is said that the
homes of all were "within a circuit of two miles." Twenty-eight inhabitants of Dennis were
lost in the same gale; and I read that "in one day, immediately after this storm, nearly or
quite one hundred bodies were taken up and buried on Cape Cod." The Truro Insurance Company
failed for want of skippers to take charge of its vessels. But the surviving inhabitants went
a-fishing again the next year as usual. I found that it would not do to speak of shipwrecks
there, for almost every family has lost some of its members at sea. "Who lives in that house?"
I inquired. "Three widows," was the reply. The stranger and the inhabitant view the shore with
very different eyes. The former may have come to see and admire the ocean in a storm; but the
latter looks on it as the scene where his nearest relatives were wrecked. When I remarked to
an old wrecker, partially blind, who was sitting on the edge of the bank smoking a pipe, which
he had just lit with a match of dried beach-grass, that I supposed he liked to hear the sound
of the surf, he answered, "No, I do not like to hear the sound of the surf." He had lost at
least one son in "the memorable gale," and could tell many a tale of the shipwrecks which he
had witnessed there.

In the year 1717, a noted pirate named Bellamy was led on to the bar off Wellfleet by the captain
of a snow which he had taken, to whom he had offered his vessel again, if he would pilot him
into Provincetown Harbor. Tradition says that the latter threw over a burning tar-barrel in
the night, which drifted ashore, and the pirates followed it. A storm coming on, their whole
fleet was wrecked, and more than a hundred dead bodies lay along the shore. Six who escaped
shipwreck were executed. "At times to this day," (1793,) says the historian of Wellfleet, "there
are King William and Queen Mary's coppers picked up, and pieces of silver called cob-money.
The violence of the seas moves the sands on the outer bar, so that at times the iron caboose
of the ship [that is, Bellamy's] at low ebbs has been seen." Another tells us, that, "for many
years after this shipwreck, a man of a very singular and frightful aspect used every spring
and autumn to be seen travelling on the Cape, who was supposed to have been one of Bellamy's
crew. The presumption is that he went to some place where money had been secreted by the pirates,
to get such a supply as his exigencies required. When he died, many pieces of gold were found
in a girdle which he constantly wore."

As I was walking on the beach here in my last visit, looking for shells and pebbles, just after
that storm which I have mentioned as moving the sand to a great depth, not knowing but I might
find some cob-money, I did actually pick up a French crown-piece, worth about a dollar and
six cents, near high-water mark, on the still moist sand, just under the abrupt, caving base
of the bank. It was of a dark slate-color, and looked like a flat pebble, but still bore a
very distinct and handsome head of Louis XV., and the usual legend on the reverse, "Sit Nomen
Domini Benedictum," (Blessed be the Name of the Lord,)--a pleasing sentiment to read in the
sands of the sea-shore, whatever it might be stamped on,--and I also made out the date, 1741.
Of course, I thought at first that it was that same old button which I have found so many times,
but my knife soon showed the silver. Afterward, rambling on the bars at low tide, I cheated
my companion by holding up round shells (Scutellæ) between my fingers, whereupon he quickly
stripped and came off to me.

In the Revolution, a British ship-of-war, called the Somerset, was wrecked near the Clay Pounds,
and all on board, some hundreds in number, were taken prisoners. My informant said that he
had never seen any mention of this in the histories, but that at any rate he knew of a silver
watch, which one of those prisoners by accident left there, which was still going to tell the
story. But this event is noticed by some writers.

The next summer I saw a sloop from Chatham dragging for anchors and chains just off this shore.
She had her boats out at the work while she shuffled about on various tacks, and, when anything
was found, drew up to hoist it on board. It is a singular employment, at which men are regularly
hired and paid for their industry, to hunt to-day in pleasant weather for anchors which have
been lost,--the sunken faith and hope of mariners, to which they trusted in vain: now, perchance,
it is the rusty one of some old pirate's ship or Norman fisherman, whose cable parted here
two hundred years ago; and now the best bower-anchor of a Canton or a California ship, which
has gone about her business. If the roadsteads of the spiritual ocean could be thus dragged,
what rusty flukes of hope deceived and parted chain-cables of faith might again be windlassed
aboard! enough to sink the finder's craft, or stock new navies to the end of time. The bottom
of the sea is strown with anchors, some deeper and some shallower, and alternately covered
and uncovered by the sand, perchance with a small length of iron cable still attached,--of
which where is the other end? So many unconcluded tales to be continued another time. So, if
we had diving-bells adapted to the spiritual deeps, we should see anchors with their cables
attached, as thick as eels in vinegar, all wriggling vainly toward their holding-ground. But
that is not treasure for us which another man has lost; rather it is for us to seek what no
other man has found or can find,--not be Chatham men, dragging for anchors.

The annals of this voracious beach! who could write them, unless it were a shipwrecked sailor?
How many who have seen it have seen it only in the midst of danger and distress, the last strip
of earth which their mortal eyes beheld! Think of the amount of suffering which a single strand
has witnessed! The ancients would have represented it as a sea-monster with open jaws, more
terrible than Scylla and Charybdis. An inhabitant of Truro told me that about a fortnight after
the St. John was wrecked at Cohasset he found two bodies on the shore at the Clay Pounds. They
were those of a man and a corpulent woman. The man had thick boots on, though his head was
off, but "it was along-side." It took the finder some weeks to get over the sight. Perhaps
they were man and wife, and whom God had joined the ocean-currents had not put asunder. Yet
by what slight accidents at first may they have been associated in their drifting! Some of
the bodies of those passengers were picked up far out at sea, boxed up and sunk; some brought
ashore and buried. There are more consequences to a shipwreck than the underwriters notice.
The Gulf Stream may return some to their native shores, or drop them in some out-of-the-way
cave of ocean, where time and the elements will write new riddles with their bones.--But to
return to land again.

In this bank, above the clay, I counted in the summer two hundred holes of the bank-swallow
within a space six rods long, and there were at least one thousand old birds within three times
that distance, twittering over the surf. I had never associated them in my thoughts with the
beach before. One little boy who had been a-bird's-nesting had got eighty swallows' eggs for
his share. Tell it not to the Humane Society! There were many young birds on the clay beneath,
which had tumbled out and died. Also there were many crow-blackbirds hopping about in the dry
fields, and the upland plover were breeding close by the light-house. The keeper had once cut
off one's wing while mowing, as she sat on her eggs there. This is also a favorite resort for
gunners in the fall to shoot the golden plover. As around the shores of a pond are seen devil's-needles,
butterflies, etc., so here, to my surprise, I saw at the same season great devil's-needles
of a size proportionably larger, or nearly as big as my finger, incessantly coasting up and
down the edge of the bank, and butterflies also were hovering over it, and I never saw so many
dor-bugs and beetles of various kinds as strewed the beach. They had apparently flown over
the bank in the night, and could not get up again, and some had perhaps fallen into the sea
and were washed ashore. They may have been in part attracted by the light-house lamps.

The Clay Pounds are a more fertile tract than usual. We saw some fine patches of roots and
corn here. As generally on the Cape, the plants had little stalk or leaf, but ran remarkably
to seed. The corn was hardly more than half as high as in the interior, yet the ears were large
and full, and one farmer told us that he could raise forty bushels on an acre without manure,
and sixty with it. The heads of the rye also were remarkably large. The shadbush, (Amelanchier,)
beach-plums, and blueberries, (Vaccinium Pennsylvanicum,) like the apple-trees and oaks, were
very dwarfish, spreading over the sand, but at the same time very fruitful. The blueberry was
but an inch or two high, and its fruit often rested on the ground, so that you did not suspect
the presence of the bushes, even on those bare hills, until you were treading on them. I thought
that this fertility must be owing mainly to the abundance of moisture in the atmosphere, for
I observed that what little grass there was was remarkably laden with dew in the morning, and
in summer dense imprisoning fogs frequently last till mid-day, turning one's beard into a wet
napkin about his throat, and the oldest inhabitant may lose his way within a stone's-throw
of his house, or be obliged to follow the beach for a guide. The brick house attached to the
light-house was exceedingly damp at that season, and writing-paper lost all its stiffness in
it. It was impossible to dry your towel after bathing, or to press flowers without their mildewing.
The air was so moist that we rarely wished to drink, though we could at all times taste the
salt on our lips. Salt was rarely used at table, and our host told us that his cattle invariably
refused it when it was offered them, they got so much with their grass and at every breath;
but he said that a sick horse, or one just from the country, would sometimes take a hearty
draught of salt water, and seemed to like it and be the better for it.

It was surprising to see how much water was contained in the terminal bud of the sea-side golden-rod,
standing in the sand early in July, and also how turnips, beets, carrots, etc., flourished
even in pure sand. A man travelling by the shore near there not long before us noticed something
green growing in the pure sand of the beach, just at high-water mark, and on approaching found
it to be a bed of beets flourishing vigorously, probably from seed washed out of the Franklin.
Also beets and turnips came up in the sea-weed used for manure in many parts of the Cape. This
suggests how various plants may have been dispersed over the world to distant islands and continents.
Vessels, with seeds in their cargoes, destined for particular ports, where perhaps they were
not needed, have been cast away on desolate islands, and though their crews perished, some
of their seeds have been preserved. Out of many kinds a few would find a soil and climate adapted
to them, become naturalized, and perhaps drive out the native plants at last, and so fit the
land for the habitation of man. It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good, and for the time
lamentable shipwrecks may thus contribute a new vegetable to a continent's stock, and prove
on the whole a lasting blessing to its inhabitants. Or winds and currents might effect the
same without the intervention of man. What, indeed, are the various succulent plants which
grow on the beach but such beds of beets and turnips, sprung originally from seeds which perhaps
were cast on the waters for this end, though we do not know the Franklin which they came out
of? In ancient times some Mr. Bell (?) was sailing this way in his ark with seeds of rocket,
saltwort, sandwort, beach-grass, samphire, bayberry, poverty-grass, etc., all nicely labelled
with directions, intending to establish a nursery somewhere; and did not a nursery get established,
though he thought that he had failed?

About the light-house I observed in the summer the pretty Polygala polygama, spreading ray-wise
flat on the ground, white pasture-thistles, (Cirsium pumilum,) and amid the shrubbery the Smilax
glauca, which is commonly said not to grow so far north. Near the edge of the banks about half
a mile southward, the broom-crowberry, (Empetrum Conradii,) for which Plymouth is the only
locality in Massachusetts usually named, forms pretty green mounds four or five feet in diameter
by one foot high,--soft, springy beds for the wayfarer: I saw it afterward in Provincetown.
But prettiest of all, the scarlet pimpernel, or poor-man's weather-glass, (Anagallis arvensis,)
greets you in fair weather on almost every square yard of sand. From Yarmouth I have received
the Chrysopsis falcata, (golden aster,) and Vaccinium stamineum, (deer-berry or squaw-huckleberry,)
with fruit not edible, sometimes as large as a cranberry (Sept. 7).

The Highland Light-house,[A] where we were staying, is a substantial-looking building of brick,
painted white, and surmounted by an iron cap. Attached to it is the dwelling of the keeper,
one story high, also of brick, and built by Government. As we were going to spend the night
in a light-house, we wished to make the most of so novel an experience, and therefore told
our host that we should like to accompany him when he went to light up. At rather early candle-light
he lighted a small Japan lamp, allowing it to smoke rather more than we like on ordinary occasions,
and told us to follow him. He led the way first through his bedroom, which was placed nearest
to the light-house, and then through a long, narrow, covered passage-way, between whitewashed
walls, like a prison-entry, into the lower part of the light-house, where many great butts
of oil were arranged around; thence we ascended by a winding and open iron stairway, with a
steadily increasing scent of oil and lamp-smoke, to a trap-door in an iron floor, and through
this into the lantern. It was a neat building, with everything in apple-pie order, and no danger
of anything rusting there for want of oil. The light consisted of fifteen argand lamps, placed
within smooth concave reflectors twenty-one inches in diameter, and arranged in two horizontal
circles one above the other, facing every way excepting directly down the Cape. These were
surrounded, at a distance of two or three feet, by large plate-glass windows, which defied
the storms, with iron sashes, on which rested the iron cap. All the iron work, except the floor,
was painted white. And thus the light-house was completed. We walked slowly round in that narrow
space as the keeper lighted each lamp in succession, conversing with him at the same moment
that many a sailor on the deep witnessed the lighting of the Highland Light. His duty was to
fill and trim and light his lamps, and keep bright the reflectors. He filled them every morning,
and trimmed them commonly once in the course of the night. He complained of the quality of
the oil which was furnished. This house consumes about eight hundred gallons in a year, which
cost not far from one dollar a gallon; but perhaps a few lives would be saved, if better oil
were provided. Another light-house keeper said that the same proportion of winter-strained
oil was sent to the southernmost light-house in the Union as to the most northern. Formerly,
when this light-house had windows with small and thin panes, a severe storm would sometimes
break the glass, and then they were obliged to put up a wooden shutter in haste to save their
lights and reflectors,--and sometimes in tempests, when the mariner stood most in need of their
guidance, they had thus nearly converted the light-house into a dark-lantern, which emitted
only a few feeble rays, and those commonly on the land or lee side. He spoke of the anxiety
and sense of responsibility which he felt in cold and stormy nights in the winter, when he
knew that many a poor fellow was depending on him, and his lamps burned dimly, the oil being
chilled. Sometimes he was obliged to warm the oil in a kettle in his house at midnight, and
fill his lamps over again,--for he could not have a fire in the light-house, it produced such
a sweat on the windows. His successor told me that he could not keep too hot a fire in such
a case. All this because the oil was poor. A government lighting the mariners on its wintry
coast with summer-strained oil, to save expense! That were surely a summer-strained mercy!

This keeper's successor, who kindly entertained me the next year, stated that one extremely
cold night, when this and all the neighboring lights were burning summer oil, but he had been
provident enough to reserve a little winter oil against emergencies, he was waked up with anxiety,
and found that his oil was congealed, and his lights almost extinguished; and when, after many
hours' exertion, he had succeeded in replenishing his reservoirs with winter oil at the wick-end,
and with difficulty had made them burn, he looked out, and found that the other lights in the
neighborhood, which were usually visible to him, had gone out, and he heard afterward that
the Pamet River and Billingsgate Lights also had been extinguished.

Our host said that the frost, too, on the windows caused him much trouble, and in sultry summer
nights the moths covered them and dimmed his lights; sometimes even small birds flew against
the thick plate-glass, and were found on the ground beneath in the morning with their necks
broken. In the spring of 1855 he found nineteen small yellow-birds, perhaps goldfinches or
myrtle-birds, thus lying dead around the light-house; and sometimes in the fall he had seen
where a golden plover had struck the glass in the night, and left the down and the fatty part
of its breast on it.

Thus he struggled, by every method, to keep his light shining before men. Surely the light-house
keeper has a responsible, if an easy, office. When his lamp goes out, he goes out; or, at most,
only one such accident is pardoned.

I thought it a pity that some poor student did not live there, to profit by all that light,
since he would not rob the mariner. "Well," he said, "I do sometimes come up here and read
the newspaper when they are noisy down below." Think of fifteen argand lamps to read the newspaper
by! Government oil!--light enough, perchance, to read the Constitution by! I thought that he
should read nothing less than his Bible by that light. I had a classmate who fitted for college
by the lamps of a light-house, which was more light, methinks, than the University afforded.

When we had come down and walked a dozen rods from the light-house, we found that we could
not get the full strength of its light on the narrow strip of land between it and the shore,
being too low for the focus, and we saw only so many feeble and rayless stars; but at forty
rods inland we could see to read, though we were still indebted to only one lamp. Each reflector
sent forth a separate "fan" of light: one shone on the windmill, and one in the hollow, while
the intervening spaces were in shadow. This light is said to be visible twenty nautical miles
and more, to an observer fifteen feet above the level of the sea. We could see the revolving
light at Race Point, the end of the Cape, about nine miles distant, and also the light on Long
Point, at the entrance of Provincetown Harbor, and one of the distant Plymouth Harbor Lights,
across the Bay, nearly in a range with the last, like a star in the horizon. The keeper thought
that the other Plymouth Light was concealed by being exactly in a range with the Long Point
Light. He told us that the mariner was sometimes led astray by a mackerel-fisher's lantern,
who was afraid of being run down in the night, or even by a cottager's light, mistaking them
for some well-known light on the coast,--and, when he discovered his mistake, was wont to curse
the prudent fisher or the wakeful cottager without reason.

Though it was once declared that Providence placed this mass of clay here on purpose to erect
a light-house on, the keeper said that the light-house should have been erected half a mile
farther south, where the coast begins to bend, and where the light could be seen at the same
time with the Nauset Lights, and distinguished from them. They now talk of building one there.
It happens that the present one is the more useless now, so near the extremity of the Cape,
because other light-houses have since been erected there.

Among the many regulations of the Light-House Board, hanging against the wall here, many of
them excellent, perhaps, if there were a regiment stationed here to attend to them, there is
one requiring the keeper to keep an account of the number of vessels which pass his light during
the day. But there are a hundred vessels in sight at once, steering in all directions, many
on the very verge of the horizon, and he must have more eyes than Argus, and be a good deal
farther-sighted, to tell which are passing his light. It is an employment in some respects
best suited to the habits of the gulls which coast up and down here and circle over the sea.

I was told by the next keeper, that on the eighth of June following, a particularly clear and
beautiful morning, he rose about half an hour before sunrise, and, having a little time to
spare, for his custom was to extinguish his lights at sunrise, walked down toward the shore
to see what he might find. When he got to the edge of the bank, he looked up, and, to his astonishment,
saw the sun rising, and already part way above the horizon. Thinking that his clock was wrong,
he made haste back, and, though it was still too early by the clock, extinguished his lamps,
and when he had got through and come down, he looked out of the window, and, to his still greater
astonishment, saw the sun just where it was before, two-thirds above the horizon. He showed
me where its rays fell on the wall across the room. He proceeded to make a fire, and when he
had done, there was the sun still at the same height. Whereupon, not trusting to his own eyes
any longer, he called up his wife to look at it, and she saw it also. There were vessels in
sight on the ocean, and their crews, too, he said, must have seen it, for its rays fell on
them. It remained at that height for about fifteen minutes by the clock, and then rose as usual,
and nothing else extraordinary happened during that day. Though accustomed to the coast, he
had never witnessed nor heard of such a phenomenon before. I suggested that there might have
been a cloud in the horizon invisible to him, which rose with the sun, and his clock was only
as accurate as the average; or perhaps, as he denied the possibility of this, it was such a
looming of the sun as is said to occur at Lake Superior and elsewhere.

He certainly must be a son of Aurora to whom the sun looms, when there are so many millions
to whom it glooms rather, or who never see it till an hour after it has risen. But it behooves
us old stagers to keep our lamps trimmed and burning to the last, and not trust to the sun's
looming.

This keeper remarked that the centre of the flame should be exactly opposite the centre of
the reflectors, and that accordingly, if he was not careful to turn down his wicks in the morning,
the sun falling on the reflectors on the south side of the building would set fire to them,
like a burning-glass, in the coldest day, and he would look up at noon and see them all lighted!
When your lamp is ready to give light, it is readiest to receive it, and the sun will light
it. His successor said that he had never known them to blaze in such a case, but merely to smoke.

I saw that this was a place of wonders. In a sea-turn or shallow fog, while I was there the
next summer, it being clear overhead, the edge of the bank twenty rods distant appeared like
a mountain-pasture in the horizon. I was completely deceived by it, and I could then understand
why mariners sometimes ran ashore in such cases, especially in the night, supposing it to be
far away, though they could see the land. Once since this, being in a large oyster-boat two
or three hundred miles from here, in a dark night, when there was a thin veil of mist on land
and water, we came so near to running on to the land before our skipper was aware of it, that
the first warning was my hearing the sound of the surf under my elbow. I could almost have
jumped ashore, and we were obliged to go about very suddenly to prevent striking. The distant
light for which we were steering, supposing it a light-house five or six miles off, came through
the cracks of a fisherman's bunk not more than six rods distant.

The keeper entertained us handsomely in his solitary little ocean-house. He was a man of singular
patience and intelligence, who, when our queries struck him, rang as clear as a bell in response.
The light-house lamps a few feet distant shone full into my chamber, and made it as bright
as day, so I knew exactly how the Highland Light bore all that night, and I was in no danger
of being wrecked. Unlike the last, this was as still as a summer night. I thought, as I lay
there, half awake and half asleep, looking upward through the window at the lights above my
head, how many sleepless eyes from far out on the ocean-stream--mariners of all nations spinning
their yarns through the various watches of the night--were directed toward my couch.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The light-house has since been rebuilt, and shows a Fresnel light.

ENGLISH AUTHORS IN FLORENCE.

Bella Firenze, "Flower of all Cities and City of all Flowers," is not only the garden of Italy's
intellect, but the hot-house to which many a Northern genius has been transplanted. The house
where Milton resided is still pointed out and held sacred by his venerators; and Casa Guidi,
gloomier and grayer now that the grand light has gone out of it, is of especial interest to
every cultivated traveller. A gratified smile, born of sorrow, passes over the stranger's face,
as he reads the inscription upon the tablet that makes Casa Guidi historical,--a tablet inserted
by the municipality of Florence as a grateful tribute to the memory of a truly great woman,
great enough to love Truth "more than Plato and Plato's country, more than Dante and Dante's
country, more even than Shakspeare and Shakspeare's country."

Tradition says that years ago Casa Guidi was the scene of several dark deeds; and after having
wandered through the great rooms, for the most part perpetually in shadow, one's imagination
puts full faith in a time-worn story. Whatever may have been the stain left upon the old palace
by the Guidi, it has been removed by an alien woman,--by her who sat "By the Fireside," and
toiled unceasingly for the good of man and the love, of God.

The unsuspected prophecy of "One Word More" has been fulfilled,--

    "Lines I write the first time and the last time,"--

for Destiny has given to them other than the author's meaning: because of this destiny, we
pass from the shadow of Casa Guidi with bowed head.

It is a beautiful custom, this of Italy, marking the spot where noble souls have lived or died,
that coming generations may learn to venerate the greatness of the past, and become inspired
thereby to exalted deeds in the present. We of America, eagerly busy jostling the elbows of
To-Day, have not even a turn of the head for the haunts of dead men whom we honor. No tablets
mark their homes; and indeed they would be of little profit to a country where mementos of
"lang syne" are never spared, when the requirements of commerce or of real estate issue their
universal mandate, "Destroy and build anew!" America shakes all dust from off her feet, even
that of great men's bones; though indeed Boston, which is not wanting in esteem for its respectable
antecedents, has made a feeble attempt to do honor to the Father of his Country. The tablet
is but an attempt, however, which has become thoroughly demoralized by keeping company with
attorneys' signs and West-India goods; the bouquet of law-papers, plus coffee and tobacco,
has deprived the salt of its savor.

Far different is it in Florence, where the identical houses still remain. Almost every street
bears the record of a great man. To walk there is to hold intimate communion with departed
genius. What traveller has not mused before Dante's stone? The most careless cannot pass Palazzo
Buonarotti without giving a thought to Michel Angelo and his art. An afternoon's stroll along
the Lung' Arno to drink in the warmth of an Italian sunset is made doubly suggestive by a glance
at the house where set another sun when the Piedmontese poet-patriot, Alfieri, died. We never
passed through the Via Guicciardini, as clingy, musty, and gloomy as the writings of the old
historian whose palace gives name to the street, without looking up at the weather-beaten casa
dedicated to the memory of that wonderfully subtile Tuscan, Niccolò Macchiavelli; and by dint
of much looking we fancied ourselves drawn nearer to the Florence of 1500, and read "The Prince,"
with a gusto and an apprehension which nothing but the old house could have inspired. This,
at least, we believed, and our faith in the fancy remains unshaken, now that Mr. Denton, the
geologist, has expounded the theory of "Psychometry," which he tells us is the divination of
soul through the contact of matter with a psychometrical mind. Had we in those days been better
versed in this theory of "the soul of things," we should have made a gentle application of
forehead to the door-step of Macchiavelli's mundane residence, and doubtless have arisen thoroughly
pervaded with the true spirit of the man whose feet were familiar to a stone now desecrated
by wine-flasks, onions, cabbages, and contadini.

Mrs. Somerville, to whom the world is indebted for several developments in physical geography,
is almost as fixed a Florentine celebrity as the Palazzo Vecchio; and Villino Trollope has
become endeared to many forestieri from the culture and hospitality of its inmates. It is the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Adolphus Trollope, earnest contributors to the literature
of England, and active friends of Cavour's Italy. Justice prompts us to say that no other foreigner
of the present day has done so much as Mr. Trollope to familiarize the Anglo-Saxon mind with
the genius and aspirations of Italy. A constant writer for the liberal press of London, Mr.
Trollope is also the author of several historical works that have taken their place in a long-neglected
niche. "A Decade of Italian Women" has woven new interest around ten females of renown, while
his later works of "Filippo Strozzi" and "Paul the Pope and Paul the Friar," have thrown additional
light upon three vigorous historical characters, as well as upon much Romish iniquity. "Tuscany
in '48 and '59" is the most satisfactory book of the kind that has been published, Mr. Trollope's
constant residence in Florence having made him perfectly familiar with the actual status of
Tuscany during these important eras in her history. The old saying, "Merit is its own reward,"
to which it is usually necessary to give a Pre-Raphaelite interpretation, has had a broader
signification to Mr. Trollope, whose efforts in Italy's behalf have been appreciated by the
Rè Galantuomo, Victor Emanuel, by whom he has been knighted with the Order of Saints Maurice
and Lazarus. As the decoration was entirely unsolicited,--for Mr. Trollope is a true democrat,--and
as he is nearly, if not quite, the only Englishman similarly honored, the compliment is as
pleasing as it is flattering.

Historian though he be, Mr. Trollope has more recently made his mark as a novelist. "La Beata,"
an Italian story, published three years ago, is greatly praised by London critics, one strong
writer describing it as a "beatific book." The character of the heroine has been drawn with
a pathos rare and heart-rending, nor can the reader fail to be impressed with the nobility
of the mind that could conceive of such exceeding purity and self-sacrifice in woman. Mr. Trollope's
later novels of "Marietta" and "Giulio Malatesta" have also met with great success, and, although
not comparable with "La Beata," give most accurate pictures of Italian life and manners,--and
truth is ordinarily left out of Anglo-Italian stories. "Giulio Malatesta" is of decided historical
interest, giving a side-view of the Revolution of '48 and of the Battle of Curtatone, which
was fought so nobly by Tuscan volunteers and students. It is a matter of regret to all lovers
of Italy that Mr. Trollope's works have not been republished in America, as no American has
labored in the same field, nor do Americans en masse possess very correct ideas of a country
whose great future is creating an additional interest in her promising present and wonderful
past. Mr. Trollope's "History of Florence," upon which he is now at work, will be his most
valuable contribution to literature.

Mrs. Trollope, who from her polyglot accomplishments may be called a many-sided woman, has
been, both by Nature and education, most liberally endowed with intellectual gifts. The depressing
influence of continual invalidism alone prevents her from taking that literary position which
good health and application would soon secure for her. Nevertheless, Mrs. Trollope has for
several years been a constant correspondent of the London "Athenæum," and in all seasons Young
Italy has found an enthusiastic friend in her. Many are the machinations of the clerical and
Lorraine parties that have been revealed to the English reader by Mrs. Trollope; and when,
some time since, her letters upon the "Social Aspects of Revolution in Italy," were collected
and published in book-form, they met with the cordial approbation of the critics. These letters
are marked by purity of style, quaint picturesqueness, and an admirable couleur locale. As
a translator, Mrs. Trollope possesses very rare ability. Her natural aptitude for language
is great. A residence in Italy of seventeen years has made her almost as familiar with the
mother-tongue of Dante as with that of Shakspeare; and we make bold to say that Giovan Battista
Niccolini's most celebrated tragedy, "Arnaldo da Brescia," loses none of its Italian lustre
in Mrs. Trollope's setting of English blank-verse,--Ah! we cannot soon forget the first time
that we saw this same Niccolini, the greatest poet of modern Italy! It was in the spring of
1860, upon the memorable inauguration of the Theatre Niccolini,--ci-devant Cocomero, (water-melon,)--when
Florence gave its first public reception to the poet, who was not only Tuscan, but Italianissimo,
and rendered more than a passing homage to his name in the new baptism of a charming theatre.
Since 1821 Niccolini had been fighting for the good cause with pen as cutting as Damascus blade;
the goal was not reached until the veteran of eighty-two, paralyzed in body and mind, was borne
into the presence of an enthusiastic audience to receive its bravos. So lately as the previous
year the Ducal government had suppressed a demonstration in Niccolini's favor: this night must
have atoned for the persecutions of the past. It was then that we heard Rossi, the great actor,
declaim entire scenes from "Arnold of Brescia"; and though he stood before us as plain citizen
Rossi in a lustrous suit of broadcloth, the fervor and intensity with which he interpreted
the master-thoughts of Niccolini forced the audience to see in him the embodiment of the grand
patriot-priest. We have witnessed but few greater dramatic performances; never have we been
present at so impassioned a political demonstration. Freedom of speech was but just born to
Italy, and Florence drew a long breath in the presence of a national teacher. Eighteen months
later Niccolini gazed for the last time upon Italy, and saw the fulfilment of his prophecies.

We wish there were a copy of Mrs. Trollope's translation of "Arnaldo da Brescia" in America,
that we might make noble extracts, and cause other eyes to glisten with the fire of its passion.
We can recall but one passage, a speech made by Arnaldo to the recreant Pope Adrian. It is
as strong and fearless as was the monk himself.

    "Adrian, thou dost deceive thyself. The dread
    Of Roman thunderbolts is growing faint,
    And Reason slacks the bonds thou'dst have eternal.
    She'll break them; yet she is not well awake.
    Already human thought so far rebels,
    That tame it thou canst not: Christ cries to it,
    As to the sick of old, 'Arise and walk!'
    'T will trample thee, if thou precede it not:
    The world has other truths than of the altar,
    Nor will endure a church which hideth Heaven.
    Thou wast a shepherd,--be a father: men
    Are tired at last of being called a flock;
    Too long have they stood trembling in the path
    Smit by your pastoral staff. Why in the name
    Of Heaven dost trample on the race of man,
    The latest offspring of the Thought Divine?"

It is not strange that the emancipated Florentines grow wild with delight when Rossi declaimed
such heresy as this.

Mrs. Trollope's later translations of the patriotic poems of Dall' Ongaro, the clever Venetian,
are very spirited; nor is she unknown as an original poet. "Baby Beatrice," a poem inscribed
to her own fairy child, that appeared several years ago in "Household Words," is exceedingly
charming; and one of her fugitive pieces, having naturally transformed itself into "la lingua
del sì," has ever been attributed to her friend Niccolini.

It was as a poet that Mrs. Trollope, then Miss Garrow, began to write,--and indeed she may
be called a protégée of Walter Savage Landor, for through his encouragement and instrumentality
she first made her appearance in print as a contributor to Lady Blessington's "Book of Beauty."
There are few who remember the old lion-poet's lines to Miss Garrow, and their insertion here
cannot be considered mal-à-propos.

"TO THEODOSIA GARROW.

    "Unworthy are these poems of the lights
    That now run over them, nor brief the doubt
    In my own breast if such should interrupt
    (Or follow so irreverently) the voice
    Of Attic men, of women such as thou,
    Of sages no less sage than heretofore,
    Of pleaders no less eloquent, of souls
    Tender no less, or tuneful, or devout.
    Unvalued, even by myself, are they,--
    Myself, who reared them; but a high command
    Marshalled them in their station; here they are;
    Look round; see what supports these parasites.
    Stinted in growth and destitute of odor,
    They grow where young Ternissa held her guide,
    Where Solon awed the ruler; there they grow,
    Weak as they are, on cliffs that few can climb.
    None to thy steps are inaccessible,
    Theodosia! wakening Italy with song
    Deeper than Filicaia's, or than his,
    The triple deity of plastic art.
    Mindful of Italy and thee, fair maid!
    I lay this sear, frail garland at thy feet."

Mrs. Trollope is still a young woman, and it is sincerely to be hoped that improved health
will give her the proper momentum for renewed exertions in a field where nobly sowing she may
nobly reap.

Ah, this Villino Trollope is quaintly fascinating, with its marble pillars, its grim men in
armor, starting like sentinels from the walls, and its curiosities greeting you at every step.
The antiquary revels in its majolica, its old Florentine bridal chests and carved furniture,
its beautiful terra-cotta of the Virgin and Child by Orgagna, its hundred oggetti of the Cinque
Cento. The bibliopole grows silently ecstatic, as he sinks quietly into a mediaeval chair and
feasts his eyes on a model library, bubbling over with five thousand rare books, many wonderfully
illuminated and enriched by costly engravings. To those who prefer (and who does not?) an earnest
talk with the host and hostess on politics, art, religion, or the last new book, there is the
cozy laisser-faire study where Miss Puss and Bran, the honest dog, lie side by side on Christian
terms, and where the sunbeam Beatrice, when very beaming, will sing to you the canti popolari
of Tuscany, like a young nightingale in voice, though with more than youthful expression. Here
Anthony Trollope is to be found, when he visits Florence; and it is no ordinary pleasure to
enjoy simultaneously the philosophic reasoning of Thomas Trollope,--looking half Socrates and
half Galileo,--whom Mrs. Browning was wont to call "Aristides the Just," and the almost boyish
enthusiasm and impulsive argumentation of Anthony Trollope, who is a noble specimen of a thoroughly
frank and loyal Englishman. The unity of affection existing between these brothers is as charming
as it is rare.

Then in spring, when the soft winds kiss the budding foliage and warm it into bloom, the beautiful
terrace of Villino Trollope is transformed into a reception-room. Opening upon a garden, with
its lofty pillars, its tessellated marble floor, its walls inlaid with terra-cotta, bas-reliefs,
inscriptions, and coats-of-arms, with here and there a niche devoted to some antique Madonna,
the terrace has all the charm of a campo santo without the chill of the grave upon it; or were
a few cowled monks to walk with folded arms along its space, one might fancy it the cloister
of a monastery. And here of a summer's night, burning no other lights than the stars, and sipping
iced lemonade, one of the specialties of the place, the intimates of Villino Trollope sit and
talk of Italy's future, the last mot from Paris, and the last allocution at Rome.

Many charming persons have we met at the Villino, the recollection of whom is as bright and
sunny to us as a June day,--persons whose lives and motive-power have fully convinced us that
the world is not quite as hollow as it is represented, and that all is not vanity of vanities.
In one corner we have melodiously wrangled, in a tempo decidedly allegro vivace, with enthusiastic
Mazzinians, who would say clever, sharp, cruel things of Cavour, the man of all men to our
way of thinking, "the one man of three men in all Europe," according to Louis Napoleon. Gesticulation
grew as rampant at the mention of the French Emperor, who was familiarly known as "quel volpone,"
(that fox,) as it becomes to-day in America at the mention of Wendell Phillip's name to one
of the "Chivalry." Politics ran high in Italy in these days of the Renaissance, and to have
a pair of stout fists shaken in one's face in a drawing-room for a difference of opinion is
not as much "out of order" as it would be on this more phlegmatic side of the Atlantic, where
fists have a deep significance not dreamed of by expansive Italians. In another corner we have
had many a tête-à-tête with Dall' Ongaro, the poet, who is as quick at an impromptu as at a
malediction against "il Papa," and whose spirited recitations of his own patriotic poems have
inspired his private audiences with a like enthusiasm for Italian liberty. Not unlike Garibaldi
in appearance, he is a Mazzini-Garibaldian at heart, and always knowing in the ways of that
mysterious prophet of the "Reds" who we verily believe fancies himself author not only of the
phrase "Dio ed il Popolo," but of the reality as well. When Mazzini was denied entrance into
Tuscany under pain of imprisonment, and yet, in spite of Governor Ricasoli's decree, came to
Florence incognito, it was Dall' Ongaro who knew his hiding-place, and who conferred with him
much to the disgust and mortification of the Governor and his police, who were outwitted by
the astute republican. Mazzini is an incarnation of the Sub Rosa, and we doubt whether he could
live an hour, were it possible to fulminate a bull for the abolition of intrigue and secret
societies. Dall' Ongaro was a co-laborer of Mazzini's in Rome in '48; and when the downfall
of the Republic forced its partisans to seek safety in exile, he travelled about Europe with
an American passport. "I could not be an Italian," he said to us, "and I became, ostensibly,
the next best thing, a citizen of the United States. I sought shelter under a republican flag."

It was at Villino Trollope that we first shook hands with Colonel Peard,--"l'Inglese con Garibaldi,"
as the Italians used to call him,--about whose exploits in sharp-shooting the newspapers manufactured
such marvellous stories. Colonel Peard assured us that he never did keep a written account
of the men he killed, for we were particular in our inquiries on this interesting subject;
but we know that as a volunteer he fought under Garibaldi throughout the Lombard campaign and
followed his General into Sicily, where, facing the enemy most manfully, Garibaldi promoted
him from the rank of Captain to that of Lieutenant-Colonel. It is good to meet a person like
Colonel Peard,--to see a man between fifty and sixty years of age, with noble head and gray
hair and a beard that any patriarch might envy surmounting a figure of fine proportions endowed
with all the robustness of healthy maturity,--to see intelligence and years and fine appearance
allied to great amiability and a youthful enthusiasm for noble deeds, an enthusiasm which was
ready to give blood and treasure to the cause it espoused from love. Such a reality is most
exhilarating and delightful, a fact that makes us take a much more hopeful view of humanity.
We value our photograph of Colonel Peard almost as highly as though the picturesque poncho
and its owner had seen service in America instead of Italy. His battle-cry is ours,--"Liberty!"

There, too, we met Frances Power Cobbe, author of that admirable book, "Intuitive Morals."
In her preface to the English edition of Theodore Parker's works, of which she is the editor,
Miss Cobbe has shown herself as large by the heart as she is by the head. That sunny day in
Florence, when she, one of a chosen band, followed the great Crusader to his grave, is a sad
remembrance to us, and it seemed providentially ordained that the apostle who had loved the
man's soul for so many years should be brought face to face with the man before that soul put
on immortality. Great was Miss Cobbe's interest in the bust of Theodore Parker executed by
the younger Robert Hart from photographs and casts, and which is without doubt the best likeness
of Parker that has yet been taken. Its merits as a portrait-bust have never been appreciated,
and the artist, whose sad death occurred two years ago, did not live to realize his hope of
putting it into marble. The clay model still remains in Florence.

Miss Cobbe is the embodiment of genial philanthropy, as delightful a companion as she is heroic
in her great work of social reform. A true daughter of Erin, she excels as a raconteur, nor
does her philanthropy confine itself to the human race. Italian maltreatment of animals has
almost reduced itself to a proverb, and often have we been witness to her righteous indignation
at flagrant cruelty to dumb beasts. Upon expostulating one day with a coachman who was beating
his poor straw-fed horse most unmercifully, the man replied, with a look of wonderment, "Ma,
che vole, Signora? non è Cristiano!" (But what would you have, Signora? he is not a Christian!)
Not belonging to the Church, and having no soul to save, why should a horse be spared the whip?
The reasoning is not logical to our way of thinking, yet it is Italian, and was delivered in
good faith. It will require many Miss Cobbes to lead the Italians out of their Egypt of ignorance.

It was at Villino Trollope that we first saw the wonderfully clever author, George Eliot. She
is a woman of forty, perhaps, of large frame and fair Saxon coloring. In heaviness of jaw and
height of cheek-bone she greatly resembles a German; nor are her features unlike those of Wordsworth,
judging from his pictures. The expression of her face is gentle and amiable, while her manner
is particularly timid and retiring. In conversation Mrs. Lewes is most entertaining, and her
interest in young writers is a trait which immediately takes captive all persons of this class.
We shall not forget with what kindness and earnestness she addressed a young girl who had just
begun to handle a pen, how frankly she related her own literary experience, and how gently
she suggested advice. True genius is always allied to humility, and in seeing Mrs. Lewes do
the work of a good Samaritan so unobtrusively, we learned to respect the woman as much as we
had ever admired the writer. "For years," said she to us, "I wrote reviews because I knew too
little of humanity." Experience has been much to her: her men are men, her women women, and
long did English readers rack their brains to discover the sex of George Eliot. We do not aver
that Mrs. Lewes has actually encountered the characters so vividly portrayed by her. Genius
looks upon Nature, and then creates. The scene in the pot-house in "Silas Marner" is as perfect
as a Dutch painting, yet the author never entered a pot-house. Her strong physique has enabled
her to brush against the world, and in thus brushing she has gathered up the dust, fine and
coarse, out of which human beings great and small are made. It is a powerful argument in the
"Woman Question," that--without going to France for George Sand--"Adam Bede" and the wonderfully
unique conception "Paul Ferroll" are women's work and yet real. Men cannot know women by knowing
men; and a discriminating public will soon admit, if it has not done so already, that women
are quite as capable of drawing male portraits as men are of drawing female. Half a century
ago a woman maintained that genius had no sex;--the dawn of this truth is only now flashing
upon the world.

We know not whether George Eliot visited Florence con intenzione, yet it almost seems as though
"Romola" were the product of that fortnight's sojourn. It could scarce have been written by
one whose eye was unfamiliar with the tone of Florentine localities. As a novel, "Romola" is
not likely to be popular, however extensively it may be read; but viewed as a sketch of Savonarola
and his times, it is most interesting and valuable. The deep research and knowledge of mediaeval
life and manners displayed are cause of wonderment to erudite Florentines, who have lived to
learn from a foreigner. "Son rimasti" to use their own phraseology. The couleur locale is marvellous;--nothing
could be more delightfully real, for example, than the scenes which transpire in Nello's barber's-shop.
Her dramatis personæ are not English men and women in fancy-dress, but true Tuscans who express
themselves after the manner of natives. It would be difficult to find a greater contrast than
exists between "Romola" and the previous novels of George Eliot: they have little in common
but genius; and genius, we begin to think, has not only no sex, but no nationality. "Romola"
has peopled the streets of Florence still more densely to our memory.

It would seem as though the newly revived interest in Savonarola, after centuries of apathy,
were a sign of the times. Uprisings of peoples and wars for "ideas" have made such a market
for martyrs as was never known before. Could we jest upon what is a most encouraging trait
in present humanity, we should say that martyrs were fashionable; for even Toussaint L'Ouverture
has found a biographer, and Frenchmen are writing Lives of Jesus. Yet Orthodoxy stigmatizes
this age of John Browns as irreligious:--rather do we think it the dawn of the true faith.
It is to another habitué of Villino Trollope, Pasquale Villari, Professor of History at Pisa,
that we owe in great part the revival of Savonarola's memory; and it must have been no ordinary
love for his noble aspirations that led the young Neopolitan exile to bury the ten best years
of his life in old Florentine libraries, collecting material for a full life of the friar of
San Marco. So faithfully has he done his work, that future writers upon Savonarola will go
to Villari, and not to Florentine manuscripts for their facts. This history was published in
1859, and it may be that "Romola" is the flower of the sombre Southern plant. Genius requires
but a suggestion to create,--though, indeed, Mr. Lewes, who is a wonderfully clever man, au
fait in all things, from acting to languages, living and dead, and from languages to natural
history, may have anticipated Villari in that suggestion.

Villino Trollope introduced us to "Owen Meredith," the poet from melody,--one far older in
experience than in years, looking like his poetry, just so polished and graceful, just so sweetly
in tune, just so Gallic in taste, and--shall we say it?--just so blasé! We doubt whether Robert
Lytton, the diplomate, will ever realize the best aspirations of "Owen Meredith," the poet.
Good came out of Nazareth, but it is not in our faith to believe that foreign courts can bear
the rare fruit of ideal truth and beauty.--Then there was Blumenthal, the composer, who talked
Buckle in admirable English, and played his own Reveries most daintily,--Reveries that are
all languor, sighs, and tears, whose fitting home is the boudoirs of French marquises. Blumenthal
is a Thalberg in small.--We have pleasant recollections of certain clever Oxonians, "Double-Firsts,"
potential in the classics and mathematics. A "Double-First" is the incarnation of Oxford, a
masterpiece of Art. All that he knows he knows profoundly, nor does it require an Artesian
bore to bring that knowledge bubbling to the surface. His mastery over his intellect is as
great as that of Liszt over the piano-forte,--it is a slave to do his bidding. He is the result
of a thousand years of culture. A "Double-First" never gives way to enthusiasms; his heart
never gets into his head. Impulse is snubbed as though it were a poor relation; and argument
is carried on by clear, acute reason, independent of feeling. Woe unto the American who loses
his temper while duelling mentally with a "Double-First"! Oxford phlegm will triumph. Of course
a "Double-First" is conservative; he disbelieves in republics and universal suffrage, attends
the Established Church, and won't publicly deny the Thirty-Nine Articles, whatever maybe his
very private opinion of them. He writes brilliant articles for the "Saturday Review," (familiarly
known among Liberals as the "Saturday Reviler,") and ends by being a learned and successful
barrister, or a Gladstone, or both. Genius will rarely subscribe to the Thirty-Nine Articles.
With all his conservatism and want of what the French call effusion, a "Double-First" can be
a delightful companion and charming man,--even to a democratic American.

We well remember with what admiring curiosity the Italians regarded Mrs. Stowe one evening
that she passed at Villino Trollope. "È la Signora Stowe?"--"Davvero?"--"L'autrice di 'Uncle
Tom'?"--"Possibile?"--were their oft-repeated exclamations; for "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is the
one American book in which Italians are deeply read. To most of them, Byron and "Uncle Tom"
comprehend the whole of English literature. However poorly informed an Italian may be as regards
America in other respects, he has a very definite idea of slavery, thanks to Mrs. Stowe. To
read "Uncle Tom's Cabin" aloud in Italian to an Italian audience is productive of queer sensations.
This office an American woman took upon herself for the enlightenment of some contadine of
Fiesole with whom she was staying. She appealed to a thoroughly impartial jury. The verdict
would have been balm of Gilead to long-suffering Abolitionists. So admirable an idea of justice
had these acute peasant-women, so exalted was their opinion of America, which they believed
to be a model republic where all men were born free and equal, that it was long before the
reader could impress upon her audience the fact of the existence of slavery there. When this
fact did take root in their simple minds, their righteous indignation knew no bounds, and,
unlike the orator of the Bird o' Freedom, they thanked God that they were not Americans.

Then----But our recollections are too numerous for the patience of those who do not know Villino
Trollope; and we shut up in our thoughts many "pictures beautiful that hang on Memory's walls,"
turning their faces so that we, at least, may see and enjoy them.

But ere turning away, we pause before one face, now no longer of the living, that of Mrs. Frances
Trollope. Knowing how thoroughly erroneous an estimate has been put upon Mrs. Trollope's character
in this country, we desire to give a glimpse of the real woman, now that her death has removed
the seal of silence.

Frances Trollope, daughter of the Reverend William Milton, a fellow of New College, Oxford,
was born at Stapleton, near Bristol, where her father had a curacy. She died in Florence, on
the sixth of October, 1863, at the advanced age of eighty-three. In 1809 she married Thomas
Anthony Trollope, barrister-at-law, by whom she had six children: Thomas Adolphus, now of Florence,--Henry,
who died unmarried at Bruges, in Flanders, in 1834,--Arthur, who died under age,--Anthony,
the well-known novelist,--Cecilia, who married John Tilley, Assistant-Secretary of the General
Post-Office, London,--and Emily, who died under age.

Mr. Thomas Anthony Trollope married and became the father of a family as presumptive heir to
the good estate of an uncle. The latter, however, on becoming a widower, unexpectedly married
a second time, and in his old age was himself a father. The sudden change thus caused in the
position and fortune of Mr. Trollope so materially deranged his affairs as to necessitate the
breaking-up of his establishment at Harrow-on-the-Hill, near London. It was at this time that
Miss Fanny Wright (whom Mr. and Mrs. Trollope met at the country-house of Lafayette, when visiting
the General in France) persuaded Mrs. Trollope to proceed to America with the hope of providing
a career for her second son, Henry. Miss Wright was then bent on founding an establishment,
in accordance with her cherished principles, at Nashaba, near Memphis, and the career marked
out for Henry Trollope was in connection with this scheme, the fruit of which was disappointment
to all the parties concerned. Mrs. Trollope afterwards endeavored to establish her son in Cincinnati;
but these attempts were ill managed, and consequently proved futile. Both mother and son then
returned to England, the former taking with her a mass of memoranda and notes which she had
made during her residence in the United States. These were shown to Captain Basil Hall, whose
then recent work on America had encountered bitterly hostile criticism and denial with respect
to many of its statements. Finding that Mrs. Trollope's account of various matters was corroborative
of his own, Basil Hall for this reason, as also from friendly motives, urged Mrs. Trollope
to bring out a work on America. "The Domestic Manners of the Americans" was the result, and
so immense was its success that at the age of fifty Mrs. Trollope adopted literature as a profession.

In the eyes of the patriots of thirty years ago Mrs. Trollope committed the unpardonable sin,
when she published her book on America; and certainly no country ever rendered itself more
ridiculous than did ours, when it made the welkin ring with cries of indignation. The sensible
American of to-day reads this same book and wonders how his countrymen lashed themselves into
such a violent rage. In her comments upon America Mrs. Trollope is certainly frequently at
fault, but unintentionally. She firmly believed all that she wrote, and did not romance, as
Americans were wont to declare. When she finds fault with the disgusting practice of tobacco-chewing,
assails the too common custom of dram-drinking, and complains of a want of refinement in some
parts of the country, she certainly has the right on her side. When she speaks of Jefferson's
dictum, "All men are born free and equal," as a phrase of mischievous sophistry, and refers
to his posthumous works as a mass of mighty mischiefs,--when she accuses us of being drearily
cold and lacking enthusiasm, and regards the American women as the most beautiful in the world,
but the least attractive,--we may naturally differ from her, but we have no right to tyrannize
over her convictions. That she bore us no malice is the verdict of every one who knew her ever
so slightly; and her sons, who were greatly subjected to her influence, entertain the kindest
and most friendly sentiments towards the United States.

Mrs. Trollope's works, beginning with the "Domestic Manners of the Americans," published in
1832, and ending with "Paris and London," which appeared in 1856, amount to one hundred and
fourteen volumes, all, be it remembered, written after her fiftieth year. Of her novels perhaps
the most successful and widely known were the "Vicar of Wrexhill," a violent satire on the
Evangelical religionists, published in 1837,--"Widow Barnaby," in 1839,--and "The Ward of Thorpe
Combe," in 1847. "Michael Armstrong," printed in 1840, was written with a view to assist the
movement in favor of protection to the factory-operatives, which resulted in the famous "Ten-Hour
Bill." The descriptions were the fruits of a personal visit to the principal seats of factory-labor.
At the time, this book created considerable sensation.

Two works of travel and social sketches, "Paris and the Parisians," and "Vienna and the Austrians,"
were also very extensively read. With regard to the second we deem it proper to observe that
Mrs. Trollope suffered herself to be so far dazzled by the very remarkable cordiality of her
reception in the exclusive society of Vienna, and by the flattering intimacy with which she
was honored by Prince Metternich and his circle, as to have been led to regard the then dominant
Austrian political and social system in a more favorable light than was consistent with the
generally liberal tone of her sentiments and opinions.

Though late in becoming an author, Mrs. Trollope had at all periods of her life been inclined
to literary pursuits, and in early youth enjoyed the friendship of many distinguished men,
among whom were Mathias, the well-known author of the "Pursuits of Literature," Dr. Nott, the
Italian scholar, one of the few foreigners who have been members of the Della Crusca,--General
Pepe, the celebrated defender of Venice, whom she knew intimately for many years,--General
Lafayette,--and others.

Both before and after she achieved literary celebrity, Mrs. Trollope was very popular in society,
for the pleasures of which she was especially fitted by her talents. In Florence she gathered
around her persons of eminence, both foreign and native, and her interest in men and things
remained undiminished until within a very few years of her death. Even at an advanced age her
mind was ready to receive new ideas and to deal with them candidly. We have in our possession
letters written by her in '54 and '55 on the much-abused subject of Spiritualism, which was
then in its infancy. They are addressed to an American literary gentleman then resident in
Florence, and give so admirable an idea of Mrs. Trollope's clearness of mental vision and the
universally inquisitive tendency of her mind that we insert them at large.--Dec. 21st, 1854,
Mrs. Trollope writes: "I am afraid, my dear Sir, that I am about to take an unwarrantable liberty
by thus intruding on your time, but I must trust to your indulgence for pardon. During the
few minutes that I had the pleasure of speaking with you, the other evening, on the subject
of spiritual visitations, there was in your conversation a tone so equally removed from enthusiasm
on one side and incredulity on the other that I felt more satisfaction in listening to you
than I have ever done when this subject has been the theme. That so many thousands of educated
and intelligent people should yield their belief to so bold a delusion as this must be, if
there be no occult cause at work, is inconceivable. By occult cause I mean, of course, nothing
at all analogous to hidden trickery, but to the interference of some power with which the earth
has been hitherto unacquainted. If it were not taking too great a liberty, I would ask you
to call upon me,... that I might have the pleasure and advantage of having your opinion more
at length upon one or two points connected with this most curious subject." The desired interview
took place, and a week later Mrs. Trollope returned a pamphlet on spiritual manifestations
with the following note: "Many thanks, my dear Sir, for your kindness in permitting me a leisurely
perusal of the inclosed. It is a very curious and interesting document, and I think it would
be impossible to read it without arriving at the conviction that the writer deserves to be
listened to with great attention and great confidence. But as yet I feel that we have no sure
ground under our feet. The only idea that suggests itself to me is that the medium is in a
mesmeric condition; and after giving considerable time and attention to these mysterious mesmeric
symptoms, I am persuaded that a patient liable to such influence is in a diseased state. It
has often appeared to me that the soul was partially, as it were, disentangled from the body.
I have watched the ---- sisters (the well-known patients of Dr. Elliotson) for more than a
year, during which interval they were perfectly, as to the mind, in an abnormal state,--not
recognizing father, mother, or brothers, or remembering anything connected with the year preceding
their mesmeric condition. They learned everything which was submitted to their intellect during
this interval with something very like supernatural intelligence. Emma, another well-known
patient of Dr. Elliotson, constantly described herself, when in a mesmeric state, as 'greatly
better than well,' and this was always said with a countenance expressive of very sublime happiness,--but
as if her hearers were not capable of comprehending it. I shall feel very anxious to hear the
results of your own experience; for it appears to me that you are in a state of mind equally
unlikely to mistake truth for falsehood, or falsehood for truth." Upon receiving a second pamphlet
treating on the same subject, Mrs. Trollope wrote as follows: "The document you have sent me,
my dear Sir, is indeed full of interest. Had it been less so, I should not have retained it
so long. In speaking of a state of mesmerism as being one of disease, I by no means infer that
the mesmeric influence is either the cause or effect of disease, but that only diseased persons
are liable to it. I have listened to statements from more than one physician in great practice
tending very clearly to show that the manifestations of this semi-spiritual state are never
observed in perfectly healthy persons. One gentleman in large practice told me that he had
almost constantly perceived in the last stage of pulmonary consumption a manifest brightening
of the intellect; and children, at the moment of passing from this state to that which follows
it, will often (as I well know) speak with a degree of high intelligence that strongly suggests
the idea that there are moments when the two conditions touch. That the region next above us
is occupied by the souls of men about to be made perfect, I have not the shadow of a doubt.
The puzzling part of the present question is this,--Why do we get a dark and uncertain peep
at this stage of existence, when philosophy has so long been excluded from it? and I am inclined
to say in reply, 'Be patient and be watchful, and we shall all know more anon.'"--Such is the
character of notes that Mrs. Trollope wrote at the age of seventy-five.

Mrs. Trollope realized from her writings the large sum of one hundred thousand dollars; but
generous tastes and a numerous family created as large a demand as there was supply, and kept
her pen constantly busy. She wrote with a rapidity which seems to have been inherited by both
her sons, more particularly by Anthony Trollope. One of her novels was written in three weeks;
another she wrote at the bedside of a son dying of consumption, she being bound by contract
to finish the work at a given time. Acting day and night as nurse, the overtasked mother was
obliged to stimulate her nervous system by a constant use of strong coffee, and betweenwhiles
would turn to the unfinished novel and write of fictitious joys and sorrows while her own heart
was bleeding for the beloved son dying beside her. It was no doubt owing to this constant taxation
of the brain that her intellect was but a wreck of its former self during the last four years
of her life. During this time her condition was but a living death, though she was physically
well. She was watched over and cared for with the most unselfish devotion by her son Thomas
Adolphus and his wife, who gave up all pleasures away from home to be near their mother. The
favorite reading in these last days was her son Anthony's novels.

And Thomas Trollope, writing of his mother's death, says: "Though we have been so long prepared
for it, and though my poor dear mother has been in fact dead to us for many months past, and
though her life, free from suffering as it was, was such as those who loved her could not have
wished prolonged, yet for all this the last separation brings a pang with it. She was as good
and dear a mother as ever man had; and few sons have passed so large a portion of their lives
in such intimate association with their mother as I have for more than thirty years."

This is a noble record for both mother and son. To her children Mrs. Trollope was a providence
and support in all time of sorrow or trouble,--a cause of prosperity, a confidant, a friend,
and a companion.

A grateful American makes this humble offering to her memory in the name of justice.

There is a villa too, near Florence, "on the link of Bellosguardo," as dear from association
as Villino Trollope. It has for a neighbor the Villa Mont' Auto, where Hawthorne lived, and
which he transformed by the magic of his pen into the Monte Bene of the "Marble Faun." Not
far off is the "tower" wherein Aurora Leigh sought peace,--and found it. The inmate of this
villa was a little lady with blue-black hair and sparkling jet eyes, a writer whose dawn is
one of promise, a chosen friend of the noblest and best, and on her terrace the Brownings,
Walter Savage Landor, and many choice spirits have sipped tea while their eyes drank in such
a vision of beauty as Nature and Art have never equalled elsewhere.

What Aurora Leigh saw from her tower is almost a counterpart of what Mrs. Browning gazed upon
so often from the terrace of Villa Brichieri.

Florence without the Trollopes and our Lady of Bellosguardo would be like bread without salt.
A blessing, then, upon houses which have been spiritual asylums to many forlorn Americans!--a
blessing upon their inmates, whose hearts are as large and whose hands are as open as their
minds are broad and catholic!

A TOBACCONALIAN ODE.

    O plant divine!
    Not to the tuneful Nine,
    Who sit where purple sunlight longest lingers,
    Twining the bay, weaving with busy fingers
    The amaranth eterne and sprays of vine,
    Do I appeal. Ah, worthier brows than mine
    Shall wear those wreaths! But thou, O potent plant,
    Of thy broad fronds but furnish me a crown,
    Let others sing the yellow corn, the vine,
    And others for the laurel-garland pant,
    Content with my rich meed, I'll sit me down,
    Nor ask for fame, nor heroes' high renown,
    Nor wine.
    And ye, ye airy sprites,
    Born of the Morning's womb, sired of the Sun,
    Who cull with nice acumen, one by one,
    All gentle influences from the air,
    And from within the earth what most delights
    The tender roots of springing plants, whose care
    Distils from gross material its spirit
    To paint the flower and give the fruit its merit,
    Apply to my dull sense your subtile art!
    When ye, with nicest, finest skill, had wrought
    This chiefest work, the choicest blessings brought
    And stored them at its roots, prepared each part,
    Matured the bud, painted the dainty bloom,
    Ye stood and gazed until the fruit should come.
    Ah, foolish elves!
    Look ye that yon frail flower should be sublimed
    To fruit commensurate with all your power
    And cunning art? Was it for such ye climbed
    The slanting sunbeams, coaxing many a shower
    From the coy clouds? Ye did exceed yourselves;
    And as ye stand and gaze, lo, instantly
    The whole etherealized ye see:
    From topmost golden spray to lowest root,
    The whole is fruit.
    Well have ye wrought,
    And in your honor now shall incense rise.
    The oaken chair, the cheerful blaze, invite
    Calm meditation, while the flickering light
    Casts strange, fantastic shadows on the wall,
    Where goodly tomes, with ample lading fraught
    Of gold of wit and gems of fancy rare,
    Poet and sage, mute witnesses of all,
    Smile gently on me, as, with sober care,
    I reach the pipe and thoughtfully prepare
    The sacrifice.

    O fragile clay!
    Erst white as e'er a lily of old Nile,
    But now imbrowned and ambered o'er and through
    With richest tints and ever-deepening hue,
    Quintessence of rare essences the while
    Uphoarding, as thou farest day by day,
    Thou mind'st me of a genial face I knew.
    At first it was but fair, nought but a face;
    But as I read and learned it, wondrous grace
    And beauty marvellous did grow and grow,
    Till every hue of the sweet soul did show
    Most beautiful from brow and lip and eye.
    And thus, O clay,
    Child of the sea-foam, nursed amid the spray,
    Thy visage changes, ever grows more fair
    As the fine spirit works expression there!
    Blest be the tide that rapt thee from the roar
    And cast thee on the far Danubian shore,
    And blest the art that shaped thee daintily!
    And thou, O fragrant tube attenuate!
    No more in the sweet-blooming cherry-grove,
    Where the shy bulbul plaintive mourns her love,
    Shalt thou uplift thy blossoms to the sky,
    Or wave them o'er the waters rippling by;
    No more thy fruit shall stud with jewels red
    The leafy crown thou fashionedst for thy head.
    Not this thy fate.
    When the swart damsel from thy parent tree
    Did lop thee with thy fellows, and did strip
    From off thee, bleeding, leaf and bud and blossom,
    And bind the odorous fagot carefully,
    And bear thee in to whom should fashion thee
    And set new fruit of amber on thy tip,
    More grateful than the old to eye and lip,
    Ambrosial odors thou didst then exhale,
    Leaving thy fragrance in her tawny bosom.
    Thou still dost hold it. Nothing may avail
    To rob thee of the odorous memory
    Thou sweetly bearest of the cherry-grove,
    Where blossoms bloom and lovers tell their love.
    Bright amber, fragrant wood, enamelled clay,
    Help me to burn the incense worthily!
    Thou fire, assist! Promethean fire, unbound,
    The azure clouds go wreathing round and round,
    Float slowly up, then gently melt away;
    And in their circling wreaths I dimly spy
    Full many a fleeting vision's fantasy.
    Alas! alas!
    How bright soe'er before my view they pass,
    Whether it be that Memory, pointing back,
    Doth show each flower along the devious track
    By which I came forth from the fields of youth,--
    Or bright-robed Hope doth deck the sober truth
    With many-colored garments, pointing on
    To lighter days and envied honors won,--
    Or Fancy, taking many a meaner thing,
    Doth gild it o'er with bright imagining,--
    Alas! alas!
    Light as the circling smoke, they fade and pass,
    What time the last thin wreath hath faintly sped
    Up from the embers dying, dying, dead!
    So earth's best blessings fade and fleet away,--
    Nought left but ashes, smoke, and empty clay.

    Awake, my soul! 't is time thou wert awaking!
    For radiant spirits, innocent and fair,
    Walking beside thee, hovering in the air
    Adown the past, thronging thy future way,
    Wait but thy calling and the thraldom's breaking,
    Which, all unworthily, to sense hath bound thee,
    To bless thy days and make the night around thee
    As bright and beautiful and fair as day.
    Call thou on these, my soul, and fix thee there!
    Name nought divine which hath not godlike in it;
    And if thou burnest incense, let it be
    That of the heart, enkindled thankfully;
    And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out,
    Nor let it poison all thy sight forever;
    Whate'er thou hast to do of worth, begin it,
    Nor leave the issue free to any doubt,
    Forgetting never what thou art, and never
    Whither thou goest, to the far Forever.
    And then shall gentle Memory, pointing back,
    Show blessings scattered all along thy track;
    And bright-robed Hope, shaming thy dreams of youth,
    Shall lead thee up from dreaming to the truth;
    And Fancy, leaving every meaner thing,
    Shall see fulfilled each bright imagining.
    Then shall the ashes of thy musing be
    Only the ashes of thy naughtiness;
    The smoke, the remnant of thy vanity
    And thorny passions, which entangled thee
    Till thou didst pray deliverance; the clay,
    That empty clay e'en, hath a power to bless,--
    Empty for that a gem hath passed away,
    To shine forever in eternal day.

HALCYON DAYS.

    "Peace and good-will."

Who hath enchanted Goliath? He sleeps with a smile on his face, but his secret is hid from
the charmer. The treacherous will looks abashed on the calm of his slumber, and laments, "The
thing that I would I do not!"

Now while the halcyon broods through the Sabbath-days of winter, and, looking from her nest,
sees the waves of a summer calm and brightness,--now while she meditates, with the eggs under
her wings, of a fast-approaching time when she shall teach her song to the little flock that's
coming,--let us also dream. The thing that hath been shall be. Contentment, peace, and love!
Fairy folk shall not personate this blessedness for us. Who is your next-door neighbor? One
face shines serenely before me, and says, "The world is redeemed!" One voice, sounding clear
through all discords, has an echo, fine, true, and eternal, in the midst of the Seraphim's praise.

Therefore, thou blue-winged halcyon, shall I sit beneath the dead sycamore in whose topmost
branches thy great nest is built,--finding death crowned here, as everywhere, with life; here
shall be told the Christmas tale of contentment, peace, and love.

No tremulous tale of sorrow, of wrong endured and avenged; no report of that Orthodox anguish
which, renouncing the present, hopes only by the hereafter; no story of desperate heroic achievement,
or of long-suffering patience, or even of martyrdom's glory. The sea is calm, and the halcyon
broods, and only love is eternal.

Let us not stint thee, as selfishness must; nor shame thee with praise inadequate; nor walk
with shod feet, as the base-bred, into thy palaces; nor as the weak, nor as the wise, who so
often profane thee, but as the loving who love thee, holy Love, may we take thy name on our
lips, and lay our gift on thine altar! It is a Christmas offering, fashioned, however rudely,
from an absolute truth. If thou deem the ointment precious, when I break the unjewelled box,
I pour it on thy feet. Let others crown, I would only refresh thee.

Children play on this white, shining, sandy beach, under the leafless sycamore; they look for
no shade, they would find no shade; there is neither rock, nor shrub, nor evergreen-tree,--nothing
but the white sand, and the dead sycamore, and in the topmost branches the halcyon's great nest.

Is it not a place for children? A little flourish of imagination, and we see them,--Silas,
who beats the drum, and Columbia, who carries the flag, manifest leaders of the wild little
company, mermen and mermaids all; and the music is fit for the Siren, and the beauty would
shame not Venus.

Suppose we stroll home to their fathers, like respectable earth-keeping creatures: the depths
of human hearts have sometimes proved full of mystery as the sea; and human faces sometimes
glisten with a majesty of feeling or of thought that reduces ocean-splendor to the subordinate
part of a similitude.

There is Andrew, father of Silas,--Andrew Swift, says the sign. He dwells in Salt Lane, you
perceive, and he deals in ship-stores,--a husband and father by no means living on sea-weed.
A yellow-haired little man, shrewd, and a ready reckoner. Of a serious turn of mind. Deficient
in self-esteem; his anticipations of the most humble character. A sinner, because fearful and
unbelieving: for what right has a man to be such a man as to inspire himself with misgiving?
But his offences offset each other: for, if he doubted, Andrew was also obstinate. And obstinacy
alone led him into ventures whose failure he expected: as when he laid out the savings of years
in the purchase of goods, wherewith he opened those ship-stores in Salt Lane. Ship-stores!
that sounds well. One might suppose I referred to blocks of marble-faced buildings, instead
of three shelves, three barrels, and their contents! The obstinacy of Andrew Swift was the
foundation of his fortune. Men have built on worse.

His opposite neighbor was one Silas Dexter, a flag- and banner-maker, who went into business
in Salt Lane sometime during that memorable year of Andrew's venture. Apparently this young
man was no better off than Swift, between whom and himself a friendly intercourse was at once
established; but he had the advantage of a quick imagination and a sanguine temperament; also
the manly courage to look at Fortune with respectful recognition, as we all look at royalty,--even
as though he had sometime been presented,--not with a snobbish conceit which would seem to
defy her Highness.

Indeed, he was such a man as would find exhilaration of spirit even in the uncertainties of
his position. The sight of his banners waving from the sign-post, showing all sorts of devices,
the flags flowing round the walls of his shop, enlivening the little dark place with their
many gorgeous colors, sufficed for his encouragement. Utter ruin could not have ruined the
man. He could not have failed with failure. Some sense of this fact he had, and he lived like
one who has had his life insured.

Not a creature looked upon him but was free to the good he might derive. The sparkling eyes,
quick smile, and manly voice, the active limbs and generous heart, seemed at the service of
every soul that breathed. Trashy thought and base utterance could not cheat his soul of her
integrity; the vileness of Salt Lane had nothing to do with him.

And I cannot account for this by bringing his wife forward. For how came he by this wife, except
by the excellence and soundness of the virtue which preferred her to the world, and made him
preferred of her? Still, you see the ripe cherry, one half full, beautiful, luscious, the other
a patch of skin stretched over the pit, worthless and sad to view. This, but for his choice
and hers, might have served as an emblem of Dexter.

She was her husband's partner in a twofold sense: for it was DEXTER & CO. on the sign-board,
and Jessie was represented by the Company. Of that woman I cannot refrain from saying what
was so gracefully said of "the fair and happy milkmaid,"--"All the excellences stand in her
so silently, as if they had stolen upon her without her knowledge."

The effect of these diverse influences, his wife Jessie in the house, and his neighbor Andrew
to the opposite, kept the spirit of Silas Dexter at work like a ploughing Pegasus. He was full
of pranks as a boy, but malice found poor encouragement of him. Andrew was his garden, and
he was Andrew's sun: he shone across the lane with a brightness and a warmth sufficient to
quicken the poorest earth; and the crops he perfected were various, all of the kind that flourish
in heavy soil, but various and good. Do you think the good Samaritan could take the leprosy?

The sort of connection a man is bound to make between the everlasting spirit-world and this
transient mortal state Dexter proved in his humble way. I doubt if spiritualists would have
accepted his service as a medium. He was neither profane nor imbecile; but he sat at the foot
of a ladder the pure ones could not fail to see, and by which they would not disdain to descend.
If they chose to come his way, the white robes would take no taint.

Success attended Dexter with a modest grace, and Swift shared in the good fortune. I do not
say the profits of either shop were forty millions a year. "Keep the best of everything," said
Silas to Andrew; "don't be too hard on 'em; they'll come after they've found your way." And
Swift proved the wisdom of such counsel, and tried to get the better of his grim countenance
while waiting on the customers Dexter directed to his side: gradually succeeding,--proving
down there in Salt Lane the truth of that ancient saying, "Art is the perfection of Nature."

So these two men lived like brothers; and if it was a pleasant thing to listen to Dexter's
jokes and laughter, scarcely less profitable was it to hear Swift praise the flag- and banner-maker
when he was out of sight.

Dexter's popularity had a varied character. Sea-captains and ship-builders, circus-men, aëronauts,
politicians, engineers, target-companies, firemen, the military, deputies of all sorts, looked
over his goods, consulted his taste, left their orders. His interest in the several occupations
represented by the men who frequented his shop, his ingenuity in devising designs, his skill
and expedition in supplying orders, his cheerful speech, and love of talk, and fun, gave the
shopman troops of "friends." He could read the common mass of men at a glance, and he was justifiable
in the devices he made use of in order to bring his customers into the buying mood: for what
he said was true,--they could satisfy themselves in his store, if anywhere.

Dexter understood himself, and Jessie understood him: such folk make no pretences; they are
ineffably real.

"Principles, not Men," was the banner-maker's motto. You might have seen the flag on which
it was painted with a mighty flourish (and very poor result) in his old shop in the old time.
That painting was his first great effort, that flag his first possession; he could not have
parted with it, so he said, and so he believed, for any sum whatever.

"Principles, not Men": he studied that sentiment in all his graver moments, when he chanced
to be alone in his shop,--you may guess with what result, moral and philosophical.

Andrew Swift used to say to his wife, that, when Dexter was studying his thoughts, it was better
to hear him than the minister: and verily he did put time-serving to shame by the distinct
integrity of his warm speech, and his eloquence of action.

Dexter married Jessie the day before he opened his flag-shop. She had long been employed by
his employer, and when she promised to be his, she drew her earnings from the bank, and invested
all with him. This was not prudence, certainly, but it was love. Dexter might have failed in
business the first year,--might have died, you know, in six months, or even in three, as men
do sometimes. It was not prudence; but Jessie--young lady determined on settlements!--Jessie
was looking for life and prosperity, as the honest and earnest and young have a right to look
in a world God created and governs. And if failure and death had in fact choked the path that
promised so fair, clear of regret, free of reproaches, glad even of the losses that proved
how love had once blessed her, she would have buried the dead, and worked for the retrieval
of fortune.

They began their housekeeping-romance back of the shop in two little rooms. Do you require
the actual measurement? There have been wider walls that could contain greatly less.

    "How big was Alexander, pa?
    The people called him great."

They considered the sixpences of their outlay and income with a purpose and a spirit that made
a miser of neither. But there was no delusion indulged about the business. Jessie never mistook
the hilarity of Silas for an indication of incalculable prosperity. Silas never understood
her gravity for that of discontent and envy. They never spent in any week more than they earned.
They counted the cost of living, and were therefore free and rich. "She was never alone," as
Sir Thomas Overbury said of that happy milkmaid, "but still accompanied with old songs, honest
thoughts, and prayers, but short ones." And Dexter loved her with a valiant constancy that
spoke volumes for both.

His days were spent, according to the promise advertised, in endeavors to please the public;
but, oh, if the public that traded with and liked to patronize him, if the young lads and the
old boys who hung about his counters, could have seen him when he shut his shop-door behind
him, and went into the back-room where Jessie and he devised the patterns, where she embroidered
and lived, where she cooked and washed and ironed, where she nursed Columbia, their daughter,
one glance at all this, made with the heart and the understanding, would--ah! might, have been
to some of them worth more than all Dexter's pleasant stones, and all the contents of the shop,
and all the profits the flag-maker would ever make by trading.

For I can hardly believe, though this story be but of "common life," when I take up the newspapers
and glance along the items I am constrained to doubt, that such people as Silas and Jessie
live in every house, in every alley, lane, and street, in every square and avenue, on every
farm, wherever walls inclose those divine temples of which Apostles talked as belonging to
God, which temples, said they, are holy! I can hardly believe that Love, void of fear and of
selfishness, speaks through all our domestic policy, and devises those curious arrangements,
political, theological, social, whose result has approval and praise, it may be, in the regions
of outer darkness.

Dark faces, whose sleekness hides a gulf of waters more dead than those of the dreadful Dead
Sea, rise between me and the honest, brave face of Silas,--dreary flats, whose wastes are not
figured in utter barrenness by the awful African deserts, where ranks upon ranks of women,
like Jessie at least in love and fidelity, must stand, or--"where is the promise of His coming?"

The daughter of Silas and Jessie was called Columbia in honor of some valiant enterprise, nautical
or other, which charmed the patriotic spirit of the father; and as he was not a fighting man
or a speaking man, he offered this modest comment on the brilliant event by way of showing
his appreciation.

Columbia Dexter was a great favorite with the children of Salt Lane for various reasons, and
among them this, that in all parades and processions she supplied the banners. Columbia's friend
of friends was Silas, son of Andrew Swift,--and thus we come among the children of the neighbors.

They were not dependent on Salt Lane for a play-ground. They had the Long Wharf. Ships from
the most distant foreign shores deposited their loads of freightage there, and the children
were free to read the foreign brands, to guess the contents, and to watch the sailors,--free
to all brain-puzzling calculations, and to clothes-soiling, clothes-rending feats, among the
treasures of the ship-hold and the wharf: no mean privileges, with the roar of ocean in their
ears, and great ships with their towering masts before their eyes. They had the wharf for bustle,
confusion, excitement,--and for this they loved it; but the beach that stretched beyond they
had for quiet, and there, for miles and miles, curious shells and pretty pebbles, fish-bones
and crabs and sand, sea-weed fine and fair, and the old sycamores, the old dead trees, in the
tops of whose white branches the halcyon built its nest. Well the children knew the winter
days, so bright and mild, when the brave birds were breeding. Well they knew when the young
kingfisher would begin to make his royal progress, with such safe dignity descending, branch
by branch, until he could no longer resist Nature, but must dash out in a "fine frenzy" for
the bounding waves!

Silas Swift, Dexter's namesake, was a grave, sturdy, somewhat heavy-looking fellow, whose brain
teemed with thoughts and projects of which his slow-moving body offered no suggestion. Whoever
prophesied of them did so at his hazard. Let him play at his will, and the children even were
amazed. But this could not happen every day. Set him at work, and the sanguine were in despair.
This was because, when work must be done, he deliberated, and did the thing that must be; so
that, while misapprehension fretted gently sometimes because of his dulness, he was preparing
for that which was not hoped. Celerity enough when he had come to a decision, but no sign or
token till he had come to that.

The first exercise of his imagination trusted to the inspection of others was in behalf of
Columbia Dexter, with intent to moderate her grief over a dead kitten which they buried in
the sand under the sycamore-tree, the procession carrying banners furled and decorated with
badges of mourning. Silas made a monument then and there in the high noon of a halcyon day:
carved on a pine board which had served for a bier was the face of Tabby, surrounded with devices
intended to represent the duration of her virtues. His work consoled Columbia, and inspired
him to a more ambitious enterprise, namely, the carving of the same in a block of gypsum, which
work of art Dexter obtaining sight of declared that it would have done credit to an artist,
and set it on his mantel-shelf between two precious household cards lettered in gilt as follows
"Union is Strength," and "Principles, not Men."

I suppose no children ever led a happier life,--the special joy of childhood being in sport,
and food, and liberty, and the love of those who own them. They basked in the sun; they were
busy with sport, fretted by no cares; kind words directed them. They lived in the midst of
illusions, like princes, or fairies, or spirits,--like children. They followed about with processions,
training in the rear of every train-band, keeping time with the march of the happy Sunday-schools,
when they had their celebrations. Young Silas could be trusted with the care of Columbia, and
hand in hand, like brother and sister, they went. Especially were they proud, if the procession
carried one of Dexter's flags. Silas, no doubt, had suggested a point of the device, or Columbia
had worked a corner.

When Dexter would go on board ship, or to some lodge, with the flags which had been ordered
of him, in anticipation of voyages and processions, the children often accompanied him. I see
them walking shyly in the rear, and looking up to the father of the little girl with the reverence
he deserved. By-and-by would they grow wise and feel ashamed of this? Will you see the fair
Columbia, whom the captain pats so kindly on the head, smiling broadly when he hears her name,
will you see her, a woman grown, attending her father on such errands? And if you see her not,
will the reason be such as proves her worthy to be old Dexter's daughter? Will you hear her
saying to her friends, as now, "Guess who worked those flowers," while the target-shooters
march past, carrying their blue silk banner, royal with red roses? She and Silas often run
panting in the wake of great processions; they would not for the world miss seeing the wide,
fluttering folds of the Stars and Stripes, or it might be the conquering St. George, or the
transparencies they were all so busy over a day or two ago. Their speed will soon abate, and why?

Human beings are not children forever. Maturity must not manifest itself as childhood does.
Ah, but "Principles, not Men"! Is any truth involved in that beyond what Silas recognizes in
his trade? Is there another reason which shall have power to make Columbia some day stand coolly
on the sidewalk, while her heart is beating fast,--which shall induce her to point out the
mottoes on the banners, and the various devices, to another, without trembling in the voice
or tears in the eye? If ever she shall glide along the streets, she whose early race-course
was Salt Lane, if ever like a lady she shall walk there, will it be at the price of forgetfulness
of all this humble sport and joy,--as a sustainer of feeble "social fictions," and a violator
of the great covenant?

To the boy and girl it was not a question whether all their lives these relations should continue,
and this play go on; but even to them, as children, a question that seriously concerned them,
and in whose discussion they bore serious part, arose.

The old building Dexter occupied was becoming unfit for tenants. It had been patched over and
over, until it was no longer safe, and agents refused to insure it. The proprietor accordingly
determined to pull it down.

A change to a better locality had often been suggested to Dexter; but his invariable reply
was, that "people shouldn't try to run before they were able to walk,--he was satisfied with
Salt Lane and his neighbors": though of late he had made such replies with gravity, thinking
of his daughter.

And now that the necessity was facing him, he met it like a man. He talked the matter over
with his wife, and the claim of their child was urgent in the heart of each while they talked,
and it could not have surprised either when suddenly their hopes met in her benediction. For
Columbia's sake they must find a pleasant place for the new nest, some nook where beauty would
be welcome, and gentle grace, and quiet, and light, and fair colors, and sweet odors would
be possible; so pure and fair a child she seemed to father Dexter, so did the mother's heart
desire to protect her from all odious influences and surroundings, that, when the prospect
of change was before them, it was in reference to her, as well as trade, that the Company would
make it.

Swift was taken into their confidence, and he walked with the pair around the streets one evening
to see the shop Dexter's eyes had fixed on. It was a modest tenement in a crowded quarter,
on whose door and windows "To Let" was posted. Silas had been out house-hunting in the afternoon,
and this place appeared to meet his wishes; he had inquired about the rent, it did not seem
too high for a house so comfortable, and it was probable that by to-morrow night the family
would, after a fashion, be settled within those walls.

They sat down on the door-step and talked about the change with serious gravity, mindful that
the old tenement they were about to leave had sheltered them since their marriage-day, that
they had prospered in Salt Lane, and that the change they were about to make would be attended
with some risk. Andrew Swift sighed dolefully while Jessie or Silas Dexter alluded to these
matters of past experience: it was no easy matter to talk him into a cheerful mood again; but
the brave pair accomplished it on their way home, when certainly either of them had as much
need of a comforter as he.

To have heard them, one might have supposed that no tears would be shed when the tenement so
long occupied by the flag-maker should come down. Old Mortality will not be hindered in his
thinking.

Andrew offered his son Silas to assist his neighbors in the labor of removal, and his wife
came with her service; and the rest of Salt Lane was ready at the door to lend a helping hand,
when it was understood that the life and soul of the lane was going away to High Street.

Dexter's face was unusually bright while the work of packing went on. He knew that for everybody's
sake more light than usual must be diffused by him that day. You know how it is that the brave
win the notable victories, when their troops have fallen back in despair, and would fain beat
a retreat. It is the living voice and the flashing eye, the courage and the will. What is he,
indeed, that he should surrender,--above all, in the worst extremity?

How is death even swallowed up in victory, when the beleaguered spirit dashes across the breach,
and, unarmed, possesses life!

Dexter told Andrew Swift that Silas was worth a dozen draymen, and in truth he was, that day;
for he, and every one, were animated by the spirit of the leader. Courage! at least for that
day, though they dared not look beyond it.

Thus these people went to High Street: into the house with many rooms, four at least; into
the rooms with many windows, and high ceilings, which you could not touch with your uplifted
hand,--rooms whose walls were papered, and whose floors should have carpets, for Dexter said
the house was leased for ten years, and they would make their home comfortable. What ample
scope they had! Many a fancy they had checked before it became a wish in the old quarters,
they were so cramped there, though never in danger of suffocation, Heaven knows. Grandly the
great arch lifted over the old moss-grown roof. But now they need stifle no fancy of all that
should come to them; there was room in the house, and behind it,--yes, a strip of ground in
the rear, and against the brick wall an apricot-tree and a grape-vine! Very Garden of Eden:
was it big enough for the Serpent?

It was a sight to see the happy family while they talked over their possessions.

Over the shop, fronting the street, was a large apartment, by common consent to be used for
parlor and show-room: young Swift was to decorate this, Dexter said, Columbia should be his
helper, and he and his wife would criticize the result. Dexter talked with a purpose when he
made these arrangements, but he kept the purpose secret until the work was done.

In the three windows ornamental flags were hung, which should serve for signs from the street:
this was young Swift's design. In the middle window, Columbia responded, should be the George
Washington flag. Yes, and to the left Lafayette, with Franklin for the right. Even so. Then
above the middle window they secured the gilded American eagle. Oh, the harmony that prevailed
among the young decorators!

Then "Principles, not Men" remained to be disposed of. They did it in such a way that the gilded
motto shone on the white wall. The mantel was a masterpiece of arrangement, and solely after
Columbia's suggestions. There was the monumental cat for a centre-piece, with the more recent
creations of Silas Swift for immediate surroundings, and a banner at either end floating from
the shelf.

You can imagine, if your imagination is genial and kindly, how very queer and fanciful the
room looked with these decorations; and the gentle heart will understand the loving humility,
the pleasure, with which Jessie surveyed all, when the children's work was done.

It was a pretty scene when Dexter came up, sent by Silas for an opinion, while the latter kept
the shop. At first he laughed a little, and exclaimed, while he walked about; then Jessie turned
away, and gave him an opportunity to brush the tears from his eyes unobserved; but presently
she began to circle round him, unconsciously it seemed, till she stood close beside him; then
he took her hand and held it, and she knew what he was thinking, and that he was proud and happy.

"It beats all!" he said more than once. And Columbia was talking of Silas, showing his work,
and repeating his words, till Dexter broke out,--

"We must keep Silas! We can't get along without Silas! He mustn't go back to Salt Lane. I'll
teach him business in High Street."

And the father did not seem to notice when his child slipped away down the stairs, to the shop,
to the lad, who was thinking rather sadly, that, now his work was done, there was no more chance
for him here: she had come to make him smile as much by her own delight as by his satisfaction.

But all this excitement must pass off. And in spite of the general gladness and gratulation,
probably a more lonely, homesick party could not have been easily found than the Dexter family
in their new home.

Dexter could not reproach himself for his removal, as he thought the matter seriously over.
It was a forced removal, and certainly he would have been without excuse, had he gone into
worse quarters instead of better, since better he could afford. It was not extravagance, but
homesickness, that tormented him.

He was too generous, when all was done, to torment his wife with such misgivings as he had;
and erelong the trouble, for want of nursing, died, as most of this life's troubles will, after
their shabby fashion. But, indeed, how can they help it? that, too, is the will of Nature.

And was not Dexter himself, in the new neighborhood as in the old? His customers were still
of the same class. But his surroundings were of a superior character,--there was a better atmosphere
prevailing in High Street, and more light in his house. He did not love darkness better.

Pretty and well-dressed women were to be seen in High Street, and they never, except by mistake
or disaster, wandered through Salt Lane. Standing in his door, and observing them according
to his thoughtful fashion, Dexter remembered that his daughter was growing rapidly into a tall,
handsome girl, and foresaw that she could not always be a child. He saw young misses going
past with their school-books in their hands, and if he followed them with his eyes as far as
eyes could follow, it was not for any reason save such as should have made them love and trust
the man. He was thinking so seriously about his daughter, up-stairs at work with her mother,
embroidering scarfs and banners.

He had only Columbia. She learned fast, when she went with Silas Swift to the school in Salt
Lane,--so they all said, and he knew she was fond of her book. He had no ambition to make a
lady of Columbia,--oh, no! But he was looking forward, according to his nature, and--who could
tell what future might wait on her? He based his expectations for his child on his own experience.
Neither he nor Jessie had ever looked for such good fortune as they had; and a step farther,
must it not be a step higher, and accordingly new prospects?

Prophecy is unceasing. In what does the prescience of love differ from inspiration?

One morning Dexter was sent for by the principal of the seminary of the town, to assist in
the decoration of her school-room preparatory to the examination and exhibition of her pupils.

While at work there, aided by Silas Swift, who was now his assistant in business, and notable
for his skill as a designer and painter and painter of transparencies, and whatsoever in that
line was desired for public festivities, processions, illuminations, and general jubilation
of any character,--while at work in the great school-room, Mr. Dexter was unusually silent.

This was no occasion for, there was no need of, much speaking or of merriment. It was not expected
of him. He was not dealing with, while he worked for, others now, but he was dealt with constantly,
to an extent that confounded and embarrassed him. He did not make the demonstrations people
sometimes do in such a case, but was silent, and half sad. Everything that passed before him
he saw, it made an impression rapid and deep on his mind. The pictures drawn and painted by
the pupils, and hung around the walls for exhibition, the pupils themselves, passing in and
out,--girls of all ages, ladies to look at, all of them,--suggested anew the question, Why
should his daughter be shut off from the privileges of these? He felt ashamed when he asked.
Yet the question would be answered; and without palliation, self-excusing, or retort, he meditated.

Finally he said to Silas Swift, who worked with him in silence broken only by question and
answer that referred merely to their business,--

"Look!"--and his eyes followed a young girl who had been hunting for several minutes among
the desks for a book.

The youth obeyed,--he looked, but seemed not to understand the flag-maker as quickly or as
clearly as was expected of him.

"Columby," said Dexter, with a wink and a nod, that to his mind expressed everything.

"Oh, yes," said Silas, as if he understood.

His penetration was not put to further proof. The mere supposition of his apprehension satisfied
his employer, who could now go on without embarrassment.

"She ought to come to school," said Dexter.

"Oh!" exclaimed Silas, with surprise sufficient to convince the father that the young man had
not attempted to practise a deceit.

"Yes," said Dexter, "she ought, she's old enough,"--as if that were all he had been waiting for.

"I think so," answered Silas Swift, with a decision encouraging to hear, and final as to influence.

"You do? Yes, I ought to afford it, if I lived on a crust to manage the bills. Why not? What's
the difference 'twixt her and the rest, I'd like to know?"

"She could beat the whole batch at her books," said Silas, not doubting that he spoke with
moderation.

"Pretty quick, wasn't she?" said the pleased father. "Yes, I know Columby!"

"And she deserves it."

"Deserves! You don't think I've been waiting to find that out! Well, Sir, put it that way,
I say, Yes, she does deserve it."

Dexter and young Swift, having spoken thus far, thought on in their several directions, with
serious, steady, strong, far-reaching looks into the future.

Thus it was that Columbia Dexter took her place in the great school, where girls, it was said,
were regarded and taught as responsible human beings.

Silas Swift looked so grave, whenever the families mentioned Dexter's resolution, that Columbia,
who had made him repeat already many times his reflections and observations in the school-room
that day when he and her father were employed in its decoration, said to him one morning, when
they happened to be alone together,--

"I'm afraid you don't think well of what we're going to do."

Whereupon he, somewhat proudly for him, answered,--

"I told your father, when he asked me, what I thought, before he had made up his mind."

"What did you say?" she asked,--though she could have guessed correctly, had he insisted upon
it, but Silas was not in the mood.

"I said it should be done," he answered, seriously.

"I should go to school?"

"Yes, it is but right."

"Then why do you look so solemn?"

"You're going away from us."

Her hand was lying quietly in his, when she answered,--

"Going away? I shall see you three times every day. What do you mean?"

"When there was your father and mother and me, 'us four, and no more,' there were not dozens
to think about. You'll have dozens now."

"I hope they will be pleasant," she said, looking away, that he should not see how bright her
eyes were, when his were so grave.

"I hope they will. And I'm sure of it. Never fear. I suppose, too, they must make you like
themselves, some ways. I'd be glad, if I thought you'd make any of them like you."

"How's that?" she asked, half laughing, but she trembled as well. What would honest Silas say
next, he was making such a very grave business out of this school-going?

"True,--modest,--sensible,--respectful,--a lady, ten times more than those they make up so
fine," said he, slowly. And still he held her hand as quietly as if it did not thrill with
quickening pulses; and his speech and composure showed what power of self-control the young
man had,--for he was fearful when he looked forward, anticipating the change this year might
bring to pass in and for Columbia Dexter.

But Dexter and Company looked forward with no forebodings, when they bought the needful school-books,
and saw their daughter fairly occupied with them. They had not been ashamed to reveal their
hopes and fears to the principal. She really listened in a way that made them love her, you
will know how,--as if she had the interest of the girl at heart,--as though she would not deal
so sacrilegiously with their dear child as to paste a few flashing ornaments upon her, worthless
as dead fish-scales, and swear she was covered with pearls. Honest and loving sponsors! virtuous,
confiding parents! they were ready to promise for Columbia; she went from their hands a pure,
industrious, obedient girl, only fourteen; they were sure she would take pride in making good
all deficiencies of her past education. And the woman promised in turn,--chiefly thinking,
I infer, that here at least were responsible paymasters. Why not? She taught for a living.
Only we never like to suppose that poets sing merely for money, or that kings reign for the
sake of the crown; we do not imagine a statesman delights in his martyrdom for eight dollars
a day. I know one woman who teaches because it is her vocation; she loves the work God allows
her. But even the worst school that's used as a hot-bed could not have ruined a plant like
this bearing the Dexter label.

Thus this great fact of the flag-makers' married life transpired,--their child went to school
with the children of gentlemen. Dexter could tell that figure among dozens of girls; under
one modest bonnet was a young face with brown eyes and brown hair, a fair, sweet countenance,
which he loved with a love we will not dwell upon. In the sacred narrative, as in the sacred
temple, is always a place hid from the eyes and the feet of the congregation. We may be all
Gentiles here.

Like responsible sentinels, Dexter and Jessie stood at their post. Like debtors to the great
universe, they made their calling sure. They were living thus peacefully while nations went
to war, while panics taught the people it was not beneath their wisdom to look to the foundations
they built their pride upon,--thus, while great world-events were going on that must concern
every soul under the whole heaven. But never shall the man be lost in the multitude; and was
it not, is it not, of incalculable importance that mortals by their own firesides should learn
to believe in peace and good-will,--else how shall come the universal harmony?

Therefore I dwell thus on Dexter's humble fortunes. Let us not fear too much reverence, too
patient observation; every living creature is one other evidence, speaking his yea or nay,--by
joy or sorrow, shame or honor, testifying to the eternal laws of God.

Sometime during the last six months of Columbia's second year at the seminary among the books
and new associates, Silas Swift had some strange secret experiences, which came to their inevitable
expression when he told Mr. Dexter that he must leave his service. He perceived, he said, that
he could not spend life in a shop,--he must have other employment. He hinted about the sea,
but on that subject was not clear; but he was clear in this,--tired of his life, sick, and
knew not the physician. Was a serpent distilling poison under the apricot-tree?

Dexter was amazed. Silas anticipated everything he said,--was prepared to answer all; and he
answered in a manner that showed the flag-maker something instant and effective must be done.
He talked the matter over accordingly with Andrew Swift, and the two men were at their wits'
end; they did not understand, and knew not what to prescribe for the case, so desperate it
seemed. But Jessie said, "Take him in for a partner, Silas. Let him stand for Company. You
and I are one; so the sign, as it goes, is a fib, you know."

The two men looked at Jessie as if she had been an oracle. This very promotion of their son
had long seemed to Swift and his wife the most desirable issue, of all their expectations;
but they had not thought to look for it these many years. However, Andrew was ready to pay
down, any day, whatever sum Silas Dexter should specify in order that his son might be admitted
to equal partnership.

So they waited together till young Swift came into the little room back of the shop, where
they were all looking for him. They laid their plan before him. What could he do? Neither explain
himself, nor yet defy them all. He surrendered; and the next day the old sign, DEXTER & CO.,
meant what it had not meant the day before. The word of any one of these people was as good
as a bond to the others; therefore no papers of agreement were made out, but Andrew paid down
the money, because that was his way of satisfying himself,--and son Silas was now a partner.

Everybody concerned was so well pleased with this arrangement, that he whose pleasure in it
was specially desired had not the heart to speak his mind, or to resolve further than that
he would do his duty. Indeed, he soon began to believe that he was satisfied.

Young Silas thought he saw good reason for bringing forward his partner's motto into fresh
conspicuity in these days: he believed in that motto, he purposed to work by it, but it was
not merely his policy to give his faith manifestation. He made several efforts, after his own
odd, original style, to impress the pretty Columbia with the significance of that sentiment.
Often his talk with the young lady had the gravity and weight of a moral essay, and she took
it well,--was not impatient,--would answer him as a child, "I know it is so, Silas,"--did not
imagine how much these very lectures cost him, or that he delivered them with as much inward
composure as an orator might be supposed to feel on the brink of a precipice, where the awful
rocks and depths gave echo to his utterance.

Why should he so much disturb himself on her account?--she was so studious, so blameless, what
great need of this oversight he was exercising continually?

Young Alexander, now Midshipman Alexander, once a cabin-boy, promoted step by step on the score
of actual merit and brave service performed,--Midshipman Alexander, son of an old sailor's
old widow, who lived in Salt Lane, to whom Andrew Swift and Silas Dexter and other well-disposed
men had lent a helping hand when poverty had brought her to some desperate strait,--this young
Alexander, who had been coming home once in every three years since his twelfth birthday, and
who in the course of many years of voyages came to look on Dexter's house as his home on land,
after his mother died,--he interfered with the peace of Silas Swift.

He returned from service, after every voyage, a taller, stronger, nobler, wiser, handsomer
man. He had a career open before him; he could not fail of honorable fortune. Every inch a
hero Alexander looked, and was; nobody ever tired of hearing his adventures; no one grew unbelieving,
when he spoke of the future,--all things seemed so possible to him; and then he was really
not possessed of the demon of vanity, the ill-shaped evil monster, but was straightforward,
and earnest, and determined, and capable.

And Dexter, any one could see, was growing dreadfully proud of his Columbia.

Silas Swift felt the sands moving under his feet. He dared not build on a foundation so insecure.
But, oh, he wished himself away from High Street, ten thousand, thousand miles! He fell into
dreaming moods that did not leave him satisfied and cheerful. Surely, other quarters of the
globe had other circumstances than these which kept him to a life so dull, under skies so leaden.
Alas! the waving of the banners did not any more uplift him, leading him on as a good soldier
to battles and victories. He tried to get the better of himself,--after the last visit of this
Alexander, he was tolerably successful; he studied hard, ambitious to keep at least on an equality
of learning with Columbia,--and he went far ahead of her, for certain desperate reasons. But
when Dexter began to treat him with profound respect, as a man of learning should be treated,
according to his notions, the poor young fellow, mortified and miserable, put away his books,
and loathed his false position.

The old time to which through all prosperity Silas clung with fond fears, the dear old time
was all over, he said to himself one day, when Columbia called him up into the parlor, clapping
her hands ever suspecting that the theme might please another less,--there was but one for
him as if he had been a slave, a signal he well understood, and was proud to understand,--when
she asked him to bring the step-ladder, and to help her, for the curtains must come down from
the show-room, it was going to be a parlor now, and no show-room again forever. With heavy
misgivings, with a feeling that they were hard on to "the parting of the ways," Silas obeyed her.

Even so, according to her will was it that the drapery, the flags rich in patriotic portraiture,
the Washington, the Franklin, and the Lafayette, must come down. Some pictures she had painted,
some sketches she had made, were to take their place: her father had insisted on having them
framed, and now they should hang on the walls.

He assisted Columbia without a word of comment. Now the room, she said, would no longer look
hot and uncomfortable. There would be less dust to distract one on the walls. But Silas, the
stickler for old things, thought jealously, "There's always a reason ready to excuse every
change. It's pride that's to pay now,--she's getting ashamed of the shop."

And he remembered the queer look Alexander had cast around him the last time he entered that
room; and he knew that this same Alexander was now expected home daily.

This was the rock, then, against which the sturdy craft of Silas was destined to strike and
go to pieces! This was the whirlpool which should uproot the fairest tree and swing it to final
ingulfing! Dark foreboding! sad fear! his heart was so concerned about Columbia Dexter. Alas
for the halcyon days! it was winter indeed, but a winter worthy of Labrador.

So much she rejoiced in this midshipman's advancement, so proud of it she seemed,--she was
so bold in prophecy where he was concerned, so manifestly fitted to appreciate a hero's career,--she
could talk so long about him without every suspecting that the theme might please another less,--there
was but one end likely, or desirable, for all this.

Then Alexander came. And his popularity waxed, instead of waning. So Silas at last gravely
said to himself, after his sensible, moderate manner of dealing with that unhappy person, "If
she and the young man were only married and settled, there the business would end; he should
no longer be distracted, as he did not deny he had long been, on her account." That admission
was fatal. It compelled him to ask himself sharply why he should be distracted. "What business
was this of his? Did he not, above all things, desire that Columbia should be happy? Must she
not be the best judge of what could make her happiness?" He tried to deal honestly with himself.

This endeavor led him to remark one morning to Columbia,--

"You and Alexander seem to be getting on finely."

"Oh, yes," said she,--"of course."

"I hope you always will," he continued, with a tragic vehemence of wish.

"Thank you, Silas; we shall, I think," she replied, with such an excess of gratitude, so he
deemed it, that the poor fellow attempted no more.

All that day he thought and thought; and at night Silas Swift looked back from a corner of
High Street at a building over whose door a flag was waving, and said to himself, "I was born
as free as others,"--and he walked on silently, with himself for his dismal company.

It made no difference to him where he went, which path he took, he said; but he passed Salt
Lane, and crossed Long Wharf, and walked down the beach, under the old sycamores, and wandered
on. There was another seaport-town some miles down the coast; he was walking in that direction,
but he did not acknowledge a purpose.

How splendid was the night! a night of magnificent constellations, of flashing auroras, of
many meteors; and he saw the comet, which he and Columbia had looked for since its first announcement.
But the heavens might as well have been "hung in black." Chilled by more than the wintry wind,
he went his way. When the sun rose, he was still wandering on. Light, heaven-deep, shone on
land and sea. He sat down to rest, and to order himself for future movements: for the town
was now in sight; in an hour or two he should come to the busy streets; already he could discern
the lofty spires, and the tall masts of the great vessels.

Yes,--he would find a situation on one of those ships. He would go out as supercargo to China,
or India, or Spain. He could get a situation without difficulty, for he was well known in the
town. Then, after he had sailed, word could go back to his father and mother.

So, then, he should go to sea? Of course. It was now arranged,--to foreign ports. He should
see foreign people, and visit ancient places. The strange would have advantage over the familiar.
He did not desire death. He had not that weakness, not being worn out by sickness, and having
never used this life as abusing it. The friends he loved were living; his affections were strong.
No, he could not think of death without a shudder, for Love was on the earth. Yet--what had
he to do with Love? By her own election she was no more to him than a hundred others as good
and fair might prove. Must he be so weak as to go through life regretting? Not he, Silas Swift!

By-and-by he rose up from the sand. I think his face must have resembled, then, the face of
Elijah when the Lord inquied, with the still, small voice, "What dost thou here?" For, as he
arose, he looked back on the waste by which he came,--his face turned homewards. Ay, and his
steps likewise; and not with indecision, as though fearing when he surrendered to himself and
One mightier.

Do they tell us filial reverence is a forgotten virtue? Silas was going home. Child, do you
call him coward? Perhaps he was that,--no, not even yesterday, for the yesterday was capable
of to-day! Do you, then, say, with a doubting smile, "Love! Love!" Yea, verily, Love! The mount
of God takes up your word, so feebly and falsely spoken, and the echo is like thunder whose
fire can destroy. Yea, Love! Two old faces, wrinkled, anxious. Eyes not so bright as once,
dimmer to-day for tears; hair sprinkled with gray. Prayers broken by sobbing; trust disappointed;
confidence violated. Ay, hearts that loved him first, and would surely love him always. Smiles
first recognized of all he has ever seen, that could not change to frowns. They call him with
tremulous tenderness, and the heart of Silas breaks with hearing. Bleed, poor heart, but let
not those old hearts bleed!

The music of the inviting waves is not so soft as the sound of those feeble voices,--the freedom
they promise is not powerful to tempt him; behold the arms that hang powerless yonder, and
the hearts whose tides are more wondrous than those of the sea! The halcyon days shall never
break through eternal ages on him, if he will walk on now in darkness.

"I will arise and go to my father."

The everlasting gates lift up their heads. The full-grown man reënters. Love drove him forth
with stripes; there may have been who rejoiced and thought of fainting Ishmael. But against
no man should this youth's hand be lifted. No son of the bond-woman he. Isaac, not Ishmael.

Love drove him forth with stripes; but a holier drew him home. By his past life's integrity
the man was bound,--by the honor of a good name, that waited to be justified.

He went home to ask forgiveness of LOVE. Not of Youth and Beauty, but of Age and Trust.

He went home to souls which had proved themselves, each one, before the divine messenger in
the hours of his absence.

Back, once more to break on a little circle gathered in an obscure corner of the town, talking
his case over with distressed perplexity: to women disturbed with fears incredible to them,--to
three, save one who did not seem distracted, and who looked around her with something like
triumph, as a prophet might gaze when his word was verified. She was the youngest and the fairest
of them all. How many times she had said, "He can explain. He will come soon. How can you fear
for Silas?"

He went back to the dead silence that fell with his appearing. His mother was first to break
it. With a faltering voice she spoke, but with the authority of maternal love and faith,--through
sobs, but with authority.

"There! there! I told you! Now speak, Silas! quick! Did you find him?"--and, half fainting,
she threw her arms about her son.

The father would fain speak with severity, but he failed in the attempt; he could no longer
harbor his cruel fear, with the lad there before him.

"Silas, what do you mean, Sir? Here's Mr. Dexter's shop broke in, and his till robbed, and
you off, and the Devil to pay! But Columby, there, said you had gone in search of the thief.
Oh! oh!"

"Of course!" cried Dexter, the words rolling out as a cloud of smoke from a conspicuous safety-valve,--"I
knew 't was all right. I'd expect the world to bu'st up as quick as for you to cheat us. I
said it, I did, fifty times." And there Dexter choked, and was silent.

Ay, time for him to return! "Glory to God!" said Silas, and he looked around him, scanning
every face, as a man might scan the faces of accusers.

More than any said or thought he saw in Columbia's eyes. Silent, pale, she merely sat gazing
at him steadfastly. Oh, powers of speech, surrender! It was a gaze that made the young fellow
turn from all, that the spasm of joy might pass, and leave him breath to declare himself like
a man in the hearing of those present.

The words he spoke might not disturb the dreaming halcyon, but they must have brought angels
nearer,--so near that not one there in the little back-room could escape the heavenly atmosphere.

Was Love born in a stable? Is Nature changed since, that a little room back of a shop should
not be heaven itself, and the inmates kings and priests, though without the ermine and ephod?

Shall we sing the halcyon's song?

ON TRANSLATING THE DIVINA COMMEDIA.

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS.

BY CHRISTOPHER CROWFIELD.

XI.

ON THE COLUMBIA RIVER.

I have never known, nor seen any person who did know, why Portland, the metropolis of Oregon,
was founded on the Willamette River. I am unaware why the accent is on the penult, and not
on the ultimate of Willamette. These thoughts perplexed me more than a well man would have
suffered them, all the way from the Callapooya Mountains to Portland. I had been laid up in
the backwoods of Oregon, in a district known as the Long-Tom Country,--(and certainly a longer
or more tedious Tom never existed since the days of him additionally hight Aquinas,)--by a
violent attack of pneumonia, which came near terminating my earthly with my Oregon pilgrimage.
I had been saved by the indefatigable nursing of the best friend I ever travelled with,--by
wet compresses, and the impossibility of sending for any doctor in the region. I had lived
to pay San-Francisco hotel-prices for squatter-cabin accommodations in the rural residence
of an Oregon landholder, whose tender mercies I fell into from my saddle when the disease had
reached its height, and who explained his unusual charges on the ground that his wife had felt
for me like a mother. In the Long-Tom Country maternal tenderness is a highly estimated virtue.
It cost Bierstadt and myself sixty dollars, besides the reasonable charge for five days' board
and attendance to a man who ate nothing and was not waited on, with the same amount against
his well companion. We had suffered enough extortion before that to exhaust all our native
grumblery. So we paid the bill, and entered on our notebooks the following

Mem. "In stopping with anybody in the Long-Tom Country, make a special contract for maternal
tenderness, as it will invariably be included in the bill."

I had ridden on a straw-bed in the wagon of the man whose wife cultivated the maternal virtues,
until I was once more able to go along by myself,--paying, you may be sure, maternal-virtue
fare for my carriage. During the period that I jolted on the straw, I diversified the intervals
between pulmonary spasms with a sick glance at the pages of Bulwer's "Devereux" and Lever's
"Day's Ride." The nature of these works did not fail to attract the attention of my driver.
It aroused in him serious concern for my spiritual welfare. He addressed me with gentle firmness,--

"D' ye think it's exackly the way for an immortal creatur' to be spendin' his time, to read
them novels?"

"Why is it particularly out of the way for an immortal creature?"

"Because his higher interests don't give him no time for sich follies."

"How can an immortal creature be pressed for time?"

"Wal, you'll find out some day. G' lang, Jennie."

I thought I had left this excellent man in a metaphysical bog. But he had not discharged his
duty, so he scrambled out and took new ground.

"Now say,--d' you think it's exackly a Christian way of spendin' time, yourself?"

"I know a worse way."

"Eh? What's that?"

"In the house of a Long-Tom settler who charges five dollars a day extra because his wife feels
like a mother."

He did not continue the conversation. I myself did not close it in anger, but solely to avoid
an extra charge, which in the light of experience seemed imminent, for concern about my spiritual
welfare. On the maternal-tenderness scale of prices, an indulgence in this luxury would have
cleaned out Bierstadt and myself before we effected junction with our drawers of exchange,
and I was discourteous as a matter of economy.

We had enjoyed, from the summit of a hill twenty miles south of Salem, one of the most magnificent
views in all earthly scenery. Within a single sweep of vision were seven snow-peaks, the Three
Sisters, Mount Jefferson, Mount Hood, Mount Adams, and Mount St. Helen's, with the dim suggestion
of an eighth colossal mass, which might be Rainier. All these rose along an arc of not quite
half the horizon, measured between ten and eighteen thousand feet in height, were nearly conical,
and absolutely covered with snow from base to pinnacle. The Three Sisters, a triplet of sharp,
close-set needles, and the grand masses of Hood and Jefferson, showed mountainesque and earthly;
it was at least possible to imagine them of us and anchored to the ground we trod on. Not so
with the others. They were beautiful, yet awful ghosts,--spirits of dead mountains buried in
old-world cataclysms, returning to make on the brilliant azure of noonday blots of still more
brilliant white. I cannot express their vague, yet vast and intense splendor, by any other
word than incandescence. It was as if the sky had suddenly grown white-hot in patches. When
we first looked, we thought St. Helen's an illusion,--an aurora, or a purer kind of cloud.
Presently we detected the luminous chromatic border,--a band of refracted light with a predominant
orange-tint, which outlines the higher snow-peaks seen at long range,--traced it down, and
grasped the entire conception of the mighty cone. No man of enthusiasm, who reflects what this
whole sight must have been, will wonder that my friend and I clasped each other's hands before
it, and thanked God we had lived to this day.

We had followed down the beautiful valley of the Willamette to Portland, finding everywhere
glimpses of autumnal scenery as delicious as the hills and meadows of the Housatonic. Putting
up in Portland at the Dennison House, we found the comforts of civilization for the first time
since leaving Sisson's, and a great many kind friends warmly interested in furthering our enterprise.
I have said that I do not know why Portland was built on the Willamette. The point of the promontory
between the Willamette and the Columbia seems the proper place for the chief commercial city
of the State; and Portland is a dozen miles south of this, up the tributary stream. But Portland
does very well as it is,--growing rapidly in business-importance, and destined, when the proper
railway-communications are established, to be a sort of Glasgow to the London of San Francisco.
When we were there, there was crying need of a telegraph to the latter place. That need has
now been supplied, and the construction of the no less desirable railroad must follow speedily.
The country between Shasta Peak and Salem is at present virtually without an outlet to market.
No richer fruit and grain region exists on the Pacific slope of the continent. No one who has
not travelled through it can imagine the exhaustless fertility which will be stimulated and
the results which will be brought forth, when a continuous line of railroad unites Sacramento
or even Tehama with the metropolis of Oregon.

Among the friends who welcomed us to Portland were Messrs. Ainsworth and Thompson, of the Oregon
Steamship Company. By their courtesy we were afforded a trip up the Columbia River, in the
pleasantest quarters and under the most favorable circumstances.

We left Portland the evening before their steamer sailed, taking a boat belonging to a different
line, that we might pass a night at Fort Vancouver, and board the Company's boat when it touched
at that place the next morning. We recognized our return from rudimentary society to civilized
surroundings and a cultivated interest in art and literature, when the captain of the little
steamer Vancouver refused to let either of us buy a ticket, because he had seen Bierstadt on
the upper deck at work with his sketch-book, and me by his side engaged with my journal.

The banks of the Willamette below Portland are low and cut up by small tributaries or communicating
lagoons which divide them into islands. The largest of these, measuring its longest border,
has an extent of twenty miles, and is called Sauveur's. Another, called "Nigger Tom's," was
famous as the seigniory of a blind African nobleman so named, living in great affluence of
salmon and whiskey with three or four devoted Indian wives, who had with equal fervor embraced
the doctrine of Mormonism and the profession of day's-washing to keep their liege in luxury
due his rank. The land along the shore of the river was usually well timbered, and in the level
openings looked as fertile as might be expected of an alluvial first-bottom frequently overflowed.
At its junction with the Columbia the Willamette is about three-quarters of a mile in width,
and the Columbia may be half a mile wider, though at first sight the difference seems more
than that from the tributary's entering the main river at an acute angle and giving a diagonal
view to the opposite shore. Before we passed into the Columbia, we had from the upper deck
a magnificent glimpse to the eastward of Hood's spotless snow-cone rosied with the reflection
of the dying sunset. Short and hurried as it was, this view of Mount Hood was unsurpassed for
beauty by any which we got in its closer vicinity and afterward, though nearness added rugged
grandeur to the sight.

Six miles' sail between low and uninteresting shores brought us from the mouth of the Willamette
to Fort Vancouver, on the Washington-Territory side of the river. Here we debarked for the
night, making our way, in an ambulance sent for us from the post, a distance of two minutes'
ride, to the quarters of General Alvord, the commandant. Under his hospitable roof we experienced,
for the first time in several months and many hundred miles, the delicious sensation of a family-dinner,
with a refined lady at the head of the table and well-bred children about the sides. A very
interesting guest of General Alvord's was Major Lugenbeel, who had spent his life in the topographical
service of the United States, and combined the culture of a student with an amount of information
concerning the wildest portions of our continent which I have never seen surpassed nor heard
communicated in style more fascinating. He had lately come from the John-Day, Boisé, and Snake-River
Mines, where the Government was surveying routes of emigration, and pronounced the wealth of
the region exhaustless.

After a pleasant evening and a good night's rest, we took the Oregon Company's steamer, Wilson
G. Hunt, and proceeded up the river, leaving Fort Vancouver about seven A.M. To our surprise,
the Hunt proved an old acquaintance. She will be remembered by most people who during the last
twelve years have been familiar with the steamers hailing from New York Bay. Though originally
built for river-service such as now employs her, she came around from the Hudson to the Columbia
by way of Cape Horn. By lessening her top-hamper and getting new stanchions for her perilous
voyage, she performed it without accident.

Such a vivid souvenir of the Hudson reminded me of an assertion I had often heard, that the
Columbia resembles it. There is some ground for the comparison. Each of the rivers breaks through
a noble mountain-system in its passage to the sea, and the walls of its avenue are correspondingly
grand. In point of variety the banks of the Hudson far surpass those of the Columbia,--trap,
sandstone, granite, limestone, and slate succeeding each other with a rapidity which presents
ever new outlines to the eye of the tourist. The scenery of the Columbia, between Fort Vancouver
and the Dalles, is a sublime monotone. Its banks are basaltic crags or mist-wrapt domes, averaging
below the cataract from twelve to fifteen hundred feet in height, and thence decreasing to
the Dalles, where the escarpments, washed by the river, are low trap bluffs on a level with
the steamer's walking-beam, and the mountains have retired, bare and brown, like those of the
great continental basin farther south, toward Mount Hood in that direction, and Mount Adams
on the north. If the Palisades were quintupled in height, domed instead of level on their upper
surfaces, extended up the whole navigable course of the Hudson, and were thickly clad with
evergreens wherever they were not absolutely precipitous, the Hudson would much more closely
resemble the Columbia.

I was reminded of another Eastern river, which I had never heard mentioned, in the same company.
As we ascended toward the cataract, the Columbia water assumed a green tint as deep and positive
as that of the Niagara between the Falls and Lake Ontario. Save that its surface was not so
perturbed with eddies and marbled with foam, it resembled the Niagara perfectly.

We boarded the Hunt in a dense fog, and went immediately to breakfast. With our last cup of
coffee the fog cleared away and showed us a sunny vista up the river, bordered by the columnar
and mural trap formations above mentioned, with an occasional bold promontory jutting out beyond
the general face of the precipice, its shaggy fell of pines and firs all aflood with sunshine
to the very crown. The finest of these promontories was called Cape Horn, the river bending
around it to the northeast. The channel kept mid-stream with considerable uniformity,--but
now and then, as in the highland region of the Hudson, made a détour to avoid some bare, rocky
island. Several of these islands were quite columnar,--being evidently the emerged capitals
of basaltic prisms, like the other uplifts on the banks. A fine instance of this formation
was the stately and perpendicular "Rooster Rock" on the Oregon side, but not far from Cape
Horn. Still another was called "Lone Rock," and rose from the middle of the river. These came
upon our view within the first hour after breakfast, in company with a slender, but graceful
stream, which fell into the river over a sheer wall of basalt seven hundred feet in height.
This little cascade reminded us of Po-ho-nó, or The Bridal Veil, near the lower entrance of
the Great Yo-Semite.

As the steamer rounded a point into each new stretch of silent, green, and sunny river, we
sent a flock of geese or ducks hurrying cloudward or shoreward. Here, too, for the first time
in a state of absolute Nature, I saw that royal bird, the swan, escorting his mate and cygnets
on an airing or a luncheon-tour. It was a beautiful sight, though I must confess that his Majesty
and all the royal family are improved by civilization. One of the great benefits of civilization
is, that it restricts its subjects to doing what they can do best. Park-swans seldom fly,--and
flying is something that swans should never attempt, unless they wish to be taken for geese.
I felt actually désillusionné, when a princely cortége, which had been rippling their snowy
necks in the sunshine, clumsily lifted themselves out of the water and slanted into the clouds,
stretching those necks straight as a gun-barrel. Every line of grace seemed wire-drawn out
of them in a moment. Song is as little their forte as flight,--barring the poetic license open
to moribund members of their family,--and I must confess, that, if this privilege indicate
approaching dissolution, the most intimate friends of the specimens we heard have no cause
for apprehension. An Adirondack loon fortifying his utterance by a cracked fish-horn is the
nearest approach to a healthy swan-song. On the whole, the wild swan cannot afford to "pause
in his cloud" for all the encomiums of Mr. Tennyson, and had better come down immediately to
the dreamy water-level where he floats dream within dream, like a stable vapor in a tangible
sky. Anywhere else he seems a court-beauty wandering into metaphysics.

Alternating with these swimmers came occasional flocks of shag, a bird belonging to the cormorant
tribe, and here and there a gull, though these last grew rarer as we increased our distance
from the sea. I was surprised to notice a fine seal playing in the channel, twenty miles above
Fort Vancouver, but learned that it was not unusual for these animals to ascend nearly to the
cataract. Both the whites and Indians scattered along the river-banks kill them for their skin
and blubber,--going out in boats for the purpose. My informant's boat had on one occasion taken
an old seal nursing her calf. When the dam was towed to shore, the young one followed her,
occasionally putting its fore-flippers on the gunwale to rest, like a Newfoundland dog, and
behaving with such innocent familiarity that malice was disarmed. It came ashore with the boat's-crew
and the body of its parent; no one had the heart to drive it away; so it stayed and was a pet
of the camp from that time forward. After a while the party moved its position a distance of
several miles while Jack was away in the river on a fishing-excursion, but there was no eluding
him. The morning after the shift he came wagging into camp, a faithful and much-overjoyed,
but exceedingly battered and used-up seal. He had evidently sought his friends by rock and
flood the entire night preceding.

Occasionally the lonely river-stretches caught a sudden human interest in some gracefully modelled
canoe gliding out with a crew of Chinook Indians from the shadow of a giant promontory, propelled
by a square sail learned of the whites. Knowing the natural, ingrained laziness of Indians,
one can imagine the delight with which they comprehended that substitute for the paddle. After
all, this may perhaps be an ill-natured thing to say. Who does like to drudge when he can help
it? Is not this very Wilson G. Hunt a triumph of human laziness, vindicating its claim to be
the lord of matter by an ingenuity doing labor's utmost without sweat? After all, nobody but
a fool drudges for other reason than that he may presently stop drudging.

At short intervals along the narrow strip of shore under the more gradual steeps, on the lower
ledges of the basaltic precipices, and on little rock-islands in the river, appeared rude-looking
stacks and scaffoldings where the Indians had packed their salmon. They left it in the open
air without guard, as fearless of robbers as if the fish did not constitute their almost entire
subsistence for the winter. And within their own tribes they have justification for this fearlessness.
Their standard of honor is in most respects curiously adjustable,--but here virtue is defended
by the necessities of life.

In the immediate vicinity of the cured article (I say "cured," though the process is a mere
drying without smoke or salt) maybe seen the apparatus contrived for getting it in the fresh
state. This is the scaffolding from which the salmon are caught. It is a horizontal platform
shaped like a capital A, erected upon a similarly framed, but perpendicular set of braces,
with a projection of several feet over the river-brink at a place where the water runs rapidly
close in-shore. If practicable, the constructor modifies his current artificially, banking
it inward with large stones, so as to form a sort of sluice in which passing fish will be more
completely at his mercy. At the season of their periodic ascent, salmon swarm in all the rivers
of our Pacific coast; the Columbia and Willamette are alive with them for a long distance above
the cascades of the one and the Oregon-City fall of the other. The fisherman stands, nearly
or quite naked, at the edge of his scaffolding, armed with a net extended at the end of a long
pole, and so ingeniously contrived that the weight of the salmon and a little dexterous management
draw its mouth shut on the captive like a purse as soon as he has entered. A helper stands
behind the fisherman to assist in raising the haul,--to give the fish a tap on the nose, which
kills him instantly,--and finally to carry him ashore to be split and dried, without any danger
of his throwing himself back into the water from the hands of his captors, as might easily
happen by omitting the coup-de-grace. Another method of catching salmon, much in vogue among
the Sacramento and Pitt-River tribes, but apparently less employed by the Indians of the Columbia,
is harpooning with a very clever instrument constructed after this wise. A hard-wood shaft
is neatly, but not tightly, fitted into the socket of a sharp-barbed spear-head carved from
bone. Through a hole drilled in the spear-head a stout cord of deer-sinew is fastened by one
end, its other being secured to the shaft near its insertion. The salmon is struck by this
weapon in the manner of the ordinary fish-spear; the head slips off the shaft as soon as the
barbs lodge, and the harpoon virtually becomes a fishing-rod, with the sinew for a line. This
arrangement is much more manageable than the common spear, as it greatly diminishes the chances
of losing fish and breaking shafts.

There can scarcely be a more sculpturesque sight than that of a finely formed, well-grown young
Indian struggling on his scaffold with an unusually powerful fish. Every muscle of his wiry
frame stands out in its turn in unveiled relief, and you see in him attitudes of grace and
power which will not let you regret the Apollo Belvedere or the Gladiator. The only pity is
that this ideal Indian is a rare being. The Indians of this coast and river are divided into
two broad classes,--the Fish Indians, and the Meat Indians. The latter, ceteris paribus, are
much the finer race, derive the greater portion of their subsistence from the chase, and possess
the athletic mind and body which result from active methods of winning a livelihood. The former
are, to a great extent, victims of that generic and hereditary tabes mesenterica which produces
the peculiar pot-bellied and spindle-shanked type of savage; their manners are milder; their
virtues and vices are done in water-color, as comports with their source of supply. There are
some tribes which partake of the habits of both classes, living in mountain-fastnesses part
of the year by the bow and arrow, but coming down to the river in the salmon-season for an
addition to their winter bill-of-fare. Anywhere rather than among the pure Fish Indians is
the place to look for savage beauty. Still these tribes have fortified their feebleness by
such a cultivation of their ingenuity as surprises one seeing for the first time their well-adapted
tools, comfortable lodges, and, in some cases, really beautiful canoes. In the last respect,
however, the Indians nearer the coast surpass those up the Columbia,--some of their carved
and painted canoes equalling the "crackest" of shell-boats in elegance of line and beauty of
ornament.

In a former article devoted to the Great Yo-Semite I had occasion to remark that Indian legend,
like all ancient poetry, often contains a scientific truth embalmed in the spices of metaphor,--or,
to vary the figure, that Mudjekeewis stands holding the lantern for Agassiz and Dana to dig by.

Coming to the Falls of the Columbia, we find a case in point. Nearly equidistant from the longitudes
of Fort Vancouver and Mount Hood, the entire Columbia River falls twenty feet over a perpendicular
wall of basalt, extending, with minor deviations from the right angle, entirely between-shores,
a breadth of about a mile. The height of Niagara and the close compression of its vast volume
make it a grander sight than the Falls of the Columbia,--but no other cataract known to me
on this continent rivals it for an instant. The great American Falls of Snake are much loftier
and more savage than either, but their volume is so much less as to counterbalance those advantages.
Taking the Falls of the Columbia all in all,--including their upper and lower rapids,--it must
be confessed that they exhibit every phase of tormented water in its beauty of color or grace
of form, its wrath or its whim.

The Indians have a tradition that the river once followed a uniform level from the Dalles to
the sea. This tradition states that Mounts Hood and St. Helen's are husband and wife,--whereby
is intended that their tutelar divinities stand in that mutual relation; that in comparatively
recent times there existed a rocky bridge across the Columbia at the present site of the cataract,
and that across this bridge Hood and St. Helen's were wont to pass for interchange of visits;
that, while this bridge existed, there was a free subterraneous passage under it for the river
and the canoes of the tribes (indeed, this tradition is so universally credited as to stagger
the skeptic by a mere calculation of chances); that, on a certain occasion, the mountainous
pair, like others not mountainous, came to high words, and during their altercation broke the
bridge down; falling into the river, this colossal Rialto became a dam, and ever since that
day the upper river has been backed to its present level, submerging vast tracts of country
far above its original bed.

I notice that excellent geological authorities are willing to treat this legend respectfully,
as containing in symbols the probable key to the natural phenomena. Whether the original course
of the Columbia at this place was through a narrow cañon or under an actual roof of rock, the
adjacent material has been at no very remote date toppled into it to make the cataract and
alter the bed to its present level. Both Hood and St. Helen's are volcanic cones. The latter
has been seen to smoke within the last twelve years. It is not unlikely that during the last
few centuries some intestine disturbance may have occurred along the axis between the two,
sufficient to account for the precipitation of that mass of rock which now forms the dam. That
we cannot refer the cataclysm to a very ancient date seems to be argued by the state of preservation
in which we still find the stumps of the celebrated "submerged forest," extending a long distance
up the river above the Falls.

At the foot of the cataract we landed from the steamer on the Washington side of the river,
and found a railroad-train waiting to do our portage. It was a strange feeling, that of whirling
along by steam where so few years before the Indian and the trader had toiled through the virgin
forest, bending under the weight of their canoes. And this is one of the characteristic surprises
of American scenery everywhere. You cannot isolate yourself from the national civilization.
In a Swiss châlet you may escape from all memories of Geneva; among the Grampians you find
an entirely different set of ideas from those of Edinburgh: but the same enterprise which makes
itself felt in New York and Boston starts up for your astonishment out of all the fastnesses
of the continent. Virgin Nature wooes our civilization to wed her, and no obstacles can conquer
the American fascination. In our journey through the wildest parts of this country, we were
perpetually finding patent washing-machines among the chaparral,--canned fruit in the desert,--Voigtlander's
field-glasses on the snow-peak,--lemon-soda in the cañon,--men who were sure a railroad would
be run by their cabin within ten years, in every spot where such a surprise was most remarkable.

The portage-road is six miles in length, leading nearly all the way close along the edge of
the North Bluff, which, owing to a recession of the mountains, seems here only from fifty to
eighty feet in height. From the windows of the train we enjoyed an almost uninterrupted view
of the rapids, which are only less grand and forceful in their impression than those above
Niagara. They are broken up into narrow channels by numerous bold and naked islands of trap.
Through these the water roars, boils, and, striking projections, spouts upward in jets whose
plumy top blows off in sheets of spray. It is tormented into whirlpools; it is combed into
fine threads, and strays whitely over a rugged ledge like old men's hair; it takes all curves
of grace and arrow-flights of force; it is water doing all that water can do or be made to
do. The painter who spent a year in making studies of it would not throw his time away; when
he had finished, he could not misrepresent water under any phases.

At the upper end of the portage-road we found another and smaller steamer awaiting us, with
equally kind provision for our comfort made by the Company and the captain. In both steamers
we were accorded excellent opportunities for drawing and observation, getting seats in the
pilot-house.

Above the rapids the river-banks were bold and rocky. The stream changed from its recent Niagara
green to a brown like that of the Hudson; and under its waters, as we hugged the Oregon side,
could be seen a submerged alluvial plateau, studded thick with drowned stumps, here and there
lifting their splintered tops above the water, and measuring from the diameter of a sapling
to that of a trunk which might once have been one hundred feet high.

Between Fort Vancouver and the cataract the banks of the river seem nearly as wild as on the
day they were discovered by the whites. On neither the Oregon nor the Washington side is there
any settlement visible,--a small wood-wharf, or the temporary hut of a salmon-fisher, being
the only sign of human possession. At the Falls we noticed a single white house standing in
a commanding position high up on the wooded ledges of the Oregon shore; and the taste shown
in placing and constructing it was worthy of a Hudson-River landholder. This is, perhaps, the
first attempt at a distinct country-residence made in Oregon, and belongs to a Mr. Olmstead,
who was one of the earliest settlers and projectors of public improvements in the State. He
was actively engaged in the building of the first portage-railroad, which ran on the Oregon
side. The entire interests of both have, I believe, been concentrated in the newer one, and
the Oregon road, after building itself by feats of business-energy and ingenuity known only
to American pioneer enterprise, has fallen into entire or comparative disuse.

Above the Falls we found as unsettled a river-margin as below. Occasionally, some bright spot
of color attracted us, relieved against the walls of trap or glacis of evergreen, and this
upon nearer approach or by the glass was resolved into a group of river Indians,--part with
the curiously compressed foreheads of the Flat-head tribe, their serene nakedness draped with
blankets of every variety of hue, from fresh flaming red to weather-beaten army-blue, and adorned
as to their cheeks with smutches of the cinnabar-rouge which from time immemorial has been
a prime article of import among the fashionable native circles of the Columbia,--the other
part round-headed, and (I have no doubt it appears a perfect sequitur to the Flat-head conservatives)
therefore slaves. The captive in battle seems more economically treated among these savages
than is common anywhere else in the Indian regions we traversed, (though I suppose slavery
is to some extent universal throughout the tribes,)--the captors properly arguing, that, so
long as they can make a man fish and boil pot for them, it is a very foolish waste of material
to kill him.

At intervals above the Falls we passed several small islands of especial interest as being
the cemeteries of river-tribes. The principal, called "Mimitus," was sacred as the resting-place
of a very noted chief. I have forgotten his name, but I doubt whether his friends see the "Atlantic"
regularly; so that oversight is of less consequence. The deceased is entombed like a person
of quality, in a wooden mausoleum having something the appearance of a log-cabin upon which
pains have been expended, and containing, with the human remains, robes, weapons, baskets,
canoes, and all the furniture of Indian ménage, to an extent which among the tribes amounts
to a fortune. This sepulchral idea is a clear-headed one, and worthy of Eastern adoption. Old
ladies with lace and nieces, old gentlemen with cellars and nephews, might be certain that
the solace which they received in life's decline was purely disinterested, if about middle
age they should announce that their Point and their Port were going to Mount Auburn with them.

The river grew narrower, its banks becoming low, perpendicular walls of basalt, water-worn
at the base, squarely cut and castellated at the top, and bare everywhere as any pile of masonry.
The hills beyond became naked, or covered only with short grass of the grama kind and dusty-gray
sage-brush. Simultaneously they lost some of their previous basaltic characteristics, running
into more convex outlines, which receded from the river. We could not fail to recognize the
fact that we had crossed one of the great thresholds of the continent,--were once more east
of the Sierra-Nevada axis, and in the great central plateau which a few months previous, and
several hundred miles farther south, we had crossed amid so many pains and perils by the Desert
route to Washoe. From the grizzly mountains before us to the sources of the Snake Fork stretched
an almost uninterrupted wilderness of sage. The change in passing to this region from the fertile
and timbered tracts of the Cascades and the coast is more abrupt than can be imagined by one
familiar with our delicately modulated Eastern scenery. This sharpness of definition seems
to characterize the entire border of the plateau. Five hours of travel between Washoe and Sacramento
carry one out of the nakedest stone heap into the grandest forest of the continent.

As we emerged from the confinement of the nearer ranges, Mount Hood, hitherto visible only
through occasional rifts, loomed broadly into sight almost from base to peak, covered with
a mantle of perennial snow scarcely less complete to our near inspection than it had seemed
from our observatory south of Salem. Only here and there toward its lower rim a tatter in it
revealed the giant's rugged brown muscle of volcanic rock. The top of the mountain, like that
of Shasta, in direct sunlight is an opal. So far above the line of thaw, the snow seems to
have accumulated until by its own weight it has condensed into a more compactly crystalline
structure than ice itself, and the reflections from it, as I stated of Shasta, seem rather
emanations from some interior source of light. The look is distinctly opaline, or, as a poet
has called the opal, like "a pearl with a soul in it."

About five o'clock in the afternoon we reached the Oregon town and mining-depot of Dalles City.
A glance at any good War-Department map of Oregon and Washington Territories will explain the
importance of this place, where considerably previous to the foundation of the present large
and growing settlement there existed a fort and trading-post of the same name. It stands, as
we have said, at the entrance to the great pass by which the Columbia breaks through the mountains
to the sea. Just west of it occurs an interruption to the navigation of the river, practically
as formidable as the first cataract. This is the upper rapids and "the Dalles" proper,--presently
to be described in detail. The position of the town, at one end of a principal portage, and
at the easiest door to the Pacific, renders it a natural entrepot between the latter and the
great central plateau of the continent. This it must have been in any case for fur-traders
and emigrants, but its business has been vastly increased by the discovery of that immense
mining-area distributed along the Snake River and its tributaries as far east as the Rocky
Mountains. The John-Day, Boisé, and numerous other tracts both in Washington and Idaho Territories
draw most of their supplies from this entrepot, and their gold comes down to it either for
direct use in the outfit-market, or to be passed down the river to Portland and the San-Francisco
mint.

In a late article upon the Pacific Railroad, I laid no particular stress upon the mines of
Washington and Idaho as sources of profit to the enterprise. This was for the reason that the
Snake River seems the proper outlet to much of the auriferous region, and this route may be
susceptible of improvement by an alternation of portages, roads, and water-levels, which for
a long time to come will form a means of communication more economical and rapid than a branch
to the Pacific Road. The northern mines east of the Rocky range will find themselves occupying
somewhat similar relations to the Missouri River, which rises, as one might almost say, out
of the same spring as the Snake,--certainly out of the same ridge of the Rocky Mountains.

"The Dalles" is a town of one street, built close along the edge of a bluff of trap thirty
or forty feet high, perfectly perpendicular, level on the top as if it had been graded for
a city, and with depth of water at its base for the heaviest draught boats on the river. In
fact, the whole water-front is a natural quay,--which wants nothing but time to make it alive
with steam-elevators, warehouses, and derricks. To Portland and the Columbia it stands much
as St. Louis to New Orleans and the Mississippi. There is no reason why it should not some
day have a corresponding business, for whose wharfage-accommodation it has even greater natural
advantages.

Architecturally, the Dalles cannot be said to lean very heavily on the side of beauty. The
houses are mostly two-story structures of wood, occupied by all the trades and professions
which flock to a new mining-entrepot. Outfit-merchants, blacksmiths, printing-office, (for
there is really a very well-conducted daily at the Dalles,) are cheek by jowl with doctors,
tailors, and Cheap Johns,--the latter being only less merry and thrifty over their incredible
sacrifices in everything, from pins to corduroy, than that predominant class of all, the bar-keepers
themselves. The town was in a state of bustle when our steamer touched the wharf; it bustled
more and more from there to the Umatilla House, where we stopped; the hotel was one organized
bustle in bar and dining-room; and bed-time brought no hush. The Dalles, like the Irishman,
seemed sitting up all night to be fresh for an early start in the morning.

We found everybody interested in gold. Crowds of listeners, with looks of incredulity or enthusiasm,
were gathered around the party in the bar-room which had last come in from the newest of the
new mines, and a man who had seen the late Fort-Hall discoveries was "treated" to that extent
that he might have become intoxicated a dozen times without expense to himself. The charms
of the interior were still further suggested by placards posted on every wall, offering rewards
for the capture of a person who on the great gold route had lately committed some of the grimmest
murders and most talented robberies known in any branch of Newgate enterprise. I had for supper
a very good omelet, (considering its distance from the culinary centres of the universe,) and
a Dalles editorial debating the claims of several noted cut-throats to the credit of the operations
ascribed to them,--feeling that in the ensemble I was enjoying both the exotic and the indigenous
luxuries of our virgin soil.

After supper and a stroll I returned to the ladies' parlor of the Umatilla House, rubbed my
eyes in vain to dispel the illusion of a piano and a carpet at this jumping-off place of civilization,
and sat down at a handsome centre-table to write up my journal. I had reviewed my way from
Portland as far as Fort Vancouver, when another illusion happened to me in the shape of a party
of gentlemen and ladies, in ball-dresses, dress-coats, white kids, and elaborate hair, who
entered the parlor to wait for further accessions from the hotel. They were on their way with
a band of music to give some popular citizen a surprise-party. The popular citizen never got
the fine edge of that surprise. I took it off for him. If it were not too much like a little
Cockney on Vancouver's Island who used the phrase on all occasions, from stubbing his toe to
the death of a Cabinet Lord, I should say, "I never was more astonished in me life!"

None of them had ever seen me before,--and with my books and maps about me, I may have looked
like some public, yet mysterious character. I felt a pleasant sensation of having interest
taken in me, and, wishing to make an ingenuous return, looked up with a casual smile at one
of the party. Again to my surprise, this proved to be a very charming young lady, and I timidly
became aware that the others were equally pretty in their several styles. Not knowing what
else to do under the circumstances, I smiled again, still more casually. An equal uncertainty
as to alternative set the ladies smiling quite across the row, and then, to my relief, the
gentlemen joined them, making it pleasant for us all. A moment later we were engaged in general
conversation,--starting from the bold hypothesis, thrown out by one of the gentlemen, that
perhaps I was going to Boisé, and proceeding, by a process of elimination, to the accurate
knowledge of what I was going to do, if it wasn't that. I enjoyed one of the most cheerful
bits of social relaxation I had found since crossing the Missouri, and nothing but my duty
to my journal prevented me, when my surprise-party left, from accompanying them, by invitation,
under the brevet title of Professor, to the house of the popular citizen, who, I was assured,
would be glad to see me. I certainly should have been glad to see him, if he was anything like
those guests of his who had so ingenuously cultivated me in a far land of strangers, where
a man might have been glad to form the acquaintance of his mother-in-law. This is not the way
people form acquaintances in New York; but if I had wanted that, why not have stayed there?
As a cosmopolite, and on general principles of being, I prefer the Dalles way. I have no doubt
I should have found in that circle of spontaneous recognitions quite as many people who stood
wear and improved on intimacy as were ever vouchsafed to me by social indorsement from somebody
else. We are perpetually blaming our heads of Government Bureaus for their poor knowledge of
character,--their subordinates, we say, are never pegs in the right holes. If we understood
our civilized system of introductions, we could not rationally expect anything else. The great
mass of polite mankind are trained not to know character, but to take somebody else's voucher
for it. Their acquaintances, most of their friendships, come to them through a succession of
indorsers, none of whom may have known anything of the goodness of the paper. A sensible man,
conventionally introduced to his fellow, must always wonder why the latter does not turn him
around to look for signatures in chalk down the back of his coat; for he knows that Brown indorsed
him over to Jones, and Jones negotiated him with Robinson, through a succession in which perhaps
two out of a hundred took pains to know whether he represented metal. You do not find the people
of new countries making mistakes in character. Every man is his own guaranty,--and if he has
no just cause to suspect himself bogus, there will be true pleasure in a frank opening of himself
to the examination and his eyes for the study of others. Not to be accused of intruding radical
reform under the guise of belles-lettres, let me say that I have no intention of introducing
this innovation at the East.

After a night's rest, Bierstadt spent nearly the entire morning in making studies of Hood from
an admirable post of observation at the top of one of the highest foot-hills,--a point several
miles southwest of the town, which he reached under guidance of an old Indian interpreter and
trapper. His work upon this mountain was in some respects the best he ever accomplished, being
done with a loving faithfulness hardly called out by Hood's only rival, the Peak of Shasta.
The result of his Hood studies, as seen in the nearly completed painting, has a superiority
corresponding to that of the studies themselves, possessing excellences not included even in
the well-known "Lander's Peak."

In the afternoon, we were provided, by the courtesy of the Company, with a special train on
the portage-railroad connecting Dalles City with a station known as Celilo. This road had but
recently come into full operation, and was now doing an immense freight-business between the
two river-levels separated by the intervening "Dalles." It seemed somewhat longer than the
road around the Falls. Its exact length has escaped me, but I think it about eight or nine miles.

With several officers of the road, who vied in giving us opportunities of comfort and information,
we set out, about three P.M., from a station on the water-front below the town, whence we trundled
through the long main street, and were presently shot forth upon a wilderness of sand. An occasional
trap uplift rose on our right, but, as we were on the same bluff-level as Dalles City, we met
no lofty precipices. We were constantly in view of the river, separated from its Oregon brink
at the farthest by about half a mile of the dreariest dunes of shifting sand ever seen by an
amateur in deserts. The most arid tracts along the Platte could not rival this. The wind was
violent when we left Dalles City, and possessed the novel faculty of blowing simultaneously
from all points of the compass. It increased with every mile of advance, both in force and
faculty, until at Celilo we found it a hurricane. The gentlemen of the Company who attended
us told us, as seemed very credible, that the highest winds blowing here (compared with which
the present might be styled a zephyr) banked the track so completely out of sight with sand
that a large force of men had to be steadily employed in shovelling out trains that had been
brought to a dead halt, and clearing a way for the slow advance of others. I observed that
the sides of some of the worst sand-cuts had been planked over to prevent their sliding down
upon the road. Occasionally, the sand blew in such tempests as to sift through every cranny
of the cars, and hide the river-glimpses like a momentary fog. But this discomfort was abundantly
compensated by the wonderfully interesting scenery on the Columbia side of our train.

The river for the whole distance of the portage is a succession of magnificent rapids, low
cataracts, and narrow, sinuous channels,--the last known to the old French traders as "Dales"
or "Troughs," and to us by the very natural corruption of "Dalles." The alternation between
these phases is wonderfully abrupt. At one point, about half-way between Dalles City and Celilo,
the entire volume of the Columbia River (and how vast that is may be better understood by following
up on the map the river itself and all its tributaries) is crowded over upon the Oregon shore
through a passage not more than fifty yards in width, between perfectly naked and perpendicular
precipices of basalt. Just beyond this mighty mill-race, where one of the grandest floods of
the continent is sliding in olive-green light and umber shadow, smoothly and resistlessly as
time, the river is a mile wide, and plunges over a ragged wall of trap blocks, reaching, as
at the lower cataract, from shore to shore. In other neighboring places it attains even a greater
width, but up to Celilo is never out of torment from the obstructions of its bed. Not even
the rapids of Niagara can vie with these in their impression of power, and only the Columbia
itself can describe the lines of grace made by its water, rasped to spray, churned to froth,
tired into languid sheets that flow like sliding glass, or shot up in fountains frayed away
to rainbows on their edges, as it strikes some basalt hexagon rising in mid-stream. The Dalles
and the Upper Cataracts are still another region where the artist might stay for a year's University-course
in water-painting.

At Celilo we found several steamers, in register resembling our second of the day previous.
They measured on the average about three hundred tons. One of them had just got down from Walla
Walla, with a large party of miners from gold-tracts still farther off, taking down five hundred
thousand dollars in dust to Portland and San Francisco. We were very anxious to accept the
Company's extended invitation, and push our investigations to or even up the Snake River. But
the expectation that the San-Francisco steamer would reach Portland in a day or two, and that
we should immediately return by her to California, turned us most reluctantly down the river
after Bierstadt and I had made the fullest notes and sketches attainable. Bad weather on the
coast falsified our expectations. For a week we were rain-bound in Portland, unable to leave
our hotel for an hour at a time without being drenched by the floods which just now set in
for the winter season, and regretting the lack of that prescience which would have enabled
us to accomplish one of the most interesting side-trips in our whole plan of travel. While
this pleasure still awaited us, and none in particular of any kind seemed present, save the
in-door courtesies of our Portland friends, it was still among the memories of a lifetime to
have seen the Columbia in its Cataracts and its Dalles.

OUR LAST DAY IN DIXIE.

It was not far from eleven o'clock at night when we took leave of the Rebel President, and,
arm in arm with Judge Ould, made our way through the silent, deserted streets to our elevated
quarters in the Spotswood Hotel at Richmond. As we climbed the long, rickety stairs which led
to our room in the fourth story, one of us said to our companion,--

"We can accomplish nothing more by remaining here. Suppose we shake the sacred soil from our
feet to-morrow?"

"Very well. At what hour will you start?" he replied.

"The earlier, the better. As near daybreak as may be,--to avoid the sun."

"We can't be ready before ten o'clock. The mules are quartered six miles out of town."

That sounded strange, for Jack, our ebony Jehu, had said to me only the day before, "Dem is
mighty foine mules, Massa. I 'tends ter dem mules myself; we keeps 'em right round de corner."
Taken together, the statements of the two officials had a bad look; but Mr. Davis had just
given me a message to his niece, and Mr. Benjamin had just intrusted Colonel Jaquess with a
letter--contraband, because three pages long--for delivery within the limits of the "United
States"; therefore the discrepancy did not alarm me, for the latter facts seemed to assure
our safe deliverance from Dixie. Merely saying, "Very well,--ten o'clock, then, let it be,--we'll
be ready,"--we bade the Judge good-night at the landing, and entered our apartment.

We found the guard, Mr. Javins, stretched at full length on his bed, and snoring like the Seven
Sleepers. Day and night, from the moment of our first entrance into the Rebel dominions, that
worthy, with a revolver in his sleeve, our door-key in his pocket, and a Yankee in each one
of his eyes, had implicitly observed his instructions,--"Keep a constant watch upon them";
but overtasked nature had at last got the better of his vigilance, and he was slumbering at
his post. Not caring to disturb him, we bolted the door, slid the key under his pillow, and
followed him to the land of dreams.

It was a little after two o'clock, and the round, ruddy moon was looking pleasantly in at my
window, when a noise outside awoke me. Lifting the sash, I listened. There was a sound of hurrying
feet in the neighboring street, and a prolonged cry of murder! It seemed the wild, strangled
shriek of a woman. Springing to the floor, I threw on my clothes, and shook Javins.

"Wake up! Give me the key! They're murdering a woman in the street!" I shouted, loud enough
to be heard in the next world.

But he did not wake, and the Colonel, too, slept on, those despairing cries in his ears, as
peacefully as if his great dream of peace had been realized. Still those dreadful shrieks,
mingled now with curses hot from the bottomless pit, came up through the window. No time was
to be lost,--so, giving another and a desperate tug at Javins, I thrust my hand under his pillow,
drew out his revolver and the door-key, and, three steps at a time, bounded down the stairways.
At the outer entrance a half-drunken barkeeper was rubbing his eyes, and asking, "What's the
row?"--but not another soul was stirring. Giving no heed to him, I hurried into the street.
I had not gone twenty paces, however, before a gruff voice from the shadow of the building
called out,--

"Halt! Who goes thar'?"

"A friend," I answered.

"Advance, friend, and give the countersign."

"I don't know it."

"Then ye carn't pass. Orders is strict."

"What is this disturbance? I heard a woman crying murder."

The stifled shrieks had died away, but low moans, and sounds like hysterical weeping, still
came up from around the corner.

"Oh! nothin',--jest some nigger fellers on a time. Thet's all."

"And you stood by and saw it done!" I exclaimed, with mingled contempt and indignation.

"Sor it? How cud I holp it? I hes my orders,--ter keep my eye on thet 'ar' door; 'sides, thar'
war' nigh a dozen on 'em, and these Richmond nigs, now thet the white folks is away, is more
lawless nor old Bragg himself. My life 'ou'dn't ha' been wuth a hill o' beans among 'em."

By this time I had gradually drawn the sentinel to the corner of the building, and looking
down the dimly lighted street whence the sounds proceeded, I saw that it was empty.

"They are gone now," I said, "and the woman may be dying. Come, go down there with me."

"Carn't, Cunnel. I 'ou'dn't do it fur all the women in Richmond."

"Was your mother a woman?"

"I reckon, and a right peart 'un,--ye mought bet yer pile on thet."

"I'll bet my pile she'd disown you, if she knew you turned your back on a woman."

He gave me a wistful, undecided look, and then, muttering something about "orders," which I
did not stop to bear, followed me, as I hurried down the street.

Not three hundred yards away, in a narrow recess between two buildings, we found the woman.
She lay at full length on the pavement, her neat muslin gown torn to shreds, and her simple
lace bonnet crushed into a shapeless mass beside her. Her thick, dishevelled hair only half-concealed
her open bosom, and from the corners of her mouth the blood was flowing freely. She was not
dead,--for she still moaned pitifully,--but she seemed to be dying. Lifting her head as tenderly
as I could, I said to her,--

"Are you much hurt? Can't you speak to me?"

She opened her eyes, and staring at the sentinel with a wild, crazed look, only moaned,--

"Oh! don't! Don't,--any more! Let me die! Oh! let me die!"

"Not yet. You are too young to die yet. Come, see if you can't sit up."

Something, it may have been the tone of my voice, seemed to bring her to her senses, for she
again opened her eyes, and, with a sudden effort, rose nearly to her feet. In a moment, however,
she staggered back, and would have fallen, had not the sentinel caught her.

"There, don't try again. Rest awhile. Take some of this,--it will give you strength"; and I
emptied my brandy-flask into her mouth. "Our General" had filled it the morning we set out
from his camp; but two days' acquaintance with the Judge, who declared "such brandy contraband
of war," had reduced its contents to a low ebb. Still, there was enough to do that poor girl
a world of good. She shortly revived, and sitting up, her head against the sentinel's shoulder,
told us her story. She was a white woman, and served as nursery-maid in a family that lived
hard by. All of its male members being away with the array, she had been sent out at that late
hour to procure medicine for a sick child, and, waylaid by a gang of black fiends, had been
gagged and outraged in the very heart of Richmond! And this is Southern civilization under
Jefferson I.!

At the end of a long hour, I returned to the hotel. The sentry was pacing to and fro before
it, and, seating myself on the door-step, I drew him into conversation.

"Do such things often happen in Richmond?" I asked him.

"Often! Ye's strange yere, I reckon," he replied.

"No,--I've been here forty times, but not lately. Things must be in a bad way here, now."

"Wai, they is! Thar' 's nary night but thair' 's lots o' sech doin's. Ye see, thar' ha'n't
more 'n a corporal's-guard o' white men in the hull place, so the nigs they hes the'r own way,
and ye'd better b'lieve they raise the Devil, and break things, ginerally."

"I've seen no other able-bodied soldier about town; how is it that you are here?"

"I ha'n't able-bodied," he replied, holding up the stump of his left arm, from which the sleeve
was dangling. "I lost thet more 'n a y'ar ago. I b'long ter the calvary,--Fust Alabama,--and
bein' as I carn't manage a nag now, they 's detailed me fur provost-duty."

"First Alabama? I know Captains Webb and Finnan of that regiment."

"Ye does? What! old man Webb, as lives down on Coosa?"

"Yes, at Gadsden, in Cherokee County. Streight burnt his house, and both of his mills', on
his big raid, and the old man has lost both of his sons in the war. It has wellnigh done him up."

"I reckon. Stands ter natur' it sh'u'd. The Yankees is all-fired fiends. The old man use' ter
hate 'em loike----. I reckon he hates 'em wuss 'n ever now."

"No, he don't. His troubles seem to have softened him. When he told me of them, he cried like
a child. He reckoned the Lord had brought them on him because he'd fought against the Union."

"Wal, I doan't know. This war's a bad business, anyhow. When d'ye see old Webb last?"

"About a year ago,--down in Tennessee, nigh to Tullahoma."

"Was he 'long o' the rigiment?"

That was a home question, for I had met Captain Webb while he was a prisoner, in the Court-House
at Murfreesboro'. However, I promptly replied,--

"No,--he'd just left it."

"Wal, I doan't blame him. Pears loike, ef sech things sh'u'd come onter me, I'd let the war
and the kentry go ter the Devil tergether."

My acquaintance with Captain Webb naturally won me the confidence of the soldier; and for nearly
an hour, almost unquestioned, he poured into my ear information that would have been of incalculable
value to our generals. Two days later I would have given my right hand for liberty to whisper
to General Grant some things that he said; but honor and honesty forbade it.

A neighboring clock struck four when I rose to go. As I did so, I said to the sentinel,--

"I saw no other sentry in the streets; why are you guarding this hotel?"

"Wal, ye knows old Brown's a-raisin' Cain down thar' in Georgy. Two o' his men bes come up
yere ter see Jeff, and things ha'n't quite satisfactory, so we's orders ter keep 'em tighter
'n a bull's-eye in fly-time."

So, not content with placing a guard in our very bedchamber, the oily-tongued despot over the
way had fastened a padlock over the key-hole of our outside-door! What would happen, if he
should hear that I had picked the padlock, and prowled about Richmond for an hour after midnight!
The very thought gave my throat a preliminary choke, and my neck an uneasy sensation. It was
high time I sought the embrace of that hard mattress in the fourth story. But my fears were
groundless. When I crept noiselessly to bed, Javins was sleeping as soundly and snoring as
sweetly as if his sins were all forgiven.

When I awoke in the morning, breakfast was already laid on the centre-table, and an army of
newsboys were shouting under our windows, "'Ere's the 'En'quirer' and the 'Dis'patch.' Great
news from the front. Gin'ral Grant mortally killed,--shot with a cannon." Rising, and beginning
my toilet, I said to Javins, in a tone of deep concern,--

"When did that happen?"

"Why, o' Saturday. I hearn of it afore we left the lines. 'Twas all over town yesterday," he
replied, with infinite composure.

"And you didn't tell us! That was unkind of you, Javins,--very unkind. How could you do it?"

"It's ag'in' orders to talk news with you;--besides, I thought you knowed it."

"How should we know it?"

"Why, your boat was only just ahead of his'n, comin' up the river. He got shot runnin' that
battery. Hit in the arm, and died when they amputated him."

"Amputated him! Did they cut off his head to save his arm?"

Whether he saw a quiet twinkle in my eye, or knew that the news was false, I know not. Whichever
it was, he replied,--

"I reckon. Then you don't b'lieve it?"

"Why should I doubt it? Don't your papers always tell the truth?"

"No, they never do; lyin' 's their trade."

"Then you suppose they're whistling now to keep up their courage? But let us see what they
say. Oblige me with some of your currency."

He kindly gave me three dollars for one, and ringing the bell, I soon had the five dingy half-sheets
which every morning, "Sundays excepted," hold up this busy world, "its fluctuations and its
vast concerns," to the wondering view of beleaguered Richmond.

"Dey's fifty cents apiece, Massa," said the darky, handing me the papers, and looking wistfully
on the poor specimen of lithography which remained after the purchase; "what shill I do wid dis?"

"Oh! keep it. I'd give you more, but that's all the lawful money I have about me."

He hesitated, as if unwilling to take my last half-dollar; but self soon got the better of
him. He pocketed the shin-plaster, and said nothing; but "Poor gentleman! I's sorry for you!
Libin' at do Spotswood, and no money about you!" was legible all over his face.

We opened the papers, and, sure enough, General Grant was dead, and laid out in dingy sheets,
with a big gun firing great volleys over him! The cannon which that morning thundered Glory!
Hallelujah! through the columns of the "Whig" and the "Examiner" no doubt brought him to life
again. No such jubilation, I believe, disgraced our Northern journals when Stonewall Jackson fell.

Breakfast over, the Colonel and I packed our portmanteaus, and sat down to the intellectual
repast. It was a feast, and we enjoyed it. I always have enjoyed the Richmond editorials. If
I were a poet, I should study them for epithets. Exhausting the dictionary, their authors ransack
heaven, earth, and the other place, and into one expression throw such a concentration of scorn,
hate, fury, or exultation as is absolutely stunning to a man of ordinary nerves. Talk of their
being bridled! They never had a bit in their mouths. Before the war they ran wild, and now
they ride rough-shod over decorum, decency, and Davis himself. But the dictator endures it
like a philosopher. "He lets it pass," said Judge Ould to me, "like the idle wind, which it is."

At last, ten o'clock--the hour when we were to set out from Dixie--struck from a neighboring
steeple, and I laid down the paper, and listened for the tread of the Judge on the stairs.
I had heard it often, and it had always been welcome, for he is a most agreeable companion,
but I had not listened for it till then. Then I waited for it as "they that watch for the morning,"
for he was to deliver us from the "den of lions,"--from "the hold of every foul and unclean
thing." Ten, twenty, thirty minutes I waited, but he did not come! Why was he late, that prompt
man, who was always "on time,"--who put us through the streets of Richmond the night before
on a trot, lest we should be a second late at our appointment? Did he mean to bake us brown
with the mid-day sun? or had the mules overslept themselves, or moved their quarters still
farther out of town? Well, I didn't know, and it was useless to speculate, so I took up the
paper, and went to reading again. But the stinging editorials had lost their sting, and the
pointed paragraphs, though sharper than a meat-axe, fell on me as harmless as if I had been
encased in a suit of mail.

At length eleven o'clock sounded, and I took out my watch to count the minutes. One, two, three,--how
slow they went! Four, five,--ten,--fifteen,--twenty! What was the matter with the watch? Even
at this day I could affirm on oath that it took five hours for that hour-hand to get round
to twelve. But at last it got there, and then--each second seeming a minute, each minute an
hour--it crept slowly on to one; but still no Judge appeared! Why did he not come? The reason
was obvious. The mules were "quartered six miles out of town," because he had to see Mr. Davis
before letting us go. And Davis had heard of my nocturnal rambling, and concluded we had come
as spies. Or he had, from my cross-questioning the night before, detected my main object in
coming to Dixie. Either way my doom was sealed. If we were taken as spies, it was hanging.
If held on other grounds, it was imprisonment; and ten days of Castle Thunder, in my then state
of health, would have ended my mortal career.

I had looked at this alternative before setting out. But then I saw it afar off; now I stood
face to face with it, and--I thought of home,--of the brave boy who had said to me, "Father,
I think you ought to go. If I was only a man, I'd go. If you never come back, I'll take care
of the children."

These thoughts passing in my mind, I rose and paced the room for a few moments,--then, turning
to Javins, said,--

"Will you oblige me by stepping into the hall? My friend and I would have a few words together."

As he passed out, I said to the Colonel,--

"Ould is more than three hours late! What does it mean?"

All this while he had sat, his spectacles on his nose, and his chair canted against the window-sill,
absorbed in the newspapers. Occasionally he would look up to comment on something he was reading;
but not a movement of his face, nor a glance of his eye, had betrayed that he was conscious
of Ould's delay, or of my extreme restlessness. When I said this, he took off his spectacles,
and, quietly rubbing the glasses with his handkerchief, replied,--

"It looks badly, but--I ask no odds of them. We may have to show we are men. We have tried
to serve the country. That is enough. Let them hang us, if they like."

"Colonel," I exclaimed, with a strong inclination to hug him, "you are a trump! the bravest
man I ever knew!"

"I trust in God,--that is all," was his reply.

This was all he said,--but his words convey no idea of the sublime courage which shone in his
eye and lighted up his every feature. I felt rebuked, and turned away to hide my emotion. As
I did so, my attention was arrested by a singular spectacle in a neighboring street. Coming
down the hill, hand in hand with a colored woman, were two little boys of about eight or nine
years, one white, the other black. As they neared the opposite corner, the white lad drew back
and struck the black boy a heavy blow with his foot. The ebony juvenile doubled up his fist,
and, planting it behind the other's ear, felled him to the sidewalk. But the white lad was
on his feet again in an instant, and showering on the black a perfect storm of kicks and blows.
The latter parried the assault coolly, and, watching his opportunity, planted another blow
behind the white boy's ear, which sent him reeling to the ground again. Meanwhile the colored
nurse stood by, enjoying the scene, and a score or more of negroes of all ages and sizes gathered
around, urging the young ebony on with cheers and other expressions of encouragement. I watched
the combat till the white lad had gone down a third time, when a rap came at the door, and
Judge Ould entered.

"Good evening," he said.

"Good evening," we replied.

"Well, Gentlemen, if you are ready, we'll walk round to the Libby," he added, with a hardness
of tone I had not observed in his voice before.

My worst fears were realized! We were prisoners! A cold tremor passed over me, and my tongue
refused its office. A drooping plant turns to the sun; so, being just then a drooping plant,
I turned to the Colonel. He stood, drawn up to his full height, looking at Ould. Not a feature
of his fine face moved, but his large gray eye was beaming with a sort of triumph. I have met
brave men,--men who have faced death a hundred times without quailing; but I never met a man
who had the moral grandeur of that man. His look inspired me, for I turned to Ould, and, with
a coolness that amazed myself, said,--

"Very well. We are ready. But here is an instructive spectacle"; and I pointed to the conflict
going on in the street. "That is what you are coming to. Fight us another year, and that scene
will be enacted, by larger children, all over the South."

"To prevent that is why we are fighting you at all," he replied, dryly.

We shook Javins by the hand, and took up our portmanteaus to go. Then our hotel-bill occurred
to me, and I said to Ould,--

"You cautioned us against offering greenbacks. We have nothing else. Will you give us some
Confederate money in exchange?"

"Certainly. But what do you want of money?" he asked, resuming the free and easy manner he
had shown in our previous intercourse.

"To pay our hotel-bill."

"You have no bill here. It will be settled by the Confederacy."

"We can't allow that. We are not here as the guests of your Government."

"Yes, you are, and you can't help yourselves," he rejoined, laughing pleasantly. "If you offer
the landlord greenbacks, he'll have you jugged, certain,--for it's against the law."

"That's nothing to us. We are jugged already."

"So you are!" and he laughed again, rather boisterously.

His manner half convinced me that he had been playing on our sensibilities; but I said nothing,
and we followed him down the stairs.

At the outer door stood Jack and the ambulance! Their presence assured us a safe exit from
Dixie, and my feelings found expression somewhat as follows:--

"How are you, Jack? You're the best-looking darky I ever saw."

"I's bery well, Massa, bery well. Hope you's well," replied Jack, grinning until he made himself
uglier than Nature intended. "I's glad you tinks I's good-lookin'."

"Good-looking! You're better-looking than any man, black or white, I ever met."

"You've odd notions of beauty," said the Judge, smiling. "That accounts for your being an Abolitionist."

"No, it don't." And I added, in a tone too low for Jack to hear, "It only implies, that, until
I saw that darky, I doubted our getting out of Dixie."

The Judge gave a low whistle.

"So you smelt a rat?"

"Yes, a very big one. Tell us, why were you so long behind time?"

"I'll tell you when the war is over. Now I'll take you to Libby and the hospitals, if you'd
like to go."

We said we would, and, ordering Jack to follow with the ambulance, the Judge led us down the
principal thoroughfare. A few shops were open, a few negro women were passing in and out among
them, and a few wounded soldiers were limping along the sidewalks; but scarcely an able-bodied
man was to be seen anywhere. A poor soldier, who had lost both legs and a hand, was seated
at a street-corner, asking alms of the colored women as they passed. Pointing to him, the Judge
said,--

"There is one of our arguments against reunion. If you will walk two squares, I'll show you
a thousand."

"All asking alms of black women? That is another indication of what you are coming to."

He made no reply. After a while, scanning our faces as if he would detect our hidden thoughts,
he said, in an abrupt, pointed way,--

"Grant was to have attacked us yesterday. Why didn't he do it?"

"How should we know?"

"You came from Foster's only the day before. That's where the attack was to have been made."

"Why wasn't it made?"

"I don't know. Some think it was because you came in, and were expected out that way."

"Oh! That accounts for your being so late! You think we are spies, sent in to survey, and report
on the route?"

"No, I do not. I think you are honest men, and I've said so."

And I have no doubt it was because he "said so" that we got out of Richmond.

By this time we had reached a dingy brick building, from one corner of which protruded a small
sign, bearing, in black letters on a white ground, the words,--

    LIBBY AND SON,

    SHIP-CHANDLERS AND GROCERS.

It was three stories high, and, I was told, eighty feet in width and a hundred and ten in depth.
In front, the first story was on a level with the street, allowing space for a tier of dungeons
under the sidewalk; but in the rear the land sloped away till the basement-floor rose above-ground.
Its unpainted walls were scorched to a rusty brown, and its sunken doors and low windows, filled
here and there with a dusky pane, were cobwebbed and weather-stained, giving the whole building
a most uninviting and desolate appearance. A flaxen-haired boy, in ragged "butternuts" and
a Union cap, and an old man, in gray regimentals, with a bent body and a limping gait, were
pacing to and fro before it, with muskets on their shoulders; but no other soldiers were in sight.

"If Ben Butler knew that Richmond was defended by only such men, how long would it be before
he took it?" I said, turning to the Judge.

"Several years. When these men give out, our women will fall in. Let Butler try it!"

Opening a door at the right, he led us into a large, high-studded apartment, with a bare floor,
and greasy brown walls hung round with battle-scenes and cheap lithographs of the Rebel leaders.
Several officers in "Secession gray" were lounging about this room, and one of them, a short,
slightly-built, youthful-looking man, rose as we entered, and, in a half-pompous, half-obsequious
way, said to Judge Ould,--

"Ah! Colonel Ould, I am very glad to see you."

The Judge returned the greeting with a stateliness that was in striking contrast with his usual
frank and cordial manner, and then introduced the officer to us as "Major Turner, Keeper of
the Libby." I had heard of him, and it was with some reluctance that I took his proffered hand.
However, I did take it, and at the same time inquired,--

"Are you related to Dr. Turner, of Fayetteville?"

"No, Sir. I am of the old Virginia family." (I never met a negro-whipper nor a negro-trader
who did not belong to that family.) "Are you a North-Carolinian?"

"No, Sir"--

Before I could add another word, the Judge said,--

"No, Major; these gentlemen hail from Georgia. They are strangers here, and I'd thank you to
show them over the prison."

"Certainly, Colonel, most certainly. I'll do it with great pleasure."

And the little man bustled about, put on his cap, gave a few orders to his subordinates, and
then led us, through another outside-door, into the prison. He was a few rods in advance with
Colonel Jaquess, when Judge Ould said to me,--

"Your prisoners have belied Turner. You see he's not the hyena they've represented."

"I'm not so sure of that," I replied. "These cringing, mild-mannered men are the worst sort
of tyrants, when they have the power."

"But you don't think him a tyrant?"

"I do. He's a coward and a bully, or I can't read English. It is written all over his face."

The Judge laughed boisterously, and called out to Turner,--

"I say, Major, our friend here is painting your portrait."

"I hope he is making a handsome man of me," said Turner, in a sycophantic way.

"No, he isn't. He's drawing you to the life,--as if he'd known you for half a century."

We had entered a room about forty feet wide and a hundred feet deep, with bare brick walls,
a rough plank floor, and narrow, dingy windows, to whose sash only a few broken panes were
clinging. A row of tin wash-basins, and a wooden trough which served as a bathing-tub, were
at one end of it, and half a dozen cheap stools and hard-bottomed chairs were littered about
the floor, but it had no other furniture. And this room, with five others of similar size and
appointments, and two basements floored with earth and filled with débris, compose the famous
Libby Prison, in which, for months together, thousands of the best and bravest men that ever
went to battle have been allowed to rot and to starve.

At the date of our visit, not more than a hundred prisoners were in the Libby, its contents
having recently been emptied into a worse sink in Georgia; but almost constantly since the
war began, twelve and sometimes thirteen hundred of our officers have been hived within those
half-dozen desolate rooms and filthy cellars, with a space of only ten feet by two allotted
to each for all the purposes of living!

Overrun with vermin, perishing with cold, breathing a stifled, tainted atmosphere, no space
allowed them for rest by day, and lying down at night "wormed and dovetailed together like
fish in a basket,"--their daily rations only two ounces of stale beef and a small lump of hard
corn-bread, and their lives the forfeit, if they caught but one streak of God's blue sky through
those filthy windows,--they have endured there all the horrors of the middle-passage. My soul
sickened as I looked on the scene of their wretchedness. If the liberty we are fighting for
were not worth even so terrible a price,--if it were not cheaply purchased even with the blood
and agony of the many brave and true souls who have gone into that foul den only to die, or
to come out the shadows of men,--living ghosts, condemned to walk the night and to fade away
before the breaking of the great day that is coming,--who would not cry out for peace, for
peace on any terms?

And while these thoughts were in my mind, the cringing, foul-mouthed, brutal, contemptible
ruffian who had caused all this misery stood within two paces of me! I could have reached out
my hand, and, with half an effort, have crushed him, and--I did not do it! Some invisible Power
held my arm, for murder was in my heart.

"This is where that Yankee devil Streight, that raised hell so among you down in Georgia, got
out," said Turner, pausing before a jut in the wall of the room. "A flue was here, you see,
but we've bricked it up. They took up the hearth, let themselves down into the basement, and
then dug through the wall, and eighty feet underground into the yard of a deserted building
over the way. If you'd like to see the place, step down with me."

"We would, Major. We'd be right glad ter," I replied, adopting, at a hint from the Judge, the
Georgia dialect.

We descended a rough plank stairway, and entered the basement. It was a damp, mouldy, dismal
place, and even then--in hot July weather--as cold as an ice-house. What must it have been
in midwinter!

The keeper led us along the wall to where Streight and his party had broken out, and then said,--

"It's three feet thick, but they went through it, and all the way under the street, with only
a few case-knives and a dust-pan."

"Wal, they war smart. But, keeper, whar' wus yer eyes all o' thet time? Down our way, ef a
man couldn't see twenty Yankees a-wuckin' so fur six weeks, by daylight, in a clar place like
this yere, we'd reckon he warn't fit ter 'tend a pen o' niggers."

The Judge whispered, "You're overdoing it. Hold in." Turner winced like a struck hound, but,
smothering his wrath, smilingly replied,--

"The place wasn't clear then. It was filled with straw and rubbish. The Yankees covered the
opening with it, and hid away among it when any one was coming. I caught two of them down here
one day, but they pulled the wool over my eyes, and I let them off with a few days in a dungeon.
But that fellow Streight would outwit the Devil. He was the most unruly customer I've had in
the twenty months I've been here. I put him in keep, time and again, but I never could cool
him down."

"Whar' is the keeps?" I asked. "Ye's got lots o' them, ha'n't ye?"

"No,--only six. Step this way, and I'll show you."

"Talk better English," said the Judge, as we fell a few paces behind Turner on our way to the
front of the building. "There are some schoolmasters in Georgia."

"Wal, thar' ha'n't,--not in the part I come from."

The dungeons were low, close, dismal apartments, about twelve feet square, boarded off from
the remainder of the cellar, and lighted only by a narrow grating under the sidewalk. Their
floors were incrusted with filth, and their walls stained and damp with the rain, which, in
wet weather, had dripped down from the street.

"And how many does ye commonly lodge yere, when yer hotel's full?" I asked.

"I have had twenty in each, but fifteen is about as many as they comfortably hold."

"I reckon! And then the comfut moughtn't be much ter brag on."

The keeper soon invited us to walk into the adjoining basement. I was a few steps in advance
of him, taking a straight course to the entrance, when a sentinel, pacing to and fro in the
middle of the apartment, levelled his musket so as to bar my way, saying, as he did so,--

"Ye carn't pass yere, Sir. Ye must gwo round by the wall."

This drew my attention to the spot, and I noticed that a space, about fifteen feet square,
in the centre of the room, and directly in front of the sentinel, had been recently dug up
with a spade. While in all other places the ground was trodden to the hardness and color of
granite, this spot seemed to be soft, and had the reddish-yellow hue of the "sacred soil."
Another sentry was pacing to and fro on its other side, so that the place was completely surrounded!
Why were they guarding it so closely? The reason flashed upon me, and I said to Turner;--

"I say, how many barr'ls hes ye in thar'?"

"Enough to blow this shanty to ----," he answered, curtly.

"I reckon! Put 'em thar' when thet feller Dahlgreen wus a-gwine ter rescue 'em,--the Yankees?"

"I reckon."

He said no more, but that was enough to reveal the black, seething hell the Rebellion has brewed.
Can there be any peace with miscreants who thus deliberately plan the murder, at one swoop,
of hundreds of unarmed and innocent men?

In this room, seated on the ground, or leaning idly against the walls, were about a dozen poor
fellows who the Judge told me were hostages, held for a similar number under sentence of death
by our Government. Their dejected, homesick look, and weary, listless manner disclosed some
of the horrors of imprisonment.

"Let us go," I said to the Colonel; "I have had enough of this."

"No,--you must see the up-stairs," said Turner. "It a'n't so gloomy up there."

It was not so gloomy, for some little sunlight did come in through the dingy windows; but the
few prisoners in the upper rooms wore the same sad, disconsolate look as those in the lower story.

"It is not hard fare, or close quarters, that kills men," said Judge Ould to me; "it is homesickness;
and the strongest and the bravest succumb to it first."

In the sill of an attic-window I found a Minié-ball. Prying it out with my knife, and holding
it up to Turner, I said,--

"So ye keeps this room fur a shootin'-gallery, does ye?"

"Yes," he replied, laughing. "The boys practise once in a while on the Yankees. You see, the
rules forbid their coming within three feet of the windows. Sometimes they do, and then the
boys take a pop at them."

"And sometimes hit 'em? Hit many on 'em?"

"Yes, a heap."

We passed a long hour in the Libby, and then visited Castle Thunder and the hospitals for our
wounded. I should be glad to describe what I saw in those "institutions," but the limits of
my paper forbid it.

It was five o'clock when we bade the Judge a friendly good-bye, and took our seats in the ambulance.
As we did so, he said to us,--

"I have not taken your parole, Gentlemen. I shall trust to your honor not to disclose anything
you have seen or heard that might operate against us in a military way."

"You may rely upon us, Judge; and, some day, give us a chance to return the courtesy and kindness
you have shown to us. We shall not forget it."

We arrived near the Union lines just as the sun was going down. Captain Hatch, who had accompanied
us, waved his flag as we halted near a grove of trees, and a young officer rode over to us
from the nearest picket-station. We despatched him to General Foster for a pair of horses,
and in half an hour entered the General's tent. He pressed us to remain to dinner, proposing
to kill the fatted calf,--"for these my sons were dead and are alive again, were lost and are
found."

We let him kill it, (it tasted wonderfully like salt pork,) and in half an hour were on our
way to General Butler's head-quarters.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here ended our last day in Dixie, and here, perhaps, should end this article; but the time
has come when I can disclose my real purpose in seeking an audience of the Rebel leader; and
as such a disclosure may relieve me, in the minds of candid men, from some of the aspersions
cast upon my motives by Rebel sympathizers, I willingly make it. In making it, however, I wish
to be understood as speaking only for myself. My companion, Colonel Jaquess, while he fully
shared in my motives, and rightly estimated the objects I sought to accomplish, had other,
and, it may be, higher aims. And I wish also to say, that to him attaches whatever credit is
due to any one for the conception and execution of this "mission." While I love my country
as well as any man, and in this enterprise cheerfully perilled my life to serve it, I was only
his co-worker: I should not have undertaken it alone.

No reader of this magazine is so young as not to remember, that, between the first of June
and the first of August last, a Peace simoom swept over the country, throwing dust into the
people's eyes, and threatening to bury the nation in disunion. All at once the North grew tired
of the war. It began to count the money and the blood it had cost, and to overlook the great
principles for which it was waged. Men of all shades of political opinion--radical Republicans,
as well as honest Democrats--cried out for concession, compromise, armistice,--for anything
to end the war,--anything but disunion. To that the North would not consent, and peace I knew
could not be had without it, I knew that, because on the sixteenth of June, Jeff. Davis had
said to a prominent Southerner that he would negotiate only on the basis of Southern Independence,
and that declaration had come to me only five days after it was made.

The people, therefore, were under a delusion. They were crying out for peace when there was
no peace,--when there could be no peace consistent with the interest and security of the country.
The result of this delusion, were it not dispelled, would be that the Chicago Convention, or
some other convention, would nominate a man pledged to peace, but willing to concede Southern
independence, and on that tide of popular frenzy he would sail into the Presidency. Then the
deluded people would learn, too late, that peace meant only disunion. They would learn it too
late, because power would then be in the hands of a Peace Congress and a Peace President, and
it required no spirit of prophecy to predict what such an Administration would do. It would
make peace on the best terms it could get; and the best terms it could get were Disunion and
Southern Independence.

The Peace epidemic could be stayed, and the consequent danger to the country averted, it seemed
to me, only by securing in a tangible form, and before a trustworthy witness, the ultimatum
of the Rebel President. That ultimatum, spread far and wide, would convince every honest Northern
man that war was the only road to lasting peace.

To get that ultimatum, and to give it to the four winds of heaven, were my real objects in
going to Richmond.

I did not shut my eyes to the possibility of our paving the way for negotiations that might
end in peace, nor my ears to the blessings a grateful nation would shower on us, if our visit
had such a result; but I did not expect these things. I expected to be smeared from head to
foot with Copperhead slime, to be called a knight-errant, a seeker after notoriety, an abortive
negotiator, and a meddlesome volunteer diplomatist; but I expected also, if a good Providence
spared our lives, and my pen did not forget the English language, to be able to tell the North
the truth; and I knew that the Truth would stay the Peace epidemic, and kill the Peace party.
And by the blessing of God, and the help of the Devil, it did do that. The Devil helped, for
he inspired Mr. Benjamin's circular, and that forced home the bolt we had driven, and shivered
the Peace party into a million of fragments, every fragment now a good War man until the old
flag shall float again all over the country.

If we accomplished this, "the scoffer need not laugh, nor the judicious grieve," for our mountain
did not bring forth a mouse,--our "mission to Richmond" was not a failure.

It was a difficult enterprise. At the outset it seemed wellnigh impossible to gain access to
Mr. Davis; but we finally did gain it, and we gained it without official aid. Mr. Lincoln did
not assist us. He gave us a pass through the army-lines, stated on what terms he would grant
amnesty to the Rebels, and said, "Good-bye, good luck to you," when we went away; and that
is all he did.

It was also a hazardous enterprise,--no holiday adventure, no pastime for boys. It was sober,
serious, dangerous work,--and work for men, for cool, earnest, fearless, determined men, who
relied on God, who thought more of their object than of their lives, and who, for truth and
their country, were ready to meet the prison or the scaffold.

If any one doubts this, let him call to mind what we had to accomplish. We had to penetrate
an enemy's lines, to enter a besieged city, to tell home truths to the desperate, unscrupulous
leaders of the foulest rebellion the world has ever known, and to draw from those leaders,
deep, adroit, and wary as they are, their real plans and purposes. And all this we had to do
without any official safeguard, while entirely in their power, and while known to be their
earnest and active enemies. One false step, one unguarded word, one untoward event would have
consigned us to Castle Thunder, or the gallows.

Can any one believe that men who undertake such work are mere lovers of adventure, or seekers
of notoriety? If any one does believe it, let him pardon me, if I say that he knows little
of human nature, and nothing of human history.

I am goaded to these remarks by the strictures of the Copperhead press, but I make them in
no spirit of boasting. God forbid that I should boast of anything we did! For we did nothing.
Unseen influences prompted us, unseen friends strengthened us, unseen powers were all about
our way. We felt their presence as if they had been living men; and had we been atheists, our
experience would have convinced us that there is a GOD, and that He means that all men, everywhere,
shall be free.

ICE AND ESQUIMAUX.

CHAPTER I.

OFF.

Good bye, Boston! Good bye to State-House and Common, to the "Atlantic Monthly" and Governor
Andrew, memorable institutions all,--to you also, true Heart of the Commonwealth, and to republican
and Saxon America, the land where a man's a man even in the most inconvenient paucity of pounds
sterling. Still yours, I am weary of work and of war, weary of spinning out ten yards of strength-fibre
to twenty yards' length. And so when an angel in moustache comes to me out of unknown space,
with a card from the "Atlantic Monthly," on a corner of which is written a mysterious "Go,
if you can," and says, "Come with me to Labrador," what can I do but accept the omen? Therefore,
after due delay, and due warning from dear friends, and due consultations of the connubial
Delphi, not forgetting to advise with Dr. Oramel, the discreet lip obeys the instant indiscreet
wish, and says, "I go."

June 5, 1864. Provincetown. Came in here to get cheated in buying a boat, and succeeded admirably!
It was taken on board, not quite breaking beneath its own weight; the anchor soon followed;
we were away. Past the long spit of sand on the north and west; past the new batteries, over
which floated the flag that for months would not again gladden our eyes, save at the mast-head
of some wandering ship; then, with change of course, past the long curving neck of the desert
cape; and so out upon the open ocean we sped, with a free wind, a crested wave, and a white
wake. The land grew a low, blue cloud in the west, then melted into the horizon. But before
it faded, the heart of one man clung to it, regretful, penitent, saying, "It was not well to
go; it were better to have stayed and suffered, as you, O Land, must suffer."

But when it was gone; then the Before built to itself also a cloudland and drew me on. The
mystic North reached forth the wand by which it had fascinated me so often, and renewed its
spell. Who has not felt it? Thoreau wrote of "The Wild" as he alone could write; but only in
the North do you find it,--unless you make it, as he did, by your imagination. And even he
could in this but partially succeed. Talk of finding it in a ten-acre swamp! Why, man, you
are just from a cornfield, the echoes of your sister's piano are still in your ears, and you
called at the post-office for a letter as you came! Verdure and a mild heaven are above; clunking
frogs and plants that keep company with man are beneath. But in the North Nature herself is
wild. Of man she has never so much as heard. She has seen, perchance, a biped atomy creeping
through her snows; but he is not Man, lording it in power of thought and performance; he is
a muffled imbecility, that can do nothing but hug and hide its existence, lest some careless
breath of hers should blow it out; his pin-head taper must be kept under a bushel, or cease
to be even the covert pettiness it is. The wildness of the North is not scenic and pictorial
merely, but goes to the very heart of things, immeasurable, immitigable, infinite; deaf and
blind to all but itself and its own, it prevails, it is, and it is all.

The desert and the sea are indeed untamable, but the North is more. They hold their own, and
Civilization is but a Mrs. Partington, trying to sweep in at their doors. But Commerce, though
it cannot subdue, stretches its arms across them; while Culture and Travel go and come, still
wearing their plumes, still redolent with odors of civilized lands. The North reigns more absolutely.
Commerce is but a surf on its shores. Travel creeps guardedly, fearfully in, only to turn and
creep still more fearfully out.

We, indeed, are feeble even in our purposes of travel. Not Kanes, Parrys, Franklins, not intrepid
to brave the presence of the Arctic Czar, and look on his very face, with its half-year lights
and shades,--we go only to see the skirts of his robe, blown southward by summer-seeking winds.
But even the hope of this fills the Before with enchantment, and lures us like a charm.

Lures the ship, too, one would think: for how she flies! Fair wind and fog we had, where clear
skies were looked for,--fair wind and clear skies, where we had expected to plough fog; Cape
Sable forbears for once to hide itself; the shores of Nova Scotia are seen through an atmosphere
of crystal and under an azure without stain, and on the third day the Gut of Canso is reached,
and anchor cast in the little harbor of a little, dirty, bluenose villagette, ycleped "Port
Mulgrave."

Port Mulgrave? Port Filth, Port Rum, Port Dirk-Knife, Port Prostitution, Port Fish-Gurry, Port
everything unsavory and unconscionable!

"What news from the war?" asks Bradford of the first man, on landing.

Answer prompt. "Good news! Grant has been beaten, lost seventeen thousand men, and is making
for Washington as fast as he can run!"

Respondent's visage questionable, however,--too dirty, and too happy. Hence further researches;
and at last a man is found who (under prospects of trade) can contrive to tell the truth; and
he acknowledges that even the Canadian telegraph has told no such story.

In the evening, as some of us go on shore, there is a drunken fight. Knives are drawn, great
gashes given, blood runs like rain; the combatants tumble together into a shallow dock, stab
in the mud and water, creep out and clench and roll over and over in the ooze, stabbing still,
with beast-like, unintelligible yells, and half-intelligible curses. A great, nasty mob huddles
round,--doing what, think you? Roaring with laughter, and hooting their fish-gurry happiness
up to the welkin! Suddenly there is a surging among them; then Smith, our young parson, ploughs
through, springs upon the fighters, who owe to nothing but extreme drunkenness their escape
from the crime of murder. He clutches them,--jerks one this way, the other that, heedless of
the still plunging knives,--fastens upon the worst hurt of the two, and drags him off. Are
the lookers-on abashed? Never think it! They remonstrate! Smith jets at them fine sentences
of fiery, rebuking eloquence. "Bah!" they say, "this is nothing; we are used to it!" It was
their customary theatricals, their Spanish bull-fight; and they were little inclined to be
robbed of their show.

"Smith, you ran great risk of your life," said one, as the intrepid man stepped on board, with
a great gout of blood on his sleeve; "and your life is surely worth more by many times than
that of the creatures you rescued."

"I know nothing about that; I only know that they have immortal souls, and are not fit to die."

"Nor to live either, unhappily," said another.

There was cod- and cunner-fishing while here. Trout, also, were caught in a pond a little inland,--good
trout, too, though nothing, of course, to what we shall find in Labrador! Enjoy, while ye may,
short pleasures, O trouters! for long tramps--and faces--are to succeed!

June 11. After prolonged northeast rain a bright day, and with it the setting of sail, a many-handed
seesaw at the windlass, and departure.

"Well rid of that vile hole!" says one and another.

"Oh, but you'll be glad enough to see it three months hence," answers the experienced Bradford.

And we were!

The wind blew briskly down the Gut; the tide also, which, especially on the ebb, runs with
force, helping to carry off the waters of the St. Lawrence, was against us; and the deer-footed
schooner made haste slowly toward the west. Slower vessels failed, and were swept down by the
tide; we crept on, crept past the noble Porcupine Head, which rises abruptly six hundred and
forty feet from the sea, and at last, ceasing to tack, made a straight line out into the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, beautiful, most beautiful, this day, if never before. It was a sweet sail
we had across that gulf, well-named and ill-reputed. The sun shone like southern summer; the
summer breeze blew mild; the rising shores and rich red soil of Cape-Breton Isle, patched here
and there with dark evergreen-forests, and elsewhere by the lighter green of deciduous woods,
lay on the starboard side, warm-looking and welcome to the eyes. This shore, as then seen,
reminded me more than any other ever did of the Spanish coast on the approach to Gibraltar,--the
spruce woods answering in hue to olive-groves, the other to the green of vines. Meanwhile,
the palpitating sheen on the land, the star-sprinkled blueness of the sea, together with the
softness of the delicious day, brought vividly to mind those days in the Aegean when not even
the disabilities of an invalid could prevent his leaping over and swimming along by the ship's
side.

It was a great surprise, this climate and scene. I had expected chill skies and bleak shores:
I found the perfect pleasantness of summer in the air, and a coast-scenery with which that
of New England in general cannot vie.

Cape-Breton Isle is worthy of respect. With a population, if I remember rightly, of some thirty
thousand, and an area of more than three thousand square miles, embracing an inland sea, or
salt lake, deep enough for ships-of-the-line, it has, in addition to its great mineral wealth,
a soil capable of large crops. Wheat and corn do not thrive, but barley, oats, potatoes, and
many root-crops grow abundantly. And I may add, in passing, that Nova Scotia, over which I
travelled on my return, is worthy of a better repute. On the ocean side there is, indeed, a
strip from twenty to forty miles wide which is barren as the "Secesh" heart of Halifax. The
rock here is metamorphic, the soil worthless, the scenery rugged, yet mean. Gold is found,--in
such quantities that the labor of each man yields a gross result of two hundred and fifty-six
dollars a year! Deduct the cost of crushing the quartz, (for it is found only in quartz,) and
there is left--how much? But the Gulf-coast, and the side of the province next the Bay of Fundy,
have a carboniferous and red-sandstone formation, with a soil often deep and rich, faultless
meads and river-intervals, and a tender shore-scenery, relieved by ruddy cliffs, and high,
broken, burnt-umber islands.

But we are sailing up the Gulf. And while the day shines and wanes, and the shades of evening,
suffused with tender color, fall gently, and the Gulf to the west is deeply touched with veiled,
but glowing crimson, when the sun is down, and on the other hand Cape-Breton Isle puts forth,
close to our course, two small representative islands, red sandstone, charmingly ruddy under
the sunset light,--while a mild wind, sinking, but not ceasing, bears us on through daylight,
twilight, starlight, each perfect of its kind,--let me introduce our voyagers severally to
the reader.

First, the ship, surely a voyager as much as any of us!

"Benjamin S. Wright," fore-and-aft schooner, one hundred and thirty-six tons, built by McKay,
and worthy of him,--deep, sharp, broad of beam, a fine seaboat, swift as the wind, a little
long-masted for regular sea-voyaging, but, with this partial exception, faultless.

Next will naturally come the responsible originator and operator of the expedition.

William Bradford, artist,--slight in stature, delicate, though marked, in feature,--sensitive,
pious, ardent, absorbed,--not of distinguished mental power, though of active mind, aside from
his profusion, but within it a proper man of genius, with no superior, so far as I know, but
Turner, and no equal but Stanfield, in his power to render the sea in action.

The passengers were twelve in number; but with them I include two others, who have a claim
to that company. Here they are.

A----, "the Colonel,"--a lieutenant in the regular army, retired on account of illness,--brave,
intelligent, cultivated, a Churchman undeveloped in spiritual sense, rough in his sports, proud
as a Roman, his whole being, indeed, built up on manly, Roman pride,--a Greenland voyager,
and better read than any man I have met in the literature of Northern travel.

H----, "the Judge,"--cool-headed, warm-hearted, compassionate, irascible, liberal, witty, easy
speaker and fine conversationist, with an inexhaustible fund of sense, anecdote, candor, and
good heart.

L----, navy-surgeon,--also retired on account of extreme illness,--a sensible, quiet, good
man and gentleman.

A. S. Packard, Jr., Magister Artium, scientist,--devoting his attention chiefly to Insecta,
Mollusca, and Radiata, but giving penetrating glances at geology and physical geography,--attracted
to the North, where he had been before,--imperturbable, equal in humor and good-humor, companionable,
a boon to the party, and richly meriting the thanks I here offer him.

M----, ornithologist,--young, unripe, inattentive to his person, but very intelligent, and
bound to be a man of mark.

S----, "the Parson,"--Episcopal, twenty-five years old, active in mind, naturally eloquent,
pious, social, genial, generous, and frank as the day.

P----, graduate of college and law-school,--handsome, companionable, fluent in writing or talk,
and excellent at trolling a stave.

L----, quietest mouse in the world, but seen at once to be a gentleman, and found afterwards
to be a man of thought and culture.

C----, with the gravest, maturest, most thoughtful and balanced mind, and one of the happiest
appetites I ever found in a boy of fourteen, singularly ingenuous and high-minded, a rare spirit.

P----, photographer, skilful, and a good fellow.

W----, whose wife is enviable among women.

Captain H----, employed by Bradford, not as master, but as general ally,--old whaler, one of
Nature's noblemen, to whom experience has been a university and the world a book, strong as
the strongest of men, tender as the tenderest of women.

Ph----, fine Greek and Latin scholar, rich as Croesus and simple in his habits as Ochiltree,--passionately
fond of travel,--as well read, I will undertake to say, in the literature of travel in Egypt,
Arabia, Syria, and Turkey, as any other man twenty-five years old in Europe or America,--full
of facts, strong in mind, deep In heart, religious, candid, sincere, courageous, at once frank
and reticent,--a thoroughly large and profound nature, whom it was worth going to Labrador to meet.

Finally, your humble servant, "the Elder," who trusts that the reader remembers meeting him
before, and has somewhat, at least, of his own pleasure in renewing the acquaintance.

       *       *       *       *       *

The morning of June twelfth, our second Sunday on board, was one to remain memorable among
mornings for beauty,--for these were halcyon days, and Nature could not change for a moment
from her mood. It was nowise odd or strange, no Nubian of Thibetan beauty, no three-faced Hindoo
divinity, but a regular Grecian-featured Apollo, amber in forehead, fitly arrayed, coming to
a world worthy of him. Cape-Breton Isle was a strip of denser sky on the southeast horizon;
on the west, far away, rose Entry Island, one of the Magdalen group, deliciously ruddy and
Mediterranean-looking, seen through the lovely, ethereal, purple haze; while others of the
group appeared farther away, one of them, long and low, an island of absolute gold, polished
gold, splendid as gold under sunshine can be. The light wind bore us on so serenely as to give
the sense of calm more than calm itself; while the music of our motion through the water, that
incomparable barytone, rendered this calm into sound.

It was the very Sabbath and Sunday of Nature,--her Sabbath of rest, and her Sunday of joy.
I was surprised to find myself not surprised by this wonderful morning. It seemed not new nor
foreign, but suggested some divine old-time familiarity and fellowship. It looked me in the
eyes out of its immortal hilarity and peace, took me by the hand, and said, "Forever!" And
in that "Forever" spoke to me an infinite remembrance and an infinite hope.

At eleven A. M. we drew near to Gannet Rocks. These are three in number, all high, one quite
small and conical, a second somewhat larger, the third, which is the home of gannets, several
acres in extent. They were all ruddy, being of red sandstone; and the smallest, in that warm
light, was actual carmine. The largest rises with precipitous sides, which in parts beetle
far over the sea, to a height of four hundred feet, having above a surface nearly level, but
sloping gently to the south. By zigzag scrambling one may at a particular point climb to this
surface; but it is a hard climb, and a landing can be effected only in extreme calm.

At the distance of two miles or more, on our approach, the surface was visible, owing to its
slight southward slope. It had precisely the appearance of being deeply covered with snow,
save in one part, about a fourth of its area, where it was bright green. We knew that this
snow was no other than the female gannets, crowded together in the act of sitting on their
eggs; but by no inspection with powerful glasses could we discern a single point where the
rock appeared between them. They were literally packed together, every inch of room being used.
Six or eight acres of them!

But where are the males? There is no apparent room for them on the rock. Just as this question
occurred to me, some one cried out, "Look in the air! look in the air above the rock!" I lifted
my glass, and there they were, a veritable cloud. They reminded me, saving the color, of a
cloud of midges which astonished me one summer evening when I was a boy,--so thick that you
could not see through them. Whether these ever alight I cannot say. One thing is certain: they
cannot all, nor any considerable portion of them, alight on this rock together,--unless, indeed,
one should roost on another's back.

But the gannet is not particular about alighting. It is just as cheap flying, he thinks. His
true home, like that of the frigate-bird and one or two others, is the air. This is indicated
in his structure. The skin is not, as in most animals, strictly connected with the flesh, but
is attached by separate elastic fibres; and, like the frigate-bird, it can force in under the
skin, and into various cellular passages in the body, air which is rarefied by its animal heat,
and contributes greatly to its buoyancy.

The gannet is a handsome bird, larger by measurement, though not heavier, than the largest
gulls,--snow-white, save the outer third of the wing, which is jet-black,--his wings long and
sharp,--his motion in the air not rapid, but singularly home-like and easy. He is unable to
rise from level ground, but must launch himself from a height, probably owing to his shortness
and inelasticity of leg and length of wing; nor, indeed, can he rise from the water, unless
somewhat assisted by its motion. And this suggests a beautiful provision of Nature: the wings
of all true swimmers and divers are short and-round, to facilitate their ascent from the water.

If surprised on land, the gannet neither attempts to fly nor offers resistance, conscious of
helplessness; but when attacked in the water, where he is more at home, he will fight fiercely.
Nuttall, with grange contradiction, says, that, though web-footed, they do not swim,--yet elsewhere
speaks of looking down from a cliff and seeing them "swimming and chasing their prey." I cannot
testify.

After lingering an hour or two, "breaking the Sabbath," the schooner proceeded,--the wind freshening
during the afternoon, and the Gulf growing choppy, as if it could not quite suffer us to pass
without exhibiting somewhat of that peevish quality for which it has an evil renown. It was
but a passing wrinkle of ill-humor, however,--a feeble hint of what it could do, if it chose.

And when we recrossed it, two and a half months later, it chose!

       *       *       *       *       *

June 14. "Land ho! Labrador!"

"Where? Where is it?" cry a chorus of voices.

"There, a little on the larboard bow."

A long, silent, rather disconcerted gaze.

"I don't see it," says one.

"Nor I."

"There,--there,"--pointing,--"close down to the sea."

"You don't mean that cloud?"

"I mean that land."

"Humph!"

There is something occult about this art of seeing land. The landsman's eyesight is good; he
prides himself a little upon it. He looks; and for him the land isn't there. The seaman's eyesight
is no better; he looks, and for him the land is so plainly in view that he cannot understand
your failure to see it. He is secretly pleased, though,--and may pretend impatience in order
to conceal his pleasure. I have sailed in all, perhaps, a distance equal to that around the
earth, a good proportion of it along-shore; and I see as far as most men. But once on this
very voyage, during a storm, I had occasion to be convinced that nautical optics will assert
their advantage. Land was pointed out; it had been some time seen, and we were avoiding it,
the weather being thick and our position uncertain. I did my best to descry it, ready to quarrel
with my eyes for not doing so, and a little annoyed to find myself but a landsman after all.
But see it I couldn't. I did indeed, after a while, make out to fancy that I perceived an infinitesimal
densening of the mist there; but the illusion was one difficult to sustain.

At four o'clock in the afternoon we cast anchor in Sleupe Harbor, named for one Admiral Sleupe,
of whom I know just this, that a harbor in Labrador, Lat. 51°, is named for him. This region,
however, is named generally from Little Mecatina Island, which lies about six miles to the
southwest, considerable in size, and a most wild-looking land, tossed, tumbled, twisted, and
contorted in every conceivable and inconceivable way. The harbor, too, a snug little hole between
islands, was worthy of Labrador. Its shores were all of gray, unbroken rock, not rising in
cliffs, but sloping to the sea, and dipping under it in regular decline, like a shore of sand;
while not a tree, not a shrub, not a grass-blade, was to be seen. I never beheld a scene so
bleak, bare, and hard. Nor did I ever see a shore that seemed so completely "master of the
situation." The mightiest cliff confesses the power which it resists. Grand, enduring, awful,
it may be; but many a scar on its face and many a fragment at its feet tells of what it endures.
But this scarless gray rock, thrusting its hand in a matter-of-course way under the sea, and
seeming to hold it as in a cup, suggested a quality so comfortably immitigable that one's eyes
grew cold in looking at it.

Suddenly, "I see an inhabitant!" cries one.

Yes, there he was, moving over the rock. Can you imagine how far away and foreign he looked?
The gray granite beneath him, the gray cloud above him, seemed nearer akin. Instinctively,
one thought of hastening to a book of natural history for some description of the creature.
Then came the counter-thought, "This is a man!" And the attempt to realize that fact put him
yet farther, put him infinitely away. It was like rebounding from a wall. No form is so foreign
as the human, if a bar be placed to the sympathy of him who regards it; and for the time this
waif of humanity walked in the circle of an unconquerable strangeness.

He came on board,--another with him; for their hut was near by. Canadian French they proved
to be; could tatter English a little; and with the passage of speech the flow of sympathy began,
and we felt them to be human. Through the Word the worlds were made!

A wilderness of desert islands lies at this point along the coast, extending out, I judged,
not less than fifteen miles. Excepting Little Mecatina, which is a number of miles in length,
and must be some fifteen hundred feet high, they are not very considerable either in area or
elevation,--from five to five hundred acres in extent, and from thirty to two hundred feet
in height. They are swardless and treeless, though in two places I found a few blades of coarse,
tawny-green grass; and patches of sombre shrubbery, two and a half feet high, were not wanting.
Little lichen grows on the rock, though in the depressions and on many of the slopes grows,
or at least exists, a boggy greenish-gray moss, over which it breaks your knees--if, indeed,
your spine do not choose to monopolize that enjoyment--to travel long. The rock is pale granite,
disposed in layers, which vary from two to ten or twelve feet in thickness. These incline at
an angle of from ten to twenty degrees, giving to the islands, as a predominant characteristic,
a regular slope on one side and a cliff-like aspect on the other; though not a few are bent
up in the middle, perhaps exhibiting there some sharp ridge or vertical wall, while from this
they decline to either side.

As beheld on the day of our arrival, this scenery was of an incomparable desolation. Above
was the coldest gray sky I remember to have seen; the sea lay all in pallid, deathly gray beneath;
islands in all shades of grimmer and grimmest gray checkered it; vast drifts of gray old snow
filled the deeper hollows; and a heartless atmosphere pushed in the sense of this grayness
to the very marrow. It was as if all the ruddy and verdurous juices had died in the veins of
the world, and from core to surface only gray remained. To credit fully the impression of the
scene, one would say that Existence was dead, and that we stood looking on its corpse, which
even in death could never decay. Eternal Desolation,--Labrador!

But extremes meet.

THE PROCESS OF SCULPTURE.

I have heard so much, lately, about artists who do not do their own work, that I feel disposed
to raise the veil upon the mysteries of the studio, and enable those who are interested in
the subject to form a just conception of the amount of assistance to which a sculptor is fairly
entitled, as well as to correct the false, but very general impression, that the artist, beginning
with the crude block, and guided by his imagination only, hews out his statue with his own hands.

So far from this being the case, the first labor of the sculptor is upon a small clay model;
in which he carefully studies the composition of his statue, the proportions, and the general
arrangement of the drapery, without regard to very careful finish of parts. This being accomplished,
and the small model cast in plaster, he employs some one to enlarge his work to any size which
he may require; and this is done by scale, and with almost as much precision as the full-size
and perfectly finished model is afterwards copied in marble.

The first step in this process is to form a skeleton of iron, the size and strength of the
iron rods corresponding to the size of the figure to be modelled; and here, not only strong
hands and arms are requisite, but the blacksmith with his forge, many of the irons requiring
to be heated and bent upon the anvil to the desired angle. This solid framework being prepared,
and the various irons of which it is composed firmly wired and welded together, the next thing
is to hang thereon a series of crosses, often several hundred in number, formed by two bits
of wood, two or three inches in length, fastened together by wire, one end of which is attached
to the framework. All this is necessary for the support of the clay, which would otherwise
fall by its own weight. (I speak here of Roman clay,--the clay obtained in many parts of England
and America being more properly potter's clay, and consequently more tenacious.) The clay is
then pressed firmly around and upon the irons and crosses with strong hands and a wooden mallet,
until, from a clumsy and shapeless mass, it acquires some resemblance to the human form. When
the clay is properly prepared, and the work advanced as far as the artist desires, his own
work is resumed, and he then laboriously studies every part, corrects his ideal by comparison
with living models, copies his drapery from actual drapery arranged upon the lay-figure, and
gives to his statue the last refinement of beauty.

It will thus be seen that there is an intermediate stage, even in the clay, when the work passes
completely out of the sculptor's hands and is carried forward by his assistant,--the work on
which the latter is employed, however, obviously requiring not the least exercise of creative
power, which is essentially the attribute of the artist. To perform the part assigned him,
it is not necessary that the assistant, should be a man of imagination or refined taste,--it
is sufficient that he have simply the skill, with the aid of accurate measurements, to construct
the framework of iron and to copy the small model before him. But in originating that small
model, when the artist had nothing to work from but the image existing in his own brain, imagination,
refined feeling, and a sense of grace were essential, and were called into constant exercise.
So, again, when the clay model returns into the sculptor's hands, and the work approaches completion,
often after the labor of many months, it is he alone who infuses into the clay that refinement
and individuality of beauty which constitute his "style," and which are the test of the greater
or less degree of refinement of his mind, as the force and originality of the conception are
the test of his intellectual power.

The clay model having at last been rendered as perfect as possible, the sculptor's work upon
the statue is virtually ended; for it is then cast in plaster and given into the hands of the
marble-workers, by whom, almost entirely, it is completed, the sculptor merely directing and
correcting the work as it proceeds. This disclosure, I am aware, will shock the many, who often
ingeniously discover traces of the sculptor's hand where they do not exist. It is true, that,
in some cases, the finishing touches are introduced by the artist himself; but I suspect that
few who have accomplished and competent workmen give much of their time to the mallet or the
chisel, preferring to occupy themselves with some new creation, or considering that these implements
may be more advantageously wielded by those who devote themselves exclusively to their use.
It is also true, that, although the process of transferring the statue from plaster to marble
is reduced to a science so perfect that to err is almost impossible, yet much depends upon
the workmen to whom this operation is intrusted. Still, their position in the studio is a subordinate
one. They translate the original thought of the sculptor, written in clay, into the language
of marble. The translator may do his work well or ill,--he may appreciate and preserve the
delicacy of sentiment and grace which were stamped upon the clay, or he may render the artist's
meaning coarsely and unintelligibly. Then it is that the sculptor himself must reproduce his
ideal in the marble, and breathe into it that vitality which, many contend, only the artist
can inspire. But, whether skilful or not, the relation of these workmen to the artist is precisely
the same as that of the mere linguist to the author who, in another tongue, has given to the
world some striking fancy or original thought.

But the question when the clay is "properly prepared" forms the debatable ground, and has already
furnished a convenient basis for the charge that it is never "properly prepared" for women-artists
until it is ready for the caster. I affirm, from personal knowledge, that this charge is utterly
without foundation,--and as it would be affectation in me to ignore what has been so freely
circulating upon this subject in print, I take this opportunity of stating that I have never
yet allowed a statue to leave my studio, upon the clay model of which I had not worked during
a period of from four to eight months,--and further, that I should choose to refer all those
desirous of ascertaining the truth to Mr. Nucci, who "prepares" my clay for me, rather than
to my brother-sculptor, in the Via Margutta, who originated the report that I was an impostor.
So far, however, as my designs are concerned, I believe even he has not, as yet, found occasion
to accuse me of drawing upon other brains than my own.

We women-artists have no objection to its being known that we employ assistants; we merely
object to its being supposed that it is a system peculiar to ourselves. When Thorwaldsen was
called upon to execute his twelve statues of the Apostles, he designed and furnished the small
models, and gave them into the hands of his pupils and assistants, by whom, almost exclusively,
they were copied in their present colossal dimensions. The great master rarely put his own
hand to the clay; yet we never hear them spoken of except as "Thorwaldsen's statues." When
Vogelberg accepted the commission to model his colossal equestrian statue of Gustavus Adolphus,
physical infirmity prevented the artist from even mounting the scaffolding; but he made the
small model, and directed the several workmen employed upon the full-size statue in clay, and
we never heard it intimated that Vogelberg was not the sculptor of that great work. Even Crawford,
than whom none ever possessed a more rapid or facile hand, could never have accomplished half
the immense amount of work which pressed upon him in his later years, had he not had more than
one pair of hands to aid him in giving outward form to the images in his fertile brain. Nay,
not to refer solely to artists who are no longer among us, I could name many studios, both
in Rome and England, belonging to our brothers in Art, in which the assistant-modeller forms
as necessary a part of studio-"property" as the living model or the marble-workers,--and many
more, on a smaller scale, in which he lends a helping hand whenever required. If there are
a few instances in which the sculptor himself conducts his clay model through every stage,
it is usually because pecuniary considerations prevent his employing a professional modeller.

I do not wish it to be supposed that Thorwaldsen's general practice was such as I have described
in the particular case referred to: probably no artist ever studied or worked more carefully
upon the clay model than he. What I have stated was only with the view of showing to what extent
he felt himself justified in employing assistance. I am quite persuaded, however, that, had
Thorwaldsen and Vogelberg been women, and employed one-half the amount of assistance they did
in the cases mentioned, we should long since have heard the great merit of their works attributed
to the skill of their workmen.

Nor should we forget--to draw for examples upon a kindred art--how largely the painters of
the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries relied upon the mechanical skill of their pupils to assist
them in producing the great works which bear their names. All the painters of note of that
time, like many of the present day, had their pupils, to whom was intrusted much of the laborious
portion of their work, the master furnishing the design and superintending its execution. Raphael,
for instance, could never have left one half the treasures of Art which adorn the Vatican and
enrich other galleries, had he depended solely upon the rapidity of his own hand; and of the
many frescos which exist in the Farnese Palace, and are called "Raphael's frescos," there are
but two in which are to be traced the master's hand,--the Galatea, and one of the compartments
in the series representing the story of Cupid and Psyche.

It will thus be seen how large a portion of the manual labor which is supposed to devolve entirely
upon the artist is, and has always been, really performed by other hands than his own. I do
not state this fact in a whisper, as if it were a great disclosure which involved the honor
of the artist; it is no secret, and there is no reason why it should be so. The disclosure,
it is true, will be received by all who regard sculpture as simply a mechanical art with a
feeling of disappointment. They will brand the artist who cannot lay claim to the entire manipulation
of his statue, whether in clay or marble, as an impostor,--nor will they resign the idea that
the truly conscientious sculptor will carve every ornament upon his sandals and polish every
button upon his drapery. But those who look upon sculpture as an intellectual art, requiring
the exercise of taste, imagination, and delicate feeling, will never identify the artist who
conceives, composes, and completes the design with the workman who simply relieves him from
great physical labor, however delicate some portion of that labor may be. It should be a recognized
fact, that the sculptor is as fairly entitled to avail himself of mechanical aid in the execution
of his work as the architect to call into requisition the services of the stone-mason in the
erection of his edifice, or the poet to employ the printer to give his thoughts to the world.
Probably the sturdy mason never thinks much about proportion, nor the type-setter much about
harmony; but the master-minds which inspire the strong arm and cunning finger with motion think
about and study both. It is high time that some distinction should be made between the labor
of the hand and the labor of the brain. It is high time, in short, that the public should understand
in what the sculptor's work properly consists, and thus render less pernicious the representations
of those who, either from thoughtlessness or malice, dwelling upon the fact that assistance
has been employed in certain cases, without defining the limits of that assistance, imply the
guilt of imposture in the artists, and deprive them, and more particularly women-artists, of
the credit to which, by talent or conscientious labor, they are justly entitled.

    HARRIET HOSMER.

BRYANT'S SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.

NOVEMBER 3, 1864.

LEAVES FROM AN OFFICER'S JOURNAL.

II.

    CAMP SAXTON, near Beaufort, S.C.
    December 11, 1862. Charity ought, perhaps,
to withhold the information that during the first winter we had three
surgeons, and during the second only one.

ENGLAND AND AMERICA.

I came to America to see and hear, not to lecture. But when I was invited by the Boston "Fraternity"
to lecture in their course, and permitted to take the relations between England and America
as my subject, I did not feel at liberty to decline the invitation. England is my country.
To America, though an alien by birth, I am, as an English Liberal, no alien in heart. I deeply
share the desire of all my political friends in England and of the leaders of my party to banish
ill-feeling and promote good-will between the two kindred nations. My heart would be cold,
if that desire were not increased by the welcome which I have met with here. More than once,
when called upon to speak, (a task little suited to my habits and powers,) I have tried to
make it understood that the feelings of England as a nation towards you in your great struggle
had not been truly represented by a portion of our press. Some of my present hearers may, perhaps,
have seen very imperfect reports of those speeches. I hope to say what I have to say with a
little more clearness now.

There was between England and America the memory of ancient quarrels, which your national pride
did not suffer to sleep, and which sometimes galled a haughty nation little patient of defeat.
In more recent times there had been a number of disputes, the more angry because they were
between brethren. There had been disputes about boundaries, in which England believed herself
to have been overreached by your negotiators, or, what was still more irritating, to have been
overborne because her main power was not here. There had been disputes about the Right of Search,
in which we had to taste the bitterness, now not unknown to you, of those whose sincerity in
a good cause is doubted, when, in fact, they are perfectly sincere. You had alarmed and exasperated
us by your Ostend manifesto and your scheme for the annexation of Cuba. In these discussions
some of your statesmen had shown towards us the spirit which Slavery does not fail to engender
in the domestic tyrant; while, perhaps, some of our statesmen had been too ready to presume
bad intentions and anticipate wrong. In our war with Russia your sympathies had been, as we
supposed, strongly on the Russian side; and we--even those among us who least approved the
war--had been scandalized at seeing the American Republic in the arms of a despotism which
had just crushed Hungary, and which stood avowed as the arch-enemy of liberty in Europe. In
the course of that war an English envoy committed a fault by being privy to recruiting in your
territories. The fault was acknowledged; but the matter was pressed by your Government in a
temper which we thought showed a desire to humiliate, and a want of that readiness to accept
satisfaction, when frankly tendered, which renders the reparation of an unintentional offence
easy and painless between men of honor. These wounds had been inflamed by the unfriendly criticism
of English writers, who visited a new country without the spirit of philosophic inquiry, and
who in collecting materials for the amusement of their countrymen sometimes showed themselves
a little wanting in regard for the laws of hospitality, as well as in penetration and in largeness
of view.

Yet beneath this outward estrangement there lay in the heart of England at least a deeper feeling,
an appeal to which was never unwelcome, even in quarters where the love of American institutions
least prevailed. I will venture to repeat some words from a lecture addressed a short time
before this war to the University of Oxford, which at that time had among its students an English
Prince. "The loss of the American Colonies," said the lecturer, speaking of your first Revolution,
"was perhaps in itself a gain to both countries. It was a gain, as it emancipated commerce
and gave free course to those reciprocal streams of wealth which a restrictive policy had forbidden
to flow. It was a gain, as it put an end to an obsolete tutelage, which tended to prevent America
from learning betimes to walk alone, while it gave England the puerile and somewhat dangerous
pleasure of reigning over those whom she did not and could not govern, but whom she was tempted
to harass and insult. A source of military strength colonies can scarcely be. You prevent them
from forming proper military establishments of their own, and you drag them, into your quarrels
at the price of undertaking their defence. The inauguration of free trade was in fact the renunciation
of the only solid object for which our ancestors clung to an invidious and perilous supremacy,
and exposed the heart of England by scattering her fleet and armies over the globe. It was
not the loss of the Colonies, but the quarrel, that was one of the greatest, perhaps the greatest
disaster that ever befell the English race. Who would not give up Blenheim and Waterloo, if
only the two Englands could have parted from each other in kindness and in peace,--if our statesmen
could have had the wisdom, to say to the Americans generously and at the right season, 'You
are Englishmen, like ourselves; be, for your own happiness and for our honor, like ourselves,
a nation'? But English statesmen, with all their greatness, have seldom known how to anticipate
necessity; too often the sentence of history on their policy has been, that it was wise, just,
and generous, but too late. Too often have they waited for the teaching of disaster. Time will
heal this, like other wounds. In signing away his own empire, George III. did not sign away
the empire of English liberty, of English law, of English literature, of English religion,
of English blood, or of the English tongue. But though the wound will heal,--and that it may
heal ought to be the earnest desire of the whole English name,--history can never cancel the
fatal page which robs England of half the glory and half the happiness of being the mother
of a great nation." Such, I say, was the language addressed to Oxford in the full confidence
that it would be well received.

And now all these clouds seemed to have fairly passed away. Your reception of the Prince of
Wales, the heir and representative of George III., was a perfect pledge of reconciliation.
It showed that beneath a surface of estrangement there still remained the strong tie of blood.
Englishmen who loved the New England as well as the Old were for the moment happy in the belief
that the two were one again. And, believe me, joy at this complete renewal of our amity was
very deeply and widely felt in England. It spread far even among the classes which have shown
the greatest want of sympathy for you in the present war.

England has diplomatic connections--she has sometimes diplomatic intrigues--with the Great
Powers of Europe. For a real alliance she must look here. Strong as is the element of aristocracy
in her Government, there is that in her, nevertheless, which makes her cordial understandings
with military despotisms little better than smothered hate. With you she may have a league
of the heart. We are united by blood. We are united by a common allegiance to the cause of
freedom. You may think that English freedom falls far short of yours. You will allow that it
goes beyond any yet attained by the great European nations, and that to those nations it has
been and still is a light of hope. I see it treated with contempt here. It is not treated with
contempt by Garibaldi. It is not treated with contempt by the exiles from French despotism,
who are proud to learn the English tongue, and who find in our land, as they think, the great
asylum of the free. Let England and America quarrel. Let your weight be cast into the scale
against us, when we struggle with the great conspiracy of absolutist powers around us, and
the hope of freedom in Europe would be almost quenched. Hampden and Washington in arms against
each other! What could the Powers of Evil desire more? When Americans talk lightly of a war
with England, one desires to ask them what they believe the effects of such a war would be
on their own country. How many more American wives do they wish to make widows? How many more
American children do they wish to make orphans? Do they deem it wise to put a still greater
strain on the already groaning timbers of the Constitution? Do they think that the suspension
of trade and emigration, with the price of labor rising and the harvests of Illinois excluded
from their market, would help you to cope with the financial difficulties which fill with anxiety
every reflecting mind? Do they think that four more years of war-government would render easy
the tremendous work of reconstruction? But the interests of the great community of nations
are above the private interests of America or of England. If war were to break out between
us, what would become of Italy, abandoned without help to her Austrian enemy and her sinister
protector? What would become of the last hopes of liberty in France? What would become of the
world?

English liberties, imperfect as they may be,--and as an English Liberal of course thinks they
are,--are the source from which your liberties have flowed, though the river may be more abundant
than the spring. Being in America, I am in England,--not only because American hospitality
makes me feel that I am still in my own country, but because our institutions are fundamentally
the same. The great foundations of constitutional government, legislative assemblies, parliamentary
representation, personal liberty, self-taxation, the freedom of the press, allegiance to the
law as a power above individual will,--all these were established, not without memorable efforts
and memorable sufferings, in the land from which the fathers of your republic came. You are
living under the Great Charter, the Petition of Eight, the Habeas Corpus Act, the Libel Act.
Perhaps you have not even yet taken from us all that, if a kindly feeling continues between
us, you may find it desirable to take. England by her eight centuries of constitutional progress
has done a great work for you, and the two nations may yet have a great work to do together
for themselves and for the world. A student of history, knowing how the race has struggled
and stumbled onwards through the ages until now, cannot believe in the finality and perfection
of any set of institutions, not even of yours. This vast electioneering apparatus, with its
strange machinery and discordant sounds, in the midst of which I find myself,--it may be, and
I firmly believe it is, better for its purpose than anything that has gone before it; but is
it the crowning effort of mankind? If our creed--the Liberal creed--be true, American institutions
are a great step in advance of the Old World; but they are not a miraculous leap into a political
millennium. They are a momentous portion of that continual onward effort of humanity which
it is the highest duty of history to trace; but they are not its final consummation. Model
Republic! How many of these models has the course of ages seen broken and flung disdainfully
aside! You have been able to do great things for the world because your forefathers did great
things for you. The generation will come which in its turn will inherit the fruits of your
efforts, add to them a little of its own, and in the plenitude of its self-esteem repay you
with ingratitude. The time will come when the memory of the Model Republicans of the United
States, as well as that of the narrow Parliamentary Reformers of England, will appeal to history,
not in vain, to rescue it from the injustice of posterity, and extend to it the charities of
the past.

New-comers among the nations, you desire, like the rest, to have a history. You seek it in
Indian annals, you seek it in Northern sagas. You fondly surround an old windmill with the
pomp of Scandinavian antiquity, in your anxiety to fill up the void of your unpeopled past.
But you have a real and glorious history, if you will not reject it,--monuments genuine and
majestic, if you will acknowledge them as your own. Yours are the palaces of the Plantagenets,--the
cathedrals which enshrined our old religion,--the illustrious hall in which the long line of
our great judges reared, by their decisions, the fabric of our law,--the gray colleges in which
our intellect and science found their earliest home,--the graves where our heroes and sages
and poets sleep. It would as ill become you to cultivate narrow national memories in regard
to the past as it would to cultivate narrow national prejudices at present. You have come out,
as from other relics of barbarism which still oppress Europe, so from the barbarism of jealous
nationality. You are heirs to all the wealth of the Old World, and must owe gratitude for a
part of your heritage to Germany, France, and Spain, as well as to England. Still, it is from
England that you are sprung; from her you brought the power of self-government which was the
talisman of colonization and the pledge of your empire here. She it was, that, having advanced
by centuries of effort to the front of the Old World, became worthy to give birth to the New.
From England you are sprung; and if the choice were given you among all the nations of the
world, which would you rather choose for a mother?

