LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE

OCTOBER, 1885.

ON A TEXAS SHEEP-RANCH.

I.

There are words which have careers as well as men, or, perhaps it may be more happily said,
as well as women. Mere words breathed on by Fancy, and sent forth not so much to serve man's
ordinary colloquial uses, apparently, as to fascinate his mind, have their débuts. their season,
their vogue, and finally a period in which it is really too bad if they have not the consolation
of reflecting upon their conquests; for conquests they certainly have. The great captivators--the
Cleopatras of the vocabulary--one easily recognizes; but besides these there is a host of small
flirts and every-day coquettes, whom one hardly suspects till they have a little carried him
away. Almost every one remembers how in this light company he first came across the little
word ranch. It had in its youth distinctly the cachet of the verbal flying squadron, the "nameless
something," the oenanthic whiff which flies to the head. There are signs that its best days
as a word are now over, and in contemplating it at present one has a vision of a passée brunette,
in the costume of Fifine at the Fair, solacing herself with thoughts of early triumphs. "Would
a farm have served?" she murmurs. "Would a plantation, an orange-grove, have satisfied the
desperate young man? No, no; he must have his ranch! There was no charm could soothe his melancholy,
and wring for him the public bosom, save mine."

I made this reflection during a period of incarceration in a sleeping-car,--a form of confinement
which, like any other, throws the prisoner considerably on his fancy; and a vision somewhat
like the above smoothed for a moment the pillow of an "upper berth," and pleased better than
the negro porter. Half a dozen of those days of too many paper novels, of too much tobacco,
of too little else, followed each other with the sameness of so many raw oysters. Then there
came a chill night of wide moonlit vacuity passed on the prairie by the side of the driver
of a "jumper,"--a driver who slumbered, happy man!--and at peep of dawn I found myself standing,
stiff and shivering, in a certain little Texas town. A much-soiled, white little street, a
bit of greenish-yellow, treeless plain soft in the morning mist, a rosy fringe at the edge
of the sky,--it was of these things, together with a disagreeable sense of imponderability
of body from the cold and sleepless ride, that I was vaguely aware as the jumper--rigorous
vehicle!--disappeared round a corner. Frontier towns are not lovely, and the death-like peace
which seemed properly to accompany the chalky pallor of the buildings was somewhat uncanny;
but it proved to be only what sleep can do for a village with railroad influences one hundred
miles away. We entered boldly the adobe before which we had been dropped, and found a genial
landlord in an impromptu costume justified by the hour, an inn-album of quite cosmopolitan
range of inscriptions, and a breakfast for which a week of traveller's fare had amply fortified
the spirit.

The village was the chief, indeed, wellnigh the only, town of a great west-by-north county,
in which Rhode Island would be lost and Massachusetts find elbow-room. It was an irregular
little bunch of buildings gathered along an arterial street which, after a run of three hundred
yards or so, broke to pieces and scattered its dispersed shanties about a high, barren plain.
It stood on the steep bank of a little river, and over against it, on a naked hill, was Uncle
Sam's military village,--a fort by courtesy,--where, when not sleeping, black soldiers and
white strolled about in the warm sun. When the little street was fairly awake, it presented
a very lively appearance and had the air of doing a great deal of business. The wan houses
emitted their occupants, and numerous pink-faced riders, in leathers and broad hats, poured
in from all sides, and, tying their heavily-accoutred ponies, disappeared into the shops with
a sort of bow-legged waddle, like sailors ashore. Off his horse, the cow-boy is frankly awkward.
Purchases made, they departed with a rush, filling the glare with dust. Officers from the post,
with cork helmets and white trousers, came across the river and stood in the broad shadows
of adobe door-ways, gaping, and switching their legs with bamboo canes. "It's magnificent,"
one seemed to hear them mutter, "but it isn't war!" Groups of Mexicans stood about, or, selecting
a white wall, leaned against it, as they are apt to do at home, for the better relief of their
swarthy faces and brilliant scarfs; and slowly moving down the street, stopping occasionally
to speak to the various clusters of men, there went the beneficent if somewhat untidy figure
of the Catholic father, in whose company we had breakfasted, a fat, jolly, anecdotal inheritor
of the mantle of some founder of the Missions. The sun took absolute and merciless possession
of the street. You put your hand in your pocket for the smoked glass through which you observed
the last eclipse. Everything seemed bleached,--the white buildings, the yellow road, the eyebrows
of the cow-boys.

We did the drive of twenty miles to the ranch in a canvas-topped buggy, drawn by a pair of
devil-may-care little nags, who took us across dry arroyos and the rocky beds of running streams
in a style that promised to make sticks of the vehicle. It held good, however, and rattled
out a sort of derisive snicker at every fresh attempt to shiver it. The country through which
we passed afforded views of superb breadth and a most interesting and delightful quality. No
landscape has in the exact sense such charm as one in which Nature manifests herself in a large
and simple way: one feels with a thrill that she is about to tell the secret. The earth lay
almost in its nakedness beneath the inane dome of the sky. But over the large simplicity of
form one was soon aware of an exquisite play of hues. The easy undulations, as they ran off
to the unattainable horizon, were so many waves of delicate and varying color. There were great
sweeps of ochre, of gray, of fresh, light green, pointed with black dots of live-oak, and traversed
by tortuous lines of indigo where the pecan treed creeks pursued their foiled courses, and
troops of little hills grouped themselves about,--pink, pinkish, purple, purpling blue, white,
as they faded from view like the evanescent cherubs in the corner of an old master. The hills,
however, were little only because the stretch was so vast; it was really a broad plafond upon
which they had solemnly entered to dance a minuet with the playful shadows of the clouds. The
sky possessed everything. There was so much of it that existence seemed to have become in a
sense a celestial--or at least an aerial--affair: the world was your balloon.

After the third creek-crossing the road ran straight as an avenue through a broad, level reach,
and we flew along gayly. The little mesquite-trees, prim, dainty, and delicate, stood about
in seeming order, civilizing the landscape and giving it the air of an orchard; the prairie-dog
villages were thrown into a tumult of excitement by our passage; a chaparral-cock slipped out
of a bush, stared an instant, pulled the string that lifts his tail and top-knot, and settled
down for a race directly under the horses' feet. We passed the point of a hill, gained a slight
rise, and the ranch was in sight. It must be confessed that it was not in appearance all that
the name might imply,--not the sort of place for which one starts after having provided one's
self with a navy revolver and a low estimate of the value of human life. It was, in fact, a
very pretty and domestic scene, a little village of half a dozen buildings and a net-work of
white limestone and brush corrals. Shortly I was supping in a neat little cottage, and endeavoring
in the usual way to be agreeable to some one in muslin. In this modern world we change our
skies, truly, but not--not our bric-à-brac. On the walls of the pretty dining-room one beheld
with rising feeling one's old friends the Japanese fan and the discarded plate still clinging
with the touching persistence of the ivy to the oak. To be sure, there was a tall half-breed
Indian moving about with the silent agility of the warpath, but he wore a white apron, and
his hideous intention was to fill one's wineglass. If the longitude had led me to meditate
right buffalo's hump, "washed down" with something coarse and potent enough to justify the
phrase, it was clear that I was painfully behind the stroke of the clock. Life, good lady,
takes an undignified pleasure in arranging these petty shocks to the expectations, which we
soon learn to dismiss with a smile. The cold mutton and ordinaire were excellent, and we had
some coffee and a cigarette on the piazza. The sun was setting far away behind a hill on the
other side of the creek. A soft sound came down the valley from a remote flock of sheep. A
little breeze sprang up and ran tremulously about, shaking the tufted grass and the slim boughs
of the mesquites, and putting some question with a wistfully hopeful swish. Plainly, one could
be very much at home here. The visionary brunette had evidently ranged herself, was living
down the reputation of early vivid experiences and successfully cultivating the domestic virtues.

II.

Six or eight years earlier, four young men had left New York on a Galveston steamer, their
departure being attended by such an assemblage of young women that on the second day out their
companions of the voyage confided the supposition that it had been a "bridal party." That little
Spanish-American word ravaging our coasts and carrying off the pride of the youth has to answer
for many such bridal parties, whose tours have been followed with pins and colored pencils
and eyes more eager than those of mothers-in-law. In a month or so the young men had pitched
a wall-tent within a day's ride of the Rio Grande, and were seriously occupied in sacrificing
each other's feelings on the altar of experimental cookery, in herding sheep with the assistance
of paper novels, and in writing exceedingly long letters to the North. This wall-tent was the
larva of the ranch. But the arid southern country proved inconvenient, and collecting their
effects in a prairie-schooner and driving their flocks before them, they effected a masterly
change of base, which brought them two hundred miles to the northward and set them down in
a delightful pasture-land, watered by three pretty creeks, near one of which they erected an
adobe hut. This solitary house on a broad flat, an object of amazement to wandering hordes
of cattle, was the ranch during a most interesting period, and its thatched roof and somewhat
fetid walls became for the occupants overgrown with fine clusters of association. Within a
few miles of its site the present village took shape.

The country was a frankly monotonous conformation of alternating hills and valleys,--"divides"
and "draws,"--with wide flats near the creeks. Gulches, more or less deep, down the valley-lines
of the draws, and traversing the flats to the creeks,--the so-called arroyos,--were a common
physical feature. In the wet season they were running streams, but for most of the year they
were dry, with here and there a waterhole, flowers and chaparral growing in them, and, at intervals,
pecans. The pecan-trees grew thickly along the borders of the creeks, while the mesquites cloaked
with gossamer wide portions of the flats; and here and there in the valleys and on the sides
of the hills the sombre, self-enwrapped live-oaks stood about, like philosophers musing amid
the general lightness. Spanish-dagger, bear-grass, and persimmon-bushes freckled the sides
of the rocky divides with dark spots, and mistletoe hung its fine green globes like unillumined
lanterns in the branches of the mesquites. Over the plains and slopes a sparse turf of various
grasses, differing in color and changing with the season, gave the airy landscape its brilliant
and versatile complexion. A dozen varieties of cactus, portulaccas, geraniums, petunias, verbenas,
scattered over the prairie, morning-glories and sunflowers in the arroyos and along the creeks,
and many a flower nameless to the general, abounded. So, it should be added, did in their season
plover, snipe, ducks, and geese.

The business of the ranch was the antediluvian occupation of rearing and shearing sheep, and
to that end the village included a shearing-shed and a large wool-house. Besides these there
were three cottages and several other buildings, among which one called the "ranch-house" was
the focus of the activity of the place, and, being also a survival from a comparatively early
day, was a somewhat characteristic affair. It was a box-house, painted red, with a broad porch
thatched with bear-grass, and a saddle-shed butting up against it. The interior, barring a
little store at one end, was a single large room, bedroom, sitting-room, office, furnished
with home-made tables with blankets for cloths, knocked-up chairs with cowhide seats and coyote-skin
backs, deers' antlers draped with "slickers" (Texan for the 'longshoreman's yellow water-proof)
and wide-brimmed "ten-dollar" hats, and at one end two tiers of bunks, with leather cases for
six-shooters nailed to their sides. This room served for the abode of the storekeeper, for
the transaction of business, and for the accommodation of the perennial casual guest. It was
rude, but, especially of evenings about the lamp, it had a marked air of pipe-and-tobacco comfort.

The little store was patronized by the cow-boy, so much abused with sensational or picturesque
intentions, and by the small farmers with irrigation patches in the vicinity. It was likewise
the resort of Encarnacion and Tomas, and others their brethren, from the Mexican village a
few miles up the creek, or from isolated abiding-places round about. Here they would come,
and, rolling cigarettes of the brown paper they affect and the eleemosynary tobacco open on
the counter, to which all were welcome (such were the amenities of shopping on the ranch),
they would lounge about, ever smiling and chattering in soft voices, finally to say 'uenos
dias with two bits' worth of bacon, or corn-meal, or pink candy for the chiquitas. Here, too,
would come Tomasa, and, with even more than usual feminine zeal in matters of dress, at once
try on the ready-made calico gown she purchased, while the store-keeper smoked his pipe and
stroked his beard.

Excepting the cow-boys, the people composing the clientage of the store were for the most part
resident in one of two farm-settlements located on the creek, about ten miles apart, one exclusively
Mexican, the other almost entirely "white." Besides these, the families of many of the Mexican
hands lived close by. These last were constantly assisting conversation at the cottages with
such incidents as the following:

The cook--a tall, gaunt negro of a mediaevally "intense" nature--came in with an excited manner,
followed by Madame Alguin, very much troubled, wringing her hands, and dissolved in tears.

"Panchot's little boy," said the cook, "is killed."

We were naturally aghast. Little Panchot had been colero at the recent shearing.

"Is he dead?" we queried hoarsely.

"He was dead," replied the cook, with seriousness: "he is not dead now."

With this light and delicate touch the cook swept the gamut of our emotions from awe at little
Panchot's sudden taking off to pleasure at his speedy resurrection. We repaired at once to
Madame Alguin's residence to view the subject of this miracle: lest the miracle should not
be so complete as one might wish, we carried with us a little hartshorn and Pond's extract.
Madame Alguin's villa was a fine wide-spreading live-oak, with a tent as a sort of annex, about
two minutes from the ranch. On our arrival we found four Mexican women, seven children, one
man, three dogs, four goats, and several roosters, gathered round the form of little Panchot
stretched beneath the live-oak. A fire smouldered a little way off, and a cradle hung from
the branch of the fatherly tree. Little Panchot had a nasty cut about an inch long through
his cheek. He had been herding his goats on the bank of the creek when he was knocked over
by a stone from the other side. He swooned,--then he was dead; he came to,--and, presto, he
was alive again. He was soon running about with his wonted friskiness, and making himself useful
in chasing wild tennis-balls. This little boy's mother was, poor woman, very much of a sloven,
but he had a string of little sisters who were as nice as could be. They went about in white
cotton gowns--amazingly clean, considering that they lived under a tree--tied at the waist
with red scarfs; their black hair was smoothly gathered at the backs of their pretty heads,
and they had a demure and quaintly maternal air; they looked at you with a tranquil, moon-like
gaze, which seemed to say that their ideas, which were on the way, had tarried for the moment
in some boon southern country.

III.

In riding about the range it was very pleasant to find, as one constantly did, by the side
of some "motte" (Texan for a considerable cluster of scrub growth), or beneath the shade of
a great live-oak, or on the barren face of a divide, the little canvas A-tents of the herders,
nestled cosily to circular pens for the sheep, and generally surrounded by brush to prevent
the intrusion of inquisitive cattle. Within the tent a sheepskin or so, stretched on the ground
or on a lattice of branches, for his bed, and without, a padlocked chest, with a coffee mill
screwed to the top, in which he keeps his rations, a skillet and a few other utensils hanging
from the branches of a neighboring tree, a whitened buffalo's skull for a metate, a smouldering
fire,--this little spot, with its surrounding fence shutting out the solitude, is the herder's
palace, schloss, villa, town-and country-house. "Seguro," says Juan, as he lights a brown cigarette
and quenches the yellow fuse in an empty cartridge-shell, "man wants but little here below."
They were a genial and hospitable set, the herders, and if one arrived about mid-day they would
regale him with scraps of jerked beef, a cake of unleavened bread cooked in the skillet, and
coffee which, considering what it was made of, was a very inspiring drink. In particular I
recall the pastor Patricio, a very pretty fellow, with curly black hair and black eyes, a fine
nose with a patrician lift to the nostrils, a little black moustache bristling like a cat's
on a smiling lip, a red handkerchief about his neck: he was very voluble of soft words, and
made the waste blossom with his distinguished manner. A dozen of these camps were to be discovered
about the range, and the brush fences and unused corrals of many more, which had been used
and would be used again as the sheep were moved from grazing-ground to grazing-ground and portions
of the range temporarily exhausted.

From his camp the herder goes forth at daybreak with his flock of fourteen hundred ewes and
lambs or two thousand wethers, grazing slowly toward the creek or neighboring water-hole where
at noon he lies up in the shade; and to it he slowly returns in the cool of the afternoon,
the flock moving in loose order among the mesquites, taking a nip here, a nip there, but ever
hanging together and dependent, the most gregarious of animals. In their unity of action, in
their interdependence and solidarity, the timid sheep are capable of a momentary suggestion
of awe. About weaning-time a couple of large flocks got temporarily together, and one could
see driven by the herder a compact mass of four thousand advancing over the prairie with a
quick step, "a unit in aggregate, a simple in composite," their impassible countenances gazing
fixedly forward, resembling, it seemed to me, a brigade going into action. For most of the
year it is thought by no means advisable to fold the sheep in the corral at night, so they
sleep at large near it. Especially on moonlight nights they are apt to be uneasy and to move
from their bed-ground short distances, when the herder quits his tent, and, rolling a cigarette,
follows his fanciful flock about the blanched and wistful prairie till they subside; then,
throwing his cloak over his shoulder with the swing of an hidalgo, he falls asleep beside them.

The herder's incidents are the fortnightly arrival of his rations and the weekly or possibly
more frequent visit of the superintendent to count and examine his flock and inquire after
the general condition of things. The Mexican herder invariably denies all knowledge of English
and compels one to meet him on his own ground, which, it is needless to say, is a far cry from
Castile; and in encounters between Juan and the superintendent the fine feathers of syntax
are apt to fly in a way I shall not attempt to reproduce.

"Good-afternoon, Juan," says the superintendent.

"Good-afternoon, señor."

"How's the flock, Juan?"

"Oh, pretty well, señor."

"No better than pretty?"

"No, señor."

"How's that?"

And then Juan goes on to explain that the recent unusually wet weather has made many lame,
etc., etc., to which the superintendent listens with a grave countenance. Perhaps some unfortunate
ewe has been bitten by a "cat," or in some way received a wound in which the fly has deposited
its malignant egg: they lay her on her side and doctor her in company. Finally, the superintendent
gives the herder some tobacco, some cigarette-papers, and a couple of yards of yellow fuse,
and, mounting his horse, nods farewell, and Juan touches his hat, smiles, and says, "Adios."

In the ordinary course of events this is his weekly allowance of human intercourse. It was
the common opinion that none but Juan and his brethren could stand this sort of thing; but
what there is in the Mexican character that adapts him to it only becomes a mystery on acquaintance
therewith. His most obvious and, one inclines to think, his highest and most estimable quality
is his sociability. He has a sense of the agreeableness of life, with a very considerable feeling
for manners. This feeling makes it a pleasure for him to meet you; it causes him to put himself
into the most commonplace conversation, the simplest greeting, and make it, in his small way,
a matter of art. It makes it a pleasure for him to call upon a friend beneath the shade of
some live-oak or in a dugout or jacal, carrying some white sugar for his wife or some candy
for his little ones. Our instinctive disposition to infer deplorable lacunae in the region
of morals from the possession of a talent for manners is in the case of the poor Mexican too
thoroughly justified. For him there is no such region; it is an undiscovered country. He is
the lightest of light-weights. When his heart is warmest he is tossing a silver dollar in the
air and thinking; of monte. Cimental herded industriously during the winter, and became the
proud possessor of a horse and saddle, a Winchester, and a big ivory-handled pistol. In May,
shearing going on, he drove his flock to the shearing-shed, and spent the night at the ranch.
In the morning he came into the store laughing. What about? Oh, he had had a little monte over-night,
and horse, saddle, rifle, revolver, all were gone. He had been shorn of half a year's growth.
But there was still a large deposit at his bank,--the bank of Momus.

The herder has, of course, his "consolatory interstices and sprinklings of freedom;" he undoubtedly
mitigates his solitary life by frequent derelictions, nightly visits to the farm--settlements
(or the jacal) which a few possess, and where he keeps, possibly, a wife and family. But, on
the whole, his life, and not unfrequently his death, is lonely, Just before shearing-time Juan
Lucio and his flock were lost. The flock was found, but not Juan. It was impossible to say
what had become of him: he had a reputation for steadiness, and it seemed unlikely that he
had taken French leave. When shearing was in full swing, a couple of freighters came for a
load of wood. After some talk, they drove off to camp, a little way up the creek, proposing
to return in the morning. About sunset they were seen slowly approaching the shearing-shed,
It seemed that in watering their horses they had seen a man in the creek. The small freighter
imparted this information in a low voice, with some hesitation and a deprecatory half-smile.
The young and large freighter stood aloof, with a half-smile too, but he had evidently found
the sensation disagreeably strong. This, it seemed certain, must be the lost Juan Lucio. The
next day, which was Sunday, the ranchmen and a county officer proceeded toward the scene of
the discovery. The shearers heard of the affair, and paused in the arrangement of a horse-race.
They went in a body to the store and purchased candles, and then the motley cavalry coursed
over the prairie after the rest. They lifted Juan Lucio from the river and bore him to a live-oak
tree, where the coroner and his jurymen debated his situation. They inclined to think that
he had come to his death by drowning. Then the Mexicans dug a grave for him, and stood a moment
round it with their candles lighted; each lifted a handful of earth and tossed it in. Finally,
they covered the prairie-grave with brush to protect it from the coyotes, and rode slowly home
in twos and threes. About a month after, a young Mexican rode into the ranch: he had ridden
from San Anton, two hundred miles away, to put a board cross above his father's grave, marked
for him by the store-keeper, "Juan Lucio, May, 1884."

The herders on the ranch were all Mexicans, and throughout the county it was generally so.
An old Scotchman who paused one moment to smoke a pipe beneath the porch was a solitary instance
to the contrary. He was a most markedly benevolent-looking old man, and had about him that
copious halo of hair with which benevolence seems to delight to surround itself. He had also
about him the halo of American humor, having just been up to answer a charge of murder, in
another county, of which he was extravagantly innocent. He carried a crook, as seemed fitting,
and had with him two sheep-dogs, one of which the kindly man assured us he had frequently cured
of a recurrent disease by cutting off pieces of its tail. This sacrificial part having been
pretty well used up, the beast's situation in view of another attack was very ticklish. And
it had, in fact, the air of occupying the anxious-seat. The Mexican, it may be added, uses
neither dog nor crook. He may have a cur or pillone to share his solitude, but its function
is purely social: for catching sheep there is his lariat. He is measurably faithful and trustworthy,
a careful observer of his flock, and quick to appreciate their troubles. Of course he loses
sheep semi-occasionally, causing those long sheep-hunting rides among the hills which the ranchman
curses and the visitor enjoys; and occasionally in winter on cold nights he is overpowered
by the temptation to visit a friend, the whole flock gets astray, and, fearing consequences,
Juan, not stopping to fold his tent like the Arab, silently steals away.

IV.

The busiest periods of the sheepman's year are the lambing- and shearing-seasons. The first
begins early in March, when the little mesquite-trees are of a feathery greenness and the brown
gramma and mesquite grass are beginning to freshen, and lasts about six weeks. It is an exacting
time for the conscientious proprietor. He says good-by to his cottage, and goes off to camp
with a small army of Mexicans, who, proof against the toils of the day, make night crazy with
singing, dancing, and uncontrollable hilarity. He is as much concerned about the weather as
a sailor or one in conversation's straits. His terror is the long, cold storm which covers
the grass with a hopeless coating of ice. The weakened ewe cannot graze, and the norther comes
down with a bitter sweep to devastate the starved flock.

The camp is pitched within easy reach of the bed-grounds of two ewe-flocks, each of twelve
hundred, who absorb all the attention of the superintendent and his numerous aids. Each flock
goes out on the range at daybreak under the charge of two herders. The ewes that have dropped
lambs over-night are retained in the corral with their offspring for about six hours, or till
afternoon, when the lamb should be in possession of sufficient strength to move about; then
the ewes go forth slowly to graze, followed by their chiquitas. The unnatural mothers who deny
their children are caught, with a lariat by a Mexican, with a crook by a Yankee, and confined
in separate little pens alone with their lambs. If necessary to compel them to acknowledge
their maternal responsibilities, they are kept in solitary confinement two days, without food.
If still obdurate at the end of these two days, mother and child, marked with red chalk or
tagged alike with bright cloth, are turned out, the herder in charge of the solitaries "roping"
the ewe for the convenience of the lamb whenever the latter indicates a desire for nourishment.

The flock grazing out on the range will have gone by noon perhaps a mile from the bed-ground.
Here a little corral is made, and the lambs born in the vicinity, with their mothers, are penned
here over-night, one of the two herders sleeping with them. In the afternoon the remaining
herder takes the flock grazing back to the bed-ground. The next day, with many more to follow,
repeats the routine of this and its incidents. The lambs and good mothers of a period of twenty-four
hours are bunched together and placed a little remote from the bed-ground, with a little pen
and a herder to themselves: they constitute a so-called "baby-flock." After five days the lambs
lose their tails and have their ears punched and marked; on the sixth day they are still farther
removed from their native spot, placed in charge of a strange herder, and become the nucleus
of a so-called "lamb-flock," which, fed from many sources, grows till it includes six hundred
ewes, with their lambs, when it is a full flock, and is in its turn removed and the formation
of a new lamb-flock begun. During the six days' novitiate of a baby-flock five other such flocks
have been formed: so that, somewhat remotely round about the main pen at the bed-ground of
each flock, there are six baby-flocks, with their pens and herders and several little prison-pens
for unnatural mothers, with other little pens in which mothers bereft by death of their proper
children are confined with the extra twin lambs of prolific ewes, clad in the lost ones' skins,
in the sure hope that they will adopt them. The ruse may be said never to fail. The solitary-confinement
pens are in the charge of still another herder, a much perplexed and irritated man, on whose
part considerable swearing--Mexican for small ills, English for serious occasions--is to be
excused. A superintendent of two lambing ewe-flocks, it will thus be seen, has to oversee eighteen
herders or so, with their charges, besides the growing lamb-flock, all more or less distant
from each other. He is a busy man. His head-quarters, like those of General Pope, may be said
to be in the saddle. His note-book is in constant use. It contains a record of each day's births
and deaths, of the twins (which are tagged or marked alike for easy identification) and the
still-born, that each bereft mother may be provided with a foster-child, and the daily count
of the daily-changing flocks.

The first lamb born starts the refrain, to be taken up as the season waxes by thousands of
others scattered over the range, and swollen into a roaring, shrieking chorus, as though an
enormous public school had just turned its urchins into the play-ground. A listener standing
in the hall of the Stock Exchange gets some faint idea of it when there has been a serious
break in Lake Shore, say, or when C.C.C.&I. has "gone off" a considerable number of points.
Out of these thousands of voices, not to be differentiated by the human ear, the ewe knows
the note of her little one with very remarkable certainty, and the lamb the answering cry of
its dam. With this sound ringing in his ears, and daily becoming more and more insufferable
from monotony and increase, the sheep-man rides out in the morning among his Mexicans, and
returns to camp at night aweary, with haply a couple of little ones abandoned by their mothers
in his arms, to be brought up on that pis-aller of infancy,--and, alas! occasionally of age,--the
bottle.

V.

When the prickly pear had made a golden garden of the prairie and the heart of Cereus phoeniceus
was warm with the intention of lighting its gorgeous crimson torch on the divides; when the
arroyo, but lately a pretty streamlet, had told wellnigh all its beads to the sun-god, and
had but here and there in its parched length an isolated pool; when the flock at noon no longer
flushed the last teal from the creek, because that lingering bird had finally winged its way
toward Manitoba or some other favorite retreat northerly,--at this time the constant wind,
gentle but never-failing, and almost always from the south, was overweighted with a roar of
multitudinous bleating and befouled with dust; for shearing was going on at the ranch. It is
a very picturesque occupation, but it soils the most delightful season of the year, the fresh
month of May, with a fortnight of dusty toil, anticipating the sun, and not halting promptly
on his setting.

The shearing-shed lay somewhat apart from the other ranch buildings, with a system of pens
at its back, with chutes and swinging wickets for "cutting out" lambs from their mothers destined
for the shears, and other incidental purposes. The shed was a roof of bearded mesquite-grass,
stayed by boughs and supported on live-oak or pecan posts, the outside or bounding rows of
which were sheathed up with boards four feet or so, the remainder space up to the roof being
open for draught. On these boards Baleriano Torres, Secundino Ramon, and others their companions
of the shears, who had worked and played beneath this shade in springs past, had written their
names in large characters of stencil-ink. One could see in the county roofs made of fresh boughs,
through which the sunlight sifted, flecking the swarthy faces and arms of the shearers and
the mantles of the sheep with a very picturesque effect; but it is probably best to resist
the temptation to treat the shearing-shed as an artistic composition. The ground-plan of the
shed was one hundred feet or so long by twenty-five wide. The floor was of trampled earth,
and on it were placed shearing-tables, s s s, and burring-and tying-tables, B B. The shearing-tables
were about fifteen inches high, the burring-tables high enough for a man to stand up to. It
is the custom in many parts of the country to shear on the floor. In Mr. Hardy's picturesque
novel, "Far from the Madding Crowd," the shearers shear in a cathedral-like barn, on a shining
black-oak floor,--probably for purposes of contrast. Round the ranch, however, shearers preferred
very generally the low wooden tables. The space back of the shearing-tables was occupied, when
shearing was going on, by a "bunch" of sheep admitted through the movable panels from a pen
containing the unshorn: after shearing, they departed through the panels into another pen,
and eventually over the prairie to their pleasant grazing-grounds, angular and grotesque in
appearance, but happy, their troubles past, their year's chief purpose served.

The shearers this year were a band of forty or so Mexicans from Uvalde and other border towns,
jollily travelling two hundred miles up the country in charge of a capitan and grande capitan
responsible fellows, who had contracted with the ranchmen of the neighborhood to do their shearing.
Early in May we heard of them on the creeks, and made preparation for them, the shed and corrals
being put to rights in every detail, the supply of bacon and frijoles augmented at the store,
and all hands, including the stranger within the gates, set to hemming wool-sacks with coarse
twine and sailors' needles. One evening, but shrewdly in time for supper, a couple of Mexicans
on horses, thridding their way through the mesquites, came into the ranch, quickly followed
by others, one or two on burros, more on ponies, most on the skeleton of a prairieschooner
drawn by four horses,--and the shearers had arrived. They were a dark, black-eyed, hilarious
set, some forty odd in all, rather ragged as a crew, but with extremes of full and neat attire
or insufficient tatters according as the goddess Fortune or the Mexican demi-goddess Monte
had smiled or frowned; but all were equally jolly, and almost all fiercely armed, the greatest
tatterdemalion and sans-culotte of all with a handsome Winchester, in a case, slung over brown
shoulders that would have been better for a whole shirt. The hat, though cheap, was, even among
the ragged, frequently elaborate, and served excellently to carry off a protruding toe or knee,
or to reconcile the association in one person of an ancient boot with a still more ancient
shoe. Many of these fellows were undoubtedly trustworthy, other some as undoubtedly, if they
had had consciences, would have had homicides on them; but all were light-hearted. Life is
one thing to the man who lets the breath out of his companion with a knife, and, leaving his
body in the brush, straightway goes about his idleness laughing, and quite another to him who
cannot get over the hideous fact that he has tied his cravat awry.

On the morning of the first day we turned out at four o'clock, and, while we were getting a
dew-bite of crackers and a sip of coffee, el capitan circulated among the recumbent figures
that had dotted the prairie over-night: with a shake and a pull of the big hat by way of toilet,
they proceeded in twos and threes toward the shearing-shed, their shears in their hands and
all their personal property in weapons dangling about them. The burrers, too, Mexicans hired
in the neighborhood, put in an appearance and ranged themselves behind their tables, A flock
had been penned at the shed over-night, and, while a fraction of it was being driven through
the movable panels into the space behind the shearing--table, the shearers were ranged along
it by the captain: they hung up their rifles and revolvers to the posts, some their hats and
jackets, and fell to chattering, lighting their cigarettes, and sharpening their shears. When
the supply of sheep was in and the panels closed, the captain gave the shrill cry, "Vaminos"
and all hands rushed in among the frightened animals and dragged out their chosen victims by
the leg. They showed great shrewdness in selecting the small, the light-woolled, the easy-to-be-shorn.
"The loud clapping of the shears" at once filled the shed, and it was not five minutes before
a light fleece was tossed upon the burring-table, and a grinning fellow came running up to
the ranchman seated in a chair thereon, the better to supervise affairs, and called out, "Check-e!"
amid vivas for the first sheep shorn. He received a tin token, which he thrust into his pocket,
and plunged over the low platform after another sheep. Calls of "Cole!" "Colero" "Cole, muchacho,
echale" began to ring out, and, with an answering call of "Onde?" ("Where?"), two little, laughing
Mexican boys, with tumbled, curly black wigs, and cheeks like bronzed peaches, darted about
with boxes of powdered charcoal, and clapped a pinch of it on the cut made by careless shears.
The burrers threw out the fleeces smooth upon the table, and, one on either side, patted them
over with their hands to discover the cockle-burrs entangled in the wool; these removed, they
folded and rolled the fleeces up with care and handed them to a man who, with the aid of a
small, square box, tied them tightly with two strings, and tossed them out of the shed, where
they were received by the ranchman who was grading the wool and supervising the packing.

The packing was done in two frames, seven feet high, in which an iron ring held the sacks open.
To a man on one of these frames the fleeces in their compact little bundles were tossed up,
and he trod them down, packing them in the sack. Then the sack was let down, sewed up, rolled
to the scales and weighed, marked with the ranch-mark, the weight, the grade, and was ready
for the freighters and a market. About ten thousand pounds of wool were sheared, burred, packed,
marked, and perhaps shipped, in a day.

Inside and out, seventy men were at work about the shed: the fleeces rapidly piled up on the
burring-tables; tied and tossed out, they grew into little mountains, and around the scales
for a wide space the packed sacks cumbered the ground. The ranchmen moved about to see that
coal was used where needed, and that it was not needed too frequently, that fleeces were not
broken, and were thoroughly burred and nicely tied; and the Mexicans, ceaselessly chattering,
singing, laughing, calling jokes to each other, crying, "Viva Rito!" "Viva Encarnacion!" ran
for their checks, dashed in for their sheep, and kept the shears clashing, while the perplexed
ewe, with an uproar perhaps more distinctly justifiable, called to the lamb she had left in
the pen, and the lamb answered cry for cry. All this went on in a strong south wind heavy with
dust and the acrid sheep smell. It was the liveliest possible spectacle of organized confusion,
and the accompanying noise was calculated to split the ears of the groundlings. As the number
unshorn of the installment of sheep in the pen dwindled toward zero, little groups of unoccupied
shearers gathered round the posts near the low tables, lit fresh cigarettes, whipped out cards,
and started a little game of monte for the checks they had in their pockets, continuing till
the captain's revenons à nos moutons once more started their shears. The sun crept up in the
sky, a fitting cessation occurred, and, a ranchman having given the signal, a tide set in for
the cook-house and breakfast.

In Mr. Hardy's story, just mentioned, his hero performs rather a feat in shearing three and
a half pounds of washed wool in twenty-three and one-half minutes, A Mexican would have to
take a reef in his big hat if he could not do better than that. His tin check is worth four
and a half cents to him, and a fair hand ought to have at least fifty in his pocket at sunset,
in return for as many seven-pound unwashed fleeces,--always provided he has not sacrificed
them to monte during the day. A first-rate man will have seventy, and, if called upon to show
what he is made of, will shear a heavy-woolled wether in six minutes. At evening each shearer
turns in his checks, and receives in return a signed paper with his name and their number.

The interior of the shed when shearing is at its height commends itself very forcibly to the
attention of the artist. The heaps of fleeces, mellow masses of gray, yellow, and white, the
throng of anxious sheep, watching with painful interest their companions struggling in the
swarthy arms of the stalwart, bare-chested shearers, saddles, broad sombreros, whips, and weapons
grouped in so many pendent escutcheons of the great Mexican vagabond family, the flitting coleritos,
the scarfed shearers themselves, all are so many veritable "bits." But it is not only that
the details are good: they compose admirably about the long aisle, with here and there a dagger
of sharp light thrust into the shade, and without, the luminous clouds of dust. The shearer
puts one foot on the low table, the neck of the sheep resting over his knee, and its fleece
rolling off like a robe; his broad chest is thrown out, his head back, his nostrils vent smoke
like an angry god's, and his glancing white teeth, disclosed in a broad smile, tightly grip
a cigarette. He is chattering, laughing, smoking: incidentally he is shearing.

The presence of the shearers at the ranch causes a flutter in surrounding Mexican society.
They are known to be keen hands, viveurs, jolly good fellows withal, and, moreover, men who
can wrestle with wethers ten hours a day (no light task on the muscles) and yet have spirit
to dance and play all night. So, at evening, the jacals--the little farms and settlements on
the creek--are likely to send forth a contingent bound for the cook-house and a night of it.
A harp and an accordion are found, and to the sharply-marked music produced by this combination
an impromptu baile forms itself. The swarthy sombreros clutch each other, and hop about, their
spurs gleaming and jangling, their pistols sticking out behind like incipient tails; and soon
the baile overflows the kitchen, and the glowing cigarette-tips circle like fire-flies to the
music in the dark night-air without. In a corner, against the salt-house, by the light of a
fire, a group is gathered round a blanket spread on the ground, with little piles of silver
before them, over the always-absorbing monte; and other groups are very harmlessly singing.
By midnight the music dies away and the dancing ceases, but the sombreros bend over the monte
blanket and the silver clinks on it till morning.

About two weeks with days and nights of this character sufficed, with slight interruptions
occasioned by bad weather, to get one hundred thousand pounds of wool off the backs of the
sheep. On Sunday the shearers would not work: the day was sacred--to pleasure. The store was
thronged with purchasers, the cook-house became the temple of monte, the road a race-track.
The ranch had the air of a fête. The races were short rushes with horses started with a jab
of the spur or thwack of the cuerta, to see who first should cross a line scratched in the
dust, at either end of which a throng kneeled and craned forward and held out silver dollars
and called bets.

At length the last sheep was shorn, the last sack marked, the pools on that interesting figure,
the total clip of the year, decided, and the shearers in motley tableau assembled in the ranch-house,
before the table, to have their paper slips redeemed. They did not understand checks on San
Antonio banks; they "didn't want paper;" they had a rather praiseworthy doubt of green-backs;
they wanted the solid dinero,--the "Buzzard," the "Trade," or the radiant Mexican peso. Toward
midnight it ceased to be a laughing-matter, paying off, and one was glad to turn in even in
an atmosphere heavy with cigarette-smoke and not over-fragrant. Next morning the shearers leisurely
saddled up and disappeared through the brush, the Grande Capitan and Capitan lifting their
hats with grace and dignity and calling, "Adios!" They left a rather relaxed ranch, with a
marked tendency toward hammocks and long siestas, varied with a little mild lawn-tennis at
evening in an old corral, which, by the way, with its surrounding fence to stop the balls,
made in many respects an admirable court.

VI.

Toward the end of August the pluvial god, assisted by the physical characteristics of the region,
provided us with a genuine sensation. Hitherto we had had mere weather; this was a pronounced
case of meteorology: until then I had taken no special satisfaction in the word. It had been
raining frequently during the month, in quite unusual volume; the arroyos were pretty brooks,
the sides of the divides wept, and there were wide, soft places on the prairies; the flocks
went very lame from the excessive dampness, and riding was a splashing and spattering business;
but the oldest inhabitant dropped no hint suggestive of the veritable meteorological coup which
was quietly preparing.

We retired one night in our usual unsuspecting frame of mind, and awoke next morning to hear
above the dull reverberation of the rain the booming of a torrent. The arroyo near the ranch
was no longer an arroyo, but a stream fifty feet wide; and on the hither side of the pecan-trees
of the creek could be seen a silver line: the water had already surpassed the banks. Before
noon there was neither creek nor arroyo, but a river a mile wide rushing down the valley: we
knew where the trees had been, by the swirling waves. A flood is like those serpents which
fascinate before they strike. The monotonous rain failing ohne Hast, ohne Rast, the dead immutable
murk of the sky, the rush of gray wave after wave, induced a state of dull lethargic wonder:
the feet--the foot more, would it accomplish that? Already the floor of the ranch-house was
under water. But there was soon a sufficient dashing about of riders in long yellow oil-skin
coats, and all was done that the situation seemed to demand or admit of. The culminating moment
of the day came toward two in the afternoon, when we stood on the roof of the ranch-house,
with our eyes glued to a sulphur-colored patch a mile up the valley. It was a flock of sheep
congregated on an unsubmerged knoll in the middle of the torrent. There was a sudden movement
in the mass, the sulphur patch vanished, and there was borne to us distinctly a long, plaintive
cry: the flock had been swept away. In a few minutes, however, we caught sight of many of them
swimming admirably, and, much to our astonishment, they found a desperate footing opposite
the ranch across the swift sweep of the arroyo. A dozen Mexicans were equal to the emergency.
They stripped, threw themselves in, stemmed the current, and, with amazing pluck and fortitude,
worked about amid the submerged cactus and chaparral, which must have wounded them savagely,
holding the sheep together. Finally, after desperate urging, a wether was induced to breast
the rush of the arroyo and landed safely high and dry on the hither bank, when, thanks to their
disposition to follow a leader, all plunged in, and, after a vigorous push, found their perils
at an end. But the count showed some six hundred missing.

It ceased raining toward four o'clock, and the sun set in great splendor. The next day the
water had quite subsided, and I went, unsuccessfully, after plover over the bed of yesterday's
river, but the beauty of the creek had been destroyed for the season. And farther down, where
the flood had come at midnight, it had swept away many lives.

In November, when the broom on the sides of the hills was a fine pink-brown, and when the wet
places which the flood had left abounded in jack-snipe and afforded the neatest shooting in
the world, I turned my back upon the ranch, where I had been very prodigal of the best of riches,--"the
loose change of time." I did so with a warm feeling of regret,--a feeling somewhat tempered
by the thought that I should soon be in a region of homes, constant greetings, and the morning
newspapers. But after a few weeks of the morning newspapers it has been borne in upon me that
a great deal is to be said for the place which does not know them.

E.C. REYNOLDS.

THE LADY LAWYER'S FIRST CLIENT.

TWO PARTS.

I.

Mrs. Tarbell sat in her office, pretending to read a law-journal, but really looking at her
name on the office door; and she was not without justification, perhaps, seeing that it had
taken her six years to get it there. Furthermore, though it was six weeks since it had been
lettered upon the glass panel, she had as yet found nothing to do but look at it. She was at
last a lawyer; she had triumphed over prejudice and ridicule; and a young lawyer has three
privileges,--he may write Esquire after his name, he is exempt from jury duty, and he can wait
for clients. Mrs. Tarbell had always been exempt from jury duty, and her brother told her that,
historically speaking, she ought to be called equestrienne, if she was to have any title: so
it seemed that it was only left to her to wait for clients and contemplate her sign. The sign
read,--

Ellen G. Tarbell, Alex. H. Juddson, Attorneys-at-Law. Commissioner for Colorado.

Mrs. Tarbell had been a Miss Juddson before her marriage with ---- Tarbell, Esq. (of Hinson
& Tarbell, mourning goods), and Mr. Alexander H. Juddson was her brother. When Mr. Tarbell
died, his widow told her family and friends that she was going to read law.

Mrs. Tarbell had always been a woman of progressive notions, but this was going too far. Her
family and some of her friends were short-sighted enough to attempt to argue the general question,--namely,
ought women to have Rights? When Mrs. Tarbell proved to them that they were both unfair and
illogical, they then said that, though they had no objection to other women making lawyers
of themselves, they did not see the necessity in her case.

Mrs. Tarbell replied that she must get a living; and it was quite true that the late Tarbell
had failed a few months before his death, leaving his widow rather poorly off; for he had not
put his property in her name before making an assignment. And Mrs. Tarbell went on to say that,
as she could not be a nurse, and would not be a governess or keep a boarding-house, she would
read law. It was reported at the time that Mr. Juddson said he hoped his sister would go and
read law, if anywhere, in Colorado, for which State it was he, of course, who was the commissioner;
but, whether this report were true or not, Mrs. Tarbell stayed at home and pursued her studies
under his direction.

After going through all sorts of examinations, at which she flung herself determinedly, and
which she kept on passing with the greatest credit, after meeting with innumerable disappointments
and delays, after being politely told by one judge after another that she was a woman, and
therefore could not be a man,--hence, a fortiori, she could not be a lawyer,--after six years,
I say, Mrs. Tarbell succeeded. Her name went on the list of attorneys. The court-clerk gave
her a certificate, and received two dollars and sixty cents. The newspapers chronicled the
circumstance. Her friends were triumphant. Judge Measy, who admitted her to the bar, was compared
to Lord Mansfield and to Mr. Lincoln.

But marriage is not the only lofty undertaking attended by petty miseries. Mrs. Tarbell could
bear her great misfortunes with courage and resolution: as she had great hopes, so she expected
great disasters. Not Lars Porsenna of Clusium himself was more clapped on the back, and huzzahed
after, and backed up by the augurs, nor more frequently told that he was the beloved of heaven,
than Mrs. Tarbell had been by her soothsayers and partisans. At first this was all very well,
but afterward it grew tiresome. If Mrs. Tarbell, emerging from widowhood and placing herself
in the van of feminine progress, was really a pioneer in a heaven sent mission (as perhaps
she was), there was no need to repeat the phrase so often. When two or three years had gone
by, and it began to be apparent that Mrs. Tarbell had a long and up-hill struggle before her,
she became very impatient of enthusiasm. She had never liked it, even when the female welkin
(if there be such a thing) had first rung with applause for her, and now it was painfully uncomfortable.
Mrs. Lucretia Pegley (authoress of "Woman's Wrongs," "The Weaker Sex?" "Eve v. Adam," etc.,
etc., editor of "Woman's Sphere," and chief contributor to the "Coming Era;" her friends called
her a Boadicea, and denied that she had withdrawn from the study of medicine because she had
fainted at her first operation),--Mrs. Pegley observed her friend's shortness of temper, and
took her to task about it. "Ellen Tarbell," she said, "you surprise me very much. Do you wish
to give the impression that your motives are purely personal and--forgive me, but the word
is necessary--selfish? that you have no interest in the movement in which you are a pioneer?
that your heart is not with the cause which after so many years of weary waiting looks to you
for advancement? Mr. Botts is a most worthy and indefatigable man; perhaps a trifle too much
addicted to repetition for the sake of rhetorical effect,--a thing, I admit, very trying; but
it is of the highest importance (I say this between ourselves, of course, and you may imagine
that I would not give publicity to such a statement),--it is of the highest importance that
the feelings of our--hem--masculine colleagues should not be--"

"Yes, yes," interrupted Mrs. Tarbell hastily, "I appreciate that fully, I assure you. But yesterday
evening I was rather tired, and I--"

"Tired!" said Mrs. Pegley, in the voice of acute anguish which caused her to be known as a
woman of the most extraordinary intensity of convictions. "It is a wonder we are not all in
our graves," she added, in tones whose sombre depth was brightened by a little colloquial levity,
for she felt that she had been too severe with Mrs. Tarbell. "Still," she continued, "after
Mr. Bott's very flattering remarks you might have spoken with a little more--er--earnestness
and--er--vigor yourself, you know. And for such an audience as we had last night, three minutes
is really--"

After this, Mrs. Tarbell resolved that her next effort at public speaking should be made before
an American jury, or not at all. Indeed, she went so far as to think it a great mistake to
suppose that woman's cause could not be advanced without calling meetings and haranguing them
till eleven o'clock at night. Very likely her ideals were still of the highest order, and certainly
she still hoped that when women were allowed to practise law the law would be so changed that
you would hardly recognize it; but she wanted to carry on her part of the work occultly and
quietly. She had got over a good many of her own illusions, and she was taking a more practical
view of life. She smiled when she thought of the prophecies which had been made about her,
and she no longer read the paragraphs about herself in the newspapers. She kept her brother's
dockets and drew his papers. Alexander frowned a good deal, and said it wasn't necessary, but
she insisted that she must pay him in some way for her education. She put his desk in order
and gave him new papers every other day, which practices he never could get her to forego.
In short, she settled down into a routine of study, office-work, and regularly recurring attempts
to get in. And when she finally did get in, she had become a cynic. Everybody remembers, of
course, how at the end of his last term Judge Oldwigg announced his intention to retire into
private life and decline a reelection, and how the managers of the party in power chose Judge
Measy as their candidate for the vacant place. The prospective judge was waited on privately
by a deputation of Mrs. Tarbell's friends, headed by Mrs. Pegley, and asked to define his position
on the Tarbell question. The deputation did not contain many voters, and no bargain which Mr.
Measy, as he then was, could have made with it would have increased his majority very largely:
as he was pretty sure of a majority, he must be cleared of all suspicion of making a bargain.
But he did deliver to Mrs. Pegley an oracular answer, which was in course of time interpreted
in Mrs. Tarbell's favor. She came up before him; Mr. Juddson made the motion which he had so
often made before, and made it, I regret to say, in rather hurried tones, when, to everybody's
surprise, Judge Measy produced a manuscript and read it out, and proved that a lawyer was a
person who practiced law, and that therefore, as a woman was a person, she could be a lawyer,
interspersing his remarks with graceful historical allusions and several profound reflections
upon the design of Nature in creating the female sex. Then, acting as man, not judge, he descended
to the side-bar, beckoned to Mrs. Tarbell, grasped her by the hand, and made her a speech.
"Madam," said the courtly judge, "Mrs. Tarbell, I congratulate you,"--which was one for himself
as well,--"and let me add that it gives me the sincerest satisfaction to be able to testify
in this manner to the veneration which I have always entertained for woman; and I am quite
sure that in no long space of time you will have proved to us that the law cannot say it has
nothing to gain from her refining influence. For I remember my own mother, Mrs. Tarbell," said
Judge Measy. The bar listened in awed admiration. Mrs. Tarbell bit her lips, bowed, and thanked
his honor as best she could. The idea of suggesting that she was anybody's mother, or that
even if she had a family that was any reason for permitting her to be a barrister! But from
the other side of the court-room was heard an expressive rustling, and audible whispers of
satisfaction were wafted across the lawyers on their chairs. Mrs. Pegley and her train were
sitting by, radiant, triumphant, majestic. The dignity of motherhood was vindicated.

And now that Juddson and Tarbell were moving to their new offices, who should also at the very
same time become a tenant of the Land and Water Insurance Company but the Honorable Franklin
Blood Pope? The Land and Water Company's new building was in a very desirable locality, and
several lawyers deserted their old nooks and corners to occupy its spacious and well-calcimined
apartments. Juddson and Tarbell took the rooms on the back of the third floor, Mr. Pope those
on the front ditto: they were very near neighbors. In former days Mrs. Tarbell had often complained
to her husband of Mr. Pope's success. It was an argument that men had not as much common sense
as they pretended to have, she said, or else they would see through Franklin B----'s absurd
pretensions. "Even I can perceive that the man is a humbug," she continued. "In fact, any woman
could. Why is he successful, then? Why has he an enormous practice? Why has he been sent to
Congress? If it is because he has a majestic appearance and can talk a great deal, women certainly
can fulfill these conditions, and that by your own account of them."

To which Mr. Tarbell would answer, "Exactly, my love, by all means; and so is your friend Mrs.
Pegley a great talker, and a fine-looking woman."

"Then give her all the rights you give to Mr. Pope," cried Mrs. Tarbell.

"She shall have 'em, and welcome," said Tarbell; but he did not tell his wife that he had voted
for Mr. Pope on the opposition ticket, and had even consulted him on matters of business,--once
going so far as to suggest to him that a certain proposed alteration in the tariff would seriously
affect the mourning-goods industry,--from which it may be gathered that it was not from any
lack of prudence that Mr. Tarbell died a bankrupt and left his widow to become a lady-lawyer.

Mr. Pope himself it was who betrayed Mr. Tarbell's confidence and opened Mrs. Tarbell's eyes.
"Your husband was my very good friend, my dear madam," said the Honorable Franklin, "and I
was proud to call him my client. Yes, I had the honor of advising him in several matters and
of carrying through some rather delicate negotiations for him. A man of the strictest integrity,
ever genial and urbane, of sound judgment and independent views, endowed with strong common
sense and quick perceptions. You see, I had the highest opinion of Mr. Tarbell, and have often
wished to tell his widow--alas that I should have to call her so!--how certain I am that she
will succeed in the career she has chosen, and how deeply I grieve that her husband could not
have lived to find in her a better adviser than I ever could have been to him."

Messrs.--I mean Mrs. and Mr.--Tarbell and Juddson were just moving into their new offices when
Mr. Pope uttered these kind wishes. He met Mrs. Tarbell on the door-step: he was standing there,
indeed, when she came in. He was always standing on the door-step: he carried on most of his
business, especially with the politicians, in public. "I beg that you will use my library on
all occasions," he continued, raising his voice a little. "If I may say so myself, it is rather
comprehensive; in fact, I am very proud of it. And any assistance which I can give you in any
way, my dear madam, will, I need hardly say, be given most heartily."

Use his library, indeed! Mrs. Tarbell would have been as likely to go to the Vatican and ask
Pope Leo for the loan of a few works contra hæreticos. Why had she and her brother ever come
to the Land and Water Company's building? The idea of meeting the Honorable Pope every day,
of every day beholding his portly figure, statesman-like features, and lion mane, and acknowledging
his bland bows and salutations, was inexpressibly odious. And, what was worse, Mr. Pope continued
to flourish like a green bay-tree, or like the proprietors of a patent medicine or a blackguard
newspaper, or any other comparison you please. Feet tramped along the hall, hands knocked at
his door, lips innumerable whispered into his ears, and Mrs. Tarbell sat and looked at her
sign, wondering what had become of all the women who were to have employed her. She had not
said, "Walk in, madam," to one of them; and Mr. Juddson's clients all regarded her as if she
were a curiosity.

Mrs. Tarbell looked, in fact, like the president of a Dorcas society or a visitor of a church
hospital. She had pleasing features, dark hair, slightly touched with gray, as became a lawyer
of thirty-five, and dignified manners. She dressed very plainly in a black dress with just
one row of broad trimming down the front, and, though she felt that it was an abuse of authority,
she drew her hair straight back from her forehead. This question of her hair had given her
some little anxiety, and it had cost her some time to decide what kind of hat or bonnet she
should wear. Alexander said she might use her riding-hat for the sake of economy, but she had
decided on a tweed walking-hat, which could be taken off very quickly in the court-room. For,
whatever she might do in church, it was now impossible for her to remain covered before the
bench of judges.

Mrs. Tarbell's desk was in the middle of the back room,--she could just see the outer door
obliquely through that of her partition,--and Mr. Juddson's was in a similar position in the
front room. This was not a very good arrangement. Mrs. Tarbell could not very well be put in
the front room with the office-boy, and yet the proximity of the office-boy was not agreeable
to Mr. Juddson either. Then, too, most of the books were in the back room, and so was the sofa:
altogether it looked as if Mrs. Tarbell were the senior. Mr. Juddson was thinking seriously
of having another partition built, and that would at any rate save him from being asked "if
Mr. Juddson were in," for, as every one knows, there is a vast difference between being asked
"if Mr. Juddson be in," and "is this Mr. Juddson?" But Mr. Juddson had the picture of Chief-Justice
Marshall and the map of the battle-field of Gettysburg, so he was not so badly off; and Mrs.
Tarbell was very comfortable.

She was just musing over her future, and saying to herself, "When I die, I know that they will
call a bar-meeting, and that Mr. Pope will make a eulogy on my character," when the door opened,
and Mr. Juddson came in. Mrs. Tarbell returned to business-life immediately.

"Did you find Mullany?" she said.

Mr. Juddson, a tall, black-whiskered man of about fifty, rubbed his hands for a moment over
the fire, and then answered shortly that he had found Mullany.

"What did he say?"

"Oh,--what I expected," said Mr. Juddson, turning over the papers on his table. He disliked
unnecessary questions. Mrs. Tarbell had no interest in Mullany, and the most she ought to do
was to ask about him in an off-hand way in the street-car on the way home. Mr. Juddson discovered
the paper for which he was searching, and turned toward the door.

"Are you going out?" said Mrs. Tarbell.

The door was already half open.

"Reference before Murray. Back at one," was all Mr. Juddson deigned to say.

"Alexander!" cried Mrs. Tarbell,--when the office-boy was in, she called her brother Mr. Juddson,--"Alexander!"

"Well?" said Mr. Juddson. He was late as it was.

"You will make the office very cold if you leave the door--but never mind. Don't let me keep
you. I only wanted to tell you that I should like to talk to you about something some time
to-d--" The rest of the sentence was lost upon Mr. Juddson, who had already shut the door behind
him, and Mrs. Tarbell felt aggrieved.

So much aggrieved, in fact, that she found it impossible to return to the law-journal.

"I suppose I need a sedative," she said to herself. "If I were a man, I would put my feet up
on the table and light a cigar, or--no! I would never practise that vilest form of the vice."
(What she meant by this last phrase I cannot imagine, unless she referred to something which
Mr. Juddson had been driven to do because he could not very well smoke while his sister was
in the office.) "What," continued Mrs. Tarbell, "what can there be to recommend the position?"
She looked at the desk.

"Is it an easy position?" she said. She looked down at her feet.

"Is it even a graceful position?" She swung herself to and fro on her revolving-chair.

She looked about her. The office was empty; the office-boy had gone on a very long errand.
"I will try it," she said, with determination.

She removed all the books and papers on the right side of the table to the left side. Then
she tilted back her chair, elevated her left foot cautiously, put it down, and elevated her
right, placed it determinedly on the table, crossed the other foot over it, leaned forward
with some difficulty to arrange her skirts, leaned back again.

"My book seems to lie very easily in my lap," she said to herself. "And the leaves turn over
quite willingly."

One page, two pages, three pages. "After all," said she,--"after all--if one were quite alone--and
had been sitting for a long time in another attitude--"

Tap-tap! came a timid knock at the door.

"Come in!" cried Mrs. Tarbell, resuming her former position in a great hurry, and dropping
the law-journal.

Tap-tap!

"Come in!" said Mrs. Tarbell, picking up the law-journal. "Come in!" she said.

And the door opened slowly.

"Well?" said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Is Mrs. Tarbell in?" said the party of the knocks.

"I am Mrs. Tarbell. Come in, please. What can I do for you?"

"I wanted to see you, ma'am."

"Take a chair. Well?"

"I suppose it's April weather," said the new-comer; "but the rain is right chilly, so it is;
like it was a November rain, somehow. Will I put my umbreller right down here? The spring is
dreadful late, and the farmers is all complainin', they tell me."

Mrs. Tarbell shuddered.

The new-comer was tall and gaunt and thin; her shoulders sloped, she stooped, her chin was
up in the air, and she peered through spectacles. Her hat was rusty, her india-rubber gossamer
was rusty, the crape on her dress was so very rusty that it seemed to be made of iron-filings.
Her cheeks were the color of unburned coffee-grains or of underdone gingerbread; her nose was
long; her eyes, were small and bleary; her protruding lips wrinkled up as she spoke, and displayed
her poor yellow old tusks; her scant hair was dirty gray, her forehead was bald, her neck was
scraggy: she was particularly and pathetically ugly. Her dress bagged about over her long waist
and spidery arms. No wonder Mrs. Tarbell shuddered.

"If I ain't disturbing you, Mrs. Tarbell," the visitor continued, "and if you could just spare
the time to listen to me for a minnit, I wanted just to ask you for a little advice. My name
is Stiles, ma'am,--Mrs. Annette Gorsley Stiles. Gorsley was my given name before I was married--But
I feel as if I was taking up your time, Mrs. Tarbell."

"Not at all," said Mrs. Tarbell hastily.

"Well, ma'am, my husband he's dead, been dead this six years now, and left me with four to
feed, and--well, I don't know just how to begin, rightly. You see, it's this way. Celandine,
my eldest,--that was his name for her; he had a right pretty knack at names, and was always
for names that ran easy,--Celandine she's eighteen now, 'n' she wants to be doing something
for herself. It drives me real hard to pay for all four of them out of a sewing-machine and
the little I make selling candies over a counter,--five cents' worth of chocolate drops and
penny's-worths of yellow taffy; never more than fifty cents a day, living where we do, in Pulaski
Street,--and Celandine she's bound to help me some way. The next oldest to Celandine is on'y
ten; and if I was to starve I wouldn't have him to sell papers or black boots, and his father
a foreman; and the' ain't no call for office-boys nowadays, 'r else it's because Augustus is
so small for his age--"

"We have an office-boy," murmured Mrs. Tarbell.

"I know, ma'am," said Mrs. Stiles. "Leastways, I guessed as much. I was thinking of asking
you about Celandine." Mrs. Tarbell stirred uneasily, and Mrs. Stiles hurried on: "Celandine
and me we were talking things over the other day,--we've been reading about you in the newspapers,
Mrs. Tarbell, nigh on to four years now; Celandine has always been a comprehending child, precocious,
as they say, and quick-witted, and she's been watching your career, ma'am, just as clost as
you could yourself. And the day you was admitted she come home,--a friend of hers gave her
the afternoon paper,--and she says, 'Mother,' she says, 'Mrs. Tarbell is admitted!'--just like
it was a personal friend of yours, Mrs. Tarbell; and reely, ma'am, I suppose I oughtn't to
say it, but there's been a good many women all over this country felt themselves personal friends
of yours, ma'am, knowing how much there was meant by your success and feeling how near the
question come to themselves; and if good wishes brings good luck, that's what you have to thank
for succeeding. But Celandine she's an ambitious girl, Mrs, Tarbell, and the long and the short
of it is just this, that she's set her heart on being a lawyer, and she's either too shy or
too proud, mebbe, to come here with me to speak to you, ma'am: so I just put on my bunnit the
first day I could, rain or shine, and rain it's turned out to be, to say a word to you about
her and just ask you what you thought."

"A lawyer?" gasped Mrs. Tarbell.

"Yes, ma'am; a lady lawyer."

Mrs. Tarbell had never a word to say. In spite of having triumphed over all the arguments,
both those epicene and those particularly masculine, which had been used against herself, she
had not now the strength of mind to use them in her turn. In spite of being a lawyer, she had
a conscience. She had looked forward to taking students, but they were all to have been Portias,
every woman Jane of them; and before her own learning was fairly dry (which I think an eminently
proper adjective to describe legal learning) there appeared to her an obviously crack-brained
old party in an india-rubber cloak, who kept a candy-store and wanted her daughter to become
a lawyer. No wonder Mrs. Tarbell was embarrassed. Was she to say to the crack-brained one,
"Madam, pay me one hundred dollars per annum and I will take your daughter as a student"? On
the other hand, how in the name of that Orloff, that Pitt, that Kohinoor diamond among precious
virtues, consistency, was she to go so far as even to hint to Mrs. Stiles that any woman couldn't
be a lawyer? As Mrs. Tarbell hesitated, she began to fear she was lost.

"Celandine is a real bright girl," said Mrs. Stiles, who had now regained her breath. Was this
the woman who had knocked so timidly at the door? "Celandine is a real bright girl; her mind
is thorough, logical, and comprehensive,--that's what Professor Jamieson said, up to the High
School. Them was his very words. Celandine is to graduate this year: she's in the class with
girls two and three years older than herself, Mrs. Tarbell. It was a terrible strain on me
to keep her at school, ma'am, and again and again I've thought I couldn't stand it, what with
her being in the shop only in the afternoon, and the washing, and trying to keep her clothes
always nice; though she's been as good as gold,--making all her dresses herself, and wearing
a calico till you'd have thought the stitches would have dropped right out of it. And she's
ambitious, as I say. She don't seem to be able to face the idea of going into a store; and,
oh, dear me! they're terrible places, those big stores, for girls. They're as bad as the factories;
and often and often when I see those poor creatures that stand behind counters all day coming
home at night and thinking so much about the way their hair's done, and then consider what
slaves they are, and what they're exposed to, and how many wicked people are on the watch to
work them to death for no pay at all, and bully them, and to lead them all wrong, if they can,
why, it just makes me think how sensible the good Lord is, that he's able to take care of them
so well and look after them as much as he does. Professor Jamieson has been as kind as could
be about Celandine, and said he'd try to get a place for her as teacher; but you can't do that,
you know, Mrs. Tarbell, not onless you've got friends in politics; and I haven't, not one.
And a governess ain't often asked for; and you need influence for that, too. And Celandine,
though she would take copying or typewriting, or be a telegraph operator, her own idea is to
be a lawyer. And I just thought, Mrs. Tarbell, that I'd come to you and ask your advice; for
I knew you'd sympathize."

"I--I don't know," gasped Mrs. Tarbell. The shock was almost as great as if she had thought
Mrs. Stiles was a client. And what was she to do? Mrs. Stiles was not asking her to accept
Miss Celandine as a student: she was asking her whether Miss Celandine ought to study at all.
Mrs. Tarbell would have given anything to have a few platitudes at her tongue's end, but her
conscience rendered her helpless. "Well, you see, Mrs. Stiles," she said at length, "we are
trying a--hem--an experiment, you know."

"An experiment!" cried Mrs. Stiles, astounded. "Law bless us, you're admitted to be a lawyer,
ain't you? And if one lady can be a lawyer--"

"Yes, yes," said Mrs. Tarbell hastily; "but that is not the question. I mean that it is not
yet certain that women are going to succeed at the bar." Absolutely, though she was no fool,
she had never made the concession before,--not even to herself.

"But you are a lawyer," repeated Mrs. Stiles.

"It doesn't follow that I shall make money at the law," said Mrs. Tarbell impatiently, but
with a sense of her own justice.

Mrs. Stiles was staggered. "Not make any money?" she faltered.

"My good woman," said Mrs. Tarbell, "let me tell you that I have not yet had a single client,
that I have not yet made a single dollar!" And, really, this was rather magnanimous. "The fact
is, Mrs. Stiles," she continued, "it is impossible to say how long it will be before women
inspire public confidence in their ability to do what has always been supposed to be man's work."

"Law!" said Mrs. Stiles.

"And your daughter had better wait till that is settled in our favor before she commits herself."

In Mrs. Stiles's cheeks a queer tinge appeared upon the gingerbread hue before spoken of,--a
faint reddish tinge, a sprinkling of powdered cinnamon and sugar, as it were. "But, Mrs. Tarbell,"
she cried, "I thought--why, I thought the courts arranged all that."

"You don't mean to tell me it was your belief that the members of the bar are paid by the court?"
said Mrs. Tarbell, aghast.

"Why, no, not exactly," stammered Mrs. Stiles. "But, then, I thought they--sort of--distributed
things, you know. Don't they? I heerd of a young gentleman who was appointed to be lawyer for
a man who cut his wife's throat with a pair of scissors, and the gentleman had never seen him
before, not once."

"Did you suppose," said Mrs. Tarbell,--the affair was arranging itself very easily, after all,--"did
you suppose that the judges undertake to see that the business of the courts is equally distributed
among the lawyers?"

"I--I don't know, ma'am, I'm sure."

"My good, woman," said Mrs, Tarbell, with great seriousness, "a lawyer is just as much dependent
upon custom as you are. There are many confectioners who do a large business, there are some
who fail. So it is with lawyers. And many lawyers have to wait ten or twelve years before they
become known at all. So you see in what a critical situation your daughter runs the risk of
placing herself, and how seriously you ought to reflect before you allow her to take such a risk."

She looked anxiously toward the door. At that moment it opened, and the office-boy entered.
She rose instantly, and Mrs. Stiles had to follow her example. Mrs. Tarbell represented to
herself that the rain would not hurt her, and that Mrs. Stiles must be got rid of, and, feeling
that this could now be accomplished, smiled at Mrs. Stiles in a friendly and reassuring manner.

"Who was the gentleman who was ten years before he got any work to do?" said Mrs. Stiles, standing
up very crooked and looking very bewildered.

"Oh," said Mrs. Tarbell glibly, "that has happened to a great many lawyers. Let me see: I can't
at this moment recall--Chief-Justice--no--Lord--Lord--Eldon," she mumbled hastily, "and Lord-Kilgobbin,
and Chief-Justice Coleridge, all had to wait a--a longer or a shorter time. In fact, it is
very often a matter of chance that a lawyer obtains any business at all." She walked past Mrs.
Stiles, and took up her umbrella. Mrs. Stiles followed her with an irresolute glance. Mrs.
Tarbell put on her ulster.

"Celandine will be dreadful disappointed," said Mrs. Stiles, in a mournful tone. "And, dear
me, Mrs. Tarbell, I never said a word to you about what she's like; and me so proud of her, too."

In spite of her success, Mrs. Tarbell was by no means satisfied with herself, and the pathetic
note in Mrs. Stiles's voice proved too much for her. "Mrs. Stiles," she said, turning round
quickly, "perhaps I have been putting one side of the matter too strongly before you. If you
will bring your daughter here some morning, we can discuss the subject together for a little
while, and I can advise her definitely as to what course I think she had better pursue."

The expression of Mrs. Stiles's face changed a little; she seemed to be surprised and gratified;
but it was evident that the overthrow of her delusions in regard to the remunerative character
of the legal profession had saddened and disturbed her. "It's right kind of you to take so
much trouble, Mrs. Tarbell," she said, buttoning up her gossamer. "I feel as grateful to you
as can be; but I don't think I'll tell Celandine all you've said, because--"

"Perhaps it would be wiser," said Mrs. Tarbell impatiently.

"And then, in a week or so--"

"Precisely; a week or so." Mrs. Tarbell found that precisely was a very short and lawyer-like
word, so she repeated it.

"Well, then--" said Mrs. Stiles.

"Some time during the morning," said Mrs. Tarbell; and she turned to the office-boy, with whom
she began to converse in an undertone. Mrs. Stiles came walking across the floor, slow and
lugubrious. She bade Mrs. Tarbell good-day. Mrs. Tarbell bowed her out as quickly as possible,
and then waited for a couple of minutes to give her time to get out of the way.

But on going down-stairs Mrs. Tarbell found her standing in the door-way, holding her umbrella
half open and peering out into the rain, Mrs. Stiles explained that she was waiting for a car.

"They run every two or three minutes," said Mrs. Tarbell sweetly. "Good-day."

"Here's one now," said Mrs. Stiles. "Mrs. Tarbell, I just wanted to say--mebbe you might think
I wasn't appreciative of your kindness, and that all I cared about was--"

"Not at all," said Mrs. Tarbell. "Not at all, I assure you. I understand, perfectly. You will
miss your--"

"That's so, that's so," said Mrs. Stiles. "Driver! driver!" And she ran down the steps, flourishing
her umbrella wildly.

Mrs. Tarbell put up her own umbrella, and looked down the street. The rain splashed up from
the pavement, the tree-boxes were wet and dismal, the little rivers in the gutters raced along,
shaking their tawny manes, the umbrellas of the passing pedestrians were sleek and dripping,
like the coats of the seals in the Zoological Garden. Now that she was rid of Mrs. Stiles,
was it absolutely necessary for her to go out? She hesitated a moment.

Suddenly she heard a cry from the street. Two or three men in front of her stopped quickly,
and then ran toward the prostrate figure of somebody who had fallen from the car which had
halted a few steps farther on. The car-horses were plunging and swinging from one side of the
car to the other; the conductor had alighted and was hurrying back toward the victim of the
accident; the passengers were pushing out on the back platform. Mrs. Stiles had slipped or
been thrown down on the muddy car-track. Mrs. Tarbell recognized her long black figure as it
was lifted up. A sad sight the poor woman was, her india-rubber cloak spotted and streaked
with mud and muddy water, her head hanging back from her shoulders, her face the color of a
miller's coat exactly,--a dirty, grayish white,--and her arms shaking about with the motion
of her bearers. She had fainted; her bearers were looking about in the hope of seeing an apothecary's
shop, or some other such occasional hospital, when Mrs. Tarbell accosted them.

Mrs. Tarbell stood in the established attitude of a woman in front of a rainy-day gutter, holding
her skirts with one hand and leaning forward at such an angle that the drippings from the mid-rib
of her umbrella fell in equal streams upon the small of her back and a point precisely thirteen
inches from the tips of her galoshes.

"Bring her in here," cried Mrs, Tarbell, shaking her umbrella. "Bring her in here." And she
waved the umbrella in an elliptical curve about her head.

"Where?" said the foremost of those addressed, an active-looking man with a red moustache,
a wet fur cap, and an umbrella under his arm.

"Here," said Mrs. Tarbell, thrusting her umbrella at the Land and Water Company's building.
To make her directions more accurate, she went to the steps and nodded at the hall-way.

"The lady is my--has just been having a consultation with me," said Mrs. Tarbell to the man
in the red moustache, "and--"

"Which way?" said he.

"Right up-stairs: the first door at the head of the stairs, on the third floor. I think you
had better take her up in the elevator, because--"

"Cert'nly, cert'nly," he said, interrupting Mrs. Tarbell, who had intended to be as brief and
business-like as possible.

Mrs. Tarbell followed the procession into the elevator, and when they arrived on the third
floor, John, the office-boy, had already opened the door, scenting an excitement afar off with
curious nostril, as it were; and Mrs. Stiles was duly carried in and laid on the sofa. "John,
get some water instantly," cried Mrs. Tarbell. And at the same moment a red-cheeked young man
bustled into the room and said that he was a doctor.

He pushed everybody out of the way, darted to the sofa, took off his hat. "Heard there was
an accident, and if my services--unless there is another practitioner--thank you, sir, you
are doing the very best thing possible; and now let us see whether there is a fracture," he said.

The promptitude and directness with which this young gentleman went to work commanded the attention
and admiration of all the spectators. He asked for water, he called for salts of ammonia, he
ran his hands lightly over Mrs. Stiles's prostrate form, all in an instant; then he asked how
the accident had happened.

"She tried to get on while the car was going," growled the conductor, who had accompanied the
party up-stairs.

"I'll bet she didn't," observed the party with the red moustache.

"Ankle, probably," murmured the doctor to himself. "Possibly a rib also." And in a minute or
two he was able to declare that the injury had been done to the lady's ankle, the lady herself
having assisted him to this conclusion by coming to her senses, groaning, and putting her hand
down to the suffering joint.

The conductor frowned. "What is the lady's name and address, please, ma'am?" he asked of Mrs.
Tarbell. "I have to make a report of the accident."

"You'll find it out soon enough," said a thin man with a fresh complexion, very silvery hair,
and spectacles. "The company will not have to wait long for the information." He looked about
with a cheerful smile, and the conductor glared at him contemptuously. "She never tried to
get on while you were going," continued the thin man. "It was your driver; that's what it was."

"The lady's name is Stiles, conductor," said Mrs. Tarbell,--"Stiles; and she lives--dear me!--on
Pulaski Street. Can I do anything for you, doctor?"

"You might send your boy for a carriage," said the doctor, who was engaged in removing Mrs.
Stiles's shoe. "Nothing else, thank you, unless you happen to have some lead-water about you."
He gave a professional smile, and Mrs. Stiles groaned dismally.

Mrs. Tarbell despatched John for the carriage, and then, turning, and blushing in a way that
was rather out of keeping with her tone of voice, she said, "Now, I should be obliged if you
gentlemen who saw the accident would furnish me with your names and addresses."

On hearing this the crowd began to diminish rapidly; but the man with the red moustache set
a good example by giving his name loudly and promptly as "Oscar B. Mecutchen, tobacconist,
d'reckly opposite the City Hall." So three or four other men allowed Mrs. Tarbell to set them
down as observers of the disaster. The gentleman in spectacles was named Stethson, another
man, a tall, fat-cheeked countryman, Vickers, and a dried up little party, in a Grand-Army-of-the-Republic
suit, Parthenheimer. Mrs. Tarbell had the names down pat, and scrutinized each prospective
witness carefully, as if warning him that it would be no use for him to give a fictitious name
in the hope of evading his duties, as she would now be able to pick him out of a regiment.

"I am very much obliged to you," she said, in a stately manner. "Now, you all agree that the
accident was the result of the negligence of the driver of the car?"

"Why, yes, certainly," they all agreed at once.

"Leastways--" said Mecutchen.

"That is--" said Parthenheimer.

"How was it, anyway?" asked Stethson.

"Thought you saw it," cried the others, turning on him instantly.

"So I did," said Stethson; "but I thought I'd like to hear what you gentlemen's impression was."

"Well," said Mecutchen and Vickers, the tall man, together, tipping back their hats with a
simultaneous and precisely similar movement on the part of each,--nothing is more indicative
of the careful independence of the average American than the way in which he always keeps his
head covered in the presence of his lawyer,--"Well," said Vickers and Mecutchen.

Mr. Mecutchen bowed to Mr. Vickers, and Mr. Vickers bowed to Mr. Mecutchen, with a sort of
grotesque self-effacement. Mr. Vickers waved his hand, and Mr. Mecutchen proceeded.

"Why," said he, "the lady stopped the car in the middle of the block,--just like a woman,--got
on the platform, car started with a jerk, and she fell off."

Vickers and Parthenheimer nodded assent, but Stethson said that his view of it was that the
car started off again while she was trying to get on.

"That makes it stronger," said Mecutchen.

"Well, of course," said Stethson, settling his spectacles farther back on his nose; and Vickers
murmured that you couldn't have it too strong, as he knew from the point of view (as he said)
of cows. "It's wonderful what you can get for cows," he added pensively.

"Ag'in' a railroad company," said the grizzled old Parthenheimer, "the stronger the better,
because some cases, no matter how aggerawated they are, you only git a specific sum and no
damages. But a railroad case, which is a damage case right through, the worse they are the
more you git. I had a little niece to be killed by a freight-train, and they took off that
pore little girl's head, and her right arm, and her left leg, all three, like it was done by
a mowing-machine,--so clean cut, you know. Well, sir, they got a werdick for six thousand dollars,
my brother and his wife did; and their lawyer stood to it that the mangling brought in three
thousand; and I think he was right about it, too."

"Six thousand!" said Vickers, with immense appreciation.

"The court set it aside for being excessive," said Parthenheimer," and aft'werds they compromised
for less. But there it was. And the way it was done was odd, too. Right arm and left leg."

"Ah," said Vickers, "living right on a railroad, the way I do, you see some queerer accidents
than that. Now, I remember--"

But Mrs. Tarbell found this conversation growing quite too ghastly to be listened to with composure,
so she turned abruptly toward the sofa. The doctor was now bathing and examining Mrs. Stiles's
ankle, and Mrs. Stiles looked not merely the picture but the dramatic materialization of misery.

"How do you feel now, Mrs. Stiles? How do you think she is, doctor?" These two questions were
put in Mrs. Tarbell's sweetest tones.

Mrs. Stiles lay for a moment without answering, but the doctor replied that he was afraid it
was a nasty business. "There is a dislocation, and there may be nothing more, except a sprain,"
he said. "But it will be impossible to tell until the swelling is reduced; and if there is
a fracture of the fibula, why, such a complication is apt to be serious."

Mrs. Stiles groaned feebly, and then looked up at Mrs. Tarbell with gratitude. "I never thought
to be so much trouble to you," she murmured.

"Do not think of that for a moment," said Mrs. Tarbell. "If I only had my cologne-bottle,"
she said, half aloud, in an apologetic voice. This was one of the luxuries she had refused
herself in her professional toilet; more than this, she did not allow herself to carry a smelling-bottle,
though Mr. Juddson had told her it could be used with great effect to disconcert an opposing
counsel.

"I am afraid you are suffering very much," she went on.

"Yes, ma'am," said Mrs. Stiles sadly. "If I hadn't only been such a fool as to try to get on
that there car while it was a-going."

Mrs. Tarbell started. The doctor rose and laughed.

"You don't mean that," said he.

"Mean what, doctor?"

"That you tried to get on while the car was going. All these gentlemen here say the car started
while you were trying to get on, which is a very different thing, you know." The doctor had
evidently kept his ears open while attending to the sufferer. Mrs. Tarbell, rather red in the
face, kept silent, not knowing exactly what she ought to do.

"I don't know," said Mrs. Stiles feebly. "I don't s'pose I remember much."

"Of course you don't," said the doctor cheerfully. "Bless you, you'll sue the company and have
a famous verdict; I wouldn't take ten thousand dollars for your chances if I had them. You
observe," he went on confidentially to Mrs. Tarbell, "I am doing my best for the community
of interests which, ought to exist among the learned professions. I raise this poor woman's
spirits by suggesting to her dreams of enormous damages, and at the same time I promote litigation,
to the great advantage of her lawyer. I think that is the true scientific spirit."

"I--I--" began Mrs. Tarbell, in some confusion.

"Beg pardon?" said the doctor. "Well, I must be off. I've done all I can for the poor woman.
She ought to send for her own doctor as soon as she gets home. I suppose--will you--?" He looked
at Mrs. Tarbell doubtfully, as if wondering whether he ought to take it for granted that she
was in charge of the case.

"I will tell her," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"I could tell her myself," said the doctor. "To be sure. Well, if I could only inform her lawyer
what I've done for him, he might induce my fair patient to employ me permanently." He smiled
at his joke, shook his head waggishly, and turned to look for his hat.

As Mrs. Tarbell looked after him in some perplexity, John, the office-boy, came back to report
that the carriage was engaged and at the door; and Mrs. Stiles was presently carried down-stairs
again, it being quite impossible for her even to limp.

But before she was lifted up she turned her head and beckoned to Mrs. Tarbell.

"Could I," she said,--"could I have a case against the railway company?"

"Ye-es,--I suppose so," Mrs. Tarbell answered.

"Did they say it was the fault of the conductor that I fell off that car?"

"Of the driver,--yes."

"Well, then, ma'am, would you advise me to bring a case against them?"

"You had better decide for yourself," said Mrs. Tarbell faintly. But then, remembering that
it was her duty to advise, she added, "Yes, I think you ought to sue."

"Then you'll take the case, Mrs. Tarbell, won't you, please?" said Mrs. Stiles, closing her
eyes again, as if satisfied of the future.

Mrs. Tarbell! There was a general movement of surprise as the lady lawyer's name was pronounced,
and the doctor was so much taken aback that heh burst out laughing.

"I'm sure I beg your pardon, Mrs. Tarbell," he cried. "I had no idea in the world--"

"Ah," said Stethson, "I looked at the sign on the door coming in. I knew it was the lady lawyer.
My, if my wife could see you, Mrs. Tarbell!"

"And I never knew who I was talking to!" grumbled Mecutchen disgustedly.

A quarter of an hour later, when Mr. Juddson returned to his office, Mrs. Tarbell was engaged
in drawing up a paper which ran as follows:

ANNETTE GORSLEY STILES }   Court of Common vs.                    }   Pleas. THE BLANK AND
DASH     }   May Term, 1883. AVENUES PASSENGER      }   No. ---- RAILWAY CO.            }

To the Prothonotary of the said Court:

Issue summons in case returnable the first Monday in May, 1883.

TARBELL, pro plff.

It was a precipe for a writ.

"Alexander!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in an expressive voice, regardless of the office-boy.

"Yes?" said Mr. Juddson. The referee had refused to admit some of his testimony.

"Alexander, I have a client," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Do you tell me so?" replied Mr. Juddson absently, as he redisarranged the papers upon his
table. "I hope--Bless me, where is that--? Mrs. Tarbell, have you seen anything of an envelope?--John,
what became of the papers in Muggins and Bylow? I gave them to you."

Mrs. Tarbell, deeply mortified, resumed her occupation, and completed the precipe by writing
the words, "Tarbell, pro plff."

Mr. Juddson's papers were found for him, under his nose, and he was beginning to say that he
was going out to lunch, when the enormity of his conduct made itself apparent to him.

"By George!" he said, stopping short, "you told me you had a client at last, eh, Mrs. Tarbell?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Tarbell coldly.

"Why,--bless my soul! It's your first client, is it not? And what kind of a case has your ewe-lamb
brought you? Come, tell me about it. I did not properly appreciate the communication." And
he went over to Mrs. Tarbell's desk, upon which he sat himself down in a position which Mrs.
Tarbell had formerly considered very undignified; but now she could not help feeling that it
was really a legal attitude.

She looked up with a smile, and then, though with a little shame, displayed the precipe.

"Well, that's good," said Mr. Juddson. "Accident case, I suppose. What is it? Death, and damages
for the widow?--for I see there are no children,--or was the plaintiff herself the victim of
the accident? Your sex has finally decided to stand by you, it seems."

"I shan't send out the writ just yet," said Mrs. Tarbell, blushing. "I was--wanted to see how
the precipe would look. I must see the plaintiff again, I think, before I advise her definitely
to sue."

"Hasn't she a case?"

"Yes--but--"

"What nonsense!" cried Juddson. "Come, my dear, don't be a goose, and don't lose a return-day.
Otherwise, I shall buy you a sewing-machine."

"Aren't you pleased, Alexander?" said Mrs. Tarbell, with a little effusion.

"My dear, I'm delighted. I hope that in five years' time you will be supporting me and my family.
Your sister-in-law will be speechless with jealousy. I congratulate you. Hum--The Blank and
Dash Avenues Company? Well, you won't have to send John very far with your copies of the pleadings.
Pope was appointed attorney for the company last week, in place of old Slyther, who resigned,
you know."

"Pope?" said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Yes,--the Honorable Franklin."

"Goodness!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in a tone of inexpressible disgust.

"By jingo; you are not fond of him, are you? Hem! Well, as a general rule, I should advise
you to put personal feelings entirely out of the question; but, as this is your first case,
perhaps it would be just as well for you to have me with you, and let me--hum--well, let me
take the jury."

"Alexander! do you think I am afraid of Mr. Pope?"

"N-no; but Pope is a blackguard, and very shady, and, it might be unpleasant for you; and I'd
do that, if I were you."

Mrs. Tarbell's spirits rose. "I will do nothing of the sort, Alexander," she said; "though
it is very kind of you to suggest it; and I will--I will bet you,"--determinedly,--" I will
bet you a copy of the new edition of Baxter's Digest that I beat him."

THOMAS WHARTON.

A CARCANET.

I give thee, love, a carcanet With all the rainbow splendor set, Of diamonds that drink the
sun. Of emeralds that feed upon His light as doth the evergreen, A memory of spring between
This frost of whiter pearls than snow, And warmth of violets below A wreath of opalescent mist,
Where blooms the tender amethyst. Here, too, the captives of the mine-- The sapphire and the
ruby--shine, Rekindling each a hidden spark, Unquenched by buried ages dark, Nor dimmed beneath
the jewelled skies, Save by the sunlight of thine eyes.

JOHN B. TABB.

IN A SALT-MINE.

There were five of us. The little New-Yorker, plump, blonde, and pretty, I call Cecilia: that
is not her name, but if she suggested any saint it was the patron saint of music. Her soul
was full of it, and it ran off the ends of her fingers in the most enchanting manner. Elise,
half French, as you would see at a glance, was from the Golden Gate,--as dainty and pretty
a bit of femininity as ever wore French gowns with the inimitable American air. Elise could
smile her way straight through the world. All barriers gave way before her dimples, and with
her on board ship we never feared icebergs at sea, feeling confident they would melt away before
her glance. Thirdly, there was myself, and then I come to the masculine two-fifths of our party.
First, the curate. He was young in years and in his knowledge of the great world. His parish
had sent him to the Continent with us to regain his somewhat broken health. He sometimes spoke
of himself as a shepherd, and he liked to talk of the Church as his bride: he always blushed
when he looked straight at Elise. Cecilia liked him because his clerical coat gave tone to
the party, and his dignity was sufficient for us all, thus saving us the trouble of assuming
any. Lastly, there was Samayana, which was not his name either, from Bombay,--a real, live
East-Indian nabob. In his own country he travelled with three tents, a dozen servants, as many
horses, and always carried his laundress with him. Yet he never seemed lonely with us,--which
we thought very agreeable in him. Crawford had just created Mr. Isaacs, and we fancied there
was a resemblance,--barring the wives,--and he told us such graphic stories of life in India
that we were not always sure in just which quarter of the globe we were touring. Both Samayana
and the curate were picturesque--for men. Two beings more opposed never came together, yet
they liked each other thoroughly. Samayana was greatly admired in European society for his
color, his gift as a raconteur, and the curious rings he wore. He was very dusky, and Cecilia,
being very blonde, valued him as a most effective foil and adjunct. We were seeing Germany
in the most leisurely fashion, courting the unexpected and letting things happen to us.

On the day of which I write we spent the early morning on the Königsee, in Bavaria, the loveliest
sheet of water in Germany, vying in grandeur with any Swiss or Italian lake. Its color is that
of the pheasant's breast, and the green mountain-sides, almost perpendicular in places, rise
till their peaks are in the clouds and their snows are perpetual. Stalwart, bronzed peasant
girls, in the short skirts of the Bavarian costume, rowed us about. A few years ago, in answer
to a petition, King Louis I. promised them that never in his reign should steam supplant them.
They laughed happily and looked proudly at their muscle when we hinted at their being tired.

We landed at different points and strolled into wooded valleys, visited artificial hermitages,
stopped for a bite at a restaurant connected with a royal hunting-château, and listened lazily
to Elise's telling of the legends of the region, accompanied by the music of some little waterfall
coming from the snow above and gleefully leaping into the lake. We crossed the rocky, wild
pasture-land lying between the Königsee and the Obersee, that tiny lake that faithfully gives
back as a mirror all the crags, peaks, and snowy heights which hide it away there as if it
were indeed the precious opal you may fancy it to be when viewed from above.

We drifted back to the little inn, where we were approached by a respectful Kutscher, who asked
if we would not like to go down into a salt-mine. Whatever we did, it was with one accord,
and the answer came in chorus, "Ja, gewiss!" Elise glanced down at her dainty toilet, a look
instantly interpreted by the Kutscher, who explained that costumes for the descent were furnished,
that the exploration was not fatiguing, and that the carriages were ready.

It was all done in an "Augenblick," the bill was paid, the Trinkgeld was scattered, and we
were rattling away through as beautiful a region as you will find, even in Switzerland. The
snow-peaks were dazzlingly white in the sunshine; in the ravines and defiles the darkness lingers
from night to night; singing, leaping Alpine streams came like molten silver from the glaciers
over the rocky ledges and through the hanging forests, and a swift river ran through this happy,
fertile valley of peace and plenty in which our roadway wound. The peasants looked content
and well-to-do, and were picturesquely clothed. We stopped an old man and bargained for the
quaint, antique silver buttons on his coat, and paid him twice its weight in silver money for
the big silver buckle at his belt. We were stopped at the frontier, and accommodatingly rose
while the custom-officers politely looked under the carriage-seats. The wine we had just drunk
was not taxable, while that we were about to drink was: so we presented our remaining bottles
to the officers to save them the trouble of making change. Up to that time we had turned our
horses to the right: once over the Austrian line, custom demanded we should turn to the left,
a change to which the Kutscher readily accommodated himself. One is kept geographically informed
in that region by this difference in manners on the high-road in Austria and Bavaria.

We argued a little about the fittingness of women working in the fields. Cecilia thought it
preferable to washing dishes, and one of us, who believes herself not born to sew, maintained
that to rake hay was more agreeable than sitting at sewing-machines or making shirts at twenty
cents apiece after the manner of New-York workwomen. But once indignation and excitement took
possession of us all as we caught sight of a bare-footed, slight young girl toiling up a ladder
and carrying mortar along a scaffold to men laying bricks on the second story of a new building.
The girl had a complexion like a rose-leaf, her uncovered hair gleamed like gold in the sunshine,
her head was exquisitely set on her shoulders. The curate sighed deeply, Samayana uttered a
strong word in Hindoostanee, and there was a feminine cry of "Shameful!" when the girl, putting
down her load, folded her white arms, whose sinew and muscle an athlete might have envied,
and, with teeth and smile as faultless as our Elise's, threw us down a "Gruss Gott!" If there
ever beamed content and happiness from human face we saw it in that of this peasant beauty,
who had no conception of our commiseration. We gave her back a "God greet thee!" "All the same,"
said Cecilia indignantly, "women should not carry mortar." We had noticed that Cecilia's indignation
on account of the workingwoman of Germany was extreme if the woman was pretty.

We came at last to the mouth of the mine, from which issued a narrow railway for the transportation
of the salt-ore, and above, zigzag on the mountain-side, ran the conduit carrying the salt,
still in liquid form, to the boiling-house. A waterfall four hundred feet high furnished power
for the great pump. About the entrance to the mine clustered a number of buildings. Many carriages
were already there, for it was the height of the tourists' season, and this was the show-mine
of the Salzkammergut. Some military officers were standing about, a dozen or more natives lounged
on the piazzas, and nearly every carriage contained one or more occupants, evidently waiting
for travelling-companions then in the mine. There was the fat woman who couldn't think of such
an exploration, the nervous woman who hated dark places and never went underground, a few invalids
and some chattering girls and young men who had previously been through the mine and had come
over from Salzburg for the drive, and some very fine youths and young women who wouldn't be
seen in a miner's costume. There were a score or more of these travellers, and as many more
coachmen, and miners off duty, hanging about. A building on the opposite side of the road was
indicated to us ladies as the place in which we were to change our costumes. Now, here was
a pleasant gauntlet to run in male attire! However, a hundred strangers were not to deter us,
and, possibly, this costume might be becoming. There were worse figures in the world than ours,
and who knew but this miners' dress might show our forms to an advantage at which they had
never been seen before? Encouraged by the thought, we gave our treasures into safe keeping
and permitted the attendant to disrobe us. She spoke a dialect which had little meaning to
us, and we carried on our conversation by signs.

She hung our habiliments on pegs, giving Elise's a little womanly caress for their prettiness.
She brought in exchange a costume which made us helpless from laughter, until we were painfully
sobered by the thought of the spectators outside. A pair of white duck trousers that might
have been made of pasteboard, so stiff were they and so defined the crease ironed at their
sides, came first. Our measures were not taken. The attendant accommodatingly turned them up
about ten inches at the bottom, the edge then coming to our ankles, which somehow looked very
insignificant and as if protruding from paper shoe-boxes that had been sat upon. These nether
garments extended beyond us at either side to such a distance that that roundness of form which
we had fancied this costume might display was not in the least perceptible. A black alpaca
jacket reaching to our knees came next. These, too, had been warranted to fit the biggest woman
who might visit the Salzkammergut, and one would easily have taken in all three of us. Elise,
always ingenious, found hers so long on the shoulder that she fitted her elbow into the armsize.
We pinned them up here and pinned them in there, and tucked our hair into little black caps,
and fastened the broad leather belt about our waists, stuck a lantern in at the side, and announced
ourselves in readiness. The dressing-maid, however, was not done with us. She brought three
very heavy leathern aprons, attached to strong waist-bands. The leather was three-quarters
of an inch thick; and I need not add that these square aprons did not take graceful folds.
Elise, after regarding the curious article a moment, decided it would be no addition to her
toilet, and politely declined it. Cecilia's nez retroussé went yet higher up in the air. Feeling
that the maid knew better than I, I meekly put one on as I had been taught from my babyhood
to wear an apron, when a sudden twitch brought it around behind. She quickly adjusted the others
in the same fashion. We dared not look at each other, and each assumed a manner as if attired
in the court costume of the country; but I venture to say that more grotesque, ridiculous creatures
never went out into the daylight, Cecilia, going first, wisely did not attempt to go through
the door full front, and we sidled after her to avoid collision between our stiff sail-like
trousers and the door-jambs.

We tried to believe that clothes do not make the woman,--they do much toward it,--and with
an air of great dignity went into the face of that miscellaneous company, to be greeted with
a terrific and tremendous shout of laughter. A panic seized us, and I found myself standing
stock still in the middle of the road, as if stage-struck, the others running like the wind.
It was for a moment only, and I followed, the laughter sounding more and more demoniacal to
my ears. I was impelled as never before in my life. Was some one striking me from behind? It
was that diabolical leathern apron giving me a blow at every step, its violence increasing
with my ever-accelerated speed. How grateful the shelter of that cave-like aperture in the
mountain, where stood the gentlemen similarly attired, the curate so absurd that we forgot
all about his other "cloth" and laughed immoderately in his face. Samayana was still picturesque.
Cecilia was in a rage. "I'll never cross that road again before those horrid people, if I stay
here a thousand years!" she exclaimed, with flashing eyes; and Elise breathlessly gasped, "Oh-that-awful-apron!
It-beat-me-as-I-ran,-like-a-whip. I-felt-like-a-donkey-pursued-by-the-donkey-boy!"

The guide lighted our lanterns, and, with a last hysterical laugh, we followed him into the
earth, through long, narrow, humid passage-ways, the temperature not unpleasant, other passage-ways
branching off and suggesting the labyrinth which we knew extended for a great distance in every
direction. We finally came to a lighted chamber, the entrance to the shaft. The flickering
lights showed us the end of a great, smooth, wooden beam, which, at an angle of forty-five
degrees, seemed to be going down into darkness, ending nowhere, as far as we could see. We
had not been prepared in our minds for this descent or the manner in which it was to be made.
The miner placed himself astride the great beam, keeping his position by holding on to a rope.
He put Elise behind him, and, drawing her arms around his waist, clasped her hands in front
of him. The curate was then requested to mount the wooden horse and embrace Elise firmly. He
hesitated but a moment, and in another I found myself behind him, hanging for dear life on
to the English shepherd, to be in turn encircled by Samayana, and last of all came Cecilia,
doing her best to get her plump little arms around the Indian. The darkness below was a trifle
appalling. We were cautioned not to unclasp our hands, lest we should lose them, and naturally
we clung the closer to each other.

There was just a moment of suspense and suppressed excitement, when, with a sharp cry, the
miner loosened his hold, and by the impulse of our own weight we shot, with a velocity not
to be described, two hundred and forty-feet into the earth. The miner acting as a brake brought
us up gently enough, so that we felt scarcely anything of a shock. Cecilia, to be sure, left
her breath about two-thirds of the way up, and suffered some inconvenience till she accumulated
more, and the curate forgot to loosen his hold on Elise for an unpardonable length of time,
while he gathered his wits, and I could feel that he was blushing when he came to his senses.
It was in adjusting our attire that we discovered the necessity and value of our leathern aprons.
Had we been plunged into a pool of water we should have sizzled. They were hot from the friction.
They speedily became our dearest of friends and possessions, for we had three more of these
shafts to slide down, and we grew faint at the bare thought of losing them. Cecilia, after
our second slide, suggested, in a language the gentlemen did not understand, that she would
like her turn at being embraced, since she always lost her breath at the start and was afraid.
This remark met with no response, as neither Elise nor I wanted to run the risk of being lost
off behind, and felt a selfish sense of security that made the shooting of the shafts delightful
and somewhat similar to the coasting and sliding down balusters of our childhood.

We traversed many long galleries on different levels. Through some of these ran the aqueduct
which brought the fresh water in, and another which conveyed the salt water out, twenty miles
away. We were in the bosom of a mountain of salt rock, which is constantly forming, and is
therefore a never-ending source of wealth. For centuries this mine has been worked. The salt
rock is quarried and carried out in the form of rock-salt. Another method of obtaining salt
is by conveying water into the large, excavated chambers, drawing it off and boiling down when
it becomes impregnated. This water attracts and dissolves the saline matter, but, as water
cannot so affect the slaty portion of the rock, it leaves it often in most fantastic shapes,
sometimes as pillars or depending, curtain-like sheets. These chambers kept full of water are
constantly changing their level on the withdrawal of the liquid. After three or four weeks
two feet of the roof will be found to have been dissolved and two feet of débris found upon
the floor. Curiously enough, this débris in time acquires the property of the salt rock. There
are chambers above chambers, some of them five hundred yards in circumference, and miles of
galleries. One of these chambers, which was illuminated, showed floor, walls, and ceiling of
pure rock-salt, very lovely in color, though not so brilliant as in the mine of Wieliczka,
which is likened to four subterranean cities, one below the other, hewn from rose-colored rock.
Samayana secured of our guide red, yellow, blue, and purple specimens.

The miners are obliged to divest themselves of all clothing when at their dangerous work, as
any garment will so absorb the salt as to become hard and brittle, tearing the skin painfully.
They must be relieved every few hours, and, though short-lived, they work for a pittance an
American laborer would scorn.

Descending a flight of steps after shooting the third shaft, we came upon a scene which filled
us with wonder. There, far down in the earth, lay a tiny tranquil lake of inky blackness, its
borders outlined with blazing torches. At the extreme end were the entwined letters "F.J."
(Franz Joseph), gleaming in candle-lights, and over our heads the miners' greeting, "Glück
auf!" traced in fire. On the pink salt-rock roof--the miners call it der Himmel--rested the
fearful weight of the superincumbent mountain. It was an awful thought, and the curate did
not hesitate an instant in seizing Elise's outstretched hand, as if she were seeking, and he
glad to give, a bit of comfort in this strangely-impressive place. We entered a little boat
waiting to take us across the Salz Sea to the opposite shore. There was not a sound, save the
dipping of the oar. We tasted the black water. The Dead Sea cannot be salter. We were hushed
and oppressed, as if each felt the weight of the great mountain-mass over us.

The miners were not at work on that day, but like gnomes they were silently coming and going
in the shadows, never omitting the "Glück auf!" as they met and parted. There were long, weary
stairs to climb. Finally we came to a little car running on a narrow inclined track. In this
we went rapidly through galleries and dry chambers, and finally were propelled into the daylight
with an unexpected velocity. We had become quite accustomed to our attire, but declined the
proposition of the photographer, who wished to turn his camera upon us for the benefit of friends
in America, and we gained the dressing-room with much more composure than we had felt when
leaving it.

It is believed that these mines were worked in the first century; and many a grave has been
opened in excavating which gave up bones and copper ornaments once belonging to Celtic salt-miners
of the third and fourth centuries. Towers erected in the thirteenth century are still strongholds.
The whole region, too, is full of salt-springs. The lofty mountains and rich valleys, the sequestered
lakes and blue-gray rivers with their waterfalls, and the old castles, quaint costumes, and
legends, make it a tempting country for such ease-loving travellers as were we five, and for
the intrepid Alpine climber it offers almost as much as any part of Switzerland.

That night we drove into Mozart's birthplace just as the Salzburg chimes were playing an evening
hymn of his composing. The curate and Elise seemed to have found something down in the salt-mine
of which they did not choose to talk, and, as we bade each other good-night, Cecilia said,
"I'm glad I did it, but I wouldn't go down there again: would you?" and Sarnayana and I thought
we wouldn't; but the others looked as if ready to repeat the excursion the following day.

P.S.--Elise and the curate are to be married, and the parish is to have a shepherdess. Cecilia,
Samayana, and I have no doubt of its being a love-match. She never could marry him after seeing
him in a salt-mine costume if she didn't love him. MARGERY DEANE.

ANTHONY CALVERT BROWN.

First, as my grandfather used to tell, there were the woods and the Oneida Indians and the
Mohawks; then the forest was cleared away, and there was the broad, fertile, grassy, and entrancingly-beautiful
Mohawk valley; then came villages and cities and my own unimportant existence, and at about
the same time appeared the Oneida Institute. This institution of learning is my first point.
The Oneida Institute, located in the village of Whitesboro, four miles from Utica, in the State
of New York, consisted visibly of three elongated erections of painted, white-pine clapboards,
with shingle roofs. Each structure was three stories high and was dotted with lines of little
windows. There was a surrounding farm and gardens, in which the students labored, that might
attract attention at certain hours of the day, when the laborers were at work in them; but
the buildings were the noticeable feature. Seated in the deep green of the vast meadows on
the west bank of the willow-shaded Mohawk, these staring white edifices were very conspicuous.
The middle one was turned crosswise, as if to keep the other two, which were parallel, as far
apart as possible. This middle one was also crowned with a fancy cupola, whereby the general
appearance of the group was just saved to a casual stranger from the certainty of its being
the penitentiary or almshouse of the county.

The glory of this institution was not in its architecture or lands, but in that part which
could not be seen by the bodily eyes. For, spiritually speaking, Oneida Institute was an immense
battering-ram, behind which Gerrit Smith, William Lloyd Garrison, and Rev. Beriah Green were
constantly at work, pounding away to destroy the walls which slavery had built up to protect
itself.

Mr. Green was president of the institute, and was the soul and heart and voice of its faculty.
His power to mould young men was phenomenal. It was a common saying that he turned out graduates
who were the perfect image of Beriah Green, except the wart. The wart was a large one, which,
being situated in the centre of Mr. Green's forehead, seemed to be a part of his method to
those who were magnetized by his personality or persuaded by his eloquence.

About 1845, when I began to be an observing boy, it was understood throughout Oneida County
that Beriah Green was an intellectual giant, and that he would sell his life, if need be, to
befriend the colored man. Oneida Institute was a refuge for the oppressed, quite as much as
a place where the students were magnetized and taught to weed onions. Fifteen years before
John Brown paused in his march to the gallows to kiss a negro baby I saw Beriah Green walk
hand in hand along the sidewalk with a black man and fondle the hand he held conspicuously.
Among his intimates were Ward and Garnet, both very black, as well as very talented and very
eloquent.

When "the friends of the cause" met in convention, I sometimes heard of it, and managed, boy-like,
to steal in. When I did so, I used to sit and shudder on a back seat in the little hall. The
anti-slavery denunciations poured out upon the churches, and backed up and pushed home by the
logic of Green and the eloquence of Smith, were well calculated to make an orthodox boy tremble.
For these people brought the churches and the nation before their bar and condemned them, and
some whom I have not named cursed them with a bitterness and effectiveness that I cannot recall
to this day without a shiver. The dramatic effect, as it then seemed to me, has never been
equalled in my experience.

That these extreme ideas did not prosper financially is not to be wondered at. The farm was
soon given up, then the buildings and gardens passed into other hands, and the institution
became a denominational school, known as the Whitestown Baptist Seminary. But the ideas which
had been implanted there would not consent to depart with this change in the name and the methods
of the institution. The fact that Beriah Green, after leaving the school, continued to reside
at Whitesboro and gathered a church there rendered it the more difficult to eradicate the doctrines
which he had implanted. The idea of friendship for the black man was particularly tenacious,
and perhaps annoying to the new and controlling denominational interest. It clung to the very
soil, like "pusley" in a garden. It had gained a strong hold throughout the county. The managers
of the institution could not openly oppose it. They were compelled to endure it. And so it
continued to be true that if a bright colored boy anywhere in the State desired the advantages
of a superior education he would direct his steps to Whitestown Seminary.

It was during these seminary days that I became a student at the institution; and it was here
that I met the hero of my story, Anthony Calvert Brown. He was as vigorous and manly a youth
of seventeen as I have ever seen. We two were regarded as special friends. He had been among
us nearly two months, and had become a general favorite, before it was discovered that he had
a tinge of African blood. The revelation of this fact was made to us on the play-ground. A
fellow student, who had come with Anthony to the school, made the disclosure. The two were
comrades, and had often told us of their adventures together in the great North woods, or Adirondack
forests, on the western border of which, in a remote settlement, they had their homes. Their
friendship did not prevent them from falling into a dispute, and it did not prevent Anthony's
comrade, who was in fact a bully, from descending to personalities. He hinted in very expressive
terms that the son of a colored woman must not be too positive. The meanness of such an insinuation,
made at such a time and in such a way, did not diminish its sting. Perhaps it increased it.
We saw Anthony, who had stood a moment before cool and defiant, turn away cowed and subdued,
his handsome face painfully suffused. His behavior was a confession.

I am sorry to say that after this incident Anthony did not hold the same position in our esteem
that he had previously enjoyed. Some half-dozen of us who cherished the old Institute feeling
were inclined to make a hero of him, but by degrees the sentiment of the new management prevailed,
and it was understood that Anthony was to be classed with those who must meekly endure an irreparable
misfortune. But Anthony did not seem to yield to this view. He was very proud, and braced himself
firmly against it. He withdrew more and more from his schoolmates and devoted his time to books.
In the matter of scholarship he gained the highest place, and held it to the close of our two-years'
course. In the mean time, his peculiarities were often made the subject of remark among us.
His growing reserve and dignity, his reputation as a scholar, and his reticence and isolation
were frequently discussed. And there was the mystery of his color. It was a disputed question
among us whether the African taint could be detected in his appearance. Ray, the comrade who
had revealed it, claimed that it was plainly perceptible, while Yerrinton, the oldest student
among us, declared that there was not a trace of it to be seen. He argued that Anthony was
several shades lighter than Daniel Webster, and he asserted enthusiastically that he had various
traits in common with that great statesman. But, then, Yerrinton was a disciple of Beriah Green,
and his opinion was not regarded as unbiassed. For myself, I could never detect any appearance
of African blood in Anthony, although my knowledge of its existence influenced my feelings
toward him. To me he seemed to carry himself with a noble bearing,--under a shadow, it is true,
yet as if he were a king among us. I remember thinking that his broad forehead, slightly-Roman
nose, mobile lips, and full features wore a singularly mournful and benevolent expression,
like the faces sometimes seen in Egyptian sculpture.

I did not discuss the matter of his peculiarities with Anthony freely until after our school-days
at the seminary were ended and he had left Whitestown. His first letter to me was a partial
revelation of his thoughts upon the subject of his own character and feelings. He had gone
to Philadelphia to teach in a large school, while I remained with my relatives in Whitesboro.
He wrote me that he was troubled in regard to certain matters of which he had never spoken
to any one, not even to me, and he thought it would be a good thing for him to present them
for consideration, if I was willing to give him the benefit of my counsel. In reply I urged
that he should confide in me fully, assuring him of my desire to assist him to the utmost of
my ability.

The communication which I received in response to my invitation was to some extent a surprise.
The letter was a very long one, and very vivid and expressive. He began it by alluding to the
incident upon the play-ground, which had occurred nearly two years before. He said that his
life had been guarded, up to about that time, from feeling the effects of the misfortunes which
attach to the colored race. Living in a remote settlement and a very pleasant home, where all
were free and equal and social distinctions almost unknown, he had scarcely thought of the
fact that his mother was an octoroon. He had heard her talk a great deal about those distinguished
French gentlemen who had in the early part of this century acquired lands in the vicinity of
his home, and he had somehow a feeling that she had been remotely connected with them, and
that his own lineage was honorable. He alluded specifically to Le Ray de Chaumont and Joseph
Bonaparte. These two men, and others their countrymen, who had resided or sojourned upon the
edge of the great wilderness near his birthplace, had been his ideals from childhood. He had
often visited Lake Bonaparte, and had frequently seen the home formerly occupied by Le Ray.
While he had understood that he himself was only plain Anthony C. Brown, the son of Thomas
Brown (a white man who had died some two months before his son's birth), he had yet an impression
that his mother was in some vague way connected with the great personages whom he mentioned.
How it was that Thomas Brown had come to marry his mother, or what the details of her early
life had been, he did not know, being, in fact, ignorant of his family history. He conceded
that it might be only his own imagination that had led him to suppose that he was in some indefinite
way to be credited with the greatness of those wealthy landed proprietors who had endeavored
to establish manorial estates or seigniories in the wilderness. He had come to understand that
this unexplainable impression of superiority and connection with the great, which had always
been with him in childhood and early youth, was due to his mother's influence and teaching.
There was about it nothing direct and specific, and yet it had been instilled into his mind,
in indirect ways, until it was an integral part of his existence. His mother had a farm and
cattle and money. She was in better circumstances than her neighbors. This had added to his
feeling of superiority and independence. The accident of a slight tinge of color had hardly
risen even to the dignity of a joke in the freedom of the settlement and the forest. Looking
back, he believed that his mother had guarded his youthful mind against receiving any unfavorable
impression upon the subject. In his remote, free, wilderness home he had heard but little of
African slavery, and had regarded it as a far-off phantom, like heathendom or witchcraft.

Such had been the state of mind of Anthony Brown. The light had, however, been gradually let
in upon him in the course of an excursion which he and his comrade Ray had made the year previous
to their appearance at Whitestown Seminary. In that excursion they had visited Chicago, Cleveland,
Niagara Falls, Buffalo, Syracuse, Rochester, New York, and Albany. They had strayed into a
court-room in the City Hall at Albany, where many people were listening to the argument of
counsel who were discussing the provisions of the will of a wealthy lady, deceased. A colored
man was mixed up in the matter in some way,--probably as executor and legatee. Anthony heard
with breathless interest the legal disabilities of colored people set forth, and their inferior
social position commented upon. He learned that the ancestral color descended to the children
of a colored mother, although they might appear to be white. These statements had impressed
him deeply. They furnished to his mind an explanation of the various evidences of the degradation
of the colored people he had seen upon his journey. Talking of these matters, he had found
that Ray was much better informed than himself upon the entire subject. Ray, in fact, frankly
explained that a colored man had no chance in this country. This was in 1859. Anthony suggested
in his letter to me that he had probably been kept from acquiring this knowledge earlier in
life by his mother's anxious care and the kindness of friends and neighbors. He explained that
he did not mean to be understood as intimating that he had not some general knowledge of the
facts previously, but it was this experience which had made him feel that slavery was a reality
and that all colored people belonged to a despised race. After his return home he had carefully
refrained from imparting to his mother any hint of his newly-acquired impressions in reference
to the social and legal standing of the colored race. In the enjoyment of home comforts, and
in the freedom of the wild woods and waters, the shadow which had threatened in his thoughts
to descend upon him passed away. He remembered it only as a dream which might not trouble him
again, and which he would not cherish. Still, there was a lurking uneasiness and anxiety, born
of the inexorable facts, which favorable circumstances and youthful vivacity could not wholly
overcome.

In this state of mind Anthony, in accordance with the wish of his mother, came to Whitestown
Seminary. His description of his first impressions there was very glowing. He wrote,--

"I cannot hope, my dear friend, to give you any adequate idea of what I then experienced. For
the first time in my life I found kindred spirits. Your companionship in particular threw a
light upon my pathway that made the days all bright and gave me such joy as I had never before
known. And there was Ralph, so kind and true, and Henry Rose, so honest and faithful! I cannot
tell you how my heart embraced them. It is a simple truth, telling less than I felt, when I
say that I could scarcely sleep for thinking of my newfound treasures. You need to remember
what it is to dwell in a rough country, isolated and remote from towns, to appreciate my experience.
To me, coming to Whitestown was a translation to Paradise. It seems extravagant, yet it is
true, that I met there those who were dearer than my life and for whom I would have died. The
first warm friendships of youth are the purest and whitest flowers that bloom in the soul.
If these are blighted, it is forever. Such flowers in any one life can never grow again.

"And this brings me to that sad day when on the play-ground Ray struck at me, and through me
at my dear, loving mother. As he spoke those cruel words the world grew dark about me, the
dread fear which I had subdued revived with tenfold power, and upon my heart came the pangs
of an indescribable anguish. Oh, the chill, the death-like chill, that froze the current of
my affections as I saw the faces of those I loved averted!

"I went to my room and tried to reflect, but I could not. The shock was too great. During the
week that followed I was most of the time in my silent room. I may well call it silent, for
the footsteps to which I had been accustomed came no more, and the comrades in whose friendship
I had such delight no longer sought my company. That dreadful week was the turning-point in
my life. As it drew toward its close I realized to some extent what I had been through, as
one does who is recovering from a severe illness. I knew that day and night I had wept and
moaned and could see no hope, no ray of light, and that I had at times forgotten my religion
and blasphemed. It is true, my dear friend, that I mocked my God. Do not judge me hastily in
this. I was without discipline or experience, and I saw that for all sorrow except mine there
was a remedy. Even for sin there is repentance and redemption, and the pains of hell itself
may be avoided. But for my trouble there could be no relief. The thought that I was accursed
from the day of my birth, that no effort, no sacrifice, no act of heroism, on my part could
ever redeem me, haunted my soul, and I knew that it must haunt me from that time onward and
forever.

"I need hardly tell you, with your insight and knowledge, that these inward struggles led toward
a not unusual conclusion. I allude to the determination to which multitudes of souls have been
driven in all ages, to escape the tortures of disgrace. I turned away from humanity and sought
that fearful desert of individual loneliness and isolation which is now more sad and real to
me than any outward object can be. To live in the voiceless solitude and tread the barren sands
unfriended is too much for a strong man with all the aids that philosophy can give him. But
when we see one in the first flush of youth, wholly innocent, yet turning his footsteps to
the great desert to get away from the scorn of lovers and friends, and when we realize that
this which he dreads must continue to the last hour of his life, there is to my mind a ghastliness
about it as if it were seen in the light of the pit which is bottomless. I have not recovered,
and can never recover, from that experience. You will infer, however, that I did not remain
in just the condition of mind which I have endeavored to describe. He whom I had blasphemed
came to me, and I was penitent. The teachings of good Father Michael at our home, the doctrines
of our Church, and the examples of the blessed saints, were my salvation. Then I felt that
I would dwell alone with God. And there was something grand about that, and very noble. The
purest joy of life is possible in such an experience. Yet it is not enough, especially in youth.
But I think I should have continued in that frame of mind had it not been for you and Ralph.
How you two came to me and besought my friendship I need not remind you. Neither need I say
how my pride yielded; and if there was anything to forgive I forgave it, and felt the light
of friendship, which had been withdrawn from my inner world, come back with a joy that has
increased as it has continued.

"Coming to this city of 'brotherly love,' I begin my life anew, and at the very threshold a
painful question meets me. No faces are averted, no one suspects my social standing. A thrill
of kindness is in every voice. What can I do? Must I advertise myself as smitten with a plague?
I dare not tell you of the favors that society bestows upon me. It is but little more than
a month since I came to Philadelphia, and during that short period I have in some strange way
become popular. My sincere effort politely to avoid society seems only to have resulted in
precipitating a shower of invitations upon me. Evidently the fact that I am tinged with African
blood is wholly unsuspected. You understand, I think, how I gained this place as teacher in
the school. It was through the interposition of Father Michael and certain powerful Protestant
friends of his who are unknown to me. It was not my own doing, and I do not feel that I am
to blame. But I will frankly tell you that it seems to me cowardly to go forward under false
colors. One thing I am resolved upon,--I will never be ashamed of my dear mother. Where I go
she shall go, and she shall come here if she is inclined to do so. As you have never seen her,
I may say that she is regarded as dark for an octoroon, and with her presence no explanation
will be necessary. But ought I to wait for that? She may not choose to come. How can I best
be an honest man? It seems silly, and it would be ridiculous, to give out generally here as
a matter for the public that I am the son of a negro woman. Yet I think it must come to that
in some way. What shall I do?"

This letter caused me to think of Anthony and his trouble much more seriously than before.
It was clear to me why he was popular. I had never met any young man who was by nature more
sympathetic and attractive. The reserve and sadness which had recently come upon him were not
to his disadvantage socially. They rather tended to gain attention and win the kindness of
strangers. The question which his position presented, and about which he desired my counsel,
troubled me. But, fortunately, after thinking of it almost constantly for two days, I gave
him advice which I still think correct under the circumstances. I argued that he was not under
any obligation to advertise himself to the public as a colored man. The public did not expect
or require this of any one. But I urged that if he made any special friends among those who
entertained him socially and with whom he was intimate, he should frankly make known to them
the facts in regard to his family. I thought this would be expected, and I was convinced that
such a presentation of his position, made without affectation, would win for him respect even
from those who might cease to court his society. I further urged that he ought not, as a teacher,
to isolate himself or shun those relations with families which would place upon him the obligation
to make known his parentage.

Anthony sent a brief note in reply to my letter, thanking me heartily for what he termed my
convincing statement, and expressing his determination to act in accordance with it.

Nearly two months passed, and then my friend communicated the further fact that he had gone
so far, in several instances, and with several families, as to carry out the suggestions I
had made. He thought it was too soon to assert what the ultimate result would be, but stated
the immediate effects so far as he could see them. When he first made the announcement in regard
to his color, many had disbelieved it. When his persistent and repeated declarations upon various
occasions had convinced his friends that it was not a jest, but a reality, they had been variously
affected by it. He thought some were politely leaving him, while others seemed desirous of
continuing his acquaintance.

Ten days later I was not a little surprised to receive a letter conveying the information that
Anthony's mother had arrived in Philadelphia in response to his invitation. He stated, in his
letter to me giving this news, that he had now carried out his entire plan and was satisfied.
His mother had visited his school, and he had introduced her to his various friends in the
city. It seemed to me a mistake thus unnecessarily to run the risk of offending social preferences
or prejudices; but I did not feel at liberty to comment upon the matter at the time.

In addition to the information conveyed, the letter contained an invitation which delighted
me. Anthony wrote that he and his mother were about returning home. The long vacation would
begin in a few days, and they wished that I should go with them for a visit. Few things could
have afforded me greater satisfaction than this. The wild forest-country, of which my school-mate
had told me much, I regarded as peculiarly a region of romance and adventure.

It was a beautiful morning early in July when we three, with a team and a driver, left the
Mohawk valley and climbed the Deerfield hills, making our way northward. On the evening of
the first day we readied the hills of Steuben and gained a first glimpse of that broad, beautiful
forest-level, known as the Black River country, which stretches away toward the distant St.
Lawrence. The next day we descended to this level, and, following the narrow road through forests,
and clearings, and little settlements, and villages, arrived just at nightfall at the home
of my friends. It was a small, unpainted, wooden house, standing near the road. Back of it
were barns and sheds, and I saw cattle and sheep grazing. The zigzag rail fence common to the
region surrounded the cleared lots in sight, and in front of the house, across the road, were
the wild woods. A wood-thrush, or veery, was pouring out his thrilling, liquid notes as we
arrived. A white woman and a large, black, shaggy dog came out of the house to welcome us;
and a few minutes later I had the best room, up-stairs over the front door, assigned to me,
and was a guest in the domicile of my friend Anthony.

The location was a delightful one, about three miles west of the little village of Champion,
near which was a small lake, where we spent many morning hours. From a height not far away
we had glimpses, in clear weather, of the mountains, seen in airy outline toward the eastward.

My friend had the horses and wagons of the farm at his command, and we took many long rides
to visit places of interest. On several occasions we saw the decaying chateau of Le Ray, which
was but little more than an hour's ride to the northward of Anthony's home; and on one occasion
we went a day's journey and saw the stony little village of Antwerp, and visited that beautiful
sheet of water on the margin of the wilderness, known as Lake Bonaparte. Joseph Bonaparte frequently
visited this lake, and he owned lands in its vicinity, and made some improvements upon them
in 1828.

Anthony's mother was a tall, spare woman, with a wrinkled face and large, straight features.
She seemed to me a curious mixture of European features with a dark skin. She used French phrases
in a peculiar way, and was full of the history of Le Ray and Bonaparte and various members
of the company that had undertaken to make of this section, in years gone by, a rich and fertile
country like the Mohawk valley. It appeared that the name which the company had given to this
region was Castorland, which she interpreted to mean the land of the beaver. She had, among
other curiosities, some coins or tokens which had been stamped in Paris on behalf of the company,
and on which the word "Castorland," accompanied by suitable devices, was plainly seen. The
one that interested me most seemed to have as its device the representation of a small dog
trying to climb a tree. I was informed, however, that the animal was a beaver, and that he
was cutting down the tree with his teeth.

After talking freely with the mother, Antoinette Brown, I did not wonder that Anthony had learned
to honor the gentlemen who had come from France to this region in early days as among the greatest
men in the world. I did not find myself able to discredit her realistic and vivid description
of the visits of Joseph Bonaparte to his wilderness domain in a six-horse chariot, followed
by numerous retainers. Neither did I find myself able to disbelieve in the accuracy of her
picturesque description of Joseph Bonaparte's Venetian gondola floating upon the waters of
Northern New York, or her account of his dinner-service of "golden plate" spread out by the
road-side on one memorable occasion when he paused in his kingly ride and dined in a picturesque
place near the highway. She told in a convincing manner many traditions relating to the enterprise
which was to have made of the Black-River country a rich farming region not inferior to the
Mohawk Flats. The fact that nature had not seconded this undertaking had not diminished Mrs.
Brown's impressions of its magnitude and importance. The great tracts which had been purchased
and the great men who had purchased them were vividly impressed upon her imagination. In reference
to her personal history, except for a few allusions to life in New York City, she was reticent.

I remained nearly two months at the home of my friend, and became familiar with the places
of interest surrounding it. The little lake was a memorable spot, for there Anthony first told
me the full story of his experiences in Philadelphia. He did not conceal the fact that an attachment
was growing up between himself and the daughter of his best friend there, Mr. Zebina Allen.
The way to make his permanent home in the Quaker City seemed to be opening before him. That
I should go with him for a few days to Philadelphia when he returned, to "see how the land
lay," as he expressed it in backwoods phrase, was one of his favorite ideas. He made so much
of this point that I finally consented to accompany him.

It was a rainy day early in September when we stepped off the cars and went to Anthony's boarding-place
in the good old city that held the one he loved and his fortunes. I was introduced to various
friends of his, and during the first twenty-four hours of my sojourn I was delighted with all
matters that came under my observation. I was especially pleased with Mr. Allen and his daughter
Caroline. But within two days I saw, or fancied that I saw, a curious scrutiny and reserve
in the faces of some of those with whom we conversed.

I think Anthony was more surprised than I was when he received a note from one of the trustees
intimating that important changes were likely to be made in reference to the educational methods
to be employed in the school, and that, in view of these changes, it was barely possible that
some new arrangements in regard to teachers might be desired by the patrons of the institution.
The trustee professed to have written this information in order that "Mr. Brown" might not
be taken wholly by surprise in case any step affecting his position should be found advisable.

The circumlocution and indefiniteness of this letter led me to infer that there was something
behind it which the writer had not stated. It soon appeared that my friend agreed with me in
this inference. I could not but smile at the coolness with which he quoted the common phrase
to the effect that there was an African in the fence.

"I fear it is the old story over again," he said; "but I am glad I have done my duty to myself
and to my dear mother, whatever the consequences may be."

After some discussion, it was agreed that I should call at Mr. Allen's office (he was a lawyer)
and endeavor to obtain from him a statement of all he might know of the new arrangement announced
in the letter which had been received. I lost no time in entering upon my mission. But I was
compelled to make several applications at the office before it was possible for Mr. Allen to
give me a hearing. A late hour of the business-day was, however, finally assigned to me, and
just as the gas was lighted I found myself by appointment in a private room used for consultation,
sitting face to face with Mr. Allen. I briefly stated my errand, and presented the trustee's
letter to him as a more complete explanation of my verbal statement.

"Yes, I see," said Mr. Allen thoughtfully, after reading the letter and returning it to me.
And he tilted back his chair, clasped his hands behind his head, and gazed for some minutes
reflectively at the ceiling. I sat quietly and studied his face and the objects in the room.
He was a large man, squarely built, with straight, strongly-marked features, blue eyes, and
sandy hair. In the midst of his books and papers he seemed to me a sterner man than I had previously
thought him. "Yes, I see," he repeated, at the close of his period of reflection. And then
he removed his hands from his head and placed them on his knees, and brought his chair squarely
to the floor, and, leaning forward toward me, looked keenly in my face, and said, "Did I understand
that you were one of those people,--that is, similar to Mr. Brown?"

"How, sir?" said I in bewilderment. "How do you mean?"

A moment later the purport of the question, which I had in a strange way seemed to feel as
it was coming, dawned fully upon me, or I should rather say struck me, so sharp and sudden
was the shock I experienced. If there was anything in which I was secure and of which I had
reason to be proud, it was my Puritan and English ancestry. As the blood flew to my youthful
face in instinctive protest and indignation, my appearance must have been a sufficient answer
to my interrogator; for I remember that he, at once springing to his feet, offered me his hand,
making profuse apologies and begging a thousand pardons.

I somewhat stammeringly explained that it was of no consequence, and proceeded to name the
families in my ancestral line, adding the remark that these families, both those on my father's
side and those on my mother's side, were pretty well known, and that they were the genuine
English and Puritan stock.

"They are indeed, sir," said Mr. Allen, "and I congratulate you. I know the value of a good
lineage, and I feel safe in talking freely with a gentleman of your standing in regard to this
disagreeable business."

At about this stage in the proceedings I felt an obscure twinge. My conscience was uneasy;
for I found myself taking sides with Mr. Allen in favor of family pride and against "those
people," as he had termed persons of doubtful color. I had instinctively defended myself against
the suggestion that I might possibly be one of them. If this skilful lawyer had intended, as
possibly he did, to disarm me wholly at the outset, so that I could make no attack upon the
position which he intended to assume, he could not have done it more effectually.

"The truth is," said Mr. Allen cheerfully, "we regard Mr. Brown as about the best and most
intelligent young man that has ever taught in our school. He is manly, and conscientious to
a fault. Aside from his family, the only trouble I find with him is that he is not politic.
It was very honorable in him to state to us his parentage as he did. If he had been willing
to stop there, possibly we might have managed it,--at least so far as the school was concerned.
But it was not necessary and it was not wise to bring that colored woman here. It may have
been remarkably filial and brave, and all that, but it was not judicious. I think you will
agree with me that it was not judicious."

I hesitatingly admitted that it probably was not.

"I felt sure that you would take a sensible view of the matter," said Mr, Allen. "I am truly
sorry that Mr. Brown could not have been more discreet. If he has imagined that he could push
that woman into our society, he is mistaken. And now, while I think of it, there is a message
which I should be glad to send to Mr. Brown, if you will be so kind as to convey it."

I expressed my willingness to carry the message.

"It has probably come to your knowledge that my daughter Caroline has won the admiration of
Mr. Brown."

I replied that Anthony had mentioned it.

"The truth is," resumed Mr. Allen, "we entertained the highest opinion of the young man, and
he has visited frequently at our house. I am willing to admit to you that the feeling I spoke
of has been mutual. With your appreciation of the claims of propriety, the impossibility of
a union will of course be apparent to you."

"Then you regard it as impossible?" I asked.

"Yes," he replied. "Do you not so regard it? Think for a moment what it involves. Some friends
of ours in a Western city, as my wife was saying yesterday, have had a trouble of this kind
a generation or two back, and the children of the present family are in a condition of chronic
worry upon the subject. They are wealthy, and are regarded and treated in society as white
people; but the two young ladies use some kind of whitening on their faces habitually. The
circumstances of the case are pretty generally known, and you can understand how unpleasant
such a matter must be to the entire family. It is claimed that a tinge of color sometimes passes
over a generation and appears more markedly in the next. I do not know how that may be, but
the idea of the risk is enough to give one chills. There is a story that the Western family
of which I spoke has a colored grandson concealed somewhere. Of course I do not know whether
it is true or not; but it serves as an illustration.

"My message to Mr. Brown is, that, under all the circumstances, we think he should discontinue
his visits at our house. I presume he will see that he should take that course. I shall always
be glad to meet him anywhere except at my home. In regard to a business engagement, if he will
allow me to say a word, I would suggest that he should teach our colored school. They are looking
for a teacher just now, as it happens, and he would be very popular in that capacity."

I could not but admit that Mr. Allen's suggestions were characterized by practical wisdom,
but I hinted that the course proposed seemed hardly just to Anthony.

"As to that," said Mr. Allen, "it is true that our laws and customs are unjust and cruel in
their treatment of a subjugated race. But it is not wrong to avoid marriage with any other
race than our own. As to the part that is unjust, you and I cannot remedy that. So far as we
are individually concerned, we may deal justly with the down-trodden, and I hope we do so;
but the great wrong will still remain."

I left the office of Mr. Allen, feeling that he was in the right. I went directly to Anthony,
and, with a heavy heart, reported to him the particulars of the interview. It was a painful
shock, but he bore it with greater calmness and fortitude than I had expected. When I had concluded
the recital, he remarked sadly that he found it impossible to say that Mr. Allen was wrong,
hard as the truth seemed. He felt that marriage was out of the question, and said that he would
not have indulged the thought of it if he had reflected upon the matter carefully. He was not
fully decided what course he would pursue. It was too painful a subject and involved too great
a change to admit of a hasty decision; and he desired my best thoughts and counsel, which I
gave him.

After two days I returned to Whitesboro, leaving Anthony in Philadelphia, still pondering the
course he would pursue. Three weeks later I received a letter from him, in which he announced
that he had taken the colored school.

Four months passed away. Then I received from my friend a long communication, setting forth
rather formally his experience in his new position and unfolding to me new views which he had
gained by reflection and contact with the world. He also presented the plan of life which he
had decided upon, if I approved. I was greatly surprised at the entire revolution in his ideas
which had been effected by his observation and his courageous mental struggles.

"My own thoughts," he wrote, "have been completely changed by reading and reflection. There
are three aspects of this subject which I wish to make clear to you. There is first the view
that every colored man has some sort of strange, mysterious curse resting upon him by a law
of his nature. The idea is that, although the black man in any given instance may be superior,
spiritually, intellectually, and physically, to his white neighbor, yet he cannot equal him
because of this mysterious curse. This view, sad as it is (advocated by the white race), has
settled down upon the minds of millions of colored people. It has crushed out of them all self-reliance
and independence. It fastens tenaciously upon the quiet, sensitive spirit, destroying its hope
and self-respect and enterprise. I need not tell you how near I have come to being shipwrecked
by its influence. But it is founded upon a lie. It is a lie backed up by the assertion, practically,
of nations and of millions of intelligent persons acting in their individual capacity. It is,
however, none the less a base, malignant falsehood, robbing the spirit that is cowed and crushed
by it of the sweetest possessions of life. A similar falsehood has established castes in India,
and still another has subjugated woman in many lands, making her a soulless being and the slave
of man.

"If any black man has greater wisdom, strength, and goodness than the majority of white men,
he is higher in the scale of manhood than they. The real question involved is a comparison
of individuals, and not of races.

"You will remember how Homer, in the Iliad, praises the blameless Ethiopians, beloved of the
gods and dwelling in a wide land that stretches from the rising to the setting of the sun.
The ancient historians praise them also. Words of commendation of this great historic people
are found in the ancient classics. So far as I can discover, the prejudice against color is
of modern origin.

"I believe that at no very distant day the slaves will be liberated, and that the Almighty
will be the avenger of their wrongs.

"I turn now to consider the second aspect of this subject. When a colored man is wise enough
and courageous enough to embrace the views which I have presented, he may still be compelled,
as a part of his lot in life, to submit to the assumption that he is inferior. It is hard to
live in this way in the shadow of a great lie, but it is better than to have the iron enter
more deeply into the soul, so as to compel belief of the lie, as is the case with millions
of human beings. When the spirit is enfranchised I can understand that one may lead a very
noble life in cheerfully submitting to the inevitable misfortune. There are a few colored men
who thus recognize the truth, and yet bow to the great sorrow, which they cannot escape, with
noble and manly fortitude. I confess that I have entertained thoughts of attempting such a
life. I think I could do so if I could see that any great good would be accomplished by it.
But my experience here has taught me that any such sacrifice is not required of me. I find
that it is not to the advantage of the colored people to be taught at present. They tell me
that as they grow in knowledge their degradation becomes more apparent to them, and their sufferings
greater. They leave the school with the impression that for them ignorance rather than knowledge
is the road to happiness. I cannot deny the truth of their reasoning. If they could be raised
above the sense of degradation from which they suffer, it would be different. But, apparently,
this cannot be done. It is at least impossible in the few years which can be given to their
instruction in the schools now provided for their education. The prevailing sentiment among
them is against education and in favor of a thoughtless and easy life. They do not wish to
face those fires through which the awakened spirit, crushed by hopeless oppression, must necessarily
pass. Only yesterday a young man described to me, with thrilling pathos, the anguish of spirit
with which he had felt the fetters tightening upon him as his knowledge increased.

"I do not feel called upon, therefore, to devote my life to teaching. If there was hope left
in the case, perhaps I might do so. I would labor on willingly if there were light ahead. But,
with millions in slavery and others as tightly bound down by prejudice as if they were slaves,
I see no encouragement. I think it the wiser course to wait, trusting that Providence will
open a way for a change to come. And this brings me to the third aspect of this matter, and
the last phase of it which I desire to consider. It seems to me to be my duty and privilege
to withdraw from the unequal contest. The stupendous lie which crushes the mass of the colored
race has not imposed itself upon me, although I have had a terrible struggle with it that nearly
cost me my reason. I am not so situated as to be compelled to live among those whose very presence
would be a constant shadow, a burden to me and a reproach to my existence. Fortunately, I am
not compelled to accept the great misfortune and bow to the assumptions of a ruling race. I
can retire to the fastnesses of my native hills and forests, where petty distinctions fade
away in the majestic presence of nature. I am already beginning to anticipate the change, and
instinctively asserting that independence which I feel. Indeed, I have given offence in several
instances. I have no trouble with solid business-men like Mr. Allen. They have the good sense
and fairness to recognize the fact that a man is a man wherever you find him. But some people
of the fanciful sort, with less brains than I have, do me the honor to be angry because I do
not submit to any assumptions of superiority on their part. I might be so situated that it
would be wisdom to submit, to bend to a lie, to lead the life of a martyr, as some noble men
of my acquaintance do under such circumstances. But, fortunately, I can afford to be independent,
and I shall do so and take the risk of bodily violence.

"You have now my plan of life and my reasons for it. I shall adhere to it under all ordinary
circumstances. Nevertheless, if Providence calls me to some work where great good can be done,
I will sacrifice my independence and take up the load of misfortune which prejudice imposes,
if that is required, and try to bear meekly the burden and do my duty in the battle of life.
But I hope this may not be required of me. Around my home, as you know, are many immigrants,
foreign-born, who do not inherit or feel the prejudice against color. My family is already
one of the wealthiest and most influential in our little community. With such property as I
have and can readily gain, and with such school-teaching and political teaching as I can do,
it is a settled thing that our standing will be at the head of society and business, so far
as we have any such distinctions among us. To refer to the matter of color in a business light,
I may remind you that its trace is very faint in our family line. Already it has entirely disappeared
in my own person. With wealth and position it will be to me at home as though it were not;
and when my dear mother passes away it will disappear entirely and be speedily lost to memory.
I do not mean by this to shirk the position of the colored man, of which I have had a bitter
taste. I only mean to show you the brightness and hope of my situation. I trust that you will
approve of the course which I have marked out, and give me some credit for courage in meeting
and conquering the grisly terror, the base lie, which sought to blast my life."

It would be difficult to express too strongly my admiration for my friend as I read the letter
from which I have quoted. It seemed to me wonderful that he had been able to so disentangle
himself from difficulties. The cool intrepidity with which he had fought his way through those
mental troubles which had seemed at one time about to overwhelm him was to me the most astonishing
part of the performance. I wrote to him in terms of the highest commendation, frankly expressing
my astonishment at the vigor, truth, and force apparent in his actions and his reasoning. He
was satisfied with my letter, and proceeded to close up his affairs in a deliberate and decorous
manner before returning home and carrying his plan into execution. It was his idea that I should
spend some months each year with him, and he had made other friends who would be invited to
visit him.

But the plan which Anthony had formed was never executed. Matters were as I have described,
when the war of the Rebellion broke out. Here was that call to public duty which he had alluded
to as a possible interference which might change the course of his life. He felt from the first
that the contest was a fight for the black man, and he was anxious to engage in it. In a hasty
letter to me he recognized the fact that the spirit of John Brown, whom he greatly admired,
was still busy in the affairs of the nation, although his body was sleeping in the grave at
North Elba.

Anthony Brown enlisted in a white regiment, there being no trace of color about him and no
objection being made. He claimed to have a presentiment that he would fall in battle at an
early day. Whether it was a presentiment or a mere fancy, it was his fate. He now rests with
the indistinguishable dead

Where the buzzard, flying, Pauses at Malvern Hill.

When I learned of his death, a duty fell upon me. He had written in one of his letters that
if he did not return from the war he would like to have me tell his mother the true history
of his life. He had concealed from her his struggles in reference to color. She knew nothing
of his trials at Whitesboro or at Philadelphia. No words had ever passed between them upon
the subject. He thought it better, if he lived, that she should never know, but if he died
he wished that his history should be fully made known to her.

I made the journey on horseback over the ground I have already described. It was a delightful
autumn day when I passed through the village of Champion and went on to Mrs. Brown's home.
She was expecting me, as I had written in advance announcing my intended visit. I could see
that she was greatly pleased to receive me. I had been at the house two days before I ventured
to introduce, in a formal manner, the subject of my mission. Talking of old times, and leading
gradually up to the subject, I frankly stated that Anthony had charged me to tell her the story
of his personal history, and I exhibited his letter to her. It was after dinner, as we were
sitting in the front room reading and talking. Mrs. Brown immediately became excited and anxious
to hear. As I disclosed the sorrow of Anthony's life and related the particulars of his career,
the effect upon her was not at all what I had expected. She became more and more excited and
distressed. At last she called sharply to her servant-girl, Melissa, and told her to go and
bring Father Michael, and to bid him come immediately. While Melissa was gone, Mrs. Brown,
with a great deal of agitation in her manner, proceeded to question me in regard to the incidents
of Anthony's career in Philadelphia, and frequently broke out with the exclamation, "Why could
we not have known?"

Soon Father Michael came, and the woman assailed him at once in a harsh and accusing manner,
speaking in the French language with great volubility. He replied to her in the same tongue.
There was only here and there a word that I could understand. It was plain, however, that there
was a contest between them, and that it related to my deceased friend.

By degrees the matter was so far made plain that I understood that Anthony was not the son
of Mrs. Brown, but was of the purest white blood and connected with people of rank. Beyond
this I was not permitted to know his history. When I asked questions, Father Michael replied
that it was better "not to break through the wall of the past." He said it was too late now
to aid Anthony, but added that the trouble might have been averted if it had been known at
the time.

A day later I took my departure. As I travelled back to Whitesboro I reflected upon the strange
events that had shaped Anthony's career. When I turned on the Steuben hills and looked once
more upon Castorland, it seemed to me a region of mystery; and the useless tears fell from
my eyes as I remembered how one of its secrets had darkened the life of the dearest friend
of my youth.

I subsequently learned that Miss Allen, of Philadelphia, suffered indirectly from the effects
of Anthony's misfortune. She was not able to forget the man she had chosen.

I have never learned the facts in regard to the early history and real parentage of Anthony
Calvert Brown.

P. DEMING.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE SHORT-STORY.

When artists fall to talking about their art, it is the critic's place to listen to see if
he may not pick up a little knowledge. Of late, certain of the novelists of Great Britain and
the United States have been discussing the principles and the practice of the art of writing
stories. Mr. Howells declared his warm appreciation of Mr. Henry James's novels; Mr. R.L. Stevenson
made public a delightful plea for Romance; Mr. Walter Besant lectured gracefully on the Art
of Fiction; and Mr. Henry James modestly presented his views by way of supplement and criticism.
The discussion took a wide range. With more or less fullness it covered the proper aim and
intent of the novelist, his material and his methods, his success, his rewards, social and
pecuniary, and the morality of his work and of his art. But, with all its extension, the discussion
did not include one important branch of the art of fiction: it did not consider at all the
minor art of the Short-story. Although neither Mr. Howells nor Mr. James, Mr. Besant nor Mr,
Stevenson, specifically limited his remarks to those longer, and, in the picture-dealer's sense
of the word, more "important," tales known as Novels, and although, of course, their general
criticisms of the abstract principles of the art of fiction applied quite as well to the Short-story
as to the Novel, yet all their concrete examples were full-length Novels, and the Short-story,
as such, received no recognition at all. Yet the compatriots of Poe and of Hawthorne cannot
afford to ignore the Short-story as a form of fiction; and it has seemed to the present writer
that there is now an excellent opportunity to venture a few remarks, slight and incomplete
as they must needs be, on the philosophy of the Short-story.

The difference between a Novel and a Novelette is one of length only: a Novelette is a brief
Novel. The difference in spirit and in form between the Lyric and the Epic is scarcely greater
than the difference between the Short-story and the Novel; and "The Raven" and "How we brought
the good news from Ghent to Aix" are not more unlike "The Lady of the Lake" and "Paradise Lost,"
in form and in spirit, than "The Luck of Roaring Camp" and "The Man without a Country"--two
typical Short-stories--are unlike "Vanity Fair" and "The Heart of Midlothian,"--two typical Novels.

Another great difference between the Short-story and the Novel lies in the fact that the Novel,
nowadays at least, must be a love-tale, while the Short-story need not deal with love at all.
Although "Vanity Fair" was a Novel without a hero, nearly every other Novel has a hero and
a heroine, and the novelist, however unwillingly, must concern himself in their love-affairs.
But the writer of Short-stories is under no bonds of this sort. Of course he may tell a tale
of love if he choose, and if love enters into his tale naturally and to its enriching, but
he need not bother with love at all unless he please. Some of the best of Short-stories are
love-stories too,--Mr. Aldrich's "Margery Daw," for instance, Mr. Stimpson's "Mrs. Knollys,"
Mr. Bunner's "Love in Old Clothes;" but more of them are not love-stories at all. If we were
to pick out the ten best Short-stories, I think we should find that fewer than half of them
made any mention at all of love. In "The Snow Image" and in "The Ambitious Guest," in "The
Gold-Bug" and in "The Fall of the House of Usher," in "My Double and how he Undid me," in "Devil-Puzzlers,"
in "The Outcasts of Poker Flat," in "Jean-ah Poquelin," in "A Bundle of Letters," there is
little or no mention of the love of man for woman, which is the chief topic of conversation
in a Novel. While the Novel cannot get on without love, the Short-story can. Since love is
almost the only thing which will give interest to a long story, the writer of Novels has to
get love into his tales as best he may, even when the subject rebels and when he himself is
too old to take any interest in the mating of John and Joan. But the Short-story, being brief,
does not need a love-interest to hold its parts together, and the writer of Short-stories has
thus a greater freedom: he may do as he pleases; from him a love-tale is not expected.

But other things are required of a writer of Short-stories which are not required of a writer
of Novels. The novelist may take his time: he has abundant room to turn about. The writer of
Short-stories must be concise, and compression, a vigorous compression, is essential. For him,
more than for any one else, the half is more than the whole. Again, the novelist may be commonplace,
he may bend his best energies to the photographic reproduction of the actual; if he show us
a cross-section of real life we are content; but the writer of Short-stories must have originality
and ingenuity. If to compression, originality, and ingenuity he add also a touch of fantasy,
so much the better. But there are not a few successful novelists lacking not only in fantasy
and compression, but also in ingenuity and originality; they had other qualities, no doubt,
but these they had not. If an example must be given, the name of Anthony Trollope will occur
to all. Fantasy was a thing he abhorred, compression he knew not, and originality and ingenuity
can be conceded to him only by a strong stretch of the ordinary meaning of the words. Other
qualities he had in plenty, but not these. And, not having them, he was not a writer of Short-stories.
Judging from his essay on Hawthorne, one may even go so far as to say that Trollope did not
know a good Short-story when he saw it.

I have written Short-story with a capital S and a hyphen because I wished to emphasize the
distinction between the Short-story and the story which is merely short. The Short-story is
a high and difficult department of fiction. The story which is short can be written by anybody
who can write at all; and it may be good, bad, or indifferent, but at its best it is wholly
unlike the Short-story. In "An Editor's Tales" Trollope has given us excellent specimens of
the story which is short; and the stories which make up this book are amusing enough and clever
enough, but they are wanting in the individuality and in the completeness of the genuine Short-story.
Like the brief tales to be seen in the English monthly magazines and in the Sunday editions
of American newspapers into which they are copied, they are, for the most part, either merely
amplified anecdotes or else incidents which might have been used in a Novel just as well as
not. Now, the genuine Short-story abhors the idea of the Novel. It can be conceived neither
as part of a Novel nor as elaborated and expanded so as to form a Novel. A good Short-story
is no more the synopsis of a Novel than it is an episode from a Novel. A slight Novel, or a
Novel cut down, is a Novelette: it is not a Short-story. Mr. Howells's "Their Wedding Journey"
and Miss Howard's "One Summer" are Novelettes, although an American editor, who had offered
a prize for a list of the ten best Short-stories, allowed them to be included. Mr. Anstey's
"Vice Versa," Mr. Besant's "Case of Mr. Lucraft," and Mr. Hugh Conway's "Called Back" are Short-stories
in conception, although they are without the compression which the Short-story requires. In
the acute and learned essay on vers de société which Mr. Frederick Locker prefixed to his admirable
"Lyra Elegantiarum," he declared that the two characteristics of the best vers de société were
brevity and brilliancy, and that "The Rape of the Lock" would be the type and model of the
best vers de société--if it were not just a little too long. So it is with "The Case of Mr.
Lucraft," with "Vice Versa," with "Called Back:" they are just a little too long.

It is to be noted as a curious coincidence that there is no exact word in English to designate
either vers de société or the Short-story, and yet in no language are there better vers de
société or Short-stories than in English. It may be remarked also that there is a certain likeness
between vers de société and Short-stories: for one thing, both seem easy and are hard to write.
And the typical qualifications of each may apply with almost equal force to the other: vers
de société should reveal compression, ingenuity, and originality, and Short-stories should
have brevity and brilliancy. In no class of writing are neatness of construction and polish
of execution more needed than in the writing of vers de société and of Short-stories. The writer
of Short-stories must have the sense of form, which Mr. Lathrop has called "the highest and
last attribute of a creative writer." The construction must be logical, adequate, harmonious.
Here is the weak spot in Mr. Bishop's "One of the Thirty Pieces," the fundamental idea of which
has extraordinary strength perhaps not fully developed in the story. But others of Mr. Bishop's
stories--"The Battle of Bunkerloo," for instance--are admirable in all ways, conception and
execution having an even excellence. Again, Mr. Hugh Conway's "Daughter of the Stars" is a
Short-story which fails from sheer deficiency of style: here is one of the very finest Short-story
ideas ever given to mortal man, but the handling is at best barely sufficient. To do justice
to the conception would task the execution of a poet. We can merely wonder what the tale would
have been had it occurred to Hawthorne, to Poe, or to Théophile Gautier. An idea logically
developed by one possessing the sense of form and the gift of style is what we look for in
the Short-story.

But, although the sense of form and the gift of style are essential to the writing of a good
Short-story, they are secondary to the idea, to the conception, to the subject. Those who hold,
with a certain American novelist, that it is no matter what you have to say, but only how you
say it, need not attempt the Short-story; for the Short-story, far more than the Novel even,
demands a subject. The Short-story is nothing if there is no story to tell. The Novel, so Mr.
James told us not long ago, "is, in its broadest definition, a personal impression of life."
The most powerful force in French fiction to-day is M. Emile Zola, chiefly known in America
and England, I fear me greatly, by the dirt which masks and degrades the real beauty and firm
strength not seldom concealed in his novels; and M. Emile Zola declares that the novelist of
the future will not concern himself with the artistic evolution of a plot: he will take une
histoire quelconque, any kind of a story, and make it serve his purpose,--which is to give
elaborate pictures of life in all its most minute details. The acceptance of these theories
is a negation of the Short-story. Important as are form and style, the substance of the Short-story
is of more importance yet. What you have to tell is of greater interest than how you tell it.
I once heard a clever American novelist pour sarcastic praise upon another American novelist,--for
novelists, even American novelists, do not always dwell together in unity. The subject of the
eulogy is the chief of those who have come to be known as the International Novelists, and
he was praised because he had invented and made possible a fifth plot. Hitherto, declared the
eulogist, only four terminations of a novel have been known to the most enthusiastic and untiring
student of fiction. First, they are married; or, second, she marries some one else; or, thirdly,
he marries some one else; or, fourthly, and lastly, she dies. Now, continued the panegyrist,
a fifth termination has been shown to be practicable: they are not married, she does not die,
he does not die, and nothing happens at all. As a Short-story need not be a love-story, it
is of no consequence at all whether they marry or die; but a Short-story in which nothing happens
at all is an absolute impossibility.

Perhaps the difference between a Short-story and a Sketch can best be indicated by saying that,
while a Sketch may be still-life, in a Short-story something always happens. A Sketch may be
an outline of character, or even a picture of a mood of mind, but in a Short-story there must
be something done, there must be an action. Yet the distinction, like that between the Novel
and the Romance, is no longer of vital importance. In the preface to "The House of the Seven
Gables," Hawthorne sets forth the difference between the Novel and the Romance, and claims
for himself the privileges of the romancer. Mr. Henry James fails to see this difference. The
fact is, that the Short-story and the Sketch, the Novel and the Romance, melt and merge one
into the other, and no man may mete the boundaries of each, though their extremes lie far apart.
With the more complete understanding of the principle of development and evolution in literary
art, as in physical nature, we see the futility of a strict and rigid classification into precisely
defined genera and species. All that it is needful for us to remark now is that the Short-story
has limitless possibilities: it may be as realistic as the most prosaic novel, or as fantastic
as the most ethereal romance.

As a touch of fantasy, however slight, is a most welcome ingredient in a Short-story, and as
the American takes more thought of things unseen than the Englishman, we may have here an incomplete
explanation of the superiority of the American Short-story over the English. "John Bull has
suffered the idea of the Invisible to be very much fattened out of him," says Mr. Lowell: "Jonathan
is conscious still that he lives in the World of the Unseen as well as of the Seen."

There are literary evolutionists who, in their whim of seeing in every original writer a copy
of some predecessor, have declared that Hawthorne is derived from Tieck, and Poe from Hoffmann,
just as Dickens modelled himself on Smollett and Thackeray followed in the footsteps of Fielding.
In all four cases the pupil surpassed the master,--if haply Tieck and Hoffmann can be considered
as even remotely the masters of Hawthorne and Poe. When Coleridge was told that Klopstock was
the German Milton, he assented with the dry addendum, "A very German Milton." So is Hoffmann
a very German Poe, and Tieck a very German Hawthorne. Of a truth, both Poe and Hawthorne are
as American as any one can be. If the adjective American has any meaning at all, it qualifies
Poe and Hawthorne. They were American to the core. They both revealed the curious sympathy
with Oriental moods of thought which is often an American characteristic, Poe, with his cold
logic and his mathematical analysis, and Hawthorne, with his introspective conscience and his
love of the subtile and the invisible, are representative of phases of American character not
to be mistaken by any one who has given thought to the influence of nationality.

As to which of the two was the greater, discussion is idle, but that Hawthorne was the finer
genius few would deny. But the moral basis of Hawthorne's work, which had flowered in the crevices
and crannies of New-England Puritanism, Poe did not concern himself with. In Poe's hands the
story of "The Ambitious Guest" might have thrilled us with a more powerful horror, but it would
have lacked the ethical beauty which Hawthorne gave it and which makes it significant beyond
a mere feat of verbal legerdemain. And the subtile simplicity of "The Great Stone Face" is
as far from Poe as the pathetic irony of "The Ambitious Guest." In all his most daring fantasies
Hawthorne is natural, and, though he may project his vision far beyond the boundaries of fact,
nowhere does he violate the laws of nature. He had at all times a wholesome simplicity, and
he never showed any trace of the morbid taint which characterizes nearly all Poe's work. Hawthorne,
one may venture to say, had the broad sanity of genius, while we should understand any one
who might declare that Poe had mental disease raised to the n'th.

Although it may be doubted whether the fiery and tumultuous rush of a volcano, which may be
taken to typify Poe, is as powerful or as impressive in the end as the calm and inevitable
progression of a glacier, to which, for the purposes of this comparison only, we may liken
Hawthorne, yet the effect and influence of Poe's work are indisputable. One might hazard the
assertion that in all Latin countries he is the best known of American authors. Certainly no
American writer has been as widely accepted in France. Nothing better of its kind has ever
been done than "The Pit and the Pendulum," or than "The Fall of the House of Usher," which
Mr. Stoddard has compared recently with Browning's "Childe Rolande to the Dark Tower came"
for its power of suggesting intellectual desolation. Nothing better of its kind has ever been
done than "The Gold-Bug," or than "The Purloined Letter," or than "The Murders in the Rue Morgue."
This last, indeed, is a story of marvellous skill: it was the first of its kind, and to this
day it remains a model, not only unsurpassed, but unapproachable. It was the first of detective-stories,
and it has had thousands of imitations and no rival. The originality, the ingenuity, the verisimilitude
of this tale and of its fellows are beyond all praise. Poe had a faculty which one may call
imaginative ratiocination to a decree beyond all other writers of fiction. He did not at all
times keep up to the high level, in one style, of "The Fall of the House of Usher," and in
another, of "The Murders in the Hue Morgue;" and it was not to be expected that he should,
Only too often did he sink to the grade of the ordinary "Tale from 'Blackwood,'" which he himself
satirized in his usual savage vein of humor. In Poe's hands, however, the enumeration of pins
and buttons, the exact imitation of the prosaic facts of humdrum life in this workaday world,
is not an end, but a means only, whereby he constructs and intensifies the shadow of mystery
which broods over the things thus realistically portrayed.

With the recollection that it is more than half a century since Hawthorne and Poe wrote their
best Short-stories, it is not a little comic to see now and again in American newspapers a
rash assertion that "American literature has hitherto been deficient in good Short-stories,"
or the reckless declaration that "the art of writing Short-stories has not hitherto been cultivated
in the United States." Nothing could be more inexact than these statements. Almost as soon
as America began to have any literature at all it had good Short-stories. It is quite within
ten, or at the most twenty, years that the American novel has come to the front and forced
the acknowledgment of its equality with the English novel and the French novel; but for fifty
years the American Short-story has had a supremacy which any competent critic could not but
acknowledge. Indeed, the present excellence of the American novel is due in great measure to
the Short-story; for nearly every one of the American novelists whose works are now read by
the whole English-speaking race began as a writer of Short-stories. Although as a form of fiction
the Short-story is not inferior to the Novel, and although it is not easier, all things considered,
yet its brevity makes its composition simpler for the 'prentice hand. Though the Short-stories
of the beginner may not be good, yet in the writing of Short-stories he shall learn how to
tell a story, he shall discover by experience the elements of the art of fiction more readily
and, above all, more quickly than if he had begun on a long and exhausting novel. The physical
strain of writing a full-sized novel is far greater than the reader can well imagine. To this
strain the beginner in fiction may gradually accustom himself by the composition of Short stories.

Here, if the digression may be pardoned, occasion serves to say that if our writers of plays
had the same chance that our writers of novels have, we might now have a school of American
dramatists of which we should be as proud as of our school of American novelists. In dramatic
composition, the equivalent of the Short-story is the one-act play, be it drama or comedy or
comedietta or farce. As the novelists have learned their trade by the writing of Short-stories,
so the dramatists might learn their trade, far more difficult as it is and more complicated,
by the writing of one-act plays. But, while the magazines of the United States are hungry for
good Short-stories, and sift carefully all that are sent to them, in the hope of happening
on a treasure, the theatres of the United States are closed to one-act plays, and the dramatist
is denied the opportunity of making a humble and tentative beginning. The conditions of the
theatre are such that there is little hope of a change for the better in this respect,--more's
the pity. The manager has a tradition that a "broken bill," a programme containing more than
one play, is a confession of weakness, and he prefers, so far as possible, to keep his weakness
concealed.

When we read the roll of American novelists, we see that nearly all of them began as writers
of Short-stories. Some of them, Mr. Bret Harte, for instance, and Mr. Edward Everett Hale,
never got any farther, or, at least, if they wrote novels, their novels did not receive the
full artistic appreciation and popular approval bestowed on their Short-stories. Even Mr. Cable's
"Grandissimes" has not made his readers forget his "Jean-ah Poquelin," nor has Mr. Aldrich's
"Queen of Sheba," charming as she was, driven from our memory his "Margery Daw," as delightful
and as captivating as that other non-existent heroine, Mr. Austin Dobson's "Dorothy." Mrs.
Burnett put forth one volume of Short-stories and Miss Woolson two before they attempted the
more sustained flight of the full-fledged Novel. The same may be said of Miss Jewett, of Mr.
Craddock, and of Mr. Boyesen. Mr. Bishop and Mr. Lathrop and Mr. Julian Hawthorne wrote Short-stories
before they wrote novels. Mr. Henry James has never gathered into a book from the back-numbers
of magazines the half of his earlier efforts.

In these references to the American magazine I believe I have suggested the real reason of
the superiority of the American Short-stories over the English. It is not only that the eye
of patriotism may detect more fantasy, more humor, a finer feeling for art, in these younger
United States, but there is a more emphatic and material reason for the American proficiency.
There is in the United States a demand for Short-stories which does not exist in Great Britain,
or at any rate not in the same degree. The Short-story is of very great importance to the American
magazine. But in the British magazine the serial Novel is the one thing of consequence, and
all else is termed "padding." In England the writer of three-volume Novels is the best paid
of literary laborers. So in England whoever has the gift of story-telling is strongly tempted
not to essay the difficult art of writing Short-stories, for which he will receive only an
inadequate reward; and he is as strongly tempted to write a long story which may serve first
as a serial and afterward as a three-volume Novel. The result of this temptation is seen in
the fact that there is not a single English novelist whose reputation has been materially assisted
by the Short-stories he has written. More than once in the United States a single Short-story
has made a man known, but in Great Britain such an event is wellnigh impossible. The disastrous
effect on narrative art of the desire to distend every subject to the three-volume limit has
been dwelt on unceasingly by English critics.

The three-volume system is peculiar to Great Britain: it does not obtain either in France or
the United States. As a consequence, the French and American writer of fiction is left free
to treat his subject at the length it demands,--no more and no less. It is pleasant to note
that there are signs of the beginning of the break-up of the system even in England; and the
protests of the chief English critics against it are loud and frequent. It is responsible in
great measure for the invention and perfection of the British machine for making English Novels,
of which Mr. Warner told us in his entertaining essay on fiction. We all know the work of this
machine, and we all recognize the trade-mark it imprints in the corner. But Mr. Warner failed
to tell us, what nevertheless is a fact, that this British machine can be geared down so as
to turn out the English short story. Now, the English short story, as the machine makes it
and as we see it in most English magazines, is only a little English Novel, or an incident
or episode from an English Novel. It is thus the exact artistic opposite of the American Short-story,
of which, as we have seen, the chief characteristics are originality, ingenuity, compression,
and, not infrequently, a touch of fantasy. It is not, of course, that the good and genuine
Short-story is not written in England now and then,--for if I were to make any such assertion
some of the best work of Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson, of Mr. Walter Besant, and of Mr. Anstey
would rise up to contradict me: it is merely that it is an accidental growth, and not a staple
of production. As a rule, in England the artist in fiction does not care to hide his light
under a bushel, and he puts his best work where it will be seen of all men,--that is to say,
not in a Short-story. So it happens that the most of the brief tales in the English magazines
are not true Short-stories at all, and that they belong to a lower form of the art of fiction,
in the department with the amplified anecdote. It is the three-volume Novel which has killed
the Short-story in England.

Certain of the remarks in the present paper the writer put forth first anonymously some months
ago in the columns of an English weekly review. To his intense surprise, they were controverted
in a leading American weekly review. The critic began by assuming that the writer had said
that Americans preferred Short-stories to Novels. What had really been said was that there
was a steady demand for Short-stories in American magazines, whereas in England the demand
was rather for serial Novels. "In the first place," said the critic, "Americans do not prefer
Short-stories, as is shown by the enormous number of British Novels circulated among us; and
in the second place, tales of the quiet, domestic kind, which form the staple of periodicals
like 'All the Year Round' and 'Chambers's Journal,' have here thousands of readers where native
productions, however clever and original, have only hundreds, since the former are reprinted
by the country papers and in the Sunday editions of city papers as rapidly and as regularly
as they are produced at home." Now, the answer to this is simply that these English Novels
and English stories are reprinted widely in the United States, not because the American people
prefer them to anything else, but because, owing to the absence of international copyright,
they cost nothing. That the American people prefer to read American stories when they can get
them is shown by the enormous circulation of the periodicals which make a specialty of American
fiction.

I find I have left myself little space to speak of the Short-story as it exists in other literatures
than those of Great Britain and the United States, The conditions which have killed the Short-story
in England do not obtain elsewhere; and elsewhere there are not a few good writers of Short-stories.
Tourgéneff, Björnsen, Sacher-Masoch, Freytag, Lindau, are the names which one recalls at once
and without effort as masters in the art and mystery of the Short-story. Tourgéneff's Short-stories,
in particular, it would be difficult to commend too warmly. But it is in France that the Short-story
flourishes most abundantly. In France the conditions are not unlike those in the United States;
and, although there are few French magazines, there are many Parisian newspapers of a wide
hospitality to literature. The demand for the Short-story has called forth an abundant supply.
Among the writers of the last generation who excelled in the conte--which is almost the exact
French equivalent for Short-story, as nouvelle may be taken to indicate the story which is
merely short, the episode, the incident, the amplified anecdote--were Alfred de Musset, Théophile
Gautier, and Prosper Mérimée. The best work of Mérimée has never been surpassed. As compression
was with him almost a mania, as, indeed, it was with his friend Tourgéneff, he seemed born
on purpose to write Short-stories. Tourgéneff carried his desire for conciseness so far that
he seems always to be experimenting to see how much of his story he may leave out. One of the
foremost among the living writers of contes is M. Edmond About, whose exquisite humor is known
to all readers of "The Man with the Broken Ear,"--a Short-story in conception, though unduly
extended in execution. Few of the charming contes of M. Alphonse Daudet, or of the earlier
Short-stories of M. Emile Zola, have been translated into English; and the poetic tales of
M. François Coppée are likewise neglected in this country. "The Abbé Constantin" of M. Ludovic
Halévy has been read by many, but the Gallic satire of his more Parisian Short-stories has
been neglected, perhaps wisely, in spite of their broad humor and their sharp wit. In the contes
of M. Guy de Maupassant there is a manly vigor, pushed at times to excess; and in the very
singular collection of stories which M. Jean Richepin has called the "Morts Bizarres" we find
a modern continuation of the Poe tradition, always more potent in France than elsewhere. I
have given this list of French writers of Short-stories merely as evidence that the art flourishes
in France as well as in the United States, and not at all with the view of recommending the
fair readers of this essaylet to send at once for the works of these French writers, which
are not always--indeed, one may say not often--in exact accordance with the conventionalities
of Anglo-Saxon propriety. The Short-story should not be void or without form, but its form
may be whatever the author please. He has an absolute liberty of choice. It may be a personal
narrative, like Poe's "Descent into the Maelstrom" or Hale's "My Double, and How he Undid me;"
it may be impersonal, like Mr. F.B. Perkins's "Devil-Puzzlers" or Colonel De Forest's "Brigade
Commander;" it may be a conundrum, like Mr. Stockton's insoluble query, "The Lady or the Tiger?"
it may be "A Bundle of Letters," like Mr. James's story, or "A Letter and a Paragraph," like
Mr. Bunner's; it may be a medley of letters and telegrams and narrative, like Mr. Aldrich's
"Margery Daw;" it may be cast in any one of these forms, or in a combination of all of them,
or in a wholly new form, if haply such may yet be found by diligent search. Whatever its form,
it should have symmetry of design. If it have also wit or humor, pathos or poetry, and especially
a distinct and unmistakable flavor of originality, so much the better. But the chief requisites
are compression, originality, ingenuity, and now and again a touch of fantasy. Sometimes we
may detect in a writer of Short-stories a tendency toward the over-elaboration of ingenuity,
toward the exhibition of ingenuity for its own sake, as in a Chinese puzzle. But mere cleverness
is incompatible with greatness, and to commend a writer as "very clever" is not to give him
high praise. From this fault of super-subtilty women are free for the most part. They are more
likely than men to rely on broad human emotion, and their tendency in error is toward the morbid
analysis of a high-strung moral situation.

BRANDER MATTHEWS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL GRANT AT FRANKFORT.

The extraordinary honors paid to General Grant in England created a profound impression all
over Europe. No other American, and, indeed, few Europeans, had ever received such honors abroad;
and what made the case still more impressive and exceptional was the fact that this great distinction
was paid to no potentate or prince of the blood, but to a simple private citizen, holding no
rank or official position.

As soon as it was known that General Grant intended to travel on the Continent, he was invited
to visit Frankfort-on-the-Main. The invitation was extended by the American residents of that
city, and was accepted. A joint meeting of Americans and Frankfort burghers was then held,
and a committee was appointed, half Germans and half Americans, to make arrangements for the
proposed reception and entertainment of General Grant and his party. Mr. Henry Seligman, an
American banker of Frankfort, and the writer of this, were appointed by this committee to intercept
the distinguished tourist on his journey up the Rhine and conduct him to the city.

It was on a charming summer morning that we quitted Frankfort on this mission. General Grant
was at Bingen, where he had arrived the evening before from Cologne. He was accompanied by
Mrs. Grant, his son Jesse Grant, and General Adam Badeau, then Consul-General at London. Their
arrival at Bingen had been so unostentatious that their presence in the town was scarcely known
outside of the hotel in which they had taken rooms. Their departure was alike unnoticed.

Our train drew up at Bingen just as a special Schnellzug with the Emperor of Germany on board
swept by. Proceeding at once to the hotel, we learned that General Grant had already left for
Rüdesheim, but had possibly not yet crossed the river. We hastened to the landing, and there
found him and his party seated under some linden-trees, waiting for the ferry. I had a package
of letters for the general which had come to my care, and which, after mutual introductions,
I delivered to him at once. Tearing open and throwing away the envelopes, General Grant hastily
inspected the letters and passed them to General Badeau. By this time the Rüdesheim steamer
had arrived, and we all went on board. In a moment more the boat pushed off and turned its
course up the stately river. The rippling waters sparkled in the sunshine, and all the vine-clad
hills were dressed in summer beauty. On the right, dropping behind us, was Bingen, famous in
legend and in song, and on the left, in the foreground, appeared the curious spires and roofs
of Rüdesheim.

From Rüdesheim to Wiesbaden the railway follows the Rhine as far as Castel, at the mouth of
the Main, opposite Mayence. A short distance above Rüdesheim the Taunus bluffs sweep back from
the river, and the garden of the Rhine valley opens out right and left. This is the heart of
the wine-growing region, and within it lie many of the most celebrated vineyards in the world.
The valley is dotted with villages whose names are famous in the Rhine-wine nomenclature, and
upon a bold promontory, commanding all, the queen of the German vintage rules from the Johannisberg
Schloss.

While our train bowled along, and we were discussing these various objects of interest, General
Badeau discovered by accident among the letters which General Grant had given him one which
had not been opened.

"The address is in the handwriting of General Sherman," said Badeau.

"Yes," said General Grant, glancing at the superscription, "that is from Sherman. Read it."

Accordingly, General Badeau read the letter aloud, and the whole company was deeply impressed
with the cordiality of its friendly expressions. In heartiest terms the letter felicitated
General Grant upon the splendid receptions which had been given him, and the merited appreciation
awarded him in the Old World. The letter was that of an admiring and devoted friend rather
than that of a military colleague.

"General Sherman seems to have a strong personal regard for you, general," remarked one of
the party.

"Yes," responded General Grant, "there has always been the best of feeling between Sherman
and myself, although attempts have not been wanting to make it appear otherwise."

"I have noticed such attempts," replied the person addressed, "but for my part I have never
needed any proof that they were wholly uncalled-for and impertinent.

"Possibly you have never heard, general," continued the speaker, "how heartily General Sherman
rejoiced over your conquest and capture of Lee's army. He was particularly gratified that he
had not been obliged to make any movement that would have given a pretext for saying that your
success was due in part to him. To those about him he exclaimed, in his energetic way,--

"'I knew Grant would do it, for I knew the man. And I'm glad that he accomplished it without
my help. Nobody can say now that I have divided with him the credit of this success. He has
deserved it all, he has gained it all, and I'm glad that he will have it all.'"

About noon the party arrived at Wiesbaden, where nobody seemed to expect them except the people
at the hotel where General Grant's courier had engaged rooms. After dinner Mr. Seligman desired
to tender a drive to the general and Mrs. Grant, but they had disappeared. After a short search,
they were found sitting together alone in one of the arboreal retreats of the Kurgarten. The
general remarked that it was his custom when he visited a city to explore it on foot, and that
in this way he had already made himself tolerably familiar, he thought, with the general plan
and situation of Wiesbaden. Mr. Seligman's invitation was readily accepted, however, and half
an hour later the party set out, in a carriage, for the Russian Chapel.

Wiesbaden is one of the most ancient watering-places on the Continent. It was a Roman military
station, and upon the Heidenberg--a neighboring eminence--are seen the traces of a Roman fortress.
The remains of Roman baths and a temple have also been found there, and its waters are mentioned
by Pliny. At a later period the Carlovingian monarchs established at Wiesbaden an imperial
residence. The city lies under the southern slope of the Taunus Mountains, the rocky recesses
of which conceal the mysteries of its thermal springs. The hilly country for miles around abounds
in charming pleasure-grounds, drives, and promenades. The gilded palaces which were formerly
used as fashionable gambling-houses are now devoted to the social and musical recreation of
visitors who come to take the waters.

The drive to the Russian Chapel ascends the Taunus Mountain by a winding road, amidst stately,
well-kept forests of beech and chestnut. The chapel, whose gilded domes can be seen from afar,
stands upon one of the most salient mountain-spurs, and overlooks the country as far as Mayence
and the Odenwald. It was erected by the Duke of Nassau as a memorial to his deceased first
wife, who was a beautiful young Russian princess. Upon her tomb, which adorns the interior,
her life-size effigy reclines, in pure white marble.

General Grant lingered for some time at this place, and from the promontory on which the chapel
stands gazed with deep interest over the far-reaching historic scenes of the Rhine valley.

Next morning the general and his party arrived at Frankfort, where they were met by the reception-committee.
Accompanied by this committee, the party visited the ancient Römer, within whose venerable
walls for many centuries the German emperors were chosen; then the quaint and venerated mansion
in which Goethe was born; then the old cathedral, wherein a score or more of German potentates
were crowned; and then, in succession, the poet Boerne's birthplace, the Judengasse, the original
home of the Rothschilds, the Ariadneum (named from Dännecker's marble group of Ariadne and
the lioness), the Art Museum, the Goethe and Schiller monuments, and the beautiful sylvan resort
for popular recreation, known as "The Wald." General Grant visited also, by invitation, some
of the great wine-cellars of Frankfort, and was conducted through the immense crypts of Henninger's
brewery, which is one of the largest establishments of the kind on the Continent. As he was
about to leave Henninger's, he was requested to write his name in the visitors' register. The
record was divided into spaces entitled, respectively, "name," "residence," and "occupation."
General Grant promptly put down his name and place of residence, but when he came to the "occupation"
column he hesitated. "What shall I write here?" he inquired: "loafer?"

This remark was made in jest, and yet not without a certain sadness of tone and manner. Undoubtedly,
General Grant felt keenly the irksomeness of having nothing particular to do. After the immense
strain which had been put upon him for twelve successive years, it was not easy for him to
reconcile himself, in the prime of his manhood and the full maturity of his powers, to being
a mere spectator of the affairs of men. Activity had become a second nature to him, and idleness
was simply intolerable. With much leisure on his hands, he first sought rest and recreation,
and then occupation. However unfortunately his business undertakings resulted, they were, after
all, but the outcome of a natural and laudable desire to be usefully employed.

The banquet given to General Grant by the citizens and resident Americans of Frankfort was
a superb affair. It took place in the Palmengarten, which is, above any other object, the pride
of the charming old "City of the Main." When the Duke of Nassau, an active sympathizer with
the beaten party in the Austro-Prussian war, lost his dominions and quitted his château at
Biebrich, the Frankforters availed themselves of the opportunity to buy the famous collection
of plants in his winter-garden, comprising about thirty thousand rare and costly specimens.
The joint-stock company by which this purchase was made received from the city a donation of
twenty acres of land, and added thereto, from its own funds, ten acres more.

The company also obtained, partly by donation, five large palm-trees, and from these the Palmengarten
takes its name. For the conservation of the botanical collection a mammoth structure was erected
of glass and iron, and for the entertainment of visitors a commodious and elegant music- and
dining-hall was added. The grounds were adorned with fountains, lakes, parterres, and promenades,
and were equipped with every facility for family and popular recreation, not overlooking, by
any means, the amusement of the children. In all Europe there is not a lovelier spot than this.
To keep it in order, educated gardeners are employed, regularly salaried; and in the arrangement
of the plants such combinations of color and form are produced as an artist might envy. Twice
daily a concert is given by a large, well-trained orchestra in the music-hall, or, when the
weather is propitious, in a pavilion in the garden. The concert-hall looks through a glass
partition directly into the great conservatory, which, thus viewed, presents a scene of tropical
enchantment. The palm-trees occupy conspicuous positions amidst skilfully-grouped dracænas,
ferns, azaleas, rhododendrons, passifloras, and a myriad of other curious vegetable productions
of the equatorial world. The ground is carpeted with light-green moss, smooth and soft as velvet,
and, as an appropriate centre-piece to the whole, is seen the silvery flash of a falling cataract.

The banquet was held in the music-hall, where General Grant was given a seat immediately fronting
the scene just described. The conservatory and hall were brilliantly illuminated, the tables
were resplendent with silver and floral decorations, and upon the walls of the banquet-chamber
the emblems of the great Republic and the great Empire were suggestively displayed side by
side. Ladies were admitted to the galleries, but gentlemen only were seated at the tables,
and among the guests were many of the most prominent bankers and merchants of Germany, including
capitalists who had been the first in Europe to invest in the war-loans offered by our government.

The dinner lasted three hours. Between the courses various toasts were drunk, a venerable burgher
of Frankfort proposing the health of General Grant, to which the general responded in a brief,
sensible, and somewhat humorous speech, which was exceedingly well received. Nothing could
have been more appropriate, modest, and fitting.

Outside the building the scene was scarcely less animated or interesting than within. By the
aid of colored lights and other pyrotechnic contrivances the garden was made brilliant and
gay as an Arabian Nights dream. The air was perfumed with the aroma of flowers and moistened
by the delirious play of fountains. Thousands of people, elegantly dressed, were seated on
the out-door terraces, enjoying the fireworks and music, and in the promenades other thousands
were moving, producing a kaleidoscopic combination of motion and color. For some time after
the banquet General Grant sat upon the veranda of the music-hall, conversing with friends and
observing this novel scene. His presence excited no rude curiosity or boisterous enthusiasm,
but was none the less honored by more subdued and decorous demonstrations of respect.

The next day General Grant drove to Homburg, fifteen miles, and thence four miles farther to
Saalburg, the site of an ancient Roman fortification on the Taunus Mountains. It was one of
a series of defensive stations covering the frontier of the Roman empire and extending from
the Rhine to the Danube. The exhumations at this fortified camp, first attempted within a recent
period, have disclosed the most completely preserved Roman castramentation yet found in Germany.
The castellum is a rectangle, four hundred and sixty-five by seven hundred and four feet, and
is surrounded by two deep ditches and by high parapets. Within this enclosure the prætorium,
or residence of the commandant, one hundred and thirty-two by one hundred and fifty-three feet,
has been distinctly traced by its stone foundations. Stones marked with Roman characters yet
remain in their places, designating the camps of the different legions. This fort is mentioned
by Tacitus, and was one of the principal bulwarks of the Roman conquest in Germany against
the tribes which hovered along its northern frontier.

The excavations were still in progress at the time of General Grant's visit, and on that very
occasion some interesting relics were unearthed. Mrs. Grant was presented with a ring and some
pieces of ancient pottery which were removed in her presence from the places where they had
lain embedded in the earth for the last eighteen hundred years.

Near the fort was discovered, a few years ago, the cemetery where the ashes of the deceased
Romans of the garrison were interred. Some of the graves which had never before been disturbed
were opened in General Grant's presence, in order that he might see with his own eyes what
they contained and in what manner their contents were deposited. From each grave a small urn
was taken, containing the ashes of one cremated human body, and upon the mouth of the urn was
found, in each instance, a Roman obolus, which had been deposited there to pay the ferriage
of the soul of the departed over the Stygian river. General Grant was presented with some of
these coins as mementos of his visit.

Upon his return to Homburg the ensuing evening, the general was banqueted by a party of Americans,
and a splendid illumination of the Kurgarten was given in his honor. The next day he returned
to Frankfort, and the next departed by rail for Heidelberg and Switzerland.

ALFRED E. LEE.

       *       *       *       *       *

TURTLING ON THE OUTER REEF.

"What's that astern, Sandy?" The old darky, who had been gently soothed into slumber by the
friction of the main sheet that served as a pillow, raised his grizzly head, gave one look
in the direction indicated, and sprang to his feet, shouting wildly, "On deck der! man yo'
wedder fo' an' main, lee clew garnets an' buntlines, topsail halyards an' down-hauls, jib down-haul,
let go an' haul!" his voice fairly rising in a shriek that, with the rattling of the jib as
it came down, might have been heard a mile away.

The occasion of all this turmoil was a pillar of inky blackness, which, when observed by the
writer, who had the tiller, seemed fifty feet high and about ten feet wide. Now it was a hundred
feet wide, and growing with ominous speed. The easy quarter breeze that had been fanning us
along mysteriously crept away, as if awed by the strange apparition. The laughing gulls that
had hovered above the water rose high in air, uttering piercing cries while standing out in
vivid silvery brightness against the wall of night. The sea assumed a bright metallic tint
and rose and fell in uneasy measure, while the booming of the breakers on the distant reef,
and the swash of the waves as our craft rolled to and fro, were painfully distinct.

"Cotch suthin'!" shouted Sandy, taking a round turn about the tiller with the slack end of
the dingy's painter. Delicate furrows for a moment cut their way here and there over the glassy
surface, and then with a roar the black squall was upon us, keeling our craft almost upon her
beam-ends. The water seemed torn from its bed, flung by some unseen power high into the air,
and borne hissing and roaring away. It cut and lashed our faces as we crouched flat upon the
deck, clinging where we could. The sea rose as if by magic, and, with the wind astern, was
driving us upon the reef which we had been encircling in search of a harbor. After ten minutes
of the wild race with the squall, which now was as quickly lighting up, we heard the roar of
the breakers near at hand.

"Put her up in de win', or we'se gone, sho'!" shrieked young Rastus, who had crawled aft.

"Gone where?" cried Sandy, his grim visage, dripping with water, now visible braced against
the tiller.

Rastus's white eyeballs, standing out in terror, rolled ominously up and then down in answer,
leaving a doubt to be inferred.

"How old is yo', son?" asked the old man fiercely, bracing hard as the craft yawed heavily.

"I ain't gwine to git any older, dat's sho'," replied the boy.

"W'y, yo' poor coon," retorted Sandy. "ef yu'se ole as Jehos'phat, I'se wu'ked disher reef
fo' yu'se bo'n."

So quickly had the squall passed that its power was now well over, and the lighting up showed
us to be only a few hundred yards from the mass of breakers pounding upon the outer reef.

"Yo' 'spec' to jump dat reef?" asked Rastus, fairly shaking with fear.

"Start dat jib," thundered the old man. "Give her de bonnet an' de ma'nsail up to dat fastest
patch."

The boys jumped to the halyards, and the boat sprang forward with renewed speed, careening
over until she was half under, and slightly hauling on the wind.

"Ef I kin keep her offen de reef twill hit lightens up, we'se all right," whispered Sandy;
and suddenly, looking after the retreating cloud, out of which in the gloom now appeared the
tops of the mangrove-trees, he shouted exultantly, "Give her de jib," and, with a lunge at
the tiller, the vessel fell away and dashed onward at the wall of rock and foam.

"For de Lawd's sake, yo' ain't gwine to jump dat reef, is yo'?" cried Rastus, in an agony of
terror.

But it was too late to question the old man's intentions: we were already in the back swash
of the breakers. "Cotch suthin!" he shouted again, as our craft on the crest of a mighty roller
shot onward to seeming destruction.

On either side the bare coral rock was visible, as the waves gathered for another onward rush;
yet we did not strike. A second roller raised us high in air, and, hurled forward with the
speed of the wind, we were buried in the seething foam; but the next moment our craft shook
off the sea, and we glided away on the smooth waters of the inner reef. A few minutes later
the sun was out again, and one of the strangest phases of life on the reef had come and gone.

"I 'spec' dat was a narrer 'scape," said old Sandy, "but I tuk de only chance. We was boun'
to strike somewhere, an' de squall jes' got off in time for me to take bearin's of disher five-foot
channel; an', it's a fac', I'se been fru a heap o' times, but dat was de wustest, sho' 'nuff."

From Sandy's orders given at the approach of the squall, the reader might possibly infer that
the sable mariner was commander of a ninety-gun frigate, while in point of fact he was only
skipper of a very disreputable fishing-smack. But he had been nearly all his life a "boy" on
a government vessel, and now, having retired, from either habit or fancy he still kept up the
man-of-war discipline, and when under more than ordinary excitement roared out a flood of orders
that savored of both navy and merchant marine, uttering them with all the enjoyment of a ranking
officer on his own quarter-deck. They were, however, well understood by Sandy's sons, who constituted
the port and starboard watches of the smack, and who were in constant awe of the old man-of-war's-man,
who did not hesitate to enforce his orders with any missile that came handy.

"Dis ship's on a war-footin', dat's sho'," he said, after one of these characteristic scenes,
and then, in a stage whisper, "so's de crew. Dey's bofe cou'tin' de same gal in Key Wes'."

The Bull Pup, for such was her name, kept up her war-footing as long as we knew her, and the
dignity invested in her hulk, which had a strong predisposition toward bilge, was, to say the
least, extraordinary. Never was better craft for the purpose; and during a long cruise among
the small keys that form the extreme end of the Florida peninsula, she always showed a dogged
determination, as indicated by her name, to surmount all difficulties.

We had sailed down during the night from Marquesas across the Rebecca shoals, and when caught
by the squall were off Bush Key, one of the most easterly of the group, which enjoys the distinction
of possessing Dry Tortugas,--why "dry" we know not. Our extraordinary entrance, almost instantaneous,
from rough to comparatively smooth water can only be explained by a casual reference to the
great reef. The group of keys--Loggerhead, Bird, Long, Middle, East, North, Bush, Sand, and
Garden--are all within seven miles of each other, Garden, Bird, Bush, and Long being in close
proximity,--within swimming-distance, if the swimmer be not nervous in regard to sharks. From
these central keys a great sandy shoal spreads away on all sides, cut up, however, by several
deep channels admitting vessels of the largest draught. To the east and south the reef is two
miles wide and rarely over four feet deep, covered at intervals with great fields of branch
corals, while here and there clusters of enormous heads of astrea, porites, etc., have collected.
The edge of the reef is formed of dead coral rock, often beaten up by the waves into a continuous
wall several miles in extent, and a few steps beyond this the water deepens quickly, until
at the length of a vessel from it no bottom is visible.

The one opening in this barrier on the side of our approach, so formidable in a gale, is the
passage through which the skill of Sandy had safely brought us, being, as its name explains,
five feet deep and not many more in width, and used only at odd times by the few pilots and
fishermen of the reef who know the secret of its approach. But how old Sandy found it when
completely covered by the waves, with only the tops of certain trees to steer by, is one of
the mysteries.

Our object in visiting this desolate part of the country was to capture turtles. Here is the
ground of the green and loggerhead turtles, and, according to Sandy, the hawksbill, from which
the shell of commerce is taken, is also occasionally found.

The squall was now a fast-disappearing pillar in the west. The anchor-chain ran merrily out,
and we rounded to in the narrow harbor of Garden Key. The boys manned the pump, while Sandy
and the writer pulled for the shore, and the dingy soon crunched into the white, sandy beach
of the coral island which during the war was the Botany Bay of America. Surely Dry Tortugas
has been maligned: instead of dry we find it very wet, a key of sand thirteen acres in extent,
hardly one foot above the tide, and entirely occupied by probably the largest brick fort in
the world.

Fort Jefferson was commenced long before the war, and is now a monument of the ineffectual
military methods of thirty years ago. The work is a six-sided, two-tiered fort of majestic
proportions, its faces pierced with over five hundred guns. How many millions of dollars have
been expended in its erection it would be difficult to conjecture. The question why so important
a work was built here is often asked, and we have heard the answer given that it was encouraged
by the Key West slave-owners, through their representatives, to give employment to their slaves,
who were engaged as laborers by the government. Garden Key, however, is the key of the gulf,
and, as a prospective coaling-station in case of war, it was undoubtedly a spot to be held
at all odds, and at the outbreak of the war it formed a convenient spot for the confinement
of certain prisoners, as many as three thousand being kept there at one time. Now the great
fort figures as a picture of desolation and is slowly falling to decay, deserted save by the
memories of the great conflict, a lighthouse-keeper, and a guard.

Once within the great enclosure, the reason for its having been called Garden Key becomes apparent.
The neighboring islands are covered with prickly pear, mangroves, and bay-cedars, while here
clumps of cocoanuts rear their graceful forms, their long rustling leaves, which convey to
the distant listener the cooling impression of falling rain, reaching high over the top of
the fort. On the west side grows a small grove of bananas, while against the cottage walls
luxuriant vines climb in wild confusion. What was once the parade-ground is covered by a thick
growth of wiry grass, in which gopher- and crab-holes lay traps for the unwary. In fact, far
from being the forbidding spot it has been painted, Dry Tortugas seemed to us a veritable garden
in the path of the great Gulf Stream.

On the afternoon of our arrival the Bull Pup was got under way and headed through a circuitous
channel to East Key, off which we came to anchor about dusk. Blankets and other articles indispensable
for a night on the beach were carried ashore, and camp formed on the edge of the bay-cedars.
East Key comprises about thirty acres of sand, thickly covered with a low growth of bay-cedar,
in which the rude nests of the noddy are found, while here and there in the undergrowth are
great patches of cactus or prickly pear, affording lurking-places for innumerable purple-backed
crabs of ferocious mien.

"Turklin'," said old Sandy, as we lay stretched on the sand, waiting for the moon, "is right
in de line o' hard wu'k, an' I 'spec's yo' chillun is a-hankerin' after yo' mudder."

The two children, both hard on thirty, indignantly denied that they had anything but an extreme
fondness for labor.

"Wu'k!" said old Sandy, appealing to us and reaching for a piece of driftwood to fling at his
progeny in case of necessity; "w'y, de coons of disher generation don' know de meanin' of de
word, da's a fac'. How is it dat yo' don' see no mo' bandy chillun roun' now? Kase dey mammies
don' hev to wu'k. Dey ain't got no call to put de chilluns down. W'y, chile, I pick cotton
'fore I leave de bre's', da's a fac'. De niggers is gittin' too sumpchus fo' dar place. Dey
try to make outen dey got sense like white folks. Yo' Rastus, yo'se deacon in de Key Wes' Fustest
Bethel, ain't yo'?"

"'Deed I is," replied that person.

"An' Piffney too, I reckon," continued Sandy.

"Yas, sah," answered Piffney.

"Wal," said the old man, turning to us again, "dere it is. Chuck full o' 'ligion, but w'en
dey git in de tight hole like de five-foot dey ain't got no faith. Old-time l'arnin' say 'tain't
no use buckin' 'genst de debble less yo' full o' faith. All de old-time coons knows dey's coons,
but dese yere free-born darkies got to be white or nuthin'. Yander," nodding his head toward
Key West, "a couple of dese yere black Conchs drap in on me an' de ole woman, an' say, 'Uncle
Sandy, we'se 'lected yo' hon'ry member of de Anex Debatin' Soci'ty of de Young Men's Chrisshun
'Sociashun of de Fustest Bethel.' I reached fo' a chunk of scantlin', and de ole woman stood
by fo' to turn loose de coon, w'en dey hollered out dey wasn't no 'spenses, no fees, no nuthin',
only ten bits fo' hevin' yo' name 'graved in de soci'ty's books. So I 'lowed I'd jine; an'
d'rectly dey sent me an inwite fo' de fustest meetin', an', fo' de Lawd, mar's, w'at yo' s'pose
hit was? Hit read kinder like disher," he continued, with a groan: "'Reswolved, which is de
butt end of a goat? Fo' de affermation (de on side), Rastus Pinckey; fo' de neggertive (de
off side), Piffney Pinckey.' Yas, sah, I done pay ten bits fo' to hear my chillun 'scuss w'at's
done been settled in disher fam'ly 'fore dey's bo'n and sence! All comes o' apin' white folks,"
said the old man, threatening the debaters with the scantling. "Dey's boun' to git up a 'batin'-soci'ty
an' talk all de evening w'en dere was Paublo Johnson standin' up all de evenin' from stiffness
he cotched from ole man Geiger's goat, an', hit's a fac', he stan' an' 'scuss de question,
tryin' to make outen how de goat kicked him, all kase he's on de on side. But dat's de coon of it."

"Whish!" whispered Rastus, who, with Piffney, had been trying to look supernaturally solemn
during this tirade.

"Shoo!" repeated Sandy, leaning forward.

The moon had just cleared the mangrove-tops, and illuminated the silvery sands, casting reflections
upon the water, where there was now a perfect calm. Far away was heard the lonely cry of a
laughing gull. The gentle break of the waves upon the sands gave out a soft, musical sound,
and, as we held our breath, a sharp hiss was heard, seemingly but a few feet away.

"Turkle," hoarsely whispered Sandy; on which announcement we all flattened upon the sand. So
bright was the moon that every object was distinctly visible for several hundred feet. A moment
later the strange hiss was repeated, and then a small, black object was seen glistening in
the moonlight a few feet from shore. Again came the penetrating hiss, and the animal moved
several feet farther in, as if cautiously looking around. The moonbeams scintillated for a
moment on its shell, as it hesitated on the edge, and then the turtle commenced a clumsy scramble
up the beach, lifting itself along in a laborious manner. In ten minutes it had reached the
loose sand above tide-water, and kept its course toward us until within thirty feet, when it
began to excavate its nest. The operation seemed to be performed mostly with the hind feet,
and was accomplished in a remarkably short time, considering the implements used.

All the party were breathing hard, and, as Sandy afterward remarked, "The only reason de turkle
didn't go was it t'ought we'se porpuses."

The turtle was allowed to deposit its eggs, and when that operation was supposed to be about
over a concerted rush was made. As we rose from the sand, the animal whirled clumsily around
and made for the sea. It was an enormous loggerhead, and, with its huge head and powerful flippers,
presented a decidedly aggressive appearance. The two boys were first on the field, and, without
waiting for the scantling which old Sandy had grasped, seized the creature on the side, between
the flippers, and lifted it. But they had barely raised it from the sand when the great fore
flipper, being clear, struck the unfortunate Piffney a sounding blow, knocking him against
Rastus, who lost his hold, and both went down in confusion. The turtle scrambled ahead, throwing
sand like a whirlwind. She seemed to have the faculty of lifting nearly a quart and hurling
it with unerring force, and old Sandy's mouth was soon filled with it. Three of us again seized
the animal and lifted, while the old darky inserted the scantling as a lever.

"Now, den, clap on yere!" he cried, dodging the sand and flippers.

We lifted, and the monster was fairly on its side, when an ominous creak was heard; the plank
broke, and before a new hold could be taken the turtle was but ten feet from the water. Active
measures were evidently necessary, and Sandy, taking the board, ran in front of the animal
and struck wildly at its head, yelling to us to lift. But the sand was soft, and every lift
was attended by a terrific beating to the man who stood near the fore flipper. In vain we struck,
lifted, and hauled: the turtle was gaining slowly. Finally, in his war-dance about the animal's
head, Sandy stumbled, grasped wildly in the air, and went down backward into the water with
a sounding crash, the turtle fairly crawling over his legs, and, despite the boys, who hung
on to its hind flippers, it slid into the water and disappeared behind a miniature tidal wave,
leaving the Pinckey family--father and sons--in a state of complete demoralization.

"I 'low dat turkle's bo'n free," gasped Sandy, picking himself up and shaking the water from
his clothes.

"He ain't gwine to give up dat calapee yet, da's a fac'."

The boys having repaired damages and unloaded the sand received during the mêlée, and the moon
being now well up, the tramp around the key was commenced. The approved method is to walk along
as near the water as possible, and on finding a recent track to follow it up on the run, and
thus head off the turtle. For a mile or more we strolled along the sands, the boys humming
in low tones some old plantation melody, and Sandy occasionally venting his wrath at some real
or imaginary fault in the young and rising generation. In the midst of one of these tirades,
the boys, who had kept ahead, suddenly darted up toward the bushes. We were soon after them,
following up a broad track distinctly marked on the white, sandy beach, and came upon a fine
green turtle, which immediately started for the water, making rapid headway. The honor of turning
her was reserved for the writer, who, grasping the shell beneath the flippers, essayed the
task. Her struggles, the flying flippers, and the giving sand verified Sandy's statement that
"turklin' was wu'k," and, after several ineffectual attempts, we were forced to cry for help.
The animal was soon upon her back, and proved to be one of the largest size. "Old an' tuff,"
said Sandy; "but," he added, "hit'll be all the same up No'th."

The boys now proceeeded to cut slits in the flippers and lash them together with rope-yarn,
the animal being thus placed hors de combat. The march was again taken up, and soon another
track was found, but the eggs had been laid and the game was gone. An attempt to find this
nest showed the cunning displayed by these clumsy creatures. Naturally, the nest would be looked
for at the end of the incoming track, but at this spot the writer searched fruitlessly, while
Sandy looked on in grim satisfaction at his own superior knowledge. Finally he pointed out
the nest forty feet away, and the boys soon produced the soft, crispy eggs as proof of his wisdom.

"Ole turtle jes' as cunnin' as coon," said Sandy, as he nipped one of the eggs and transferred
its contents to his capacious mouth. And, indeed, so it seemed. Instead of laying directly
on reaching the soft sand, the turtle had crawled down the beach and made several holes, finally
forming her real nest, smoothing it over so that it could never be distinguished from the rest,
and again crawling down the beach before turning toward the water: thus the nest may be looked
for anywhere between the up and down tracks.

Having piled the eggs in a convenient place for transportation in the morning, the march was
renewed, and before dawn four turtles were turned, with little or no discomfort, all being
green and much lighter than the cumbersome loggerhead that first escaped us.

In the morning the turtles were one by one placed in the dingy and taken aboard the smack,
when we set sail for Garden Key, arriving in the snug harbor a few hours later. It is a curious
fact that the long strip of sand to the westward, called Loggerhead Key, is mostly frequented
by the turtle of that name, the green turtle rarely going ashore there, preferring East, Sand,
and Middle Keys.

The eggs of the turtle are perfectly oval, with the exception of one or two depressions that
may occur at any part. They are hatched probably not by the direct heat of the sun, but by
the general temperature of the sand. The instinct of the young is remarkable. We have placed
young loggerheads barely a day old in a closed room facing away from the water, and they invariably
turned in that direction. During their young life they fall a prey to many predaceous fishes,
such as sharks, also to the larger gulls, and only a small percentage of the original brood
attains its majority.

Besides turning turtles, which is of course confined strictly to a certain season, the fishermen
of the reef resort to another method, called pegging. The instrument of capture is a three-sided
peg, often made by cutting off the end of a file. This is attached to a long line and fitted
into a copper cap on the end of a long pole, the whole constituting an unbarbed spear. Thus
armed, the turtler sculls over the reef, striking the turtle either as it lies asleep on the
bottom or as it rises to breathe. The peg is hurled long distances with great skill and accuracy:
as soon as it strikes, the pole comes out, and the victim is managed by the line, often towing
the dingy for a considerable distance. The peg holds by suction; and, as it only enters the
hard shell, and that only half an inch, the animal is not in the least injured for transportation
to the North.

Key West is the head quarters of the Florida turtling-trade, and on the north shore of the
island, where a shoal reef stretches away, a number of crawls have been from time immemorial
used, being merely fences or enclosures in which the animals are penned until the time for
shipment. By far the greater number find their way to New York, being packed and crowded, often
brutally, in the common fish-cars at the Fulton Market dock in such numbers that many are unable
to rise, and consequently drown. The greatest injustice, however, to the long-suffering turtle
comes when the miserable animal is propped up before some restaurant door, bearing upon its
broad carapace the grim assertion, "To be served this day."

The green or loggerhead turtles are rarely seen north of Cape Florida. The outer reef is their
home, their range extending far to the south. Old turtles, like fishes, often have strange
companions. They are covered with barnacles of various kinds; several remoras form their body-guard,
clinging here and there as if part and parcel of their huge consort. Often small fish allied
to the mackerel accompany them, as does also the pilot-fish of the shark. One large loggerhead
pegged by the writer had its four flippers bitten off by the latter fishes so close to the
shell that it could barely move along, and would undoubtedly soon have succumbed, although
it is a common thing to find both green and loggerhead turtles minus parts of their locomotive
organs.

The great leather turtle (Sphurgis coriacea), the largest of the tribe, is rarely seen, being
seemingly a denizen of the high seas, and more commonly observed in colder waters; though Gosse
is authority for the statement that they form their nests on the island of Jamaica. The following
account is from the Jamaica "Morning Journal" of April 13, 1846: "The anxiety of the fishermen
in this little village was aroused on the 30th of last month by the track of a huge sea-monster,
called a trunk-turtle, which came on the sea-beach for the purpose of laying her eggs. A search
was made, when a hole in the sand was discovered, about four feet deep and as wide as the mouth
of a half-barrel, whence five or six dozen white eggs were taken out; the eggs were of different
sizes, the largest the size of a duck's egg. On the morning of the 10th of this month, at half-past
five o'clock, she was discovered by Mr. Crow, on the beach, near the spot where she first came
up; he gave the alarm, when all the neighbors assembled and got her turned on her back. She
took twelve men to haul her about two hundred yards. I went and measured her, and found her
dimensions as follows: from head to tail, six feet six inches; from the outer part of her fore
fin to the other end" (to the tip of the other?), "nine feet two inches; the circumference
round her back and chest, seven feet nine inches; circumference of her neck, three feet three
inches; the widest part of her fore fins, eighteen inches; her hind fins, two feet four inches
in length. Her back is formed like a round top of a trunk, with small white bumps in straight
lines, resembling the nails on a trunk; her color is variegated like the rainbow" (probably
the living skin displayed opaline reflections); "there is no shell on her back, but a thick
skin, like pump-leather."

Some years since, a gigantic specimen came ashore at Lynn beach, where for a long time it formed
an object of the greatest curiosity. It was over eight feet in length, and weighed nearly twenty-two
hundred pounds. Instead of definite scales, as in other turtles, it had a shell composed of
six plates, which formed longitudinal ridges extending from the head to the tail; the eye-openings
were up and down, instead of lengthwise; the bill was hooked; and so many remarkable characteristics
did it possess that many believed it to be a strange nondescript, and not a turtle.

It would not be surprising to find that such a creature was descended from a remarkable ancestry;
and, following it up, we are led far into the early history of the later geological times,
when all life seems to have attained its maximum growth; in fact, it was an era of giants.
The map-maker of to-day would be astonished if confronted with the coast-line of that early
time. The coast-country from Nova Scotia to Yucatan was all under water, and what are now our
plains and prairies was a vast sea, that commenced where Texas now is and extended far to the
northwest. Even now the old coast-line can be traced. We follow it along from Arkansas to near
Fort Riley, on the Kansas River, then, extending eastward, it traverses Minnesota, extending
into the British possessions to the head of Lake Superior, while its western shores are lost
under the waters of the Pacific Ocean. Such was this great Cretaceous sea, in whose waters,
with hundreds of other strange creatures, lived the ancestor of our leather tortoise. The ancient
sea, however, disappeared; the land rose and surrounded it; the great forms died and became
buried in the sediment, and finally the water all evaporated, leaving the bottom high and dry,--an
ancient grave-yard, that can be visited on horseback or by the cars.

What is now known as the State of Kansas is one of the most favored spots, and here, embedded
in the earth, have been found the remains of these huge forms. The bones were first seen projecting
from a bluff, and, gradually worked out, proved to be those of a gigantic turtle that must
have measured across its back from flipper to flipper fifteen feet, while its entire length
must have been twenty feet or more. The name of this giant is the Protostega gigas, a fitting
forefather for the great leather turtle of to-day. In some parts of the West the hardened shells
of other and smaller turtles are scattered about in great confusion. Nearly all have been turned
to stone, and, thus preserved, form a monument of this past time.

A number of years ago some natives in Southern India were engaged in making an excavation under
the superintendence of an English officer, when they discovered the remains of one of the largest
fossil turtles ever found. They had penetrated the soil for several feet, when their implements
struck against a hard substance which was at first supposed to be solid rock, but a bar sank
through it, showing it to be either bone or wood. The earth being carefully removed, the remains
of a mound-shaped, adobe structure gradually appeared. The natives thought it a house; but
the Englishman saw that they had come upon the remains of some gigantic creature of a past
age. Every precaution was taken, and finally the shell was fully exposed. The restoration shows
it as dome-shaped, nearly fourteen feet long, thirty-three feet in horizontal circumference,
and twenty feet in girth in a vertical direction. Its length when alive must have been nearly
thirty feet, and its feet were as large as those of a rhinoceros. The capacity of the shell
of this ancient boatman was such that six or seven persons could have found protection within
it. Its name is Colossochelys atlas, a land-tortoise of the Miocene time of geology. Its nearest
representatives of to-day are, if not so large, equally marvellous in their general appearance.
They are found in the Galapagos and Mascarene Islands, and some of them are seven feet in length,
with high domed and plated shells, presenting the appearance of miniature houses moving along.
A single shell would form a perfect covering for a child. There are five distinct species found
here, each inhabiting a different island. Chatham Island, the home of some, seems completely
honeycombed with black truncated volcano cones that spring up everywhere, while masses of lava
cover the ground, having been blown into weird and fantastic shapes when soft.

In among the cones low underbrush and cacti grow, and feeding upon these are found the great
tortoises, which at the approach of danger draw in their heads with a loud hiss or move slowly
and clumsily away. Their strength is enormous. A small one, three feet long, carried the writer
along a hard floor with perfect ease, and one of the largest would probably not be inconvenienced
by a weight of five hundred pounds. They attain a great age, often living, it is said, a hundred
years or more.

While we have been digressing, the turtles have been dumped into the great moat that surrounds
the fort, and, stretched upon the deck, the sable crew are fast asleep. The writer has been
watching a large three-master moving along two or three miles beyond Loggerhead Key. Our attention
is distracted for some time, and, upon looking again, we find that she has not moved, and impart
the fact to Sandy, who looks steadily through his long spy-glass, evidently made up of several
others; then, gazing intently over the top, he brings all hands to their feet by the cry of
"Wrack!" For Sandy is a licensed "wracker."

