    Yours faithfully,

    EVE.

    Sir,--In my opinion your paper is the cleverest in the
    country--nay in the world. Nowhere else is such exquisite
    literary discrimination shown. I enclose a small contribution
    for your consideration, and am,

    Yours faithfully,

    CONSTANT READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PAPER-CHASE.

I arrived at home at three o'clock on a frosty afternoon. "Now," thought I, "I shall have a
quiet time before tea and shall be able to write a few letters and start my article." It was
a dream of usefully employed leisure, but it didn't last long.

I found the whole family, with the addition of a little boyfriend, gathered together in a very
purposeful and alarming way in the library There was about them an undefinable air of the chase,
for they were all well-booted and belted, and Peggy had a large clasp-knife dangling at her
waist. "It is for the hare," she said, "when we catch him."

"The hare?" I said. "What hare?"

"You," said the lady of the house cheerfully, "are to be the hare. You are to run till you
are cooked, and then you will be caught."

"What madness is this?" I said.

"It's not madness a bit," said Helen indignantly. "It's a paper-chase."

"And I," said Rosie, "have torn up all The Timeses."

"And I," said John, who is not always sure of his tenses, though he is very voluble, "have
tored up The Daily Newses."

"That's capital," I said with enthusiasm. "A paper-chase is the best fun in the world. I'll
see you start and give you a cheer."

"You can't do that," said Helen firmly, "because we've settled that you're to carry the bag
and be the hare."

"Come, come," I said, "this is an unworthy proposal. Would you chase your more than middle-aged
father over the open country? Never. How could he look the village in the face if he were to
be seen scattering little bits of paper from a linen bag? He would fall in their estimation
and would drag you all with him in his fall. John," I said, "you would not have your father
fall, would you?"

"It would make me laugh," said John, and the rest seemed to think that this callous remark
settled the matter.

"Anyhow," I said, "I must have plenty of law."

"We won't have any law," said Helen, who is an intelligent child; "it's all quarrellings."

"Law," I said, "is the embodiment of human wisdom. In this case it means that I'm going to
have ten minutes' start. Everyone of you must pledge his or her honour not to move until I've
been gone ten minutes."

They made no difficulty about this, and, the lady of the house having appointed herself time-keeper
and having promised to have a large tea ready for us when we returned, I was sent on my way
with a bag of paper and many shrill shouts of encouragement.

Now I ask my colleagues in the parental business to consider my case. I daresay they fancy
themselves as runners on the strength of their remembered boyish feats and of certain more
recent runs when they have lingered too long over breakfast and have had to catch a train.
I warn them not to build a paper-chase on so slender a foundation. A jog-trot seems the easiest
thing in the world, but after two hundred yards the temptation to lapse into a walk becomes
irresistible. I will dwell no further on my own experiences, but transfer myself in imagination
to the hounds who were chasing me. Afterwards I heard so much of their exploits that I almost
came to feel I had shared in their daring and been a party to their final success.

From the garden door the line led across the road and on to a track skirting the railway. This
piece was taken at a brisk pace, the scent being breast-high. A sheet might have covered the
whole pack. Then came a hairpin turn over the level crossing, a swing to the right and a steady
trudge up the hill. Half-way up there were gates to the right and the left, and here the blown
but wary hare had laid his first false trail. This unsuspected device roused the utmost indignation,
and doubts were freely expressed as to its being legitimate. John was sent to the right to
investigate; Peggy went off to the left, which proved to be the true trail, and in a very short
time the dauntless five were once more in full cry. Rosie, who is a reader of books, afterwards
said that no sleuth-hounds could have done the thing better. So by paths and ploughed fields
and over gates and stiles the dreadful chase continued until there came another check. "These,"
said Helen, pointing to some pieces of paper, "are not newspaper. They are bits of letters."
It was too true. The Timeses and The Daily Newses had given out, and the hare, omitting nothing
that might lead to his destruction, had torn up all his available correspondence. It threw
the pack out for a few minutes, but they rallied. In another hundred-and-fifty yards they ran
into their hare, who, paperless and letterless, had taken refuge behind a tree and was ignominiously
hauled out.

So ended our great Christmas paper-chase, an event which must remain justly celebrated both
for the ardour with which it was undertaken and for the endurance with which it was pursued.
What a chatter there was as we returned, what a narration of glorious incidents of pace, of
skill and of cunning defeated by greater cunning. Falls there had been and shin-scrapes and
the tearing of skirts and stockings, and legends were made up and told again and again. And
at home the lady of the house had to hear it all once more, and the tea she gave us was voted
the best in the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

Copy of letter to Clerk of the Peace in reply to Jury Summons:--

    DEAR SIR, Your to hand re Sumons to Quarter Sessions on
    Jany 9/14

    I beg to be excused from this as I have ann absess forming
    under a bad tooth and at the present time my face is very much
    swollen.

    further that the 9th being a red letter day in my life being
    the day on which my dear wife passed away

    and I have understood that all those over 60 year of age was
    exempt from these things. So I shall be extreemly obligid if
    you could free me this time answer by bearer will oblig
                                            your respectfully

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTINENTAL INTELLIGENCE.

An extraordinary domestic tragedy is reported from a remote province of Poland. A beautiful
young woman, named Vera Alexandrina Polianowski, who had been married only about two years,
was expecting the return home of her husband, a sailor. During his absence of five months a
mournful calamity had befallen her in an affection of the larynx, which threatened to deprive
her temporarily of the power to articulate. Realising her impending affliction, she had taught
a grey parrot, which her husband had left with her, to exclaim repeatedly from just inside
the door of her cottage, in joyous accents that bore no inconsiderable resemblance to her own
once melodious voice, these touching words, "Enter, dearest Vladimir, and console me for my
misfortune!"

It chanced, however, that before marrying Vladimir Polianowski, the sailor, Vera Alexandrina
had had a lover in poor circumstances named Vladimir Crackovitch, whom, with the thoughtlessness
of a beautiful young girl, she had encouraged to get rich as quickly as he could in America
and then return to claim her as his bride. Vladimir Crackovitch had taken her at her word.
With the silent determination of a great soul, he had amassed about a hundred thousand dollars
in America in less than four years, and only two or three minutes before Vera Alexandrina's
husband was due to arrive he himself stood at the cottage door with folded arms, asking himself
if he should or should not enter and reproach Vera Alexandrina for her inconstancy.

His hesitation was suddenly overcome by the parrot. "Enter, dearest Vladimir, and console me
for my misfortune!" it cried eagerly from within, and, not for an instant doubting that it
was an invitation from the woman whom he still loved fondly in spite of her perfidy, and being
unaware of her laryngeal affliction, he bounded into the house and hurried from room to room
until he found Vera Alexandrina Polianowski.

But Vladimir, the sailor, had already in the meantime, from the top of an adjacent lane, beheld
Vladimir Crackovitch at the door of his home, and, being a man of the most blindly passionate
and jealous impulses, his next procedure may be imagined.

Several hours later a neighbour called at the cottage and discovered the three corpses in one
sad heap: Vera Alexandrina Polianowski, shot through the breast; at her side, Vladimir Crackovitch,
with a bullet in each eye; and, still clutching his revolver, Vladimir, the sailor, seated
upon his grim cushion of the dead, his back supported against the wall under the domestic lamplit
icon, with a smile of hellish satisfaction frozen upon his lips and the remaining three bullets
buried in his heart.

The above is not necessarily a true story. It is a specimen of the small-print news with which
the rather young Assistant Sub-Editor of The Dullandshire Chronicle (established 1763) is permitted,
occasionally, to divert those of The Chronicle's subscribers who take an intelligent interest
in continental affairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "You know the 'Tziganes,' don't you?--those marvellous
    gentlemen in red coats with sleek dark singlets, exotic
    complexions, and bold, rolling black eyes."--Sunday
    Chronicle.

Strictly speaking, singlets, of whatever colour, should be worn under the coat.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HUNTSMAN'S STORY.

  I heard the huntsman calling as he drew Threeacre Spinney;
    He found a fox and hunted him and handled him ere night,
  And his voice upon the hill-side was as golden as a guinea,
    And I ventured he'd done nicely--most respectful and polite--
    Jig-jogging back to kennels, and the stars were shining bright.

  Old Jezebel and Jealous they were trotting at his stirrup;
    The road was clear, the moon was up, 'twas but a mile or so;
  He got the pack behind him with a chirp and with a chirrup,
    And said he, "I had the secret from my gran'dad long ago,
    And all the old man left me, Sir, if you should want to know.

  "And he was most a gipsy, Sir, and spoke the gipsy lingos,
    But he knew of hounds and horses all as NIMROD might have know'd:
  When we'd ask him how he did it, he would say, 'You little Gringos,
    I learnt it from a lady that I met upon the road;
    In the hills o' Connemara was this wondrous gift bestowed.'

  "Connemara--County Galway--he was there in 1830;
    He was taking hounds to kennel, all alone, he used to say,
  And the hills of Connemara, when the night is falling dirty,
    Is an ill place to be left in when the dusk is turning grey,
    An ill place to be lost in most at any time o' day.

  "Adown the dismal mountains that night it blew tremendous,
    A-sobbing like a giant and a-snorting like a whale,
  When he saw beside the sheep-track ('Holy Saints,' says he, 'defend us!')
    A mighty dainty lady, dressed in green, and sweet and pale,
    And she rode an all-cream pony with an Arab head and tail.

  "Says she to him, 'Young gentleman, to you I'd be beholden
    If you'd ride along to Fairyland this night beside o' me;
  There's a fox that eats our chickens--them that lays the eggs that's golden--
    And our little fairy mouse-dogs, ah, 'tis small account they'll be,
    Sure it wants an advertising pack to gobble such as he!'

  "So gran'dad says, 'Your servant, Miss,' and got his hounds together,
    And the mountain-side flew open and they rode into the hill;
  'Your country's one to cross,' says he, and rights a stirrup-leather,
    And he found in half-a-jiffey, and he finished with a kill;
    And the little fairy lady, she was with 'em with a will.

  "Then 'O,' says she, 'young man,' says she, ''tis lonesome here in Faerie,
    So won't you stay and hunt with us and never more to roam,
  And take a bride'--she looks at him--'whose youth can never vary,
    With hair as black as midnight and a breast as white as foam?'
    And 'Thank you, Miss,' says gran'dad, 'but I've got a wife at home!'

  "Then, 'O, young man,' says she, 'young man, then you shall take a bounty,
    A bounty of my magic that may grant you wishes three;
  Come make yourself the grandest man from out o' Galway County
    To Dublin's famous city all of my good gramarye?'
    And, 'Thank you, Miss,' says gran'dad, 'but such ain't no use to me.'

  "But he said, since she was pressing of her fairy spells and forces,
    He'd take the threefold bounty, lest a gift he'd seem to scorn:
  He'd ask, beyond all other men, the tricks o' hounds and horses,
    And a voice to charm a woodland of a soft December morn,
    And sons to follow after him, all to the business born.

  "And--but here we are at home, Sir. Yes, the old man was a terror
    For his fairies and his nonsense, yet the story's someways right;
  He'd the trick o' hounds and horses to a marvel--and no error;
    And to hear him draw a woodland was a pride and a delight;
    And--was it luck entirely, Sir, I killed my fox to-night?"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE WONDER.

The crowd had gone, the lights had been extinguished, and the doors of the music-hall were
shut. The Little Wonder was tired after the performance; his attempt to do the double somersault
had strained him, and his failure had brought a whipping. Although the outhouse in which he
was to lie was cold and damp and smelt horribly, he was glad when his master thrust him into
it, and he was content to lie down in the straw and forget his misery in sleep.

He dreamt a beautiful dream. He dreamt that he was a master, and that he was presenting to
a crowded audience what he had billed as "A Marvel of the Twentieth Century"--a performing
man. The man was a creature with a pink face, oily hair, and a black moustache; and the Little
Wonder, in his capacity as master, made the Marvel bark like a dog, whereat the audience yelped
its approval. Then the collar of a member of the audience was handed on to the stage, while
the Marvel was blindfolded, and, after sniffing the collar, he succeeded in tracking down its
owner--like a dog again. And in whatever trick the Marvel did, the Little Wonder was close
behind him, looking so friendly and threatening him with low growls at the same time. If the
Marvel happened to remember for a moment his miserable condition and to look unhappy, his master
would look still more kindly and threaten even more sternly. Then came the moment when the
orchestra stopped suddenly, and the kettledrum rolled, and the eyes of the audience were fixed
upon the Marvel. For this remarkable performing man was scratching in a tub of earth to find
a bone--just like a real dog; and that was his greatest trick. When he had successfully performed
it, his master (the Little Wonder) presented him with a twopenny cigar clothed in a flashy
cummerbund, to show how generously he rewarded achievements. Then, as the curtain fell, he
retired with many bows--and in the wings gave the Marvel a hot time for shirking the biscuit trick.

