On May 7 the Cunard steamship Lusitania was sunk by a German submarine in the war zone as decreed
by Germany, and more than 100 American citizens perished, with 1,000 other persons on board.

Thereupon, on May 13, the United States transmitted to the German Government a note on the
subject of this loss.

Germany replied to this note on May 29. It stated that it had heard that the Lusitania was
an armed naval ship which had attempted to use American passengers as a protection, and that,
anyway, such passengers should not have been present. It added:

     "The German commanders are consequently no longer in a
     position to observe the rules of capture otherwise usual and
     with which they invariably complied before this."

In support of this view the note cited international law and added:

     "It is upon this principle of humanity, as well as upon the
     law founded upon this principle, that the United States must
     stand."

Exactly one month later, on July 9, came Germany's reply. Its preamble praised the United States
for its humane attitude and said that Germany was fully in accord therewith. Something, it
asserted, should be done, for "the case of the Lusitania shows with horrible clearness to what
jeopardizing of human lives the manner of conducting war employed by our adversaries leads,"
and that under certain conditions which it set forth, American ships might have safe passage
through the war zone, or even some enemy ships flying the American flag. It continued:

     "The Imperial Government, however, confidently hopes the
     American Government will assume to guarantee that these
     vessels have no contraband on board, details of arrangements
     for the unhampered passage of these vessels to be agreed
     upon by the naval authorities of both sides."

It is to this reply that the note of the United States Government made public on July 24 is
an answer.

Germany's reply of July 8 and President Wilson's final rejoinder of July 21--which was given
to the American press of July 24--are presented below, together with accounts of the recent
German submarine attacks on the ships Armenian, Anglo-Californian, Normandy, and Orduna, involving
American lives, and an appraisal of the German operations in the submarine "war zone" since
February 18, 1915, when it was proclaimed. Also Austro-Hungary's note of June 29, protesting
against American exports of arms, and an account of American and German press opinion on the
Lusitania case are treated hereunder.

THE GERMAN MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS TO THE AMERICAN AMBASSADOR AT BERLIN

BERLIN, July 8, 1915.

The undersigned has the honor to make the following reply to his Excellency Ambassador Gerard
to the note of the 10th ultimo re the impairment of American interests by the German submarine war:

The Imperial Government learned with satisfaction from the note how earnestly the Government
of the United States is concerned in seeing the principles of humanity realized in the present
war. Also this appeal finds ready echo in Germany, and the Imperial Government is quite willing
to permit its statements and decisions in the present case to be governed by the principles
of humanity just as it has done always.

The Imperial Government welcomed with gratitude when the American Government, in the note of
May 15, itself recalled that Germany had always permitted itself to be governed by the principles
of progress and humanity in dealing with the law of maritime war.

Since the time when Frederick the Great negotiated with John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and
Thomas Jefferson the Treaty of Friendship and Commerce of September 9, 1785, between Prussia
and the Republic of the West, German and American statesmen have, in fact, always stood together
in the struggle for the freedom of the seas and for the protection of peaceable trade.

In the international proceedings which since have been conducted for the regulation of the
laws of maritime war, Germany and America have jointly advocated progressive principles, especially
the abolishment of the right of capture at sea and the protection of the interests of neutrals.

Even at the beginning of the present war the German Government immediately declared its willingness,
in response to proposals of the American Government, to ratify the Declaration of London and
thereby subject itself in the use of its naval forces to all the restrictions provided therein
in favor of neutrals.

Germany likewise has been always tenacious of the principle that war should be conducted against
the armed and organized forces of an enemy country, but that the enemy civilian population
must be spared as far as possible from the measures of war. The Imperial Government cherishes
the definite hope that some way will be found when peace is concluded, or perhaps earlier,
to regulate the law of maritime war in a manner guaranteeing the freedom of the seas, and will
welcome it with gratitude and satisfaction if it can work hand in hand with the American Government
on that occasion.

If in the present war the principles which should be the ideal of the future have been traversed
more and more, the longer its duration, the German Government has no guilt therein. It is known
to the American Government how Germany's adversaries, by completely paralyzing peaceful traffic
between Germany and neutral countries, have aimed from the very beginning and with increasing
lack of consideration at the destruction not so much of the armed forces as the life of the
German nation, repudiating in doing so all the rules of international law and disregarding
all rights of neutrals.

On November 3, 1914, England declared the North Sea a war area, and by planting poorly anchored
mines and by the stoppage and capture of vessels, made passage extremely dangerous and difficult
for neutral shipping, thereby actually blockading neutral coasts and ports contrary to all
international law. Long before the beginning of submarine war England practically completely
intercepted legitimate neutral navigation to Germany also. Thus Germany was driven to a submarine
war on trade.

On November 14, 1914, the English Premier declared in the House of Commons that it was one
of England's principal tasks to prevent food for the German population from reaching Germany
via neutral ports. Since March 1 England has been taking from neutral ships without further
formality all merchandise proceeding to Germany, as well as all merchandise coming from Germany,
even when neutral property. Just as it was also with the Boers, the German people is now to
be given the choice of perishing from starvation with its women and children or of relinquishing
its independence.

While our enemies thus loudly and openly proclaimed war without mercy until our utter destruction,
we were conducting a war in self-defense for our national existence and for the sake of peace
of an assured permanency.

With all its efforts in principle to protect neutral life and property from damage as much
as possible, the German Government recognized unreservedly in its memorandum of February 4
that the interests of neutrals might suffer from the submarine warfare. However, the American
Government will also understand and appreciate that in the fight for existence, which has been
forced upon Germany by its adversaries and announced by them, it is the sacred duty of the
Imperial Government to do all within its power to protect and save the lives of German subjects.
If the Imperial Government were derelict in these, its duties, it would be guilty before God
and history of the violation of those principles of highest humanity which are the foundation
of every national existence. In the most direct contradiction of international law all distinctions
between merchantmen and war vessels have been obliterated by the order to British merchantmen
to arm themselves and to ram submarines, and the promise of rewards therefor, and neutrals
who use merchantmen as travelers thereby have been exposed in an increasing degree to all the
dangers of war.

If the commander of the German submarine which destroyed the Lusitania had caused the crew
and passengers to take to the boats before firing a torpedo this would have meant the sure
destruction of his own vessel. After the experiences in sinking much smaller and less seaworthy
vessels it was to be expected that a mighty ship like the Lusitania would remain above water
long enough, even after the torpedoing, to permit passengers to enter the ship's boats. Circumstances
of a very peculiar kind, especially the presence on board of large quantities of highly explosive
materials, defeated this expectation.

In the spirit of friendship wherewith the German nation has been imbued toward the Union (United
States) and its inhabitants since the earliest days of its existence, the Imperial Government
will always be ready to do all it can during the present war also to prevent the jeopardizing
of lives of American citizens.

The Imperial Government, therefore, repeats the assurances that American ships will not be
hindered in the prosecution of legitimate shipping and the lives of American citizens in neutral
vessels shall not be placed in jeopardy.

In order to exclude any unforeseen dangers to American passenger steamers, made possible in
view of the conduct of maritime war by Germany's adversaries, German submarines will be instructed
to permit the free and safe passage of such passenger steamers when made recognizable by special
markings and notified a reasonable time in advance.

In order to furnish adequate facilities for travel across the Atlantic for American citizens,
the German Government submits for consideration a proposal to increase the number of available
steamers by installing in passenger service a reasonable number of neutral steamers under the
American flag, the exact number to be agreed upon under the same condition as the above-mentioned
American steamers.

The Imperial Government believes it can assume that in this manner adequate facilities for
travel across the Atlantic Ocean can be afforded American citizens. There would, therefore,
appear to be no compelling necessity for American citizens to travel to Europe in time of war
on ships carrying an enemy flag.

Germany merely followed England's example when she declared part of the high seas an area of
war. Consequently, accidents suffered by neutrals on enemy ships in this area of war cannot
well be judged differently from accidents to which neutrals are at all times exposed at the
seat of war on land, when they betake themselves into dangerous localities in spite of previous
warnings. If, however, it should not be possible for the American Government to acquire an
adequate number of neutral passenger steamers, the Imperial Government is prepared to interpose
no objections to the placing under the American flag by the American Government of four enemy
passenger steamers for passenger traffic between North America and England. Assurances of "free
and safe" passage for American passenger steamers would then extend to apply under the identical
pro-conditions to these formerly hostile passenger steamers.

The President of the United States has declared his readiness, in a way deserving of thanks,
to communicate and suggest proposals to the Government of Great Britain with particular reference
to the alteration of maritime war. The Imperial Government will always be glad to make use
of the good offices of the President, and hopes that his efforts in the present case as well
as in the direction of the lofty ideal of the freedom of the seas, will lead to an understanding.

The undersigned requests the Ambassador to bring the above to the knowledge of the American
Government, and avails himself of the opportunity to renew to his Excellency the assurance
of his most distinguished consideration.

VON JAGOW.

The American Rejoinder

THE SECRETARY OF STATE AT WASHINGTON TO THE AMERICAN AMBASSADOR AT BERLIN

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, July 21, 1915.

The Secretary of State to Ambassador Gerard:

You are instructed to deliver textually the following note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs:

The note of the Imperial German Government, dated the 8th day of July, 1915, has received the
careful consideration of the Government of the United States, and it regrets to be obliged
to say that it has found it very unsatisfactory, because it fails to meet the real differences
between the two Governments, and indicates no way in which the accepted principles of law and
humanity may be applied in the grave matter in controversy, but proposes, on the contrary,
arrangements for a partial suspension of those principles which virtually set them aside.

The Government of the United States is, however, keenly disappointed to find that the Imperial
German Government regards itself as in large degree exempt from the obligation to observe these
principles, even when neutral vessels are concerned, by what it believes the policy and practice
of the Government of Great Britain to be in the present war with regard to neutral commerce.
The Imperial German Government will readily understand that the Government of the United States
cannot discuss the policy of the Government of Great Britain with regard to neutral trade except
with that Government itself, and that it must regard the conduct of other belligerent governments
as irrelevant to any discussion with the Imperial German Government of what this Government
regards as grave and unjustifiable violations of the rights of American citizens by German
naval commanders.

The Government of the United States is not unmindful of the extraordinary conditions created
by this war or of the radical alterations of circumstance and method of attack produced by
the use of instrumentalities of naval warfare which the nations of the world cannot have had
in view when the existing rules of international law were formulated, and it is ready to make
every reasonable allowance for these novel and unexpected aspects of war at sea; but it cannot
consent to abate any essential or fundamental right of its people because of a mere alteration
of circumstance. The whole world has looked with interest and increasing satisfaction at the
demonstration of that possibility by German naval commanders. It is manifestly possible, therefore,
to lift the whole practice of submarine attack above the criticism which it has aroused and
remove the chief causes of offense. The very agreement would, by implication, subject other
vessels to illegal attack, and would be a curtailment and therefore an abandonment of the principles
for which this Government contends, and which in times of calmer counsels every nation would
concede as of course.

LANSING.

German and American Press Opinion

ON THE GERMAN NOTE OF JULY 8

The German answer to the United States with regard to submarine warfare was reported from Berlin
on July 10 as having caused the most intense satisfaction among the Germans and brought relief
to them, for the mere thought that the submarine war would be abandoned would cause widespread
resentment.

The Berlin newspapers printed long editorials approving the Government's stand and "conciliatory"
tone. Captain Perseus, in the Tageblatt, said that the "new note makes clearer that the present
course will be continued with the greatest possible consideration for American interests."
The note "stands under the motto, 'On the way to an understanding,' without, however, failing
to emphasize the firm determination that our interests must hold first place," in other words,
that Germany "cannot surrender the advantages that the use of the submarine weapon gives to
the German people."

The Lokal Anzeiger of Berlin commented:

"Feeling has undoubtedly cooled down somewhat on the other side of the water, and Americans
will undoubtedly admit that it is not Germany that tries to monopolize the freedom of the seas
for itself alone.

"In any event, we have now done our utmost and can quietly await what answer President Wilson
and his advisers will think suitable."

George Bernhard in the Vossische Zeitung remarked that the publication of the note means "liberation
from many of the doubts that have excited a large part of the German people in recent weeks.
The note ... means unconditional refusal to let any outsider prescribe to us how far and with
what weapons we may defend ourselves against England's hunger war."

What they considered the moderation of the note impressed most Berlin newspapers. Thus the
Morgen Post said: "Those who had advised that we ought to humble ourselves before America will
be just as disappointed as those who thought we ought to bring the fist down on the table and
answer America's representations with a war threat."

Count von Reventlow, radical editor of the Tageszeitung, said: "The substance of the proposals
is to create a situation making it unnecessary for Americans to travel to Europe on ships under
an enemy flag," and the Tägliche Rundschau said that the "answer with gratifying decisiveness,
guards the conscience of the nation in the question of continuing the submarine war," but it
criticises the note for possibly going too far in making concessions, which "may prove impracticable
and result in weakening the submarine war."

The unfavorable reception of Germany's note in the United States, as reported through English
and French agencies, was read in Berlin with incredulity.

The Kreuz-Zeitung, the Tageszeitung, and the Boersen Zeitung expressed the belief that British
and French news agencies had purposely selected unfavorable editorial expressions from the
American newspapers for the sake of the effect they would have in Great Britain and France.

"Regarding the reception of the German note in America," the Kreuz-Zeitung said, "several additional
reports from British sources are now at hand. Reuter's Telegram Company presents about a dozen
short sentences from as many American papers. Were these really approximately a faithful picture
of the thought of the American press as a unit, we should have to discard every hope of a possibility
of an understanding. The conception of a great majority of the German people is that we showed
in our note an earnest desire to meet, as far as possibly justified, American interests."

Like the Berlin press, German-American newspapers were unanimous in praise of the German note;
to the New Yorker Staats-Zeitung it appeared a "sincere effort to meet the questions involved"
and as "eminently satisfactory." The New Yorker Herold thought that any one with "even a spark
of impartiality" would have to admit the "quiet, conciliatory tone of the German note" as "born
of the consciousness in the heart of every German that Germany did not want the war"; that
after it was forced on her she "waged it with honorable means." The Illinois Staats-Zeitung
of Chicago declared it to be the "just demand of Germany" that Americans should not "by their
presence on hostile boats try to protect war materials to be delivered by a friendly nation
at a hostile shore." From the Cincinnati Freie Presse came the comment that Washington "has
no business to procure safety on the ocean for British ships carrying ammunition."

The American newspapers were nearly unanimous in adverse criticism of the note. THE NEW YORK
TIMES said that Germany's request was "to suspend the law of nations, the laws of war and of
humanity for her benefit." The Chicago Herald declared that the German answer "is disappointing
to all who had hoped that it would clearly open the way to a continuance of friendly relations."
While the San Francisco Chronicle discerned in the note "an entire absence of the belligerent
spirit," it found that "Germany is asking us to abridge certain of our rights on the high seas."
To the Denver Post the reply was the "extreme of arrogance, selfishness, and obstinacy," while
The Atlanta (Ga.) Constitution remarks that German words and German deeds are separate matters:
"The all-important fact remains that since President Wilson's first note was transmitted to
that country, Germany has given us no single reasonable cause of complaint." The Louisville
(Ky.) Courier-Journal believes the German reply would carry more weight and persuasion "if
it could be considered wholly and apart as an ex parte statement." "Without equivocation and
with a politeness of offensively insinuating," the Boston Transcript concludes, "Germany rejects
each and all of our demands and attempts to bargain with respect to the future."

ON THE AMERICAN NOTE OF JULY 21

Publication of the American note in Berlin was delayed until July 25, owing to difficulty in
translating its shades of meaning. While German statesmen and editors expressed keen appreciation
of its literary style, the press was unanimous in considering the note disappointing, expressing
pained surprise at the American stand. Captain Perseus, naval critic of the Berlin Tageblatt,
said that the note "expresses a determination to rob us of the weapon to which we pin the greatest
hopes in the war on England," and indicates that the "pro-British troublemakers have finally
won over the President." Count von Reventlow in the Tageszeitung complains of the note's "far
too threatening and peremptory tone." The Kreuz-Zeitung says: "We are trying hard to resist
the thought that the United States with its standpoint as expressed in the note, aims at supporting
England," and Georg Bernhard of the Vossische Zeitung believes that yielding to President Wilson's
argument means "the weakening of Germany to the enemy's advantage," adding that any one who
has this in mind "is not neutral, but takes sides against Germany and for her enemies." The
Boersen Zeitung says it is compelled to say, with regret, that the note is very unsatisfactory
and "one cannot escape feeling that the shadow of England stands behind it." The New Yorker
Staats-Zeitung says that the note is distinguished for its "clear language," and quotes the
phrase "deliberately unfriendly" while noting the demand for disavowal and reparation. "Of
quite unusual weight," the Staats-Zeitung says, "is the hint on the fact that the United States
and Germany, so far as the freedom of the seas is concerned, have the same object in view."
"Sharp and clear is it also explained" that after the end of the war the United States is "ready
to play the rôle of an intermediary, in order to find a practicable way out." In fact, the
note handed to the Government in Berlin "is at the same time meant for London," since it expresses
itself as determined to protect neutrals "against every one of the warring nations." The New
Yorker Herold is "certain that the complications will be settled amicably," while the Illinois
Staats-Zeitung feels that "apparently our Government has a secret agreement with England intentionally
to provoke Germany."

In praise of this note American press opinion is again nearly unanimous. The New York World
says that "what the President exacts of Germany is the minimum that a self-respecting nation
can demand." The New York Tribune calls the note an admirable American document. The Rochester
Democrat and Chronicle says it is strongly put, but not too strongly, and the Boston Herald
thinks there is no escape from its logic. The Philadelphia Public Ledger says "the final word
of diplomacy has obviously been said," and the Administration cannot "engage in further debate
or yield on any point." The Chicago Herald believes the note is couched in terms that "no intelligent
man would resent from a neighbor whose friendship he values." The St. Louis Republic says:
"One hundred and twenty-eight years of American history and tradition speak in President Wilson's
vindication." The St. Paul Pioneer Press calls the note "a great American charter of rights,"
and the Charleston News and Courier declares that "we have drawn a line across which Germany
must not step." The Portland Oregonian says: "If there was any expectation that the President's
note to Germany would yield any measure of American rights or descend from the noble and impressive
determination of the original warning to and demand upon Germany, it has not been fulfilled."

Austria-Hungary's Protest

An Associated Press dispatch dated London, July 16, says:

According to an Amsterdam dispatch to Reuter's Telegram Company it is stated from Vienna that
the Austro-Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs sent a note to the American Ambassador at
Vienna on June 29, drawing attention to the fact that commercial business in war material on
a great scale is proceeding between the United States and Great Britain and her Allies, while
Austria-Hungary and Germany are completely cut off from the American market.

It is set forth in the note that this subject has occupied the Government of the Dual Monarchy
from the very beginning, and, although the Government is convinced that the American attitude
arises from no other intention than to observe the strictest neutrality and international agreements,
yet "the question arises whether conditions as they have developed during the course of the
war, certainly independently of the wish of the American Government, are not of such a kind
as in their effect to turn the intentions of the Washington Cabinet in a contrary direction.

"If this question is answered in the affirmative, and its affirmation cannot be doubted," according
to the opinion of the Austro-Hungarian Government, "then the question follows whether it does
not seem possible, or even necessary, that appropriate measures should be taken to make fully
respected the wish of the American Government to remain a strictly impartial vis-à-vis of both
belligerent parties."

The note continues:

"A neutral government cannot be allowed to trade in contraband unhindered, if the trade take
the form and dimensions whereby the neutrality of the country will be endangered. The export
of war material from the United States as a proceeding of the present war is not in consonance
with the definition of neutrality. The American Government, therefore, is undoubtedly entitled
to prohibit the export of war material.

"Regarding the possible objections that American industry is willing to supply Austria-Hungary
and Germany, which, however, is impossible owing to the war situation, it may be pointed out
that the American Government is in a position to redress this state of things. It would be
quite sufficient to advise the enemies of Austria-Hungary and Germany that the supply of foodstuffs
and war material would be suspended if legitimate trade in these articles between Americans
and neutral countries was not permitted."

In conclusion, the Austro-Hungarian Government appeals to the United States, calling attention
to the uninterrupted good relations and friendship between that country and the dual monarchy,
to take the present note under careful consideration.

WHY AUSTRIA ACTED

A dispatch from Vienna, via London, dated July 16, gives the following information from The
Associated Press:

From a highly authoritative source at the Foreign Office a representative of The Associated
Press has received an explanation of the motives that are said to have inspired the dispatch
of the Austro-Hungarian note to the United States regarding the American traffic in war munitions.

The Austro-Hungarian statesman who spoke said that, although the facts upon which the note
was based had been in existence for a long time, the communication was sent only now, when,
after great victories in Galicia, it could not be interpreted as a cry for help from a land
in distress. He disavowed in advance any idea that the note was sent at the request or inspiration
of Germany, asserting that the step was taken spontaneously in the hope that, owing to the
undisturbed friendly relations between Austria-Hungary and the United States, the note would
be assured a sympathetic reception in the latter country.

"The note," said this statesman, "is inspired by friendly feelings of the monarchy toward the
Union, where so many of our subjects have found a second home. It is the speech of a friend
to a friend--an attitude which we are the more justified in taking because the relations of
the two states have never been clouded.

"It might, perhaps, easily be a source of wonder that, since the basic grounds of the note
have been in existence for months, the note was not sent long ago; but there is a reason for
its appearance at this particular time. In view of the incredible rumors and reports about
the condition of the monarchy which have been circulating throughout the United States, this
note would surely have been interpreted at an earlier stage of events as a confession of weakness,
as an appeal for help in distress. Today, when a rich harvest is being garnered throughout
the monarchy, when talk of starving out Austria-Hungary therefore is rendered idle, when complaints
of shortage of ammunition are heard everywhere else except in the allied central monarchies,
there cannot be the slightest question of this.

"On the other hand, it might be asked why the note, under these conditions, was issued at all.
With nothing to check the victorious progress of the central powers in sight, with their ability
to meet pressure in the economic field demonstrated, it might well be thought that it is a
matter of indifference to them whether America continues her policy or not. That, however,
is not the case. The problems of international law which this war has brought up are of far-reaching
importance. The solutions reached will be standards of action for decades to come.

"For eminently practical as well as theoretical reasons, therefore, the monarchy is forced
now not only to concern itself with the questions of the day, but also to feel its responsibility
toward the future interests of mankind; and for this reason the Government thought it necessary
to approach the subject under discussion--the more so because it felt that the previous debate
pro and con had not, as it wished, led to the desired result, and because it believed that
numbers of arguments specially laid down in The Hague Convention hitherto had escaped consideration.

"It may, of course, be assumed that the note is a product of mature consideration, and was
drafted after consultation with international law experts of the first rank. The absence of
the slightest hostile intent in it against the Union is shown not only by the opening phrases,
but by the fact that it was published only after it leaked out in the United States that there
was no objection to its publication.

"The question of whether Austria-Hungary feels that she is being cut off by America may be
answered unreservedly in the affirmative. The military monarchy can and will continue the war
as long as necessary. The population will, as hitherto, suffer neither starvation nor material
want. But there are other interests than those connected primarily with war which every Government
is bound to consider, and unhampered trade relations with the United States are of the greatest
importance to us.

"Finally, not only material, also I might say sentimental, interests play a certain rôle not
to be underestimated among the people. Many warm friends of America among us are painfully
affected by the fact that actual conditions give the impression that America, even though unintentionally,
differentiates between the belligerents.

"Austro-Hungarian statesmen, conscious of the great rôle that America will be called upon to
play in the future, would forget their duty if they neglected to do everything in their power
to clear away the circumstances that shake the confidence of the bravely fighting armies and
the whole population in the justice of America. It is clear that the war would have been ended
long ago if America had not supplied our enemies with the means of continuing it.

"The assumption that the Austro-Hungarian note was sent at the wish of the German Government
is incorrect. On the contrary, it is a completely spontaneous demonstration, inspired wholly
by the Austro-Hungarian considerations. We hope it will be received and judged in America in
the same spirit in which it was sent."

MR. WOOLSEY'S OPINION

Theodore S. Woolsey, formerly Professor of International Law at Yale University, in Leslie's
Weekly, for July 29, has an article entitled "The Case for the Munitions Trade." In part Professor
Woolsey says:

In the midst of widespread industrial depression came a great war. This war intensified the
depression. It cut off markets, raised freights, retarded payments, upset the whole commercial
world and we suffered with the rest. Then shortly came a demand for certain products and certain
manufactures caused by the war itself, varied, considerable, even unexpected. This demand grew
until it became an appreciable factor in our industrial life, a welcome source of profit when
so many other sources of profit were cut off. It was a good thing; at the same time it was
a temporary, unnatural thing, and directly or indirectly it was based upon the desire of some
of our friends to kill others of our friends. Accordingly people began to give this trade bad
names. They called it unneutral, wrong, inhuman.

For the sake of our pockets we were adding to the sum of human suffering and slaughter, and
they urged that, even if legally justified, ethically this trade was a blot upon our character
as a humane and civilized people and must be stopped. Where does the truth lie? What can the
munitions trade say for itself?

Naturally, it turns for justification first to the usage of other wars, to the recognized rules
of international law.

The next previous article had prohibited a Government from engaging in this trade, so that
the distinction between what the State and the individual may do is made perfectly clear, provided
both belligerents are treated alike. To permit trade in arms with one belligerent and forbid
it with another would be unneutral and illegal.

We permit the munitions trade with both belligerents, it is true, and yet, owing to the chances
of war, the right to buy inures to the advantage of one only. Does this stamp our conduct as
unneutral? Quite the contrary. To embargo munitions bought by one because the other side does
not choose to buy would be the unneutral act. Germany doesn't buy because she cannot transport.

