NOVEMBER      NO. 5
         ================================

JOHN JAMES AUDUBON.

John James Audubon has always been a favorite with the writer, for the invincibleness of his
love of Nature and of birds is only equalled by the spontaneous freshness of his style, springing
from an affectionate and joyous nature. Recently there was found by accident, in an old calf-skin
bound volume, an autobiography of the naturalist. It is entitled "Audubon's Story of his Youth,"
and would make a very pretty book. As introductory to the diaries and ornithological biographies
of the birds, it would be very useful.

Two or three incidents in the life of this fascinating character are interesting as showing
the influence of the accidental in ultimate achievement.

"One incident," he says, "which is as perfect in my memory as if it had occurred this very
day, I have thought thousands of times since, and will now put on paper as one of the curious
things which perhaps did lead me in after times to love birds, and to finally study them with
pleasure infinite. My mother had several beautiful parrots, and some monkeys; one of the latter
was a full-grown male of a very large species. One morning, while the servants were engaged
in arranging the room I was in, 'Pretty Polly' asking for her breakfast as usual, 'Du pain
au lait pour le perroquet Mignonne,' (bread and milk for the parrot Mignonne,) the man of the
woods probably thought the bird presuming upon his rights in the scale of nature; be this as
it may, he certainly showed his supremacy in strength over the denizen of the air, for, walking
deliberately and uprightly toward the poor bird, he at once killed it, with unnatural composure.
The sensations of my infant heart at this cruel sight were agony to me. I prayed the servant
to beat the monkey, but he, who for some reason, preferred the monkey to the parrot, refused.
I uttered long and piercing cries, my mother rushed into the room; I was tranquilized; the
monkey was forever afterward chained, and Mignonne buried with all the pomp of a cherished
lost one. This made, as I have said, a very deep impression on my youthful mind."

In consequence of the long absences of his father, who was an admiral in the French navy, the
young naturalist's education was neglected, his mother suffering him to do much as he pleased,
and it was not to be wondered at, as he says, that instead of applying closely to his studies,
he preferred associating with boys of his own age and disposition, who were more fond of going
in search of bird's nests, fishing, or shooting, than of better studies. Thus almost every
day, instead of going to school, he usually made for the fields where he spent the day, returning
with his little basket filled with what he called curiosities, such as birds' nests, birds'
eggs, curious lichens, flowers of all sorts, and even pebbles gathered along the shore of some
rivulet. Nevertheless, he did study drawing and music, for which he had some talent. His subsequent
study of drawing under the celebrated David, richly equipped him for a work which he did not
know was ever to be his, and enabled him to commence a series of drawings of birds of France,
which he continued until he had upwards of two hundred completed. "All bad enough," he says,
"yet they were representations of birds, and I felt pleased with them." His efforts were commended
by one of his friends, who assured him the time might come when he should be a great American
naturalist, which had such weight with him that he felt a certain degree of pride in the words,
even then, when he was about eighteen years of age.

"The store at Louisville went on prosperously, when I attended to it; but birds were birds
then as now, and my thoughts were ever and anon turning toward them as the objects of my greatest
delight. [How like Agassiz, who said he had not time to make money.] As he could not bear to
give the attention required by his business, his business abandoned him. "Indeed, I never thought
of business beyond the ever-engaging journeys which I was in the habit of taking to Philadelphia
or New York, to purchase goods; those journeys I greatly enjoyed, as they afforded me ample
means to study birds and their habits as I traveled through the beautiful, the darling forests
of Ohio, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania." Poor fellow, how many ups and downs he had! He lost everything
and became burdened with debt. But he did not despair for had he not a talent for drawing?
He at once undertook to take portraits of the human head divine in black chalk, and thanks
to his master, David, succeeded admirably. He established a large drawing school at Cincinnati,
and formed an engagement to stuff birds for the museum there at a large salary.

"One of the most extraordinary things among all these adverse circumstances" he adds, "was,
that I never for a day give up listening to the songs of our birds, or watching their peculiar
habits, or delineating them in the best way I could; nay, during my deepest troubles, I frequently
would wrench myself from the persons around me and retire to some secluded part of our noble
forests; and many a time, at the sound of the wood-thrushes' melodies, have I fallen on my
knees and there prayed earnestly to our God. This never failed to bring me the most valuable
of thoughts, and always comfort, and it was often necessary for me to exert my will and compel
myself to return to my fellow-beings."

Do you not fancy that Audubon was himself a rara avis and worthy of admiration and study?

Such a man, in the language of a contemporary, should have a monument in the old Creole country
in which he was born, and whose birds inspired his childish visions. It should be the most
beautiful work possible to the sculptor's art, portraying Audubon in the garb he wore when
he was proud and happy to be called the "American Woodman," and at his feet should stand the
Eagle which he named the "Bird of Washington," and near should perch the Mocking Bird, as once,
in his description, it flew and fluttered and sang to the mind's eye and ear from the pages
of the old reading book.

             C. C. MARBLE.

THE SUMMER TANAGER.

The tanagers are birds of such uncommon beauty that when we have taken the pictures of the
entire family the group will be a notable one and will add attractiveness to the portfolio.
[See Vol. I, pp. 31 and 216.] This specimen is also called the Summer Red-bird or Rose Tanager,
and is found pretty generally distributed over the United States during the summer months,
wintering in Cuba, Central America, and northern South America. As will be seen, the adult
male is a plain vermilion red. The plumage of the female is less attractive. In habits this
species resembles the Scarlet Tanager, perhaps the most brilliant of the group, but is not
so retiring, frequenting open groves and often visiting towns and cities.

The nesting season of this charming bird extends to the latter part of July, but varies with
the latitude and season. Bark strips and leaves interwoven with various vegetable substances
compose the nest, which is usually built on a horizontal or drooping branch, near its extremity
and situated at the edge of a grove near the roadside. Davie says: "All the nests of this species
which I have seen collected in Ohio are very thin and frail structures; so thin that the eggs
may often be seen from beneath. A nest sent me from Lee county, Texas, is compactly built of
a cottony weed, a few stems of Spanish moss, and lined with fine grass stems." Mr. L. O. Pindar
states that nests found in Kentucky are compactly built, but not very thickly lined. The eggs
are beautiful, being a bright, light emerald green, spotted, dotted, and blotched with various
shades of lilac, brownish-purple, and dark brown.

Chapman says the Summer Tanager may be easily identified, not alone by its color but by its
unique call-note, a clearly enunciated chicky, tucky, tuck. Its song bears a general resemblance
to that of the Scarlet, but to some ears is much sweeter, better sustained, and more musical.
It equals in strength, according to one authority, that of the Robin, but is uttered more hurriedly,
is more "wiry," and much more continued.

The Summer Tanager is to a greater or less extent known to farmers as the Red Bee-Bird. Its
food consists largely of hornets, wasps, and bees.

The male of this species requires several years to attain the full plumage. Immature individuals,
it is said, show a mixture of red and yellow in relative proportions according to age. The
female has more red than the male, but the tint is peculiar, a dull Chinese orange, instead
of a pure rosy vermilion, as in the male.

An interesting study for many of our readers during the summer months when the Tanagers are
gay in their full plumage, would be to seek out, with BIRDS in hand, the most attractive denizens
of the groves, identifying and observing them in their haunts until the entire group, of which
five species are represented in the United States, is made familiar. When we remember that
there are about three hundred and eighty known species of Tanagers in Tropical America, it
would seem a light task to acquaint oneself with the small family at home.

THE AMERICAN WHITE-FRONTED GOOSE.

"As stupid as a Goose!"

Yes, I know that is the way our family is usually spoken of. But then I'm not a tame Goose,
you know. We wild fellows think we know a little more than the one which waddles about the
duck-pond in your back yard.

He sticks to one old place all the time. Waddles and talks and looks the same year after year.
We migratory birds, on the other hand, fly from place to place. Our summers are passed here,
our winters there; so that we pick up a thing or two the common Goose never dreams of.

"The laughing Goose!"

Yes, some people call me that. I don't know why, unless my Honk, honk, honk! sounds like a
laugh. Perhaps, though, it is because the look about my mouth is so pleasant.

Did you ever see a flock of us in motion, in October or November, going to our winter home?

Ah, that is a sight! When the time comes for us to start, we form ourselves into a figure like
this >· a big gander taking the lead where the dot is. Such a honk, honk, honking you never
heard. People who have heard us, and seen us, say it sounds like a great army overhead.

Where do we live in summer, and what do we eat?

You will find us throughout the whole of North America, but in greater numbers on the Pacific
coast. The fresh-water lakes are our favorite resorts. We visit the wheat fields and corn fields,
nibbling the young, tender blades and feeding on the scattered grain. The farmers don't like
it a bit, but we don't care. That is the reason our flesh tastes so sweet.

And tough!

My, how you talk! It is only we old fellows that are tough, we fellows over a year old. But
of course a great many people don't know that, or don't care.

Why, I once heard of a gander that had waddled around a barnyard for five long years. Thanksgiving
Day arrived, and they roasted him for dinner.

Think of eating an old, old friend like that!

Where do we build our nests?

Away up north, in Alaska, and on the islands of the Arctic Sea. We make them of hay, feathers,
and down, building them in hollow places on the ground.

How many eggs?

Six. I am very good to my mate, and an affectionate father.

THE AMERICAN WHITE-FRONTED GOOSE.

White-fronted or Laughing Geese are found in considerable numbers on the prairies of the Mississippi
Valley. They are called Prairie Brant by market-men and gunners. Though not abundant on the
Atlantic seaboard, vast flocks may be seen in the autumn months on the Pacific Slope. In Oregon
and northern California some remain all winter, though the greater number go farther south.
They appear to prefer the grassy patches along streams flowing into the ocean, or the tide-water
flats so abundant in Oregon and Washington, where the Speckle-bellies, as they are called,
feed in company with the Snow Geese. The nesting place of this favorite species is in the wooded
districts of Alaska and along the Yukon river. No nest is formed, from seven to ten eggs being
laid in a depression in the sand.

It is said that notwithstanding all references to their ungainly movement and doltish intellect,
the Wild Goose, of which the White-fronted is one of the most interesting, is held in high
estimation by the sportsman, and even he, if keen of observation, will learn from it many things
that will entitle the species to advancement in the mental grade, and prove the truth of a
very old adage, that you cannot judge of things by outward appearance. A goose, waddling around
the barnyard, may not present a very graceful appearance, nor seem endowed with much intelligence,
yet the ungainly creature, when in its natural state, has an ease of motion in flight which
will compare with that of any of the feathered tribe, and shows a knowledge of the means of
defense, and of escaping the attacks of its enemies, that few possess. There is probably no
bird more cautious, vigilant, and fearful at danger than this. Should their suspicion be aroused,
they rise upward slowly in a dense cloud of white, and sound their alarm notes, but they may
not go over fifty yards before they alight again, so that the amusement of watching them may
be continued without much toil or inconvenience.

The White-fronted Goose visits Illinois only during its migrations, coming some time in October
or early in November, and returning in March or April. During its sojourn there it frequents
chiefly open prairies, or wheat fields, where it nibbles the young and tender blades, and cornfields,
where it feeds upon the scattered grains. In California, Ridgway says, it is so numerous in
winter as to be very destructive of the growing wheat crop, and it is said that in the Sacramento
and San Joaquin valleys, farmers often find it necessary to employ men by the month to hunt
and drive them from the fields. This is most successfully accomplished by means of brush hiding
places, or "blinds," or by approaching the flocks on horseback by the side of an ox which has
been trained for the purpose.

The White-fronted Goose is greatly esteemed for the excellent quality of its flesh, which,
by those who have learned to appreciate it, is generally considered superior to that of any
other species. While the cruel pursuit of the bird, merely for purpose of sport ought not to
be continued, appreciation of its value as food may well be encouraged.

THE TURNSTONE.

This small plover-like bird is found on the sea-coasts of nearly all countries; in America,
from Greenland and Alaska to Chili and Brazil; more or less common in the interior along the
shores of the Great Lakes and larger rivers.

It is generally found in company with flocks of the smaller species of Sandpipers, its boldly
marked plumage contrasting with surroundings, while the Sandpipers mingle with the sands and
unless revealed by some abrupt movement can hardly be seen at a little distance.

The name Turnstone has been applied to this bird on account of its curious habit of dexterously
inserting its bill beneath stones and pebbles along the shore in quest of food, overturning
them in search of the insects or prey of any kind which may be lurking beneath. It is found
on smooth, sandy beaches, though more commonly about the base of rocky cliffs and cones. The
eggs of horseshoe crabs are its particular delight.

