  Glorious Apollo! This is wondrous hard!
  Fancy JOHN BULL without Official Bard!
  His plight is sad as that of the great men
  Who lived, unmarked by the Poetic Pen,
  Before great AGAMEMNON. Ah, my HORACE,
  Britons are a Boeotian, heavy, slow race!
  As for the "Statesman" who treats bards so shabbily,
  'Twill serve him right if thine "illacrimabile"
  Applies to him. A Premier, but no Poet?
  England, you are dishonoured, and don't know it.
  Void of a Sacer Vates to enshrine
  In gorgeous trope and long-resounding line,
  Thy Victories, and Weddings, Shows and Valour?
  Parnassus shakes, the Muses pine in pallor.
  When foreign princelings mate our sweet princesses,
  When Rads of fleets and armies made sad messes,
  And stand in need of verbal calcitration;
  When--let's say ASHMEAD-BARTLETT--saves the nation
  In the great name of glorious Saint Jingo;
  When BULL gives toko or delivers stingo.
  To Fuzzy-Wuzzy, or such foolish savages;
  When our great guns commit most gallant ravages
  Among the huts of some unhappy village,
  Where naughty "niggers" have gone in for pillage;
  When SOMEONE condescends to be high-born,
  Or deigns to die, who now shall toot the horn,
  Or twang the lyre, emitting verse divine,
  For Fame and--say, about a pound per line?
  I must submit. I have not been "submitted,"
  But poetless JOHN BULL is to be pitied.
  Of course self-praise is no "recommendation,"
  (In GLADSTONE'S sense) or else, unhappy nation,
  I, even I, could spare you natural worry at,
  Your non-possession of a Poet-Laureate!

       *       *       *       *       *

IN A PICKWICKIAN SENSE.--When "a nate Irishman" (as the song has it) "meets with a friend,"
he incontinently "for love knocks him down," whether with a "sprig of shillelagh" or a "flower
of speech," depends upon circumstances. In either case he "means no harm," or at any rate far
less harm than the phlegmatic and matter-of-fact Saxon is apt to fancy. Probably, therefore,
an "Irish Phrase Book," giving the real "meaning" of Hibernian rhetorical epithets, would prove
a great peacemaker, in Parliament and out. Colonel SAUNDERSON, when he had recovered his temper,
and with it his wit, "toned down" the provocative "murderous ruffian," into the inoffensive
"excited politician." But what a pity it is that "excited politicians" so often string themselves
up to (verbal) "ruffianism."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST LIGHT.

  It scarce can be thou art the last
    To fade before my watchful gaze;
    So short the part that each one plays,
  A flickering flame, and life is past.

  And thou wert clothed in robe of snow,
    A crimson veil around thy head,
    And now thou liest, charred and dead,
  Erstwhile with ruddy fire aglow.

  I held thee in a fond embrace
    To guard thee from the whistling wind;
    And not another can I find
  To comfort me and take thy place.

  And though I lay aside my weeds,
    Yet like a widow I bemoan;
    Nor all the wealth the Indies own,
  Could satisfy my present needs.

  Thy spark has vanished from my sight,
    Useless cigar, tobacco, pipe;
    Of perfect misery the type,
  A man without another light.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMPLOYMENT FOR THE UNEMPLOYED.--On Tuesday, in last week, the Unemployed had their hands full,
when at Temple Avenue they unsuccessfully attempted to overcome the effective resistance of
the Police. The Unemployed might have been better employed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STAR OF HOPE.

(A New Naval Ode.)

     [The Royal Commission on Telegraphic Communication between Lighthouses
     and Lightships and the Shore, have issued their first report
     recommending immediate action in the more urgent cases. Dealing with
     the same subject, on November 28, 1891, Mr. Punch said:--

       "Punch pictures with prophetic pen, a brighter, cheerier page,
       Which must be turned, and speedily."--See "The Sweet Little
       Cherub that Sits up Aloft," (Modern Version as it Must Be) Vol.
       ci., p. 254.

     Mr. Punch is mightily pleased that his injunction has been obeyed,
     and that his prophecy is in process of fulfilment.]

  I.

  Ye Mariners of England,
  Shipwrecked in our home seas,
  How this will calm your wives' wild fears,
  And give your stout hearts ease!
  Hope's blue eyes gleam above the main,
  Her lifted light will glow,
  And sweep o'er the deep,
  When the stormy winds do blow;
  When the tempest rages loud and long,
  And the stormy winds do blow.

  II.

  The spirit comfort gathers,
  From schemes designed to save
  Brave fellows, who have dared the deep,
  Near home to find a grave.

  III.

  BRITANNIA needs as bulwarks
  Light-towers along the steep,
  To save her gallant sons from graves
  Near home, though on the deep.

  IV.

  The Mariners of England
  Glad eyes shall shoreward turn
  In danger's night. Behold, brave hearts,
  Where the Star of Hope doth burn!
  Science, tired by Humanity,
  Their grateful song shall flow
  To the fame of your name,
  When the storm has ceased to blow;
  When the storm is o'er, and they're safe ashore,
  Thanks to Hope's beacon-glow!

       *       *       *       *       *

Q. Are there any Lighthouses away from the Coast?--A. Certainly. Q. Where?--A. In London. Q.
Name them.--A. The Comedy, Toole's, the Opéra Comique, and Strand. All Light-and-leading Houses.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A METROPOLITAN MAYOR'S NEST.

     ["The Common Council is stated to have appointed a 'Fighting
     Committee' to oppose the Unification of London, and to take steps for
     the formation of separate Municipalities in different parts of the
     Metropolis."--Daily Paper.]

Lord Mayor's Day.--Ah, if only we had not got Parliament to sanction the plan of splitting
London up into distinct Municipalities, what a proud day this would be for me! As it is, must
try and remember that I am not LORD MAYOR of London at all, but only Mayor of the new Corporate
Borough of Cripplegate Without, one of the half-dozen boroughs into which the old City has
been divided.

The Show.--Well, thank goodness, we do keep that up! All the 674 Mayors of all the different
districts of London take part in it. That reminds me that I must put on my Civic robes, edged
with imitation ermine, and my aluminium chain of office, and prepare to start. A little hitch
to begin with. Mayors all assembled outside Guildhall. Mayor of South-South-West Hammersmith
tries to join us. Nobody seems to know him. Very suspicious, especially as, on referring to
official records, we find that there is no such borough as South-South-West Hammersmith! We
tell him so. He replies, sulkily, that it was created last night by a Special Vote of the South-West
Hammersmith Town Council, who found the work getting too much for them, and that, anyhow, "he
intends to take part in the procession." Awkward--but we have to yield.

In the Streets.--The 675 Mayors don't inspire as much respect as I should like. Perhaps it
is due to the fact that a regular scramble took place for seats in the old LORD MAYOR'S Coach,
in the course of which the Mayor of Tottenham Court Road was badly pommeled by the Mayor of
Battersea Rise, and the coach itself had one side knocked out of it. Also that we other Mayors
have to follow on foot, and are repeatedly asked if we are a procession of the Unemployed!

At the Law Courts.--In the good old days Lord Chief Justice used to deliver a flowery harangue
congratulating the Chief Magistrate on his elevation. But who is the Chief Magistrate now?
To-day a free fight among the Mayors to get first into the Court. In consequence, Chief Justice
angrily orders Court to be cleared, and threatens to commit us for contempt! Yet surely in
former days a Judge would have been imprisoned in the deepest dungeons of the Mansion House
for much less.

Evening.--The hospitable custom of the Ministerial banquet still retained. Prime Minister adopts
tactics of the Music Hall "Lion Comique," and, after addressing a few genial words to the guests
assembled at the table of the Mayor of West Ham, jumps into brougham, and appears a few minutes
later at Mayor of Shadwell's banquet, and so on to Poplar and Whitechapel, and as many as he
can crowd in. Other Ministers do the same. Still, not enough Cabinet Councillors to go round,
and to-night I am horrified to find that the assistant Under-Secretary to the deputy Labour
Commissioner had been chosen to reply to the toast of the health of the Ministry at my banquet!
Ichabod, indeed! [By the way, what a good name for a new Lord Mayor, "Ichabod," say, if knighted,
"Sir THOMAS ICHABOD." Air to be played by band on his entering Guildhall, "Ichabody meet a
body." But alas! these are dreams! Ichabod!] Yet, as the only building in which the Mayor of
Cripplegate Without can entertain his guest is the fourth floor of an unused warehouse, perhaps
we really don't deserve a higher official. Still, one can't help regretting that the City,
in its natural dread of the so-called "Unification of London," persuaded the Government to
agree to this sort of "Punification of London."

       *       *       *       *       *

TOAST FOR THE NEXT "QUEENSLAND MEAT" BANQUET.--"The Army, the Gravy, and the Preserved Forces!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAN FROM BLANKLEY'S.

A STORY IN SCENES.

     SCENE V.--The Dining-room; walls distempered chocolate; gaselier with
     opal-tinted globes; two cast-iron Cavaliers holding gas-lamps on the
     mantel-piece. Oil-portrait, enlarged from photograph, of Mrs.
     TIDMARSH, over side-board; on other walls, engravings--"Belshazzar's
     Feast," "The Wall of Wailing at Jerusalem," and DORÉ'S "Christian
     Martyrs." The guests have just sat down; Lord STRATHSPORRAN is
     placed between Miss SEATON and his hostess, and opposite Mr.
     GILWATTLE.

Lord Strath. (to himself). Deuced quaint-looking people--wish they wouldn't all eat their soup
at me! Why can't somebody say something? Wonder who's the Lady in black, all over big silver
tears--like a foreign funeral. Don't feel equal to talking to MARJORY again till I've had some
Sherry. (After sipping it.) Wormwood, by Jove! Champagne will probably be syrup--touch old
GILWATTLE up if he isn't careful--ah, he jibs at the Sherry!

Uncle Gab. Where the dickens did MONTY get this stuff, MARIA? Most 'strordinary bitter taste!

Mrs. Tid. (to herself, in an agony). I knew that bottle of GWENNIE'S Quinine Wine had got down
into the cellar somehow! (Aloud.) Don't drink it, Uncle, please, if it isn't quite what you like!

Uncle Gab. I'll take his Lordship's opinion. What do you think of this Sherry, my Lord? Don't
you find it rather--eh?

Lord Strath. (observing his hostess frown at him imperiously). Oh, excellent, Sir--very--er--mellow
and agreeable!

Uncle Gab. Ha--yes--now your Lordship mentions it, there's a sort of nuttiness about it.

     [He empties his glass.

Lord Strath. (to himself). There is--a rotten-nuttiness! I'm hanged if he hasn't bolted it!
Wonderful old Johnny!

Mrs. Tid. (to him, in an under-tone). You said quite the right thing!

Lord Strath. (ambiguously). Oh, not at all!

     [Turbot and lobster-sauce are taken round, and conversation becomes
     general.

Conversational Scraps. Assure you if I touch the smallest particle of lobster it instantly
flies to my.... Yes, alive. A dear friend of mine positively had to leave her lodgings at the
seaside--she was so disturbed by the screams of the lobsters being boiled in the back-kitchen....
I was reading only the other day that oysters' hearts continue to beat down to the very moment
they are being assimilated.... What they must suffer, poor dears! Couldn't there be a law that
they should only be eaten under chloroform, or something?... I never get tired of turbot--cod,
now, I don't care for, and salmon I like--but I can't digest--why, is more than I can tell
you.--(&c.)

Miss Seaton. (to herself.) To see DOUGLAS here a--a paid parasite--and actually seeming to
enjoy his food--it's like some dreadful nightmare--I can't believe it! But I'm glad he hasn't
the face to speak to me!

Lord Strath. (to SEAKALE offering Hock.) If you please. (To himself, after tasting.) Why, it's
quite decent! I begin to feel up to having this out with MARJORY. (Aloud.) Miss SEATON, isn't
it rather ridiculous for two such old friends as we are to sit through dinner in deadly silence?
Can't you bring yourself to talk to me? we shan't be overheard. You might tell me why you think
me such a ruffian--it would start us, at any rate!

Miss Seaton. I don't want to be started--and if you really don't know why I hate your coming
here in this way, Lord STRATHSPORRAN, it's useless to explain!

Lord Strath. Oh, we got as far as that upstairs, didn't we? And I may be very dense, but for
the life of me I can't see yet why I shouldn't have come! Of course, I didn't know I was in
for this exactly, but, to tell you the truth, I'm by way of being here on business, and I didn't
care much whether they were cheery or not, so long as I got what I came for, don't you know!

Miss Seaton. Of course, that is the main thing in your eyes--but I didn't think you would confess
it!

Lord Strath. Why, you know how keen I used to be about my Egyptian work--you remember the book
on Hieroglyphs I always meant to write? I'm getting on with it, though of course my time's
a good deal taken up just now. And, whether I get anything out of these people or not, I've
met you again, MARJORY--I don't mind anything else!

Miss Seaton. Don't remind me of--of what you used to be, and--and you are not to call me MARJORY
any more. We have met--and I only hope and pray we may never meet again. Please don't talk
any more!

Lord Strath. (to himself.) That's a facer! I wonder if MARJORY'S quite--is this the effect
of that infernal influenza?

Mrs. Tid. (to him in an under-tone). You and Miss SEATON appear to be on very familiar terms.
I really feel it my duty to ask you when and how you made the acquaintance of my daughter's
governess.

Lord Strath. (to himself). The governess! That explains a lot. Poor little MARJORY! (Aloud.)
Really? I congratulate you. I had the honour of knowing Miss SEATON in Scotland a year or two
ago, and this is the first time we have met since.

Mrs. Tid. Indeed? That is so far satisfactory. I hope you will understand that, so long as
Miss SEATON is in my employment, I cannot allow her to--er--continue your acquaintanceship--it
is not as if you were in a position----

Lord Strath. (with suppressed wrath.) Forgive me--but, as Miss SEATON shows no desire whatever
to renew my acquaintance, I don't see that we need discuss my position, or hers either. And
I must decline to do so.

Mrs. Tid. (crimsoning.) Oh, very well. I am not accustomed to be told what subjects I am to
discuss at my own table, but (scathingly) no doubt your position here gives you the right to
be independent--ahoo!

Lord Strath. I venture to think so. (To himself.) Can't make this woman out--is she trying
to be rude, or what?

Uncle Gab. Hullo, your Lordship's got no Champagne! How's that? It's all right--"FIZZLER, '84,"
my Lord!

Lord Strath. I daresay--but the fact is, I am strictly forbidden to touch it.

Uncle Gab. Pooh!--if your Lordship will excuse the remark--this won't do you any harm--comes
out of my own cellar, so I ought to know. (To SEAKALE.) Here, you, fill his Lordship's glass,
d'ye hear?

Mrs. Tid. (in a rapid whisper.) Don't make a fuss--you can take one glass as he wishes it!

Lord Strath. (to himself.) Can I though? If she imagines I'm going to poison myself to please
her uncle! (SEAKALE gives him half a glass, after receiving a signal from Mrs. T.) I suppose
I must just----(After tasting.) Why it's dry! Then why the deuce was I cautioned not to----?

Uncle Gab. That's a fine wine, isn't it, my Lord? Not much of that in the market nowadays,
I can tell you!

Lord Strath. (to himself.) Precious little here. (Aloud.) So I should imagine, Sir.

Uncle Gab. Your Lordship mustn't pass this entrée. My niece's cook knows her business, I will
say that for her.

Lord Strath. (as he helps himself.) I have already discovered that she is an artist.

Mrs. Tid. (in displeased surprise.) Then you know my cook too? An artist? and she seems such
a respectable person! Pray what sort of pictures does she paint?

Lord Strath. Pictures? Oh, really I don't know--potboilers probably.

     [Mrs. TID. glares at him suspiciously.

Conversational Scraps. And when I got into the hall and saw them all sitting in a row with
their faces blacked, I said "I'm sure they can't be the Young Men's Christian Association!"...
Hysteria? my poor dear wife is a dreadful sufferer from it--I've known her unable to sleep
at all except with one foot curled round her neck!... (&c. &c.)

Lord Strath. (to himself.) There's no doubt about it--this woman is trying to snub me--hardly
brings herself to talk at all--and then she's beastly rude! What did she ask me here for if
she can't be civil! If she wasn't my hostess--I'll try her once more, she may know something
about antiquities--(Aloud.) I suppose Mr. CARTOUCHE keeps his collection in a separate room?
I was told he has some hunting scarabs of the Amenhoteps that I am very curious to see.

Mrs. Tid. (stiffly). Mr. CARTOUCHE may keep all sorts of disagreeable pets, for anything I
know to the contrary.

Lord Strath. (to himself, in amazement). Pets! I'm hanged if I let myself be snubbed like this!
(Aloud.) I'm afraid you have very little sympathy with his tastes?

Mrs. Tid. Sympathy, indeed! I don't even know if he has any tastes. I am not in the habit of
troubling myself about my next-door neighbour's affairs.

Lord Strath. (with a gasp). Your next-door----! (He pulls himself together.) To be sure--of
course not--stupid of me to ask! (To himself.) Good Heavens!--these aren't the CARTOUCHES!
I'm at the wrong dinner-party--and this awful woman thinks I've done it on purpose! No wonder
she's so confoundedly uncivil!... And MARJORY knows it, too, and won't speak to me! Perhaps
they all know it.... What on earth am I to do?... I feel such a fool!

Miss Seaton (to herself). How perfectly ghastly DOUGLAS is looking! Didn't he really know the
CARTOUCHES lived next door?... Then--oh, what an idiot I've been! It's a mistake--he doesn't
come from BLANKLEY'S at all! I must speak to him--I must tell him how----no, I can't--I forgot
how horrid I've been to him! I should have to tell him I believed that--and I'd rather die!
No, it's too late--it's too late now!

     [Miss SEATON and Lord STRATHSPORRAN sit regarding the tablecloth
     with downcast eyes, and expressions of the deepest gloom and
     confusion.

(End of Scene V.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Rhyme by a Rad.

     [The question where the Liberal-Unionists shall sit has excited some
     discussion.]

  They have stolen the old Tory togs bit by bit,
    And we wish they would openly don them.
  However, it matters not much where they sit,
    For wherever it be we'll sit on them!

       *       *       *       *       *

"RAILWAY RATES."--Whatever question there may be on this subject, there can be none whatever
as to the rates at which "The Bournemouth Express," "The Granville L. C. & D.," and "The Flying
Dutchman," severally travel. Such rates are first rate.

       *       *       *       *       *

CON. FOR THE CONSOLATION OF THE MANY SUFFERERS FROM A CURRENT CATCH-WORD.--Q. What is the only
thing that is really "up-to-date"?--A. A palm-tree.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEM. FOR MR. VIVIAN AND THE ROYALISTS.--The Last of the STUARTS,--STUART KNILL. There can be
none after Nil.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRAMATIC WITHOUT BEING STAGEY.

The plan, successfully inaugurated, and, within the last fortnight, still more successfully
carried out by Sir DRURIOLANUS OPERATICUS BALMASCUS PANTOMIMICUS, of giving what may be called
"unstagey representations" of popular Operas--that is, popular Operas sung and acted without
the aid of scenes or properties (though "substitutes" may be permitted, as, for example, a
chair with four legs complete would represent a horse, and a round table a tower); the singers,
however, being in costume, may work an extensive "Transformation" Scene (which is quite in
Sir DRURIO'S line) in the Dramatic and Operatic world, and may effect such a change as will
save thousands to a Manager. Why not go a step further? Why have "costumes," or even "hand-properties"?
Why not leave everything, except the perfection of the singing and the dramatic action, to
the imagination of the audience? The prices of admission would be proportionately lowered,
and the numbers admitted, in all probability, would be trebled, on which hypothesis a calculation
may be based. What an exercise it would be for the imagination of the audience, were the Statue
Scene from Don Giovanni to be given with the Basso Profondo in evening dress, who represents
the Stony Commendatore, seated astride a plank resting on tressels placed on a table which
would have been substituted for the stone pedestal, while the Don or Leporello (it doesn't
much matter which) sings his asides to the audience! Here is novelty, and a great attraction!
It is returning to Elizabethan days, when Managers called a spade a spade, and then so labelled
it to prevent mistakes.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG FROM "AS YOU LIKE IT" (for the Member for East Galway, arranged by Colonel Saunderson,
M.P.).--"What shall he have who shot the Deer?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A BANK NOTE.--The most likely time for obtaining payment "in hard cash," is when the Money
Market "hardens a little," as was the case, so The Times Money Article informed us, last Friday.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"A STIFF JOB."

Grand Old Ploughman sings:--

  Speed the Plough! Ah, that's all mighty fine,
    And I like the old saying's suggestion;
  But--wi' a small crock such as mine,
    The speed may be matter o' question.
  I've set my hand to 'un, o' course,
    And munna look back, there's no doubt o' it:
  Yet I wish I'd a handier horse
    For the job, or that I were well out o' it!

  Stiff clay on a slaantin' hill-side,
    Would tax a strong team. Steady, steady!
  The little 'un goes a bit wide,
    And seems to be shirkin' already.
  To keep a straight furrow this go
    Will strain the old ploughman's slack muscle;
  And yet my new measters, I know,
    Will expect I to keep on the bustle.

  Stiff job for a little 'un? Yes!
    If he doesn't pull straight there'll be bother,
  Must make the best of 'un I guess,
    This time, for I sha'an't get no other.
  Gee up! I shall have a good try,
    On that they may bet their last dollar.
  It's do, poor old crook, now, or die!
    But--I must keep 'un oop to the collar!

       *       *       *       *       *

"This room is very close!" said Mrs. R., settling herself down to her knitting, which her nephew
had furtively unravelled. "Open the window, TOM, and let out the asphyxia."

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES ON THE AUTHOR OF THE LABOUR BUREAU.

(By a Labourer.)

  'Ooray for Mister MUNDELLA,
  (Who's under Old GLADDY'S umbrella.)
    For he's a jolly good fella,
      And so say all of hus!
  With a 'ip, 'ip, 'ip, 'ooray!
  We hope the Bureau may pay.
    Of course it might well have been better,
      But then--it might have been wus!

       *       *       *       *       *

EMPHASIS GRATIÂ.--What a difference a slight emphasis makes in an ordinary sentence! The D.
T. when giving, in advance, an account of a marriage to be solemnised the same afternoon, spoke
thus concerning the costumes of the very youthful bridesmaids. "They will wear dresses of very
pale blue silk, made up with ivory-hued lace." Now, had the second word been in italics, it
would have read thus, "They will wear," &c., as if everything had been done to prevent them
from so arraying themselves, "but, in spite of all efforts, they will wear dresses of very
pale blue!" So obstinate of them! Such nice little ladies, too!

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Liberal-Unionists have resolved to abstain from pairing during the present Session." So
The Times. "Birds in their little nests agree," quoth the eminent Dr. WATTS; but these Parliamentary
Birds will belie their name of "Unionists" if they refuse to "pair."

       *       *       *       *       *

TELEGRAM FROM HAWAIANS TO AMERICAN PRESIDENT.--"WE would be U.S."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANTI----?

  Your aid let me ask in a difficult task, Mr. Punch, with the greatest
          submission;
  To win for my name a well-merited fame was always my ardent ambition,
  And clearly to-day the least difficult way is to send an appeal to the
          papers,
  To form an intrigue for creating a league against fashion-designers and
          drapers.

  Thereby shall I reap an advertisement cheap, and writers, with much
          perseverance,
  Will furnish as news their apocryphal views on my appetite, age, and
          appearance;
  They all will revere my conviction sincere, and loudly re-echo my
          praises,
  But the thing which, as yet, I'm unable to get, is a novel departure in
          crazes

  The idea shall we float that a swallow-tail coat is only adapted for
          Vandals?
  Write pamphlets, designed to enlighten mankind on the duty of taking to
          sandals?
  Would a hatred of hats, or crusade on cravats, secure us a sympathy
          louder?
  Or shall we assert it is time to revert to patches, knee-breeches, and
          powder?

  Meanwhile, your applause we invite for our Cause--you notice the capital
          letter--
  Subscriptions and fees you may send when you please to the writer, the
          sooner the better.
  But as to the theme of this notable scheme, I wait for a timely
          suggestion;
  Its worth's beyond doubt, but what it's about remains, for the present, a
          question!

       *       *       *       *       *

The Bishop of CHESTER trembles. He is marked with the brand of "CAINE"!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVERSATIONAL HINTS FOR YOUNG SHOOTERS.

HOSTS.

"Dear Punch," writes a valued Correspondent, "I wish you'd tip me the wink how I'm to talk
to my hosts. I'm a poor man, but not a poor shot. So I get asked about a good deal to different
places, and as I'm not the sort that turns on the talking-tap very easily, I often get stuck
up. Just as I've got fairly into the swim with one of them I leave him, and have to think of
talk for quite a different kind of chap, and so on all through the season. For instance, last
December I did three shoots in as many weeks. The first was with old CALLABY, the rich manufacturer,
who's turned sportsman late in life. I thought he'd like a talk about bimetallism, so I sweated
it up a bit, and started off with a burst as soon as I got a look in. All no go. Nothing would
please him but to talk of birds, and rabbits, and hares, and farming, and crops, and who was
going to be High Sheriff, and all that. So I got a little left at the first go off.

"Next week I shot with BLOSSOM, another new friend, who's come into money lately, after knocking
about all over America the greater part of his life. I tried him with the Chicago Exposition,
and ranching as a business for younger sons; did it delicately, of course, and with any amount
of deference, but he only looked at me blankly, and began talking about the Bank-rate. After
that, I settled with myself I wouldn't talk to any more of them about things that they might
be expected to feel an interest in.

"In the following week I was due at WHICHELLO'S. He's been a perfect lunatic all his life for
music. He got up an orchestra in his nursery, which came to smash because his younger brother
filled all the wind instruments with soap-suds. Later on he was always scraping, or blowing,
or thumping, scooting about from one concert to another, making expeditions to the shrine of
WAGNER as he called it, composing songs, and symphonies, and operas, and Heaven only knows
what besides. He came into the old place in Essex when his brother died, about a year ago,
and this was his first pheasant-shoot. I thought to myself, 'If you're anything like these
other Johnnies, it's no good pulling out the music-stop with you.' On the first morning he
seemed a shade anxious at breakfast, and said he was going to try a new plan of beating his
coverts, which it had given him a lot of trouble to arrange as he wanted. Off we went after
breakfast. We had about half a mile to walk before we got to the first wood, and I kept puzzling
my brains the whole way about this blessed new dodge of beating.

"'Where are the beaters?' I said to WHICHELLO, when we got there, for devil a bit of one did I see.

"'You'll find them out directly,' says WHICHELLO, looking sly and triumphant; 'just you stand
here, and wait. You'll get some shooting, I warrant you;' and, with that, he posted the other
guns at the far end of the covert, told me and another chap we were to walk outside, in line
with the beaters, and walked off. Suddenly he gave a whistle. Then what do you think happened?
I'll give you a hundred guesses, and you won't be on it. Out of a little planting, about fifty
yards off the piece we were to shoot, came marching a troop of rustics, dressed as rustic beaters
usually are, but each of them carrying, in place of the ordinary beater's stick, a musical
instrument of some sort. They were headed by the keeper, who waved a kind of bâton. When they
got to our covert, they arranged themselves in line, and then, on a signal from WHICHELLO,
crash, bang! they struck up the Tannhäuser March, and disappeared into the wood.

