3. The Holme MSS. were never in the possession of Mr. Latham, but if MR. ELLACOMBE will refer
to Dr. Gower's prospectus, reissued by Mr. Latham in 1800, he will find a correct statement
of their having been obtained by Bishop Gastrell for the Earl of Oxford, and "eventually for
the mighty emolument of the public." (p. 40.)

4. These MSS. (being part of the Harleian Collection), are accessible to visitors of the reading
room at the Museum, and extend, in the Harleian Catalogue, from No. 1920. to No. 2180. inclusive.

5. With respect to Cradocks, as connected with Cheshire, Mr. E. will find notice in Ormerod's
Hist. Chesh., iii. 236., of the tomb of Sir John Cradock in Nantwich Church, as lately, and
perhaps now, remaining, and an account of its former state in Chaloner's and Holme's Church
Notes, Harl. MSS. 2151., and in Ordinary of Arms in King's Vale Royall, 1656, arms assigned
to Cradock:--"Argent, on a chevron azure three garbs, or. Partridge (Hist. of Nantwich, 1773)
names him Sir David, and states that the arms were not then discoverable." Platt's later History
quotes Derrick's Letters for naming him Sir Roger.

The pedigree of NEWTON, previously CRADOCK, will be found at length in Lewys Dwnn's Visitation
of Wales (vol. i. p. 145.), published by the late Sir Samuel Meyrick, under the auspices of
the Welsh MSS. Society. It places Newton in Pembrokeshire, and differs in some other respects
from MR. ELLACOMBE'S account. The entry was made in 39 Eliz., 1597, and the close of the pedigree,
translated into English, is as follows:

                  Sir John Newton, Kt.==
      |
      |                          |                          |
  Henry Newton of          2 John Newton            Frances, wife
Hanham, Somersetshire.       of Frusto.                of William
                                                      Lord Cobham.
LANCASTRIENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTIQUITY OF SMOKING.

In Vol. ii., p. 286., an allusion is made by a correspondent to the following verses of the
comic poet Crobylus, in reference to the antiquity of smoking:

  [Greek: A. "Egô de pros ta therma tauth' huperbolêi]
    [Greek: Tous daktulous dêpouthen idaious echô,]
    [Greek: Kai ton larung' hêdista puriô temachiois.]

  [Greek: B. "Kaminos, ouk anthrôpos."]
                      Athen I. p. 5. F.

The two last verses are thus rendered in the passage referred to:

 "And I will sweetly burn my throat with cuttings;
  A chimney, not a man."

Athenæus is describing the fondness of the ancient gourmands for eating their food extremely
hot. As they had no forks, but, like the modern Orientals, carried their food to their mouth
with their fingers, one Pithyllus used gloves in order to avoid burning his fingers. (Ib. I.
p. 6. D.)

In the second line there is a pun upon the word [Greek: idaios] which is explained to mean
"cold"--the allusion being to the Idæan Dactyli. (See Meineke, Fragm. Com. Gr., vol. iv. p.
568. Lobeck, Aglaoph. p. 1181.) The passage is to be translated thus:

A. My fingers are fire-proof against these exceedingly hot morsels, and I delight in burning
my throat with slices of fish.

B. "A furnace, not a man."

In v. 3. [Greek: puriô] is the word properly applied to steaming in a vapour-bath; and [Greek:
temachos] or [Greek: temachôn] is a slice or cutlet of fish. (See Aristoph. Nub. 339.) In v.
4. [Greek: kaminos] must not be rendered "chimney". It is a furnace or oven, and not even a
stove or hearth, as Scott and Liddell remark in v. The ancient Greeks, and probably the Romans
likewise, were unacquainted with chimneys. (See Beckmann, Hist. of Inventions, art. "Chimneys,"
and Smith's Dict. of Greek and Rom. Ant., art. "House".) The meanings of the Latin word caminus
are explained by Beckmann (Ib., vol. i. p. 301. ed. Bohn). The short poem of [Greek: kaminos
ê keramis], attributed to Homer (Epig. 14.), illustrates the meaning of the word [Greek: kaminos].
In these verses it is a furnace used for baking pottery.

Crobylus was not earlier than Olymp. 114. B. C. 324. 295.).

The aphorism, "Antiquitas sæculi juventus mundi," which occurs in the Treatise de Augm. Scient.,
vol. viii. p. 39., and in the Advancement of Learning, vol. ii. p. 46., ed. Montagne, may be
safely attributed to Lord Bacon himself, though it is printed in both passages in the form
of quotation, between inverted commas.

In the Novum Organum, lib. i. aph. 83, the thought appears in this form:

    "De antiquitate autem, opinio quam homines di ipsâ fovent. negligens
    omnino est, et vix verbo ipsi congrua. Mundi enim senium et
    grandævitas pro antiquitate vere habenda sunt; quæ temporibus nostris
    tribui debent, non juniori ætati mundi, qualis apud antiquos fuit. Illa
    enim ætas, respectu nostri, antiqua et major; respectu mundi ipsius,
    nova et minor fuit."

The pointed and aphoristic form of the thought is due to Bacon; the thought itself has, however,
been traced by Dr. Whewell to Giordano Bruno.

    "It is worthy of remark, that a thought which is often quoted from
    Francis Bacon, occurs in Bruno's Cena di Cenere, published in 1584; I
    mean the notion, that the later times are more aged than the earlier.
    In the course of the dialogue, the Pedant, who is one of the
    interlocutors, says, 'In antiquity is wisdom;' to which the
    philosophical character replies, 'If you knew what you were talking
    about, you would see that your principle leads to the opposite result
    of that which you wish to infer; I mean, that we are older and have
    lived longer than our predecessors.' He then proceeds to apply this, by
    tracing the course of astronomy through the earlier astronomers up to
    Copernicus."--Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, vol. ii. p. 361.

The Advancement of Learning was published in 1605, twenty-one years after the Treatise of Bruno.
Mr. Hallam (History of Europe, vol. iv. p. 92.) treats the thought as the original property
of Bacon; and although the first trace of it is to be found in Bruno, there is no improbability
in supposing that it occurred independently to Bacon about the same time.

L.

Bacon's Advancement in Learning (Vol. ii., p. 396.).--The writer in "NOTES AND QUERIES" speaks
of the English text as being original, and the Latin a version of Lord Bacon's Instauratio
Magna; is he not mistaken? In reality there were two originals of that work, as we learn from
Mallet's account prefixed to the folio edition of Bacon's works in 4 vols. London, 1740, p.
xvii. et seq. (vol. first). The first edition was in English, London, 1605, and is to be found
in the Bodleian. The Latin, published in 1623, is said by Mallet to be the work of Bacon himself,
with the assistance of some friends, after he had enlarged and corrected the original; it is
from this that Wats' version is made, which is very exact and faithful to its original. The
title-page is engraved on copper by Marshall, with this inscription:

    "INSTAVR. MAG. P. I. OF THE ADVANCEMENT AND PROFICIENCE OF LEARNING or
    the PARTITIONS OF SCIENCES, I[=X] Bookes, Written in Latin by the Most
    Eminent, Illustrious, and Famous LORD FRANCIS BACON, Baron of Verulam,
    Vicont St. Alban, Counsilour of Estate, and Lord Chancellor of England,
    Interpreted by GILBERT WATS, OXFORD: Printed by Leon. Lichfield,
    Printer to the Vniversity, for Rob. Young and Ed. Forrell,
    CI[C*]I[C*]CXL."

Wats' version is the more exact of the two.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALBEMARLE, TITLE OF.

(Vol. ii., p. 442.).

In reply to the question of J., I send you some particulars about Aumerle or Albemarle.

The first Earl of this place, which is the name of a small town or territory in Normandy, was
Otho, descended from the Earls of Champagne, and nearly related to William the Conqueror, to
whom he fled for protection, having killed a great person in that country, and obtained this
earldom and the Isle of Holderness, in Yorkshire, for his maintenance. The title remained in
the heirs of Otho till the death of William, eighth Earl of Albemarle, 44th Henry III., when
it reverted to the Crown, with the lordship of Holderness, and in the 9th of Richard II. he
granted them to Thomas of Woodstock, summoned to parliament as "Thomas, Duke of Albemarle,
the king's loving uncle."

Without enumerating the different persons upon whom our kings subsequently conferred this title
as often as it became extinct or vacant, it will be sufficient for our purpose to show, that
at the Restoration the dukedom of Albemarle was given to General Monk, who, according to Banks
(D. and E. Peerage, vol. iii. p. 37.), had a certain degree of hereditary pretension to the
name {467} by which he was ennobled, inasmuch as he was descended from Margaret, eldest daughter
and co-heir of Richard Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick and Albemarle; but this is not satisfactorily
made out in Banks' table. At all events, the dukedom became again extinct on the death of Christopher
Monk, the second Duke of Albemarle, in 1688, S.P.; but the name was once more revived in 1695-6,
by William III., in favour of Arnold Joort Van Keppel, Lord of Voorst, who had attended the
king in several campaigns, and was his Master of the Robes, and on the 10th of February in
that year created "Earl of Albemarle in Normandy;" the title having been doubtless selected
as one so frequently enjoyed by persons of the highest consideration, and not in any way resting
upon an hereditary claim.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Cromwell Poisoned (Vol. ii., p. 393.).--Your correspondent P. T. queries if there be any other
statement than that which he adduces respecting Cromwell having been poisoned. I would refer
him to the Athenæ Oxoniensis of Anthony à Wood, vol. ii. p. 303.,[2] in which it is stated
that Dr. George Bate's friends gave him credit for having given a baneful dose to the Protector,
to ingratiate himself with Charles II. Amidst all the mutations of those changeful times, and
whether Charles I., Cromwell, or Charles II. were in the ascendant, Dr. George Bate always
contrived to be the chief state physician. In Whitelock's Memorials of the English Affairs
(1732), p. 494, it appears that the Parliament, in 1651, ordered Dr. Bate to go into Scotland
to attend the General (Cromwell), and to take care of his health; he being his usual physician
in London, and well esteemed by him. He wrote a work styled Elenchus Motuum nuperorum in Angliâ.
This was severely scrutinised in another, entitled Elenchus Elenchi; sive Animadversiones in
Georgii Batei, Cromwelli Paricidæ, aliquando Protomedici, Elenchi Motuum nuperorum in Angliâ.
Autore Robt. Pugh; Parisiis, 1664.

Dr. Bate, who died 19th April, 1669, was buried at Kingston upon Thames.

§ N.

Nov. 9. 1850.

[Footnote 2: I allude to the old edition, 2 vols. Lond. 1691-2, folio; not having any other
at hand.]

"Never did Cardinal bring Good to England" (Vol. ii., pp. 424, 450.).--BERUCHINO is right in
his suggestion that Dr. Lingard may accidentally have omitted a reference to the place from
whence he really derived this saying; for Hall tells us in his Chronicle (ed. 1809, p. 758.), that

    "Charles, Duke of Suffolke, seeing the delay, gave a great clappe on
    the table with his hande and said, 'By the masse, now I see that the
    olde saied sawe is true, that there was never Legatt nor Cardinall
    that did good in Englande.'"

Whether Charles Brandon was a reader of Piers Ploughman, I know not; but the following passage
from that poem proves he was giving expression to a feeling which had long been popular in
this country. I quote from Mr. Wright's edition, published by Pickering:

 "I knew nevere Cardinal
  That he ne cam fra the Pope;
  And we clerkes, whan thei come,
  For hir comunes paieth,
  For hir pelure and hir palfreyes mete,
  And pilours that hem folweth.

 "The comune clamat cotidie
  Ech a man til oother,
  The contree is the corseder
  That Cardinals comme inne;
  And ther thei ligge and lenge moost,
  Lecherie there regneth."

                  L. 13789--13800.

Mr. Wright observes in a note upon this passage, that "the contributions levied upon the clergy
for the support of the Pope's messengers and agents was a frequent subject of complaint in
the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries."

THETAS.

Gloves not worn in the Presence of Royalty (Vol. i., p. 366.).--

    "This week the Lord Coke, with his gloves on, touched and kissed the
    King's hand; but whether to be confirmed a counsellor, or cashiered, I
    cannot yet learn."--Letter in Court and Times of Charles I., dated
    April, 1625.

W. DN.

Nonjurors' Oratories in London (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--

    "Nothing, my lord, appears so dreadful to me, as the account I have of
    the barefaced impudence of your Jacobite congregations in London. The
    marching of the King's forces to and fro through the most factious
    parts of the kingdom, must (in time) put an end to our little country
    squabbles; but your fifty churches of nonjurors could never be thus
    daring, were they not sure of the protection of some high
    ally."--Letter from Bishop Nicholson to Archbishop Wake, dated Rose,
    Sept. 20. 1716. in Ellis's Letters, Series iii.

W. DN.

"Filthy Gingran" (Vol. ii., p. 335).--I have found the following clue to the solution of my
Query on this point:--

    "Gingroen (gin-croen) s. f., the toad-flax, a kind of stinking
    mushroom."--Owen's Welsh Dictionary.

There is, however, some mistake (a high authority informs me) in the explanation given in the
dictionary. Toad-flax is certainly not a "mushroom," neither does it "stink." Is the Welsh
word applied to both equivocally as distinct {468} objects? In Withering's Arrangement of British
Plants, 7th edit., vol. iii., p. 734., 1830, the Welsh name of Antirrhinum Sinaria, or common
yellow toad-flax, is stated to be Gingroen fechan.

I must still invite further explanation.

A. T.

Michael Scott (Vol. ii., p. 120.).--A correspondent wishes to know what works of Michael Scott's
have ever been printed. In John Chapman's Catalogue for June, 1850, I see advertised

 "Michael Scott's Physionomia, Venet. 1532.
  -------- Chyromantia del Tricasso da Ceresari, 2 vols. in 1, 1532."

H. A. B.

The Widow of the Wood (Vol. ii., p. 406.).--Your correspondent is referred to Lowndes's Bibliographical
Manual, vol. iii. p. 1868, for some mention of this work. It is there stated that the late
eminent conveyancer, Francis Hargreave, the step-son of the lady, "bought up and destroyed
every copy of this work that he could procure."

J. H. M.

Bath.

The Widow of the Wood, 1775, 12mo., pp. vi. and 208. (Inquired after at Vol. ii, p. 406.)--I
have this book. It appears to be a Narrative of Complaint of the widow of "John Wh--y, Esq.,"
of "Great H-y-w--d" (Great Heywood, near Stafford), against Sir W--m W--y in the same neighbourhood.

THOMAS KERSLAKE.

Bristol.

Modum Promissionis (Vol. ii., pp 279. 347.).--Your correspondent C. H. has not solved my difficulty
as to modum promissionis. In the hope that he, or others, will still kindly endeavour to do
so, I subjoin the context in which it stands:--

    "Noluit Jethro legem posteris figere: sed, quoad quietam stationem
    adeptus esset populus, remedium præsentibus incommodis, atque (ut vulgo
    loquitur) modum promissionis ostendit."

An old French translation renders it:--

    "Il n'a point donc voulu mettre loy pour la posterité: mais seulement
    remedier aux incommoditez presentes par maniére de provision (comme
    on dit)," &c.

The general import of the passage is, that Jethro's counsel to Moses, as to the appointment
of rulers over the people, was not intended to apply to Canaan, but only to their sojourn in
the wilderness.

I do not see how the "formula professionis monasticæ" helps us; unless, indeed, "modus promissionis"
were a kind of temporary and conditional vow, which does not appear in Ducange.

C. W. B.

End of Easter (Vol. ii., p. 9).--Should not the end of Easter be considered its octave--Low Sunday?

J. W. H.

First Earl of Roscommon (Vol. ii., p. 325.).--There was, in the burying-ground of Kilkenny-West,
some thirty-five years or more ago, an old tombstone belonging to the Dillon Family, on which
was traced the genealogy of the Roscommon branch from one of the sons of the first earl (if
I remember right, the third or fourth), down to a Thomas, who had, I have heard my father say,
a son called Garrett, who had issue two sons, Patrick and Thomas. Patrick was always, in that
part of the country, considered the heir to this title. Patrick and Thomas had issue, (living
or dead I know not), but should imagine dead; as, had they been living, they would no doubt
have come forward when the late earl claimed the title, as he claimed it as being descended
from the youngest son of the first earl, whereas Patrick and Thomas were certainly the descendants
of one of the elder sons of the first earl; and therefore, had the sons of either Patrick or
Thomas come forward, it would no doubt have been decided in their favour. On this account,
it was several years before the late earl's claim was fully confirmed, as it was thought that
some of the descendants of the elder branches might come forward. This would have attracted
my attention earlier had I not been abroad.

AN HIBERNIAN.

Mivart's Hotel, London.

Dryden's "Absolom and Achitophel" (Vol. ii. p. 423.).--The passage in Absolom and Achitophel
is taken from Fuller's Profane State, speaking of Alva:

    "He was one of a lean body and visage, as if his eager soul, biting for
    anger at the clog of his body, desired to fret a passage through it;"

and from Carew, p. 71.,

 "The purest soul that ere was sent
  Into a clayey tenement."

C. B.

Cabalistic Author (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--"W. C. or twice five hundred." The meaning is very
evident. V. signifies five, and C. one hundred. W. is two V's, therefore W. C. twice five hundred.

TERRA MARTIS.

\[ [Another correspondent points out that W. C., the author, may probably be William Cooper
the printer.] \]

Twickenham--Did Elizabeth visit Bacon there? (Vol. ii., p. 408.).--

    "At Twickenham Park, either in this [1592] or the following year,
    through the immediate interest of his steady patron, the Earl of Essex,
    Mr. Francis Bacon had the honour of entertaining Queen Elizabeth, where
    he presented her with the sonnet in honour of that generous
    nobleman."--Nichols's Progresses of Queen Eliz., 2d ed. iii. p. 190.

J. I. D.

Legend of a Saint and Crozier (Vol. ii., p. 267.)--The incident is related of St. Patrick and
one of the kings of Cashel, and formed the subject of the first picture exhibited by James
Barry. In the {469} Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficulties, London, 1831, (art. Barry, p.
159.) it is stated that:

    "The picture was painted in his twentieth or twenty-first year, on the
    baptism by St. Patrick of one of the kings of Cashel, who stands
    unmoved while the ceremony is performed, amidst a crowd of wondering
    spectators; although the saint, in setting down his crosier, has,
    without perceiving it, struck its iron point through the royal foot."

ESTE.

