[Lewis, April 18, 1806] Friday April 18th 1806. Late last evening we were visited by the principal
cheif of Chilluckkittaquaws and 12 of his nation they remained with us untill 9 OC. when they
all departed except the Cheif and two others who slept at my feet. we loaded our vessels and
set out after an early breakfast this morning. we gave the indians a passage to the N. shore
on which they reside and pursued our rout to the foot of the first rapid at the distance of
4 ms. here we found it necessary to unload the perogues and canoes and make a portage of 70
paces over a rock; we then drew our vessels up by a cord and the assistance of setingpoles.
from hence we proceeded to the bason below the long narrows 5 ms. further and landed on the
Lard. side at 1/2 after 3. the Cheif when he left me this morning promised to bring some horses
to barter with me at the bason.- the long narrows are much more formidable than they were when
we decended them last fall there would be no possibility of passind either up or down them
in any vessel.- after unloading the canoes and arranging the camp I walked up to the Skillute
Village and jouined Capt. he had procured four horses only for which a high price had been
given, at least more than double that which we had formerly given for those which we purchased
from the Shoshonees and the first band of Flatheads. they have a great abundance of horses
but will not dispose of them. we determined to make the portage to the head of the long narrows
with our baggage and five small canoes. the 2 perogues we could take no further and therefore
cut them up for fuel. in the evening Capt. C. and myself returned to the camp at the bason
and left Drewyer and three others with the merchandize at the village, three parsels of which
had been laid by at the request of individuals who promised to give us horses for them in the
morning.- I shot my airgun in the presents of the natives at the village which excited great
astonishment.

[Clark, April 18, 1806] April 18th 1806 early this morning I was awoke by a Indian from the
nieghbourhood of our horses, he had he arived here yesterday & this morning found a Small bag
of powder and ball which had been left when we exposed our goods yesterday and brought it to
me. I had a fire made out and exposed the articles &c. having increased the articles for each
horse, and Sent out 2 men to hunt the horses bought yesterday. after Colecting them Sent Shabono
and Frazer with the 4 I had purchased down to Capt Lewis. and was tanterlised with the expectation
of purchaseing more imediately. Great numbers of the Indians from the falls and both above
and below. none of them appeared anxious to part with their horses but told me that Several
were Comeing from the plains about 1 or 2 P M. and laid by 2 parcels of merchindize and told
me that they had Sent for their horses. among other Tribes was those of the Skad-datts who
bantered the Skillutes to play with them at a Singular Kind of game which was Soon Made up
and 9 of aside Sat down they were Some time making up their bets of Beeds, brass thimbles or
tubes robes &c. &c. when the bets were all made up the nine on each Side took opposides faceing
each other at the distance of about 12 feet. in front of each party was placed a long pole
on which they Struck with a Stick and Sung. they made use of 2 Small pices of bone in this
form and Size a bone was given to 2 men of the Same party who changed it from hand to hand
with great dexterity one hand above the other looking down, and when he was ready for the opposit
party to guess he Seperated his hands Swinging them around the breast looking at the opposit
party who waved their hand to the Side the bone was in. if the opposit party guessed the hand
of each man the bone was given to them. if neither it was nothing. if they guessed one which
they might single out if they pleased they recived his bone, and lost on the other as they
hapened to fail in guessing the also lose one if they fail guessing both The game is plaid
at different numbers & each party has 5 sticks. Several of those games were played to day in
which the Skillute won, indeed the won all the beeds and Som robes of the Skad datts which
they  one other game which they also played  2 by men with 4 Sticks. 2 black & 2 White under
a kind of hat made of bark. as this is a very intrecut game I cannot describe it: the one who
holds the Sticks places them in different positions, and the opposit party, guess the position
of the black Sticks by a motion of either one or both of the hands. each man has 4 Sticks.
this as also the other is accompanied with a kind of Song. This hat is about 12 inches diamuter
and the Sticks about 5 inches long-- at 3 P M Sergt Ordway arived with 3 men from Capt Lewis
with elk skins and Some fiew articles Such as a Coat & robes. I had 3 dogs purchased, Soon
after Capt. Lewis Came up with J. Fields he had assended the river with much dificuelty to
the bason 2 Miles below. I left Drewyer, Warner, Shannon & Goodrich with the articles and went
down with Capt Lewis to the bason, Cut up 2 of our canoes for fire wood no horses more maney
nations resort here for trade

[Clark, April 18, 1806] Friday 18th April 1806 Early this Morning I was awoke by an indian
man of the Chopunnish Nation who informed me that he lived in the neighbourhood of our horses.
this man delivered me a bag of powder and ball which he had picked up this morning at the place
the goods were exposed yesterday I had a fire made of Some poles purchased of the nativs at
a Short distance from the houses and the articles exposed as yesterday. Collected the 4 horses
purchased yesterday and Sent Frazier and Shabono with them to the bason where I expected they
would meet Cap L-s and Commence the portage of the baggage on those horses. about 10 A.M. the
Indians Came down from the Eneesher Villages and I expected would take the articles which they
had laid by yesterday. but to my estonishment not one would make the exchange to day-. two
other parcels of good were laid by and the horses promised at 2 P.M. I payed but little attention
to this bargain however Suffered the bundles to lye. I dressed the Sores of the principal Chief
gave Some Small things to his children and promised the Chief Some Medicine for to Cure his
Sores. his wife who I found to be a Sulky Bitch and was Somewhat efflicted with pains in her
back. this I thought a good oppertunity to get her on my Side giveing here Something for her
back. I rubed a little Camphere on her temples and back, and applyed worm flannel to her back
which She thought had nearly restored her to her former feelings. this I thought a favourable
time to trade with the Chief who had more horses than all the nation besides. I accordingly
made him an offer which he excepted and Sold me two horses. Great numbers of Indians from defferent
derections visited me at this place to day, none of them appeared willing to part with their
horses, but told me that Several were Comeing from the plains this evening. among other Nations
who visit this place for the purpose of trade is the Skad-datt's. those people bantered the
Skillutes to play at a Singular kind of game. in the Course of the day the Skillutes won all
their beeds Skins arrows &c. This game was Composed of 9 men on a Side. they Set down opposit
to each other at the distance of about 10 feet. in front of each party a long pole was placed
on which they Struck with a Small Stick to the time of their Songs. after the bets were made
up which was nearly half an hour after they Set down, two round bones was producd about the
Size of a mans little finger or Something Smaller and 21/4 inches in length. which they held
in their hand Changeing it from one hand to the other with great dexterity. 2 men on the Same
Side performed this part, and when they had the bone in the hand they wished, they looked at
their advosarys Swinging arms around their Sholders for their advosary Guess which they pirformed
by the motion the hand either to the right or left. if the opposit party guessed the hand of
both of the men who had the bone, the bones were given to them. if neither the bones was retained
and nothing Counted. if they guessed one and not the other, one bone was dilivered up and the
party possessing the other bone Counted one. and one for every time the advosary miss guessed
untill they guessed the hand in which the bone was in-in this game each party has 5 Sticks.
and one Side wins all the Sticks, once twice or thrice as the game may be Set. I observed another
game which those people also play and is played by 2 persons with 4 Sticks about the Size of
a mans finger and about 7 inches in length. two of those Sticks are black and the other 2 White
and Something larger than the black ones. those Sticks they place in defferent positions which
they perform under a kind of trencher made of bark round and about 14 inches diamieter. this
is a very intricate game and I cannot Sufficiently understand to discribe it. the man who is
in possession of the Sticks &c places them in defferent positions, and the opposit party tels
the position of the black Sticks by a motion of either or both of his hands &c. this game is
Counted in the Same way as the one before mentioned. all their games are accompanied with Songs
and time. at 3 P. M Sergt. Ordway & three men arived from Cap Lewis they brought with them
Several Elk Skins, two of my Coats and 4 robes of the party to add to the Stores I had with
me for the purchase of horses. Sgt. O. informed me that Cap L. had arived with all the Canoes
into the bason 2 miles below and wished Some dogs to eate. I had 3 dogs purchased and Sent
down. at 5 P.M. Capt. Lewis Came up. he informed me that he had the river to the bason with
much difecuelty and danger, haveing made one portage. as I had not Slept but very little for
the two nights past on account of mice & virmen with which those indian houses abounded, and
haveing no blanket with me, and the means of keeping a fire Sufficent to keep me worm out was
too Expensive I deturmined to proceed with Capt L. down to Camp at the bason. I left the Articles
of Merchendize &c. with Drewyer, Werner, Shannon & Goodrich untill the morning-- at the bason
we Cut up two of our Canoes for fire wood verry much to the Sagreen of the nativs not with
standing they would give us nothing for them. In my absence Several Inds. visited Capt. Lewis
at his camp among others was the great Cheif of the Chilluckkitquaw who Continued with him
untill he left Rock fort Camp. Capt L. had 12 pack Saddles Completed and Strings prepared of
the Elk skins for Lashing the loads he also kept out all the hunters who killed just deer enough
for the party with him to Subsist on. The Cheif who had Visited Capt Lewis promised him that
he would bring Some horses to the bason and trade with him. but he was not as good as his word.
Capt Lewis gave a large Kittle for a horse which was offered to him at the bason this evening.

[Lewis, April 19, 1806] Saturday Aprl. 19th 1806. This morning early we had our small canoes
drawn out, and employed all hands in transporting our baggage on their backs and by means of
the four pack horses, over the portage. This labour we had accomplished by 3 P.M. and established
our camp a little above the present Skil-lute village which has been removed a few hundred
yards lower down the river than when we passed them last fall and like others below have the
floors of their summer dwellings on the surface of the earth instead of those cellars in which
they resided when we passed them. there was great joy with the natives last night in consequence
of the arrival of the salmon; one of those fish was caught; this was the harbinger of good
news to them. they informed us that these fish would arrive in great quantities in the course
of about 5 days. this fish was dressed and being divided into small peices was given to each
child in the village. this custom is founded in a supersticious opinon that it will hasten
the arrival of the salmon. with much difficulty we obtained four other horses from the Indians
today, we wer obliged to dispence with two of our kettles in order to acquire those. we have
now only one small kettle to a mess of 8 men. in the evening Capt. Clark set out with four
men to the Enesher village at the grand falls in order to make a further attempt to procure
horses. these people are very faithless in their contracts. they frequently receive the merchandize
in exchange for their horses and after some hours insist on some additional article being given
them or revoke the exchange. they have pilfered several small articles from us this evening.-
I directed the horses to be hubbled & suffered to graize at a little distance from our camp
under the immediate eye of the men who had them in charge. one of the men Willard was negligent
in his attention to his horse and suffered it to ramble off; it was not to be found when I
ordered the others to be brought up and confined to the picquits. this in addition to the other
difficulties under which I laboured was truly provoking. I repremanded him more severely for
this peice of negligence than had been usual with me. I had the remaining horses well secured
by picquits; they were extreemly wrestless and it required the attention of the whole guard
through the night to retain them notwithstanding they were bubbled and picquted. they frequently
throwed themselves by the ropes by which they were confined. all except one were stone horse
for the people in this neighbourhood do not understand the art of gelding them, and this is
a season at which they are most vicious. many of the natives remained about our camp all night.

[Clark, April 19, 1806] April 19th 1806 this morning early Some rain had the Small Canoes hauled
out to dry every man Capable of Carrying a load Comencd the portage and by 5 P. M had every
part of our baggage and canoes across the portage. I then took Sgt. Pryor, G. Shannon & Crusat
& Labiech and went up to the falls at which place I arivd. about 8 P.M. in the Course of this
day I purchased 4 horses at the town & Capt Lewis purchased one. the nativs finding that we
were about to proceed on by water Sold us those fiew horses for which we were Compd. to pay
them emence prices and the horses were indefferent. Several Showers of rain this day. description
of those people &c narrows bad

[Clark, April 19, 1806] Saturday 19th April 1806. I left Capt L. at the bason and proceeded
to the village early this morning with a view to recive the horses which were promised to be
brought this morning for articles laid by last evining. in the Course of this day I purchased
four horses at the Village, and Capt Lewis one at the bason before he left it. after the baggage
was all Safely landed above the portage, all hands brought over the Canoes at 2 lodes which
was accomplished by 5 P.M. as we had not a Sufficiency of horses to transport our baggage we
agreed that I should proceed on to the Enesher villages at the great falls of the Columbia
and if possible purchase as maney horses as would transport the baggage from that place, and
rid us of the trouble and dificuelty of takeing our Canoes further. I set out with Serjt Pryor,
Geo Shannon Peter Crusat & Labiech at half past 5 P.M. for the Enesher Village at which place
I arrived at 8 P.M. Several Showers of rain in the after part of to day, and the S W wind very
high. there was great joy with the nativs last night in consequence of the arrival of the Salmon;
one of those fish was cought, this was the harbenger of good news to them.

The long narrows are much more formadable than they were when we decended them last fall, there
would be no possibility of passing either up or down them in any vessle at this time.

I entered the largest house of the Eneeshers village in which I found all the enhabitents in
bead. they rose and made a light of Straw, they haveing no wood to burn. many men Collected.
we Smoked and I informed them that I had come to purchase a fiew horses of them. they promused
to Sell me Some in the morning.

[Lewis, April 20, 1806] Sunday April 20th 1806. some frost this morning. The Enesher an Skillutes
are much better clad than they were last fall, there men have generally legings mockersons
and large robes; many of them wear shirts of the same form with those of the Shoshone Chopunnish
&c highly ornamented with porcupine quills. the dress of their women differs very little from
those of the great rapids and above. their children frequently wear robes of the large grey
squirrel skins, those of the men and women are principally deer skins, some wolf, elk, bighorn
and buffaloe; the latter they procure from the nations who sometimes visit the Missouri. indeed
a considerable poportion of their wearing apparel is purchased from their neighbours to the
N. W. in exchange for pounded fish copper and beads. at present the principal village of the
Eneshur is below the falls on the N. side of the river. one other village is above the falls
on the S. side and another a few miles above on the N. side. the first consists of 19, the
2cd of 11, and the 3rd of 5 lodges. their houses like those of the Skillutes have their floors
on the surface of the ground, but are formed of sticks and covered with mats and straw. they
are large and contain usually several families each for fuel they use straw, small willows
and the southern wood. they use the silk grass in manufacturing their fishing nets and bags,
the bear grass and cedar bark are employed in forming a variety of articles. they are poor,
dirty, proud, haughty, inhospitable, parsimonious and faithless in every rispect, nothing but
our numbers I beleive prevents their attempting to murder us at this moment.

This morning I was informed that the natives had pilfered six tommahawks and a knife from the
party in the course of the last night. I spoke to the cheif on this subject. he appeared angry
with his people and addressed them but the property was not restored. one horse which I had
purchased and paid for yesterday and which could not be found when I ordered the horses into
close confinement yesterday I was now informed had been gambled away by the rascal who had
sold it to me and had been taken away by a man of another nation. I therefore took the goods
back from this fellow. I purchased a gun from the cheif for which I gave him 2 Elkskins. in
the course of the day I obtained two other indifferent horses for which I gave an extravigant
price. I found that I should get no more horses and therefore resolved to proceed tomorrow
morning with those which I had and to convey the baggage in two small canoes that the horses
could not carry. for this purpose I had a load made up for seven horses, the eighth Bratton
was compelled to ride as he was yet unable to walk. I barted my Elkskins old irons and 2 canoes
for beads. one of the canoes for which they would give us but little I had cut up for fuel.
These people have yet a large quantity of dryed fish on hand yet they will not let us have
any but for an exorbitant price. we purchased two dogs and some shappellel from them. I had
the horses graized untill evening and then picquited and bubbled within the limits of our camp.
I ordered the indians from our camp this evening and informed them that if I caught them attempting
to perloin any article from us I would beat them severely. they went off in reather a bad humour
and I directed the party to examine their arms and be on their guard. they stole two spoons
from us in the course of the day. The Scaddals, Squan-nan-os, Shan-wah-purrs and Shallattas
reside to the N. W. of these people, depend on hunting deer and Elk and trade with these people
for ther pounded fish.

[Clark, April 20, 1806] April 20th 1806 This morning very Cold hills covered with Snow. I Showed
the nativs what I had to give for their horses and attempted to purchase them. they informed
me that they would not Sell any horses to me, that their horses were at a long ways off and
they would not trade them. my offer was a blue robe, Callico Shirt, a handkerchef, 5 parcels
of paint a Knife, a wampom moon 4 braces of ribin, a pice of Brass and about 6 braces of yellow
heeds; and to that amount for what I had I also offered my large blue blanket for one, my Coat
Sword & Plume none of which Seem to entice those people to give horses if they had any. they
Set in their huts which is of mats Supported on poles without fire. at night when they wish
a light they burn dry Straw & Some fiew Small dry willows. they Speak defferent from those
below, have but little to eate. Some roots & Dryed fish is to be found in their houses. I am
half frozed at this inhospitable Village which is moved from its position above the falls to
one below and Contains 19 large houses, a village is also established on the other Side imedeately
above the falls. all the natives who was established above the Falls for Some distance has
removed Those people are much better dressed than they were at the time we went down the river.
They have all new, Deer, Elk, Ibex Goat & wolf Skin robes, their Children also the large squirel
Skin robes, maney of them have Legins and mockersons, all of which they precure of the Indians
at a distance in exchange for their pounded fish & Beeds, they also purchase Silk grass, of
which they make their nets & Sales for takeing fish they also purchase Bear grass and maney
other things for their fish. those people gave me roots and berries prepared in different ways
for which I gave some Small articles in return.-Great numbers of Skiming knets on their houses.
Those people are Pore and Kind durty & indolt. They ware their hair loose flowing the men cut
in the foward which the Skilloots do not &c. &c.

I could not precure a Single horse of those people, dureing this day at any price, they offered
me 2 for 2 kittles of which we Could not spear. I used every artifice decent & even false Statements
to enduce those pore devils to Sell me horses. in the evening two different men offered to
Sell me three horses which they informed me was a little distance off and they would bring
them imediately. those two persons as I found went imediately off up the river to their tribe
without any intention to find or Sell their horses. a little before Sunset 3 men arived from
Some distance above and informed me that they Came to See me. at Sunset finding no probability
of Capt Lewis arival, packed up the articles and took them into the lodge in which I lay last
night. Great numbers of those people geathered around me to Smoke. I gave them 2 pipes and
lay down in the back part of the house with Sgt. P. & the men with our arms in a Situation
as to be ready in case of any alarm. those pore people appear entirely harmless- I purchased
a dog and Some wood with a little pounded fish and Chappaless. made a fire on the rocks and
Cooked the dogs on which the men breckfast & Dined. wind hard all day cold from N W.

[Clark, April 20, 1806] Sunday 20th April 1806 a very cold morning the western mountains Covered
with Snow I Shewed the Eneshers the articles I had to give for their horses. they without hezitation
informed me that they would not Sell me any for the articles I had, if I would give them Kitties
they would let me have horses, and not without. that their horses were at a long ways off in
the planes and they would not Send for them &c. my offer was a blue robe, a Calleco Shirt,
a Silk handkerchief, 5 parcels of paint, a knife, a Wampom moon, 8 yards of ribon, Several
pieces of Brass, a mockerson awl and 6 braces of yellow beeds; and to that amount for each
horse which is more than double what we gave either the Sohsohne or first flat heads we met
with on Clarks river I also offered my large blue blanket, my Coat Sword & plume none of which
Seamed to entice those people to Sell their horses. not with standing every exertion not a
Single horse Could be precured of those people in the Course of the day. Those people are much
better Clad than they were last fall, their men have generally legins mockersons and large
robes. maney of them ware Shirts of the Same form of those of the Chopunnish and Shoshone highly
ornimented with porcupine quills. the dress of their winen differs verry little from those
above the great rapids. their Children have Small robes of the Squirel Skins. those of the
men & women are principally deer, Some elk, wolf, Ibix & buffalow which they precure from distant
nations who purchase their Pounded fish in exchange for those robes & Beeds. The principal
village of the Enesher nation is imedeately below the falls on the N. Side. one other village
of the Same nation above the falls on the opposit Side and one other a few miles above on the
North Side.- The Houses of those people like the Skillutes have the flores of their Summer
dwelling on the Surface of the earth in Sted of those Sellers in which they resided when we
passed them last fall. those houses are Covered with mats and Straw are large and Contain Several
families each. I counted 19 at this Village & 11 on the opposit Side. those people are pore
durty haughty. they burn Straw and Small willows. have but little to eate and deer with what
they have. they precure the Silk grass of which they make their nets, the bear grass for makeing
their mats and Several other necessary of the Indians of the following nations who trade with
them as also the Skillutes for their pounded fish. Viz. Those people are great jokies and deciptfull
in trade.

at Sunset finding that Capt Lewis would not arrive this evening as I expected, I packed up
all the articles which I had exposed, at a Situation I had pitched on to Encamp, and at which
place we had bought as maney fishing poles as made a fire to Cook a dog which I had purchased
for the men to eate, and returned to the lodge which I had Slept in last night. great number
gathered around me to Smoke, I gave them two pipes, and then lay my self down with the men
to Sleep, haveing our merchendize under our heads and guns &c in our arms, as we always have
in Similar Situations

[Lewis, April 21, 1806] Monday April 21st 1806. Notwithstanding all the precautions I had taken
with rispect to the horses one of them had broken his cord of 5 strands of Elkskin and had
gone off spanseled. I sent several men in surch of the horse with orders to return at 10 A.M.
with or without the horse being determined to remain no longer with these villains. they stole
another tomahawk from us this morning I surched many of them but could not find it. I ordered
all the spare poles, paddles and the ballance of our canoe put on the fire as the morning was
cold and also that not a particle should be left for the benefit of the indians. I detected
a fellow in stealing an iron socket of a canoe pole and gave him several severe blows and mad
the men kick him out of camp. I now informed the indians that I would shoot the first of them
that attempted to steal an article from us. that we were not affraid to fight them, that I
had it in my power at that moment to kill them all and set fire to their houses, but it was
not my wish to treat them with severity provided they would let my property alone. that I would
take their horses if I could find out the persons who had stolen the tommahawks, but that I
had reather loose the property altogether than take the hose of an inosent person. the chiefs
were present hung their heads and said nothing. at 9 A.M. Windsor returned with the lost horse,
the others who were in surch of the horse soon after returned also. the Indian who promised
to accompany me as far as the Chopunnish country produced me two horses one of which he politely
gave me the liberty of packing. we took breakfast and departed a few minutes after 10 OClock.
having nine horses loaded and one which Bratton rode not being able as yet to march; the two
canoes I had dispatched early this morning. at 1 P.M. I arrived at the Enesher Village where
I found Capt Clark and party; he had not purchased a single horse. he informed me that these
people were quite as unfriendly as their neighbours the Skillutes, and that he had subsisted
since he left me on a couple of platters of pounded roots and fish which an old man had the
politeness to offer him. his party fared much better on dogs which he purchased from those
people. the man resided here from whom I had purchased the horse which ran off from me yesterday.
I had given him a large kettle and a knife in exchange for that horse which I informed him
should be taken from him unles he produced me the lost horse or one of equal value in his stead,
the latter he prefered and produced me a very good horse which I very cheerfully received.
we soon made the portage with our canoes and baggage and halted about 1/2 a mile above the
Village where we graized our horses and took dinner on some dogs which we purchased of these
people. after dinner we proceeded on about four miles to a village of 9 mat lodges of the Enesher
a little below the entrance of Clark's river and encamped; one of the canoes joined us the
other not observing us halt continued on. we obtained two dogs and a small quantity of fuel
of these people for which we were obliged to give a higher price than usual. our guide continued
with us, he appears to be an honest sincere fellow. he tells us that the indians a little above
will treat us with much more hospitality than those we are now with. we purchased another horse
this evening but his back is in such a horid state that we can put but little on him; we obtained
him for a trifle, at least for articles which might be procured in the U States for 10 shillings
Virga Cory.- we took the precaution of piquting and spanseling our horses this evening near
our camp.

[Clark, April 21, 1806] April 21st 1806 a fair Cold morning. I find it useless to offer any
articles or attempt to trade at this village and therefore deturmine to  before I rose the
house was Crouded with Indians to Smoke I gave them none. they are well Supplied with Straw
& bark bags ready to hold their pounded fish. at 12 oClock the advance of the party from below
arived and Soon after the Canoes all things were taken above the falls & 2 Canoes, turned out
the horss and Cooked & Eat 2 dogs which we purchased of the nativs, purchased one horse for
Which we are to give a Kittle which was given by us to a man for a horse 3 days past &c. the
horse was either taken or Strayed off. The Chief from below Came up and appeared Concerned
for what had been done at his Village (See Journal)

a 4 P M loaded up & Set out the Canoes also proceed on about 3 miles opposit to the Mouth of
Clarks river, and an Indian man who has attached himself to us and who has lent us a horse
to pack & lives near the Rocky mountains. he told us that as the day was far Spent we had better
Camp at a village of 9 Lodges a little off the road opsd. the River CClarks This river has
a great falls above 2 forks on its West Side. we formed a Camp purchased Some wood & 3 dogs
for which we gave pewter buttons which buttons we had made &c. but fiew Indians with us this
evining purchased an old horse and tied up all the horses when we went to bed

Those are the Same people with those below at the falls. See journal for the next day-

Skad data ill looking people reside to the N about 18 or 20 miles they played against the Skillutes
a game they Call  9 of a Side and lost all the beeds & other articles

also a Single game with 2 black & 2 white Sticks under a kind of hat. 2 men played this game
is intricit and each party has 4 pegs to count it

The former game is played with 2 bones or Sticks about the Size of a large quill and 2 inches
long passing from one hand to the other and the adverse party guess. See description before
mentioned. The nations abov at the falls also play this game and bet high

[Clark, April 21, 1806] Monday 21st April 1806 A fair Cold morning I found it useless to make
any further attempts to trade horses with those unfriendly people who only Crouded about me
to view and make their remarks and Smoke, the latter I did not indulge them with to day. at
12 oClock Capt Lewis and party Came up from the Skillutes Village with 9 horses packed and
one which bratten who was yet too weak to walk, rode, and Soon after the two Small Canoes also
loaded with the residue of the baggage which Could not be taken on horses. we had everry thing
imedeately taken above the falls, in the mean time purchased 2 Dogs on which the party dined-
whilst I remained at the Enesher Village I Subsisted on 2 platters of roots, Some pounded fish
and Sun flour Seed pounded which an old man had the politeness to give me. in return for which
I gave him Several Small articles-.

Capt Lewis informed me that imedeately after I left him the nativs began to Steal and had Stolen
Tomahawks of the party, and in the Course of the night had let our horses loose he had burnt
one and Sold 2 of the largest Canoes for beeds, the other 2 brought on. an indian was detected
in Stealing a socket and was kicked out of Camp. Capt L. informed the Indians that the next
man who attempted to steal Should be Shot and thretened them and informed them that he could
kill them in a moment and Set their town on fire if he pleased. but it was not his desire to
hurt them Severly if they would let the property of the party alone. the Chiefs hung their
heads and Said nothing. he lost the horse that was given for a large kittle, and a Chopunnish
man lent a horse to carry a load and accompanied the party- The man who we had reason to believe
had Stolen the horse he had given for the Kittle we thretend a little and he produced a very
good horse in the place of that one which we Chearfully receved.

after dinner we proceeded on about 4 Miles to a Village of 9 Mat Lodges of the Enesher, a little
below the enterance of To war nah hi ooks river and encamped. one of the Canoes joined us,
the other not haveing observed us halt continued on. Currency- we took the precaution of picqueting
and Spancelling our horses this evening near our Camp. the evening Cold and we Could afford
only one fire.

[Lewis, April 22, 1806] Tuesday April 22cd 1806. Last night two of our horses broke loos from
the picquits and straggled off some little distance, the men who had charge of them fortunately
recovered them early. at 7 A.M. we set out having previously sent on our small Canoe with Colter
and Potts. we had not arrived at the top of a hill over which the road leads opposite the village
before Charbono's horse threw his load, and taking fright at the saddle and robe which still
adhered, ran at full speed down the hill, near the village he disengaged himself from the saddle
and robe, an indian hid the robe in his lodge. I sent our guide and one man who was with me
in the rear to assist Charbono in retaking his horse which having done they returned to the
village on the track of the horse in surch of the lost articles they found the saddle but could
see nothing of the robe the indians denyed having seen it; they then continued on the track
of the horse to the place from whence he had set out with the same success. being now confident
that the Indians had taken it I sent the Indian woman on to request Capt. C. to halt the party
and send back some of the men to my assistance being determined either to make the indians
deliver the robe or birn their houses. they have vexed me in such a manner by such repeated
acts of villany that I am quite disposed to treat them with every severyty, their defenseless
state pleads forgivness so far as rispects their lives. with this resolution I returned to
their village which I had just reached as Labuish met me with the robe which he informed me
he found in an Indian lodg hid behind their baggage. I now returned and joined Capt Clark who
was waiting my arrival with the party. the Indian woman had not reached Capt C. untill about
the time I arrived and he returned from a position on the top of a hill not far from where
he had halted the party. from the top of this emmenense Capt. C. had an extensive view of the
country. he observed the range of mountains in which Mount Hood stands to continue nearly south
as far as the eye could reach. he also observed the snow clad top of Mount Jefferson which
boar S. 10 W. Mount Hood from the same point boar S. 30 W. the tops of the range of western
mountains are covered with snow. Capt C. also discovered some timbered country in a Southern
direction from him at no great distance. Clarks river which mouths immediately opposite this
point of view forks at the distance of 18 or 20 miles from hence, the wright hand fork takes
it rise in mount Hood, and the main branch continues it's course to the S. E.

we now made the following regulations as to our future order of march (viz) that Capt. C. &
myself should devide the men who were disencumbered by horses and march alternately each day
the one in front and the other in rear. haveing divided the party agreeably to this arrangement,
we proceeded on through an open plain country about 8 miles to a village of 6 houses of the
Eneshur nation, here we observed our 2 canoes passing up on the opposite side; the wind being
too high for them to pass the river they continued on. we halted at a small run just above
the village where we dined on some dogs which we purchased of the inhabitants and suffered
our horses to graize about three hours. there is no timber in this country we are obliged to
purchase our fuel of the natives, who bling it from a great distance. while we halted for dinner
we purch a horse. after dinner we proceeded on up the river about 4 miles to a village of 7
mat lodges of the last mentioned nation. here our Chopunnish guide informed us that the next
village was at a considerable distance and that we could not reach it tonight. the people at
this place offered to sell us wood and dogs, and we therefore thought it better to remain all
night. a man blonging to the next village abovd proposed exchanging a horse for one of our
canoes, just at this moment one of our canoes was passing. we hailed them and ordered them
to come over but the wind continued so high that they could not join us untill after sunset
and the Indian who wished to exchange his horse for the canoe had gone on. Charbonoe purchased
a horse this evening. we obtained 4 dogs and as much wood as answered our purposes on moderate
terms. we can only afford ourselves one fire, and are obliged to lie without shelter, the nights
are cold and days warm.- Colter and Pots had passed on with their canoe.

[Clark, April 22, 1806] Tuesday 22nd of April 1806 last night 2 of our horses broke loose and
Strayed of at a Short dis-tance. at 7 oClock we loaded up and Set out, haveing previously Sent
off the Canoe with Colter and Potts we had not arived at the top of the hill which is 200 feet
before Shabonos horse threw off his load and went with great Speed down the hill to the Village
where he disengaged himself of his Saddle & the robe which was under it, the Indians hid the
robe and delayed Capt. Lewis and the rear party Some time before they found the robe which
was in a lodge hid behind their baggage, and took possession of it. dureing the time the front
of the party was waiting for Cap Lewis, I assended a high hill from which I could plainly See
the range of Mountains which runs South from Mt. Hood as far as I could See. I also discovered
the top of Mt. Jefferson which is Covered with Snow and is S to W. Mt. Hood is S. 30° W. the
range of mountains are Covered with timber and also Mt Hood to a sertain bite. The range of
Mountains has Snow on them. I also discovered some timbered land in a S. detection from me,
Short of the mountains. Clarks river which mouthes imedeately opposit to me forks at about
18 or 20 miles, the West fork runs to the Mt Hood and the main branch Runs from S. E. after
Capt Lewis Came up we proceeded on through a open ruged plain about 8 miles to a Village of
6 Houses on the river. here we observed our 2 Canoes passing up on the opposit Side and the
Wind too high for them to join us. I halted at the mouth of a run above the village near Some
good grass to let the horses graze and for the party to dine. Sent and purchased Some wood
and 4 dogs & Shapillele. Shabono purchased a hors for which he gave a red rapper, Shirt, ploom
& Tomahawk &c. the party purchased a great quantity of Chapellell and Some berries for which
they gave bits of Tin and Small pieces of Cloth & wire &c. had our horses led out and held
to grass untill dusk when they were all brought to Camp, and pickets drove in the ground and
the horses tied up. we find the horses very troublesom perticularly the Stud which Compose
10/13 of our number of horses. the air I find extreemly Cold which blows Continularly from
Mt. Hoods Snowey regions. those Indians reside in Small Lodges built of the mats of Grass,
flags &c. and Crouded with inhabitents, who Speak a language Somewhat different from those
at the falls. their dress habits and appearance appear to be very much the Same with those
below. we made 14 miles to day with the greatest exirtion. Serjt. Gass & R. Fields joined us
with one Canoe this evening. the other Canoe with Colter & pots is a head.

[Lewis, April 23, 1806] Wednesday April 23rd 1806. At day light this morning we were informed
that the two horses of our Interpreter Charbono were absent; on enquiry it appeared that he
had neglected to confine them to picquts as had been directed last evening. we immediately
dispatched Reubin Feilds and Labuish to assist Charbono in recovering his horses. one of them
was found at no great distance and the other was given over as lost. at 8 A.M. Reuben Feilds
and Sergt. R. Fields retd. without finding the horse Set out with Sergt Gass in the Small Canoe
at about 8 A M. at 10 Shabono and Labiech returned also unsucksessfull they had went on the
back trail nearly to the last Village and took a circle around on the hills. as our Situation
was Such that we Could not detain for a horse, which would prevent our makeing a timely Stage
which is a great object with us in those open plains, we Concluded to give up the horse and
proceed on to the next village which we were informed was at Some distance and would take us
the greater part of the day. at 11 A.M. we packed up and Set out and proceeded up on the N.
Side of the Columbia on a high narrow bottom and rockey for 12 miles to the Wah-how-pum village
near the rock rapid of 12 temporary mat Lodges, those people appeared pleased to See us. they
Sold us 4 dogs Some Shapollell and wood for our Small articles Such as awls pieces of Tin and
brass. we passed Several Lodges on the bank of the river where they were fixed waiting for
the Salmon. I over took a Choponish man whome I had Seen at the long, and who had found a bag
of our powder and brought it to me at that place. this man had his family on the  and about
3 head of horses which appeared young and unbroke. his spous as also that of the other gave
me a Cake of Chapellell and proceeded on with me to the Wah howpum Village and formed his Camp
near us. we Caused all the old & brave men to Set around and Smoke with us. we Caused the fiddle
to be played and Some of the men danced. after them the nativs danced. they dance different
from any Indians I have Seen. they dance with their Sholders together and pass from Side to
Side, defferent parties passing each other, from 2 to 7. and 4 parties danceing at the Same
time and Concluding the dance by passing promiscuisly throu & beetween each other. after which
we Sent of the Indians and retired to bed. Those people Speak a language verry Similal to the
Chopunish and with a very inconsiderable difference. their dress and appearance is more like
those of the Great falls of the Columbia. we had all our horses Side hobbled and let out to
feed. at this village a large Creek falls in on the N. Side which I had not observed as I decended
the river. the river is by no means as rapid as it was at the time we decended. The nativs
promised to give is a horse for one of our Canoes. and offer to Sell us another for a Scarlet
robe which we have not at present. Shabono made a bargin with one of the Indian men going with
us, for a horse for Which he gave his Shirt. and two of the leather Sutes of his wife. The
Sand through which we walked to day is So light that renders the march verry fatigueing. made
12 miles by land.

[Lewis, April 24, 1806] Thursday April 24 th 1806. We were up early this morning and dispatched
the men in surch of our horses, they were all found in a little time except McNeal's. we hired
an indian to surch for this horse it was one in the evening before he returned with him. in
the intermediate time we had 4 packsaddles made purchased three horses of the Wah-howpums,
and hired three others of the Chopunnish man who accompanys us with his family and horses.
we now sold our canoes for a few strands of beads, loaded up and departed at 2 P.M. the natives
had tantalized us with an exchange of horses for our canoes in the first instance, but when
they found that we had made our arrangements to travel by land they would give us nothing for
them I determined to cut them in peices sooner than leave them on those terms, Drewyer struck
one of the canoes and split of a small peice with his tommahawk, they discovered us determined
on this subject and offered us several strands of beads for each which were accepted. we proceeded
up the river between the hills and it's Northen shore. the road was rocky and sandy alternately,
the road difficult and fatiegu-ing. at 12 ms. we arrived at a village of 5 lodges of the Met-cow-wes,
having passed 4 lodges at 4 and 2 at 2 Ms. further. we ramined all night near the Met-cow-we
lodges about 2 miles below our encampment of the  of October last; we purchased three dogs
and some shappellel of these people which we cooked with dry grass and willow boughs. many
of the natives pased and repassed us today on the road and behaved themselves with distant
rispect towards us. most of the party complain of the soarness of their feet and legs this
evening; it is no doubt caused by walking over the rough stones and deep sands after bing for
some months passed been accustomed to a soft soil. my left ankle gives me much pain. I baithed
my feet in cold water from which I experienced considerable releif. The curloos are abundant
in these plains and are now laying their eggs. saw the Kildee, the brown lizzard, and a Moonax
which the natives had petted. the winds which set from Mount Hood or in a westerly direction
are much more cold than those from the opposite quarter. there are now no dews in these plains,
and from the appearance of the earth there appears to have been no rain for several weeks.-
we derected that the three horses which we purchased yesterday should be bubbled and confined
to a picqut, and that the others should be disposed of in the same manner they were last evening.

[Clark, April 24, 1806] Thursday 24th April 1806 rose early this morning and Sent out after
the horses all of which were found except McNeals which I hired an Indian to find and gave
him a Tomahawk had 4 pack Saddles made ready to pack the horses which we may purchase. we purchased
3 horses, and hired 3 others of the Chopunnish man who accompanies us with his family, and
at 1 P.M. Set out and proceeded on through a open Countrey rugid & Sandy between Some high
lands and the river to a village of 5 Lodges of the Met-cow-we band haveing passed 4 Lodges
at 4 miles and 2 Lodges at 6 miles. I bathed them in Cold water from which I experienced Considerable
relief. we directed that the 3 horses purchased yesterday should be hobbled and confined to
pickquets and that the others Should be Hobbled & Spancled, and Strictly attended to by the
guard made 12 miles to day.-

[Lewis, April 25, 1806] Friday April 25th 1806. This morning we collected our horses and set
out at 9 A.M. and proceeded on 11 ms. to the Village of the Pish-quit-pahs of 51 mat lodges
where we arrived at 2 P.M. purchased five dogs and some wood from them and took dinner. this
village contains about 7 hundred souls. most of those people were in the plains at a distance
from the river as we passed down last fall, they had now therefore the gratification of beholding
whitemen for the first time. while here they flocked arround us in great numbers tho treated
us with much rispect. we gave two medals of the small size to their two principal Cheifs who
were pointed out to us by our Chopunnish fellow traveller and were acknowledged by the nation.
we exposed a few old clothes my dirk and Capt. C's swoard to barter for horses but were unsuccessfull
these articles constitute at present our principal stock in trade. the Pish-quit-pahs insisted
much on our remaining with them all night, but sudry reasons conspired to urge our noncomplyance
with their wishes. we passed one house or reather lodge of the Metcowwees about a mile above
our encampment of the th of October last the Pish-quit-pahs, may be considered hunters as well
as fishermen as they spend the fall and winter months in that occupation. they are generally
pleasently featured of good statue and well proportioned. both women and men ride extreemly
well. their bridle is usually a hair rope tyed with both ends to the under jaw of the horse,
and their saddle consists of a pad of dressed skin stuffed with goats hair with wooden stirups.
almost all the horses which I have seen in possession of the Indians have soar backs. the Pishquitpah
women for the most part dress with short shirts which reach to their knees long legings and
mockersons, they also use large robes; some of them weare only the truss and robe they brade
their hair as before discribed but the heads of neither male nor female of this tribe are so
much flattened as the nations lower down on this river. at 4 P.M. we set out accompanyed by
eighteen or twenty of their young men on horseback. we continued our rout about nine miles
where finding as many willows as would answer our purposes for fuel we encamped for the evening.
the country we passed through was much as that of yesterday. the river hills are about 250
feet high and generally abrupt and craggey in many places faced with a perpendicular and solid
rock. this rock is black and hard. leve plains extend themselves from the tops of the river
hills to a great distance on either side of the river. the soil is not as fertile as about
the falls, tho it produces a low grass on which the horses feed very conveniently. it astonished
me to seed the order of their horses at this season of the year when I knew that they had wintered
on the dry grass of the plains and at the same time road with greater severity than is common
among ourselves. I did not see a single horse which could be deemed poor and many of them were
as fat as seals. their horses are generally good. this evining after we had encamped, we traded
for two horses with nearly the same articles we had offered at the village; these nags Capt.
C. and myself intend riding ourselves; haveing now a sufficiency to transport with ease all
our baggage and the packs of the men.- we killed six ducks in the course of the day; one of
them was of a speceis which I had never before seen I therefore had the most material parts
of it reserved as a specimine, the leggs are yellow and feet webbed as those of the duckandmallard.
saw many common lizzards, several rattlesnakes killed by the party, they are the same as those
common to the U States. the horned Lizzard is also common.- had the fiddle played at the request
of the natives and some of the men danced. we passed five lodges of the Walldh wolldhs at the
distance of 4 miles above the Pishquitpahs.

[Clark, April 25, 1806] Friday 25th of April 1806 This morning we Collected our horses very
conveniently and Set out at 9 A M and proceeded on to a village of Pish-quit-pahs of 52 mat
Lodges 11 miles this village Contains about 700 Soles here we turned out our horses and bought
5 dogs & some wood and dined here we met with a Chief and gave him a Medal of the Small Size.
we passed a house a little above the place we encamped on the 20th of Octr. 1805. we offered
to purchase with what articles we had Such as old Clothes &c. emence numbers of those Indians
flocked about us and behaved with distant respect towards us. we attempted to purchase Some
horses without Suckcess. at 4 P. M Set out. I was in the rear and had not proceeded verry far
before one of the horses which we had hired of the Chopunnish, was taken from Hall who I had
directed to ride. he had fallen behind out of my sight at the time. we proceeded on about 9
miles through a Country Similar to that of yesterday and encamped below the mouth of a Small
Creek we passed at 4 miles a Village of 5 Mat Lodges of the War-war-wa Tribe. We made a Chief
and gave a medal to a Chief of each of those two tribes. great numbers of the nativs accompanied
us to our encampmt. Saw great numbers of Common Lizzard. Several rattle Snakes, killed by the
party, they are the Same as those Common to the U. States. the Horned Lizzard is also Common.-
a Chief over took us. we had the fiddle played by the request of the nativs and Some of the
men danced. I think those plains are much more Sandy than any which I have Seen and the road
is a bed of loose Sand. made 20 miles.

[Lewis, April 26, 1806] Saturday April 26th 1806. This morning early we set forward and at
the distance of three miles entered a low level plain country of great extent. here the river
hills are low and receede a great distance from the river this low country commenced on the
S. side of the river about 10 miles below our encampment of last evening. these plains are
covered with a variety of herbatious plants, grass, and three speceis of shrubs specimines
of which I have preserved. at the distance of twelve miles we halted near a few willows which
afforded us a sufficient quantity of fuel to cook our dinner which consisted of the ballance
of the dogs we had purchased yesterday evening and some jirked Elk. we were overtaken today
by several families of the natives who were traveling up the river with a number of horses;
they continued with us much to our annoyance as the day was worm the roads dusty and we could
not prevent their horses from crouding in and breaking our order of mach without using some
acts of severity which we did not wish to commit. after dinner we continued our march through
the level plain near the river 16 Ms. and encamped about a mile below three lodges of the Wollah
wollah nation, and about 7 Ms. above our encampment of the 19 of October last. after we encamped
a little Indian boy caught several chubbs with a bone in this form which he substituted for
a hook. these fish were of about 9 inches long small head large abdomen, small where the tail
joined the body, the tail wide long in proportion and forked. the back and ventral fins were
equadistant from the head and had each 10 bony rays, the fns next the gills nine each and that
near the tail 12. the upper exceeded the under jaw, the latter is truncate at the extremity
and the tonge and pallet are smooth. the colour is white on the sides and belley and a blewish
brown on the back. the iris of the eye is of a silvery colour and puple black.- we covered
ourselves partially this evening from the rain by means of an old tent. Saw a Goat and a Small
wolf at a distance to day. made 28 miles

[Lewis, April 27, 1806] Sunday April 27th 1806. This morning we were detained untill 9 A.M.
in consequence of the absence of one of Charbono's horses. the horse at length being recovered
we set out and at the distance of fifteen miles passed through a country similar to that of
yesterday; the hills at the extremity of this distance again approach the river and are rocky
abrupt and 300 feet high. we ascended the hill and marched through a high plain for 9 miles
when we again returned to the river, I now thought it best to halt as the horses and men were
much fatiegued altho had not reached the Wallah wollah village as we had been led to beleive
by our guide who informed us that the village was at the place we should next return to the
river, and the consideration of our having but little provision had been our inducement to
make the march we had made this morning. we collected some of the dry stalks of weeds and the
stems of a shrub which resembles the southern wood; made a small fire and boiled a small quantity
of our jerked meat on which we dined; while here the principal Cheif of the Wallahwallahs joined
us with six men of his nation. this Cheif by name Yel-lept had visited us on the morning of
the 19 of October at our encampment a little below this place; we gave him at that time a small
medal, and promised him a larger one on our return. he appeared much gratifyed at seeng us
return, invited us to remain at his village three or four days and assured us that we should
be furnished with a plenty of such food as they had themselves; and some horses to assist us
on our journey. after our scanty repast we continued our march accompanyed by Yellept and his
party to the village which we found at the distance of six miles situated on the N. side of
the river at the lower side of the low country about 12 ms. below the entrance of Lewis's river.
This Cheif is a man of much influence not only in his own nation but also among the neighbouring
tribes and nations.- This Village consists of 15 large mat lodges. at present they seem to
subsist principally on a speceis of mullet which weigh from one to three lbs. and roots of
various discriptions which these plains furnish them in great abundance. they also take a few
salmon trout of the white kind.- Yellept haranged his village in our favour intreated them
to furnish us with fuel and provision and set the example himself by bringing us an armfull
of wood and a platter of 3 roasted mullets. the others soon followed his example with rispect
to fuel and we soon found ourselves in possession of an ample stock. they birn the stems of
the shrubs in the plains there being no timber in their neighbourhood of any discription. we
purchased four dogs of these people on which the party suped heartily having been on short
allowance for near two days. the indians retired when we requested them this evening and behaved
themselves in every rispect extreemly well. the indians informed us that there was a good road
which passed from the columbia opposite to this village to the entrance of the Kooskooske on
the S. side of Lewis's river; they also informed us, that there were a plenty of deer and Antelopes
on the road, with good water and grass. we knew that a road in that direction if the country
would permit would shorten our rout at least 80 miles. the indians also informed us that the
country was level and the road good, under these circumstances we did not hesitate in pursuing
the rout recommended by our guide whos information was corroberated by Yellept & others. we
concluded to pass our horses over early in the morning. They also take a fiew Salmon trout
of the white kind. This morning early Yellept brought a very eligant white horse to our camp
and presented him to Capt. C. signifying his wish to get a kettle but on being informed that
we had already disposed of every kettle we could possibly spear he said he was content with
whatever he thought proper to give him. Capt. C. gave him his swoard a hundred balls and powder
and some sail articles with which he appeared perfectly satisfyed. it was necessary before
we entered on our rout through the plains where we were to meet with no lodges or resident
indians that we should lay in a stock of provision and not depend altogether on the gun. we
directed Frazier to whom we have intrusted the duty of makeing those purchases to lay in as
many fat dogs as he could procure; he soon obtained ten. being anxious to depart we requested
the Cheif to furnish us with canoes to pass the river, but he insisted on our remaining with
him this day at least, that he would be much pleased if we would conset to remain two or three,
but he would not let us have canoes to leave him today. that he had sent for the Chym nap'-pos
his neighbours to come down and join his people this evening and dance for us. we urged the
necessity of our going on immediately in order that we might the sooner return to them with
the articles which they wished but this had no effect, he said that the time he asked could
not make any considerable difference. I at length urged that there was no wind blowing and
that the river was consequently in good order to pass our horses and if he would furnish us
with canoes for that purpose we would remain all night at our present encampment, to this proposition
he assented and soon produced us a couple of canoes by means of which we passed our horses
over the river safely and bubbled them as usual. we found a Shoshone woman, prisoner among
these people by means of whome and Sahcahgarweah we found the means of conversing with the
Wollahwollahs. we conversed with them for several hours and fully satisfyed all their enquiries
with rispect to ourselves and the objects of our pursuit. they were much pleased. they brought
several diseased persons to us for whom they requested some medical aid. one had his knee contracted
by the rheumatism, another with a broken arm &c to all of which we administered much to the
gratification of those poor wretches. we gave them some eye-water which I beleive will render
them more essential service than any other article in the medical way which we had it in our
power to bestoe on them. soar eyes seem to be a universal complaint amonge these people; I
have no doubt but the fine sand of these plains and river contribute much to this disorder.
ulsers and irruptions of the skin on various parts of the body are also common diseases among
them. a little before sunset the Chymnahpos arrived; they were about 100 men and a few women;
they joined the Wallahwollahs who were about the same number and formed a half circle arround
our camp where they waited very patiently to see our party dance. the fiddle was played and
the men amused themselves with dancing about an hour. we then requested the Indians to dance
which they very cheerfully complyed with; they continued their dance untill 10 at night. the
whole assemblage of indians about 550 men women and children sung and danced at the same time.
most of them stood in the same place and merely jumped up to the time of their music. some
of the men who were esteemed most brave entered the space arrond which the main body were formed
in solid column, and danced in a circular manner sidewise. at 10 P.M. the dance concluded and
the natives retired; they were much gratifyed with seeing some of our party join them in their
dance. I Saw a man who had his knee Contracted who had previously applyed to me for Some Medisene,
that if he would fournish another Canoe I would give him Some Medisene. he readily Consented
and went himself with his Canoe by means of which we passed our horses over the river Safely
and hobbled them as usial-. We found a Sho Sho ne woman, prisoner among those people by means
of whome and Sah-cah gah-weah, Shabono's wife we found means of Converceing with the Wallahwallfirs.
we Conversed with them for Several hours and fully Satisfy all their enquiries with respect
to our Selves and the Object of our pursute. they were much pleased. they brought Several disordered
persons to us for whome they requested Some Medical aid. one had his knee contracted by the
Rhumitism (whome is just mentioned above) another with a broken arm &c. to all of whome we
administered much to the gratification of those pore wretches, we gave them Some eye water
which I believe will render them more esential Sirvece than any other article in the Medical
way which we had it in our power to bestow on them Sore eyes Seam to be a universial Complaint
among those people; I have no doubt but the fine Sands of those plains and the river Contribute
much to the disorder. The man who had his arm broken had it loosely bound in a peice of leather
without any thing to Surport it. This morning Yellept furnished us with two canoes and we began
to transport our baggage over the river; we also sent a party of the men over to collect the
horses. we purchased some dogs and shappellell this morning. we had now a store of 12 dogs
for our voyage through the plains. by 11 A.M. we had passed the river with our party and baggage
but were detained several hours in consequence of not being able to collect our horses. our
guide now informed us that it was too late in the evening to reach an eligible place to encamp;
that we could not reach any water before night. we therefore thought it best to remain on the
Wallahwollah river about a mile from the Columbia untill the morning, and accordingly encamped
on that river near a fish wear. this wear consists of two curtains of small willow switches
matted together with four lines of withs of the same materials extening quite across the river,
parrallel with eah other and about 6 feet assunder. those are supported by several parsels
of poles placed in the manner before discribed of the fishing wears. these curtains of willow
are either roled at one end for a few feet to permit the fish to pass or are let down at pleasure.
they take their fish which at present are a mullet only of from one to five lbs., with small
seines of 15 or 18 feet long drawn by two persons; these they drag down to the wear and raise
the bottom of the seine against the willow curtain. they have also a small seine maniaged by
one person it bags in the manner of the scooping net; the one side of the net is confined to
a simicircular bow of half the size of a man's arm and about 5 feet long; the other side is
confined to a strong string which being attatched to the extremities of the bow forms the cord
line to the simicircle. The Wallahwollah river discharges itself into the Columbia on it's
S. side 15 miles below the entrance of Lewis's river or the S. E. branch. a high range of hills
pass the Columbia just below the entrance of this river. this is a handsome stream about 41/2
feet deep and 50 yds. wide; it's bed is composed of gravel principally with some sand and mud;
the banks are abrupt but not high, tho it dose not appear to overflow; the water is clear.
the indians inform us that it has it's surces in the range of mountains in view of us to the
E and S. E. these mountains commence a little to the south of Mt. Hood and extending themselves
in a N. Eastwardly direction terminate near a Southen branch of Lewis's river short of the
Rocky mountains. The Towannahiooks river, river LaPage and the Wollah-wollah rivers all take
their rise on the N side of these mountains; two principal branches of the first of these take
their rise in Mountains Jefferson and hood. these mountains are covered with snow at present
tho do not appear high; they seperate the waters of the Multnomah from those of the Columbia
river. they appear to be about 65 or 70 miles distant from hence. The Snake indian prisoner
informed us that at some distance in the large plains to the South of those mountains there
was a large river runing to the N. W. which was as wide as the Columbia at this place which
is nearly one mile. this account is no doubt some what exagerated but it serves to evince the
certainty of the Multnomah being a very large river and that it's waters are seperated from
the Columbia by those mountains and that with the aid of a southwardly branch of Lewis's river
which passes arrond the eastern extremity of those mountains, it must water that vast tract
of country extending from those mountains to the waters of the gulph of California. and no
doubt it heads with the Yellowstone river and the del Nord. we gave small medals to two inferior
cheifs of this nation and they each presented us a fine horse in return we gave them sundry
articles and among others one of my case pistols and several hundred rounds of amunition. there
are 12 other lodges of the Wollahwollah nation on this river a little distance below our camp.
12 these as well as those beyond the Columbia appear to depend on this fishing wear for their
subsistence. these people as well as the Chymnahpos are very well dressed, much more so particularly
their women than they were as we decended the river last fall most of them have long shirts
and leggings, good robes and mockersons. their women wear the truss when they cannot procure
the shirt, but very few are seen with the former at this moment. I presume the success of their
winters hunt has produced this change in their attire. they all cut their hair in their forehead
and most of the men wear the two cews over each sholder in front of the body; some have the
addition of a few small plats formed of the earlocks and others tigh a small bundle of the
docked foretop in front of the forehead. their ornaments are such as discribed of the nations
below and are woarn in a similar manner. they insisted on our dancinq this evening but it rained
a little the wind blew hard and the weather was cold, we therefore did not indulge them.

We gave Small Medals to two inferior Chiefs of this nation, and they each furnished us with
a fine horse, in return we gave them Sundery articles among which was one of Capt Lewis's Pistols
& Several hundred rounds of Amunition. there are 12 other Lodges of the Wallahwallah Nation
on this river a Short distance below our Camp. those as well as those beyond the Columbia appear
to depend on their fishing weres for their Subsistance. those people as well as the Chym na
poms are very well disposed, much more So particular their women than they were when we decended
the river last fall. Most of them have long Shirts and leggins, good robes and Mockersons.
their women were the truss when they Cannot precure the Shirt, but very fiew are Seen with
the former at the present. I administered as well as I could to all. in the evining a man brought
his wife and a horse both up to me. the horse he gave me as a present. and his wife who was
verry unwell the effects of violent Coalds was placed before me. I did not think her Case a
bad one and gave Such medesine as would keep her body open and raped her in flannel. left Some
Simple Medesene to be taken. we also gave Some Eye water 1 G. of Ela v V. & 2 grs. of Sacchm
Stry. to an ounce of water and in that perpotion. Great No. of the nativs about us all night.

[Lewis, April 30, 1806] Wednesday April 30th 1806. This morning we had some difficulty in collecting
our horses notwithstanding we had bubbled and picquited those we obtained of these people.
we purchased two other horses this morning and several dogs. we exchanged one of our most indifferent
horses for a very good one with the Chopunnish man who has his family with him. this man has
a daughter new arrived at the age of puberty, who being in a certain situation is not permitted
to ascociate with the family but sleeps at a distance from her father's camp and when traveling
follows at some distance behind. in this state I am informed that the female is not permitted
to eat, nor to touch any article of a culinary nature or manly occupation. at 10 A.M. we had
collected all our horses except the white horse which Yellept had given Capt. C. the whole
of the men soon after returned without being able to find this horse. I lent my horse to Yellept
to surch Capt. C's about half an hour after he set out our Chopunnish man brought up Capt.
C's horse we now determined to leave one man to bring on my horse when Yellept returned and
to proceed on with the party accordingly we took leave of these friendly honest people the
Wollahwollahs and departed at 11 A.M. accompanyed by our guide and the Chopunnish man and family.
we continued our rout N. 30 E. 14 ms. through an open level sandy plain to a bold Creek 10
yds. wide. this stream is a branch of the Wallahwollah river into which it discharges itself
about six miles above the junction of that river with the Columbia. it takes it's rise in the
same range of mountains to the East of the sources of the main branch of the same. it appears
to be navigable for canoes; it is deep and has a bold current. there are many large banks of
pure sand which appear to have been drifted up by the wind to the hight of 15 or 20 feet, lying
in many parts of the plain through which we passed today. this plain as usual is covered with
arromatic shrubs hurbatious plants and a short grass. many of those plants produce those esculent
roots which form a principal part of the subsistence of the natives. among others there is
one which produces a root somewhat like the sweet pittaitoe.- we encamped at the place we intersepted
the creek where we had the pleasure once more to find an abundance of good wood for the purpose
of making ourselves comfortable fires, which has not been the case since we left rock fort
camp. Drewyer killed a beaver and an otter; a pan of the former we reserved for ourselves and
gave the indians the ballance. these people will not eat the dog but feast heartily on the
otter which is vastly inferior in my estimation, they sometimes also eat their horses, this
indeed is common to all the indians who possess this annimal in the plains of Columbia; but
it is only done when necessity compells them.- the narrow bottom of this creek is very fertile,
tho the plains are poor and sandy. the hills of the creek are generally abrupt and rocky. there
is a good store of timber on this creek at least 20 fold more than on the Columbia river itself.
it consists of Cottonwood, birch, the crimson haw, redwillow, sweetwillow, chokecherry yellow
currants, goosberry, whiteberryed honeysuckle rose bushes, seven bark, and shoemate. I observed
the corngrass and rushes in some parts of the bottom. Reubin Feilds overtook us with my horse.
our stock of horses has now encresed to 23 and most of them excellent young horses, but much
the greater portion of them have soar backs. these indians are cruell horse-masters; they ride
hard, and their saddles are so illy constructed that they cannot avoid wounding the backs of
their horses; but reguardless of this they ride them when the backs of those poor annimals
are in a horrid condition. I informed the chief and he mounted Capt Lewis's horse and went
in Serch of the horse himself. about half an hour after the Chopunnish man brought my horse.
we deturmined to proceed on with the party leaving one man to bring up Capt L.-s horse when
Yelleppit Should return. This plain as usial is covered with arromatic Shrubs, hurbatious plants
and tufts of Short grass. Maney of those plants produce those esculent roots which forms a
principal part of the Subsistance of the Nativs. among others there is one which produce a
root Somewhat like the Sweet potato. We encamped at the place we intersepted the Creek where
we had the pleasure once more to find a Sufficency of wood for the purpose of makeing ourselves
comfortable fires, which has not been the Case Since we left Rock fort Camp below the falls.
Drewyer killed a beaver and an otter. the narrow bottoms of this Creek is fertile. tho the
plains are pore & Sandy. the hills of the Creek are generaly abrupt and rocky. there is Some
timber on this Creek. it consists of Cotton wood, birch, the Crimson haw, red willow, Sweet
willow, Choke Cherry, yellow Current, goose berry, white berried honey suckle, rose bushes,
Seven bark, Shoemate &c. &c. rushes in Some parts of the bottoms.

R. Fields over took us with Capt Lewis's horse our Stock of horses have now increased to 23
and most of them excellent young horses, but much the greatest part of them have Sore backs.
those Indians are cruel horse masters; they ride hard and their Saddles illey constructed. &c. &c.

[Lewis, May 1, 1806] Thursday May 1st 1806. We collected our horses tolerably early this morning
took and set out a little after 7 A.M. we pursued the indian road which led us up the creek
about nine miles, here the Chopunnish man wo was in front with me informed that an old unbeaten
tract which he pointed out to the left was our nearest rout. we halted the party and directed
them to unload and let their horses graize untill our guide came up who was at some distance
behind. I wished to obtain good information of this newly recommended tract before I could
consent to leave the present road which seemed to lead us in the proper direction was level
and furnished with wood and water. when the guide arrived he seemed much displeased with the
other, he assured us that the rout up the creek was the nearest, and much the best, that if
we took the other we would be obliged to remain here untill tomorrow morning, and then travel
a whole day before we could reach water, and that there was no wood; the other agreed that
this was the case. we therefore did not hesitate to pursue the rout recommended by the guide.
the creek, it's bottom lands, and the appearance of the plains were much as those of esterday
only with this difference that the latter were not so sandy. we had sent out four hunters this
morning two on foot and 2 on horseback they joined us while we halted here. Drewyer had killed
a beaver. at 1 P.M. we resumed our march, leaving the Chopunnish man and his family; he had
determined to remain at that place untill the next morning and then pursue the rout he had
recommended to us. he requested a small quantity of powder and lead which we gave him. we traveled
17 miles this evening, making a total of 26 Ms. and encamped. the first 3 miles of our afternoons
march was through a similar country with that of the forenoon; the creek bottoms then became
higher and widened to the extent of from 2 to 3 Ms. the hills on the N. side were low but those
on the opposite side retained their hight. we saw a number of deer of which Labuish killed
one. the timber on the creek becomes more abundant and it's extensive bottoms affords a pleasent
looking country. the guide informs us that we shall now find a plenty of wood water and game
quite to the Kooskooske. we saw a great number of the Curloos, some Grains, ducks, prarie larks
and several speceis of sparrows common to the praries. I see very little difference between
the apparent face of the country here and that of the plains of the Missouri only that these
are not enlivened by the vast herds of buffaloe Elk &c which ornament the other. the courses
and distances of this day are N. 45 E. 9 M. and N. 75 E. 17 M. along the Northern side of this
creek to our encampment. some time after we had encamped three young men arrived from the Wallahwollah
village bringing with them a steel trap belonging to one of our party which had been neglegently
left behind; this is an act of integrity rarely witnessed among indians. during our stay with
them they several times found the knives of the men which had been carelessly lossed by them
and returned them. I think we can justly affirm to the honor of these people that they are
the most hospitable, honest, and sincere people that we have met with in our voyage.

[Clark, May 1, 1806]
Thursday May 1st 1806.
This morning we collected our horses and made an early Start, haveing
preveously Sent a hed 4 hunters with derections to proceed up the Creek
and kill every Species of game which they might meet with. the Small
portion of rain which fell last night Caused the road to be much furmer
and better than yesterday. the morning Cloudy and Cool. we proceeded up
the Creek on the N. E. Side through a Countrey of less sand and Some
rich bottoms on the Creek which is partially Supplyed with Small Cotton
trees, willow, red willow, choke Cherry, white thorn, birch, elder,
 rose & honey suckle. Great portion of these bottoms has been
latterly burnt which has entirely distroyed the timbered growth. at the
distance of nine miles we over took our hunters, they had killed one
bever only at this place the road forked, one leaveing the Creek and
the Corse of it is nearly North. the Chopunnish who had accompanied us
with his family informed us that this was our best way. that it was a
long distance without water. and advised us to Camp on the Creek at
this place and in the morning to Set out early. This information
perplexed us a little, in as much as the idea of going a days march
without water thro an open Sandy plain and on a Course 50° out of our
derection. we deturmined to unlode and wate for our Guide, or the
Chopunnish man who had accompanied us from the long Narrows, who was in
the rear with Drewyer our interpreter. on his arrival we enquired of
him which was the best and most direct roade for us to take. he
informed us that the road pointed out by his cumerade was through a
open hilly and Sandy Countrey to the river Lewis's River, and was a
long ways around, and that we Could not git to any water to day. the
other roade up the creek was a more derect Course, plenty of water wood
and only one hill in the whole distance and the road which he had
always recomended to us. Some words took place between those two men
the latter appeared in great pation Mounted his horse and Set out up
the Creek. we Sent a man after him and brought him back informed him
that we believed what he Said and Should imedeately after dinner
proceed on the road up the Creek with him. we gave the former man Some
powder and ball which had been promised him, and after an early dinner
Set out up the Creek with our guide leaveing the Chopunnish man and his
family encamped at the forks of the road where they intended to Stay
untill the morning and proceed on the rout he had recommended to us. we
traviled 17 miles this evening makeing a total of 26 mls. and encamped.
the first 3 miles of our afternoons march was through a Simaler Country
of that of the fore noon; the Creek bottoms then became higher and
wider; to the extent of from 2 to 3 miles. we Saw Several Deer of which
Labiech killed one. the timber on the Creek become more abundant and
less burnt, and its extensive bottoms afford a pleasent looking
Country. we Saw a Great number of Curloos, Some Crains, Ducks, prarie
cocks, and Several Species of Sparrows common to the praries. I See
Very little difference between the apparant face of the Country here
and that of the plains of the Missouri. only that those are not
enlivened by the vast herds of Buffalow, Elk &c. which animated those
of the Missouri. The Courses & distances of this day are N. 45° E. 9 mls.
& N. 75° E. 17 Miles allong the North Side of this Creek to our
encampment. Sometime after we had encamped three young men arrived from
the Wallah wallah Village bringing with them a Steel trap belonging to
one of our party which had been negligently left behind; this is an act
of integrity rearly witnessed among Indians. dureing our Stay with them
they Several times found the knives of the men which had been Carefully
lossed by them and returned them. I think we can justly affirm to the
honor of those people that they are the most hospitable, honist and
Sencere people that we have met with on our Voyage.-

[Lewis, May 2, 1806] Friday May 2cd 1806. This morning we dispatched two hunters a head. we
had much difficulty in collecting our horses. at 8 A.M. we obtained them all except the horse
we obtained from the Chopunnish man whom we seperated from yesterday. we apprehended that this
horse would make some attempts to rejoin the horses of this man and accordingly had him as
we thought securely bubbled both before and at the side, but he broke the strings in the course
of the night and absconded. we sent several men in different directions in surch of him. I
engaged one of the young indians who overtook us last evening to return in surch of him. at
half after 1 P.M. The indian and Joseph Feilds returned with the horse, they had found him
on his way back about 17 Ms. I paid the indian the price stipulated for his services and we
immediately loaded up and set forward. steered East 3 M. over a hilly road along the N. side
of the Creek, wide bottom on S. side. a branch falls in on S. side which runs south towards
the S. W. mountains which appear to be about 25 Ms. distant low yet covered with snow N. 75
E. 7 through an extensive level bottom. more timber than usual on the creek, some pine of the
long leafed kind appears on the sides of the creek hills, also about 50 acres of well timbered
pine land where we passed the creek at 4 m. on this course N. 45 E. 9 ms. repassed the creek
at 4 M. and continued up a N. E. branch of the same which falls in about a mile below where
we passed the main creek. the bottoms though which we passed were wide. the main creek boar
to the S. and heads in the Mountains; it's bottoms are much narrower above where we passed
it and the hills appear high. we passed the small creek at 83/4 from the commencement of this
course and encamped on the N. side in a little bottom, having traveled 19 miles today. at this
place the road leaves the creek and takes the open high plain. this creek is about 4 yds. wide
and bears East as far as I could observe it. I observed considerable quantities of the qua-mash
in the bottoms through which we passed this evening now in blume. there is much appearance
of beaver and otter along these creeks. saw two deer at a distance; also observed many sandhill
crains Curloos and other fowls common to the plains. the soil appears to improve as we advance
on this road. our hunters killed a duck only. the three young men of the Wollahwollah nation
continued with us. in the course of the day I observed them eat the inner part of the young
and succulent stem of a large coarse plant with a ternate leaf, the leafets of which are three
loabed and covered with a woolly pubersence. the flower and fructification resembles that of
the parsnip this plant is very common in the rich lands on the Ohio and it's branches the Mississippi
&c. I tasted of this plant found it agreeable and eat heartily of it without feeling any inconvenience.
I paid the Indian the price Stipulated for his Services and we imediately loaded up and Set
forward. East 3 miles over a hilly road along the N. Side of the Creek. wide bottoms on the
S. Side. a branch falls in on the S. side which runds from the S W. Mountains, which appear
to be about 25 m. distant low yet Covered with Snow. N. 75° E. 7 m. through an extencive leavel
bottom. more timber than usial on the Creek. The three young men of the Wallah wallah nation
Continue with us in the Course of this day. I tasted of this plant found it agreeable and eate
hartily of it without feeling any inconveniance.

[Lewis, May 3, 1806] Saturday May 3rd 1806. This morning we set out at 7 A.M. steered N. 25
E 12 ms. to Kimooenem Creek through a high level plain. this creek is about 12 yds. wide pebbly
bottom low banks and discharges a considerable body of water it heads in the S. W. mountains
and discharges itself into Lewis's river a few miles above the narrows. the bottoms of this
creek are narrow with some timber principally Cottonwood and willow. the under brush such as
mentioned on N. East Creek. the hills are high and abrupt. the land of the plains is much more
fertile than below, less sand and covered with taller grass; very little of the aromatic shrubs
appear in this part of the plain. we halted and dined at this creek; after which we again proceeded
N. 45 E. 3 M. through the high plain to a small creek 5 yds. wide branch of the Kimooenem C.
this stream falls into the creek some miles below. the hills of this creek like those of the
Kimooenem are high it's bottoms narrow and possess but little timber, lands of a good quality,
a dark rich loam. we continued our rout up this creek, on it's N. side. N. 75 E. 7 Ms. the
timber increases in quantity the hills continue high. East 4 Ms. up the creek. here we met
with We-ark-koomt whom we have usually distinguished by the name of the bighorn Cheif from
the circumstance of his always wearing a horn of that animal suspended by a cord to he left
arm. he is the 1st Cheif of a large band of the Chopunnish nation. he had 10 of his young men
with him. this man went down Lewis's river by land as we decended it by water last fall quite
to the Columbia and I beleive was very instrumental in procuring us a hospitable and friendly
reception among the natives. he had now come a considerable distance to meet us. after meeting
this cheif we continued still up the creek bottoms N. 75.

[Lewis, May 4, 1806] Sunday May 4th 1806. Collected our horses and set out early; the morning
was cold and disagreeable. we ascended the Lard. hills of the creek and steered N. 60° E. 4
miles through a high level plain to a ravine which forms the source of a small creek, thence
down this creek N. 75° E. 8 ms. to it's entrance into Lewis's river 71/2 ms. below the entrance
of the Kooskooske. on the river a little above this creek we arrived at a lodge of 6 families
of which Weark-koomt had spoken. we halted here for breakfast and with much difficulty purchase
2 lean dogs. the inhabitants were miserably poor. we obtained a few large cakes of half cured
bread made of a root which resembles the sweet potatoe, with these we made some scope and took
breakfast. the lands through which we passed today are fertile consisting of a dark rich loam
the hills of the river are high and approach it nearly on both sides. no timber in the plains.
the S. W. Mountains which appear to be about 15 Ms. above us still continue to become lower
they are covered with snow at present nearly to their bases. Lewis's river appeas to pass through
these mots. near their N. Eastern extremity. these hills terminate in a high level plain between
the Kooskooske and Lewis's river. these plains are in many places well covered with the Longleafed
pine, with some Larch and balsom fir. the soil is extreemly fertile no dose it appear so thisty
as that of the same apparent texture of the open plains. it produces great quantities of the
quawmash a root of which the natives are extreemly fond. a great portion of the Chopunnish
we are informed are now distributed in small vilages through this plain collecting the quawmash
and cows; the salmon not yet having arrived to call them to the river. the hills of the creek
which we decended this morning are high and in most parts rocky and abrupt. one of our pack
horses sliped from one of those hights and fell into the creek with it's load consisting principally
of ammunition but fortunately neith the horse nor load suffered any material injury. the amunition
being secured in canesters the water did not effect it.- after dinner we continued our rout
up the West side of the river 3 Ms. opposite to 2 lodges the one containing 3 and the other
2 families of the Chopunnish nation; here we met with Te-toh, ar sky, the youngest of the two
cheifs who accompanied us last fall the great falls of the Columbia here we also met with our
pilot who decended the river with us as far as the Columbia. these indians recommended our
passing the river at this place and ascending the Kooskooske on the N. E. side. they said it
was nearer and a better rout to the forkes of that river where the twisted hair resided in
whose charge we had left our horses; thither they promised to conduct us. we determined to
take the advice of the indians and immediately prepared to pass the river which with the assistance
of three indian canoes we effected in the course of the evening, purchased a little wood and
some bread of cows from the natives and encamped having traveled 15 Ms. only today. We-ark-koomt
whose people resided on the West side of Lewis's river above left us when we determined to
pass the river and went on to his lodg. the evening was cold and disagreeable, and the natives
crouded about our fire in great numbers insomuch that we could scarcely cook of keep ourselves
warm. at all these lodges of the Chopunnish I observe an appendage of a small lodg with one
fire which seems to be the retreat of their women in a certain situation. the men are not permitted
to approach this lodge within a certain distance and if they have any thing to convey to the
occupants of this little hospital they stand at the distance of 50 or 60 paces and throw it
towards them as far as they can and retire.

[Lewis, May 5, 1806] Monday May 5th 1806. Collected our horses and set out at 7 A.M. at 41/2
miles we arrived at the entrance of the Kooskooske, up the N. Eastern side of which we continued
our march 12 ms. to a large lodge of 10 families having passed two other large mat lodges the
one at 5 and the other at 8 Ms. from the mouth of the Kooskooske but not being able to obtain
any provision at either of those lodges continued our march to the third where we arrived at
1 P.M. & with much difficulty obtained 2 dogs and a small quanty of root bread and dryed roots.
at the second lodge we passed an indian man gave Capt. C. a very eligant grey mare for which
he requested a phial of eye-water which was accordingly given him. while we were encamped last
fall at the entrance of the Chopunnish river Capt. C. gave an indian man some volitile linniment
to rub his kee and thye for a pain of which he complained, the fellow soon after recovered
and has never ceased to extol the virtues of our medecines and the skill of my friend Capt
C. as a phisician. this occurrence added to the benefit which many of them experienced from
the eyewater we gave them about the same time has given them an exalted opinion of our medicine.
my friend Capt. C. is their favorite phisician and has already received many applications.
in our present situation I think it pardonable to continue this deseption for they will not
give us any provision without compensation in merchandize and our stock is now reduced to a
mere handfull. we take care to give them no article which can possibly oinjure them. we foud
our Chopunnish guide at this lodge with his family. the indians brought us Capt. Clark's horse
from the oposite side of the river and delivered him to us while here. this horse had by some
accedent seperated from our other horses above and had agreeably to indian information been
in this neighbourhood for some weeks. while at dinner an indian fellow verry impertinently
threw a poor half starved puppy nearly into my plait by way of derision for our eating dogs
and laughed very heartily at his own impertinence; I was so provoked at his insolence that
I caught the puppy and thew it with great violence at him and struk him in the breast and face,
siezed my tomahawk and shewed him by signs if he repeated his insolence I would tommahawk him,
the fellow withdrew apparently much mortifyed and I continued my repast on dog without further
molestation. after dinner we continued our rout 4 miles to the entrance of Colter's Creek about
1/2 a mile above the rapid where we sunk the 1st canoe as we decended the river last fall.
we encamped on the lower side of this creek at a little distance from two lodges of the Chopunnish
nation having traveled 201/2 ms. today. one of these lodges contained eight families, the other
was much the largest we have yet seen. it is 156 feet long and about 15 wide built of mats
and straw. in the form of the roof of a house having a number of small doors on each side,
is closed at the ends and without divisions in the intermediate space this lodge contained
at least 30 families. their fires are kindled in a row in the center of the house and about
10 feet assunder.

all the lodges of these people are formed in this manner. we arrived here extreemly hungry
and much fatiegued, but no articles of merchandize in our possession would induce them to let
us have any article of provision except a small quantity of bread of cows and some of those
roots dryed. we had several applications to assist their sick which we refused unless they
would let us have some dogs or horses to eat. a man whose wife had an absess formed on the
small of her back promised a horse in the morning provided we would administer to her accordingly
Capt. C. opened the absess introduced a tent and dressed it with basilicon; I prepared some
dozes of the flour of sulpher and creem of tarter which were given with directions to be taken
on each morning. a little girl and sundry other patients were offered for cure but we posponed
our operations untill morning; they produced us several dogs but they were so poor that they
were unfit for use. This is the residence of one of 4 principal Cheifs of the nation whom they
call Neesh-ne,-park-ke-ook or the cut nose from the circumstance of his nose being cut by the
snake indians with a launce in battle. to this man we gave a medal of the small size with the
likeness of the President. he may be a great cheif but his countenance has but little inteligence
and his influence among his people seems but inconsiderable. a number of indians beside the
inhabitants of these lodges geathered about us this evening and encamped in the timbered bottom
on the creek near us. we met with a snake indian man at this place through whome we spoke at
some length to the natives this evening with rispect to the objects which had induced us to
visit their country. this address was induced at this moment by the suggestions of an old man
who observed to the natives that he thought we were bad men and had come most probably in order
to kill them. this impression if really entertained I beleive we effaced; they appeared well
satisfyed with what we said to them, and being hungry and tired we retired to rest at 11 oClock.-
We-ark-koomt rejoined us this evening. this man has been of infinite service to us on several
former occasions and through him we now offered our address to the natives. I gave him a phial
of Eye water a handkerchief and some Small articles of which he appeared much pleased-. While
we were encamped last fall at the enterance of Chopunnish river, I gave an Indian man some
volitile leniment to rub his knee and thye for a pain of which he Complained. the fellow Soon
after recovered and have never Seased to extol the virtue of our medicines. near the enterance
of the Kooskooske, as we decended last fall I met with a man, who Could not walk with a tumure
on his thye. this had been very bad and recovering fast. I gave this man a jentle pirge cleaned
& dressed his Sore and left him Some Casteel Soap to wash the Sore which Soon got well. this
man also assigned the restoration of his leg to me. those two cures has raised my reputation
and given those nativs an exolted oppinion of my Skill as a phician. I told them her case was
desperate. agreeably to thir request I opened the absess.

[Lewis, May 6, 1806] Tuesday May 6th 1806. This morning the husband of the sick woman was as
good as his word, he produced us a young horse in tolerable order which we immediately killed
and butchered. the inhabitants seemed more accomodating this morning; they sold us some bread.
we received a second horse for medecine and prescription for a little girl with the rheumatism.
Capt. C. dressed the woman again this morning who declared that she had rested better last
night than she had since she had been sick. sore eyes is an universal complaint with all the
natives we have seen on the west side of the Rocky mountains. Capt. C. was busily engaged for
several hours this morning in administering eye-water to a croud of applicants. we once more
obtained a plentifull meal, much to the comfort of all the party. I exchanged horses with We-ark'-koomt
and gave him a small flag with which he was much gratifyed. the sorrel I obtained is an eligant
strong active well broke horse perfictly calculated for my purposes. at this place we met with
three men of a nation called the Skeets-so-mish who reside at the falls of a large river disharging
itself into the Columbia on it's East side to the North of the entrance of Clark's river. this
river they informed us headed in a large lake in the mountains and that the falls below which
they resided was at no great distance from the lake. these people are the same in their dress
and appearance with the Chopunnish, tho their language is intirely different a circumstance
which I did not learn untill we were about to set out and it was then too late to take a vocabulary.
The river here called Clark's river is that which we have heretofore called the Flathead river,
I have thus named it in honour of my worthy friend and fellow traveller Capt. Clark. for this
stream we know no indian name and no whiteman but ourselves was ever on it's principal branches.
the river which Fidler calls the great lake river may possibly be a branch of it but if so
it is but a very inconsiderable branch and may as probably empty itself into the Skeetssomish
as into that river. the stream which I have heretofore called Clark's river has it's three
principal sources in mountains Hood, Jefferson & the Northern side of the S. W. Mountains and
is of course a short river. this river I shall in future call the To-wannahiooks river it being
the name by which it is called by the Eneshur nation. The Kooskooske river may be safely navigated
at present all the rocks of the shoals and rapids are perfectly covered; the current is strong,
the water clear and cold. this river is rising fast.The timber of this river which consists
principally of the long leafed pine commences about 2 miles below our present camp on Colter's
Creek. it was two oclock this evening before we could collect our horses. at 3 P.M. we set
out accompanyed by the brother of the twisted hair and We arkkoomt. I directed the horse which
we had obtained for the purpose of eating to be led as it was yet unbroke, in performing this
duty a quarrel ensued between Drewyer and Colter. we continued our march this evening along
the river 9 miles to a lodge of 6 families, built of sticks mats & dryed hay in the same form
of those heretofore discribed. we passed a lodge of 3 families at 4 ms. on the road. no provision
of any discription was to be obtained of these people. a little after dark our young horse
broke the rope by which he was confined and made his escape much to the chagrine of all who
recollected the keenness of their appetites last evening. the brother of the twisted hair and
Wearkkoomt with 10 or 12 others encamped with us this evening.-

the natives have a considerable salmon fishery up Colter's Creek. this stream extends itself
to the pirs of the rocky mountain and in much the greater part of it's course passes through
a well timbered pine country it is 25 yds. wide and discharges a large body of water. the banks
low and bed formed of pebbles.- had a small shower of rain this evening. Capt Lewis exchanged
horses with We ark koomt and gave him a small flag with which he was much pleased and gratifyed.
the Sorrel which Cap L. obtained is a Strong active well broke horse-. I gave in return for
this whip a fathom of narrow binding. The River here Calld. Clarks river is that which we have
heretofore Called Flathead river. Capt. Lewis has thought proper to Call this after myself
for this Stream we know no Indhan name and no white man but our Selves was ever on this river.
The river which Fiddler call's the great Lake river may possiably be a branch of it, but if
So it is but a very inconsiderable branch, and may as probably empty itself into the Columbia
above as into Clarks river. the Stream which the party has heretofore Called Clarks river imedeately
above the great falls, has it's three principal branches in Mountains Jefferson, Hood and the
Northern Side of the S. W. Mountains and is of course a Short river. this river is Called by
the Skillutes & Eneshure Nations Towannahhiooks which is also the name they Call those bands
of Snake indians who Come on this river every Spring to Catch the Salmon-. The Chopunnish about
the Mouth of the Kooskooske bury their dead on Stoney hill Sides generally, and as I was informed
by an Indian who made Signs that they made a hole in the Grown by takeing away the Stones and
earth where they wished to deposit the dead body after which they laid the body which was previously
raped in a robe and Secured with Cords. over the body they placed Stones So as to form a Sort
of arch on the top of which they put Stones and earth So as to Secure the body from the wolves
and birds &c. they Sometimes inclose the grave with a kind of Sepulcher like the roof of a
house formed of the canoes of the disceased. they also Sacrifice the favorite horses of the
disceased. the bones of many of which we See on and about the graves.

[Lewis, May 7, 1806] Wednesday May 7th 1806. This morning we collected our horses and set out
early accompanyed by the brother of the twisted hair as a guide; Wearkkoomt and his party left
us. we proceeded up the river 4 miles to a lodge of 6 families just below the entrance of a
small creek, here our guide recommended our passing the river. he informed us that the road
was better on the South side and that game was more abundant also on that side near the entrance
of the Chopunnish river. we determined to pursue the rout recommended by the guide and accordingly
unloaded our horses and prepared to pass the river which we effected by means of one canoe
in the course of 4 hours. a man of this lodge produced us two canisters of powder which he
informed us he had found by means of his dog where they had been buried in a bottom near the
river some miles above, they were the same which we had buryed as we decended the river last
fall. as he had kept them safe and had honesty enough to return them to us we gave him a fire
steel by way of compensation. during our detention at the river we took dinner, after which
or at 3 P.M. we renewed our march along the river about 2 ms. over a difficult stony road,
when we left the river and asscended the hills to the wright which are here mountains high.
the face of the country when you have once ascended the river hills is perfectly level and
partially covered with the longleafed pine. the soil is a dark rich loam thickly covered with
grass and herbatious plants which afford a delightfull pasture for horses. in short it is a
beautifull fertile and picteresque country. Neeshneparkeeook overtook us and after riding with
us a few miles turned off to the wright to visit some lodges of his people who he informed
me were geathering roots in the plain at a little distance from the road. our guide conducted
us through the plain and down a steep and lengthey hill to a creek which we called Musquetoe
Creek in consequence of being infested with swarms of those insects on our arrival at it. this
is but an inconsiderable stream about 6 yds. wide heads in the plains at a small distance and
discharges itself into the Kooskooke 9 miles by water below the entrance of the Chopunnish
river. we struck this creek at the distance of 5 ms. from the point at which we left the river
our cours being a little to the S. of East. ascending the creek one mile on the S. E. side
we arrived at an indian incampment of six lodges which appeared to have been recently evacuated.
here we remained all night having traveled 12 miles only. the timbered country on this side
of the river may be said to commence near this creek, and on the other side of the river at
a little distance from it the timber reaches as low as Colter's Creek. the earth in many parts
of these plains is thrown up in little mounds by some animal whose habits are similar to the
Sallemander, like that animal it is also invisible; notwithstanding I have observed the work
of this animal thoughout the whole course of my long tract from St. Louis to the Pacific ocean
I have never obtained a view of this animal. the Shoshone man of whom I have before made mention
evertook us this evening with Neeshneparkeeook and remained with us this evening.- we suped
this evening as we had dined on horse-beef. we saw several deer this evening and a great number
of the tracks of these animals we determined to remain here untill noon tomorrow in order to
obtain some venison and accordingly gave orders to the hunters to turn out early in the morning.
-he Spurs of the rocky Mountains which were in view from the high plain today were perfectly
covered with snow. the Indians inform us that the snow is yet so deep on the mountains that
we shall not be able to pass them untill the next full moon or about the first of June; others
set the time at still a more distant period. this unwelcom inteligence to men confined to a
diet of horsebeef and roots, and who are as anxious as we are to return to the fat plains of
the Missouri and thence to our native homes. The Chopunnish bury their dead in Sepulchres formed
of boards like the roofs of houses. the corps is rolled in skins and laid on boards above the
surface of the earth. they are laid in several teer one over another being seperated by a board
only above and below from other corps. I did observe some instances where the body was laid
in an indifferent woden box which was placed among other carcased rolled in skin in the order
just mentioned. they sacrifice horses canoes and every other speceis of property to their ded.
the bones of many horses are seen laying about those sepulchres. this evening was cold as usual.

I observed in all the Lodges which we have passed Since we Crossed Lewis's river decoys, or
Stocking heads as they are Sometimes called. these decoys are for the deer and is formed of
the Skin of the head and upper portion of the neck of that animale extended in the nateral
Shape by means of a fiew little Sticks placed within. the hunter when he Sees a deer conseals
himself and with his hand givs to the decoy the action of a deer at feed, and this induces
the deer within arrowshot; in this mode the Indians near the woody country hunt on foot in
Such places where they cannot pursue the deer with horses which is their favourite method when
the grounds will permit-.-. The orniments worn by the Chopunnish are, in their nose a Single
Shell of wampom, the pirl & beeds are Suspended from the ears. beads are worn arround their
wrists, neck and over their Sholders crosswise in the form of a double Sash-. the hair of the
men is Cewed in two rolls which hang on each side in front of the body. Collars of bears Claws
are also Common; but the article of dress on which they appear to bestow most pains and orniments
is a kind of collar or brestplate; this is most Commonly a Strip of otter skins of about Six
inches Wide taken out of the Center of the Skin it's whole length including the head. this
is dressed with the hair on, this is tied around the neck & hangs in front of the body the
tail frequently reaching below their knees; on this Skin in front is attatched pieces of pirl,
beeds, wampom, pices of red Cloth and in Short whatever they conceive most valuable or ornamental-.-.

[Lewis, May 8, 1806] Thursday May 8th 1806. Most of the hunters turned out by light this morning
a few others remained without our permission or knoledge untill late in the morning, we chid
them severely for their indolence and inattention to the order of last evening. about 8 OCk.
Sheilds returned with a small deer on which we breakfasted. by 11 A.M. all our hunters returned,
Drewyer and Cruzatte brought each a deer, Collins wounded another which my dog caught at a
little distance from the camp. our stock of provision now consisted of 4 deer and the remnant
of the horse which we killed at Colter's Creek. Sheilds killed a duck of an uncommon kind.
the head beak and wing of which I preserved. the beak is remarkably wide and obtusely pointed,
on it's edges it is furnished with a sceries of teeth very long and fine not unlike the teeth
of a comb. the belley is of a brick red, the lower part of the neck white, the upper part or
but of the wing is a sky blue, underneath which a narrow stripe of white succeeds marking the
wing transversly, the large feathers are of a dark colour. tail short and pointed and consists
of 12 dark brown feathers. the back is black and sides white; legs yellow and feet formed like
the Duckinmallard which it also resembles in size and form. the eye is moderately large, puple
black and iris of an orrange colour. the colours and appearance of the female is precisely
that of the duckinmallard only, reather smaller. we are informed that the natives in this quarter
were much distressed for food in the course of the last winter; they were compelled to collect
the moss which grows on the pine which they boiled and eat; near this camp I observed many
pine trees which appear to have been cut down about that season which they inform us was done
in order to collect the seed of the longleafed pine which in those moments of distress also
furnishes an article of food; the seed of this speceis of pine is about the size and much the
shape of the seed of the large sunflower; they are nutricious and not unpleasent when roasted
or boiled, during this month the natives also peal this pine and eat the succulent or inner
bark. in the creek near our encampment I observed a falling trap constructed on the same plan
with those frequent seen in the atlantic states for catching the fish decending the stream
Capt. C. took several small trout from this trap. Neesh-ne-park-kee-ook and several other indians
joined us this morning. we gave this cheif and the indians with us some venison, horsebeef,
the entrels of the four deer, and four fawns which were taken from two of the does that were
killed, they eat none of their food raw, tho the entrals had but little preperation and the
fawns were boiled and consumed hair hide and entrals. these people sometimes eat the flesh
of the horse tho they will in most instances suffer extreem hunger before they will kill their
horses for that purpose, this seems reather to proceede from an attatchment to this animal,
than a dislike to it's flesh for I observe many of them eat very heartily of the horsebeef
which we give them. The Shoshone man was displeased because we did not give him as much venison
as he could eat and in consequence refused to interpret, we took no further notice of him and
in the course of a few hours he became very officious and seemed anxious to reinstate himself
in our good opinons. the relation of the twisted hair and Neeshneparkkeook gave us a sketch
of the principall watercourses West of the Rocky Mountains a copy of which I preserved; they
make the main Southwardly branch of Lewis's river much more extensive than the other, and place
many villages of the Shoshonees on it's western side. at half after 3 P.M. we departed; for
the lodge of the Twisted hair accompanyed by the Cheif and sundry other indians. the relation
of the twisted hair left us. the road led us up a steep and high hill to a high and level plain
mostly untimbered, through which we passed parrallel with the river about 4 miles when we met
the Twisted hair and a party of six men. to this Cheif we had confided the care of our horses
and a part of our saddles when we decended the river last fall. the Twisted hair received us
very coolly an occurrence as unexpected as it was unaccountable to us. he shortly began to
speak with a loud voice and in a angry manner, when he had ceased to speak he was answered
by the Cutnose Cheif or Neeshneparkkeook; we readily discovered that a violet quarrel had taken
place between these Cheifs but at that instant knew not the cause; we afterwards learnt that
it was on the subject of our horses. this contreversy between the cheifs detained us about
20 minutes; in order to put an end to this dispute as well as to releive our horses from the
embarasment of their loads, we informed the Cheifs that we should continue our march to the
first water and encamp accordingly we moved on and the Indians all followed. about two miles
on the road we arrived at a little branch which run to the wright. here we encamped for the
evening having traveled 6 miles today. the two cheifs with their little bands formed seperate
camps at a short distance from ours, they all appeared to be in an ill humour. we had been
informed some days since that the natives had discovered the deposit of our saddles and taken
them away and that our horses were much scattered. we were very anxious to learn the particulars
or truth of these reports from the twisted hair, as it must in some measure govern us in the
establishment of our perminent camp which in consequence of our detention by the snow of the
mountains has become necessary. to obtain our horses and saddles as quickly as possible is
our wish, and we are somewhat apprehensive that this difference which has taken place between
these Chiefs may millitate against our operations in this rispect. we were therefore desireous
to bring about a good understanding between them as soon as possible. The Shoshone boy refused
to speak, he aledged it was a quarrel between two Cheifs and that he had no business with it;
it was in vain that we urged that his interpreting what we said on this subject was not taking
the responsibil ity of the inteference on himself, he remained obstenately silent. about an
hour after we had encamped Drewyer returned from hunting we sent him to the Twisted hair to
make some enquiries relative to our horses and saddles and to ask him to come and smoke with
us. The Twisted hair accepted the invitation and came to our fire. The twisted hair informed
us that accordingly to the promis he had made us when he seperated from us at the falls of
the Columbia he collected our horses on his return and took charge of them, that about this
time the Cutnose or Neeshneparkkeook and Tun-nach'-emoo-tools or the broken arm returned from
a war excurtion against the Shoshonees on the South branch of Lewis's river which had caused
their absence when we were in this neighbourhood. that these men became dissatisfyed with him
in consequence of our having confided the horses to his care and that they were eternally quarreling
with him insomuch that he thought it best as he was an old man to relinquish any further attention
to the horses, that they had consequently become scattered; that most of the horses were near
this place, a part were in the forks between the Chopunnish and Kooskooske rivers and three
or four others were at the lodge of the broken Arm about half a days march higher up the river.
he informed us with rispect to our saddles that on the rise of the water this spring the earth
had fallen from the door of the cash and exposed the saddles, he being informed of their situation
had taken them up and placed them in another cash where they were at this time; he said it
was probable that a part of them had fallen into the water but of this he was not certain.
The Twisted hair said if we would spend the day tomorrow at his lodge which was a few miles
only from hence and on the road leading to the Broken arm's lodge, he would collect such of
our horses as were near this place and our saddles, that he would also send some young men
over the Kooskooske to collect those in the forks and bring them to the lodge of the broken
Arm to met us. he advised us to go to the lodge of the broken Arm as he said he was a Cheif
of great emenence among them, and promised to accompany us thither if we wished him. we told
him that we should take his advice in every particular, that we had confided the horses to
his care and expected that he would collect them and deliver them to us which when he performed
we should pay him the two guns and amunition we had promised him for that service. he seemed
much pleased and promised his utmost exertions. we sent Drewyer to the Cutnose who also came
to our fire and smoked with ourselves and the Twisted hair we took occasion in the course of
the evening to express our regret that there should be a misunderstanding between these Cheifs;
the Cutnose told us in the presents of the Twisted hair that he the twisted hair was a bad
old man that he woar two faces, that in stead of taking care of our horses as he had promised
us that he had suffered his young men to ride them hunting and had injured them very much;
that this was the cause why himself and the Broken arm had forbid his using them. the other
made no reply. we informed the Cutnose of our intention of spending tomorrow at the Twisted
hair's lodge in order to collect our horses and saddles and that we should proceede the next
day to the Broken Arm's lodge, he appeared well satisfyed with this arrangement and said he
would continue with us, and would give us any assistance in his power; he said he knew the
broken arm expected us at his lodge and that he had two bad horses for us, metaphorically speaking
a present of two good horses. he said the broken arm had learnt our want of provision and had
sent four of his young men with a supply to meet us but that they had taken a different road
and had missed us.- about 10 P.M. our guests left us and we layed down to rest.

[Clark, May 8, 1806] Thursday 8th of May 1806. This morning our hunters was out by the time
it was light. about 8 oClock Shields brought in a Small deer, on which we brackfast by 11 A.M.
all our hunters returned Drewyer & P. Crusat brought in a Deer each & Collins wounded one which
our Dog Caught near our Camp. Total of our Stock of provisions 4 deer & Some horse flesh. on
the Small Creek which passes our Camp, the nativs have laterly encamped and as we are informed
have been much distressed for provisions, they have fallen a number of Small pine in the vicinity
of this Encampment for the Seed which is in the bur of which they eate. we are informed that
they were Compelled to Collect the moss off the pine boil & eate it in the latter part of the
last Winter. on the Creek near our Camp I observed a kind of trap which was made with great
panes to catch the Small fish which pass down with the Stream This was a dam formed of Stone
So as to Collect the water in a narrow part not exceeding 3 feet wide from which place the
water Shot with great force and Scattered through Some Small willows Closely connected and
fastened with bark. this mat of willow Switches was about 4 feet wide and 6 long lying in a
horozontal position, fastened at the extremety. the Small fish which fell on those willows
was washed on the Willows where they untill taken off &c. I cought or took off those willows
9 Small trout from 3 to 7 Inches in length. Soon after I returned from the fishery an Indian
came from a fishery of a Similar kind a little above with 12 Small fish which he offered me
which I declined axcepting as I found from his Signs that his house was a Short distance above,
and that those fisheries afforded the principal part of the food for his Children. The Great
Chief of the Bands below who has a cut nose joined us this morning. we gave the interals with
4 young fauns which was in two of the deer killed to day to the Indians also some of our deer
& horse flesh. the Paunch of the deer they eate without any preperation further than washing
them a little. the fauns they boiled and eate every part of them even the Skins with the hair.
The Snake Indian was much displeased that he was not furnished with as much Deer as he could
eate. he refused to Speake to the wife of Shabono, through whome we Could understand the nativs.
we did not indulge him and in the after part of the day he Came too and Spoke verry well. one
of the Indians drew me a Sketch of the river (See the latter part of this book) in this Sketch
he makes the 1st large Southerly fork of Lewis's river much the longest and on which great
numbers of the Snake Indians reside &c. at  P.M. we loaded up and Set on on the roade leading
as we were informed to the lodge of the twisted hair, the Chief in whoes Care we had left our
horses. we were accompanied by the Cut nose Chief our old Chief who had accompanied us down
the river and Several men. we assended the hills which was Steep and emencely high to a leavel
rich Country thinly timbered with pine. we had not proceeded more than 4 miles before we met
the twisted hair and Several men meeting of us. we were verry coolly recved by the twisted
hair. he Spoke aloud and was answered by the Cut Nose. we Could not learn what they Said. but
plainly discovered that a missunderstanding had taken place between them. we made Signs to
them that we Should proceed on to the next water and encamp. accordingly I set out and they
all followed. we had not proceeded far before the road Crossed a Small handsom Stream on which
we encamped. The parties of those two Chiefs took different positions at Some distance from
each other and all appeared Sulkey. after we had formed our Camp we Sent Drewyer with a pipe
to Smoke with the twisted hair and lern the Cause of the dispute between him and the Cut nose,
and also to invite him to our fire to Smoke with us. The twisted hair came to our fire to Smoke
we then Sent drewyer to the Cut Noses fire with the Same directions. he returned and informed
us that the Cut nose Said he would join us in a fiew minits. it appears that the Cause of the
quarrel between those two men is about our horses. and we cannot lern the particulars of this
quarrel which probably originated through jelousy on the part of the Cut nose who blames the
twisted hair for Suffer our horses to be rode, and want water dureing the Winter &c. twisted
hair Says the horses were taken from him &c. The Cut nose joined us in a Short time We Smoked
with all the party of both Chiefs, and told them that we were Sorry to find them at varience
with each other the cut nose said that the twisted hair was a bad man and wore two fases, that
he had not taken care of our horses as was expected. that himself an the broken arm had Caused
our horses to be Watered in the winter and had them drove together, and that if we would proceed
on to the village of the great Chief whome we had left a flag last fall the broken arm he would
Send for our horses, that he had himself three of them. he also informed us that the great
Chief hering of our distressed Situation had Sent his Son and 4 men to meet us and have us
furnished on the way &c. that the young men had missed us and Could never over take us untill
this time. that the great chief had 2 bad horses for us and expected us to go to his lodge
which was near the river and about half a days march above &c. The twisted hair told us that
he wished to Smoke with us at his lodge which was on the road leading to the Great Chiefs lodge,
and but a fiew miles a head. if we would delay at his lodge tomorrow he would go after our
Saddles and horses which was near the place we made our Canoes last fall. we deturmined to
Set out early in the morning and proceed on to the lodge of the twisted hair and Send for our
Saddles and powder which we had left burried mear the forks. and the day after tomorrow to
proceed on to the lodge of the Grand Chief. accordingly we informed the Indians of our intentions.
we all Smoked and conversed untill about 10 P M. the Indians retired and we lay down. Derected
5 hunters to turn out early in the morning to hunt and meet us at the twisted hair's lodge.

[Lewis, May 9, 1806] Friday May 9th 1806. We sent out several hunters early this morning with
instructions to meet us at the lodge of the Twisted hair. Collecting our horses detained us
untill 9 A.M. when we charged our packhorses and set out. our rout lay through a level rich
country similar to that of yesterday; at the distance of 6 miles we arrived at the lodge of
the twisted hair; this habitation was built in the usual form with sticks mats and dryed hay,
and contained 2 firs and about 12 persons. even at this small habitation there was an appendage
of the soletary lodge, the retreat of the tawny damsels when nature causes them to be driven
into coventry; here we halted as had been previously concerted, and one man with 2 horses accompayed
the twisted hair to the canoe camp, about 4 ms. in quest of the saddles. the Twisted hair sent
two young men in surch of our horses agreeably to his promis. The country along the rocky mountains
for several hundred miles in length and about 50 in width is level extreemly fertile and in
many parts covered with a tall and open growth of the longleafed pine. near the watercouses
the hills are steep and lofty tho are covered with a good soil not remarkably stony and possess
more timber than the level country. the bottom lands on the watercourses are reather narrow
and confined tho fertile & seldom inundated. this country would form an extensive settlement;
the climate appears quite as mild as that of similar latitude on the Atlantic coast if not
more so and it cannot be otherwise than healthy; it possesses a fine dry pure air. the grass
and many plants are now upwards of knee high. I have no doubt but this tract of country if
cultivated would produce in great abundance every article essentially necessary to the comfort
and subsistence of civillized man. to it's present inhabitants nature seems to have dealt with
a liberal hand, for she has distributed a great variety of esculent plants over the face of
the country which furnish them a plentiful) store of provision; these are acquired with but
little toil, and when prepared after the method of the natives afford not only a nutricious
but an agreeable food. among other roots those called by them the Quawmash and Cows are esteemed
the most agreeable and valuable as they are also the most abundant. the cows is a knobbed root
of an irregularly rounded form not unlike the Gensang in form and consistence. this root they
collect, rub of a thin black rhind which covers it and pounding it expose it in cakes to the
sun. these cakes ate about an inch and 1/4 thick and 6 by 18 in width, when dryed they either
eat this bread alone without any further preperation, or boil it and make a thick muselage;
the latter is most common and much the most agreeable. the flavor of this root is not very
unlike the gensang.- this root they collect as early as the snows disappear in the spring and
continue to collect it until) the quawmash supplys it's place which happens about the latter
end of June. the quawmash is also collected for a few weaks after it first makes it's appearance
in the spring, but when the scape appears it is no longer fit for use untill the seed are ripe
which happens about the time just mentioned, and then the cows declines. the latter is also
frequently dryed in the sun and pounded afterwards and then used in making soope.- I observed
a few trees of the larch and a few small bushes of the balsam fir near the lodge of the Twisted
hair. at 2 P.M. our hunters joined us Drewyer killed a deer but lost it in the river. a few
pheasants was the produce of the hunt. we procured a few roots of cows of which we made scope.
late in the evening The Twisted hair and Willard returned; they brought about half of our saddles,
and some powder and lead which had been buried at that place. my saddle was among the number
of those which were lost. about the same time the young men arrived with 21 of our horses.
the greater part of our horses were in fine order. five of them appeared to have been so much
injured by the indians riding them last fall that they had not yet recovered and were in low
order. three others had soar backs. we had these horses caught and hubbled. the situation of
our camp was a disagreeable one in an open plain; the wind blew violently and was cold. at
seven P.M. it began to rain and hail, at 9 it was succeeded by a heavy shower of snow which
continued untill the next morning.- several indians joined us this evening from the village
of the broken arm or Tunnachemootoolt and continued all night. The man who had imposed himself
on us as a relation of the twisted hair rejoined us this evening we found him an impertinent
proud supercilious fellow and of no kind of rispectability in the nation, we therefore did
not indulge his advances towards a very intimate connection. The Cutnose lodged with the twisted
hair I beleive they have become good friends again. several indians slept about us.

[Clark, May 9, 1806] Friday 9th May 1806 The hunters Set out very early agreeable to their
derections. we were detained untill 9 A.M. for our horses which were much Scattered at which
time we Collected our horses and Set out and proceeded on through a butifull open rich Country
for 6 miles to the Camp of the twisted hair. this Campment is formed of two Lodges built in
the usial form of mats and Straw. the largest and principal Lodge is Calculated for 2 fires
only and Contains about  persons. the Second lodge is Small & appears to be intended for the
Sick women who always retire to a Seperate lodge when they have the  this Custom is Common
to all the nations on this river as well as among all other Indian nations with whom I am acquainted.
at the distance of 2 miles we passd. a lodge of 2 fires on a fork of the road which leads to
the right Situated on a Small branch which falls into Musquetor Creek. before 2 P M all our
hunters joined us haveing killed only one deer which was lost in the river and a pheasent.
Soon after we halted at the lodge of the twisted hair he Set out with two boys and Willard
with a pack horse down to the river near the place we made the Canoes for our Saddles and a
Cannister of powder and Some lead buried there, also a part of our horses which resorted near
that place. late in the evening they returned with 21 of our horse and about half of our Saddles
with the powder and ball. The greater part of the horses were in fine order, tho five of them
had been rode & worsted in Such a manner last fall by the Inds. that they had not recovered
and are in very low order, and 3 with Sore backs. we had all the recovered horses Cought &
hobbled. we precured Some pounded roots of which a Supe was made thick on which we Suped. the
wind blew hard from the S. W. accompanied with rain untill from 7 oClock untill 9 P.M. when
it began to Snow and Continued all night. Several Indians Came from the village of the Chief
with whome we had left a flag and Continued with us all night. they slept in the house of the
twisted hair and two of them along Side of us.

[Lewis, May 10, 1806] Saturday May 10th 1806. This morning the snow continued falling 1/2 after
6 A.M. when it ceased, the air keen and cold, the snow 8 inches deep on the plain; we collected
our horses and after taking a scant breakfast of roots we set out for the village of Tunnachemootoolt;
our rout lay through an open plain course S. 35 E. and distance 16 ms. the road was slippery
and the snow clogged to the horses feet, and caused them to trip frequently. the mud at the
sources of the little ravines was deep black and well supplyed with quawmash. Drewyer turned
off to the left of the road in order to hunt and did not join us this evening. at 4 in the
afternoon we decended the hills to Commearp Creek and arrived at the Village of Tunnachemootoolt,
the cheeif at whos lodge we had left a flag last fall. this flag was now displayed on a staff
placed at no great distance from the lodge. underneath the flag the Cheif met my friend Capt.
C. who was in front and conducted him about 80 yds. to a place on the bank of the creek where
he requested we should encamp; I came up in a few minutes and we collected the Cheifs and men
of consideration smoked with them and stated our situation with rispect to provision. the Cheif
spoke to his people and they produced us about 2 bushels of the Quawmas roots dryed, four cakes
of the bread of cows and a dryed salmon trout. We thanked them for this store of provision
but informed them that our men not being accustomed to live on roots alone we feared it would
make them sick, to obviate which we proposed exchangeing a good horse in reather low order
for a young horse in tolerable order with a view to kill. the hospitality of the cheif revolted
at the aydea of an exchange, he told us that his young men had a great abundance of young horses
and if we wished to eat them we should by furnished with as many as we wanted. accordingly
they soon produced us two fat young horses one of which we killed, the other we informed them
we would pospone killing untill we had consumed the one already killed. This is a much greater
act of hospitality than we have witnessed from any nation or tribe since we have passed the
Rocky mountains. in short be it spoken to their immortal honor it is the only act which deserves
the appellation of hospitallity which we have witnessed in this quarter. we informed these
people that we were hungry and fatiegued at this moment, that when we had eaten and refreshed
ourselves we would inform them who we were, from whence we had come and the objects of our
resurches. a principal Cheif by name Ho-hast,-ill-pilp arrived with a party of fifty men mounted
on eligant horses. he had come on a visit to us from his village which is situated about six
miles distant near the river. we invited this man into our circle and smoked with him, his
retinue continued on horseback at a little distance. after we had eaten a few roots we spoke
to them as we had promised; and gave Tinnachemootoolt and Hohastillpilp each a medal; the former
one of the small size with the likeness of Mr. Jefferson and the latter one of the sewing medals
struck in the presidency of Washington, we explained to them the desighn and the importance
of medals in the estimation of the whites as well as the red men who had been taught their
value. The Cheif had a large conic lodge of leather erected for our reception and a parsel
of wood collected and laid at the door after which he invited Capt. C. and myself to make that
lodge our home while we remained with him. we had a fire lighted in this lodge and retired
to it accompanyed by the Cheifs and as many of the considerate men as could croud in a circcle
within it. here after we had taken a repast on some horsebeef we resumed our council with the
indians which together with smoking the pipe occupyed the ballance of the evening. I was surprised
to find on decending the hills of Commearp Cr. to find that there had been no snow in the bottoms
of that stream. it seems that the snow melted in falling and decended here in rain while it
snowed on the plains. the hills are about six hundred feet high about one fourth of which distance
the snow had decended and still lay on the sides of the hills. as these people had been liberal
with is with rispect to provision I directed the men not to croud their lodge surch of food
in the manner hunger has compelled them to do at most lodges we have passed, and which the
Twisted hair had informed me was disgreeable to the natives. but their previous want of hospitality
had induced us to consult their enclinations but little and suffer our men to obtain provision
from them on the best terms they could. The village of the broken arm as I have heretofore
termed it consists of one house only which is 150 feet in length built in the usual form of
sticks matts and dry grass. it contains twenty four fires and about double that number of families.
from appearances I presume they could raise 100 fighting men. the noise of their women pounding
roots reminds me of a nail factory. Drewyer turned off the road to hunt near the river to our
lef and did not join us to day. at 4 P M we arrived at the Village of Tin nach-e-moo-toolt
the Chief whome We had left a flag. this flag was hoisted on a pole unde the flag the Chief
met me and Conducted me to a Spot near a Small run about 80 paces from his Lodges where he
requested me to halt which I did. Soon after Cap Lewis who was in the rear Came up and we Smoked
with and told this Chief our Situation in respect to provisions. they brought foward about
2 bushels of quawmash 4 Cakes of bread made of roots and a dried fish. we informed the Chief
that our Party was not accustomed to eate roots without flesh & proposed to exchange Some of
our oald horses for young ones to eate. they Said that they would not exchange horses, but
would furnish us with Such as we wished, and produced 2 one of which we killed and informd.
them that we did not wish to kill the other at this time. we gave Medals to the broken arm
or Tin-nach-e-moo tolt and Hoh-halt-ill-pitp two principal Chiefs of the Chopunnish Natn. and
was informed that there was one other Great Chief (in all 4) who had but one eye. he would
be here tomorrow. a large Lodge of Leather was pitched and Capt. Lewis and my Self was envited
into it. we entered and the Chief and principal men came into the lodge and formed a Circle
a parcel of wood was Collected and laid at the dore and a fire made in this Conic lodge before
we entered it. the Chief requested that we might make the Lodge our homes while we remained
with him. here after we had taken a repast on roots & horse beef we resumed our Council with
the indians which together with Smokeing took up the ballance of the evening.

The Village of the broken Arm consists of one house or Lodge only which is 150 feet in length
built in the usial form of Sticks, Mats and dry grass. it contains 24 fires and about double
that number of families. from appearance I prosume they could raise 100 fighting men. the noise
of their women pounding the cows roots remind me of a nail factory. The Indians appear well
pleased, and I am Confident that they are not more so than our men who have their Stomach once
more well filled with horse beef and the bread of cows.

[Lewis, May 11, 1806] Sunday May 11th 1806. The last evening we were much crouded with the
indians in our lodge, the whole floor of which was covered with their sleeping carcases. we
arrose early and took breakfast. at 8 A.M. a Cheif of great note among these people arrived
from his village or lodge on the S. side of Lewis's River. this is a stout fellow of good countenance
about 40 years of age and has lost the left eye. his name is Yoom-park'-kar-tim. to this man
we gave a medal of the smal kind. those with the likeness of Mr. Jefferson have all been disposed
of except one of the largest size which we reserve for some great Cheif on the Yellow rock
river. we now pretty fully informed ourselves that Tunnachemootoolt, Neeshneparkkeeook, Yoomparkkartim
and Hohastillpilp were the principal Cheif of the Chopunnish nation and ranked in the order
here mentioned; as all those cheifs were present in our lodge we thought it a favourable time
to repeat what had been said yesterday and to enter more minutely into the views of our government
with rispect to the inhabitants of this western part of the continent, their intention of establishing
trading houses for their releif, their wish to restore peace and harmony among the natives,
the strength power and wealth of our nation &c. to this end we drew a map of the country with
a coal on a mat in their way and by the assistance of the snake boy and our interpretters were
enabled to make ourselves understood by them altho it had to pass through the French, Minnetare,
Shoshone and Chopunnish languages. the interpretation being tedious it ocupyed nearly half
the day before we had communicated to them what we wished. they appeared highly pleased. after
this council was over we amused ourselves with shewing them the power of magnetism, the spye
glass, compass, watch, air-gun and sundry other articles equally novel and incomprehensible
to them. they informed us that after we had left the Minnetares last spring that three of their
people had visited that nation and that they had informed them of us and had told them that
we had such things in our possession but that they could not place confidence in the information
untill they had now witnessed it themselves.- A young man, son of a conspicuous Cheif among
these people who was killed not long since by the Minnetares of Fort de Prarie, brought and
presented us a very fine mare and colt. he said he had opened his ears to our councils and
would observe them strictly, and that our words had made his heart glad. he requested that
we would accept this mear and colt which he gave in token of his determination to pursue our
advise.- about 3 P.M. Drewyer arrived with 2 deer which he had killed. he informed us that
the snow still continued to cover the plain. many of the natives apply to us for medical aid
which we gave them cheerfully so far as our skill and store of medicine would enable us. schrofela,
ulsers, rheumatism, soar eyes, and the loss of the uce of their limbs are the most common cases
among them. the latter case is not very common but we have seen thee instances of it among
the Chopunnish. it is a very extraordinary complaint. a Cheif of considerable note at this
place has been afflicted with it for three years, he is incapable of moving a single limb but
lies like a corps in whatever position he is placed, yet he eats heartily, digests his food
perfectly, injoys his understanding, his pulse are good, and has retained his flesh almost
perfectly, in short were it not that he appears a little pale from having lain so long in the
shade he might well be taken for a man in good health. I suspect that their confinement to
a diet of roots may give rise to all those disorders except the rheumatism & soar eyes, and
to the latter of these, the state of debility incident to a vegetable diet may measureably
contribute.- The Chopunnish notwithstanding they live in the crouded manner before mentioned
are much more clenly in their persons and habitations than any nation we have seen since we
left the Ottoes on the river Platte.- The Twisted hair brought us six of our horses.

[Clark, May 11, 1806] Sunday 11th May 1806 Some little rain last night. we were Crouded in
the Lodge with Indians who continued all night and this morning Great numbers were around us.
The One Eyed Chief Yoom-park-kar-tim arived and we gave him a medal of the Small Size and Spoke
to the Indians through a Snake boy Shabono and his wife. we informed them who we were, where
we Came from & our intentions towards them, which pleased them very much. a young man Son to
the great Chief who was killed not long Sence by the Indians from the N. E. brought an elegant
mare and Coalt and Gave us. and Said he had opend. his ears to what we had Said and his heart
was glad and requested us to take this mare and Coalt as a token of his deturmination to pursue
our Councels &c. The twisted hair brough Six of our horses all in fine order. Great numbers
of Indians apply to us for medical aide which we gave them Cherfully So far as our Skill and
Store of Medicine would enable us. Schrofla, ulsers, rhumitism, Sore eyes, and the loss of
the use of their Limbs are the most common cases among them. the latter Case is not very common
but We have Seen 3 instances of it among the Chopunnish. a very extroadinery complnt. about
3 P.M. Geo. drewyer arived with 2 deer which he had killed. he informed us that the Snow Still
Continued to cover the plains. I Suspect that their Confinement to a deet of roots may give
rise to all the disordes of the Nativs of this quarter except the Rhumitism & Sore eyes, and
to the latter of those, the State of debility incident to a vegitable diet may measureably
contribute.-. These nativs take their fish in the following manner to wit. a Stand Small Stage
or warf consisting of Sticks and projecting about 10 feet into the river and about 3 feet above
the water on the extremity of this the fisherman stands with his guilt or a Skooping Net which
differ but little in their form those Commonly used in our Country it is formed thus with those
nets they take the Suckers and also the Salmon trout and I am told the Salmon also.

[Lewis, May 12, 1806] Monday May 12th 1806. This morning a great number of indians collected
about us as usual. we took an early breakfast and Capt. C. began to administer eyewater to
a croud of at least 50 applicants. The Indians held a council among themselves this morning
with rispect to the subjects on which we had spoken to them yesterday. the result as we learnt
was favourable. they placed confidence in the information they had received and resolved to
pusue our advise. after this council was over the principal Cheif or the broken Arm, took the
flour of the roots of cows and thickened the scope in the kettles and baskets of all his people,
this being ended he made a harangue the purport of which was making known the deliberations
of their council and impressing the necessity of unanimity among them and a strict attention
to the resolutions which had been agreed on in councill; he concluded by inviting all such
men as had resolved to abide by the decrees of the council to come and eat and requested such
as would not be so bound to shew themselves by not partaking of the feast. I was told by one
of our men who was present, that there was not a dissenting voice on this great national question,
but all swallowed their objections if any they had, very cheerfully with their mush. during
the time of this loud and animated harangue of the Cheif the women cryed wrung their hands,
toar their hair and appeared to be in the utmost distress. after this cerimony was over the
Cheifs and considerate men came in a body to where we were seated at a little distance from
our tent, and two young men at the instance of the nation, presented us each with a fine horse.
we caused the cheifs to be seated and gave them each a flag a pound of powder and fifty balls.
we also gave powder and ball to the two young men who had presented the horses. Neeshneeparkkeeook
gave Drewyer a good horse. The band of Ten-nach-e-moo-toolt have six guns which they acquired
from the Minnetaries and appear anxious to obtain arms and amunition. after they had received
those presents the Cheifs requested we would retire to the tent whither they accompanied us,
they now informed us that they wished to give an answer to what we had said to them the preceeding
day, but also informed us that there were many of their people waiting in great pain at that
moment for the aid of our medecine. it was agreed between Capt. C. and myself that he should
attend the sick as he was their favorite phisician while I would here and answer the Cheifs.
The father of Hohastillpilp was the orrator on this occasion. he observed that they had listened
with attention to our advise and that the whole nation were resolved to follow it, that they
had only one heart and one tongue on this subject. he said they were fully sensible of the
advantages of peace and that the ardent desire which they had to cultivate peace with their
neighbours had induced his nation early last summer to send a pipe by 3 of their brave men
to the Shoshonees on the S. side of Lewis's river in the Plains of Columbia, that these people
had murdered these men, which had given rise to the war expedition against that nation last
fall; that their warriors had fallen in with the shoshonees at that time and had killed 42
of them with the loss of 3 only on their part; that this had satisfyed the blood of their disceased
friends and that they would never again make war against the Shoshonees, but were willing to
receive them as friends. that they valued the lives of their young men too much to wish them
to be engaged in war. That as we had not yet seen the black foot Indians and the Minnetares
of Fort de Prarie they did not think it safe to venture over to the Plains of the Missouri,
where they would fondly go provided those nations would not kill them. that when we had established
our forts on the Missouri as we had promised, they would come over and trade for arms Amunition
&c. and live about us. that it would give them much pleasure to be at peace with these nations
altho they had shed much of their blood. he said that the whitemen might be assured of their
warmest attatchment and that they would alwas give them every assistance in their power; that
they were poor but their hearts were good. he said that some of their young men would go over
with us to the Missouri and bring them the news as we wished, and that if we could make a peace
between themselves and their enimies on the other side of the mountain their nation would go
over to the Missouri in the latter end of the summer. on the subject of one of their cheifs
accompanying us to the Land of the whitemen they could not yet determine, but that they would
let us know before we left them. that the snow was yet so deep in the mountain if we attempted
to pass we would certainly perish, and advised us to remain untill after the next full moon
when the said the snow would disappear and we could find grass for our horses.- when the oald
man had concluded I again spoke to them at some length with which they appeared highly gratifyed.
after smoking the pipe which was about 2 P.M. they gave us another fat horse to kill which
was thankfully received by the party. Capt C. now joined us having just made an end of his
medical distrabution. we gave a phiol of eyewater to the Broken Arm, and requested that he
would wash the eyes of such as might apply for that purpose, and that when it was exhausted
we would replenish the phiol. he was much pleased with this present. we now gave the Twisted
hair one gun and a hundred balls and 2 lbs. of powder in part for his attention to our horses
and promised the other gun and a similar quantity of powder and lead when we received the ballance
of our horses. this gun we had purchased of the indians below for 2 Elkskins. this evening
three other of our original stock of horses were produced, they were in fine order as well
as those received yesterday. we have now six horses out only, as our old guide Toby and his
son each took a horse of ours when they returned last fall. these horses are said to be on
the opposite side of the river at no great distance from this place. we gave the young men
who had delivered us the two horses this morning some ribbon, blue wampum and vermillion, one
of them gave me a hansome pare of legings and the Broken Arm gave Capt. C. his shirt, in return
for which we gave him a linin shirt.- we informed the indians of our wish to pass the river
and form a camp at some proper place to fish, hunt, and graize our horses untill the snows
of the mountains would permit us to pass. they recommended a position a few miles distant from
hence on the opposite side of the river, but informed us that there was no canoe at this place
by means of which we could pass our baggage over the river, but promised to send a man early
in the morning for one which they said would meet us at the river by noon the next day. The
indians formed themselves this evening into two large parties and began to gamble for their
beads and other ornaments. the game at which they played was that of hiding a stick in their
hands which they frequently changed acompanying their opperations with a song. this game seems
common to all the nations in this country, and dose not differ from that before discribed of
the Shoshonees on the S. E. branch of Lewis's river. we are anxious to procure some guides
to accompany us on the different routs we mean to take from Travellers rest; for this purpose
we have turned our attention to the Twisted hair who has several sons grown who are well acquainted
as well as himself with the various roads in those mountains. we invited the old fellow to
remove his family and live near us while we remained; he appeared gratifyed with this expression
of our confidence and promissed to do so.- shot at a mark with the indians, struck the mark
with 2 balls. distn. 220 yds.

[Clark, May 12, 1806] Monday 12th May 1806 a fine Morning great number of Indians flock about
us as usial. after brackfast I began to administer eye water and in a fiew minits had near
40 applicants with Sore eyes, and maney others with other Complaints most Common Rhumatic disorders
& weaknesses in the back and loins perticularly the womin. the Indians had a grand Council
this morning after which we were presented each with a horse by two young men at the instance
of the nation. we caused the chiefs to be Seated and gave then each a flag a pint of Powder
and 50 balls to the two young men who had presented the horses we also gave powder and ball.
The broken arm or Tun na the mootoolt pulled off his leather Shirt and gave me. I in return
gave him a Shirt. we retired into the Lodge and the natives Spoke to the following purpote,
i e they had listened to our advice and that the whole nation were deturmined to follow it,
that they had only one heart and one tongue on this Subject. explained the Cause of the War
with the Shoshones. they wished to be at peace with all nations & Some of their Men would accompany
us to the Missouri &c. &c. as a great number of men women & Children were wateing and requesting
medical assistance maney of them with the most Simple Complaints which Could be easily releived,
independent of maney with disorders intirely out of the power of Medison all requesting Some
thing, we agreed that I Should administer and Capt L- to here and answer the Indians. I was
closely employed until 12 P.M. administering eye water to about 40 grown persons. Some Simple
Cooling Medicenes to the disabled Chief, to Several women with rhumatic effections & a man
who had a Swelled hip &c. &c-. in the evening three of our horses were brought all in fine
order. we have now only Six remaining out. we gave to each a Chief a pint of Powder and 50
Balls a Small flag and to the two young men who delivered us the horses we gave also powder
& Ball and Some blue wompom & ribin. all appeared much pleased-. Those people are much affraid
of the black foot indians, and the Big bellies of Fort deprarie establishment. those indians
kill great numbers of this nation whenever they pass over to hunt on the Missouri. one of our
men bought a horse for a fiew Small articles of an Indian. The Indians brought up a fat horse
and requested us to kill and eate it as they had nothing else to offer us to eate. The Cut
nose made a present of a horse to Drewyer at the Same time the two horses were offered to Capt.
Lewis & my self. The horses of those people are large well formed and active. Generally in
fine order. Sore backs Caused by rideing them either with out Saddles, or with pads which does
not prevent the wate of the rider pressing imedeately on the back bone, and weathers of the
horse. the Indians formed two partis and plaied for their heeds. we gave the twisted hair a
gun, powder & 100 ball in part for takeing care of our horses &c.

and wish him to Camp near us untill we Crossed the Mountains which he agreeed to do, and was
much pleased we have turned our attentions towards the twisted hair who has Several Sons grown
who are well acquainted as well as himself with the various roads through the rocky Mountains
and will answer very well as guides to us through those Mountains-In the Council to day the
father of Hohastillpelp Said the Chopunnish were fully Convinced of the advantages of peace
and ardently wished to cultivate peace with their neighbours. early last Summer 3 of their
brave men were Sent with a pipe to the Shoshones on the S E. fork of Lewis's river in the Plains
of Columbia, their pipe was disreguarded and their 3 men murdered, which had given rise to
the War expedition against that nation last fall; that their warriers had fallen in with and
killed 42 of the Shoshones with the loss of 3 men only on their part; that this had Satisfied
the blood of the deceased friends and they would never again make war against the Shoshones,
but were willing to receve them as friends-. I gave a vial of eye water to the Broken arm for
to wash the eyes of all who applied to him and told him when it was out we would replenish it again

[Lewis, May 13, 1806] Tuesday May 13th 1806. This morning Capt. C. as usual was busily engaged
with his patients untill eleven OCk. at 1 P.M. we collected our horses and set out for the
river escorted by a number of the natives on horseback. we followed the creek downwards about
two miles, passing a stout branch at 1 m. which flowed in on the wright. our course S. E. we
now entered an extensive open bottom of the Kooskooske R. through which we passed nearly N.
about 11/2 miles and halted on the bank of the river at the place appointed to meet the canoe.
the man had set out early this morning for the purpose but had not yet arrived with the canoe
we therefore unloaded our horses and turned them out to graize. as the canoe did not arrive
untill after sunset we remained here all night; a number of the natives continued with us.
in the evening we tryed the speed of several of our horses. these horses are active strong
and well formed. these people have immence numbers of them 50, 60 or a hundred hed is not unusual
for an individual to possess. The Chopunnish are in general stout well formed active men. they
have high noses and many of them on the acqueline order with cheerfull and agreeable countenances;
their complexions are not remarkable. in common with other savage nations of America they extract
their beards but the men do not uniformly extract the hair below, this is more particularly
confined to the females. I observed several men among them whom I am convinced if they had
shaved their beards instead of extracting it would have been as well supplyed in this particular
as any of my countrymen. they appear to be cheerfull but not gay; they are fond of gambling
and of their amusements which consist principally in shooting their arrows at a bowling target
made of willow bark, and in riding and exercising themselves on horseback, racing &c. they
are expert marksmen and good riders. they do not appear to be so much devoted to baubles as
most of the nations we have met with, but seem anxious always to obtain articles of utility,
such as knives, axes, tommahawks, kettles blankets and mockerson alls. blue beads however may
form an exception to this remark; this article among all the nations of this country may be
justly compared to goald or silver among civilized nations. I observed a tippit woarn by Hohastillpilp,
which was formed of human scalps and ornamented with the thumbs and fingers of several men
which he had slain in battle. their women brade their hair in two tresses which hang in the
same position of those of the men. they also wear a cap or cup on the head formed of beargrass
and cedar bark. the men also frequently attatch some small ornament to a small plat of hair
on the center of the crown of their heads.

[Clark, May 13, 1806] Tuesday 13th May 1806. a fine morning I administered to the Sick and
gave directions. we collected all our horses and Set out at 1 P.M. and proceeded down the Creek
to the Flat head River a Short distance below the enterance of the Creek at the distance of
3 miles from the Village. at this place we expected to have met the Canoe which was promised
to be furnished us, and for which an indian Set out very early this morning. we halted at the
Flat Head River unloaded our horses and turnd. them out to feed. Several Indians accompanied
us to the river and Continued untill evening. The man who Set out early this morning to the
forks of this river for a Canoe and was to meet us at this place. as the Canoe did not arive
untill after Sun set we remained all night; in the evening we tried the Speed of Several of
our horses. these horses are strong active and well formed. Those people have emence numbers
of them 50 or 60 or a Hundred head is not unusial for an individual to possess. They are generally
well clothed in their Stile. their dress Consists of a long shirt which reaches to the middle
of leg, long legins which reach as high as the waist, mockersons & robe. those are formed of
various skins and are in all respects like those of the Shoshone. Their orniments consists
of beeds, Shells and peices of brass variously attached to their dress, to their ears arround
theire necks wrists arms &c. a band of Some kind usially Serounds the head, this is most frequently
the Skin of Some fer animal as the fox otter &c.; I observed a tippet worn by Hohastillpilp,
which was formed of Humane Scalps and ornemented with the thumbs and fingers of Several men
which he had Slain in battle. they also were a coller or breast plate of otter Skin orniminted
with Shells beeds & quills. the women brade their hair in two tresses which hang in the same
position of those of the men, which ar Cewed and hang over each sholder. &c

[Lewis, May 14, 1806] Wednesday May 14th 1806. The morning was fair, we arrose early and dispatched
a few of our hunters to the opposite side of the river, and employed a part of the men in transporting
our baggage to the opposite shore wile others were directed to collect the horses; at 10 A.M.
we had taken our baggage over and collected our horses, we then took breakfast, after which
we drove our horses into the river which they swam without accedent and all arrived safe on
the opposite shore. the river is 150 yds. wide at this place and extreemly rapid. tho it may
be safely navigated at this season, as the water covers all the rocks which lie in it's bed
to a considerable debth. we followed our horses and again collected them, after which we removed
our baggage to a position which we had previously selected for our permanent camp about half
a mile below. this was a very eligible spot for defence it had been an ancient habitation of
the indians; was sunk about 4 feet in the ground and raised arround it's outer edge about three
1/2 feet with a good wall of eath. the whole was a circle of about 30 feet in diameter. arround
this we formed our tents of sticks and grass facing outwards and deposited our baggage within
the sunken space under a shelter which we constructed for the purpose. our situation was within
40 paces of the river in an extentsive level bottom thinly timbered with the longleafed pine.
here we are in the vicinity of the best hunting grounds from indian information, are convenient
to the salmon which we expect daily and have an excellent pasture for our horses. the hills
to the E and North of us are high broken and but partially timbered; the soil is rich and affords
fine grass. in short as we are compelled to reside a while in this neighbourhood I feel perfectly
satisfyed with our position.immediately after we had passed the river Tunnachemootoolt and
Hosastillpilp arrived on the south side with a party of a douzen of their young men; they began
to sing in token of friendship as is their custom, and we sent the canoe over for them. they
left their horses and came over accompanyed by several of their party among whom were the 2
young men who had presented us with two horses in behalf of the nation; one of these was the
son of Tunnachemootoolt and the other the son of the Cheif who was killed by the Minnetares
of Fort de Prarie last year and the same who had given us the mare and Colt. we received them
at our camp and smoked with them; after some hours Hohastillpilp with much cerimony presented
me with a very eligant grey gelding which he had brought for that purpose. I gave him in return
a handkercheif 200 balls and 4 lbs. of powder. with which he appeared perfectly satisfyed.
Collins killed two bear this morning and was sent with two others in quest of the meat; with
which they returned in the evening; the mail bear was large and fat the female was of moderate
size and reather meagre. we had the fat bear fleaced in order to reserve the oil for the mountains.
both these bear were of the speceis common to the upper part of the missouri. they may be called
white black grzly brown or red bear for they are found of all those colours. perhaps it would
not be unappropriate to designate them the variagated bear. we gave the indians who were about
15 in number half the female bear, with the sholder head and neck of the other. this was a
great treat to those poor wretches who scarcely taist meat once a month. they immediately prepared
a brisk fire of dry wood on which they threw a parsel of smooth stones from the river, when
the fire had birnt down and heated the stones they placed them level and laid on a parsel of
pine boughs, on these they laid the flesh of the bear in flitches, placing boughs between each
course of meat and then covering it thickly with pine boughs; after this they poared on a small
quantity of water and covered the whoe over with earth to the debth of four inches. in this
situation they suffered it to remain about 3 hours when they took it out. I taisted of this
meat and found it much more tender than that which we had roasted or boiled, but the strong
flavor of the pine distroyed it for my pallate. Labuish returned late in the evening and informed
us that he had killed a female bear and two large cubbs, he brought with him several large
dark brown pheasants which he had also killed. Shannon also returned with a few pheasants and
two squirrells. we have found our stone horses so troublesome that we indeavoured to exchange
them with the Chopunnish for mears or gelings but they will not exchange altho we offer 2 for
one; we came to a resolution to castrate them and began the operation this evening one of the
indians present offered his services on this occasion. he cut them without tying the string
of the stone as is usual, and assures us that they will do much better in that way; he takes
care to scrape the string very clean and to seperate it from all the adhereing veigns before
he cuts it. we shall have an opportunity of judging whether this is a method preferable to
that commonly practiced as Drewyer has gelded two in the usual way. The indians after their
feast took a pipe or two with us and retired to rest much pleased with their repast. these
bear are tremendious animals to them; they esteem the act of killing a bear equally great with
that of an enimy in the field of action.- I gave the claws of those which Collins killed to
Hohastillpilp. Hohast ill pilt with much Serimoney presented Capt. Lewis with an elegant Gray
horse which he had brought for that purpose. Capt Lewis gave him in return a Handkerchief two
hundred balls and four pouds of powder with which he appeared perfictly Satisfyed, and appeared
much pleased.

Soon after I had Crossed the river and during the time Cap Lewis was on the opposit Side John
Collins whome we had Sent out verry early this morning with Labiech and Shannon on the North
Side of the river to hunt, Came in and informed me, that he had killed two Bear at about 5
miles distant on the up lands. one of which was in good order. I imediately depatched Jo. This
nation esteem the Killing of one of those tremendeous animals (the Bear) equally great with
that of an enemy in the field of action-. we gave the Claws of those bear which Collins had
killed to Hohastillpelp.

[Lewis, May 15, 1806] Thursday May 15th 1806. This morning early Reubin Fields in surching
for his horse saw a large bear at no great distance from camp; several men went in pursuit
of the bear, they followed his trail a considerable distance but could not come up with him.
Labuish and Shannon set out with a view to establish a hunting camp and continuing several
days, two others accompanyed them in order to bring in the three bear which Labuish had killed.
Drewyer and Cruzatte were sent up the river; Sheilds R. Feilds and Willard hunted in the hills
near the camp they returned in the evening with a few pheasants only and reported that there
was much late appearance of bear, but beleived that they had gone off to a greater distance.
at 11 A.M. the men returned with the bear which Labuich had killed. These bear gave me a stronger
evidence of the various coloured bear of this country being one speceis only, than any I have
heretofore had. Frazier, J. Fields and Wiser complain of violent pains in their heads, and
Howard and York are afflicted with the cholic. I attribute these complaints to their diet of
roots which they have not been accustomed. Tunnachemootoolt and 12 of his young men left us
this morning on their return to their village.

[Clark, May 15, 1806] Thursday 15th of May 1806 This morning Reubin Fields went out to hunt
his horse very early and Saw a large bear and no great distance from Camp. Several men went
in pursute of the bear, and prosued his trail Some time without gitting Sight of this Monster.
Shannon went out with Labeach to hunt and continue out 3 days, Gibson and Hall accompanied
them for the meat Labeech killed yesterday which they brought in by 11 A M. this Morning the
female was black with white hares intermixed and a white Spot on the breast the Cubs were about
the Size of a dog also pore. one of them very black and the other a light redish brown or bey
colour. These bear give me a Stronger evidence of the various Coloured bear of this Country
being one Specie only, than any I have heretofore had. Several other Colours have been seen.
Drewyer and Peter Crusat went up the river. John Shields, R. Fields and Willard hunted in the
hills near Camp and returned before 2 P. M without killing any thing except a fiew Grows. they
saw but few deer. Some bear Sign. Frazur Jo. Fields and Peter Wizer Complain of a violent pain
in their heads. Howard and York with violent Cholicks. the Cause of those disorders we are
unable to account for. their diet and the Sudin Change of Climate must contribute. The Great
Chief Tin nach-e-moo-tolt (or broken Arm) and 12 of the young men of his nation left us today
about 11 oClock and Crossed the river to his Village Hoh-hast-ill-pilt and 3 old men Continued
with us untill about 5 P. M when they left us and returnd. to their Village. a party of 14
Indians passed our Camp about 1 P.M. on their way to the leavel uplands to run and kill the
deer with their horses and Bows and arrows. Some of them were also provided with deers heads
Cased for the purpose of decoying the deer. those men continued withus but a fiew minits and
proceeded on. Those people hunt most Commonly on horse back Seround the Deer or Goat which
they find in the open plains & kill them with their arrows. tho they Sometimes hunt the deer
on foot & decoy them. we had all of our horses drove together to day with a view to fermilurize
them to each other. those that were Cut yesterday are Stiff and Several of them much Swelled.
we had all our baggage Secured and Covered with a rouf of Straw. our little fortification also
completely Secured with brush around which our Camp is formed. the Greater part of our Security
from the rains &c. is the grass which is formed in a kind of ruff So as to turn the rain Completely
and is much the best tents we have. as the days are worm &c. we have a bowry made to write
under which we find not only comfortable but necessary, to keep off the intence heet of the
Sun which has great effect in this low bottom. on the high plains off the river the Climate
is entirely different cool. Some Snow on the north hill Sides near the top and vegetation near
3 weeks later than in the river bottoms. and the rocky Mountains imedeately in view covered
Several say 4 & 5 feet deep with Snow. here I behold three different Climats within a fiew
miles a little before dark Hoh-hast-ill-pilt and the 3 old men & one other returned to our
Camp and informed us the Canoe was a great way off and they could not cross this evening.

[Lewis, May 16, 1806] Friday May 16th 1806. Drewyer's horse left his camp last night and was
brought to us this morning by an indian who informed us he had found him a considerable distance
towards the mountains. Hohastillpilp and all the natives left us about noon and informed us
that they were going up the river some distance to a place at which they expected to fine a
canoe, we gave them the head and neck of a bear, a part of which they eat and took the ballance
with them. these people sometimes kill the variagated bear when they can get them in the open
plain where they can pursue them on horseback and shoot them with their arrows. the black bear
they more frequently kill as they are less ferocious. our sick men are much better today. Sahcargarmeah
geathered a quantity of the roots of a speceis of fennel which we found very agreeable food,
the flavor of this root is not unlike annis seed, and they dispell the wind which the roots
called Cows and quawmash are apt to create particularly the latter. we also boil a small onion
which we find in great abundance, with other roots and find them also an antidote to the effects
of the others. the mush of roots we find adds much to the comfort of our diet.- we sent out
several hunters this morning but they returned about 11 A.M. without success; they killed a
few pheasants only. at 5 P.M. Drewyer and Cruzatte returned having killed one deer only. Drewyer
had wounded three bear which he said were as white as sheep but had obtained neither of them.
they informed us that the hunting was but bad in the quarter they had been, the Country was
broken and thickly covered in most parts with underbrush. a little after dark Shannon and Labuish
returned with one deer; they informed us that game was wild and scarce, that a large creek
(Collins Creek) ran parallel with the river at the distance of about 5 or 6 miles which they
found impracticable to pass with their horses in consequence of the debth and rapidity of it's
current. beyond this creek the Indians inform us that there is great abundance of game. Sergt.
Pryor and Collins who set out this morning on a hunting excurtion did not return this evening.-
I killed a snake near our camp, it is 3 feet 11 Inches in length, is much the colour of the
rattlesnake common to the middle atlantic states, it has no poisonous teeth. it has 218 scutae
on the abdomen and fifty nine squamae or half formed scutae on the tail. the eye is of moderate
size, the iris of a dark yellowish brown and puple black. there is nothing remarkable in the
form of the head which is not so wide across the jaws as those of the poisonous class of snakes
usually are.- I preserved the skin of this snake.

[Clark, May 16, 1806] Friday 16th May 1806 a cloudy morning with Some rain which continued
untill Meridean at intervales, but very moderately. a man and boy Came to our Camp at 11 A.
M with Drewyers Horse which he informed us he found at a long distance towards the Mtns. this
horse must have Strayed from Drewyers Camp last night. Hohhastillpelt and all the nativs left
us at merdn. and went up the river with a view to Cross at Some distance above where they expected
to find a Canoe.

we gave those people a head and Neck of the largest bear a part of which they eate and the
balance they Carefully took with them for their children. The Indians of this Country Seldom
kill the bear they are very much afraid of them and the killing of a white or Grzley bear,
is as great a feet as two of their enimy. the fiew of those Animals which they Chance to kill
is found in the leavel open lands and pursued on horses & killed with their Arrows. they are
fond of the flesh of this animal and eate emoderately of it when they have a Sufficiency to
indulge themselves. The men who were complaining of the head ake and Cholicks yesterday and
last night are much better to day. Shabonos Squar gatherd a quantity of fenel roots which we
find very paleatiable and nurishing food. the Onion we also find in abundance and boil it with
our meat. Shields rode out and hunted in the morning without Suckcess he returned at 11 A.M.
having killed only a black wood pecker with a red breast as discribed hereafter. A snake which
resembles the rattle Snake in colour and Spots on the Skin, longer and inosent. at 5 P M Drewyer
and Crusat returned haveing killed only one Deer only. D. Shot 3 White bear but Could get neither
of them. they inform us that the hunting in the derection they were is very bad. the country
hilly & brushey. a little after dark Shannon & Labiech came in from the Chass. Shannon killed
one deer which he brought in. this deer being the only animal they Could kill. they informed
that a large Creek (Collens's Creek) run parrelal with the river at about 5 or 6 miles distant
between which there was but little game, and the Creek being high rapid and the Smothe rocks
in the bottom rendered it impossible for them to pass it on hors back. Sergt. Pryor and Collins
who Set out early this morning hunting have not returned. we derected that the horses be drove
up in future at 12 oClock on each day

[Lewis, May 17, 1806] Saturday May 17th 1806. It rained the greater part of the last night
and this morning untill 8 OCk. the water passed through flimzy covering and wet our bed most
perfectly in shot we lay in the water all the latter part of the night. unfortunately my chronometer
which for greater security I have woarn in my fob for ten days past, got wet last night; it
seemed a little extraordinary that every part of my breechies which were under my head, should
have escaped the moisture except the fob where the time peice was. I opened it and founded
it nearly filled with water which I carefully drained out exposed it to the air and wiped the
works as well as I could with dry feathers after which I touched them with a little bears oil.
several parts of the iron and steel works were rusted a little which I wiped with all the care
in my power. I set her to going and from her apparent motion hope she has sustained no material
injury.- at 9 A.M. Sergt. Pryor and Collins returned, Sergt. Pryor brought the Skin and flesh
of a black bear which he had killed; Collins had also killed a very large variegated bear but
his horse having absconded last evening was unable to bring it. they had secured this meat
perfectly from the wolves or birds and as it was at a considerable distance we did not think
proper to send for it today. neither of these bear were in good order. as the bear are reather
ferocious and we are obliged to depend on them pincipally for our subsistence we thought it
most advisable to direct at least two hunters to go together, and they accordingly peared themselves
out for this purpose. we also apportioned the horses to the several hunters in order that they
should be equally rode and thereby prevent any horse being materially injured by being too
constantly hunted. we appointed the men not hunters to take charge of certain horses in the
absence of the hunters and directed the hunters to set out in different directions early in
the morning and not return untill they had killed some game. it rained moderately the greater
part of the day and snowed as usual on the plain. Sergt. Pryor informed me that it was shoe
deep this morning when he came down. it is somewhat astonishing that the grass and a variety
of plants which are now from a foot to 18 inches high on these plains sustain no injury from
the snow or frost; many of those plants are in blume and appear to be of a tender susceptable
texture. we have been visited by no indians today, and occurrence which has not taken place
before since we left the Narrows of the Columbia.- I am pleased at finding the river rise so
rapidly, it now doubt is attributeable to the meting snows of the mountains; that icy barier
which seperates me from my friends and Country, from all which makes life esteemable.- patience,
patience

[Clark, May 17, 1806] Saturday 17th May 1806 rained moderately all the last night and this
morning untill we are wet. The little river on which we are encamped rise Sepriseingly fast.
at 9 A.M. Sergt. Pryor and Collins returned with the flesh and Skin of a Black bear on Sgt.
Pryors horse. Collins's horse haveing run off from him yesterday. they informed us that they
had each killed a Bear neither of which were fat. the one which they left in the woods was
of the white Species and very large we did not think it necessary in the cours of this day
to Send for the flesh of the bear left in the woods. the rains of the last night unfortunately
wet the Crenomuter in the fob of Capt. L. breaches. which has never before been wet Since we
Set out on this expedition. her works were cautiously wiped and made dry by Capt. L. and I
think She will recive no injury from this misfortune &c. we arranged the hunters and horses
to each hunter and directed them to turn out in the morning early and continue out untill they
Killed Something. others arranged so as to take care of the hunters horses in their absence.
rained moderately all day. at the Same time Snowed on the mountains which is in to the S. E.
of us. no Indians visit us to day which is a Singular circumstance as we have not been one
day without Indians Since we left the long narrows of the Columbia. the fiew worm days which
we have had has melted the Snows in the Mountains and the river has rose considerably. that
icy barier which Seperates me from my friends and Country, from all which makes life estimable,
is yet white with the Snow which is maney feet deep. I frequently Consult the nativs on the
subject of passing this tremendious barier which now present themselves to our view for great
extent, they all appear to agree as to the time those Mountains may be passed which is about
the Middle of June.

Sergt. pryor informs me that the Snow on the high plains from the river was Shoe deep this
morning when he Came down. it is somewhat estonishing that the grass and a variety of Plants
Sustain no injurey from the Snow or frost; Maney of those plants are in blume and appear to
be of tender susceptable texture. At the distance of 18 Miles from the river and on the Eastern
border of the high Plain the Rocky Mountain Commences and presents us with Winter here we have
Summer, Spring and Winter in the Short Space of twenty or thirty miles

[Lewis, May 18, 1806] Sunday May 18th 1806. Twelve hunters turned out this morning in different
directions agreeably to the order of last evening. Potts and Whitehouse accompanied Collins
to the bear he had killed on the 16th inst. with which they returned in the afternoon. the
colours of this bear was a mixture of light redish brown white and dark brown in which the
bey or redish brown predominated, the fur was bey as well as the lower pertion of the long
hairs, the white next succeeded in the long hairs which at their extremites were dark brown,
this uncommon mixture might be termed a bey grizzle.

our indian woman was busily engaged today in laying in a store of the fennel roots for the
Rocky mountains. these are called by the Shoshones year-pah. at 2 P.M. 3 Indians who had been
hunting towards the place at which we met with Chopunnish last fall, called by them the quawmash
grounds, called at our camp; they informed us that they had been hunting several days and had
killed nothing; we gave them a small peice of meat which they told us they would reserve for
their small children who were very hungary; we smoked with them and they shortly after departed.
early this morning the natives erected a lodge on the opposite side of the river near a fishing
stand a little above us. no doubt to be in readiness for the salmon, the arrival of which they
are so ardently wishing as well as ourselves. this stand is a small stage are warf constructed
of sticks and projecting about 10 feet into the river and about 3 feet above the surface of
the water on the extremity of this the fisherman stands with his scooping net, which differ
but little in their form from those commonly used in our country it is formed thus. the fisherman
exercised himself some hours today but I believe without success. at 3 P.M. J. Fields returned
very unwell having killed nothing. shortly after an old man and woman arrived; the former had
soar eyes and the latter complained of a lax and rheumatic effections. we gave the woman some
creem of tartar and flour of sulpher, and washed the old man's eyes with a little eyewater.
a little before dark Drewyer R. Fields and LaPage returned having been also unsuccessfull they
had killed a hawk only and taken the part of a salmon from an Eagle, the latter altho it was
of itself not valuable was an agreeable sight as it gave us reason to hope that the salmon
would shortly be with us. these hunters had scowered the country between the Kooskooske and
Collins's Creek from hence to their junction about 10 miles and had seen no deer or bear and
but little sign of either. shortly after dark it began to rain and continued raining moderately
all night. the air was extreemly cold and disagreeable and we lay in the water as the preceeding
night.

[Clark, May 18, 1806] Sunday 18th May 1806 Cloudy morning 12 hunters turned out this morning
in different directions agreeably to the order of yesterday. Potts and Whitehouse accompanied
Collins to the bear which he had killed on the 16th and brought in the flesh and Skin. this
bear was not large but remarkably light coloured the hair of it as also the hair of all those
which has been killed is very thick and long. The nativs made a lodge on the opposit bank of
the river a little above us at a fishing place. as all communication is cut off between us
and the nativs on the opposit Side of the river, we cannot Say by whome or for what service
that lodge has been errected as no one has been near it Since it was errected this morning.
at 3 P M Jo. Field returned from the chase without killing any thing he complains of being
unwell. Son after an old man and a woman arived the man with Sore eyes, and the woman with
a gripeing and rhumatic effections. I gave the woman a dose of creme of tarter and flour of
Sulphur, and the man Some eye water. a little before night Rueben Field Drewyer and LaPage
returned haveing killed nothing but a large hawk they had hunted in the point between the Kooskooske
and Collins's Creek and Saw but little Sign of either deer or Bear. the evening Cloudy, Soon
after dark it began to rain and rained moderately all night-. LaPage took a Salmon from an
Eagle at a Short distance below our Camp. this is induces us to believe that the Salmon is
in this river and most probably will be here in great numbers in the Course of a fiew days.

[Lewis, May 19, 1806] Monday May 19th 1806. It continued to rain this morning untill 8 OCk.
when it became fair. We sent Charbono, Thompson, Potts, Hall and Wiser over the river to a
village above in order to purchase some roots to eat with our lean bear meat. for this purpose
we gave them a few awls, Kniting pins and Armbands. we were informed that there was a canoe
at the village in which they could pass the river. I sent Joseph and R. Feilds up the river
in surch of the horse which I rode over the Rocky mountains last fall. he had been seen yesterday
with a parse) of indian horses and has become almost wild. at 11 A.M. Thompson returned from
the village accompanied by a train of invalids consisting of 4 men 8 women and a child. The
men had soar eyes and the women in addition to soar eyes had a variety of other complaints
principally rheumatic; a weakness and pain in the loins is a common complaint with their women.
eyewater was administered to all; to two of the women cathartics were given, to a third who
appeared much dejected and who from their account of her disease we supposed it to be histerical,
we gave 30 drops of Laudanum. the several parts of the others where the rheumatic pains were
seated were well rubed with volitile linniment. all of those poor wretches thought themselves
much benefited and all returned to their village well satisfyed. at 5 P.M. or marketers returned
with about 6 bushels of the cows roots and a considerable quanty of bread of the same materials.
late in the evening Reubin and Joseph Feilds returned with my horse; we had him immediately
castrated together with two others by Drewyer in the ordinary. we amused ourselves about an
hour this afternoon in looking at the men running their horses. several of those horses would
be thought fleet in the U States. a little after dark Sheilds and Gibson returned unsuccessful)
from the chase. they had seen some deer but no bear.

[Clark, May 19, 1806] Monday 19th May 1806 Rained this morning untill 8 oClock when it Cleared
off and became fair-. we Sent Shabono, Thomson, Potts, Hall & Wizer over to the Villages above
to purchase Some roots to eate with our pore bear meat, for which purchase we gave them a fiew
Awls, Knitting pins, & arm bans and directed them to proceed up on this Side of the river opposit
to the Village and Cross in the Cano which we are informed is at that place. Sent Jo. & Reuben
Field up the river a Short distance after the horse which Capt. Lewis rode over the mountains
last fall, which horse was Seen yesterday with a gangue of Indian horses, and is Very wild-.
about 11 oClock 4 men and 8 Women Came to our Camp with Thompson who went to the Village very
early this morning. those Men applyed for Eye water and the Women had a Variety of Complaints
tho the most general Complaint was the Rhumitism, pains in the back and the Sore eyes, they
also brought fowd. a very young Child whome they Said had been very Sick-. I administered eye
water to all, two of the women I gave a carthartic, one whose Spirets were very low and much
hipedz I gave 30 drops of Lodomem, and to the others I had their backs hips legs thighs & arms
well rubed with Volitile leniment all of those pore people thought themselves much benifited
by what had been done for them, and at 3 P.M. they all returned to their Villages well satisfied.
at 5 P.M. Potts, Shabono &c. returned from the Village with about 6 bushels of the root the
nativs Call Cowse and Some bread of the Same root. Rubin & Jos. Fields returned with the horse
Capt. Lewis rode across the rocky mountains we had this horse imedeately Cut with 2 others
which we had not before thought proper to Castrate. we amused ourselves about an hour this
after noon looking at the men run their horses, Several of them would be thought Swift horses
in the atlantic States. a little after dark John Shields and Gibson returned haveing killed
nothing. they Saw Some deer but Saw no bear.

[Lewis, May 20, 1806] Tuesday May 20th 1806. It rained the greater part of last night and continued
this morning untill noon when it cleared away about an hour and then rained at intervals untill
4 in the evening. our covering is so indifferent that Capt C. and myself lay in the water the
greater part of the last night. Drewyer, and the two Feildses set out on a hunting excurtion
towards the mountains. Shannon and Colter came in unsuccessfull, they had wounded a bear and
a deer last evening but the night coming on they were unable to pursue them, and the snow which
fell in the course of the night and this morning had covered the blood and rendered all further
pursuit impracticable. at 2 P.M. Labuish arrived with a large buck of the Mule deer speceis
which he had killed on Collins's Creek yesterday. he had left Cruzatte and Collins on the Creek
where they were to wait his return. he informed us that it was snowing on the plain while it
was raining at our camp in the river bottom. late in the evening Labuish and LaPage set out
to join Collins and Cruzatte in order to resume their hunt early tomorrow morning. this evening
a party of indians assembled on the opposite bank of the river and viewed our camp with much
attention for some time and retired.- at 5 P.M. Frazier who had been permitted to go to the
village this morning returned with a pasel of Roots and bread which he had purchased. brass
buttons is an article of which these people are tolerably fond, the men have taken advantage
of their prepossession in favour of buttons and have devested themselves of all they had in
possesson which they have given in exchange for roots and bread. Drewyer, Jos. & R. Fields
Set out to towards the mountains. Shannon & Colter Came in without any thing. they had Seen
and Shot at a Bear and a Deer neither of which they Could get. both of those Animals they must
have Wounded Mortally, but the night Comeing on prevented their following them, and this morning
the Snow had Covered the tracks and hid the blood and prevented their getting either of them.

at 2 P.M. Labiech Came in with a large Buck of the Mule Deer Speces which he had killed on
Collins's Creek yesterday. he left Collins and Peter Crusat on the Creek at which place they
would Continue untill his return. he informd. us that it was Snowing on the leavel plains on
the top of the hill all the time it was raining in the bottom at our Camp. Labiech & Lapage
returned to Collins & Crusat in the evening late for the purpose of Pursueing the hunt in the
Morning early. Several Indians came to the opposit side of the River and viewed us some time.
at 5 P M Frazur who had leave to go to the Village returned with Some roots which he had purchased.
cloudy &c.

[Lewis, May 21, 1806] Wednesday May 21st 1806. It rained a few hours this morning. Sheilds
and Gibson set out to hunt towards the mountains. Collins came to camp at noon and remained
about 2 hours; he has killed nothing since he left us last. we set five men at work to make
a canoe for the purpose of fishing and passing the river. the Indians have already promised
us a horse for this canoe when we have no longer any uce for her. as our tent was not sufficient
to shelter us from the rain we had a lodge constructed of willow poles and grass in the form
of the orning of a waggon closed at one end. this we had made sufficiently large to sleep in
and to shelter the most important part of our baggage. it is perfectly secure against the rain
sun and wind and affords us much the most comfortable shelter we have had since we left Fort
Clatsop. today we divided the remnant of our store of merchandize among our party with a view
that each should purchase therewith a parsel of roots and bread from the natives as his stores
for the rocky mountains for there seems but little probability that we shall be enabled to
make any dryed meat for that purpose and we cannot as yet form any just idea what resource
the fish will furnish us. each man's stock in trade amounts to no more than one awl, one Kniting
pin, a half an ounce of vermillion, two nedles, a few scanes of thead and about a yard of ribbon;
a slender stock indeed with which to lay in a store of provision for that dreary wilderness.
we would make the men collect these roots themselves but there are several speceis of hemlock
which are so much like the cows that it is difficult to discriminate them from the cows and
we are affraid that they might poison themselves. the indians have given us another horse to
kill for provision which we keep as a reserved store. our dependence for subsistence is on
our guns, the fish we may perhaps take, the roots we can purchase from the natives and as the
last alternative our horses. we eat the last morsel of meat which we had for dinner this evening,
yet nobody seems much conserned about the state of provision. Willard, Sergt. Ordway and Goodrich
were permitted to visit the village today; the former returned in the evening with some roots
and bread, the two last remaining all night. one of our party brought in a young sandhill crain
it was about the size of a pateridge and of a redish brown colour, it appeared to be about
5 or six days old; these crains are abundant in this neighbourhood.

[Clark, May 21, 1806] Wednesday 21st May 1806 rained this morning. Shields and Gibson Set out
to hunt towards the mountains. Collins Came in to day and Stayed in about two hours, he has
killed nothing Since he went out last. we Set 5 Men at work to build a Canoe for the purpose
of takeing fish and passing the river and for which we can get a good horse. as our tent is
not Sufficient to keep off the rain we are Compelled to have Some other resort for a Security
from the repeeted Showers which fall. we have a small half circular place made and Covered
with grass which makes a very Secure Shelter for us to Sleep under. We devided our Store of
merchindize amongst our party for the purpose of precureing Some roots &c. of the nativs to
each mans part amounted to about an awl Knitting pin a little paint and Some thread & 2 Needles
which is but a Scanty dependance for roots to take us over those Great Snowey Barriers (rocky
mountains) which is and will be the Cause of our Detention in this neighbourhood probably untill
the 10 or 15 of June. they are at this time Covered deep with Snow. the plains on the high
Country above us is also covered with Snow. Serjt. Ordway, Goodrich, & Willard went to the
village to day to precure a fiew roots. we eate the last of our meat for Dinner to day, and
our only Certain dependance is the roots we Can precure from the nativs for the fiew articles
we have left those roots with what Game we Can precure from the wods will probably last us
untill the arival of the Salmon. if they Should not; we have a horse in Store ready to be killed
which the indians have offered to us. Willard returned from the Village. Sergt. Ordway and
Goodrich Continued all night. one of the men brought me a young Sandhill Crain which was about
5 or 6 days old it was of a yellowish brown Colour, about the Size of a partridge. Those Crains
are very abundant in every part of this country in pars of two, and Sometimes three together.

the party had gathered roots with leaves still attached they probably could have been sorted
with Indian assistance. However, the parsley family (Apiaceae) is one of the most diverse and
confusing plant families in the region, and Lewis could not be sure that the men would not
bring back some other poisonous species not well known to the Indians. The decision to purchase
roots was probably prudent.

[Lewis, May 22, 1806] Thursday May 22ed 1806. A fine morning we exposed all our baggage to
air and dry as well as our store of roots and bread purchased from the natives. permited Windsor
and McNeal to go to the indian village. Sergt. Ordway and Goodrich returned this morning with
a good store of roots and bread. about noon 2 indian men came down the river on a raft and
continued at our camp about 3 hours and returned to their village. we.sent out Shannon and
Colter to hunt towards the mountains. we sent Sergt. Pryor down to the entrance of Collins's
Creek to examine the country and look out for a good position for an encampment on the river
below that Creek, having determined to remove our camp below that crek if it continues high,
as soon as we have completed our canoe, as the country to which we are confined to hunt at
present is limited by this creek and river to a very narrow tract, and game have already become
scarce. if we can obtain a good situation below the entrance of this creek it will be much
more eligible as the hunting country is more extensive and game more abundant than above. The
horse which the indians have given us to kill was driven away yesterday by the natives with
a gang of their horses I presume in mistake; being without meat at noon we directed one of
the largest of our colts to be killed. we found the flesh of this animal fat tender and by
no means illy flavoured. we have three others which we mean to reserve for the rocky mountains
if we can subsist here without them. my horse which was castrated the day before yesterday
wounded his thigh on the inner side with the rope by which he was confined that evening and
is now so much swolen with the wound the castraiting and the collection of vermen that he cannot
walk, in short he is the most wretched specticle; I had his wounds clensed of the vermen by
washing them well with a strong decoction of the bark of the roots & leaves of elder but think
the chances are against his recovery. at 3 P.M. we observed a large party of Indians on horseback
in pursuit of a deer which they ran into the river opposite to our camp; Capt. C. Myself &
three of our men shot and killed the deer in the water; the indians pursued it on a raft and
caught it. it is astonishing to see these people ride down those steep hills which they do
at full speed. on our return to camp we found Drewyer the Two Feildses Gibson and Sheilds just
arrived with five deer which they had killed at a considerable distance towards the mountains.
they also brought with them two red salmon trout which they had purchased from some indians
whom they had met with on their return to camp.- Two Indians who were just arrived at our camp
informed us that these salmon trout remained in this river the greater part of the winter,
that they were not good at this season which we readily discovered, they were very meagre.
these indians also informed us that there were at this time a great number of salmon at no
great distance from hence in Lewis's river which had just arrived and were very fat and fine,
they said it would be some yet before they would ascend this river as high as this place. a
party of the natives on the opposite shore informed those with us that a party of the Shoshones
had two nights past surrounded a lodge of their nation on the South side of Lewis's river,
that the inhabitants having timely discovered the enimy effected their retreat in the course
of the night and escaped. Charbono's Child is very ill this evening; he is cuting teeth, and
for several days past has had a violent lax, which having suddonly stoped he was attacked with
a high fever and his neck and throat are much swolen this evening. we gave him a doze of creem
of tartar and flour of sulpher and applyed a poltice of boiled onions to his neck as warm as
he could well bear it. Sergt. Pryor returned late in the evening and informed us that he had
been down the river eight miles and that the clifts set in so abruptly to the river he could
get no further without returning several miles back and ascending the hills and that he had
thought it best to return and ride down tomorrow on the high plain as he believed the mouth
of the creek was a considerable distance. Drewyer who has been at the place informs us that
it is about 10 ms. and that there is no situation on the river for some distance below this
creek which can possibly answer our purposes.- we dryed our baggage &c perfectly and put it up.-

[Clark, May 22, 1806] Thursday 22nd May 1806 a fine day we exposed all our baggage to the Sun
to air and dry, also our roots which we have precured of the nativs. gave promission to Windser
& McNeal to go to the Indian Villages. Sergt. Ordway and goodrich returned at 11 A.M. Soon
after 2 Indian men Came down on a raft and Continued with us about 3 hours and then returned
to their Village. Shannon & Colter went out to day to hunt towards the mountains. Sergt. Pryor
went out to hunt down the river, and examine the mouth of Collins Creek, if a good Situation
was below that Creek for a Camp. this Creek which Cannot be passed owing to it's debth & rapidity
is a great beariore in our way to the best hunting Country. it confines us to a narrow scope
between this Creek and the river on which we are Camped. If a Situation can be found imedeately
below the Creek it will answer us better than our present one as from thence we Can get out
to Some distance to hunt, and be convenient also to the fish Should they pass up &c. The horse
the Indian's left with us to kill has been drove to their village with a gang of horses which
I suppose belonged to another man. as the greater part of our men have not had any Meat to
eate for 2 days, and the roots they Complain of, not being accustiomed to live on them altogether
we derected a large Coalt which was given to us by a young man with an elegant mare on the
instant. this Coalt was fat and was handsom looking meat. late in the evening we were informed
that the horse which Capt L. rode over the rocky mountains and which was Cut day before yesterday
had his hip out of place Since that time, and Could not walk. Capt. Lewis examined him and
thought he Could not recover. at 3 P.M. we observed a number of Indians in chase of a deer
on their horses on the opposit hill Sides. Soon after the deer took the water I Capt L. and
3 men run down on this Side, and killed the deer in the water, the deer floated down and the
Indians took it by means of a raft which they had ready. on my return to Camp found Drewyer
Jos. & Reuben Fields, Shields and gibson just arrived from the Chass with 5 Deer which they
had killed on the high lands toward the mountains. they also brought with them two Salmon trout
which they had purchased of Indians which they Saw on their return to Camp. at 5 p. M. two
young men highly decurated in their way Came to our camp and informed us that the fat fish
were in great numbers in Lewis's river. that those Salmon trout which our hunters brought were
pore and Such as were Cought in the Winter in this river and were not the kind which Comes
up in the Spring of the year. great number of Indians Come to the opposit bank and inform those
on this Side that the Snake Indians had come to a Lodge on Lewis's river at night. the inhabitents
previously discovering them abandened the house. Shabonoes Son a Small child is, dangerously
ill. his jaw and throat is much Swelled. we apply a poltice of Onions. after giveing him Some
creem of tarter &c. this day proved to be fine fair which afforded us an oppertunety of drying
our baggage which had got a little wet.

[Lewis, May 23, 1806] Friday May 23rd 1806. Sergt. Pryor wounded a deer early this morning
in a lick near camp; my dog pursud it into the river; the two young Indian men who had remained
with us all night mounted their horses swam the river and drove the deer into the water again;
Sergt. Pryor killed it as it reached the shore on this side, the indians returned as they had
passed over. we directed half this deer to be given to the indians, they immediately made a
fire and cooked their meat, 4 others joined them from the village with the assistance of whom
they consumed their portion of the spoil in less than 2 hours and took their leave of our camp.
The Creem of tartar and sulpher operated several times on the child in the course of the last
night, he is considerably better this morning, tho the swelling of the neck has abated but
little; we still apply polices of onions which we renew frequently in the course of the day
and night. at noon we were visited by 4 indians who informed us they cad come from their village
on Lewis's river at the distance of two days ride in order to see us and obtain a little eyewater,
Capt. C. washed their eyes and they set out on their return to their village. our skill as
phisicans and the virture of our medecines have been spread it seems to a great distance. I
sincerely wish it was in our power to give releif to these poor afficted wretches. at 1 P.M.
Shannon, Colter, Labuish, Cruzatte, Collins, and LaPage returned from hunting without having
killed anything except a few pheasants of the dark brown kind, which they brought with them.These
hunters informed us that they had hunted the country deligently between the river and Creek
for some distance above and below our camp and that there was no game to be found. all the
horses which have been castrated except my poor unfortunate horse appear as if they would do
very well. I am convinced that those cut by the indians will get well much soonest and they
do not swell nor appear to suffer as much as those cut in the common way.

[Clark, May 23, 1806] Friday 23rd May 1806 a fair morning. Sergt. Pryor wounded a Deer at a
lick near our Camp and our dog prosued it into the river. two Indians which happened to be
at our Camp Mounted their horses and Swam across the river chased the deer into the water again
and pursued it across to the Side on which we were, and as the Deer Came out of the Water Sgt.
Pryor killed it. we derected half of this deer to be given to those two indians. they imediately
made a fire and Cooked the meat. 4 others joined them from the Village and they Soon consumed
their portion. The Child is Something better this morning than it was last night. we apply
a fresh poltice of the wild Onion which we repeeted twice in the Course of the day. the Swelling
does not appear to increas any Since yesterday. The 4 Indians who visited us to day informed
us that they Came from their village on Lewis's river two days ride from this place for the
purpose of Seeing of us and getting a little eye water I washed their eyes with Some eyewater
and they all left us at 2 P.M. and returned to the Villages on the opposit Side of this river.
at 1 oClock Shannon, Colter, Labiech, Crusatt Lapage and Collins all returned from hunting
without haveing killed any thing except a fiew heath hens & black Pheasants two of which they
brought with them. Labiech also brought a whisteling squerel which he had killed on it's hole
in the high plains. this squerel differs from those on the Missouri in their Colour, Size,
food and the length tal and from those found near the falls of Columbia

Our hunters brought us a large hooting owl which differ from those of the atlantic States.
The plumage of this owl is an uniform mixture of dark yellowish brown and white, in which the
dark brown prodominates. it's Colour may be properly termed a dark Iron gray. the plumage is
very long and remarkably Silky and Soft. those have not the long feathers on the head which
give it the appearance of ears, or horns, remarkable large eyes

the hunters informed us that they had hunted with great industry all the Country between the
river and for Some distance above and below without the Smallest Chance of killing any game.
they inform us that the high lands are very cold with snow which has fallen for every day or
night for Several past. our horses which was Cut is like to doe well.

[Lewis, May 24, 1806] Saturday May 24th 1806. The child was very wrestless last night; it's
jaw and the back of it's neck are much more swolen than they were yesterday tho his fever has
abated considerably. we gave it a doze of creem of tartar and applyed a fresh poltice of onions.
we ordered some of the hunters out this morning and directed them to pass Collins's creek if
possible and hunt towards the quawmash feilds. William Bratton still continues very unwell;
he eats heartily digests his food well, and his recovered his flesh almost perfectly yet is
so weak in the loins that he is scarcely able to walk nor can he set upwright but with the
greatest pain. we have tryed every remidy which our engenuity could devise, or with which our
stock of medicines furnished us, without effect. John Sheilds observed that he had seen men
in a similar situation restored by violent sweats. Bratton requested that he might be sweated
in the manner proposed by Sheilds to which we consented. Sheilds sunk a circular hole of 3
feet diamiter and four feet deep in the earth. he kindled a large fire in the hole and heated
well, after which the fire was taken out a seat placed in the center of the hole for the patient
with a board at bottom for his feet to rest on; some hoops of willow poles were bent in an
arch crossing each other over the hole, on these several blankets were thrown forming a secure
and thick orning of about 3 feet high. the patient being striped naked was seated under this
orning in the hole and the blankets well secured on every side. the patient was furnished with
a vessell of water which he sprinkles on the bottom and sides of the hole and by that means
creates as much steam or vapor as he could possibly bear, in this situation he was kept about
20 minutes after which he was taken out and suddonly plunged in cold water twise and was then
immediately returned to the sweat hole where he was continued three quarters of an hour longer
then taken out covered up in several blankets and suffered to cool gradually. during the time
of his being in the sweat hole, he drank copious draughts of a strong tea of horse mint. Sheilds
says that he had previously seen the tea of Sinnecca snake root used in stead of the mint which
was now employed for the want of the other which is not be found in this country.- this experiment
was made yesterday; Bratton feels himself much better and is walking about today and says he
is nearly free from pain.- at 11 A.M. a canoe arrived with 3 of the natives one of them the
sick man of whom I have before made mentions as having lost the power of his limbs. he is a
cheif of considerable note among them and they seem extreemly anxious for his recovery. as
he complains of no pain in any particular part we conceive it cannot be the rheumatism, nor
do we suppose that it can be a parelitic attack or his limbs would have been more deminished.
we have supposed that it was some disorder which owed it's origine to a diet of particular
roots perhaps and such as we have never before witnessed. while at the village of the broken
arm we had recommended a diet of fish or flesh for this man and the cold bath every morning.
we had also given him a few dozes of creem of tarter and flour of sulpher to be repeated every
3rd day. this poor wretch thinks that he feels himself of somewhat better but to me there appears
to be no visible alteration. we are at a loss what to do for this unfortunate man. we gave
him a few drops of Laudanum and a little portable soup. 4 of our party pased the river and
visited the lodge of the broken Arm for the purpose of traiding some awls which they had made
of the links of small chain belonging to one of their steel traps, for some roots. they returned
in the evening having been very successfull, they had obtained a good supply of roots and bread
of cows.- this day has proved warmer than any of the preceeding since we have arrived here.

[Clark, May 24, 1806] Saturday 24th May 1806 a fine morning the Child was very restless last
night its jaw and back of its neck is much more Swelled than it was yesterday. I gave it a
dost of Creme of Tarter and a fresh Poltice of Onions. ordered Shields, Gibson, Drewyer, Crusat,
Collins, and Jo. & rubin Fields to turn out hunting and if possible Cross Collins Creek and
hunt towards the quar mash fields. W. Brattin is yet very low he eats hartily but he is So
weak in the Small of his back that he Can't walk. we have made use of every remidy to restore
him without it's haveing the desired effect. one of our party, John Shields observed that he
had Seen men in Similar Situations restored by Violent Swets. and bratten requested that he
might be Swetted in the way Sheilds purposed which we agreed to. Shields dug a round hole 4
feet deep & 3 feet Diamuter in which he made a large fire So as to beet the hole after which
the fire was taken out a Seet placed in the hole. the patent was then Set on the Seat with
a board under his feet and a can of water handed him to throw on the bottom & Sides of the
hole So as to create as greate a heat as he Could bear. and the hole covered with blankets
supported by hoops. after about 20 minits the patient was taken out and put in Cold water a
few minits, & returned to the hole in which he was kept about 1 hour. then taken out and Covered
with Several blankets, which was taken off by degrees untill he became Cool. this remedy took
place yesterday and bratten is walking about to day and is much better than he has been. at
11 A.M. a canoe came down with the Indian man who had applyed for medical assistance while
we lay at the broken arms village. this man I had given a fiew doses of Flower of Sulpher &
Creme of Tarter and derected that he Should take the Cold bath every morning. he Conceited
himself a little better than he was at that time. he had lost the use of all his limbs and
his fingers are Contracted. We are at a loss to deturmine what to do for this unfortunate man.
I gave him a few drops of Lodman and Some portable Supe as medisine. 4 of our men Crossed the
river and went to the broken arms Village and returned in the evening with a Supply of bread
and roots which they precured in exchange for Awls which were made of pieces of a chane- we
were visited to day by the 2 young men who gave Capt. L. and my Self a horse each at the village.
those men Stayed about two hours and returned to their village. this day proved to be very worm.

[Lewis, May 25, 1806] Sunday May 25th 1806. It rained the greater part of last night and continued
untill 6 A.M. our grass tent is impervious to the rain. the Child is more unwell than yesterday.
we gave it a doze of creem of tartar which did not operate, we therefore gave it a clyster
in the evening. we caused a sweat to be prepared for the indian Cheif in the same manner in
which Bratton had been sweated, this we attempted but were unable to succeed, as he was unable
to set up or be supported in the place. we informed the indians that we knew of no releif for
him except sweating him in their sweat houses and giving him a plenty of the tea of the horsemint
which we shewed them. and that this would probably nos succeed as he had been so long in his
present situation. I am confident that this would be an excellent subject for electricity and
much regret that I have it not in my power to supply it.- Drewyer Labuish and Cruzatte set
out this morning to hunt towards the quawmash grounds if they can possibly pass Collins's Creek.
Joseph and Reuben Feilds passed the river in order to hunt on the opposite side some miles
above where the natives inform us that there is an abundance of bear and some deer. Goodrich
visited a village about 8 ms. above on the opposite side of the river and returned in the evening;
he procured but few roots, he informed us that there were but 8 persons at home; the others
were either hunting, diging roots or fishing on Lewis's river. he saw several salmon in their
lodges which they informed him came from that river these fish were remarkably fat and fine.
Gibson and shields returned this evening having killed a Sandhill Crain only. they had wounded
a female bear and a deer but got neither of them. Gibson informed me that the bear had two
cubbs one of which was white and other as black as jett. four indians remained with us this
evening.-

[Clark, May 25, 1806] Sunday 25th May 1806 rained moderately the greater part of last night
and this morning untill 6 A.M. The child is not So well to day as yesterday. I repeeted the
Creem of tarter and the onion poltice. I caused a Swet to be prepared for the Indn. in the
Same hole which bratten had been Sweeten in two days past Drewyer Labiech and Peter crusatt
Set out hunting towards the quarmash grounds if they can cross the Creek which is between this
and that place, which has been the bearrer as yet to our hunters. Jos. & R Fields crossed the
river to hunt on the opposit side. There are also some of the Common black bear in this neghbourhood
tho no So Common as the other Species.

we attempted to swet the sick indian but could not Suckceed. he was not able either to Set
up or be Supported in the place prepared for him. I therefore deturmined to inform the Nativs
that nothing but Sefere Swetts would restore this disabled man, and even that doubtfull in
his present Situation. in the evening Shields & gibson returned haveing killed a Sandhill Crane
only. they Saw a female bear, & 2 Cubs & Several deer. they Shot the bear and a deer both of
which made their escape. Gibson told me that the Cubs were of different Colours one jut black
and the other of a whiteish Colour-. 4 indians Continue with us, one return to their village
to daey

[Lewis, May 26, 1806] Monday May 26th 1806. Had frequent showers in the course of the last
night. Collins, Shannon and Colter set out to hunt on the high lands some distance up on the
N. E. side of Collins's Creek. The Clyster given the Child last evening operated very well.
it is clear of fever this evening and is much better, the swelling is considerably abated and
appears as if it would pass off without coming to a head. we still continue fresh poltices
of onions to the swolen part. we directed the indians in what manner to treat the dieased Cheif,
gave him a few dozes of flour of sulpher and Creem of tartar & some portable soupe and directed
them to take him home. they seemed unwilling to comply with the latter part of the injunction
for they consumed the day and remained with us all night. at 1 P.M. Joseph and R. Feilds returned,
accompanyed by Hohastillpilp several other inferior Cheifs and some young men. These hunters
informed us they were unable to reach the grounds to which they had been directed in consequence
of the debth and rapidity of a large creek which falls in about 10 Ms. above. they passed Commearp
Creek at about 11/2 Ms. and a second creek reather larger at 3 Ms. further. at the distance
of 4 Ms. up this last creek on their return they called at a village which our traders have
never yet visited, here they obtained a large quantity of bread and roots of Cows on very moderate
terms. we permitted Sergt. Pryor and four men to pass the river tomorrow morning with a view
to visit this village we also directed Charbono York and LePage to set out early for the same
place and procure us some roots. our meat is again exhausted, we therefore directed R. Fields
to hunt the horse in the morning which the Indians have given us to kill. one of our men saw
a salmon in the river today. in the afternoon we compleated our canoe and put her in the water;
she appears to answer very well and will carry about 12 persons.- the river still rising fast
and snows of the mountains visibly diminish

[Clark, May 26, 1806] Monday 26th May 1806 Some Small Showers of rain last night, and continued
Cloudy this morning untill 7 A. M when it Cleared away and became fair and worm. Collins Shannon
& Colter set out to hunt on the high lands to the N E of us towards Collins Creek. The Child
Something better this morning tho the Swelling yet continues. we Still apply the onion poltice.
I detected what Should be done for the disabled man, gave him a fiew doses of Creem of tarter
& flour Sulphur, and Some portable Supe and directed that he Should be taken home & Swetted
&c. at 1 P.M. Joseph & R. Fields returned accompanied by Hoh hast ill pilt and an Second Chief
and 4 men Several young men also rode down on this Side. Jo & R Fields informed us that they
were at a village 4 Miles up the 2nd Creek from this place on the opposit side above at which
place on the opposit side above at which place they precured roots on very reasonable terms.
they Could not proceed higher up to hunt as the creeks were too high for them to Cross, &c.
we gave permission to Serjt. Pryor and 4 men to cross the river and trade with nativs of the
village the Field's were at yesterday for roots &c. we also directed Shabono & york to proceed
on to the Same Village and precure Some roots for our Selves if possible. one of our men Saw
a Salmon in the river to day. and two others eat of Salmon at the near Village which was brought
from Lewis's river. our Canoe finished and put into the water. it will Carry 12 men. the riseing
very fast and Snow appear to melt on the Mountains.

[Lewis, May 27, 1806] Tuesday May 27th 1806. Early this morning we sent Reubin Fields in surch
of the horse which the indians had given us to kill. at 10 in the morning he returned with
the horse and we killed and butchered him; he was large and in good order. Hohastillpilp told
us that most of the horses we saw runing at large in this neighbourhood belonged to himself
and his people, and whenever we were in want of meat he requested that we would kill any of
them we wished; this is a peice of liberallity which would do honour to such as host of civilization;
indeed I doubt whether there are not a great number of our countrymen who would see us fast
many days before their compassion would excite them to a similar act of liberallity. Sergt.
Pryor and the party ordered to the indian Village set out early this morning. in the evening
he returned with Gibson and Sheilds. the others remained at the village all night; they brought
a good store of roots and bread. we also sent Sergt. ordway and 2 men this morning over to
Lewis's river for salmon, which the indians inform us may be procured in abundance at that
place, and that it is but half a days ride, nearly south.- Drewyer, Cruzatte, and Labuish returned
at 4 P.M. with five deer which they had killed at some distance up Collins's Creek on this
side; that stream still continues so high that they could not pass it.- Charbono's son is much
better today, tho the swelling on the side of his neck I beleive will terminate in an ugly
imposthume a little below the ear . the indians were so anxious that the sick Cheif should
be sweated under our inspection that they requested we would make a second attept today; accordingly
the hole was somewhat enlarged and his father a very good looking old man, went into the hole
with him and sustained him in a proper position during the operation; we could not make him
sweat as copiously as we wished. after the operation he complained of considerable pain, we
gave him 30 drops of laudanum which soon composed him and he rested very well.- this is at
least a strong mark of parental affection. they all appear extreemly attentive to this sick
man nor do they appear to relax in their asceduity towards him notwithstand he has been sick
and helpless upwards of three years. the Chopunnish appear to be very attentive and kind to
their aged people and treat their women with more rispect than the nations of the Missouri.-
There is a speceis of Burrowing squirrel common in these plains which in their habits somewhat
resemble those of the missouri but are a distinct speceis. this little animal measures one
fot five and 1/2 inches from the nose to the extremity of the tail, of which the tail occupys
21/4 inches only; in the girth it is 11 In. the body is proportionably long, the neck and legs
short; the ears are short, obtusely pointed, and lie close to the head; the aperture of the
ear is larger proportionably than most animals which burrow. the eyes are of moderate size,
the puple black and iris of a dark sooty brown. the teeth are like those of the squirrel as
is it's whole contour. the whiskers are full, long and black; it also has some long black hairs
above the eyes. it has five toes on each foot; the two inner toes of the fore feet are remarkably
short, and have short blont nails. the remaining toes on those feet are long, black, slightly
curved, and sharply pointed. the outer and inner toes of the hind feet are not short yet they
are by no means as long as the three toes in the center of the foot which are remarkably long
but the nails are not as long as those of the fore feet tho of the same form and colour. the
hair of the tail tho of the same form and colour. the hair of the tail tho thickly inserted
on every part rispects the two sides only. this gives it a flat appearance and a long ovol
form. the tips of the hair which form the outer edges of the tail are white. the base of the
hairs are either black or a fox red. the under disk of the tail is an iron grey, the upper
a redish brown. the lower part of the jaws, under part of the neck, legs and feet from the
body down and belley are of a light brick red. the nose as high as the eyes is of a darker
brick red. the upper part of the head neck and body are of a curious brownish grey colour with
a cast of the brick red. the longer hair of these parts being of a redish white colour at their
extremities, fall together in such manner as to give it the appearance of being speckled at
a little distance. these animals form large ascociations as those of the Missouri, occupying
with their burroughs one or sometimes 200 acres of land. the burrows are seperate and are each
occupyed perhaps by ten or 12 of those animals. there is a little mound in front of the hole
formed of the earth thrown out of the burrow and frequently there are three or four distinct
holes forming what I term one burrow with their mouths arround the base of this little mound
which seems to be occupyed as a watch-tower in common by the inhabitants of those several holes.
these mounds are sometimes as much as 2 feet high and 4 feet in diameter, and are irregularly
distributed over the tract they occupy at the distance of from ten to thirty or 40 yds. when
you approach a burrow the squirrels, one or more, usually set erect on these mounds and make
a kind of shrill whistleing nois, something like tweet, tweet, tweet, &c. they do not live
on grass as those of the missouri but on roots. one which I examined had in his mouth two small
bulbs of a speceis of grass, which resemble very much what is sometimes called the grassnut.
the intestins of those little animals are remarkably large for it's size. fur short and very
fine.- the grass in their villages is not cut down as in those of the plains of the missouri.
I preserved the skins of several of these animals with the heads feet and legs entire. The
Black woodpecker which I have frequently mentioned and which is found in most parts of the
roky Mountains as well as the Western and S. W. mountains. I had never an opportunity of examining
untill a few days since when we killed and preserved several of them. this bird is about the
size of the lark woodpecker of the turtle dove, tho it's wings are longer than either of those
birds. the beak is black, one inch long, reather wide at the base, somewhat curved, and sharply
pointed; the chaps are of equal length. arround the base of the beak including the eye and
a small part of the throat is of a fine crimson red. the neck and as low as the croop in front
is of an iron grey. the belly and breast is a curious mixture of white and blood reed which
has much the appearance of having been artifically painted or stained of that colour. the red
reather predominates. the top of the head back, sides, upper surface of the wings and tail
are black, with a gossey tint of green in a certain exposure to the light. the under side of
the wings and tail are of a sooty black. it has ten feathers in the tail, sharply pointed,
and those in the center reather longest, being 21/2 inches in length. the tongue is barbed,
pointed, and of an elastic cartelaginous substance. the eye is moderately large, puple black
and iris of a dark yellowish brown. this bird in it's actions when flying resembles the small
redheaded woodpecke common to the Atlantic states; it's note also somewhat resembles that bird.
the pointed tail seems to assist it in seting with more eas or retaining it its resting position
against the perpendicular side of a tree. the legs and feet are black and covered with wide
imbricated scales. it has four toes on each foot of which two are in rear and two in front;
the nails are much curved long and remarkably keen or sharply pointed. it feeds on bugs worms
and a variety of insects.

[Clark, May 27, 1806] Tuesday 27th May 1806 A cloudy morning Serjt. Pryor and party Set out
at 7 A.M. Serjt. Ordway and two men are ordered to cross this river and proceed on through
the plains to Lewis's and precure Some Salmon on that river, and return tomorrow if possible
he Set out at 8 A.M. we Sent Rub. Serjt. Pryor, Gibson & Shields returned from the Village
with a good Stock of roots and bread. Shabono Lapage & Yourk whome we had Sent to purchase
roots for ourselves remained at the Village all night. Drewyer, Labiech & Crusat return at
4 P.M. with 5 Deer which they had killed at Some distance up Collin's Creek on this Side, that
Stream Still continue So high that they could not pass it.

Shabono's child is much better to day; tho the Swelling on the Side of his neck I believe will
termonate in an ugly imposthume a little below the ear. The Indians were so anxious that the
Sick Chief (who has lost the use of his limbs) Should be Sweted under our inspection they requested
me to make a 2d attempt to day; accordingly the hole was enlargened and his father a very good
looking old man performed all the drugery &c. we could not make him Swet as copously as we
wished. being compelled to keep him erect in the hole by means of Cords. after the oppiration
he complained of Considerable pain, I gave him 30 drops of Laudnom which Soon composed him
and he rested very well-. I observe the Strongest marks of parental affection. they all appear
extreemly attentive to this Sick man, no do they appear to relax in their ascituity towards
him not withstanding he has been Sick and helpless for near 5 years. The Chopunnish appeare
to be very attentive & kind to their aged people and treat their women with more respect than
the nativs on the Missouri.

[Lewis, May 28, 1806] Wednesday May 28th 1806. We sent Goodrich to the village of the broken
arm this morning he returned in the evening with some roots bread and a parsel of goats-hair
for making our saddle pads. Reubin and Joseph Feilds set out this morning to hunt high up on
a creek which discharges itself into this river about 8 miles above us. at Noon Charbono, York
and Lapage returned; they had obtained four bags of the dryed roots of Cows and some bread.
in the evening Collins Shannon and Colter returned with eight deer. they had fortunately discovered
a ford on Collins's Creek where they were enabled to pass it with their horses and had hunted
at the quawmash ground where we first met with the Chopunnish last fall. deer were very abundant
they informed us, but there were not many bear. The sick Cheif was much better this morning
he can use his hands and arms and seems much pleased with the prospect of recovering, he says
he feels much better than he has for a great number of months. I sincerely wish these sweats
may restore him; we have consented that he should still remain with us and repeat these sweats.
he set up a great proportion of the day.- The Child is also better, he is free of fever, the
imposthume is not so large but seems to be advancing to maturity.- since my arrival here I
have killed several birds of the corvus genus of a kind found only in the rocky mountains and
their neighbourhood. Jo. & R. Fields Set out this morning to hunt towards the mountains. at
noon Shabono York and Lapage returned. they had obtained 4 bags of the dried roots of Cowse
and Some bread. in the evening Collins, Shannon & Cotter returned with 8 deer. they fortunately
discovered a ford on Collin's Creek where they were enable to pass it with there horses and
had hunted at the quawmash Grounds where we first met with the Chopunnish last fall. deer were
verry abundant they informed us, but there was not many bear. The Sick Chief is much better
this morning he can use his hands and arms and Seems much pleased with the prospects of recovering,
he Says he feels much better than he has done for a great Number of Months. I Sincerly wish
that the Swetts may restore him. I have Consented to repeet the Sweets. The Cows is also frequently
dried in the Sun and pounded afterwards and used in thickening Supe and Makeing Mush.

The Chopunnish held a Council in the morning of the 12th among themselves in respect to the
Subject on which we had Spoken to them the day before, the result as we learnt was favourable,
they placed Confidence in the information they had recived and resolved to pursue our advise.
after this Council was over the principal Chief or the broken arm, took the flour of the roots
of Cows and thickened the Soup in the Kitiles and baskets of all his people, this being ended
he made a harangue the purpote of which was makeing known the deliberations of their councils
and impressing the necessity of unanimity among them, and a strict attention to the resolution
which had been agreed on in Councell; he concluded by enviting all such men as had resolved
to abide by the decree of the councill to come and eat, and requested Such as would not be
So bound to Show themselves by not partakeing of the feast. They Said that they were pore but
their hearts were good. we might be assured of their sincerety. Shabonos Child is better this
day that he was yesterday. he is free from fever. the imposthume is not So large but Seems
to be advanceing to meturity-.

[Lewis, May 29, 1806] Thursday May 29th 1806. No movement of the party today worthy of notice.
we have once more a good stock of meat and roots. Bratton is recovering his strength very fast;
the Child and the Indian Cheif are also on the recovery. the cheif has much more uce of his
hands and arms. he washed his face himself today which he has been unable to do previously
for more than twelvemonths. we would have repeated the sweat today had not been cloudy and
frequently raining. a speceis of Lizzard called by the French engages prarie buffaloe are native
of these plains as well as of those of the Missouri. I have called them the horned Lizzard.
they are about the size and a good deel the figure of the common black lizzard. but their bellies
are broader, the tail shorter and their action much slower; they crawl much like the toad.
they are of brown colour with yellowish and yellowishbrown spots. it is covered with minute
scales intermixed with little horny prosesses like blont prickles on the upper surface of the
body. the belley and throat is more like the frog and are of a light yelowish brown colour.
arround the edge of the belley is regularly set with little horney projections which give to
those edges a serrate figure the eye is small and of a dark colour. above and behind the eyes
there are several projections of the bone which being armed at their extremities with a firm
black substance has the appearance of horns sprouting out from the head. this part has induced
me to distinguish it by the apppellation of the horned Lizzard. I cannot conceive how the engages
ever assimilated this animal with the buffaloe for there is not greater analogy than between
the horse and the frog. this animal is found in greatest numbers in the sandy open parts of
the plains, and appear in great abundance after a shower of rain; they are sometimes found
basking in the sunshine but conceal themselves in little holes in the earth much the greater
preportion of their time. they are numerous about the falls of the Missouri and in the plains
through which we past lately above the Wallahwallahs.- The Choke Cherry has been in blume since
the 20th inst. it is a simple branching ascending stem. the cortex smooth and of a dark brown
with a redish cast. the leaf is scattered petiolate oval accute at its apex finely serrate
smooth and of an ordinary green. from 11/2 to 3 inches in length and 13/4 to 2 in width. the
peduncles are common, cilindric, and from 4 to 5 inches in length and are inserted promiscuously
on the twigs of the preceeding years growth. on the lower portion of the common peduncle are
frequently from 3 to 4 small leaves being the same in form as those last discribed. other peduncles
1/4 of an inch in length are thickly scattered and inserted on all sides of the common peduncle
at wright angles with it each elivating a single flower, which has five obtuse short patent
white petals with short claws inserted on the upper edge of the calyx. the calyx is a perianth
including both stamens and germ, one leafed fine cleft entire simiglobular, infrior, deciduous.
the stamens are upwards of twenty and are seated on the margin of the flower cup or what I
have called the perianth. the filaments are unequal in length subulate inflected and superior
membranous. the anthers are equal in number with the filaments, they are very short oblong
& flat, naked and situated at the extremity of the filaments, is of a yelow colour as is also
the pollen. one pistillum. the germen is ovate, smooth, superior, sessile, very small; the
Style is very short, simple, erect, on the top of the germen, deciduous. the stigma is simple,
flat very short.-

[Clark, May 29, 1806] Thursday 29th of May 1806 No movement of the party to day worthy of notice.
we have once more a good Stock of Meat and roots. Bratten is recovering his Strength very fast.
the Child, and the Indian Cheaf are also on the recovery. the Chief has much more use of his
hands and arms. he washed his face himself today. Which he has not been able to do previously
for more than twelve months past. I would have repeeted the Sweat to day had it not been Cloudy
and frequently raining.-. This Shrub rises to the hight of from 6 to 8 feet generally but Sometimes
rich Situations much higher. it is not confined to any particular Situation Capt. L-s met with
a singular plant in blume of which we preserved a Specimene. it grows on the Steep fertile
hill Sides near this place the radix is fibrous, not much branched, annual, woody, white and
nearly Smooth. the Stem is Simple branching ascending 21/2 feet high. Celindric, villose and
of a pale red Colour. the branches are but fiew and those near it's upper extremity. the extremities
of the branches are flexable and are bent down near their extremities with the weight of the
flowers. the leaf is sessile, scattered thinly, nearly lineor tho Somewhat widest in the middle,
two inches in length, absolutely entire, villose, obtusely pointed and of an Ordinary green.
above each leaf a Small Short branch protrudes, Supporting a tissue of four or five Small leaves
of the Same appearance of those discribed. a leaf is placed under neath each branch and each
flower. the Calyx is one flowered Spatha. the corolla Superior, consists of four pale perple
petals which are tripartite, the Centeral lobe largest and all terminate obtusely; they are
inserted with a long and narrow claw on the top of the germ, are long, Smooth and deciduous.
there are two distinct Sets of Stamens the first or principal Consists of four, the filaments
which are capillary, erect, inserted on the top of the germ alternately with the petals, equal
short, membranus; the anthers are also four each being elivated with it's fillaments; they
are reather flat, erect sessile, cohering to the base, membranous, longitudinally furrowed,
twise as long as the fillament naked, and of a pale purple colour, the Second Set of Stamens
are very minute, are also four and placed within and opposit to the petals, those are Scercely
precptable while the first are large & Conspicious, the fillaments are capillary equal, very
Short white and Smooth. the anthers are four, oblong, beaked, erect Cohering at the base, membanous,
Shorter than the fillaments, White naked and appear not to form pollen, there is one pistillum;
the germ of which is also one, celindric, villous, inferior, Sessile, as long as the first
Stamuns, and grooved. the Single Style and Stigma form a perfect mono petallous corolla only
with this difference that the Style which elivates the Stigma or limb is not a tube but solid
tho it's outer appearance is that of a tube of a Monopetallous corolla swelling as it ascends
and gliding in such manner into the limb that it Cannot be Said where the Style ends or the
Stigma begins, jointly they are as long as the Gorilla, while the limb is four cleft, Sauser
Shaped, and the margin of the lobes entire and rounded. this has the appearance of a monopetallous
flower growing from the Center of the four petalled corollar which is rendered more conspicuous
in consequence of the first being white and the latter of a pale purple. I regret very much
that the Seed of this plant are not ripe as yet and it is probable will not be so dureing our
residence in this neighbourhood-. our Horses maney of them have become So wild that we Cannot
take them without the assistance of the indians who are extreemly dextrous in throwing a Rope
and takeing them with a noose about the neck; as we frequently want the use of our horses when
we cannot get the use of the indians to take them, we had a Strong pound formed to day in order
to take them at pleasure-

[Lewis, May 30, 1806] Friday May 30th 1806. Lapage and Charbono set out to the indian vilages
early this morning for the purpose of trading with them for roots; Sergt. Gass was sent this
morning to obtain some goats hair to stuff the padds of our saddles. he ascended the river
on this side and being unable to pass the river opposite to the village he wished to visit,
returned in the evening unsuccessfull. Shannon and Collins were permitted to pass the river
in order to trade with the natives and lay in a store of roots and bread for themselves with
their proportion of the merchandize as the others had done; in landing on the opposite shore
the canoe was driven broad side with the full forse of a very strong current against some standing
trees and instantly filled with water and sunk. Potts who was with them is an indifferent swimer,
it was with much difficulty he made the land. they lost three blankets a blanket coat and their
pittance of merchandize. in our bear state of clootheing this was a serious loss. I sent Sergt.
Pryor and a party over with the indian canoe in order to raise and secure ours but the debth
of the water and the strength of the current baffled every effort. I fear that we have also
lost our canoe. all our invalides are on the recovery. we gave the sick Cheif a severe sweat
today, shortly after which he could move one of his legs and thyes and work his toes pretty
well, the other leg he can move a little; his fingers and arms seem to be almost entirely restored.
he seems highly delighted with his recovery. I begin to entertain strong hope of his restoration
by these sweats. in the evening Joseph Feild returned in surch of his horses which had left
them last evening and returned to camp. Feilds informed us that himself and his brother whom
he had left at their camp 6 ms. distant on Collin's creek, had killed 3 deer. The reptiles
which I have observed in this quarter are the Rattlesnake of the speceis discribed on the Missouri,
they are abundant in every part of the country and are the only poisonous snake which we have
yet met with since we left St. Louis. the 2 speceis of snakes of an inosent kind already discribed.
the common black lizzard, the horned lizzard, a smal green tree frog, the smal frog which is
common to our country which sings in the spring of the year, a large speceis of frog which
resorts the water considerably larger than our bull frog, it's shape seems to be a medium between
the delicate and lengthy form of our bull frog and that of our land frog or toad as they are
sometimes called in the U States. like the latter their bodies are covered with little pustles
or lumps, elivated above the ordinary surface of the body; I never heard them make any sound
or nois. the mockerson snake or coperhead, a number of vipers a variety of lizzards, the toad
bullfrog &c common to the U States are not to be found in this country. most of the insects
common to the U States are found here. the butterflies, common house and blowing flies, the
horse flies, except the goald coloured ear fly, tho in stead of this fly we have a brown coloured
fly about the same size which attatches itself to that part of the horse and is equally as
troublesome. the silkworm is also found here. a great variety of beatles common to the Atlantic
states are found here likewise. except from this order the large cow beatle and the black beatle
usually alled the tumble bug which are not found here. the hornet, the wasp and yellow wasp
or yellow jacket as they are frequently called are not met with in this quarter. there is an
insect which much resembles the latter only a vast deel larger which are very numerous particularly
in the rocky mountains on the waters of the Columbia; these build in the ground where they
form a nest like the hornet with an outer covering to the comb in which they deposit their
eggs and raise their young. the sheets of this comb are attatched to each other as those of
the hornets are. their wings are four of a dark brown colour. the head is black, the body and
abdomen are yellow incircled with transverse rings of black, they are ferce and sting very
severely, we found them troublesome in frightening our horses as we passed those mountains.
the honey bee is not found here. the bumble bee is. one of the men brought me today some onions
from the high plain of a different speceis from those near the borders of the river as they
are also from the shive or small onion noticed below the falls of the Columbia. these onions
were as large as a nutmeg, they generally grow double or two bulbs connected by the same tissue
of radicles; each bulb has two long liniar flat solid leaves. the peduncle is solid celindric
and crowned with an umbal of from 20 to 30 flowers. this onion is exceedingly crisp and delicately
flavoured indeed I think more sweet and less strong than any I ever taisted. it is not yet
perfectly in blow, the parts of the flower are not distinct.

[Clark, May 30, 1806] Friday May 30th 1806. Lapage and Shabono Set out early this morning to
the Indian Village in order to trade with them for roots; Serjt. Gass was Sent this morning
to obtain Some goats hair to Stuf the pads of our Saddles; he assended the river on this Side
and being unable to pass the river to the village he wished to visit returned in the evening
unsucksessfull. I Sent Serjt. Goodrich and Willard visited the indian Villages this morning
and returned in the evening. Willard brought with him the dressed skin of a bear which he had
purchased for Capt. C. this skin was an uniform pale redish brown colour, the indians informed
us that it was not the Hoh-host or white bear, that it was the Yack-kah. this distinction of
the indians induced us to make further enquiry relative to their opinons of the several speceis
of bear in this country. we produced the several skins of the bear which we had killed at this
place and one very nearly white which I had purchased. The white, the deep and plale red grizzle,
the dark bron grizzle, and all those which had the extremities of the hair of a white or frosty
colour without regard to the colour of the ground of the poil, they designated Hoh-host and
assured us that they were the same with the white bear, that they ascosiated together, were
very vicisious, never climbed the trees, and had much longer nails than the others. the black
skins, those which were black with a number of intire white hairs intermixed, the black with
a white breast, the uniform bey, brown and light redish brown, they designated the Yack-kah;-said
that they climbed the trees, had short nails and were not vicious, that they could pursue them
and kill them with safety, they also affirmed that they were much smaller than the white bear.
I am disposed to adopt the Indian distinction with rispect to these bear and consider them
two distinct speceis. the white and the grizzly of this neighbourhood are the same of those
found on the upper portion of the Missouri where the other speceis are not, and that the uniform
redish brown black &c of this neighbourhood are a speceis distinct from our black bear and
from the black bear of the Pacific coast which I believe to be the same with those of the Atlantic
coast, and that the common black bear do not exist here. I had previously observed that the
claws of some of the bear which we had killed here had much shorter tallons than the variagated
or white bear usually have but supposed that they had woarn them out by scratching up roots,
and these were those which the indians called Yak-kah. on enquiry I found also that a cub of
an uniform redish brown colour, pup to a female black bear intermixed with entire white hairs
had climbed a tree. I think this a distinct speceis from the common black bear, because we
never find the latter of any other colour than an uniform black, and also that the poil of
this bear is much finer thicker and longer with a greater proportion of fur mixed with the
hair, in other ispects they are much the same.- This evening Joseph and R. Feilds returned
with the three deer which they had killed. The Indians brought us another of our origional
Stock of horses; there are only two absent now of those horses, and these the indians inform
us that our shoshone guide rode back when he returned. we have sixty five horses at this time,
most of them in excellent order and fine strong active horses.-

The Indians pursued a mule deer to the river opposite to our camp this evening; the deer swam
over and one of our hunters killed it. there being a large party of indians assembled on this
occasion on the opposite side, Hohast-ill-pilp desired them to raise our canoe which was sunk
on that side of the river yesterday; they made the attempt but were unable to effect it. We
produced the Several Skins of the bear which our hunters had killed at this place and one very
nearly white which Capt Lewis had purchased. the White, the deep and pale red grizzle, the
dark brown grizzle, and all those that had the extremities of the hair of a White or frosty
Colour without reguard to the Colour of the ground of the poil, they disignated Hoh-host and
assured us that they were the Same with the White bear, that they associated together, were
very vicisious, never climb the trees, and had much longer nails than the others.

[Lewis, June 1, 1806] Sunday June 1st 1806. Yesterday evening Charbono an LaPage returned,
having made a broken voyage. they ascended the river on this side nearly opposite to a village
eight miles above us, here their led horse which had on him their merchandize, feell into the
river from the side of a steep clift and swam over; they saw an indian on the opposite side
whom they prevailed on to drive their horse back again to them; in swiming the river the horse
lost a dressed Elkskin of LaPages and several small articles, & their paint was destroyed by
the water. here they remained and dryed their articles the evening of the 30th Ult. the indians
at the village learning their errand and not having a canoe, made an attempt esterday morning
to pass the river to them on a raft with a parsel of roots and bread in order to trade with
them; the indian raft struck a rock, upset and lost thir cargo; the river having fallen heir
to both merchandize and roots, our traders returned with empty bags. This morning Drewyer accompanyed
by Hohastillpilp set out in surch of two tomahawks of ours which we have understood were in
the possession of certain indians residing at a distance in the plains on the South side of
the Kooskoske; the one is a tomahawk which Capt. C. left at our camp on Musquetoe Creek and
the other was stolen from us while we lay at the forks of this and the Chopunnish rivers last
fall. Colter and Willard set out this morning on a hunting excurtion towards the quamash grounds
beyond Collins's Creek. we begin to feel some anxiety with rispect to Sergt. I regret very
much that the seed of this plant are not yet ripe and it is proble will not be so during my
residence in this neighbourhood.

[Clark, June 1, 1806] Sunday June 1st 1806. This morning Geo. McNeal and york were sent on
a trading voyage over the river this morning. having exhausted all our merchandize we are obliged
to have recourse to every subterfuge in order to prepare in the most ample manner in our power
to meet that wretched portion of our journy, the Rocky Mountain, where hungar and cold in their
most rigorous forms assail the waried traveller; not any of us have yet forgotten our sufferings
in those mountains in September last, and I think it probable we never shall. Our traders McNeal
and York were furnished with the buttons which Capt. C. and myself cut off our coats, some
eye water and Basilicon which we made for that purpose and some Phials and small tin boxes
which I had brought out with Phosphorus. in the evening they returned with about 3 bushels
of roots and some bread having made a successful) voyage, not much less pleasing to us than
the return of a good cargo to an East India Merchant.- Collins, Sheilds, R & J. Feilds and
Shannon set out on a hunting excurtion to the Quawmash grounds on the lower side of Collins's
Creek. our horses many of them have become so wild that we cannot take them without the assistance
of the Indians who are extreemly dextrous in throwing a rope and taking them with a noose about
the neck; as we frequently want the use of our horses when we cannot get the assistance of
the indians to take them, we had a strong pound formed today in order to take them at pleasure.
Drewyer arrived this evening with Neeshneparkkeeook and Hohastillpilp who had accompanyed him
to the lodges of the persons who had our tomahawks. he obtained both the tomahawks principally
by the influence of the former of these Cheifs. the one which had been stolen we prized most
as it was the private property of the late Sergt. Floyd and Capt. C. was desireous of returning
it to his friends. the man who had this tomahawk had purchased it from the Indian that had
stolen it, and was himself at the moment of their arrival just expiring. his relations were
unwilling to give up the tomehawk as they intended to bury it with the disceased owner, but
were at length induced to do so for the consideration of a hadkerchief, two strands of beads,
which Drewyer gave them and two horses given by the cheifs to be killed agreeably to their
custom at the grave of the disceased. The bands of the Chopunnish who reside above the junction
of Lewis's river and the Kooskooske bury their dead in the earth and place stones on the grave.
they also stick little splinters of wood in betwen the interstices of the irregular mass of
stone piled on the grave and afterwards cover the whole with a roof of board or split timber.
the custom of sacreficing horses to the disceased appears to be common to all the nations of
the plains of Columbia. a wife of Neeshneeparkkeeook died some short time since, himself and
hir relations saceficed 28 horses to her. The Indians inform us that there are a plenty of
Moos to the S. E. of them on the East branch of Lewis's river which they call Tommanamah R.
about Noon Sergt. Ordway Frazier and Wizer returned with 17 salmon and some roots of cows;
the distance was so great from which they had brought the fish that most of them were nearly
spoiled. these fish were as fat as any I ever saw; sufficiently so to cook themselves without
the addition of grease; those which were sound were extreemly delicious; their flesh is of
a fine rose colour with a small admixture of yellow. these men set out on the 27th ult. and
in stead of finding the fishing shore at the distance of half a days ride as we had been informed,
they did not reach the place at which they obtained their fish untill the evening of the 29th
having travelled by their estimate near 70 miles. the rout they had taken however was not a
direct one; the Indians conducted them in the first instance to the East branch of Lewis's
river about 20 miles above it's junction with the South branch, a distance of about 50 Ms.
where they informed them they might obtain fish; but on their arrival at that place finding
that the salmon had not yet arrived or were not taken, they were conducted down that river
to a fishery a few miles below the junction of the forks of Lewis's river about 20 Ms. further,
here with some difficulty and remaining one day they purchased the salmon which they brought
with them. the first 20 Ms. of their rout was up Commeap Creek and through a plain open country,
the hills of the creek continued high and broken with some timber near it's borders. the ballance
of their rout was though a high broken mountanous country generally well timbered with pine
the soil fertile in this quarter they met with an abundance of deer and some bighorned animals.
the East fork of Lewis's river they discribe as one continued rapid about 150 Yds.