No. 8.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE THEATER IN RUSSIA AND POLAND.

The following interesting sketch of the Drama in the empire of the Czar is translated for the
International from the Leipzig Grenzboten. The facts it states are not only new to most readers,
but throw incidentally a good deal of light on the condition of that vast empire, and the state
of its population in respect of literature and art in general:

       *       *       *       *       *

The dramatic taste of a people, the strength of its productive faculty, the gradual development
of its most popular sphere of art, the theater, contain the key to phases of its character
which cannot always be recognized with the same exactness from other parts of its history.
The tendencies and disposition of the mass come out very plainly in their relations to dramatic
art, and from the audience of an evening at a theater some inference may be drawn as to the
whole political scope of the nation. In truth, however, this requires penetration as well as
cautious judgment.

In the middle of the last century there were in the kingdom of Poland, beside the royal art
institutions at Warsaw, four strong dramatic companies, of genuine Polish stamp, which gave
performances in the most fashionable cities. Two of them were so excellent that they often
had the honor to play before the court. The peculiarity of these companies was that they never
performed foreign works, but literally only their own. The managers were either themselves
poets, or had poets associated with them in business. Each was guided by his poet, as Wallenstein
by his astrologer. The establishment depended on its dramatic ability, while its performances
were limited almost exclusively to the productions of its poet. The better companies, however,
were in the habit of making contracts with each other, by which they exchanged the plays of
their dramatists. This limitation to native productions perhaps grew partly out of the want
of familiarity with foreign literature, partly from national feeling, and partly from the fact
that the Polish taste was as yet little affected by that of the Germans, French, or English.
In these circumstances there sprung up a poetic creative faculty, which gave promise of a good
and really national drama. And even now, after wars, revolutions, and the schemes of foreign
rulers have alternately destroyed and degraded the stage, and after the Poles have become poetically
as well as politically mere satellites of French ideas and culture, there still exist, as respectable
remains of the good old time, a few companies of players, which, like their ancient predecessors,
have their own poets, and perform only his pieces, or at least others of Polish origin that
he has arranged and adapted. Such a company, whose principal personage is called Richlawski,
is now in Little Poland, in the cities Radom, Kielce, Opatow, Sandomir, &c. A second, which
generally remains in the Government of Kalisch, is under the direction of a certain Felinski,
and through his excellent dramatic compositions has gained a reputation equal to that of the
band of Strauss in music. Yet these companies are only relics. The Polish drama in general
has now a character and destiny which was not to be expected a hundred years since.

The origin of the Russian theater is altogether more recent. It is true that Peter the Great
meddled a good deal with the theater as well as with other things, but it was not till the
Empress Catharine that dramatic literature was really emancipated by the court. Under Alexander
and Nicholas the most magnificent arrangements have been made in every one of the cities that
from time to time is honored by the residence of the Emperor, so that Russia boasts of possessing
five theaters, two of which excel everything in Europe in respect to size and splendor, but
yet possesses no sort of taste for dramatic art. The stage, in the empire of the Muscovites,
is like a rose-bush grafted on a wild forest tree. It has not grown up naturally from a poetic
want in the people, and finds in the country little or nothing in the way of a poetic basis.
Accordingly, the theater in Russia is in every respect a foreign institution. Not national
in its origin, it has not struck its roots into the heart of the people. Only here and there
a feeble germ of theatrical literature has made its way through the obstinate barbarism of
the Russian nature. The mass have no feeling for dramatic poetry, while the cultivated classes
exhibit a most striking want of taste.

But in Russia everything is inverted. What in other nations is the final result of a long life,
is there the beginning. A natural development of the people appears to its rulers too circuitous,
and in fact would in many things require centuries of preparation. Accordingly, they seek to
raise their subjects to the level of other races by forcing them outwardly to imitate their
usages. Peter the Great says in his testament: "Let there be no intermission in teaching the
Russian people European forms and customs." The theater in Russia is one of these forms, and
from this it is easy to understand the condition it is in.

It is true there are in the country a few independent companies of players, but they are not
Russian, or at least were formed as a speculation by some foreigner. For example, Odessa has
often two such, and sometimes three. The Italian company is said to be good. The Russian, which
has now become permanent, has hitherto been under the management of a German, and has been
very poor. The company in Kiew consists mostly of Poles, from the old Polish provinces incorporated
with Russia, and has a high reputation. In Poland it would be possible in every little nest
of a city to get together a tolerable company for dramatic performance. In Russia it would
be much easier to raise an army. The ultimate reason of this striking contrast is the immense
dissimilarity in the character of the two nations. The Pole is remarkably sanguine, fiery,
enthusiastic, full of ideality and inspiration; the Russian is through and through material,
a lover of coarse physical pleasures, full of ability to fight and cut capers, but not endowed
with a capacity quickly to receive impressions and mentally elaborate them.

In this respect, the mass and the aristocracy, the serfs and their masters, are as alike as
twins. The noble is quite as coarse as the peasant. In Poland this is quite otherwise. The
peasant may be called a rough creature, but the noble is almost always a man of refinement,
lacking indeed almost always in scientific information, but never in the culture of a man of
the world. The reason of this is, that his active, impetuous soul finds constant occasion for
maintaining familiarity with the world around him, and really needs to keep up a good understanding
with it. The Russians know no such want.

Even in St. Petersburg the German was long much more successful than the native theater, though
the number of Russians there is seventeen times larger than that of the Germans. The Russians
who there visit the theater are the richest and most prominent members of the aristocracy.
They however consider the drama as simply a thing of fashion. Hence results the curious fact
that it is thought a matter of good taste to be present at the beginning but not to wait for
the end of a piece. It has happened that long before the performance was over the house was
perfectly empty, everyone following the fashion, in order not to seem deficient in public manners.
If there is ever a great attraction at the theater, it is not the play, but some splendid show.
The Russian lady, in studying the coiffure or the trailing-robe of an actress, forgets entirely
her part in this piece, if indeed she has ever had an adequate conception of it. For this reason,
at St. Petersburg and Moscow the ballet is esteemed infinitely higher than the best drama;
and if the management should have the command of the Emperor to engage rope-dancers and athletes,
circus-riders and men-apes, the majority of Russians would be of opinion that the theater had
gained the last point of perfection. This was the case in Warsaw several years ago, when the
circus company of Tourniare was there. The theaters gave their best and most popular pieces,
in order to guard against too great a diminution of their receipts. The Poles patriotically
gave the preference for the drama, but the Russians were steady adorers of Madame Tourniare
and her horse. In truth, the lady enjoyed the favor of Prince Paskiewich. General O---- boasted
that during the eleven months that the circus staid he was not absent from a single performance.
The Polish Count Ledochowski, on the other hand, said that he had been there but once when
he went with his children, and saw nothing of the performance, because he read Schiller's William
Tell every moment. This was Polish opposition to Russian favoritism, but it also affords an
indication of the national peculiarities of the two races.

From deficiency in taste for dramatic art arises the circumstance that talent for acting is
incomparably scarce among the Russians. Great as have been the efforts of the last emperors
of Russia to add a new splendor to their capitals by means of the theater, they have not succeeded
in forming from their vast nation artists above mediocrity, except in low comedy. At last it
was determined to establish dramatic schools in connection with the theaters and educate players;
but it appears that though talent can be developed, it cannot be created at the word of command.
The Emperor Nicholas, or rather his wife, was, as is said, formerly so vexed at the incapacity
of the Russians for dramatic art, that it was thought best to procure children in Germany for
the schools. The Imperial will met with hindrance, and he contented himself with taking children
of the German race from his own dominions. The pride of the Russians did not suffer in consequence.

While poetry naturally precedes dramatic art, the drama, on the other hand, cannot attain any
degree of excellence where the theater is in such a miserable state. It is now scarcely half
a century since the effort was begun to remove the total want of scientific culture in the
Russian nation, but what are fifty years for such a purpose, in so enormous a country? The
number of those who have received the scientific stimulus and been carried to a degree of intellectual
refinement is very small, and the happy accident by which a man of genius appears among the
small number must be very rare. And in this connection it is noteworthy, that the Russian who
feels himself called to artistic production almost always shows a tendency to epic composition.

The difficulties of form appear terrible to the Russian. In romance-writing the form embarrasses
him less, and accordingly they almost all throw themselves into the making of novels.

As is generally the case in the beginning of every nation's literature, any writer in Russia
is taken for a miracle, and regarded with stupor. The dramatist Kukolnik is an example of this.
He has written a great deal for the theater, but nothing in him is to be praised so much as
his zeal in imitation. It must be admitted that in this he possesses a remarkable degree of
dexterity. He soon turned to the favorite sphere of romance writing, but in this also he manifests
the national weakness. In every one of his countless works the most striking feature is the
lack of organization. They were begun and completed without their author's ever thinking out
a plot, or its mode of treatment.

Kukolnik's "Alf and Adona," in which at least one hundred and fifty characters are brought
upon the stage, has not one whose appearance is designed to concentrate the interest of the
audience. Each comes in to show himself, and goes out not to be in the way any longer. Everything
is described and explained with equal minuteness, from the pile of cabbages by the wayside,
to the murder of a prince; and instead of a historical action there is nothing but unconnected
details. The same is the case with his "Eveline and Baillerole," in which Cardinal Richelieu
is represented as a destroyer of the aristocracy, and which also is made up of countless unconnected
scenes, that in part are certainly done with some neatness. These remarks apply to the works
of Iwan Wanenko and I. Boriczewski, to I. Zchewen's "Sunshine", five volumes strong; to the
compositions of Wolkow, Czerujawski, Ulitinins, Th. Van Dim, (a pseudonym,) in fact to everything
that has yet appeared.

On the part of the Imperial family, as we have already said, everything has been done for the
Russian stage that could possibly be done, and is done no where else. The extremest liberality
favors the artists, schools are provided in order to raise them from the domain of gross buffoonery
to that of true art, the most magnificent premiums are given to the best, actors are made equal
in rank to officers of state, they are held only to twenty-five years' service, reckoning from
their debut,--and finally, they receive for the rest of their lives a pension equal to their
full salaries. High rewards are given to Russian star-actors, in order if possible to draw
talent of every sort forth from the dry steppes of native art. The Russian actors are compelled
on pain of punishment to go regularly to the German theater, with a view to their improvement,
and in order to make this as effective as may be, enormous compensations attract the best German
stars to St. Petersburg. And yet all this is useless, and the Russian theater is not raised
above the dignity of a workshop. Only the comic side of the national character, a burlesque
and droll simplicity, is admirably represented by actors whose skill and the scope of whose
talents may he reckoned equal to the Germans in the same line. But in the higher walks of the
drama they are worthless. The people have neither cultivation nor sentiment for serious works,
while the poets to produce them, and the actors to represent them, are alike wanting.

Immediately after the submission of Poland in 1831, the theaters, permanent and itinerant,
were closed. The plan was conceived of not allowing them to be reöpened until they could be
occupied by Russian performers. But as the Government recovered from its first rage, this was
found to be impracticable. The officers of the garrisons in Poland, however numerous, could
never support Russian theaters, and besides, where were the performers to come from? In Warsaw,
however, it was determined to force a theater into existence, and a Russian newspaper was already
established there. The power of the Muscovites has done great things, built vast fortresses
and destroyed vaster, but it could not accomplish a Russian theater at Warsaw. Even the paper
died before it had attained a regular life, although it cost a great deal of money.

Finally came the permission to reöpen the Polish theater, and indeed the caprice which was
before violent against it, was now exceedingly favorable, but of course not without collateral
purposes. The scanty theater on the Krasinski place, which was alone in Warsaw, except the
remote circus and the little theater of King Stanislaus Augustus, was given up, and the sum
of four millions of florins ($1,600,000) devoted to the erection of two large and magnificent
theaters. The superintendence of the work of building and the management of the performances
was, according to the Russian system, intrusted to one General Rautenstrauch, a man seventy
years old, and worn out both in mind and body. The two theaters were erected under one roof,
and arranged on the grandest and most splendid scale. The edifice is opposite the City Hall,
occupies a whole side of the main public place, and is above 750 feet in length. The pit in
each is supported by a series of immense, stupid, square pilasters, such as architecture has
seldom witnessed out of Russia. Over these pilasters stands the first row of boxes supported
by beautifully wrought Corinthian columns, and above these rise three additional rows. The
edifice is about 160 feet high and is the most colossal building in Warsaw. As it was designed
to treat the actors in military fashion and according to Russian style, the building was laid
out like barracks and about seven hundred persons live in it, most of them employed about the
theater. The two stages were built by a German architect under the inspection of the General
whose peremptory suggestions were frequent and injurious. Both the great theater as it is called,
which has four rows of boxes, and can contain six thousand auditors, and the Varieté theater
which is very much smaller, are fitted out with all sorts of apparatus that ever belonged to
a stage. In fact, new machinery has in many cases been invented for them and proved totally
useless. The Russian often hits upon queer notions when he tries to show his gifts.

On one side a very large and strong bridge has been erected leading from the street to the
stage, to be used whenever the piece requires large bodies of cavalry to make their appearance,
and there are machines that can convey persons with the swiftness of lightning down from the
sky above the stage, a distance of 56 feet. A machine for which a ballet has been composed
surpasses everything I ever saw in its size; it serves to transport eighty persons together
on a seeming cloud from the roof to the foot-lights. I was astonished by it when I first beheld
it although I had seen the machines of the grand opera at Paris: the second time I reflected
that it alone cost 40,000 florins [$16,000].

Under the management of two Russian Generals, who have hitherto been at the head of the establishment,
a vast deal has in this way been accomplished for mere external show.

The great Russian theatre of St. Petersburg has served for a model, and accordingly nothing
has really been improved except that part of the performance which is farthest removed from
genuine art, namely the ballet. That fact is that out of Paris the ballet is nowhere so splendid
as in the great theater at Warsaw, not even at St. Petersburg, for the reason that the Russian
is inferior to the Pole in physical beauty and grace. Heretofore the corps of the St. Petersburg
ballet has twice been composed of Poles, but this arrangement has been abandoned as derogatory
to the national honor. The sensual attractions of the ballet render it the most important thing
in the theater. A great school for dancers has been established, where pupils may be found
from three to eighteen years old. It is painful to see the little creatures, hardly weaned
from their mothers' breasts--twisted and tortured for the purposes of so doubtful an occupation
as dancing. The school contains about two hundred pupils, all of whom occasionally appear together
on the boards, in the ballet of Charis and Flora, for instance, when they receive a trifling
compensation. For the rest the whole ballet corps are bound to daily practice.

The taste of the Russians has made prominent in the ballet exactly those peculiarities which
are least to its credit. It must be pronounced exaggerated and lascivious. Aside from these
faults, which may be overlooked as the custom of the country, we must admit that the dancing
is uncommonly good.

The greater the care of the management for the ballet, the more injurious is its treatment
of the drama. This is melancholy for the artists and especially those who have come to the
imperial theater from the provinces, who are truly respectable and are equally good in comedy
and tragedy. The former has been less shackled than the latter for the reason that it turns
upon domestic life. But tragedy is most frightfully treated by the political censorship, so
that a Polish poet can hardly expect to see his pieces performed on the stage of his native
country. Hundreds of words and phrases such as freedom, avenging sword, slave, oppression,
father-land, cannot be permitted and are stricken out. Accordingly nothing but the trumpery
of mere penny-a-liners is brought forward, though this sometimes assumes an appearance of originality.
These abortions remain on the stage only through the talent of the artists, the habit of the
public to expect nothing beyond dullness and stupidity in the drama, and finally, the severe
regulation which forbids any mark of disapprobation under pain of imprisonment. The best plays
are translated from the French, but they are never the best of their kind. To please the Russians
only those founded on civic life are chosen, and historical subjects are excluded. Princely
personages are not allowed to be introduced on the stage, nor even high officers of state,
such as ministers and generals. In former times the Emperor of China was once allowed to pass,
but more recently the Bey of Tunis was struck out and converted into an African nobleman. A
tragedy is inadmissible in any case, and should one be found with nothing objectionable but
its name, it is called drama.

In such circumstances we would suppose that the actors would lose all interest in their profession.
But this is not the case. At least the cultivated portion of the public at Warsaw never go
to the theater to see a poetic work of art, but only to see and enjoy the skill of the performers.
Of course there is no such thing as theatrical criticism at Warsaw; but everybody rejoices
when the actors succeed in causing the wretchedness of the piece to be forgotten. The universal
regret for the wretched little theater on the Krasinski place, where Suczkowska, afterward
Mad. Halpert, founded her reputation in the character of the Maid of Orleans, is the best criticism
on the present state of the drama.

The Russians take great delight in the most trivial pieces. Even Prince Paskiewich sometimes
stays till the close of the last act. To judge by the direction of his opera-glass, which is
never out of his hand, he has the fortune to discover poetry elsewhere than on the stage. In
truth the Warsaw boxes are adorned by beautiful faces. Even the young princess Jablonowska
is not the most lovely.

The arrangements of the Warsaw theaters are exactly like those of the Russian theater at St.
Petersburg, but almost without exception, the pupils of the dramatic school, of whom seventeen
have come upon the boards, have proved mere journeymen, and have been crowded aside by performers
from the provincial cities. None of the eminent artists of late years have enjoyed the advantages
of the school. The position of the actors at Warsaw is just the same as at St. Petersburg.
The day after their first appearance they are regularly taken into duty as imperial officials,
take an oath never to meddle with political affairs, nor join in any secret society, nor ever
to pronounce on the stage anything more or anything else than what is in the stamped parts
given them by the imperial management.

Actors' salaries at Warsaw are small in comparison with those of other countries. Forty or
fifty silver rubles a month ($26 to $33) pass for a very respectable compensation, and even
the very best performers rarely get beyond a thousand rubles a year ($650). Madame Halpert
long had to put up with that salary till once Taglioni said to Prince Paskiewich that it was
a shame for so magnificent an artist to be no better paid than a writer. Her salary was thereupon
raised one-half, and subsequently by means of a similar mediation she succeeded in getting
an addition of a thousand rubles yearly under the head of wardrobe expenses. This was a thing
so extraordinary that the managing General declared that so enormous a compensation would never
again be heard of in any imperial theatre. The pupils of the dramatic school receive eighteen
rubles monthly, and, according to their performances, obtain permission every two years to
ask an increase of salary. The period of service extends to twenty-five years, with the certainty
of a yearly pension equal to the salary received at the close of the period.

For the artist this is a very important arrangement, which enables him to endure a thousand
inconveniences.

There is no prospect of a better state of the Polish drama. Count Fedro may, in his comedies,
employ the finest satire with a view to its restoration, but he will accomplish nothing so
long as the Generals ride the theater as they would a war horse. On the other hand, no Russian
drama has been established, because the conditions are wanting among the people. That is a
vast empire, but poor in beauty; mighty in many things, but weak in artistic talents; powerful
and prompt in destruction, but incapable spontaneously and of itself to create anything.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEATH'S JEST BOOK, OR THE FOOL'S TRAGEDY."

The Examiner, for July 20, contains an elaborate review, with numerous extracts, of a play
just published under this title in London. "It is radiant," says the critic, "in almost every
page with passion, fancy, or thought, set in the most apposite and exquisite language. We have
but to discard, in reading it, the hope of any steady interest of story, or consistent development
of character: and we shall find a most surprising succession of beautiful passages, unrivaled
in sentiment and pathos, as well as in terseness, dignity, and picturesque vigor of language;
in subtlety and power of passion, as well as in delicacy and strength of imagination; and as
perfect and various, in modulation of verse, as the airy flights of Fletcher or Marlowe's mighty
line.

"The whole range of the Elizabethan drama has not finer expression, nor does any single work
of the period, out of Shakspeare, exhibit so many rich and precious bars of golden verse, side
by side with such poverty and misery of character and plot. Nothing can be meaner than the
design, nothing grander than the execution."

In conclusion, the Examiner observes--"We are not acquainted with any living author who could
have written the Fool's Tragedy; and, though the publication is unaccompanied by any hint of
authorship, we believe that we are correct in stating it to be a posthumous production of the
author of the Bride's Tragedy; Mr. Thomas Lovell Beddoes. Speaking of the latter production,
now more than a quarter of a century ago, (Mr. Beddoes was then, we believe, a student at Pembroke
College, Oxford, and a minor,) the Edinburgh Review ventured upon a prediction of future fame
and achievement for the writer, which an ill-chosen and ill-directed subsequent career unhappily
intercepted and baffled. But in proof of the noble natural gifts which suggested such anticipation,
the production before us remains: and we may judge to what extent a more steady course and
regular cultivation would have fertilized a soil, which, neglected and uncared for, has thrown
out such a glorious growth of foliage and fruit as this Fool's Tragedy."

       *       *       *       *       *

WINTHROP MACKWORTH PRAED.

Praed, it has always seemed to us, was the cleverest writer in his way that has ever contributed
to the English periodicals. His fugitive lyrics and arabesque romances, half sardonic and half
sentimental, published with Hookham Frere's "Whistlecraft" and Macaulay's Roundhead Ballads,
in Knight's Quarterly Magazine, and after the suspension of that work, for the most part in
the annual souvenirs, are altogether unequaled in the class of compositions described as vers
de societie.--Who that has read "School and School Fellows", "Palinodia", "The Vicar", "Josephine",
and a score of other pieces in the same vein, does not desire to possess all the author has
left us, in a suitable edition? It has been frequently stated in the English journals that
such a collection was to be published, under the direction of Praed's widow, but we have yet
only the volume prepared by a lover of the poet some years ago for the Langleys, in this city.
In the "Memoirs of Eminent Etonians," just printed by Mr. Edward Creasy, we have several waifs
of Praed's that we believe will be new to all our readers. Here is a characteristic political
rhyme:

VERSES

ON SEEING THE SPEAKER ASLEEP IN HIS CHAIR IN ONE OF THE DEBATES OF THE FIRST REFORMED PARLIAMENT.

  Sleep, Mr. Speaker, 'tis surely fair
  If you mayn't in your bed, that you should in your chair. Sweet to men
  Is the sleep that cometh but now and then,
  Sweet to the weary, sweet to the ill,
  Sweet to the children that work in the mill.
  You have more need of repose than they--
  Sleep, Mr. Speaker, sleep while you may!

The following is a spirited version of a dramatic scene in the second book of the Annals of
Tacitus:

ARMINIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMPBELL AND WASHINGTON IRVING.

The Editor of The Albion, in noticing the republication by the Harpers of the very interesting
Life and Letters of Thomas Campbell, by Dr. Beattie, has the following observations upon Mr.
Irving's introductory letter:

"WASHINGTON IRVING, at the request of the publishers, contributed a very interesting letter
to themselves, directing public notice to the value of this edition. He pays also a hearty
and deserved tribute, not only to the genius of Campbell, but to his many excellencies and
kindly specialities of character. The author of "Hohenlinden," and the "Battle of the Baltic"
stands in need of no man's praise as a lyric poet--but this sort of testimony to his private
worth is grateful and well-timed. Here is an interesting passage from Mr. Irving's introductory
communication. He is alluding to Campbell's fame and position, when he himself first made Campbell's
acquaintance in England.

"The foregoing is new to us, and full of a double interest. It is followed, however, by a statement,
that needs a word of explanation. It so happened that we ourselves were present at this dinner,
which took place in 1842; and the painful circumstance alluded to by Mr. Irving did not produce
the effect on us, that it appears to have produced on him. Without making a long story about
a trifle, we can call to mind no appearance of hostility or ill-will manifested on that occasion;
and on the contrary, recollect, in our immediate neighborhood, a mournful sense of distress
at the scene exhibited, and sufficiently hinted in the few unpleasant words we have italicized.
A muster of Englishmen preferred coughing down their favorite bard, to allowing him to mouth
out maudlin twaddle, before the Prince, then first formally introduced to the public, and before
a meeting whereat "was collected much of the prominent talent of the kingdom." Mr. Irving,
himself most deservedly a man of mark, looked on with much, surprise. Looking on ourselves
then, and writing now, as one of the public, and as one of the many to whom Campbell's name
and fame are inexpressibly dear, we honestly think that of two evils the lesser was chosen.
We think Mr. Hallam's lecture must have been inaudible to the greater part of the company."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Archbishop of Lemburgh has prohibited his clergy from wearing long hair like the peasants,
and from smoking in public, "like demagogues and sons of Baal."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Persians have a saying, that "Ten measures of talk were sent down upon the earth, and the
women took nine." If he were now in the vein of writing, what a stirring lyric all these circumstances
might suggest.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUDUBON AND WASHINGTON IRVING--THE PLAGUE OF RAILROADS.--The voyager up the Hudson will involuntarily
anathematize the invention of the rail, when he sees how much of the most romantic beauty has
been defaced or destroyed by that tyranny which, disregarding all private desire and justice,
has filled up bays, and cut off promontories, and leveled heights, to make way for the intrusive
and noisy car. But the effects of these so-called "improvements," upon the romantic in nature
will be forgotten if he considers the injury and wrong they cause to persons, and particularly
to those whose genius has contributed more to human happiness than all the inventions in oeconomical
art.

The Nestor of our naturalists, and in his field, the greatest as well as the oldest of our
artists, AUDUBON, with the comparatively slight gains of a long life of devotion to science,
and of triumphs which had made him world-renowned, purchased on the banks of the river, not
far from the city, a little estate which it was the joy as well as the care of his closing
years to adorn with everything that a taste so peculiarly and variously schooled could suggest.
He had made it a pleasing gate-way to the unknown world, with beautiful walks leading down
to the river whose depth and calmness and solemn grandeur symboled the waves through which
he should pass to the reward of a life of such toil and enviable glory. He had promise of an
evening worthy of his meridian--when the surveyors and engineers, with their charter-privileges,
invaded his retreat, built a road through his garden, destroyed forever his repose, and--the
melancholy truth is known--made of his mind a ruin.

WASHINGTON IRVING--now sixty-seven years of age--had found a resting-place at Wolfert's Roost,
close by the scenes which lie in the immortal beauty that radiates from his pages, and when
he thought that in this Tusculum he was safe from all annoying, free to enjoy the quietness
and ease he had earned from the world, the same vandals laid the track through his grounds,
not only destroying all their beauty and attraction, but leaving fens from which these summer
heats distilled contagion. He has therefore been ill for some weeks, and as he had never a
strong constitution, and has preserved his equable but not vigorous health only by the most
constant carefulness, his physicians and friends begin to be alarmed for the result. Heaven
avert the end they so fearfully anticipate. He cannot go alone: The honest Knickerbocker, the
gentle Crayon, and the faithful brother Agapida, with Washington Irving will forever leave
the world, which cannot yet resign itself to the loss of either.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. SEBA SMITH, so well known as the author of the "Letters of Major Jack Downing," and to
a different sort of readers for his more serious contributions to our literature, has just
completed the printing of an original and very remarkable work, upon which he has been engaged
about two years, entitled "New Elements of Geometry," and it will soon be published in this
city by Putnam, and in London by Bentley. It will probably produce a sensation in the world
of science. Its design is the reconstruction of the entire methods of Geometry. All geometers,
from the dawn of the science, have built their systems upon these definitions: A line is length
without breadth, and A surface is length and breadth, without thickness. Mr. Smith asserts
that these definitions are false, and sustains his position by numerous demonstrations in the
pure Euclidean style. He declares that every mathematical line has a definite breadth, which
is as measurable as its length, and that every mathematical surface has a thickness, as measurable
as the contents of any solid. His demonstrations, on diagrams, seem to be eminently clear,
simple, and conclusive. The effects of this discovery and these demonstrations are, to simplify
very much the whole subject of Geometry and mathematics, and to clear it of many obscurities
and difficulties. All geometers heretofore have claimed that there are three kinds of quantity
in Geometry, different in their natures, and requiring units of different natures to measure
them. Mr. Smith shows that there is but one kind of quantity in Geometry, and but one kind
of unit; and that lines, surfaces, and solids are always measured by the same identical unit.

Besides the leading features of the work which we have thus briefly described, it contains
many new and beautiful demonstrations of general principles in Geometry, to which the author
was lead by his new methods of investigation. Among these we may mention one, viz., "The square
of the hypothenuse of a right-angled triangle equals four times the area of the triangle, plus
the square of the difference of the other two sides." This principle has been known to mathematicians
by means of arithmetic and algebra, but has never before, we believe, been reduced to a geometrical
demonstration. The demonstration of this principle by Mr. Smith is one of the clearest, simplest,
and most beautiful in Geometry. The work is divided into three parts, I. The Philosophy of
Geometry, II. Demonstrations in Geometry, and III. Harmonies of Geometry. The demonstrative
character of it is occasionally enlivened by philosophical and historical observations, which
will add much to its interest with the general reader. We have too little skill in studies
of this sort to be altogether confident in our opinion, but certainly it strikes us from an
examination of the larger and more important portion of Mr. Smith's essay, that it is an admirable
specimen of statement and demonstration, and that it must secure to its author immediately
a very high rank in mathematical science. We shall await with much interest the judgments of
the professors. It makes a handsome octavo of some 200 pages.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. FLANDIN, an eminent dilettante and designer attached to the French embassy in Persia, has
published in the last number of the Revue des Deux Mondes an interesting memoir of the ruins
of Persepolis, under the title of "An Archaiological Journey in Persia." On his route to the
ruins he witnessed melancholy evidence, in the condition of the surface and population, of
the improvidence and noxiousness of Oriental despotism. He tells us that the remains of the
magnificent palace of Darius are dispersed over an immense plateau, which looks down on the
plain of Merdacht. "Assuredly, they are not much, compared with what they must have been in
the time of the last Prince who sheltered himself under the royal roof. Nevertheless, what
is now found of them still excites astonishment, and inspires a sentiment of religious admiration
for a civilization that could create monuments so stupendous; impress on them a character of
so much grandeur; and give them a solidity which has prereserved the most important parts until
our days, through twenty-two centuries, and all the revolutions by which Persia has been devastated.
The pillars are covered with European names deeply cut in the stone. English are far the most
numerous. Very few, however, are of celebrated travelers. We observed, with satisfaction, those
of Sir John Malcolm and Mr. Morier, both of whom have so successfully treated Persian subjects."

       *       *       *       *       *

EMILE GIRARDIN states in his journal that he paid for the eleven volumes of Chateaubriand's
Posthumous Memoirs as they appeared, piecemeal, in his feuilleton, the sum of ninety-seven
thousand one hundred and eight francs. They occupied a hundred and ninety-two feuilletons,
and cost him thus more than a franc a line. Alfred de Broglie has made these memoirs the test
of a paper entitled "Memoirs de Chateaubriand, a Moral and Political Study," in the Revue des
Deux Mondes. It is a severe analysis of the book and the man. He concludes that Chateaubriand
was one of the most vainglorious, selfish and malignant of his tribe. He, indeed, betrayed
himself broadly, but surviving writers, who knew intimately his private life--such as St. Beuve--have
disclosed more of his habitual libertinism. The Radical journals, and some of the Legitimists,
turn to account the portraits left in these memoirs of Louis Philippe, Thiers, Guizot, and
other statesmen of the Orleans monarchy. They are effusions of personal and political spite.
Chateaubriand hated the whole Orleans dynasty, and has not spared the elder Bourbons.

       *       *       *       *       *

GUIZOT has been for thirty years in political life, many of them a minister, and was long at
the head of the government of Louis Philippe, but is now a poor man. Recently, on the marriage
of his two daughters with two brothers De Witt, the descendants of the great Hollander, he
was unable to give them a cent in the way of marriage portions. This fact proves the personal
integrity of the man more than a score of arguments. Not only has the native honesty of his
character forbidden him to take advantage of his eminent position to gain a fortune, but the
indomitable pride which is his leading characteristic, has never stooped to the attractions
of public plunder or the fruits of official speculation. Guizot is not up to the times, and
hence his downfall, but future historians will do justice alike to his great talents and the
uprightness of his intentions.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the best works yet produced on the History of Art, is by Schnaase, of Düsseldorf. The
first three volumes have been published and translated into French and English, and have met
with great success in both those languages. The fourth volume is just announced in Germany.
Artists and other competent persons at Düsseldorf who have seen the proof-sheets, speak in
the highest terms not only of its historical merits, but of the excellence of its criticisms.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fifth volume of the History of Spain, by Rousseau St. Hilaire, includes the period from
1336 to 1649. The professor has been employed ten years on his enterprise; he is lauded by
all the critics for his research, method, and style. We have recently spoken of this work at
some length in The International.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. LEVERRIER, the astronomer, has published a long and able argument in support of the free
and universal use of the electric telegraph. He has supplied a most instructive and interesting
exposition of the employment and utility of the invention, in all the countries in which it
has been established. The American and the several European tariffs of charge are appended.
He explains the different systems, scientific and practical, in detail, and gives the process
and proceeds. He observes that the practicability of laying the wires under ground along all
the great roads of France, which will protect them from accidents and mischief, will yield
immense advantage to the Government and to individuals. He appears to prefer Bain's Telegraph,
for communication, to any other, and minutely traces and develops its mechanism. A bill before
the French chambers, which he advocates, opens to the public the use of the telegraph, but
with various restrictions calculated to prevent revolutionary or seditious abuses; to prevent
illicit speculations in the public funds, and other bad purposes to which a free conveyance
might be applied. The director of the telegraph is to be empowered to refuse to transmit what
he shall deem repugnant to public order and good morals, and the government to suspend at will
all private correspondence, on one or many lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORKS OF REV. LEONARD WOODS, D.D., lately Professor of Theology in the Congregational Seminary
of Andover, are in course of publication, and the third and fourth volumes have just appeared,
completing the theological lectures of the venerable Professor, making in all one hundred and
twenty-eight. In these, the student is furnished with a complete body of divinity as generally
received by the orthodox denominations in New England, and has presented in a clear, condensed
manner, the matured results of a long life of thought and study devoted to these subjects.

The fourth volume is occupied with theological letters. The first 121 pages contain those to
Unitarians; next follows the Reply to Dr. Ware's Letters to Unitarians and Calvinists, and
Remarks on Dr. Ware's Answer, a series remarkable for courtesy and kindness toward opponents,
and clearness and faithfulness in the expression of what was regarded as truth. Following these,
are eight letters to Dr. Taylor of New Haven; An Examination of the Doctrine of Perfection,
as held by Mr. Mahan and others, and a letter to Mr. Mahan; A Dissertation on Miracles, and
the Course of Theological Study as pursued at the Seminary at Andover. One more volume will
complete the works of this long active and eminent divine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. ORVILLE DEWEY, D.D., we learn from the correspondence of the Christian Inquirer, is
living upon the farm where he was born, in Sheffield, Massachusetts, having, in the successive
improvements of many years, converted the original house into an irregular but most comfortable
and pleasant dwelling. The view from the back piazza is as fine as can be commanded anywhere
in Berkshire, and should the shifting channel of the Housatonic only be accommodating enough
to wind a little nearer the house, or even suffer some not impossible stoppage which would
convert the marshy meadow in front into a lake, nothing can be conceived of which could then
improve the situation. In this lovely retirement, Dr. Dewey endeavors to unite labor and study;
working with his own hands, with hoe and rake, in a way to surprise those who only know how
he can handle a pen. He is preparing, in a leisurely way, for a course of Lectures for the
Lowell Institute, upon a theme admirably suited to his previous studies, and in which it is
evident his whole mind and heart are bound up. We are glad to know that it is not until winter
after next that this work must be taken from the anvil.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. HOOKER, we learn, has again proceeded to a new and unexplored region in India, in the prosecution
of his important botanical labors. THE AUTHOR OF THE AMBER WITCH, the Pomeranian pastor, Meinhold,
has been condemned to three months' imprisonment, and a fine of one hundred thalers, besides
costs, for slander against another clergyman named Stosch, in a communication published in
the New Prussian Zeitung. The sentence was rendered more severe than usual in such cases by
the fact that Meinhold, who appears to possess more talent than temper, had previously been
condemned for the same offense against another party. The Amber Witch is one of the "curiosities
of literature", for in the last German edition the author is obliged to prove that it is entirely
a work of imagination, and not, as almost all the German critics believed it to be when it
appeared, the reprint of an old chronicle. It was, in fact, written as a trap for the disciples
of Strauss and his school, who had pronounced the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments
to be a collection, of legends, from historical research, assisted by "internal evidence".
Meinhold did not spare them when they fell into the snare, and made merry with the historical
knowledge and critical acumen that could not detect the contemporary romancer under the mask
of the chronicler of two centuries ago, while they decided so positively as to the authority
of the most ancient writings in the world. He has been in prison before.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE[1]", by Catharine Crowe, so well known as one of the cleverest of
the younger set of literary women in England, we have already mentioned as in the press of
Mr. Redfield; it is now published, and we commend it as one of the most entertaining and curious
works that has ever appeared on the "wonders of the invisible world". We quote from the judicious
critic of the Tribune the following paragraphs in regard to it:

[Footnote 1: The Night side of Nature; or, Ghosts and Ghost Seers. By Catherine Crowe. New
York. J.S. Redfield.]

"The author of this work is an accomplished German scholar. Without being a slave to the superstitious
love of marvels and prodigies, her mind evidently leans toward the twilight sphere, which lies
beyond the acknowledged boundaries of either faith or knowledge. She seems to be entirely free
from the sectarian spirit; she can look at facts impartially, without reference to their bearing
on favorite dogmas; nor does she claim such a full, precise and completely-rounded acquaintance
with the mysteries of the spiritual world, whether from intuition or revelation, as not to
believe that there may be more "things in heaven and earth than is dreamt of in our philosophy."
In this respect, it must be owned that she has not the advantage of certain religious journals
in this city, like the Christian Inquirer and The Independent, for instance--which have been
so fully initiated into the secrets of universal truth as to regard all inquiry into such subjects
either as too vulgar for a Christian gentleman, comme il faut, or as giving a "sanction to
the atheistic delusion that there may be a spiritual or supernatural agency" in manifestations
which are not accounted for by the New-England Primer. Mrs. Crowe, on the contrary, supposes
that there may be something worthy of philosophical investigation in those singular phenomena,
which, surpassing the limits of usual experience, have not yet found any adequate explanation.

"The phrase 'Night Side of Nature' is borrowed from the Germans, who derive it from the language
of astronomers, designating the side of a planet that is turned from the sun, as its night
side. The Germans draw a parallel between our vague and misty perceptions, when deprived of
the light of the sun, and the obscure and uncertain glimpses we obtain of the vailed department
of nature, of which, though comprising the solution of the most important questions, we are
in a state of almost total ignorance. In writing a book on these subjects, the author disclaims
the intention of enforcing any didactic opinions. She wishes only to suggest inquiry and stimulate
observation, in order to gain all possible light on our spiritual nature, both as it now exists
in the flesh and is to exist hereafter out of it.

"It is but justice to say, that the present volume is a successful realization of the purpose
thus announced. It presents as full a collection of facts on the subject as is probably to
be found in any work in the English language, furnishing materials for the formation of theoretic
views, and illustrating an obscure but most interesting chapter in the marvelous history of
human nature. It is written with perfect modesty, and freedom from pretense, doing credit to
the ability of the author as a narrator, as well as to her fairness and integrity as a reasoner."

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. MILNE EDWARDS presented at a recent meeting of the Academy of Sciences, in the name of
the Prince of Canino, (C. Bonaparte), the first part of the Prince's large work, Conspectus
Generum Avium. He has a new play forthcoming for the Princess's Theatre.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MARQUIS DE FOUDRAS has published Un Caprice de Grande Dame--clever, but as corrupt as her
other works.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. HERBERT'S NEW BOOKS.--The Southern Quarterly Review for July has the following notice of
"Frank Forester's Fish and Fishing in the United States and British Provinces," recently published
by Stringer & Townsend:

"There are few of our writers so variously endowed and accomplished as Mr. Herbert; of a mind
easily warmed and singularly enthusiastic, the natural bent of his talent inclines him to romance.
He has accordingly given us several stories abounding in stately scenes, and most impressive
portraiture. Well skilled in the use of the mother tongue, as in the broad fields of classical
literature, he has written essays of marked eloquence, and criticisms of excellent discrimination
and a keen and thorough insight. His contributions to our periodicals have been even more happy
than his fictions. With a fine imagination, he inherits a penchant and a capacity for poetry,
which has enabled him to throw off, without an effort, some of the most graceful fugitive effusions
which have been written in America. His accomplishments are as various as his talents. He can
paint a landscape as sweetly as he can describe it in words. He is a sportsman of eager impulse,
and relishes equally well the employments of the fisherman and hunter. He is a naturalist,
as well as a sportsman, and brings, to aid his practice and experience, a large knowledge,
from study, of the habits of birds, beasts and fishes. He roves land and sea in this pursuit,
forest and river, and turns, with equal ease and readiness, from a close examination of Greek
and Roman literature, to an emulous exercise of all the arts which have afforded renown to
the aboriginal hunter. The volume before us--one of many which he has given to this subject--is
one of singular interest to the lover of the rod and angle. It exhibits, on every page, a large
personal knowledge of the finny tribes in all the northern portions of our country, and well
deserves the examination of those who enjoy such pursuits and pastimes. The author's pencil
has happily illustrated the labors of his pen. His portraits of the several fishes of the United
States are exquisitely well done and truthful. It is our hope, in future pages, to furnish
an ample review of this, and other interesting volumes, of similar character, from the hand
of our author. We have drawn to them the attention of some rarely endowed persons of our own
region, who, like our author, unite the qualities of the writer and the sportsman; from whom
we look to learn in what respects the habits and characters of northern fish differ from our
own, and thus supply the deficiency of the work before us. The title of this work is rather
too general. The author's knowledge of the fish, and of fishing, in the United States, is almost
wholly confined to the regions north of the Chesapeake, and he falls into the error, quite
too common to the North, of supposing this region to be the whole country. Another each volume
as that before us will be necessary to do justice to the Southern States, whose possessions,
in the finny tribes of sea and river, are of a sort to shame into comparative insignificance
all the boasted treasures of the North. It would need but few pages in our review, from the
proper hands, to render this very apparent to the reader. Meanwhile, we exhort him to seek
the book of Mr. Herbert, as a work of much interest and authority, so far as it goes."

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUTNAM is preparing some elegantly embellished works for the holiday season. Among others,
an edition, in octavo, of Miss Fenimore Cooper's charming Rural Hours, embellished by twenty
finely-colored drawings of birds and flowers; The Picturesque Souvenir, or Letters of a Traveler
in Europe and America, by Bryant, embellished by a series of finely-executed engravings; and
The Alhambra, by Washington Irving, with designs by Darley, uniform with the splendid series
of Mr. Irving's Illustrated Works, some time in course of publication. We have also seen a
specimen copy of a superbly illustrated edition of The Pilgrim's Progress, printed on cream-colored
paper, as smooth as ivory; and the exquisite designs by Harvey, nearly three hundred in number,
are among the most effective ever attempted for the elucidation of this first of all allegories.
Professor Sweetser's new work, Menial Hygiene, or an Examination of the Intellect and Passions,
designed to illustrate their Influence on Health and the Duration of Life, will be published
in the course of the present month. Professor Church's Treatise on Integral and Differential
Calculus, a revised edition; The Companion, or After Dinner Table Talk, by Chelwood Evelyn,
with a fine portrait of Sydney Smith; The History of Propellers, and Steam Navigation, illustrated
by engravings: a manual, said to combine much valuable information on the subjects, derived
from the most authentic sources, by Mr. Robert MacFarlane, editor of the Scientific American;
and Mr. Ridner's Artist's Chromatic Hand-Book, or Manual of Colors, will also be speedily issued
by the same publisher. Mr. Putnam's own production, The World's Progress, or Dictionary of
Dates, containing a comprehensive manual of reference in facts, or epitome of historical and
general statistical knowledge, with a corrected chronology, &c., is expected to appear in a
few weeks. Mr. Theodore Irving's Conquest of Florida is also in progress.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is said that Meyerbeer has already completed a grand opera with the title of L'Africaine,
and is now engaged on a comic opera. This is probably nothing more than one of the trumpets
which this composer knows so well how to blow beforehand. Meyerbeer is not greater in music
than in the art of tickling public expectation and keeping the public aware of his existence.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Lorgnette has just appeared in a volume.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT DEATHS.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUGUSTUS WILLIAM NEANDER.

OF this most eminent Christian scholar of the nineteenth century, The Tribune furnishes the
following brief sketch. "The name of JOHANN AUGUST WILHELM NEANDER is familiar to a large number
of our countrymen, both on account of his important contributions to the science of theology,
and his personal intimacy with many of our eminent scholars, who have enjoyed the benefit of
his instructions, or who have made his acquaintance while pursuing their travels in Germany.
Although he had attained a greater age than might have been anticipated from his habits as
a confirmed invalid, being in his sixty-second year, his decease cannot be announced without
causing an emotion of surprise and regret to a numerous circle who recognized in him one of
the most faithful and conscientious Christian teachers of the present day.

"NEANDER, as it is well known, was descended from Jewish parents, by whom he was instructed
in the rudiments of religion, and at a subsequent period of life became a convert to the Christian
faith, by personal inquiry and experience. He was born at Göttingen, in 1789, but passed a
considerable portion of his youth at Hamburg, where he was initiated into the rudiments of
a classical education. After he had made a profession of Christianity, he continued his studies
for a short time at the Universities of Halle and Göttingen, returned to Hamburg, and finally
completed his University career at Heidelberg. The following year he was called to the University
of Berlin, as Professor of Theology, where he soon gave promise of the brilliant eminence which
he has since attained. His first publications were on special topics of ecclesiastical history,
including treatises on 'The Emperor Julian and his Age,' 'St. Bernard and his Age,' 'The Development
of the Principal Systems of the Gnostics,' 'St. Chrysostom and the Church in his Age,' and
'The Spirit of Tertullian,' with an 'Introduction to his Writings.' These treatises are remarkable
monuments of diligence, accuracy, profoundness of research and breadth of comprehension, showing
the same intellectual qualities which were afterward signally exhibited in the composition
of his masterly volumes on the history of the Christian Religion. His earliest production in
this department had for its object to present the most important facts in Church history, in
a form adapted to the great mass of readers, without aiming at scientific precision or completeness.
This attempt was eminently successful. The first volume of his great work entitled 'General
History of the Church and the Christian Religion,' was published in 1825, and it was not till
twenty years afterward that the work was brought to a close. The appearance of this work formed
a new epoch in ecclesiastical history. It at once betrayed the power of a bold and original
mind. Instead of consisting of a meager and arid collection of facts, without scientific order,
without any vital coherence or symmetry, and without reference to the cardinal elements of
Christian experience, the whole work, though singularly chaste and subdued in its tone, throbs
with the emotions of genuine life, depicting the influence of Christianity as a school for
the soul, and showing its radiant signatures of Divinity in its moral triumphs through centuries.

"His smaller work on the first development of Christianity in the Apostolic Age is marked by
the same spirited characteristics, while his 'Life of Jesus' is an able defense of the historical
verity of the sacred narrative against the ingenious and subtle suggestions of Strauss.

"The writings and theological position of NEANDER have been fully brought before the American
public by Profs. ROBINSON, TORREY, McCLINTOCK, SEARS, and other celebrated scholars who have
done much to diffuse a knowledge of the learned labors of Germany among intelligent thinkers
in our own country. NEANDER was free from the reproach which attaches to so many of his fellow
laborers, of covertly undermining the foundation of Christianity, under the pretense of placing
it on a philosophical basis. His opinions are considered strictly evangelical, though doubtless
embodied in a modified form. In regard to the extent and soundness of his learning, the clearness
of his perceptions, and the purity and nobleness of his character, there can be but one feeling
among those who are qualified to pronounce a judgment on the subject.

"NEANDER was never married. He was the victim of almost constant ill health. In many of his
personal habits he was peculiar and eccentric. With the wisdom of a sage, he combined the simplicity
of a child. Many amusing anecdotes are related of his oddities in the lecture-room, which will
serve to enliven the biography that will doubtless be prepared at an early date. We have received
no particulars concerning his death, which is said to have been announced by private letters
to friends in Boston."

       *       *       *       *       *

JACOB JONES, U.S.N.

COMMODORE JACOB JONES, of the United States Navy, died in Philadelphia on the 6th inst. He
was born in Smyrna, Kent county, Delaware, in the year 1770, and was therefore, eighty years
of age. He was of an eminently respectable family, and commenced life as a physician, having
studied the profession at the University of Pennsylvania. He afterward became clerk of the
Supreme Court of Delaware for his native county. When about twenty-nine years old he entered
the navy, and made his first cruises under Commodore Barry. He was a midshipman on board the
frigate United States, when she bore to France Chief Justice Ellsworth and General Davie, as
envoys extraordinary to the French Republic. He was next appointed to the Ganges as midshipman.
On the breaking out of the war with Tripoli, he was stationed on the frigate Philadelphia,
under Commodore Bainbridge. The disaster which befell that ship and her crew before Tripoli,
forms a solemn page in our naval history; atoned, however, by the brilliant achievements to
which it gave rise. Twenty months of severe captivity among a barbarous people, and in a noxious
climate, neither broke the spirit nor impaired the constitution of Jones. Blest by nature with
vigorous health and an invincible resolution, when relieved from bondage by the bravery of
his countrymen, he returned home full of life and ardor. He was soon after promoted to a lieutenancy.
He was now for some time employed on the Orleans station, where he conducted himself with his
usual judgment and propriety, and was a favorite in the polite circles of the Orleans and Mississippi
territories. He was shortly after appointed to the command of the brig Argus, stationed for
the protection of our commerce on the southern maritime frontier. In this situation he acted
with vigilance and fidelity, and though there were at one time insidious suggestions to the
contrary, it has appeared that he conformed to his instructions, promoted the public interest,
and gave entire satisfaction to the government. In 1811, he was transferred to the command
of the sloop-of-war Wasp, mounting eighteen twenty-four pound carronades, and dispatched, in
the spring of 1812, with communications to the courts of St. Cloud and St. James. Before he
returned, war had been declared against Great Britain. He refitted his ship with all possible
dispatch, and repaired to sea, but met with no other good fortune than the capture of an inconsiderable
prize. He next sailed from Philadelphia on the 13th of October, and on the 18th of the same
month encountered a heavy gale, during which the Wasp lost her jibboom and two seamen. On the
following night, the watch discovered five strange sail steering eastward. The Wasp hauled
to the windward and closely watched their movements until daylight next morning, when it was
found that they were six large merchant vessels under convoy of a sloop of war. The former
were well manned, two of them mounting sixteen guns each. Notwithstanding the apparent disparity
of force. Captain Jones determined to hazard an attack; and as the weather was boisterous,
and the swell of the sea unusually high, he ordered down top-gallant yards, closely reefed
the top-sails, and prepared for action. We cannot give a detail of this brilliant engagement,
which resulted in the capture of the Frolic. It was one of the most daring and determined actions
in our naval history. The force of the Frolic consisted of sixteen thirty-two pound carronades,
four twelve-pounders on the maindeck, and two twelve-pound carronades. Both vessels had more
men than was essential to their efficiency; but while there was an equality of strength in
the crews, there was an inequality in the number of guns and weight of metal--the Frolic having
four twelve-pounders more than the Wasp. The exact number of killed and wounded on board the
Frolic could not be ascertained with any degree of precision; but, from the admissions of the
British officers, it was supposed that their loss in killed was about thirty, including two
officers, and in wounded, between forty and fifty. The captain and every other officer on board
were more or less severely wounded. The Wasp sustained a loss of only five men killed, and
five wounded.

While erecting jurymasts on board the Frolic, soon after, a suspicious sail was seen to windward,
upon which Captain Jones directed Lieutenant Biddle to shape her course for Charleston, or
any other port of the United States, while the Wasp should continue upon her cruise. The sail
coming down rapidly, both vessels prepared for action, but it was soon discovered, to the mortification
of the victors in this well-fought action, that the new enemy was a seventy-four, which proved
to be the Poictiers, commanded by Admiral Beresford. Firing a shot over the Frolic, she passed
her, and soon overhauled the Wasp, which, in her crippled state, was unable to escape. Both
vessels were thus captured, and carried into Bermuda. After a few weeks, a cartel was proposed
by which the officers and crew of the Wasp were conveyed to New York. On the return of Captain
Jones to the United States, he was everywhere received with demonstrations of respect for the
skill and gallantry displayed in his combat with the enemy. The legislature of Delaware gave
him a vote of thanks, and a piece of plate. On the motion of James A. Bayard, of Delaware,
Congress appropriated twenty-five thousand dollars, as a compensation to the commander, his
officers, and crew, for the loss they had sustained by the recapture of the Frolic. They also
voted a gold medal to the Captain, and a silver medal to each of his commissioned officers.
As a farther evidence of the confidence of government, Captain Jones was ordered to the command
of the frigate Macedonian, recently captured from the British by Decatur. She was rapidly fitted
out under his direction, in the harbor of New York, and proposed for one of Decatur's squadron,
which was about to sail on another expedition. In May 1811, the squadron attempted to put to
sea, but, in sailing up Long Island Sound, encountered a large British force, which compelled
the United States vessels to retreat into New London. In this situation the enemy continued
an uninterrupted blockade during the war. Finding it impossible to avoid the vigilance of Sir
Thomas Hardy, who commanded the blockading fleet, the government ordered Captain Jones to proceed
with his officers and crew to Sackett's Harbor, and report to Commodore Chauncey, as commander
of the frigate Mohawk, on lake Ontario. There the Americans maintained an ascendency, and continued
to cruise until October, when the British squadron, under Sir James Yeo, left Kingston, with
a greatly superior force, which caused the United States squadron to return to Sackett's Harbor.
It seemed, indeed, that the contest now depended on the exertions of the ship carpenters. Two
line of battle ships were placed on the stocks, and were advancing rapidly to completion, when,
in February 1815, the news of peace arrived, with orders to suspend further operations on these
vessels. A few weeks after the peace was announced, Captain Jones with his officers and crew
was ordered to repair to the seaboard, and again to take command of the Macedonian, to form
part of the force against the Algerines, then depredating on our commerce in the Mediterranean.
As soon as the Algerian Regency was informed that war existed between the United States and
Great Britain, the Dey dispatched his cruisers to capture all American merchant vessels. To
punish these freebooters, nine or ten vessels were fitted out and placed under Decatur. This
armament sailed from New York in May, 1815, and when off Cadiz was informed that the Algerines
were along the southern coast of Spain. Two days after reaching the Mediterranean, the United
States squadron fell in with and captured the Algerine frigate Messuado, mounting forty-six
guns, and the next day captured a large brig of war, both of which were carried into the port
of Carthagena, in Spain. The American squadron then proceeded to the bay of Algiers, where
its sudden and unexpected appearance excited no slight surprise and alarm in the Regency. The
Dey reluctantly yielded to every demand to him; he restored the value of the property belonging
to American merchants which he had seized, released all the prisoners he had captured, and
relinquished forever all claims on the annual tribute which he had received. After having thus
terminated the war with Algiers, and formed an advantageous treaty, the squadron proceeded
to other Barbary capitals, and adjusted some minor difficulties, which, however, were of importance
to our merchants. After touching at several of the islands in the Mediterranean, at Naples,
and at Malaga, the entire force came back to the United States early in December. From this
period till his death, no event of much importance distinguished the career of Commodore Jones.
He was, however, almost constantly employed in various responsible positions, his appointment
to which evinced the confidence government placed in his talents and discretion. In 1821, he
took the command of a squadron, for the protection of our trade in the Mediterranean, in which
he continued for three years. On his return he was offered a seat in the Board of Navy Commissioners,
but, finding bureau duties irksome, he accepted, in 1826, the command of our navy in the Pacific,
where he also continued three years, Afterward he was placed in command of the Baltimore station,
where he remained, with the exception of a short interval, until transferred to the harbor
of New York. Since 1847, he had held the place of Governor of the United States Naval Asylum,
on the Schuylkill, near Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

JULIA BETTERTON GLOVER.

An actress who has been admired and respected by three generations of play-goers has quitted
the stage of life in the person of Mrs. Glover. The final exit was somewhat sudden, as it seemed
to the general public; but it was anticipated by her friends. A friendly biographer in the
Morning Chronicle explains the circumstances; first referring to the extraordinary manifestations
of public feeling which attended Mrs. Glover's last farewell, at Drury-Lane Theater, on Friday,
the 12th of July.

"In our capacity of spectators we did not then see occasion to mention what had otherwise come
to our knowledge--that the evidences of extreme suffering manifested by Mrs. Glover on that
evening--her inability to go through her part, except as a mere shadow of her former self,
and the substitution of an apologetic speech from Mr. Leigh Murray for the address which had
been written for her by a well-known and talented amateur of the drama--arose not merely from
the emotion natural on a farewell night, after more than half a century of active public service,
but also from extreme physical debility, the result of an attack of illness of a wasting character,
which had already confined that venerable lady to her bed for many days. In fact, it was only
the determination of Mrs. Glover herself not to disappoint the audience, who had been invited
and attracted for many weeks before, that overruled the remonstrances of her friends and family
against her appearing at all. She was then utterly unfit to appear on the stage in her professional
character, and the most serious alarm was felt lest there should be some sudden and fatal catastrophe.
The result of the struggle of feeling she then underwent, superadded as it was to the physical
causes which had undermined her strength, was, that Mrs. Glover sunk under the disease which
had been consuming her, and quitted this life on Monday night."

Mrs. Glover, born Julia Betterton, was daughter of an actor named Betterton, who held a good
position on the London stage toward the close of the last century. She is said to have been
a lineal descendant of the great actor of the same name. Her birthday was the 8th January,
1781. Brought up, as most of our great actors and actresses have been, "at the wings," she
was even in infancy sent on the stage in children's parts. She became attached to the company
of Tate Wilkinson, for whom she played, at York, the part of the Page in The Orphan; and she
also exercised her juvenile talents in the part of Tom Thumb, for the benefit of George Frederick
Cooke, who on the occasion doffed his tragic garb and appeared in the character of Glumdalcar.
Another character which she played successfully with Cooke was that of the little Duke of York
in Richard the Third; into which, it is recorded, she threw a degree of spirit and childish
roguishness that acted as a spur on the great tragedian himself, who never performed better
than when seconded by his childish associate. In 1796 she had attained such a position in the
preparatory school of the provincial circuits, chiefly at Bath, that she was engaged at Covent
Garden; in the first instance at £10 a week, and ultimately for five years at £15 a week, rising
to £20; terms then thought "somewhat extraordinary and even exorbitant". Miss Betterton first
appeared in London in October 1797, fifty-three years ago, as Elvira, in Hannah More's tragedy
of Percy. Her success was great; and in a short time she had taken such a hold of popular favor,
that when Mrs. Abington returned for a brief period to the stage, Miss Betterton held her ground
against the rival attraction, and even secured the admiration of Mrs. Abington herself. Her
subsequent engagements were at Drury-Lane and Covent-Garden alternately, till she made that
long engagement at the Haymarket, during which she has become best known to the present generation
of playgoers. Her more recent brief engagement with Mr. Anderson, at Drury-Lane, and her last
one with Mr. W. Farren, at the Strand Theater, whither she contributed so much to attract choice
audiences, are fresh in the memory of metropolitans. Looking back to Mrs. Glover's "long and
brilliant career upon the stage, we may pronounce her one of the most extraordinary women and
accomplished actresses that have ever graced the profession of the drama." Mrs. Glover had
a daughter, Phillis, a very clever young actress, at the Haymarket Theater, who has been dead
several years. Her two sons are distinguished, the one as a popular musical composer, and the
other as a clever tragedian--the latter with considerable talent, also, as an amateur painter.

A London correspondent of the Spirit of the Times gives an interesting account of the Glover
benefit, and the "last scenes."

       *       *       *       *       *

MADAME GAVAUDAN is dead. To many it will be necessary to explain that Madame Gavaudan was,
in her time, one of the most favorite singing-actresses and acting songstresses belonging to
the Opéra Comique of Paris; and that, after many years of popularity, she retired from the
stage in 1823.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL BERTHAND, Baron de Sivray, died early in July at Luc, in France, in the eighty-fourth
year of his age. He was an officer before the first revolution, and served through all the
wars of the Republic and the Empire.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT R. BAIRD, a son of the Rev. Dr. Baird, and a young man of amiable character and considerable
literary abilities, which had been illustrated for the most part, we believe, in translation,
was drowned in the North River at Yonkers on Tuesday evening, the 6th instant, about seven
o'clock. The deceased had gone into the water to bathe in company with several others, and
was carried by the rising tide into deep water, where, as he could swim but little, he sunk
to rise no more, before help could reach him. This premature and sudden death has overwhelmed
his parents and friends in the deepest distress. He was twenty-five years old.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEATH OF MR. S. JOSEPH, the sculptor, known by his statue of Wilberforce in Westminster
Abbey and his statue of Wilkie in the National Gallery, is mentioned in the English papers.
His busts exhibit a fine perception of character, and many a delicate grace in the modeling.
Mr. Joseph was long a resident in Edinburgh. He modeled a bust of Sir Walter Scott about the
same time that Chantrey modeled his--that bust which best preserves to us the features and
character of the great novelist.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES WRIGHT, author of the Philosophy of Elocution and other works chiefly of a religious
character, died at Brighton, England, on the 9th of July, aged 68.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR THOMAS WILDE, who has just been promoted to the Woolsack, as Baron Truro, we learn from
the Illustrated News, was born in 1782. After practicing as an attorney, he was called to the
bar by the Honorable Society of the Inner Temple, the 7th February, 1817. He joined the Western
Circuit, and soon rose into considerable practice. His knowledge of the law, combined with
his great eloquence, made him one of the most successful advocates of his time. He was for
many years the confidential and legal adviser of the late Alderman Sir Matthew Wood, and his
connection with that gentleman caused him to be engaged as one of the senior counsel for the
Queen on the celebrated trial of Queen Caroline. Though surrounded by rivals of the highest
eminence and the brightest fame, Wilde always stood among the foremost, and obtained briefs
in some of the greatest causes ever tried. For instance, he was engaged on the winning side
in the famous action of Small v. Atwood, in which his fees are said to have amounted to something
enormous. In 1824 he became a sergeant-at-law; and he was appointed King's Sergeant in 1827,
and Solicitor-General in 1839, when he received the honor of knighthood. In 1841 he first became
Attorney-General; and after a second time holding that office, he succeeded the late Sir Nicholas
Conyngham Tindal, as Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas. His recent appointment as Lord
Chancellor places him at the very summit of his profession.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM THE LONDON LADIES' COMPANION.]

THE MORNING SONG.

BY BARRY CORNWALL.

A new "English Song," by Barry Cornwall, is now--more's the pity--a too rare event in the musical
year. We are at once doing our readers a pleasure, and owning a welcome kindness, in publishing,
by the author's permission, these words, set by M. Benedict, and sung by Madame Sontag.

  The world is waking into light;
    The dark and sullen night hath flown:
  Life lives and re-assumes its might,
    And nature smiles upon her throne.
      And the Lark,
      Hark!
    She gives welcome to the day,
    In a merry, merry, lay,
    Tra la!--lira, lira, lira, la!

  Soft sounds are sailing through the air;
    Sweet sounds are springing from the stream;
  And fairest things, where all is fair,
    Join gently in the grateful theme.
      And the Lark, &c., &c.

  The morn, the morn is in the skies;
    The reaper singeth from the corn;
  The shepherd on the hills replies;
    And all things now salute the morn,
      Even the Lark, &c., &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM ELIZA COOK'S JOURNAL.]

A LESSON.

If society ever be wholly corrupted, it will be by the idea that it is already so. Some cynics
believe in virtue, sincerity, and happiness, only as traditions of the past, and by ridicule
seek to propagate the notion. This vain and pedantic philosophy would turn all hearts to stone,
and arm every man with suspicion against all others, declaiming against the romance of life,
as empty sentimentalism; against the belief in goodness, as youth's sanguine folly; and the
hope of pure happiness, as a fanciful dream, created by a young imagination, to be dissipated
by the teaching of a few years' struggle with the world.

If this be wisdom, I am no philosopher, and I never wish to be one; for sooner would I float
upon the giddy current of fancy, to fall among quicksands at last, than travel through a dull
and dreary world, without confidence in my companions. That we may be happy, that we may find
sincere friends, that we may meet the good, and enjoy the beautiful on earth, is a creed that
will find believers in all hearts unsoured by their own asceticism. Virtue will sanctify every
fireside where we invite her to dwell, and if the clouds of misfortune darken and deform the
whole period of our existence, it is a darkness that emanates from ourselves, and a deformity
created by us to our own unhappiness.

Yet this is not relating the little story which is the object of my observations. The axiom
which I wish to lay down, to maintain, and to prove correct, is, that married life may be with
most people, should be with all, and is with many, a state of happiness. The reader may smile
at my boldness, but the history of the personages I shall introduce to walk their hour on this
my little stage, will justify my adopting the maxim.

M. Pierre Lavalles, owner of a vineyard, near a certain village in the south of France, wooed
and wedded Mdlle. Julie Gouchard. Exactly where they dwelt, and all the precise circumstances
of their position, I do not mean to indicate, and if I might offer a hint to my contemporaries,
it would be a gentle suggestion that they occupy too much time, paper, and language in geographical
and genealogical details, very wearisome, because very unnecessary. Monsieur Pierre Lavalles
then lived in a pretty house, near a certain village in a vine-growing district of the south
of France, and when he took his young wife home, he showed her great stores of excellent things,
calculated well for the comfortable subsistence of a youthful and worthy couple. Flowers and
blossoming trees shed odor near the lattice windows, verdure soft and green was spread over
the garden, and the mantling vine "laid forth the purple grape," over a rich and sunny plantation
near at hand. The house was small, but neat, and well furnished in the style of the province,
and Monsieur and Madame Pierre Lavalles lived very happily in plenty and content.

Here I leave them, and introduce the reader to Monsieur Antoine Perron, notary in the neighboring
village.

Let me linger over a notice of this individual. He was a good man, and what is more curious
an honest lawyer. Indeed, in spite of my happy theory, I may say that such a good man, and
such a good lawyer you could seldom meet. All the village knew him; he mixed up in every one's
quarrels; not, as is usually the case, to make confusion worse confounded by a double-tongued
hypocrisy, but to produce conciliation; he mingled in every one's affairs, not to pick up profit
for himself, but to prevent the villagers from running into losses and imprudent speculations;
he talked much, yet, it was not slander, but advice; he thought more, yet it was not over mischief,
but on schemes of good; he was known to everybody, yet none that knew him respected him the
less on that account. He was a little, spare, merry-looking man, that sought to appear grave
when he was most inclined to merriment, and if he considered himself a perfect genius in his
plans for effecting good, his vanity may be pardoned, because of the food it fed on.

M. Antoine Perron considered himself very ingenious, and if he had a fault, it was his love
of originality. He never liked to perform any action in a common way, and never chuckled so
gaily to himself, as when he had achieved some charitable end by some extraordinary means.

It was seven months after the marriage of M. Pierre Lavalles, M. Antoine Perron sat in his
little parlor, and gazed with a glad eye upon the cheerful fire, for the short winter was just
terminating. Leaning forward in his chair, he shaded his face with his hands, and steadily
perused the figures among the coals with a most pleasant countenance. The room was small, neat,
and comfortable, for the notary prospered, in his humble way and seeking only comfort found
it, and was content.

Suddenly a violent knocking at the door aroused him from his reverie, and he heard his old
servant rushing to open it. In a moment, two persons were ushered into the room, and the notary
leaped to his feet in astonishment at the extraordinary scene before him. Had a thunderbolt
cloven the roof, and passed through his hearth to its grave in the center of the globe, or
had the trees that nodded their naked branches without the window commenced a dance upon the
snowy ground, he had not been more surprised.

Monsieur Pierre Lavalles, and Madame Pierre Lavalles stood just inside the doorway. Never had
Monsieur Perron seen them before, as he saw them now. Like turtle-doves, with smiling eyes,
and affectionate caress, they had lived in happy harmony during the seven months of their married
life, and motherly dames, when they gave their daughters away, bade them prosper and be pleasant
in their union, as they had been joyous in their love, pleasant and joyous, as neighbor Lavalles
and his wife.

Now, Pierre stood red and angry, with his right arm extended, gesticulating toward his wife.
Julie stood red and angry, with her left arm extended, gesticulating toward her husband. Eyes,
that had only radiated smiles, flashed with fierce passion, as the turtle doves remained near
the door, each endeavoring to anticipate the other in some address to the worthy notary. He,
aghast and perplexed, waited for the denouement.

"Madame," said Monsieur Pierre Lavalles, "allow me to speak."

"Monsieur," said Madame Pierre Lavalles. "I insist--"

"But, Madame, it is my--"

"But, Monsieur, I say I will."

"And yet I will."

"But no--"

"Madame, I shall."

"Then be careful what you do; M. Perron, M. Lavalles is mad."

Then the lady, having thus emphatically declared herself, resigned the right of speech to her
husband, who began to jerk out in disconnected phrases a statement of his case. Seven days
ago he had annoyed his wife by some incautious word; she had annoyed him by an incautious answer;
he had made matters worse by an aggravating retort; and she had widened the breach by a bitter
reply. This little squall was succeeded by a cool calm, and that by a sullen silence, until
some sudden friction kindled a new flame, and finally, after successive storms and lulls, there
burst forth a furious conflagration, and in the violent collision of their anger, the seven-months'
married pair vowed to separate, and with that resolve had visited M. Perron. Reconciliation
they declared was beyond possibility, and they requested the notary at once to draw up the
documents that should consign them to different homes, to subsist on a divided patrimony, in
loveless and unhappy marriage. Each told a tale in turn, and the manner of relation added fuel
to the anger of the other. The man and the woman seemed to have leaped out of their nature
in the accession of their passion. Pity that a quarrel should ever dilate thus, from a cloud
the size of a man's hand to a thunder-storm that covers heaven with its black and dismal canopy.

Neither would listen to reason. The duty of the notary was to prepare the process by which
they were to be separated.

"Monsieur," he said, "I will arrange the affair for you; but you are acquainted with the laws
of France in this respect!"

"I know nothing of the law," replied M. Pierre Lavalles.

"Madame," said the notary, "your wish shall be complied with. But you know what the law says
on this head?"

"I never read a law book," sharply ejaculated Madame Pierre Lavalles.

"Then," resumed the notary, "the case is this. You must return to your house, and I will proceed
to settle the proceedings with the Judicatory Court at Paris. They are very strict. You must
furnish me with all the documents relative to property."

"I have them here," put in the husband, by way of parenthesis.

"And the whole affair including correspondence, preparations of instruments, &c., will be settled
in less than three months."

"Three months?"

"Three months. Yes, in less than three months."

"Then I will live with a friend at the village, until it is finished," said Madame Lavalles,
in a decided, peremptory tone, usual with ladies when they are a little ashamed of themselves,
or any one else.

"Oh, very well, Madame,--oh, very well."

"Not at all well, Madame; not at all well, Monsieur," said the notary, with a solid, immovable
voice. "You must live as usual. If you doubt my knowledge of the law, you will, by reading
through these seven books, find that this fact is specified."

But the irritated couple were not disposed to undertake the somniferous task, and shortly left
the house, as they had come, walking the same way, but at a distance of a yard or so one from
another.

Two months and twenty-seven days had passed, when the notary issued from his house, and proceeded
toward the house where Monsieur and Madame Lavalles dwelt. Since the fatal night I have described,
he had not encountered them, and he now, with a bland face and confident head, approached the
dwelling.

It was a pretty place. Passing through the sunny vineyards where the spring was just calling
out the leaves, and the young shoots in their tints of tender green were sprouting in the warmth
of a pleasant day; the notary entered a garden. Here the flowers, in infant bloom, had prepared
the earth for the coming season, for summer in her gay attire was tripping from the south,
and as she passed, nature wove garlands to adorn her head, and wreathe about her arms. Early
blossoms lent sweetness to the breath of the idle winds that loitered in this delightful spot,
and the fair young primrose was sown over the parterres, with other flowers of spring, the
most delicate and softly fragrant, that come out to live their hour in modesty and safety,
while the earth affords them room, and before the bright and gaudy bloom of a riper season
eclipses their beauty, bidding them, blushing, close their petals.

Early roses twined on either side the porch, and as the notary entered, nothing struck him
more than the neat and cheerful appearance of the place. A demoiselle ushered him into a little
parlor, where Monsieur Pierre Lavalles, and Madame Julie Lavalles, had just sat down to partake
breakfast.

A small table was drawn up close to the open window, and vernal breezes found welcome in the
chamber. A snowy cloth hung down to the well-polished floor, and tall white cups were placed
upon it to rival it in purity and grace. Cakes of bread, such bread as is only had in France,
with delicious butter, and rich brown foaming coffee frothed with cream, were spread before
them, and a basket of fresh spring flowers, sparkling with dew and beautifully odorous, scented
the whole chamber with a delicate perfume.

The husband and wife sat side by side, with pleasant looks, and so engaged in light and amiable
conversation, that they hardly noticed the entrance of the notary. The storm had vanished and
left no trace. Flushes of anger, flashes of spite, quick breathings, and disordered looks--all
these had passed, and now smiles, and eyes lit only with kindness, and bosoms beating with
calm content, and looks all full of love, were alone to be observed.

When M. Antoine Perron entered, they started; at length, and then recollecting his mission,
blushed crimson, looked one at another, and then at the ground, awaiting his address.

"Monsieur, and Madame," said the notary, "according to your desires I come with all the documents
necessary for your separation, and the division of your property. They only want your signature,
and we will call in your servant to be witness."

"Stay," exclaimed Madame Julie, laughing at her husband, "Pierre, explain to M. Perron."

"Ah, Monsieur Perron," said Monsieur Antoine Lavalles, "we had forgotten that, and hoped you
had also. Say not a word of it to any one."

"No, not a word," said Madame Julie. "We never quarreled but once since we married, and we
never mean to quarrel again."

"Not unless you provoke it," said Monsieur Lavalles, audaciously. "But M. Perron, you will
take breakfast with us?"

"You're a wicked wretch," said Madame Julie, tapping him on the cheek. "After breakfast, M.
Perron, we will sign the papers."

"After breakfast," said M. Pierre Lavalles, "we will burn them."

"We shall see," said the notary. "Sign them or burn them. Madame Julie Lavalles, your coffee
is charming."

       *       *       *       *       *

After seven months' harmony, do not let seven days' quarrel destroy the happiness of home.
Do not follow the directions of a person in a passion. Allow him to cool and consider his purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM DICKENS'S HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]

DUST;

OR UGLINESS REDEEMED. He was in ecstacies at the prize. It was on Merries & Farquhar, in 1847.
We're only your good angels, like--only poor cinder-sifters--don'tee be afeard."

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]

AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY.

In one of the dirtiest and most gloomy streets leading to the Rue St. Denis, in Paris, there
stands a tall and ancient house, the lower portion of which is a large mercer's shop. This
establishment is held to be one of the very best in the neighborhood, and has for many years
belonged to an individual on whom we will bestow the name of Ramin.

About ten years ago, Monsieur Ramin was a jovial red-faced man of forty, who joked his customers
into purchasing his goods, flattered the pretty grisettes outrageously, and now and then gave
them a Sunday treat at the barrier, as the cheapest way of securing their custom. Some people
thought him a careless, good-natured fellow, and wondered how, with his off-hand ways, he contrived
to make money so fast, but those who knew him well saw that he was one of those who "never
lost an opportunity." Others declared that Monsieur Ramin's own definition of his character
was, that he was a "bon enfant," and that "it was all luck." He shrugged his shoulders and
laughed when people hinted at his deep scheming in making, and his skill in taking advantage
of Excellent Opportunities.

He was sitting in his gloomy parlor one fine morning in spring, breakfasting from a dark liquid
honored with the name of onion soup, glancing at the newspaper, and keeping a vigilant look
on the shop through the open door, when his old servant Catharine suddenly observed:

"I suppose you know Monsieur Bonelle has come to live in the vacant apartment on the fourth floor?"

"What!" exclaimed Monsieur Ramin, in a loud key.

Catharine repeated her statement, to which her master listened in total silence.

"Well!" he said at length, in his most careless tones, "what about the old fellow?" and he
once more resumed his triple occupation of reading, eating, and watching.

"Why," continued Catharine, "they say he is nearly dying, and that his housekeeper, Marguerite,
vowed he could never get up stairs alive. It took two men to carry him up; and when he was
at length quiet in bed, Marguerite went down to the porter's lodge, and sobbed there a whole
hour, saying her poor master had the gout, the rheumatics, and a bad asthma; that though he
had been got up stairs, he would never come down again alive; that if she could only get him
to confess his sins and make his will, she would not mind it so much; but that when she spoke
of the lawyer or the priest, he blasphemed at her like a heathen, and declared that he would
live to bury her and everybody else."

Monsieur Ramin heard Catharine with great attention, forgot to finish his soup, and remained
for five minutes in profound rumination, without so much as perceiving two customers who had
entered the shop and were waiting to be served. When aroused, he was heard to exclaim:

"What an excellent opportunity!"

Monsieur Bonelle had been Ramin's predecessor. The succession of the latter to the shop was
a mystery. No one ever knew how it was that this young and poor assistant managed to replace
his patron. Some said that he had detected Monsieur Bonelle in frauds which he threatened to
expose unless the business were given up to him as the price of his silence; others averred,
that having drawn a prize in the lottery, he had resolved to set up a fierce opposition over
the way, and that Monsieur Bonelle, having obtained a hint of his intentions, had thought it
most prudent to accept the trifling sum his clerk offered, and avoid a ruinous competition.
Some charitable souls--moved no doubt by Monsieur Bonelle's misfortune--endeavored to console
and pump him; but all they could get from him was the bitter exclamation, "To think I should
have been duped by him!" For Ramin had the art, though then a mere youth, to pass himself off
on his master as an innocent provincial lad. Those who sought an explanation from the new mercer
were still more unsuccessful. "My good old master," he said in his jovial way, "felt in need
of repose, and so I obligingly relieved him of all business and botheration."

Years passed away; Ramin prospered, and neither thought nor heard of his "good old master."
The house, of which he tenanted the lower portion, was offered for sale. He had long coveted
it, and had almost concluded an agreement with the actual owner, when Monsieur Bonelle unexpectedly
stepped in at the eleventh hour, and by offering a trifle more secured the bargain. The rage
and mortification of Monsieur Ramin were extreme. He could not understand how Bonelle, whom
he had thought ruined, had scraped up so large a sum; his lease was out, and he now felt himself
at the mercy of the man he had so much injured. But either Monsieur Bonelle was free from vindictive
feelings, or those feelings did not blind him to the expediency of keeping a good tenant: for
though he raised the rent until Monsieur Ramin groaned inwardly, he did not refuse to renew
the lease. They had met at that period, but never since.

"Well, Catharine," observed Monsieur Ramin to his old servant on the following morning, "How
is that good Monsieur Bonelle getting on?"

"I dare say you feel very uneasy about him," she replied with a sneer.

Monsieur Ramin looked up and frowned.

"Catharine," said he, dryly, "you will have the goodness, in the first place, not to make impertinent
remarks: in the second place, you will oblige me by going up stairs to inquire after the health
of Monsieur Bonelle, and say that I sent you."

Catharine grumbled, and obeyed. Her master was in the shop, when she returned in a few minutes,
and delivered with evident satisfaction the following gracious message:

"Monsieur Bonelle desires his compliments to you, and declines to state how he is; he will
also thank you to attend to your own shop, and not to trouble yourself about his health."

"How does he look?" asked Monsieur Ramin, with perfect composure.

"I caught a glimpse of him, and he appears to me to be rapidly preparing for the good offices
of the undertaker."

Monsieur Ramin smiled, rubbed his hands, and joked merrily with a dark-eyed grisette, who was
cheapening some ribbon for her cap. That girl made an excellent bargain that day.

Toward dusk the mercer left the shop to the care of his attendant, and softly stole up to the
fourth story. In answer to his gentle ring, a little old woman opened the door, and giving
him a rapid look, said briefly:

"Monsieur is inexorable: he won't see any doctor whatever."

She was going to shut the door in his face, when Ramin quickly interposed, under his breath,
with "I am not a doctor."

She looked at him from head to foot.

"Are you a lawyer?"

"Nothing of the sort, my good lady."

"Well then, are you a priest?"

"I may almost say, quite the reverse."

"Indeed, you must go away, Master sees no one."

Once more she would have shut the door, but Ramin prevented her.

"My good lady," said he in his most insinuating tones, "it is true I am neither a lawyer, a
doctor, nor a priest. I am an old friend, a very old friend of your excellent master; I have
come to see good Monsieur Bonelle in his present affliction."

Marguerite did not answer, but allowed him to enter, and closed the door behind him. He was
going to pass from the narrow and gloomy ante-chamber into an inner room--whence now proceeded
a sound of loud coughing--when the old woman laid her hand on his arm, and raising herself
on tip-toe, to reach his ear, whispered:

"For Heaven's sake, sir, since you are his friend, do talk to him: do tell him to make his
will, and hint something about a soul to be saved, and all that sort of thing: do, sir!"

Monsieur Ramin nodded and winked in a way that said "I will." He proved however his prudence
by not speaking aloud; for a voice from within sharply exclaimed,

"Marguerite, you are talking to some one! Marguerite! I will see neither doctor nor lawyer;
and if any meddling priest dare--"

"It is only an old friend, sir;" interrupted Marguerite, opening the inner door.

Her master, on looking up, perceived the red face of Monsieur Ramin peeping over the old woman's
shoulder, and irefully cried out:

"How dare you bring that fellow here? And you, sir, how dare you come?"

"My good old friend, there are feelings," said Ramin, spreading his fingers over the left pocket
of his waistcoat--"there are feelings," he repeated, "that cannot be subdued. One such feeling
brought me here. The fact is, I am a good-natured easy fellow, and I never bear malice. I never
forget an old friend, but love to forget old differences when I find one party in affliction."

He drew a chair forward as he spoke, and composedly seated himself opposite to his late master.

Monsieur Bonelle was a thin old man, with a pale sharp face and keen features. At first he
eyed his visitor from the depths of his vast arm-chair; but, as if not, satisfied with this
distant view, he bent forward, and laying both hands on his thin knees, he looked up into Ramin's
face with a fixed and piercing gaze. He had not, however, the power of disconcerting his guest.

"What did you come here for?" he at length asked.

"Merely to have the extreme satisfaction of seeing how you are, my good old friend. Nothing more."

"Well, look at me--and then go."

Nothing could be so discouraging: but this was an Excellent Opportunity, and when Monsieur
Ramin had an excellent opportunity in view, his pertinacity was invincible. Being now resolved
to stay, it was not in Monsieur Bonelle's power to banish him. At the same time he had tact
enough to render his presence agreeable. He knew that his coarse and boisterous wit had often
delighted Monsieur Bonelle of old, and he now exerted himself so successfully as to betray
the old man two or three times into hearty laughter. "Ramin," said he at length, laying his
thin hand on the arm of his guest, and peering with his keen glance into the mercer's purple
face, "you are a funny fellow, but I know you; you cannot make me believe you have called just
to see how I am, and to amuse me. Come, be candid for once; what do you want?"

Ramin threw himself back in his chair, and laughed blandly, as much as to say, "Can you suspect
me?"

"I have no shop now out of which you can wheedle me," continued the old man; "and surely you
are not such a fool as to come to me for money."

"Money!" repeated the draper, as if his host had mentioned something he never dreamt of. "Oh, no!"

Ramin saw it would not do to broach the subject he had really come about, too abruptly, now
that suspicion seemed so wide awake--the opportunity had not arrived.

"There is something up, Ramin, I know; I see it in the twinkle of your eye; but you can't deceive
me again."

"Deceive you?" said the jolly schemer, shaking his head reverentially. "Deceive a man of your
penetration and depth? Impossible! The bare supposition is flattery. My dear friend," he continued,
soothingly, "I did not dream of such a thing. The fact is, Bonelle, though they call me a jovial,
careless, rattling dog, I have a conscience; and, somehow, I have never felt quite easy about
the way in which I became your successor down-stairs. It was rather sharp practice, I admit."

Bonelle seemed to relent.

"Now for it," said the Opportunity-hunter to himself--"By-the-bye," (speaking aloud,) "this
house must be a great trouble to you in your present weak state? Two of your lodgers have lately
gone away without paying--a great nuisance, especially to an invalid."

"I tell you I'm as sound as a colt."

"At all events, the whole concern must be a great bother to you. If I were you, I would sell
the house."

"And if I were you," returned the landlord, dryly, "I would buy it--"

"Precisely," interrupted the tenant, eagerly.

"That is, if you could get it. Pooh! I knew you were after something. Will you give eighty
thousand francs for it?" abruptly asked Monsieur Bonelle.

"Eighty thousand francs!" echoed Ramin. "Do you take me for Louis Philippe or the Bank of France!"

"Then we'll say no more about it--are you not afraid of leaving your shop so long?"

Ramin returned to the charge, heedless of the hint to depart. "The fact is, my good old friend,
ready money is not my strong point just now. But if you wish very much to be relieved of the
concern, what say you to a life annuity? I could manage that."

Monsieur Bonelle gave a short, dry, church-yard cough, and looked as if his life were not worth
an hour's purchase. "You think yourself immensely clever, I dare say," he said. "They have
persuaded you that I am dying. Stuff! I shall bury you yet."

The mercer glanced at the thin fragile frame, and exclaimed to himself, "Deluded old gentleman!"
"My dear Bonelle," he continued, aloud, "I know well the strength of your admirable constitution:
but allow me to observe that you neglect yourself too much. Now, suppose a good sensible doctor--"

"Will you pay him?" interrogated Bonelle, sharply.

"Most willingly," replied Ramin, with an eagerness that made the old man smile. "As to the
annuity, since the subject annoys you, we will talk of it some other time."

"After you have heard the doctor's report," sneered Bonelle.

The mercer gave him a stealthy glance, which the old man's keen look immediately detected.
Neither could repress a smile: these good souls understood one another perfectly, and Ramin
saw that this was not the Excellent Opportunity he desired, and departed.

The next day Ramin sent a neighboring medical man, and heard it was his opinion that if Bonelle
held on for three months longer, it would be a miracle. Delightful news!

Several days elapsed, and although very anxious, Ramin assumed a careless air, and did not
call upon his landlord, or take any notice of him. At the end of the week old Marguerite entered
the shop to make a trifling purchase.

"And how are we getting on up-stairs?" negligently asked Monsieur Ramin.

"Worse and worse, my good sir," she sighed. "We have rheumatic pains which often make us use
expressions the reverse of Christian-like, and yet nothing can induce us to see either the
lawyer or the priest; the gout is getting nearer to our stomach every day, and still we go
on talking about the strength of our constitution. Oh, sir, if you have any influence with
us, do, pray do, tell us how wicked it is to die without making one's will or confessing one's
sins."

"I shall go up this very evening," ambiguously replied Monsieur Ramin.

He kept his promise, and found Monsieur Bonelle in bed, groaning with pain, and in the worst
of tempers.

"What poisoning doctor did you send?" he asked, with an ireful glance; "I want no doctor, I
am not ill; I will not follow his prescription; he forbade me to eat; I will eat."

"He is a very clever man," said the visitor. "He told me that never in the whole course of
his experience has he met with what he called so much 'resisting power' as exists in your frame.
He asked me if you were not of a long-lived race."

"That is as people may judge," replied Monsieur Bonelle. "All I can say is, that my grandfather
died at ninety, and my father at eighty-six."

"The doctor owned that you had a wonderfully strong constitution."

"Who said I hadn't?" exclaimed the invalid feebly.

"You may rely on it, you would preserve your health better if you had not the trouble of these
vexatious lodgers. Have you thought about the life annuity?" said Ramin as carelessly as he
could, considering how near the matter was to his hopes and wishes.

"Why, I have scruples," returned Bonelle, coughing. "I do not wish to take you in. My longevity
would be the ruin of you."

"To meet that difficulty," quickly replied the mercer, "we can reduce the interest."

"But I must have high interest," placidly returned Monsieur Bonelle.

Ramin, on hearing this, burst into a loud fit of laughter, called Monsieur Bonelle a sly old
fox, gave him a poke in the ribs, which made the old man cough for five minutes, and then proposed
that they should talk it over some other day. The mercer left Monsieur Bonelle in the act of
protesting that he felt as strong as a man of forty.

Monsieur Ramin felt in no hurry to conclude the proposed agreement. "The later one begins to
pay, the better," he said, as he descended the stairs.

Days passed on, and the negotiation made no way. It struck the observant tradesman that all
was not right. Old Marguerite several times refused to admit him, declaring her master was
asleep: there was something mysterious and forbidding in her manner that seemed to Monsieur
Ramin very ominous. At length a sudden thought occurred to him: the housekeeper--wishing to
become her master's heir--had heard his scheme and opposed it. On the very day that he arrived
at this conclusion, he met a lawyer, with whom he had formerly had some transactions, coming
down the staircase. The sight sent a chill through the mercer's commercial heart, and a presentiment--one
of those presentiments that seldom deceive--told him it was too late. He had, however, the
fortitude to abstain from visiting Monsieur Bonelle until evening came; when he went up, resolved
to see him in spite of all Marguerite might urge. The door was half-open, and the old housekeeper
stood talking on the landing to a middle-aged man in a dark cassock.

"It is all over! The old witch has got the priests at him," thought Ramin, inwardly groaning
at his own folly in allowing himself to be forestalled.

"You cannot see Monsieur to-night," sharply said Marguerite, as he attempted to pass.

"Alas! is my excellent friend so very ill?" asked Ramin, in a mournful tone.

"Sir," eagerly said the clergyman, catching him by the button of his coat, "if you are indeed
the friend of that unhappy man, do seek to bring him into a more suitable frame of mind. I
have seen many dying men, but never so much obstinacy, never such infatuated belief in the
duration of life."

"Then you think he really is dying," asked Ramin; and, in spite of the melancholy accent he
endeavored to assume, there was something so peculiar in his tone, that the priest looked at
him very fixedly as he slowly replied,

"Yes, air, I think he is."

"Ah!" was all Monsieur Ramin said; and as the clergyman had now relaxed his hold of the button,
Ramin passed in spite of the remonstrances of Marguerite, who rushed after the priest. He found
Monsieur Bonelle in bed and in a towering rage.

"Oh! Ramin, my friend," he groaned, "never take a housekeeper, and never let her know you have
any property. They are harpies, Ramin,--harpies! such a day as I have had; first, the lawyer,
who comes to write down 'my last testamentary dispositions,' as he calls them; then the priest,
who gently hints that I am a dying man. Oh, what a day!"

"And did you make your will, my excellent friend?" softly asked Monsieur Ramin, with a keen look.

"Make my will?" indignantly exclaimed the old man; "make my will? what do you mean, sir? do
you mean to say I am dying?"

"Heaven forbid!" piously ejaculated Ramin.

"Then why do you ask me if I had been making my will?" angrily resumed the old man. He then
began to be extremely abusive.

When money was in the way, Monsieur Ramin, though otherwise of a violent temper, had the meekness
of a lamb. He bore the treatment of his host with the meekest patience, and having first locked
the door so as to make sure that Marguerite would not interrupt them, he watched Monsieur Bonelle
attentively, and satisfied himself that the Excellent Opportunity he had been ardently longing
for had arrived: "He is going fast," he thought; "and unless I settle the agreement to-night,
and get it drawn up and signed to-morrow, it will be too late."

"My dear friend," he at length said aloud, on perceiving that the old gentleman had fairly
exhausted himself and was lying panting on his back, "you are indeed a lamentable instance
of the lengths to which the greedy lust of lucre will carry our poor human nature. It is really
distressing to see Marguerite, a faithful, attached servant, suddenly converted into a tormenting
harpy by the prospect of a legacy! Lawyers and priests flock around you like birds of prey,
drawn hither by the scent of gold! Oh, the miseries of having delicate health combined with
a sound constitution and large property!"

"Ramin," groaned the old man, looking inquiringly into his visitor's face, "you are again going
to talk to me about that annuity--I know you are!"

"My excellent friend, it is merely to deliver you from a painful position."

"I am sure, Ramin, you think in your soul I am dying," whimpered Monsieur Bonelle.

"Absurd, my dear sir. Dying? I will prove to you that you have never been in better health.
In the first place you feel no pain."

"Excepting from rheumatism," groaned Monsieur Bonelle.

"Rheumatism! who ever died of rheumatism? and if that be all--"

"No, it is not all," interrupted the old man with great irritability; "what would you say to
the gout getting higher and higher up every day?"

"The gout is rather disagreeable, but if there is nothing else--"

"Yes, there is something else," sharply said Monsieur Bonelle. "There is an asthma that will
scarcely let me breathe, and a racking pain in my head that does not allow me a moment's ease.
But if you think I am dying, Ramin, you are quite mistaken."

"No doubt, my dear friend, no doubt; but in the meanwhile suppose we talk of this annuity.
Shall we say one thousand francs a year."

"What!" asked Bonelle, looking at him very fixedly.

"My dear friend, I mistook; I meant two thousand francs per annum," hurriedly rejoined Ramin.

Monsieur Bonelle closed his eyes, and appeared to fall into a gentle slumber. The mercer coughed;
the sick man never moved.

"Monsieur Bonelle."

No reply.

"My excellent friend."

Utter silence.

"Are you asleep?"

A long pause.

"Well, then, what do you say to three thousand?"

Monsieur Bonelle opened his eyes.

"Ramin," said he, sententiously, "you are a fool; the house brings me in four thousand as it is."

This was quite false, and the mercer knew it; but he had his own reasons for wishing to seem
to believe it true.

"Good Heavens!" said he, with an air of great innocence, "who could have thought it, and the
lodgers constantly running away. Four thousand? Well, then, you shall have four thousand."

Monsieur Bonelle shut his eyes once more, and murmured "The mere rental--nonsense!" He then
folded his hands on his breast, and appeared to compose himself to sleep.

"Oh, what a sharp man of business he is!" Ramin said, admiringly: but for once omnipotent flattery
failed in its effect: "So acute!" continued he, with a stealthy glance at the old man, who
remained perfectly unmoved.

"I see you will insist upon making it the other five hundred francs."

Monsieur Ramin said this as if five thousand five hundred francs had already been mentioned,
and was the very summit of Monsieur Bonelle's ambition. But the ruse failed in its effect;
the sick man never so much as stirred.

"But, my dear friend," urged Monsieur Ramin in a tone of feeling remonstrance, "there is such
a thing as being too sharp, too acute. How can you expect that I shall give you more when your
constitution is so good, and you are to be such a long liver?"

"Yes, but I may be carried off one of these days," quietly observed the old man, evidently
wishing to turn the chance of his own death to account.

"Indeed, and I hope so," muttered the mercer, who was getting very ill-tempered.

"You see," soothingly continued Bonelle, "you are so good a man of business, Ramin, that you
will double the actual value of the house in no time. I am a quiet, easy person, indifferent
to money; otherwise this house would now bring me in eight thousand at the very least."

"Eight thousand!" indignantly exclaimed the mercer. "Monsieur Bonelle, you have no conscience.
Come now, my dear friend, do be reasonable. Six thousand francs a year (I don't mind saying
six) is really a very handsome income for a man of your quiet habits. Come, be reasonable."
But Monsieur Bonelle turned a deaf ear to reason, and closed his eyes once more. What between
opening and shutting them for the next quarter of an hour, he at length induced Monsieur Ramin
to offer him seven thousand francs.

"Very well, Ramin, agreed," he quietly said; "you have made an unconscionable bargain." To
this succeeded a violent fit of coughing.

As Ramin unlocked the door to leave, he found old Marguerite, who had been listening all the
time, ready to assail him with a torrent of whispered abuse for duping her "poor dear innocent
old master into such a bargain." The mercer bore it all very patiently: he could make all allowances
for her excited feelings, and only rubbed his hands and bade her a jovial good evening.

The agreement was signed on the following day, to the indignation of old Marguerite, and the
mutual satisfaction of the parties concerned.

Every one admired the luck and shrewdness of Ramin, for the old man every day was reported
worse; and it was clear to all that the first quarter of the annuity would never be paid. Marguerite,
in her wrath, told the story as a grievance to every one; people listened, shook their heads,
and pronounced Monsieur Ramin to be a deuced clever fellow.

A month elapsed. As Ramin was coming down one morning from the attics, where he had been giving
notice to a poor widow who had failed in paying her rent, he heard a light step on the stairs.
Presently a sprightly gentleman, in buoyant health and spirits, wearing the form of Monsieur
Bonelle, appeared. Ramin stood aghast.

"Well, Ramin," gaily said the old man, "how are you getting on? Have you been tormenting the
poor widow up stairs? Why, man, we must live and let live!"

"Monsieur Bonelle," said the mercer, in a hollow tone; "may I ask where are your rheumatics?"

"Gone, my dear friend,--gone."

"And the gout that was creeping higher and higher every day," exclaimed Monsieur Ramin, in
a voice of anguish.

"It went lower and lower, till it disappeared altogether," composedly replied Bonelle.

"And your asthma--"

"The asthma remains, but asthmatic people are proverbially long-lived. It is, I have been told,
the only complaint that Methusalah was troubled with." With this Bonelle opened his door, shut
it, and disappeared.

Ramin was transfixed on the stairs; petrified with intense disappointment, and a powerful sense
of having been duped. When he was discovered, he stared vacantly, and raved about an Excellent
Opportunity of taking his revenge.

The wonderful cure was the talk of the neighborhood, whenever Monsieur Bonelle appeared in
the streets, jauntily flourishing his cane. In the first frenzy of his despair, Ramin refused
to pay; he accused every one of having been in a plot to deceive him; he turned off Catharine
and expelled his porter: he publicly accused the lawyer and priest of conspiracy; brought an
action against the doctor and lost it. He had another brought against him for violently assaulting
Marguerite, in which he was cast in heavy damages. Monsieur Bonelle did not trouble himself
with useless remonstrances, but when his annuity was refused, employed such good legal arguments,
as the exasperated mercer could not possibly resist.

Ten years have elapsed, and MM. Ramin and Bonelle still live on. For a house which would have
been dear at fifty thousand francs, the draper has already handed over seventy thousand.

The once red-faced, jovial Ramin is now a pale haggard man, of sour temper and aspect. To add
to his anguish he sees the old man thrive on that money which it breaks his heart to give.
Old Marguerite takes a malicious pleasure in giving him an exact account of their good cheer,
and in asking him if he does not think Monsieur looks better and better every day. Of one part
of this torment Ramin might get rid, by giving his old master notice to quit, and no longer
having him in his house. But this he cannot do; he has a secret fear that Bonelle would take
some Excellent Opportunity of dying without his knowledge, and giving some other person an
Excellent Opportunity of persecuting him, and receiving the money in his stead.

The last accounts of the victim of Excellent Opportunities represent him as being gradually
worn down with disappointment. There seems every probability of his being the first to leave
the world; for Bonelle is heartier than ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

In dreamy hours the dormant imagination looks out and sees vague significances in things which
it feels can at an after time be vividly conceived and expressed; the most familiar objects
have a strange double meaning in their aspects; the very chair seems to be patiently awaiting
there the expounder of its silent, symbolical language.--Boston Morning Post.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM BENTLEY'S MISCELLANY.]

GREECE AND TURKEY.[2]

Whatever Mr. AUBREY DE VERE sees, he picturesquely describes; and so far as words can do so,
he makes pictures of all the subjects he writes upon; and had he painted as he has written,
or used his pencil equally well with his pen, two more delightful volumes, to any lover of
Greece, it would be difficult to name. With an evidently refined taste, and a perfect acquaintance
with the ancient history of the country he traveled through, and the ever famous characters
that made its history what it is, his descriptions combine most pleasingly together, the past
with the present. He peoples the scenery with the men whose deeds give to that scenery all
its interest; and whether on the plain of Marathon, or the site of Delphi or the Acropolis,
he has a store of things to say of their past glories, and links together, with great artistic
skill, that which is gone with that which remains.

[Footnote 2: Picturesque Sketches of Greece and Turkey. By Aubrey De Vere, 2 vols. [Philadelphia:
A. Hart.]]

By the scholar and the man of taste the volumes will be read with no little delight, as they
abound much more with reflections and sensible observations, than with the commonplace incidents
of travel. Indeed, the author has left but small space for his accidents at sea and his hardships
on shore, since all the chapters but four are devoted to Athens, Delphi, and Constantinople.
The classical reader will prefer the chapters on the two first-named places; the general reader
will find perhaps more interesting his sketches of the city of the Sultan, and an anecdote
which he gives of the present Sultan, and which declares him to possess more of decision, and
firmness of character, and good sense, than the world gives him credit for. His description
of the Bosphorus will create in many a desire to see what he has seen, and to look upon some,
at least, of the fifty-seven palaces which the sultans have raised upon its banks; and upon
the hundreds of others, which, while the Commander of the Faithful permits it, are the property
of his subjects.

It argued far more of a wild spirit of adventure than of a sober understanding in Aubrey de
Vere, to go with that clever Frenchman to the Turk's house, and to play off all those tricks
in the presence of its master and his ten unvailed wives. Rarely indeed, if ever before, has
an Englishman passed an hour so comfortably with the whole of a rich man's harem, and seen
them as de Vere saw them in all their artlessness and beauty. We live, indeed, in strange times,
when the once scorned and loathed Giaours contrive to possess themselves of such extraordinary
privileges, and to escape unharmed from such hitherto unheard-of enjoyments.

Where one thought was given to Constantinople a hundred years since from the west of the Dalmatian
coast, ten thousand eyes are now constantly directed to it, and with continually increasing
anxiety. The importance of that city is now understood by all the European powers, and its
future fate has become a subject of deep interest to all the western states, in consequence
of the determined set made upon it by its powerful northern neighbor. With the Cossacks at
Istamboul instead of Turks, we should be very ill satisfied, and the whole charm of this city
on its seven hills would have departed: already is it on the wane. Sultan Mahmoud's hostility
to beards and to flowing robes, to the turban and the jherid, has deprived his capital city
of much of its picturesqueness and peculiarity; but still enough remains of eastern manners
and costumes to make it one of the most interesting cities in the world to visit and roam over.
Such as, like ourselves, may not hope to sport a caique on the Bosphorus, will do well to acquaint
themselves with the information Aubrey de Vere can give them, and to suffer their imagination
to transport them to scenes among the fairest and the loveliest on the earth's surface, and
which are presented to them in these volumes as graphically as words can paint them.

By the possessor of Wordsworth's Greece, where every spot almost, of the slightest historical
interest, is given in a picture on its pages, these "Picturesque Sketches" will be read with
the highest gratification that scenes and descriptions together can supply. There is so much
of mind in them; so much of sound philosophy in the observations; such beautiful thoughts;
so well, so elegantly expressed; so many allusions to the past, that are continually placing
before us Pericles, Themistocles, or Demosthenes, that we are improved while amused, and feel
at every page that we are reading a work far above the general works on such subjects; a work
of lasting interest, that may be read and re-read, and still with delight and advantage.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH AND SLEEP.

FROM THE GERMAN OF KRUMMACHER.

In brotherly embrace walked the Angel of Sleep and the Angel of Death upon the earth.

It was evening. They laid themselves down upon a hill not far from the dwelling of men. A melancholy
silence prevailed around, and the chimes of the evening-bell in the distant hamlet ceased.

Still and silent, as was their custom, sat these two beneficent Genii of the human race, their
arms entwined with cordial familiarity, and soon the shades of night gathered around them.

Then arose the Angel of Sleep from his moss-grown couch, and strewed with a gentle hand the
invisible grains of slumber. The evening breeze wafted them to the quiet dwelling of the tired
husbandman, infolding in sweet sleep the inmates of the rural cottage--from the old man upon
the staff, down to the infant in the cradle. The sick forgot their pain: the mourners their
grief; the poor their care. All eyes closed.

His task accomplished, the benevolent Angel of Sleep laid himself again by the side of his
grave brother. "When Aurora awakes," exclaimed he, with innocent joy, "men praise me as their
friend and benefactor. Oh! what happiness, unseen and secretly to confer such benefits! How
blessed are we to be the invisible messengers of the Good Spirit! How beautiful is our silent
calling!"

So spake the friendly Angel of Slumber.

The Angel of Death sat with still deeper melancholy on his brow, and a tear, such as mortals
shed, appeared in his large dark eyes. "Alas!" said he, "I may not, like thee, rejoice in the
cheerful thanks of mankind; they call me upon the earth their enemy, and joy-killer."

"Oh! my brother," replied the gentle Angel of Slumber, "and will not the good man, at his awakening,
recognize in thee his friend and benefactor, and gratefully bless thee in his joy? Are we not
brothers, and ministers of one Father?"

As he spake, the eyes of the Death-Angel beamed with pleasure, and again did the two friendly
Genii cordially embrace each other.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MODERN SCHOOLS OF ATHENS.--I visited, with equal surprise and satisfaction, an Athenian
school, which contained seven hundred pupils, taken from every class of society. The poorer
classes were gratuitously instructed in reading, writing, and arithmetic, and the girls in
needlework likewise. The progress which the children had made was very remarkable; but what
particularly pleased me was that air of bright alertness and good-humored energy which belonged
to them, and which made every task appear a pleasure, not a toil. The greatest punishment which
can be inflicted on an Athenian child is exclusion from school, though but for a day. About
seventy of the children belonged to the higher classes, and were instructed in music, drawing,
the modern languages, the ancient Greek, and geography. Most of them were at the moment reading
Herodotus and Homer. I have never seen children approaching them in beauty; and was much struck
by their Oriental cast of countenance, their dark complexions, their flashing eyes, and that
expression, at once apprehensive and meditative, which is so much more remarkable in children
than in those of a more mature age.--De Vere.

