    Again, in Richard III., Act IV. Sc. 4.: "And makes her pue-fellow
    with others moan."--In Decker's Westward Hoe: "Being one day in
    church, she made mone to her pue-fellow."--And in the Northern Hoe
    of the same author: "He would make him a pue-fellow with lords."--See
    a paper on The History of Pews, read before the Cambridge Camden
    Society, Nov. 22, 1841.]

"Jerningham" and "Doveton."--Who was the author of Jerningham and Doveton, two admirable works
of fiction published some twelve or fifteen years ago? They are equal to anything written by
Bulwer Lytton or by James.

J. MT.

    [The author of these works was Mr. Anstruther.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

BATTLE OF VILLERS EN COUCHÉ.

(Vol. viii., p. 8.)

I possess a singular work, consisting of a series of Poetical Sketches of the campaigns of
1793 and 1794, written, as the title-page asserts, by an "officer of the Guards;" who appears
to have been, from what he subsequently states, on the personal staff of His Royal Highness
the late Duke of York. This work, I have been given to understand, was suppressed shortly after
its publication; the ludicrous light thrown by its pages on the conduct of many of the chief
parties engaged in the transactions it records, being no doubt unpalatable to those high in
authority. From the notes, which are valuable as appearing to emanate from an eye-witness,
and sometimes an actor in the scenes he describes, I send the following extracts for the information
of your correspondent; premising that the letter to which they are appended is dated from the
"Camp at Inchin, April 26, 1794."

    "As the enemy were known to have assembled in great force at the Camp
    de Cæsar, near Cambray, Prince Cobourg requested the Duke of York would
    make a reconnoissance in that direction: accordingly, on the evening
    of the 23rd, Major-General Mansel's brigade of heavy cavalry was
    ordered about a league in front of their camp, where they lay that
    night at a farm-house, forming part of a detachment under General
    Otto. Early the next morning, an attack was made on the French drawn up
    in front of the village of Villers en Couchée (between Le Cateau and
    Bouchain) by the 15th regiment of Light Dragoons, and two squadrons of
    Austrian Hussars: they charged the enemy with such velocity and force,
    that, darting through their cavalry, they dispersed a line of infantry
    formed in their rear, forcing them also to retreat {128} precipitately
    and in great confusion, under cover of the ramparts of Cambray; with a
    loss of 1200 men, and three pieces of cannon. The only British officer
    wounded was Captain Aylett: sixty privates fell, and about twenty were
    wounded.

    "Though the heavy brigade was formed at a distance under a brisk
    cannonade, while the light dragoons had so glorious an opportunity of
    distinguishing themselves, there are none who can attach with propriety
    any blame on account of their unfortunate delay; for which General Otto
    was surely, as having the command, alone accountable, and not General
    Mansel, who acted at all times, there is no doubt, according to the
    best of his judgment for the good of the service.

    "The Duke of York had, on the morning of the 26th, observed the left
    flank of the enemy to be unprotected; and, by ordering the cavalry to
    wheel round and attack on that side, afforded them an opportunity of
    gaining the highest credit by defeating the French army so much
    superior to them in point of numbers.

    "General Mansel rushing into the thickest of the enemy, devoted himself
    to death; and animated by his example, that very brigade performed
    such prodigies of valour, as must have convinced the world that
    Britons, once informed how to act, justify the highest opinion that
    can possibly be entertained of their native courage. Could such men
    have ever been willingly backward? Certainly not.

    "General Mansel's son, a captain in the 3rd Dragoon Guards, anxious to
    save his father's life, had darted forwards, and was taken prisoner,
    and carried into Cambray. Since his exchange, he has declared that
    there was not, on the 26th, a single French soldier left in the town,
    as Chapuy had drawn out the whole garrison to augment the army destined
    to attack the camp of Inchi. Had that circumstance been fortunately
    known at the time, a detachment of the British army might easily have
    marched along the Chaussée, and taken possession of the place ere the
    Republicans could possibly have returned, as they had in their retreat
    described a circuitous detour of some miles."

MR. SIMPSON will perceive, from the above extracts, that the brilliant skirmish of Villers
en Couché took place on April 24th; whereas the defeat of the French army under Chapuy did
not occur until two days later. A large quantity of ammunition and thirty-five pieces of cannon
were then captured; and although the writer does not mention the number who were killed on
the part of the enemy, yet, as he states that Chapuy and near 400 of his men were made prisoners,
their loss by death was no doubt proportionately large.

The 15th Hussars have long borne on their colours the memorable words "Villers en Couché" to
commemorate the daring valour they displayed on that occasion.

T. C. SMITH.

In Cruttwell's Universal Gazetteer (1808), this village, which is five miles north-east of
Cambray, is described as being "remarkable for an action between the French and the Allies
on the 24th of April, 1794." The following officers of the 15th regiment of light dragoons
are there named as having afterwards received crosses of the Order of Maria Theresa for their
gallant behaviour, from the Emperor of Germany, viz.:

    "Major W. Aylett, Capt. Robert Pocklington, Capt. Edw. Michael Ryan,
    Lieut. Thos. Granby Calcraft, Lieut. Wm. Keir, Lieut. Chas. Burrel
    Blount, Cornet Edward Gerald Butler, and Cornet Robert Thos. Wilson."

D. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

SNAIL-EATING.

(Vol. viii., p. 33.)

The Surrey snails referred to by H. T. RILEY, are thus mentioned by Aubrey in his account of
Box Hill:

    "On the south downs of this county (Surrey), and in those of Sussex,
    are the biggest snails that ever I saw, twice or three times as big as
    our common snails, which are the Bavoli or Drivalle, which Mr. Elias
    Ashmole tells me that the Lord Marshal brought from Italy, and
    scattered them on the Downs hereabouts, and between Albury and Horsley,
    where are the biggest of all."

Again, Aubrey, in his Natural History of Wiltshire, says:

    "The great snailes on the downes at Albury, in Surrey (twice as big as
    ours) were brought from Italy by * * * Earle Marshal, about
    1638."--Aubrey's History, p. 10., edited by John Britton, F.S.A.,
    published by the Wiltshire Topographical Society, 1847.

The first of these accounts, from Aubrey's Surrey, I have quoted in my Promenade round Dorking,
2nd edit. 1823, p. 274., and have added in a note:

    "This was one of the Earls of Arundel. It is probably from this snail
    account that the error, ascribing the planting of the box (on Box Hill)
    to one of the Earls of Arundel, has arisen. The snails were brought
    thither for the Countess of Arundel, who was accustomed to dress and
    eat them for a consumptive complaint."

When I lived at Dorking (1815-1821) a breed of large white snails was found on Box Hill.

JOHN TIMBS.

MR. H. T. RILEY is informed that the breed of white snails he refers to is to be plentifully
found in the neighbourhood of Shere. I have found them frequently near the neighbouring village
of Albury, on St. Martha's Hill, and I am told they are to be met with in the lanes as far
as Dorking. I have always heard that they were imported for the use of a lady who was in a
consumption; but who this was, or when it happened, I have never been able to ascertain.

NEDLAM.

The breed of large white snails is to be found all along the escarpment of the chalk range,
and is {129} not confined to Surrey. It is said to have been introduced into England by Sir
Kenelm Digby, and was considered very nutritious and wholesome for consumptive patients. About
the end of the last century I was in the habit of collecting a few of the common garden snails
from the fruit-trees, and taking them every morning to a lady who was in a delicate state of
health; she took them boiled or stewed, or cooked in some manner with milk, making a mucilaginous
drink.

E. H.

I have somewhere read of the introduction of a foreign breed of snails into Cambridgeshire,
I forget the exact locality, for the table of the monks who imported them; but unfortunately
it was before I commenced making "notes" on the subject, and I have not been able to recollect
where to find it.

SELEUCUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTION NEAR CIRENCESTER.

(Vol. viii., p. 76.)

This inscription is not "in Earl Bathurst's park," as your correspondent A. SMITH says, but
is in Oakley Woods, situated at some three or four miles' distance from Cirencester, and being
separated and quite distinct from the park; nor is the inscription correctly copied. Rudder,
in his new History of Gloucestershire, 1779, says:

    "Concealed as it were in the wood stands Alfred's Hall, a building that
    has the semblance of great antiquity. Over the door opposite to the
    south entrance, on the inside, is the following inscription in the
    Saxon character and language [of which there follows a copy]. Over the
    south door is the following Latin translation:

    "'Foedus quod Ælfredus & Gythrunus reges, omnes Anglia sapientes, &
    quicunq; Angliam incolebant orientalem, ferierunt; & non solum de
    seipsis, verum etiam de natis suis, ac nondum in lucem editis,
    quotquot misericordiæ divinæ aut regiæ velint esse participes
    jurejurando sanxerunt.

    "'Primò ditionis nostræ fines ad Thamesin evehuntur, inde ad Leam
    usq; ad fontem ejus; tum recta ad Bedfordiam, ac deniq; per Usam ad
    viam Vetelingianam.'"

I copy from Rudder, with the stops and contracted "et's," as they stand in his work; though
I think the original has points between each word, as marked by A. SMITH.

The omissions and mistakes of your correspondent (which you will perceive are important) are
marked in Italics above.

Rudder adds,--

    "Behind this building is a ruin with a stone on the chimney-piece, on
    which, in ancient characters relieved on the stone, is this
    inscription:

     'IN . MEM . ALFREDI . REG . RESTAVR . ANO . DO . 1085.'

    "It would have been inexcusable in the topographer to have passed by so
    curious a place without notice; but the historian would have been
    equally culpable who should not have informed the reader that this
    building is an excellent imitation of antiquity. The name, the
    inscription, and the writing over the doors, of the convention between
    the good king and his pagan enemies, were probably all suggested by the
    similarity of Achelie, the ancient name of this place, to Æcglea,
    where King Alfred rested with his army the night before he attacked the
    Danish camp at Ethandun, and at length forced their leader Godrum, or
    Guthrum, or Gormund, to make such convention."

It is many years since I saw the inscription, and then I made no note of it; but I have no
doubt that Rudder has given it correctly, because when I was a young man I was intimately acquainted
with him, who was then an aged person; and a curious circumstance that occurred between us,
and is still full in my memory, impressed me with the idea of his great precision and exactness.

I would remark on the explanation given by Rudder, that the Iglea of Asser is supposed by Camden,
Gibson, Gough, and Sir Richard Colt Hoare to be Clayhill, eastward of Warminster; and Ethandun
to be Edington, about three miles eastward of Westbury, both in Wilts.

Asser says that, "in the same year," the year of the battle, "the army of the pagans, departing
from Chippenham, as had been promised, went to Cirencester, where they remained one year."

On the signal defeat of Guthrum, he gave hostages to Alfred; and it is probable that, if any
treaty was made between them, it was made immediately after the battle; and not that Alfred
came from his fortress of Æthelingay to meet Guthrum at Cirencester, where his army lay after
leaving Chippenham.

If the treaty was made soon after the battle, it might have been at Alfred's Hall near Cirencester,
especially if Hampton (Minchinhampton in Gloucestershire), which is only six miles from Oakley
Wood, be the real site of the great and important battle, as was, a few years since, very plausibly
argued by Mr. John Marks Moffatt, in a paper inserted, with the signature "J. M. M.," in Brayley's
Graphic and Historical Illustrator, p. 106. et seq., 1834.

The mention of Rudder's History brings to my mind an inscription over the door of Westbury
Court, which I noticed when a boy at school, in the village of Westbury in this county. This
mansion was taken down during the minority of Maynard Colchester, Esq., the present owner of
the estate. Rudder, in his account of that parish, has preserved the inscription--

           "D.
          O. M.
  N. M. M. H. E. P. N. C."

He reads the first three letters "Deo Optimo Maximo," and says the subsequent line contains
the initials of the following hexameter:

 "Nunc mea, mox hujus, et postea nescio cujus,"

{130} alluding to the successive descent of property from one generation to another.

Perhaps one of your readers may be enabled to tell me whether the above line be original, or
copied, and from whom.

P. H. FISHER.

Stroud.

The agreement referred to is no other than the famous treaty of peace between Alfred and Guthrun,
whose name, by the substitution of an initial "L." for a "G.," among various other inaccuracies
for which your correspondent is perhaps not responsible, has been disguised under the form
of "Lvthrvnvs." The inscription itself forms the commencement of the treaty, which is stated,
in Turner's Anglo-Saxons, book iv. ch. v., to be still extant.

    "Primo igitur ditionis nostræ fines ad Thamesim fluvium evehuntor: Inde
    ad Leam flumen profecti, ad fontem ejus deferuntor: tum rectà ad
    Bedfordiam porriguntor, ac denique per Usam fluvium porrecti ad viam
    Vetelingianam desinunto."

Another translation will be found in Wilkins's Leges Anglo-Saxonicæ, p. 47., and the Saxon
original in both. As to the boundaries here defined, see note in Spelman's Alfred, p. 36.

At Cirencester Guthrun remained for twelve months after his baptism, according to his treaty
with Alfred. (See Sim. Dunelm. de gestis Regum Anglorum, sub anno 879.)

J. F. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS CUSTOM OF RINGING BELLS FOR THE DEAD.

(Vol. viii., p. 55.)

W. W., alluding to such a custom at Marshfield, Massachusets, asks "if this custom ever did,
or does now exist in the mother country?" The curiosity is that your worthy Querist has never
heard of it! Dating from Malta, it may be he has never been in our ringing island: for it must
be known to every Englishman, that the custom, varying no doubt in different localities, exists
in every parish in England.

The passing bell is of older date than the canon of our church, which directs "that when any
is passing out of this life, a bell shall be tolled, and the minister shall not then slack
to do his duty. And after the party's death, if it so fall out, then shall be rung no more
than one short peal."

It is interesting to learn that our colonists keep up this custom of their mother country.

In this parish, the custom has been to ring as quickly after death as the sexton can be found;
and the like prevails elsewhere. I have known persons, sensible of their approaching death,
direct the bell at once to be tolled.

Durand, in his Rituals of the Roman Church, says: "For expiring persons bells must be tolled,
that people may put up their prayers: this must be done twice for a woman, and thrice for a
man." And such is still the general custom: either before or after the knell is rung, to toll
three times three, or three times two, at intervals, to mark the sex.[6]

"Defunctos plorare" is probably as old as any use of a bell; but there is every reason to believe
that--

    "the ringing of bells at the departure of the soul (to quote from
    Brewster's Ency.) originated in the darkest ages, but with a
    different view from that in which they are now employed. It was to
    avert the influence of Demons. But if the superstition of our ancestors
    did not originate in this imaginary virtue, while they preserved the
    practice, it is certain they believed the mere noise had the same
    effect; and as, according to their ideas, evil spirits were always
    hovering around to make a prey of departing souls, the tolling of bells
    struck them with terror. We may trace the practice of tolling bells
    during funerals to the like source. This has been practised from times
    of great antiquity: the bells being muffled, for the sake of greater
    solemnity, in the same way as drums are muffled at military funerals."

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Rectory, Clyst St. George.

At St. James' Church, Hull, on the occurrence of a death in the parish, a bell is tolled quickly
for about the space of ten minutes; and before ceasing, nine knells given if the deceased be
a man, six if a woman, and three if a child. As far as I have been able to ascertain, the custom
is now almost peculiar to the north of England; but in ancient times it must have been very
general according to Durandus, who has the following in his Rationale, lib. i. cap. 4. 13.:

    "Verum aliquo moriente, campanæ debent pulsari; ut populus hoc audiens,
    oret pro illo. Pro muliere quidem bis, pro eo quod invenit
    asperitatem.... Pro viro vero ter pulsator.... Si autem clericus sit,
    tot vicibus simpulsatur, quot ordines habuit ipse. Ad ultimum vero
    compulsari debet cum omnibus campanis, ut ita sciat populus pro quo sit
    orandum."--Mr. Strutt's Man. and Cust., iii. 176.

{131} Also a passage is quoted from an old English Homily, ending with:

    "At the deth of a manne three bellis shulde be ronge, as his knyll, in
    worscheppe of the Trinetee; and for a womanne, who was the secunde
    persone of the Trinetee, two bellis should be rungen."

In addition to the intention of the "passing-bell," afforded by Durandus above, it has been
thought that it was rung to drive away the evil spirits, supposed to stand at the foot of the
bed ready to seize the soul, that it might "gain start." Wynkyn de Worde, in his Golden Legend,
speaks of the dislike of spirits to bells. In alluding to this subject, Wheatly, in his work
on the Book of Common Prayer, chap. xi. sec. viii. 3., says:

    "Our Church, in imitation of the Saints of former ages, calls in the
    minister, and others who are at hand, to assist their brother in his
    last extremity."

Several other quotations might be adduced (vid. Brand's Antiq., vol. ii. pp. 203, 204. from
which much of the above has been derived) to show that "one short peal" was ordered only to
be rung after the Reformation: the custom of signifying the sex of the deceased by a certain
number of knells must be a relic, therefore, of very ancient usage, and unauthorised by the Church.

R. W. ELLIOT.

Clifton. And for a woman, who was the second person of the Trinitie, two bells should be ronge."]

       *       *       *       *       *

WHO FIRST THOUGHT OF TABLE-TURNING?

(Vol. viii., p. 57.)

Respecting the origin of this curious phenomenon in America, I am not able to give your correspondent,
J. G. T. of Hagley, any information; but it may interest him and others among the readers of
"N. & Q." to have some account of what appears to be the first recorded experiment, made in
Europe, of table-moving. These experiments are related in the supplement (now lying before
me) to the Allgemeine Zeitung of April 4, by Dr. K. Andrée, who writes from Bremen on the subject.
His letter is dated March 30, and begins by stating that the whole town had been for eight
days preceding in a state of most peculiar excitement, owing to a phenomenon which entirely
absorbed the attention of all, and about which no one had ever thought before the arrival of
the American steam-ship "Washington" from New York. Dr. Andrée proceeds to relate that the
information respecting table-moving was communicated in a letter, brought through that ship,
from a native of Bremen, residing in New York, to his sister, who was living in Bremen, and
who, in her correspondence with her brother, had been rallying him about the American spirit-rappings,
and other Yankee humbug, as she styled it, so rampant in the United States. Her brother instanced
this table-moving, performed in America, as no delusion, but as a fact, which might be verified
by any one; and then gave some directions for making the experiment, which was forthwith attempted
at the lady's house in Bremen, and with perfect success, in the presence of a large company.
In a few days the marvellous feat, the accounts of which flew like wildfire all over the country,
was executed by hundreds of experimenters in Bremen. The subject was one precisely adapted
to excite the attention and curiosity of the imaginative and wonder-loving Germans; and, accordingly,
in a few days after, a notice of the strange phenomenon appeared in The Times, in a letter
from Vienna, and, through the medium of the leading journal, the facts and experiments became
rapidly diffused over the world, and have been repeated and commented upon ten thousand fold.
As the experiment and its results are now brought within the domain of practical science, we
may hope to see them soon freed from the obscurity and uncertainty which still envelope them,
and assigned to their proper place in the wondrous system of "Him, in whom we live, and move,
and have our being."

JOHN MACRAY.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTCHMEN IN POLAND.

(Vol. vii., pp. 475. 600.)

    "Religious freedom was at that time [the middle of the sixteenth
    century] enjoyed in Poland to a degree unknown in any other part of
    Europe, where generally the Protestants were persecuted by the
    Romanists, or the Romanists by the Protestants. This freedom, united to
    commercial advantages, and a wide field for the exercise of various
    talents, attracted to Poland crowds of foreigners, who fled their
    native land on account of religious persecution; and many of whom
    became, by their industry and talents, very useful citizens of their
    adopted country. There were at Cracow, Vilna, Posen, &c., Italian and
    French Protestant congregations. A great number of Scotch settled in
    different parts of Poland; and there were Scotch Protestant
    congregations not only in the above-mentioned towns, but also in other
    places, and a particularly numerous one at Kieydany, a little town of
    Lithuania, belonging to the Princes Radziwill. Amongst the Scotch
    families settled in Poland, the principal were the Bonars, who arrived
    in that country before the Reformation, but became its most zealous
    adherents. This family rose, by its wealth, and the great merit of
    several of its members, to the highest dignities of the state, but
    became extinct during the seventeenth century. There are even now in
    Poland many families of Scotch descent belonging to the class of
    nobles; as, for instance, {132} the Haliburtons, Wilsons, Ferguses,
    Stuarts, Haslers, Watsons, &c. Two Protestant clergymen of Scotch
    origin, Forsyth and Inglis, have composed some sacred poetry. But the
    most conspicuous of all the Polish Scotchmen is undoubtedly Dr. John
    Johnstone [born in Poland 1603, died 1675], perhaps the most remarkable
    writer of the seventeenth century on natural history. It seems, indeed,
    that there is a mysterious link connecting the two distant countries;
    because, if many Scotsmen had in bygone days sought and found a second
    fatherland in Poland, a strong and active sympathy for the sufferings
    of the last-named country, and her exiled children, has been evinced in
    our own times by the natives of Scotland in general, and by some of the
    most distinguished amongst them in particular. Thus it was an eminent
    bard of Caledonia, the gifted author of The Pleasures of Hope, who,
    when

     'Sarmatia fell, unwept, without a crime,'

    has thrown, by his immortal strains, over the fall of her liberty, a
    halo of glory which will remain unfaded as long as the English language
    lasts. The name of Thomas Campbell is venerated throughout all Poland;
    but there is also another Scotch name [Lord Dudley Stuart] which is
    enshrined in the heart of every true Pole."--From Count Valerian
    Krasinski's Sketch of the Religious History of the Sclavonic Nations,
    p. 167.: Edinburgh, Johnstone and Hunter, 1851.

J. K.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTICIPATORY USE OF THE CROSS.

(Vol. vii., pp. 548. 629.)

I think THE WRITER OF "COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE UNSEEN WORLD" would have some difficulty in
referring to the works on which he based the statement that "it was a tradition in Mexico that
when that form (the cross) should be victorious, the old religion should disappear, and that
a similar tradition attached to it at Alexandria." He doubtless made the statement from memory,
and unintentionally confounded two distinct facts, viz. that the Mexicans worshipped the cross,
and had prophetic intimations of the downfall of their nation and religion by the oppression
of bearded strangers from the East. The quotation by MR. PEACOCK at p. 549., quoted also in
Purchas' Pilgrims, vol. v., proves, as do other authorities, that the cross was worshipped
in Mexico prior to the Spanish invasion, and therefore it was impossible that the belief mentioned
by THE WRITER, &c. could have prevailed.

On the first discovery of Yucatan,--

    "Grijaha was astonished at the sight of large crosses, evidently
    objects of worship."--Prescott's Mexico, vol. i. p. 203.

Mr. Stephens, in his Central America, vol. ii., gives a representation of one of these crosses.
The cross on the Temple of Serapis, mentioned in Socrates' Ecc. Hist., was undoubtedly the
well-known Crux ansata, the symbol of life. It was as the latter that the heathens appealed
to it, and the Christians explained it to them as fulfilled in the Death of Christ.

MR. PEACOCK asks for other instances: I subjoin some.

In India.--The great pagoda at Benares is built in the form of a cross. (Maurice's Ind. Ant.,
vol. iii. p. 31., City, Tavernier.)

