(492) It was from the same principle of fear, that he refused a new honour, devised and offered
him by the senate, though he was greedy of all such compliments.  It was this: "that as often
as he held the consulship, Roman knights, chosen by lot, should walk before him, clad in the
Trabea, with lances in their hands, amongst his lictors and apparitors."  As the time of the
danger which he apprehended drew near, he became daily more and more disturbed in mind; insomuch
that he lined the walls of the porticos in which he used to walk, with the stone called Phengites
[831], by the reflection of which he could see every object behind him.  He seldom gave an
audience to persons in custody, unless in private, being alone, and he himself holding their
chains in his hand. To convince his domestics that the life of a master was not to be attempted
upon any pretext, however plausible, he condemned to death Epaphroditus his secretary, because
it was believed that he had assisted Nero, in his extremity, to kill himself.

XV.  His last victim was Flavius Clemens [832], his cousin-german, a man below contempt for
his want of energy, whose sons, then of very tender age, he had avowedly destined for his successors,
and, discarding their former names, had ordered one to be called Vespasian, and the other Domitian.
Nevertheless, he suddenly put him to death upon some very slight suspicion [833], almost before
he was well out of his consulship. By this violent act he very much hastened his own destruction.
During eight months together there was so much lightning at Rome, and such accounts of the
phaenomenon were brought from other parts, that at last he cried out, "Let him now strike whom
he will."  The Capitol was struck by lightning, as well as the temple of the Flavian family,
with the Palatine-house, and his own bed-chamber.  The tablet also, inscribed upon the base
of his triumphal statue was carried away by the violence of the storm, and fell upon a neighbouring
(493) monument.  The tree which just before the advancement of Vespasian had been prostrated,
and rose again [834], suddenly fell to the ground.  The goddess Fortune of Praeneste, to whom
it was his custom on new year's day to commend the empire for the ensuing year, and who had
always given him a favourable reply, at last returned him a melancholy answer, not without
mention of blood.  He dreamt that Minerva, whom he worshipped even to a superstitious excess,
was withdrawing from her sanctuary, declaring she could protect him no longer, because she
was disarmed by Jupiter.  Nothing, however, so much affected him as an answer given by Ascletario,
the astrologer, and his subsequent fate.  This person had been informed against, and did not
deny his having predicted some future events, of which, from the principles of his art, he
confessed he had a foreknowledge.  Domitian asked him, what end he thought he should come to
himself?  To which replying, "I shall in a short time be torn to pieces by dogs," he ordered
him immediately to be slain, and, in order to demonstrate the vanity of his art, to be carefully
buried.  But during the preparations for executing this order, it happened that the funeral
pile was blown down by a sudden storm, and the body, half-burnt, was torn to pieces by dogs;
which being observed by Latinus, the comic actor, as he chanced to pass that way, he told it,
amongst the other news of the day, to the emperor at supper.

XVI.  The day before his death, he ordered some dates [835], served up at table, to be kept
till the next day, adding, "If I have the luck to use them."  And turning to those who were
nearest him, he said, "To-morrow the moon in Aquarius will be bloody instead of watery, and
an event will happen, which will be much talked of all the world over."  About midnight, he
was so terrified that he leaped out of bed.  That morning he tried and passed sentence on a
soothsayer sent from Germany, who being consulted about the lightning that had lately (494)
happened, predicted from it a change of government.  The blood running down his face as he
scratched an ulcerous tumour on his forehead, he said, "Would this were all that is to befall
me!"  Then, upon his asking the time of the day, instead of five o'clock, which was the hour
he dreaded, they purposely told him it was six.  Overjoyed at this information; as if all danger
were now passed, and hastening to the bath, Parthenius, his chamberlain, stopped him, by saying
that there was a person come to wait upon him about a matter of great importance, which would
admit of no delay.  Upon this, ordering all persons to withdraw, he retired into his chamber,
and was there slain.

XVII.  Concerning the contrivance and mode of his death, the common account is this.  The conspirators
being in some doubt when and where they should attack him, whether while he was in the bath,
or at supper, Stephanus, a steward of Domitilla's [836], then under prosecution for defrauding
his mistress, offered them his advice and assistance; and wrapping up his left arm, as if it
was hurt, in wool and bandages for some days, to prevent suspicion, at the hour appointed,
he secreted a dagger in them.  Pretending then to make a discovery of a conspiracy, and being
for that reason admitted, he presented to the emperor a memorial, and while he was reading
it in great astonishment, stabbed him in the groin.  But Domitian, though wounded, making resistance,
Clodianus, one of his guards, Maximus, a freedman of Parthenius's, Saturius, his principal
chamberlain, with some gladiators, fell upon him, and stabbed him in seven places.  A boy who
had the charge of the Lares in his bed-chamber, and was then in attendance as usual, gave these
further particulars: that he was ordered by Domitian, upon receiving his first wound, to reach
him a dagger which lay under his pillow, and call in his domestics; but that he found nothing
at the head of the bed, excepting the hilt of a (495) poniard, and that all the doors were
fastened: that the emperor in the mean time got hold of Stephanus, and throwing him upon the
ground, struggled a long time with him; one while endeavouring to wrench the dagger from him,
another while, though his fingers were miserably mangled, to tear out his eyes.  He was slain
upon the fourteenth of the calends of October [18th Sept.], in the forty-fifth year of his
age, and the fifteenth of his reign [837].  His corpse was carried out upon a common bier by
the public bearers, and buried by his nurse Phyllis, at his suburban villa on the Latin Way.
But she afterwards privately conveyed his remains to the temple of the Flavian family [838],
and mingled them with the ashes of Julia, the daughter of Titus, whom she had also nursed.

XVIII.  He was tall in stature, his face modest, and very ruddy; he had large eyes, but was
dim-sighted; naturally graceful in his person, particularly in his youth, excepting only that
his toes were bent somewhat inward, he was at last disfigured by baldness, corpulence, and
the slenderness of his legs, which were reduced by a long illness.  He was so sensible how
much the modesty of his countenance recommended him, that he once made this boast to the senate,
"Thus far you have approved both of my disposition and my countenance."  His baldness so much
annoyed him, that he considered it an affront to himself, if any other person was reproached
with it, either in jest or in earnest; though in a small tract he published, addressed to a
friend, "concerning the preservation of the hair," he uses for their mutual consolation the
words following:

    Ouch oraas oios kago kalos te megas te;
    Seest thou my graceful mien, my stately form?

"and yet the fate of my hair awaits me; however, I bear with fortitude this loss of my hair
while I am still young.  Remember that nothing is more fascinating than beauty, but nothing
of shorter duration."

XIX.  He so shrunk from undergoing fatigue, that he scarcely ever walked through the city on
foot.  In his (496) expeditions and on a march, he seldom rode on horse-back; but was generally
carried in a litter.  He had no inclination for the exercise of arms, but was very expert in
the use of the bow.  Many persons have seen him often kill a hundred wild animals, of various
kinds, at his Alban retreat, and fix his arrows in their heads with such dexterity, that he
could, in two shots, plant them, like a pair of horns, in each.  He would sometimes direct
his arrows against the hand of a boy standing at a distance, and expanded as a mark, with such
precision, that they all passed between the boy's fingers, without hurting him.

XX.  In the beginning of his reign, he gave up the study of the liberal sciences, though he
took care to restore, at a vast expense, the libraries which had been burnt down; collecting
manuscripts from all parts, and sending scribes to Alexandria [839], either to copy or correct
them.  Yet he never gave himself the trouble of reading history or poetry, or of employing
his pen even for his private purposes.  He perused nothing but the Commentaries and Acts of
Tiberius Caesar.  His letters, speeches, and edicts, were all drawn up for him by others; though
he could converse with elegance, and sometimes expressed himself in memorable sentiments. 
"I could wish," said he once, "that I was but as handsome as Metius fancies himself to be."
And of the head of some one whose hair was partly reddish, and partly grey, he said, "that
it was snow sprinkled with mead."

XXI.  "The lot of princes," he remarked, "was very miserable, for no one believed them when
they discovered a conspiracy, until they were murdered."  When he had leisure, he amused himself
with dice, even on days that were not festivals, and in the morning.  He went to the bath early,
and made a plentiful dinner, insomuch that he seldom ate more at supper than a Matian apple
[840], to which he added a (497) draught of wine, out of a small flask.  He gave frequent and
splendid entertainments, but they were soon over, for he never prolonged them after sun-set,
and indulged in no revel after.  For, till bed-time, he did nothing else but walk by himself
in private.

XXII.  He was insatiable in his lusts, calling frequent commerce with women, as if it was a
sort of exercise, klinopalaen, bed-wrestling; and it was reported that he plucked the hair
from his concubines, and swam about in company with the lowest prostitutes.  His brother's
daughter [841] was offered him in marriage when she was a virgin; but being at that time enamoured
of Domitia, he obstinately refused her.  Yet not long afterwards, when she was given to another,
he was ready enough to debauch her, and that even while Titus was living.  But after she had
lost both her father and her husband, he loved her most passionately, and without disguise;
insomuch that he was the occasion of her death, by obliging her to procure a miscarriage when
she was with child by him.

XXIII.  The people shewed little concern at his death, but the soldiers were roused by it to
great indignation, and immediately endeavoured to have him ranked among the gods.  They were
also ready to revenge his loss, if there had been any to take the lead.  However, they soon
after effected it, by resolutely demanding the punishment of all those who had been concerned
in his assassination.  On the other hand, the senate was so overjoyed, that they met in all
haste, and in a full assembly reviled his memory in the most bitter terms; ordering ladders
to be brought in, and his shields and images to be pulled down before their eyes, and dashed
in pieces upon the floor of the senate-house passing at the same time a decree to obliterate
his titles every where, and abolish all memory of him.  A few months before he was slain, a
raven on the Capitol uttered these words: "All will be well."  Some person gave the following
interpretation of this prodigy:

    (498) Nuper Tarpeio quae sedit culmine cornix.
    "Est bene," non potuit dicere; dixit, "Erit."

    Late croaked a raven from Tarpeia's height,
    "All is not yet, but shall be, right."

They say likewise that Domitian dreamed that a golden hump grew out of the back of his neck,
which he considered as a certain sign of happy days for the empire after him.  Such an auspicious
change indeed shortly afterwards took place, through the justice and moderation of the succeeding
emperors.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

If we view Domitian in the different lights in which he is represented, during his lifetime
and after his decease, his character and conduct discover a greater diversity than is commonly
observed in the objects of historical detail.  But as posthumous character is always the most
just, its decisive verdict affords the surest criterion by which this variegated emperor must
be estimated by impartial posterity.  According to this rule, it is beyond a doubt that his
vices were more predominant than his virtues: and when we follow him into his closet, for some
time after his accession, when he was thirty years of age, the frivolity of his daily employment,
in the killing of flies, exhibits an instance of dissipation, which surpasses all that has
been recorded of his imperial predecessors.  The encouragement, however, which the first Vespasian
had shown to literature, continued to operate during the present reign; and we behold the first
fruits of its auspicious influence in the valuable treatise of QUINTILIAN.

Of the life of this celebrated writer, little is known upon any authority that has a title
to much credit.  We learn, however, that he was the son of a lawyer in the service of some
of the preceding emperors, and was born in Rome, though in what consulship, or under what emperor,
it is impossible to determine.  He married a woman of a noble family, by whom he had two sons.
The mother died in the flower of her age, and the sons, at the distance of some time from each
other, when their father was advanced in years.   The precise time of Quintilian's own death
is equally inauthenticated with that of his birth; nor can we rely upon an author of suspicious
veracity, who says that he passed the latter part of his life in a state of indigence which
was alleviated by the liberality of his pupil, Pliny the Younger.  Quintilian opened a school
of rhetoric at Rome, where he not only discharged that labourious employment with great applause,
(499) during more than twenty years, but pleaded at the bar, and was the first who obtained
a salary from the state, for executing the office of a public teacher.  He was also appointed
by Domitian preceptor to the two young princes who were intended to succeed him on the throne.

After his retirement from the situation of a teacher, Quintilian devoted his attention to the
study of literature, and composed a treatise on the Causes of the Corruption of Eloquence.
At the earnest solicitation of his friends, he was afterwards induced to undertake his Institutiones
Oratoriae, the most elaborate system of oratory extant in any language. This work is divided
into twelve books, in which the author treats with great precision of the qualities of a perfect
orator; explaining not only the fundamental principles of eloquence, as connected with the
constitution of the human mind, but pointing out, both by argument and observation, the most
successful method of exercising that admirable art, for the accomplishment of its purpose.
So minutely, and upon so extensive a plan, has he prosecuted the subject, that he delineates
the education suitable to a perfect orator, from the stage of infancy in the cradle, to the
consummation of rhetorical fame, in the pursuits of the bar, or those, in general, of any public
assembly.  It is sufficient to say, that in the execution of this elaborate work, Quintilian
has called to the assistance of his own acute and comprehensive understanding, the profound
penetration of Aristotle, the exquisite graces of Cicero; all the stores of observation, experience,
and practice; and in a word, the whole accumulated exertions of ancient genius on the subject
of oratory.

It may justly be regarded as an extraordinary circumstance in the progress of scientific improvement,
that the endowments of a perfect orator were never fully exhibited to the world, until it had
become dangerous to exercise them for the important purposes for which they were originally
cultivated.  And it is no less remarkable, that, under all the violence and caprice of imperial
despotism which the Romans had now experienced, their sensibility to the enjoyment of poetical
compositions remained still unabated; as if it served to console the nation for the irretrievable
loss of public liberty.  From this source of entertainment, they reaped more pleasure during
the present reign, than they had done since the time of Augustus.  The poets of this period
were Juvenal, Statius, and Martial.

JUVENAL was born at Aquinum, but in what year is uncertain; though, from some circumstances,
it seems to have been in the reign of Augustus.  Some say that he was the son of a freedman,
(500) while others, without specifying the condition of his father, relate only that he was
brought up by a freedman.  He came at an early age to Rome, where he declaimed for many years,
and, pleaded causes in the forum with great applause; but at last he betook himself to the
writing of satires, in which he acquired great fame.  One of the first, and the most constant
object of is satire, was the pantomime Paris, the great favourite of the emperor Nero, and
afterwards of Domitian.  During the reign of the former of these emperors, no resentment was
shown towards the poet; but he experienced not the same impunity after the accession of the
latter; when, to remove him from the capital, he was sent as governor to the frontiers of Egypt,
but in reality, into an honourable exile.  According to some authors, he died of chagrin in
that province: but this is not authenticated, and seems to be a mistake: for in some of Martial's
epigrams, which appear to have been written after the death of Domitian, Juvenal is spoken
of as residing at Rome.  It is said that he lived to upwards of eighty years of age.

The remaining compositions of this author are sixteen satires, all written against the dissipation
and enormous vices which prevailed at Rome in his time.  The various objects of animadversion
are painted in the strongest colours, and placed in the most conspicuous points of view. Giving
loose reins to just and moral indignation, Juvenal is every where animated, vehement, petulant,
and incessantly acrimonious.  Disdaining the more lenient modes of correction, or despairing
of their success, he neither adopts the raillery of Horace, nor the derision of Persius, but
prosecutes vice and folly with all the severity of sentiment, passion, and expression.  He
sometimes exhibits a mixture of humour with his invectives; but it is a humour which partakes
more of virulent rage than of pleasantry; broad, hostile, but coarse, and rivalling in indelicacy
the profligate manners which it assails.  The satires of Juvenal abound in philosophical apophthegms;
and, where they are not sullied by obscene description, are supported with a uniform air of
virtuous elevation. Amidst all the intemperance of sarcasm, his numbers are harmonious.  Had
his zeal permitted him to direct the current of his impetuous genius into the channel of ridicule,
and endeavour to put to shame the vices and follies of those licentious times, as much as he
perhaps exasperated conviction rather than excited contrition, he would have carried satire
to the highest possible pitch, both of literary excellence and moral utility.  With every abatement
of attainable perfection, we hesitate not to place him at the head of this arduous department
of poetry.

Of STATIUS no farther particulars are preserved than that he (501) was born at Naples; that
his father's name was Statius of Epirus, and his mother's Agelina, and that he died about the
end of the first century of the Christian era.  Some have conjectured that he maintained himself
by writing for the stage, but of this there is no sufficient evidence; and if ever he composed
dramatic productions, they have perished.  The works of Statius now extant, are two poems,
viz. the Thebais and the Achilleis, besides a collection, named Silvae.

The Thebais consists of twelve books, and the subject of it is the Theban war, which happened
1236 years before the Christian era, in consequence of a dispute between Eteocles and Polynices,
the sons of Oedipus and Jocasta.  These brothers had entered into an agreement with each other
to reign alternately for a year at a time; and Eteocles being the elder, got first possession
of the throne.  This prince refusing to abdicate at the expiration of the year, Polynices fled
to Argos, where marrying Argia, the daughter of Adrastus, king of that country, he procured
the assistance of his father-in-law, to enforce the engagement stipulated with his brother
Eteocles.  The Argives marched under the command of seven able generals, who were to attack
separately the seven gates of Thebes.  After much blood had been spilt without any effect,
it was at last agreed between the two parties, that the brothers should determine the dispute
by single combat.  In the desperate engagement which ensued, they both fell; and being burnt
together upon the funeral pile, it is said that their ashes separated, as if actuated by the
implacable resentment which they had borne to each other.

If we except the Aeneid, this is the only Latin production extant which is epic in its form;
and it likewise approaches nearest in merit to that celebrated poem, which Statius appears
to have been ambitious of emulating.  In unity and greatness of action, the Thebais corresponds
to the laws of the Epopea; but the fable may be regarded as defective in some particulars,
which, however, arise more from the nature of the subject, than from any fault of the poet.
The distinction of the hero is not sufficiently prominent; and the poem possesses not those
circumstances which are requisite towards interesting the reader's affections in the issue
of the contest.  To this it may be added, that the unnatural complexion of the incestuous progeny
diffuses a kind of gloom which obscures the splendour of thought, and restrains the sympathetic
indulgence of fancy to some of the boldest excursions of the poet.  For grandeur, however,
and animation of sentiment and description, as well as for harmony of numbers, the Thebais
is eminently conspicuous, and deserves to be held in a much higher degree of estimation than
it has (502) generally obtained.  In the contrivance of some of the episodes, and frequently
in the modes of expression, Statius keeps an attentive eye to the style of Virgil.  It is said
that he was twelve years employed in the composition of this poem; and we have his own authority
for affirming, that he polished it with all the care and assiduity practised by the poets in
the Augustan age:

    Quippe, te fido monitore, nostra
    Thebais, multa cruciata lima,
    Tentat audaci fide Mantuanae
        Gaudia famae.--Silvae, lib. iv. 7.

    For, taught by you, with steadfast care
    I trim my "Song of Thebes," and dare
    With generous rivalry to share
        The glories of the Mantuan bard.

The Achilleis relates to the same hero who is celebrated by Homer in the Iliad; but it is the
previous history of Achilles, not his conduct in the Trojan war, which forms the subject of
the poem of Statius.  While the young hero is under the care of the Centaur Chiron, Thetis
makes a visit to the preceptor's sequestered habitation, where, to save her son from the fate
which, it was predicted, would befall him at Troy, if he should go to the siege of that place,
she orders him to be dressed in the disguise of a girl, and sent to live in the family of Lycomedes,
king of Scyros.  But as Troy could not be taken without the aid of Achilles, Ulysses, accompanied
by Diomede, is deputed by the Greeks to go to Scyros, and bring him thence to the Grecian camp.
The artifice by which the sagacious ambassador detected Achilles amongst his female companions,
was by placing before them various articles of merchandise, amongst which was some armour.
Achilles no sooner perceived the latter, than he eagerly seized a sword and shield, and manifesting
the strongest emotions of heroic enthusiasm, discovered his sex.  After an affectionate parting
with Lycomedes' daughter, Deidamia, whom he left pregnant of a son, he set sail with the Grecian
chiefs, and, during the voyage, gives them an account of the manner of his education with Chiron.

This poem consists of two books, in heroic measure, and is written with taste and fancy.  Commentators
are of opinion, that the Achilleis was left incomplete by the death of the author; but this
is extremely improbable, from various circumstances, and appears to be founded only upon the
word Hactenus, in the conclusion of the poem:

    (503) Hactenus annorum, comites, elementa meorum
    Et memini, et meminisse juvat: scit caetera mater.

    Thus far, companions dear, with mindful joy I've told
    My youthful deeds; the rest my mother can unfold.

That any consequential reference was intended by hactenus, seems to me plainly contradicted
by the words which immediately follow, scit caetera mater.  Statius could not propose the giving
any further account of Achilles's life, because a general narrative of it had been given in
the first book.  The voyage from Scyros to the Trojan coast, conducted with the celerity which
suited the purpose of the poet, admitted of no incidents which required description or recital:
and after the voyagers had reached the Grecian camp, it is reasonable to suppose, that the
action of the Iliad immediately commenced.  But that Statius had no design of extending the
plan of the Achilleis beyond this period, is expressly declared in the exordium of the poem:

    Magnanimum Aeaciden, formidatamque Tonanti
    Progeniem, et patrio vetitam succedere coelo,
    Diva, refer; quanquam acta viri multum inclyta cantu
    Maeonio; sed plura vacant.  Nos ire per omnem
    (Sic amor est) heroa velis, Scyroque latentem
    Dulichia proferre tuba: nec in Hectore tracto
    Sistere, sed tota juvenem deducere Troja.

    Aid me, O goddess! while I sing of him,
    Who shook the Thunderer's throne, and, for his crime,
    Was doomed to lose his birthright in the skies;
    The great Aeacides.  Maeonian strains
    Have made his mighty deeds their glorious theme;
    Still much remains: be mine the pleasing task
    To trace the future hero's young career,
    Not dragging Hector at his chariot wheels,
    But while disguised in Scyros yet he lurked,
    Till trumpet-stirred, he sprung to manly arms,
    And sage Ulysses led him to the Trojan coast.

The Silvae is a collection of poems almost entirely in heroic verse, divided into five books,
and for the most part written extempore. Statius himself affirms, in his Dedication to Stella,
that the production of none of them employed him more than two days; yet many of them consist
of between one hundred and two hundred hexameter lines.  We meet with one of two hundred and
sixteen lines; one, of two hundred and thirty-four; one, of two hundred and sixty-two; and
one of two hundred and seventy-seven; a rapidity of composition approaching to what Horace
mentions of the poet Lucilius.  It is no small encomium to observe, that, considered as extemporaneous
productions, (504) the meanest in the collection is far from meriting censure, either in point
of sentiment or expression; and many of them contain passages which command our applause.

The poet MARTIAL, surnamed likewise Coquus, was born at Bilbilis, in Spain, of obscure parents.
At the age of twenty-one, he came to Rome, where he lived during five-and-thirty years under
the emperors Galba, Otho, Vitellius, the two Vespasians, Domitian, Nerva, and the beginning
of the reign of Trajan.  He was the panegyrist of several of those emperors, by whom he was
liberally rewarded, raised to the Equestrian order, and promoted by Domitian to the tribuneship;
but being treated with coldness and neglect by Trajan, he returned to his native country, and,
a few years after, ended his days, at the age of seventy-five.

He had lived at Rome in great splendour and affluence, as well as in high esteem for his poetical
talents; but upon his return to Bilbilis, it is said that he experienced a great reverse of
fortune, and was chiefly indebted for his support to the gratuitous benefactions of Pliny the
Younger, whom he had extolled in some epigrams.

The poems of Martial consist of fourteen books, all written in the epigrammatic form, to which
species of composition, introduced by the Greeks, he had a peculiar propensity.  Amidst such
a multitude of verses, on a variety of subjects, often composed extempore, and many of them,
probably, in the moments of fashionable dissipation, it is not surprising that we find a large
number unworthy the genius of the author.  Delicacy, and even decency, is often violated in
the productions of Martial. Grasping at every thought which afforded even the shadow of ingenuity,
he gave unlimited scope to the exercise of an active and fruitful imagination.  In respect
to composition, he is likewise liable to censure.  At one time he wearies, and at another tantalises
the reader, with the prolixity or ambiguity of his preambles.  His prelusive sentiments are
sometimes far-fetched, and converge not with a natural declination into the focus of epigram.
In dispensing praise and censure, he often seems to be governed more by prejudice or policy,
than by justice and truth; and he is more constantly attentive to the production of wit, than
to the improvement of morality.

But while we remark the blemishes and imperfections of this poet, we must acknowledge his extraordinary
merits.  In composition he is, in general, elegant and correct; and where the subject is capable
of connection with sentiment, his inventive ingenuity never fails to extract from it the essence
of delight and surprise.  His fancy is prolific of beautiful images, and his (505) judgment
expert in arranging them to the greatest advantage.  He bestows panegyric with inimitable grace,
and satirises with equal dexterity.  In a fund of Attic salt, he surpasses every other writer;
and though he seems to have at command all the varied stores of gall, he is not destitute of
candour.  With almost every kind of versification he appears to be familiar; and notwithstanding
a facility of temper, too accommodating, perhaps, on many occasions, to the licentiousness
of the times, we may venture from strong indications to pronounce, that, as a moralist, his
principles were virtuous.  It is observed of this author, by Pliny the Younger, that, though
his compositions might, perhaps, not obtain immortality, he wrote as if they would.  [Aeterna,
quae scripsit, non erunt fortasse: ille tamen scripsit tanquam futura.]  The character which
Martial gives of his epigrams, is just and comprehensive:

    Sunt bona, sunt quaedam mediocria, sunt mala plura,
    Quae legis: hic aliter non fit, Avite, liber.

    Some are good, some indifferent, and some again still worse;
    Such, Avitus, you will find is a common case with verse.

THE END OF THE TWELVE CAESARS

FOOTNOTES:

[795]  A.U.C. 804.

[796]  A street, in the sixth region of Rome, so called, probably, from a remarkable specimen
of this beautiful shrub which had made free growth on the spot.

[797]  VITELLIUS, c. xv.

[798]  Tacitus (Hist. iii.) differs from Suetonius, saying that Domitian took refuge with a
client of his father's near the Velabrum.  Perhaps he found it more safe afterwards to cross
the Tiber.

[799]  One of Domitian's coins bears on the reverse a captive female and soldier, with GERMANIA
DEVICTA.

[800]  VESPASIAN, c. xii; TITUS, c. vi.

[801]  Such excavations had been made by Julius and by Augustus [AUG. xliii.], and the seats
for the spectators fitted up with timber in a rude way.  That was on the other side of the
Tiber.  The Naumachia of Domitian occupies the site of the present Piazza d'Espagna, and was
larger and more ornamented.

[802]  A.U.C. 841.  See AUGUSTUS, c. xxxi.

[803]  This feast was held in December.  Plutarch informs us that it was instituted in commemoration
of the seventh hill being included in the city bounds.

[804]  The Capitol had been burnt, for the third time, in the great fire mentioned TITUS, c.
viii.  The first fire happened in the Marian war, after which it was rebuilt by Pompey, the
second in the reign of Vitellius.

[805]  This forum, commenced by Domitian and completed by Nerva, adjoined the Roman Forum and
that of Augustus, mentioned in c. xxix. of his life. From its communicating with the two others,
it was called Transitorium. Part of the wall which bounded it still remains, of a great height,
and 144 paces long.  It is composed of square masses of freestone, very large, and without
any cement; and it is not carried in a straight line, but makes three or four angles, as if
some buildings had interfered with its direction.

[806]  The residence of the Flavian family was converted into a temple. See c. i. of the present
book.

[807]  The Stadium was in the shape of a circus, and used for races both of men and horses.

[808]  The Odeum was a building intended for musical performances.  There were four of them
at Rome.

[809]  See before, c. iv.

[810]  See VESPASIAN, c. xiv.

[811]  See NERD, c. xvi.

[812]  This absurd edict was speedily revoked.  See afterwards c. xiv.

[813]  This was an ancient law levelled against adultery and other pollutions, named from its
author Caius Scatinius, a tribune of the people.  There was a Julian law, with the same object.
See AUGUSTUS, c. xxxiv.

[814]  Geor. xi. 537.

[815]  See Livy, xxi. 63, and Cicero against Verres, v. 18.

[816]  See VESPASIAN, c. iii.

[817]  Cant names for gladiators.

[818]  The faction which favoured the "Thrax" party.

[819]   DOMITIAN, c. i.

[820]  See VESPASIAN, c. xiv.

[821]  This cruel punishment is described in NERO, c. xlix.

[822]  Gentiles who were proselytes to the Jewish religion; or, perhaps, members of the Christian
sect, who were confounded with them.  See the note to TIBERIUS, c. xxxvi.  The tax levied on
the Jews was two drachmas per head.  It was general throughout the empire.

[823]  We have had Suetonius's reminiscences, derived through his grandfather and father successively,
CALIGULA, c. xix.; OTHO, c. x.  We now come to his own, commencing from an early age.

[824]  This is what Martial calls, "Mentula tributis damnata."

[825]  The imperial liveries were white and gold.

