Within a few years after Elizabeth's cure I had handily repaired quite a few mentally ill people
in a harmless way no one had heard of; many new people were knocking at my door wanting to
be admitted to my drug free, home-based treatment program. So many in fact that my ability
to accommodate them was overwhelmed. I decided that it was necessary to move to a larger facility
and we bought an old, somewhat run-down estate that I called Great Oaks School of Health because
of the magnificent oak trees growing in the front yard.

At Great Oaks initially I continued working with psychotics, employing fasting as a tool, especially
in those cases with obvious food allergies as identified by Coca's Pulse Test, because it only
takes five days for a fasting body to eliminate all traces of an allergic food substance and
return to normal functioning. If the person was so severely hypoglycemic that they were unable
to tolerate a water fast, an elimination diet (to be described in detail later) was employed,
while stringently avoiding all foods usually found to be allergy producing.

I also decided that if I was going to employ fasting as my primary medicine, it was important
for me to have a more intense personal experience with it, because in the process of reviewing
the literature on fasting I saw that there were many different approaches, each one staunchly
defended by highly partisan advocates. For example, the capital "N" Natural, capital "H" Hygienists,
such a Herbert Shelton, aggressively assert that only a pure water fast can be called a fast.
Sheltonites contend that juice fasting as advocated by Paavo Airola, for example, is not a
fast but rather a modified diet without the benefits of real fasting. Colon cleansing was another
area of profound disagreement among the authorities. Shelton strongly insisted that enemas
and colonics should not be employed; the juice advocates tend to strongly recommend intestinal
cleansing.

To be able to intelligently take a position in this maze of conflict I decided to first try
every system on myself. It seems to me that if I can be said to really own anything in this
life it is my own body, and I have the absolute right to experiment with it as long as I'm
not irresponsible about important things such as care of my kids. I also feel strongly that
it was unethical to ask anyone to do anything that I was not willing or able to do myself.
Just imagine what would happen if all medical doctors applied this principal in their practice
of medicine, if all surgeons did it too!

I set out to do a complete and fully rigorous water fast according to the Natural Hygiene model--only
pure water and bed rest (with no colon cleansing) until hunger returns, something the hygienists
all assured me would happen when the body had completed its detoxification process. The only
aspect of a hygienic fast I could not fulfill properly was the bed rest part; unfortunately
I was in sole charge of a busy holistic treatment center (and two little girls); there were
things I had to do, though I did my chores and duties at a very slow pace with many rest periods.

I water fasted for 42 days dropping from 135 pounds to 85 pounds on a 5' 7" frame. At the end
I looked like a Nazi concentration camp victim. I tended to hide when people came to the door,
because the sight of all my bones scared them to death. Despite my assurances visitors assumed
I was trying to commit suicide. In any case I persevered, watching my body change, observing
my emotions, my mental functioning, and my spiritual awareness. I thought, if Moses could fast
for 42 days so can I, even though the average length of a full water fast to skeletal weight
for a person that is not overweight is more in the order of 30 days. I broke the fast with
small amounts of carrot juice diluted 50/50 with water and stayed on that regimen for two more
weeks.

After I resumed eating solid food it took six weeks to regain enough strength to be able to
run the same distance in the same time I had before fasting, and it took me about six months
to regain my previous weight. My eyes and skin had become exceptionally clear, and some damaged
areas of my body such as my twice-broken shoulder had undergone considerable healing. I ate
far smaller meals after the fast, but food was so much more efficiently absorbed that I got
a lot more miles to the gallon from what I did eat. I also became more aware when my body did
not want me to eat something. After the fast, if I ignored my body's protest and persisted,
it would immediately create some unpleasant sensation that quickly persuaded me to curb my
appetite.

I later experimented with other approaches to fasting, with juice fasts, with colon cleansing,
and began to establish my own eclectic approach to fasting and detoxification, using different
types of programs for different conditions and adjusting for psychological tolerances. I'll
have a lot more to say about fasting.

After my own rigorous fasting experience I felt capable of supervising extended fasts on very
ill or very overweight people. Great Oaks was gradually shifting from being a place that mentally
ill people came to regain their sanity to being a spa where anyone who wanted to improve their
health could come for a few days, some weeks or even a few months. It had been my observation
from the beginning that the mentally ill people in my program also improved remarkably in physical
health; it was obvious that my method was good for anyone. Even people with good health could
feel better.

By this time I'd also had enough of psychotic people anyway, and longed for sane, responsible
company.

So people started to come to Great Oaks School of Health to rest up from a demanding job, to
drop some excess weight, and generally to eliminate the adverse effects of destructive living
and eating habits. I also began to get cancer patients, ranging from those who had just been
diagnosed and did not wish to go the AMA-approved medical route of surgery, chemotherapy, and
radiation, to those with well-advanced cancer who had been sent home to die after receiving
all of the above treatments and were now ready to give alternative therapies a try since they
expected to die anyway. I also had a few people who were beyond help because their vital organs
had been so badly damaged that they knew they were dying, and they wanted to die in peace without
medical intervention, in a supportive hospice cared for by people who could confront death.

Great Oaks School was intentionally named a "school" of health partially to deflect the attentions
of the AMA. It is, after all, entirely legal to teach about how to maintain health, about how
to prevent illness, and how to go about making yourself well once you were sick. Education
could not be called "practicing medicine without a license." Great Oaks was also structured
as a school because I wanted to both learn and teach. Toward this end we started putting out
a holistic health newsletter and offering classes and seminars to the public on various aspects
of holistic health. From the early 1970s through the early 1980s I invited a succession of
holistic specialists to reside at GOSH, or to teach at Great Oaks while living elsewhere. These
teachers not only provided a service to the community, but they all became my teachers as well.
I apprenticed myself to each one in turn.

There came and went a steady parade of alternative practitioners of the healing arts and assorted
forms of metapsychology: acupuncturists, acupressurists, reflexologists, polarity therapists,
massage therapists, postural integrationists, Rolfers, Feldenkries therapists, neurolinguistic
programmers, biokinesiologists, iridologists, psychic healers, laying on of handsers, past
life readers, crystal therapists, toning therapists in the person of Patricia Sun, color therapy
with lamps and different colored lenses a la Stanley Bourroughs, Bach Flower therapists, aroma
therapists, herbalists, homeopaths, Tai Chi classes, yoga classes, Arica classes, Guergieff
and Ouspensky fourth-way study groups, EST workshops, Zen Meditation classes. Refugee Lamas
from Tibet gave lectures on The Book of the Dead and led meditation and chanting sessions,
and we held communication classes using Scientology techniques. There were anatomy and physiology
classes, classes on nutrition and the orthomolecular approach to treating mental disorders
(given by me of course); there were chiropractors teaching adjustment techniques, even first
aid classes. And we even had a few medical doctors of the alternative ilk who were interested
in life style changes as an approach to maintaining health.

Classes were also offered on colon health including herbs, clays, enemas, and colonics. So
many of my client at Great Oaks were demanding colonics in conjunction with their cleansing
programs, that I took time out to go to Indio, Calif. to take a course in colon therapy from
a chiropractor, and purchase a state of the art colonic machine featuring all the gauges, electric
water solenoids and stainless steel knobs one could ask for.

During this period almost all alternative therapists and their specialties were very interesting
to me, but I found that most of the approaches they advocated did not suit my personality.
For example, I think that acupuncture is a very useful tool, but I personally did not want
to use needles. Similarly I thought that Rolfing was a very effective tool but I did not enjoy
administering that much pain, although a significant number of the clients really wanted pain.
Some of the techniques appealed to me in the beginning, and I used them frequently with good
results but over time I decided to abandon them, mostly because of a desire to simplify and
lighten up my bag of tricks.

Because of my enthusiasm and successes Great Oaks kept on growing. Originally the estate served
as both the offices of the Holt Adoption Agency and the Holt family mansion. The Holt family
had consisted of Harry and Bertha Holt, six of their biological children, and eight adopted
Korean orphans. For this reason the ten thousand square foot two story house had large common
rooms, and lots and lots of bedrooms. It was ideal for housing spa clients and my own family.
The adjoining Holt Adoption Agency office building was also very large with a multitude of
rooms. It became living space for those helpers and hangers-on we came to refer to as "community
members." My first husband added even more to the physical plant constructing a large, rustic
gym and workshop.

Many "alternative" people visited and then begged to stay on with room and board provided in
exchange for their work. A few of these people made a significant contribution such as cooking,
child care, gardening, tending the ever-ravenous wood-fired boiler we used to keep the huge
concrete mansion heated, or doing general cleaning. But the majority of the 'work exchangers'
did not really understand what work really was, or didn't have sufficient ethical presence
to uphold the principle of fair exchange, which is basically giving something of equal value
for getting something of value and, perhaps more importantly, giving in exchange what is needed
and asked for.

I also found that community members, once in residence, were very difficult to dislodge. My
healing services were supporting far too much dead wood. This was basically my own fault, my
own poor management.

Still, I learned a great deal from all of this waste. First of all it is not a genuine service
to another human being to give them something for nothing. If a fair exchange is expected and
received, positive ethical behavior is strengthened, allowing the individual to maintain their
self-respect. I also came to realize what an important factor conducting one's life ethically
is in the individual healing process. Those patients who were out exchange in their relationships
with others in one or more areas of their life frequently did not get well until they changed
these behaviors.

Toward the end of 1982, after providing a decade of services to a great many clients, many
of these in critical condition, I reached to point where I was physically, mentally, and spiritually
drained. I needed a vacation desperately but no one, including my first husband, could run
Great Oaks in my absence much less cover the heavy mortgage. So I decided to sell it. This
decision stunned the community members and shocked the clientele who had become dependent on
my services. I also got a divorce at this time. In fact I went through quite a dramatic life
change in many areas--true to pattern, a classic mid-life crisis. All I kept from these years
was my two daughters, my life experiences, and far too many books from the enormous Great Oaks
library.

These changes were however, necessary for my survival. Any person who works with, yes, lives
on a day-to-day basis with sick people and who is constantly giving or outflowing must take
time out to refill their vessel so that they can give again. Failure to do this can result
in a serious loss of health, or death. Most healers are empathic people who feel other peoples'
pains and stresses and sometimes have difficulty determining exactly what is their own personal
'baggage' and what belongs to the clients. This is especially difficult when the therapy involves
a lot of 'hands on' techniques.

After leaving Great Oaks it took me a couple of years to rest up enough to want to resume practicing
again. This time, instead of creating a substantial institution, Steve, my second husband and
my best friend, built a tiny office next to our family home. I had a guest room that I would
use for occasional residential patients. Usually these were people I had known from Great Oaks
days or were people I particularly liked and wanted to help through a life crisis.

At the time I am writing this book over ten years have passed since I sold Great Oaks. I continue
to have an active outpatient practice, preferring to protect the privacy of my home and family
life since I was remarried by limiting inpatients to a special few who required more intensive
care, and then, only one at a time, and then, with long spells without a resident.

Chapter Two

The Nature and Cause of Disease

From The Hygienic Dictionary

Toxemia. [1] "Toxemia is the basic cause of all so-called diseases. In the process of tissue-building
(metabolism), there is cell-building (anabolism) and cell destruction (catabolism). The broken-down
tissue is toxic. In the healthy body (when nerve energy is normal), this toxic material is
eliminated from the blood as fast as it is evolved. But when nerve energy is dissipated from
any cause (such as physical or mental excitement or bad habits) the body becomes weakened or
enervated. When the body is enervated, elimination is checked. This, in turn, results in a
retention of toxins in the blood--the condition which we speak of as toxemia. This state produces
a crisis which is nothing more than heroic or extraordinary efforts by the body to eliminate
waste or toxin from the blood. It is this crisis which we term disease. Such accumulation of
toxin when once established, will continue until nerve energy has been restored to normal by
removing the cause. So-called disease is nature's effort to eliminate toxin from the blood.
All so-called diseases are crises of toxemia." John H. Tilden, M.D., Toxemia Explained. [2]
Toxins are divided into two groups; namely exogenous, those formed in the alimentary canal
from fermentation and decomposition following imperfect or faulty digestion. If the fermentation
is of vegetables or fruit, the toxins are irritating, stimulating and enervating, but not so
dangerous or destructive to organic life as putrefaction, which is a fermentation set up in
nitrogenous matter--protein-bearing foods, but particularly animal foods. Endogenous toxins
are autogenerated. They are the waste products of metabolism. Dr. John. H. Tilden, Impaired
Health: Its Cause and Cure, 1921.

Suppose a fast-growing city is having traffic jams. "We don't like it!" protest the voters.
"Why are these problems happening?" asks the city council, trying to look like they are doing
something about it.

Experts then proffer answers. "Because there are too many cars," says the Get A Horse Society.
The auto makers suggest it is because there are uncoordinated traffic lights and because almost
all the businesses send their employees home at the same time. Easy to fix! And no reason whatsoever
to limit the number of cars. The asphalt industry suggests it is because the size and amount
of roads is inadequate.

What do we do then? Tax cars severely until few can afford them? Legislate opening and closing
hours of businesses to stagger to'ing and fro'ing? Hire a smarter municipal highway engineer
to synchronize the traffic lights? Build larger and more efficient streets? Demand that auto
companies make cars smaller so more can fit the existing roads? Tax gasoline prohibitively,
pass out and give away free bicycles in virtually unlimited quantities while simultaneously
building mass rail systems? What? Which?

When we settle on a solution we have simultaneously chosen what we consider the real, underlying
cause of the problem. If our chosen reason was the real reason. then our solution results in
a real cure. If we picked wrongly, our attempt at solution may result in no cure, or create
a worse situation than we had before.

The American Medical Association style of medicine (a philosophy I will henceforth call allopathic)
has a model that explains the causes of illness. It suggests that anyone who is sick is a victim.
Either they were attacked by a "bad" organism--virus, bacteria, yeast, pollen, cancer cell,
etc.--or they have a "bad" organ--liver, kidney, gall bladder, even brain. Or, the victim may
also have been cursed by bad genes. In any case, the cause of the disease is not the person
and the person is neither responsible for creating their own complaint nor is the victim capable
of making it go away. This institutionalized irresponsibility seems useful for both parties
to the illness, doctor and patient. The patient is not required to do anything about their
complaint except pay (a lot) and obediently follow the instructions of the doctor, submitting
unquestioningly to their drugs and surgeries. The physician then acquires a role of being considered
vital to the survival of others and thus obtains great status, prestige, authority, and financial
remuneration.

Perhaps because the sick person is seen to have been victimized, and it is logically impossible
to consider a victimizer as anything but something evil, the physician's cure is often violent,
confrontational. Powerful poisons are used to rejigger body chemistry or to arrest the multiplication
of disease bacteria or to suppress symptoms; if it is possible to sustain life without them,
"bad," poorly-functioning organs are cut out.

I've had a lot of trouble with the medical profession. Over the years doctors have made attempts
to put me in jail and keep me in fear. But they never stopped me. When I've had a client die
there has been an almost inevitable coroner's investigation, complete with detectives and the
sheriff. Fortunately, I practice in rural Oregon, where the local people have a deeply-held
belief in individual liberty and where the authorities know they would have had a very hard
time finding a jury to convict me. Had I chosen to practice with a high profile and had I located
Great Oaks School of Health in a major market area where the physicians were able to charge
top dollar, I probably would have spent years behind bars as did other heroes of my profession
such as Linda Hazzard and Royal Lee.

So I have acquired an uncomplimentary attitude about medical doctors, a viewpoint I am going
to share with you ungently, despite the fact that doing so will alienate some of my readers.
But I do so because most Americans are entirely enthralled by doctors, and this doctor-god
worship kills a lot of them.

However, before I get started on the medicos, let me state that one area exists where I do
have fundamental admiration for allopathic medicine. This is its handling of trauma. I agree
that a body can become the genuine victim of fast moving bullets. It can be innocently cut,
smashed, burned, crushed and broken. Trauma are not diseases and modern medicine has become
quite skilled at putting traumatized bodies back together. Genetic abnormality may be another
undesirable physical condition that is beyond the purview of natural medicine. However, the
expression of contra-survival genetics can often be controlled by nutrition. And the expression
of poor genetics often results from poor nutrition, and thus is similar to a degenerative disease
condition, and thus is well within the scope of natural medicine.

Today's suffering American public is firmly in the AMA's grip. People have been effectively
prevented from learning much about medical alternatives, have been virtually brainwashed by
clever media management that portrays other medical models as dangerous and/or ineffective.
Legislation influenced by the allopathic doctors' union, the American Medical Association,
severely limits or prohibits the practice of holistic health. People are repeatedly directed
by those with authority to an allopathic doctor whenever they have a health problem, question
or confusion. Other types of healers are considered to be at best harmless as long as they
confine themselves to minor complaints; at worst, when naturopaths, hygienists, or homeopaths
seek to treat serious disease conditions they are called quacks, accused of unlicensed practice
of medicine and if they persist or develop a broad, successful, high-profile and (this is the
very worst) profitable practice, they are frequently jailed.

Even licensed MDs are crushed by the authorities if they offer non-standard treatments. So
when anyone seeks an alternative health approach it is usually because their complaint has
already failed to vanish after consulting a whole series of allopathic doctors. This highly
unfortunate kind of sufferer not only has a degenerative condition to rectify, they may have
been further damaged by harsh medical treatments and additionally, they have a considerable
amount of brainwashing to overcome.

The AMA has succeeded at making their influence over information and media so pervasive that
most people do not even realize that the doctors' union is the source of their medical outlook.
Whenever an American complains of some malady, a concerned and honestly caring friend will
demand to know have they yet consulted a medical doctor. Failure to do so on one's own behalf
is considered highly irresponsible. Concerned relatives of seriously ill adults who decline
standard medical therapy may, with a great show of self-righteousness, have the sick person
judged mentally incompetent so that treatment can be forced upon them. When a parent fails
to seek standard medical treatment for their child, the adult may well be found guilty of criminal
negligence, raising the interesting issue of who "owns" the child, the parents or the State.

It is perfectly acceptable to die while under conventional medical care. Happens all the time,
in fact. But holistic alternatives are represented as stupidly risky, especially for serious
conditions such as cancer. People with cancer see no choice but to do chemotherapy, radiation,
and radical surgery because this is the current allopathic medical approach. On some level
people may know that these remedies are highly dangerous but they have been told by their attending
oncologist that violent therapies are their only hope of survival, however poor that may be.
If a cancer victim doesn't proceed immediately with such treatment their official prognosis
becomes worse by the hour. Such scare tactics are common amongst the medical profession, and
they leave the recipient so terrified that they meekly and obediently give up all self-determinism,
sign the liability waiver, and submit, no questions asked. Many then die after suffering intensely
from the therapy, long before the so-called disease could have actually caused their demise.
I will later offer alternative and frequently successful (but not guaranteed) approaches to
treating cancer that do not require the earliest-possible detection, surgery or poisons.

If holistic practitioners were to apply painful treatments like allopaths use, ones with such
poor statistical outcomes like allopaths use, there would most certainly be witch hunts and
all such irresponsible, greedy quacks would be safely imprisoned. I find it highly ironic that
for at least the past twenty five hundred years the basic principle of good medicine has been
that the treatment must first do no harm. This is such an obvious truism that even the AMA
doctors pledge to do the same thing when they take the Hippocratic Oath. Yet virtually every
action taken by the allopath is a conscious compromise between the potential harm of the therapy
and its potential benefit.

In absolute contrast, if a person dies while on a natural hygiene program, they died because
their end was inevitable no matter what therapy was attempted. Almost certainly receiving hygienic
therapy contributed to making their last days far more comfortable and relatively freer of
pain without using opiates. I have personally taken on clients sent home to die after they
had suffered everything the doctors could do to them, told they had only a few days, weeks,
or months to live. Some of these clients survived as a result of hygienic programs even at
that late date. And some didn't. The amazing thing was that any of them survived at all, because
the best time to begin a hygienic program is as early in the degenerative process as possible,
not after the body has been drastically weakened by invasive and toxic treatments. Later on,
I'll tell you about some of these cases.

Something I consider especially ironic is that when the patient of a medical doctor dies, it
is inevitably thought that the blessed doctor did all that could be done; rarely is any blame
laid. If the physician was especially careless or stupid, their fault can only result in a
civil suit, covered by malpractice insurance. But let a holistic practitioner treat a sick
person and have that person follow any of their suggestions or take any natural remedies and
have that person die or worsen and it instantly becomes the natural doctor's fault. Great blame
is placed and the practitioner faces inquests, grand juries, manslaughter charges, jail time
and civil suits that can't be insured against.

Allopathic medicine rarely makes a connection between the real causes of a degenerative or
infectious disease and its cure. The causes are usually considered mysterious: we don't know
why the pancreas is acting up, etc. The sick are sympathized with as victims who did nothing
to contribute to their condition. The cure is a highly technical battle against the illness,
whose weapons are defined in Latin and far beyond the understanding of a layperson.

Hygienic medicine presents an opposite view. To the naturopath, illness is not a perplexing
and mysterious occurrence over which you have no control or understanding. The causes of disease
are clear and simple, the sick person is rarely a victim of circumstance and the cure is obvious
and within the competence of a moderately intelligent sick person themselves to understand
and help administer. In natural medicine, disease is a part of living that you are responsible
for, and quite capable of handling.

Asserting that the sick are pitiable victims is financially beneficial to doctors. It makes
medical intervention seem a vital necessity for every ache and pain. It makes the sick become
dependent. I'm not implying that most doctors knowingly are conniving extortionists. Actually
most medical doctors are genuinely well-intentioned. I've also noticed that most medical doctors
are at heart very timid individuals who consider that possession of a MD degree and license
proves that they are very important, proves them to be highly intelligent, even makes them
fully qualified to pontificate on many subjects not related to medicine at all.

Doctors obtain an enormous sense of self-importance at medical school, where they proudly endured
the high pressure weeding out of any free spirit unwilling to grind away into the night for
seven or more years. Anyone incapable of absorbing and regurgitating huge amounts of rote information;
anyone with a disrespectful or irreverent attitude toward the senior doctor-gods who arrogantly
serve as med school professors, anyone like this was eliminated with especial rapidity. When
the thoroughly submissive, homogenized survivors are finally licensed, they assume the status
of junior doctor-gods.

But becoming an official medical deity doesn't permit one to create their own methods. No no,
the AMA's professional oversight and control system makes continued possession of the license
to practice (and the high income that usually comes with it) entirely dependent on continued
conformity to what is defined by the AMA as "correct practice." Any doctor who innovates beyond
strict limits or uses non-standard treatments is in real danger of losing their livelihood
and status.

Not only are licensed graduates of AMA-sanctioned medical schools kept on a very tight leash,
doctors of other persuasions who use other methods to heal the sick or help them heal themselves
are persecuted and prosecuted. Extension of the AMA's control through regulatory law and police
power is justified in the name of preventing quackery and making sure the ignorant and gullible
public receives only scientifically proven effective medical care.

Those on the other side of the fence view the AMA's oppression as an effective way to make
sure the public has no real choices but to use union doctors, pay their high fees and suffer
greatly by misunderstanding of the true cause of disease and its proper cure. If there are
any actual villains responsible for this suppressive tragedy some of them are to be found in
the inner core of the AMA, officials who may perhaps fully and consciously comprehend the suppressive
system they promulgate.

Hygienists usually inform the patient quite clearly and directly that the practitioner has
no ability to heal them or cure their condition and that no doctor of any type actually is
able to heal. Only the body can heal itself, something it is eager and usually very able to
do if only given the chance. One pithy old saying among hygienists goes, "if the body can't
heal itself, nothing can heal it." The primary job of the hygienic practitioner is to reeducate
the patient by conducting them through their first natural healing process. If this is done
well the sick person learns how to get out of their own body's way and permit its native healing
power to manifest. Unless later the victim of severe traumatic injury, never again will that
person need obscenely expensive medical procedures. Hygienists rarely make six figure incomes
from regular, repeat business.

This aspect of hygienic medicine makes it different than almost all the others, even most other
holistic methods. Hygiene is the only system that does not interpose the assumed healing power
of a doctor between the patient and wellness. When I was younger and less experienced I thought
that the main reason traditional medical practice did not stress the body's own healing power
and represented the doctor as a necessary intervention was for profit. But after practicing
for over twenty years I now understand that the last thing most people want to hear is that
their own habits, especially their eating patterns and food choices, are responsible for their
disease and that their cure is to only be accomplished through dietary reform, which means
unremittingly applied self-discipline.

One of the hardest things to ask of a person is to change a habit. The reason that AMA doctors
have most of the patients is they're giving the patients exactly what they want, which is to
be allowed to continue in their unconscious irresponsibility.

The Cause Of Disease

Ever since natural medicine arose in opposition to the violence of so-called scientific medicine,
every book on the subject of hygiene, once it gets past its obligatory introductions and warm
ups, must address The Cause of Disease. This is a required step because we see the cause of
disease and its consequent cure in a very different manner than the allopath. Instead of many
causes, we see one basic reason why. Instead of many unrelated cures, we have basically one
approach to fix all ills that can be fixed.

A beautiful fifty cent word that means a system for explaining something is paradigm, pronounced
para-dime. I am fond of this word because it admits the possibility of many differing yet equally
true explanations for the same reality. Of all available paradigms, Natural Hygiene suits me
best and has been the one I've used for most of my career.

The Natural Hygienist's paradigm for the cause of both degenerative and infectious disease
is called the Theory of Toxemia, or "self-poisoning."

Before explaining this theory it will help many readers if I digress a brief moment about the
nature and validity of alternative paradigms. Not too many decades ago, scientists thought
that reality was a singular, real, perpetual--that Natural Law existed much as a tree or a
rock existed. In physics, for example, the mechanics of Newton were considered capital "T"
True, the only possible paradigm. Any other view, not being True, was False. There was capital
"N" natural capital "L" law.

More recently, great uncertainty has entered science; it has become indisputable that a theory
or explanation of reality is only true only to the degree it seems to work; conflicting or
various explanations can all work, all can be "true." At least, this uncertainty has overtaken
the hard, physical sciences. It has not yet done so with medicine. The AMA is convinced (or
is working hard to convince everyone else) that its paradigm, the allopathic approach, is Truth,
is scientific, and therefore, anything else is Falsehood, is irresponsibility, is a crime against
the sick.

But the actual worth or truth of any paradigm is found not in its "reality," but in its utility.
Does an explanation or theory allow a person to manipulate experience and create a desired
outcome. To the extent a paradigm does that, it can be considered valuable. Judged by this
standard, the Theory of Toxemia must be far truer than the hodgepodge of psuedoscience taught
in medical schools. Keep that in mind the next time some officious medical doctor disdainfully
informs you that Theory of Toxemia was disproven in 1927 by Doctors Jeckel and Hyde.

Why People Get Sick

This is the Theory of Toxemia. A healthy body struggles continually to purify itself of poisons
that are inevitably produced while going about its business of digesting food, moving about,
and repairing itself. The body is a marvelous creation, a carbon, oxygen combustion machine,
constantly burning fuel, disposing of the waste products of combustion, and constantly rebuilding
tissue by replacing worn out, dead cells with new, fresh ones. Every seven years virtually
every cell in the body is replaced, some types of cells having a faster turnover rate than
others, which means that over a seven year period several hundred pounds of dead cells must
be digested (autolyzed) and eliminated. All by itself this would be a lot of waste disposal
for the body to handle. Added to that waste load are numerous mild poisons created during proper
digestion. And added to that can be an enormous burden of waste products created as the body's
attempts to digest the indigestible, or those tasty items I've heard called "fun food." Add
to that burden the ruinous effects of just plain overeating.

The waste products of digestion, of indigestion, of cellular breakdown and the general metabolism
are all poisonous to one degree or another. Another word for this is toxic. If these toxins
were allowed to remain and accumulate in the body, it would poison itself and die in agony.
So the body has a processing system to eliminate toxins. And when that system does break down
the body does die in agony, as from liver or kidney failure.

The organs of detoxification remove things from the body's system, but these two vital organs
should not be confused with what hygienists call the secondary organs of elimination, such
as the large intestine, lungs, bladder and the skin, because none of these other eliminatory
organs are supposed to purify the body of toxins. But when the body is faced with toxemia,
the secondary organs of elimination are frequently pressed into this duty and the consequences
are the symptoms we call illness.

The lungs are supposed to eliminate only carbon dioxide gas; not self-generated toxic substances.
The large intestine is supposed to pass only insoluble food solids (and some nasty stuff dumped
into the small intestine by the liver). Skin eliminates in the form of sweat (which contains
mineral salts) to cool the body, but the skin is not supposed to move toxins outside the system.
But when toxins are flowed out through secondary organs of elimination these areas become inflamed,
irritated, weakened. The results can be skin irritations, sinusitis or a whole host of other
"itises" depending on the area involved, bacterial or viral infections, asthma. When excess
toxemia is deposited instead of eliminated, the results can be arthritis if toxins are stored
in joints, rheumatism if in muscle tissues, cysts and benign tumors. And if toxins weaken the
body's immune response, cancer.

The liver and the kidneys, the two heroic organs of detoxification, are the most important
ones; these jointly act as filters to purify the blood. Hygienists pay a lot of attention to
these organs, the liver especially.

In an ideal world, the liver and kidneys would keep up with their job for 80 years or more
before even beginning to tire. In this ideal world, the food would of course, be very nutritious
and free of pesticide residues, the air and water would be pure, people would not denature
their food and turn it into junk. In this perfect world everyone would get moderate exercise
into old age, and live virtually without stress. In this utopian vision, the average healthy
productive life span would approach a century, entirely without using food supplements or vitamins.
In this world doctors would have next to no work other than repairing traumatic injuries, because
everyone would be healthy. But this is not the way it is.

In our less-than-ideal world virtually everything we eat is denatured, processed, fried, salted,
sweetened, preserved; thus more stress is placed on the liver and kidneys than nature designed
them to handle. Except for a few highly fortunate individuals blessed with an incredible genetic
endowment that permits them to live to age 99 on moose meat, well-larded white flour biscuits,
coffee with evaporated milk and sugar, brandy and cigarettes (we've all heard of someone like
this), most peoples' liver and kidneys begin to break down prematurely. Thus doctoring has
become a financially rewarding profession.

Most people overburden their organs of elimination by eating whatever they feel like eating
whenever they feel like it. Or, they irresponsibly eat whatever is served to them by a mother,
wife, institution or cook because doing so is easy or expected. Eating is a very habitual and
unconscious activity; frequently we continue to eat as adults whatever our mother fed us as
a child. I consider it unsurprising that when people develop the very same disease conditions
as their parents. they wrongly assume the cause is genetic inheritance, when actually it was
just because they were putting their feet under the same table as their parents.

Toxemia also comes about from following the wrongheaded recommendations of allopathic-inspired
nutritional texts and licensed dietitians. For example, people believe they should eat one
food from each of the four so-called basic food groups at each meal, thinking they are doing
the right thing for their health by having four colors of food on every plate, when they really
aren't. What they have actually done is force their bodies to attempt the digestion of indigestible
food combinations, and the resulting indigestion creates massive doses of toxins. I'll have
a lot more to say about that later when I discuss the art of food combining.

Table 1: The Actual Food Groups

Starches       Proteins          Fats    Sugars       Watery Vegetables
bread          meats             butter  honey        zucchini
potatoes       eggs              oils    fruit        green beans
noodles        fish              lard    sugar        tomatoes
manioc/yuca    most nuts         nuts    molassas     peppers
baked goods    dry beans         avocado malt syrup   eggplant
grains         nut butters               maple syrup  radish
winter squash  split peas                dried fruit  rutabaga
parsnips       lentils                   melons       turnips
sweet potatoes soybeans                  carrot juice Brussels sprouts
yams           tofu                      beet juice   celery
taro root      tempeh                                 cauliflower
plantains      wheat grass juice                      broccoli
beets          "green" drinks                         okra
               spirulina                              lettuce
               algae                                  endive
               yeast                                  cabbage
               dairy                                  carrots

Standard dietitians divide our foods into four basic food groups and recommend the ridiculous
practice of mixing them at every meal. This guarantees indigestion and lots of business for
the medical profession. This chart illustrates the actual food groups. It is usually a poor
practice to mix different foods from one group with those from another.

The Digestive Process

After we have eaten our four-color meal--often we do this in a hurry, without much chewing,
under a lot of stress, or in the presence of negative emotions--we give no thought to what
becomes of our food once it has been swallowed. We have been led to assume that anything put
in the mouth automatically gets digested flawlessly, is efficiently absorbed into the body
where it nourishes our cells, with the waste products being eliminated completely by the large
intestine. This vision of efficiency may exist in the best cases but for most there is many
a slip between the table and the toilet. Most bodies are not optimally efficient at performing
all the required functions, especially after years of poor living habits, stress, fatigue,
and aging. To the Natural Hygienist, most disease begins and ends with our food; most of our
healing efforts are focused on improving the process of digestion.

Digestion means chemically changing the foods we eat into substances that can pass into the
blood stream and circulate through the body where nutrition is used for bodily functions. Our
bodies use nutritional substances for fuel, for repair and rebuilding, and to conduct an incredibly
complex biochemistry. Scientists are still busily engaged in trying to understand the chemical
mysteries of our bodies. But as bewildering as the chemistry of life is, the chemistry of digestion
itself is actually a relatively simple process, and one doctors have had a fairly good understanding
of for many decades.

Though relatively straightforward, a lot can and does go wrong with digestion. The body breaks
down foods with a series of different enzymes that are mixed with food at various points as
it passes from mouth to stomach to small intestine. An enzyme is a large, complex molecule
that has the ability to chemically change other large, complex molecules without being changed
itself. Digestive enzymes perform relatively simple functions--breaking large molecules into
smaller parts that can dissolve in water.

Digestion starts in the mouth when food is mixed with ptyalin, an enzyme secreted by the salivary
glands. Pylatin converts insoluble starches into simple sugars. If the digestion of starchy
foods is impaired, the body is less able to extract the energy contained in our foods, while
far worse from the point of view of the genesis of diseases, undigested starches pass through
the stomach and into the gut where they ferment and thereby create an additional toxic burden
for the liver to process. And fermenting starches also create gas.

As we chew our food it gets mixed with saliva; as we continue to chew the starches in the food
are converted into sugar. There is a very simple experiment you can conduct to prove to yourself
how this works. Get a plain piece of bread, no jam, no butter, plain, and without swallowing
it or allowing much of it to pass down the throat, begin to chew it until it seems to literally
dissolve. Pylatin works fast in our mouths so you may be surprised at how sweet the taste gets.
As important as chewing is, I have only run into about one client in a hundred that actually
makes an effort to consciously chew their food.

Horace Fletcher, whose name has become synonymous with the importance of chewing food well
(Fletcherizing), ran an experiment on a military population in Canada. He required half his
experimental group to chew thoroughly, and the other half to gulp things down as usual. His
study reports significant improvement in the overall health and performance of the group that
persistently chewed. Fletcher's report recommended that every mouthful be chewed 50 times for
half a minute before being swallowed. Try it, you might be very surprised at what a beneficial
effect such a simple change in your approach to eating can make. Not only will you have less
intestinal gas, if overweight you will probably find yourself getting smaller because your
blood sugar will elevate quicker as you are eating and thus your sense of hunger will go away
sooner. If you are very thin and have difficulty gaining weight you may find that the pounds
go on easier because chewing well makes your body more capable of actually assimilating the
calories you are consuming.

A logical conclusion from this data is that anything that would prevent or reduce chewing would
be unhealthful. For example, food eaten when too hot tends to be gulped down. The same tends
to happen when food is seasoned with fresh Jalapeno or habaneo peppers. People with poor teeth
should blend or mash starchy foods and then gum them thoroughly to mix them with saliva. Keep
in mind that even so-called protein foods such as beans often contain large quantities of starches
and the starch portion of protein foods is also digested in the mouth.

Once the food is in the stomach, it is mixed with hydrochloric acid, secreted by the stomach
itself, and pepsin, an enzyme. Together these break proteins down into water-soluble amino
acids. To accomplish this the stomach muscles agitate the food continuously, somewhat like
a washing machine. This extended churning forms a kind of ball in the stomach called a bolis.

Many things can and frequently do go wrong at this stage of the digestive process. First, the
stomach's very acid environment inactivates pylatin, so any starch not converted to sugar in
the mouth does not get properly processed thereafter. And the most dangerous misdigetion comes
from the sad fact that cooked proteins are relatively indigestible no matter how strong the
constitution, no matter how concentrated the stomach acid or how many enzymes present. It is
quite understandable to me that people do not wish to accept this fact. After all, cooked proteins
are so delicious, especially cooked red meats and the harder, more flavorful fishes.

To appreciate this, consider how those enzymes that digest proteins work. A protein molecule
is a large, complex string of amino acids, each linked to the next in a specific order. Suppose
there are only six amino acids: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. So a particular (imaginary) protein could
be structured: 1, 4, 4, 6, 2, 3, 5, 4, 2, 3, 6, 1, 1, 2, 3, etc. Thus you should see that by
combining a limited number of amino acids there can be a virtually infinite number of proteins.

But proteins are rarely water soluble. As I said a few paragraphs back, digestion consists
of rendering insoluble foods into water-soluble substances so they can pass into the blood
stream and be used by the body's chemistry. To make them soluble, enzymes break down the proteins,
separating the individual amino acids one from the other, because amino acids are soluble.
Enzymes that digest proteins work as though they are mirror images of a particular amino acid.
They fit against a particular amino acid like a key fits into a lock. Then they break the bonds
holding that amino acid to others in the protein chain, and then, what I find so miraculous
about this process, the enzyme is capable of finding yet another amino acid to free, and then
yet another.

So with sufficient churning in an acid environment, with enough time (a few hours), and enough
enzymes, all the recently eaten proteins are decomposed into amino acids and these amino acids
pass into the blood where the body recombines them into structures it wants to make. And we
have health. But when protein chains are heated, the protein structures are altered into physical
shapes that the enzymes can't "latch" on to. The perfect example of this is when an egg is
fried. The eggwhite is albumen, a kind of protein. When it is heated, it shrivels up and gets
hard. While raw and liquid, it is easily digestable. When cooked, largely indigestable.

Stress also inhibits the churning action in the stomach so that otherwise digestible foods
may not be mixed efficiently with digestive enzymes. For all these reasons, undigested proteins
may pass into the gut.

Along with undigested starches. When starches convert best to sugars under the alkaline conditions
found in the mouth. Once they pass into the acid stomach starch digestion is not as efficient.
If starches reach the small intestine they are fermented by yeasts. The products of starch
fermentation are only mildly toxic. The gases produced by yeast fermentations usually don't
smell particularly bad; bodies that regularly contain starch fermentation usually don't smell
particularly bad either. In otherwise healthy people it can take many years of exposure to
starch fermentation toxins to produce a life-threatening disease.

But undigested proteins aren't fermented by yeasts, they putrefy in the gut (are attacked by
anaerobic bacteria). Many of the waste products of anaerobic putrefaction are highly toxic
and evil smelling; when these toxins are absorbed through the small or large intestines they
are very irritating to the mucous membranes, frequently contributing to or causing cancer of
the colon. Protein putrefaction may even cause psychotic symptoms in some individuals. Meat
eaters often have a very unpleasant body odor even when they are not releasing intestinal gasses.

Adding a heavy toxic burden from misdigested foods to the normal toxic load a body already
has to handle creates a myriad of unpleasant symptoms, and greatly shortens life. But misdigestion
also carries with it a double whammy; fermenting and/or putrefying foods immediately interfere
with the functioning of another vital organ--the large intestine--and cause constipation.

Most people don't know what the word constipation really means. Not being able to move one's
bowels is only the most elementary type of constipation. A more accurate definition of constipation
is "the retention of waste products in the large intestine beyond the time that is conducive
to health." Properly digested food is not sticky and exits the large intestine quickly. But
improperly digested food (or indigestible food) gradually coats the large intestine, making
an ever-thicker lining that interferes with the intestine's functioning. Far worse, this coating
steadily putrefies, creating additional highly-potent toxins. Lining the colon with undigested
food can be compared to the mineral deposits filling in the inside of an old water pipe, gradually
choking off the flow. In the colon, this deposit can become rock-hard, just like water pipe scale.

Since the large intestine is also an organ that removes moisture and water-soluble minerals
from the food and moves them into the blood stream, when the large intestine is lined with
putrefying undigested food waste, the toxins of this putrefaction are also steadily moved into
the bloodstream and place an even greater burden on the liver and kidneys, accelerating their
breakdown, accelerating the aging process and contributing to a lot of interesting and unpleasant
symptoms that keep doctors busy and financially solvent. I'll have quite a bit more to say
about colon cleansing later.

The Progress Of Disease: Irritation, Enervation, Toxemia

Disease routinely lies at the end of a three-part chain that goes: irritation or sub-clinical
malnutrition, enervation, toxemia. Irritations are something the person does to themselves
or something that happens around them. Stresses, in other words.

Mental stressors include strong negative emotional states such as anger, fear, resentment,
hopelessness, etc. Behind most diseases it is common to find a problematic mind churning in
profound confusion, one generated by a character that avoids responsibility. There may also
be job stress or ongoing hostile relationships, often within the family.

Indigestible foods and misdigestion are also stressful irritations, as are mild recreational
poisons such as "soft" drugs, tobacco and alcohol. Opiates are somewhat more toxifying, primarily
because they paralyze the gut and induce profound constipation. Stimulants like cocaine and
amphetamines are the most damaging recreational drugs; these are highly toxic and rapidly shorten
life.

Repeated irritations and/or malnutrition eventually produce enervation. The old-time hygienists
defined enervation as a lack of or decline in an unmeasurable phenomena, "nerve energy." They
viewed the functioning of vital organs as being controlled by or driven by nerve force, sometimes
called life force or elan vital. Whatever this vital force actually is, it can be observed
and subjectively measured by comparing one person with another. Some people are full of it
and literally sparkle with overflowing energy. Beings like this make everyone around them feel
good because they somehow momentarily give energy to those endowed with less. Others possess
very little and dully plod through life.

As vital force drops, the overall efficiency of all the body's organs correspondingly decline.
The pancreas creates less digestive enzymes; the thymus secretes less of its vital hormones
that mobilize the immune system; the pituitary makes less growth hormone so the overall repair
and rebuilding of cells and tissues slows correspondingly; and so forth. It does not really
matter if there is or is not something called nerve energy that can or cannot be measured in
a laboratory. Vital force is observable to many people. However, it is measurable by laboratory
test that after repeated irritation the overall functioning of the essential organs and glands
does deteriorate.

Enervation may develop so gradually that it progresses below the level of awareness of the
person, or times of increased enervation can be experienced as a complaint--as a lack of energy,
as tiredness, as difficulties digesting, as a new inability to handle a previously-tolerated
insult like alcohol.

Long-term consumption of poor-quality food causes enervation. The body is a carbon/oxygen engine
designed to run efficiently only on highly nutritious food and this aspect of human genetic
programming cannot be changed significantly by adaptation. Given enough generations a human
gene pool can adapt to extracting its nutrition from a different group of foods. For example,
a group of isolated Fijians currently enjoying long healthy lives eating a diet of seafoods
and tropical root crops could suddenly be moved to the highlands of Switzerland and forced
to eat the local fare or starve. But most of the Fijians would not have systems adept at making
those enzymes necessary to digest cows milk. So the transplanted Fijians would experience many
generations of poorer health and shorter life spans until their genes had been selected for
adaptation to the new dietary. Ultimately their descendants could become uniformly healthy
on rye bread and dairy products just like the highland Swiss were.

However, modern industrial farming and processing of foodstuffs significantly contributes to
mass, widespread enervation in two ways. Humans will probably adjust to the first; the second
will, I'm sure, prove insurmountable. First, industrially processed foods are a recent invention
and our bodies have not yet adapted to digesting them. In a few more generations humans might
be able to accomplish that and public health could improve on factory food. In the meanwhile,
the health of humans has declined. Industrially farmed foods have also been lowered in nutritional
content compared to what food could be. I gravely doubt if any biological organism can ever
adapt to an overall dietary that contains significantly lowered levels of nutrition. I will
explain this more fully in the chapter on diet.

Secondary Eliminations Are Disease

However the exact form the chain from irritation or malnutrition to enervation progresses,
the ultimate result is an increased level of toxemia, placing an eliminatory burden on the
liver and kidneys in excess of their ability. Eventually these organs begin to weaken. Decline
of liver and/or kidney function threatens the stability and purity of blood chemistry. Rather
than risk complete incapacitation or death from self-poisoning, the overloaded, toxic body,
guided by its genetic predisposition and the nature of the toxins (what was eaten, in what
state of stress), cleverly channels surplus toxins into its first line of defense--alternative
or secondary elimination systems.

Most non-life-threatening yet highly annoying disease conditions originate as secondary eliminations.
For example, the skin was designed to sweat, elimination of fluids. Toxemia is often pushed
out the sweat glands and is recognized as an unpleasant body odor. A healthy, non-toxic body
smells sweet and pleasant (like a newborn baby's body) even after exercise when it has been
sweating heavily. Other skin-like organs such as the sinus tissues, were designed to secrete
small amounts of mucus for lubrication. The lungs eliminate used air and the tissues are lubricated
with mucus-like secretions too. These secretions are types of eliminations, but are not intended
for the elimination of toxins. When toxins are discharged in mucus through tissues not designed
to handle them, the tissues themselves become irritated, inflamed, weakened and thus much more
subject to bacterial or viral infection. Despite this danger, not eliminating surplus toxins
carries with it the greater penalty of serious disability or death. Because of this liability,
the body, in its wisdom, initially chooses secondary elimination routes as far from vital tissues
and organs as possible. Almost inevitably the skin or skin-like mucus membranes such as the
sinuses, or lung tissues become the first line of defense.

Thus the average person's disease history begins with colds, flu, sinusitis, bronchitis, chronic
cough, asthma, rashes, acne, eczema, psoriasis. If these secondary eliminations are suppressed
with drugs (either from the medical doctor or with over the counter remedies), if the eating
or lifestyle habits that created the toxemia are not changed, or if the toxic load increases
beyond the limits of this technique, the body then begins to store toxins in fat or muscle
tissues or the joint cavities, overburdens the kidneys, creates cysts, fibroids, and benign
tumors to store those toxins. If toxic overload continues over a longer time the body will
eventually have to permit damages to vital tissues, and life-threatening conditions develop.

Hygienic doctors always stress that disease is remedial effort. Illness comes from the body's
best attempt to lighten its toxic load without immediately threatening its survival. The body
always does the very best it can to remedy toxemia given its circumstances, and it should be
commended for these efforts regardless of how uncomfortable they might be to the person inhabiting
the body. Symptoms of secondary elimination are actually a positive thing because they are
the body's efforts to lessen a dangerously toxic condition. Secondary eliminations shouldn't
be treated immediately with a drug to suppress the process. If you squelch the bodies best
and least-life-threatening method to eliminate toxins, the body will ultimately have to resort
to another more dangerous though probably less immediately uncomfortable channel.

The conventional medical model does not view disease this way and sees the symptoms of secondary
elimination as the disease itself. So the conventional doctor takes steps to halt the body's
remedial efforts, thus stopping the undesirable symptom and then, the symptom gone, proclaims
the patient cured. Actually, the disease is the cure.

A common pattern of symptom suppression under the contemporary medical model is this progression:
treat colds with antihistamines until the body gets influenza; suppress a flu repeatedly with
antibiotics and eventually you get pneumonia. Or, suppress eczema with cortisone ointment repeatedly,
and eventually you develop kidney disease. Or, suppress asthma with bronkiodialators and eventually
you need cortisone to suppress it. Continue treating asthma with steroids and you destroy the
adrenals; now the body has become allergic to virtually everything.

The presence of toxins in an organ of secondary elimination is frequently the cause of infection.
Sinuses and lungs, inflamed by secondary eliminations, are attacked by viruses or bacteria;
infectious diseases of the skin result from pushing toxins out of the skin. More generalized
infections also result from toxemia; in this case the immune system has become compromised
and the body is overwhelmed by an organism that it normally should be able to resist easily.
The wise cure of infections is not to use antibiotics to suppress the bacteria while simultaneously
whipping the immune system; most people, including most medical doctors, do not realize that
antibiotics also goose the immune system into super efforts. But when one chooses to whip a
tired horse, eventually the exhausted animal collapses and cannot rise again no matter how
vigorously it is beaten. The wise cure is to detoxify the body, a step that simultaneously
eliminates secondary eliminations and rebuilds the immune system.

The wise way to deal with the body's eliminative efforts is to accept that disease is an opportunity
to pay the piper for past indiscretions. You should go to bed, rest, and drink nothing but
water or dilute juice until the condition has passed. This allows the body to conserve its
vital energy, direct this energy toward healing the disordered body part, and catch up on its
waste disposal. In this way you can help your body, be in harmony with its efforts instead
of working against it which is what most people do.

Please forgive another semi-political polemic here, but in my practice I have often been amazed
to hear my clients complain that they have not the time nor the ability to be patient with
their body, to rest it through an illness because they have a job they can't afford to miss
or responsibilities they can't put down. This is a sad commentary on the supposed wealth and
prosperity of the United States. In our country most people are enslaved by their debts, incurred
because they had been enthralled by the illusion of happiness secured by the possession of
material things. Debt slaves believe they cannot miss a week of work. People who feel they
can't afford to be sick think they can afford to live on pills. So people push through their
symptoms by sheer grit for years on end, and keep that up until their exhausted horse of a
body breaks down totally and they find themselves in the hospital running up bills to the tune
of several thousand dollars a day. But these very same people do not think they can afford
the loss of a few hundred dollars of current income undertaking some virtually harmless preventative
maintenance on their bodies.

Given half a chance the body will throw off toxic overburdens and cleanse itself. And once
the body has been cleansed of toxemia, disagreeable symptoms usually cease. This means that
to make relatively mild but unwanted symptoms lessen and ultimately stop it is merely necessary
to temporarily cut back food intake, eating only what does not cause toxemia. These foods I
classify as cleansing, such as raw fruits and vegetables and their juices. If the symptoms
are extreme, are perceived as overwhelming or are actually life-threatening, detoxification
can be speeded up by dropping back to only dilute raw juices or vegetable broth made only from
greens, without eating the solids. In the most extreme cases hygienists use their most powerful
medicine: a long fast on herb teas, or just water. I will have a lot to say about fasting, later.

When acutely ill, the most important thing to do is to just get out of the body's way, and
let it heal itself. In our ignorance we are usually our own worst enemy in this regard. We
have been very successfully conditioned to think that all symptoms are bad. But I know from
experience that people can and do learn a new way of viewing the body, an understanding that
puts them at cause over their own body. It allows you to be empowered in one more area of life
instead of being dependent and at the mercy of other peoples decisions about your body.

Finally, and this is why natural medicine is doubly unpopular, to prevent the recurrence of
toxemia and acute disease states, person must discover what they are doing wrong and change
their life. Often as not this means elimination of the person's favorite (indigestible) foods
and/or (stress-producing) bad habits. Naturally, I will have a lot more to say about this later,
too.

Chapter Three

Fasting

From The Hygienic Dictionary

Cure. [1] There is no "cure" for disease; fasting is not a cure. Fasting facilitates natural
healing processes. Foods do not cure. Until we have discarded our faith in cures, there can
be no intelligent approach to the problems presented by suffering and no proper use of foods
by those who are ill. Herbert Shelton, The Hygienic System, v. 3, Fasting and Sunbathing. [2]
All cure starts from within out and from the head down and in reverse order as the symptoms
have appeared. Hering's Law of Cure. [3] Life is made up of crises. The individual establishes
a standard of health peculiarly his own, which must vary from all other standards as greatly
as his personality varies from others. The individual standard may be such as to favor the
development of indigestion, catarrh, gout, rheumatic and glandular inflammations, tubercular
developments, congestions, sluggish secretions and excretions, or inhibitions of various functions,
both mental and physical, wherever the environmental or habit strain is greater than usual.
The standard of resistance may be opposed so strenuously by habits and unusual physical agencies--that
the body breaks down under the strain. This is a crisis. Appetite fails, discomfort or pain
forces rest, and, as a result of physiological rest (fasting) and physical rest (rest from
daily work and habits), a readjustment takes place, and the patient is "cured." This is what
the profession and the people call a cure, and it is for the time being--until an unusual enervation
is brought on from accident or dissipation; then another crisis. These crises are the ordinary
sickness of all communities-- all catalogued diseases. When the cold is gone or the hay-fever
fully relieved, it does not mean the patient is cured. Indeed, he is as much diseased as before
he suffered the attack--the crisis--and he never will be cured until the habits of life that
keep up toxin poisoning are corrected. To recover from a crisis is not a cure; the tendency
is back to the individual standard; hence all crises are self-limited, unless nature by maltreatment
is prevented from reacting. All so-called healing systems ride to glory on the backs of self-limited
crises, and the self-deluded doctors and their credulous clients, believe, when the crises
are past, that a cure has been wrought, whereas the real truth is that the treatment may have
delayed reaction. This is largely true of anything that has been done except rest. A cure consists
in changing the manner of living to such a rational standard that full resistance and a balanced
metabolism is established. I suppose it is not quite human to expect those of a standardized
school of healing to give utterance to discovered truth which, if accepted by the people, would
rob them of the glory of being curers of disease. Indeed, nature, and nature only, cures; and
as for crises, they come and go, whether or not there is a doctor or healer within a thousand
miles. Dr. John. H. Tilden, Impaired Health: Its Cause and Cure, 1921.

The accelerated healing process that occurs during fasting can scarcely be believed by a person
who has not fasted. No matter how gifted the writer, the experiential reality of fasting cannot
be communicated. The great novelist Upton Sinclair wrote a book about fasting and it failed
to convince the multitudes. But once a person has fasted long enough to be certain of what
their own body can do to fix itself, they acquire a degree of independence little known today.
Many of those experienced with fasting no longer dread being without health insurance and feel
far less need for a doctor or of having a regular checkup. They know with certainty that if
something degenerates in their body, their own body can fix it by itself.

Like Upton Sinclair and many others who largely failed before me, I am going to try to convince
you of the virtues of fasting by urging you to try fasting yourself. If you will but try you
will be changed for the better for the rest of your life. If you do not try, you will never Know.

To prompt your first step on this health-freedom road, I ask you to please carefully consider
the importance of this fact: the body's routine energy budget includes a very large allocation
for the daily digestion and assimilation of the food you eat. You may find my estimate surprising,
but about one-third of a fairly sedentary person's entire energy consumption goes into food
processing. Other uses for the body's energy include the creation or rebuilding of tissues,
detoxification, moving (walking, running, etc.), talking, producing hormones, etc. Digestion
is one aspect of the body's efforts that we can readily control, it is the key to having or
losing health.

The Effort Of Digestion

Digestion is a huge, unappreciated task, unappreciated because few of us are aware of its happening
in the same way we are aware of making efforts to use our voluntary muscles when working or
exercising. Digestion begins in the mouth with thorough chewing. If you don't think chewing
is effort, try making coleslaw in your own mouth. Chew up at least half a big head of cabbage
and three big carrots that have not been shredded. Grind each bit until it liquefies and has
been thoroughly mixed with saliva. I guarantee that if you even finish the chore your jaw will
be tired and you will have lost all desire to eat anything else, especially if it requires chewing.

Making the saliva you just used while chewing the cabbage is by itself, a huge and unappreciated
chemical effort.

Once in the stomach, chewed food has to be churned in order to mix it with hydrochloric acid,
pepsin, and other digestive enzymes. Manufacturing these enzymes is also considerable work!
Churning is even harder work than chewing but normally, people are unaware of its happening.
While the stomach is churning (like a washing machine) a large portion of the blood supply
is redirected from the muscles in the extremities to the stomach and intestines to aid in this
process. Anyone who has tried to go for a run, or take part in any other strenuous physical
activity immediately after a large meal feels like a slug and wonders why they just can't make
their legs move the way they usually do. So, to assist the body while it is digesting, it is
wise to take a siesta as los Latinos do instead of expecting the blood to be two places at
once like los norteamericanos.

After the stomach is through churning, the partially digested food is moved into the small
intestine where it is mixed with more pancreatin secreted by the pancreas, and with bile from
the gall bladder. Pancreatin further solubilizes proteins. Bile aids in the digestion of fatty
foods. Manufacturing bile and pancreatic enzymes is also a lot of effort. Only after the carbohydrates
(starches and sugars), proteins and fats have been broken down into simpler water soluble food
units such as simple sugars, amino acids and fatty acids, can the body pass these nutrients
into the blood thorough the little projections in the small intestines called villi.

The leftovers, elements of the food that can't be solubilized plus some remaining liquids,
are passed into the large intestine. There, water and the vital mineral salts dissolved in
that water, are extracted and absorbed into the blood stream through thin permeable membranes.
Mucous is also secreted in the large intestine to facilitate passage of the dryish remains.
This is an effort. (Intestinal mucous can become a route of secondary elimination, especially
during fasting. While fasting, it is essential to take steps to expel toxic mucous in the colon
before the poisons are re adsorbed.) The final residue, now called fecal matter, is squeezed
along the length of the large intestines and passes out the rectum.

If all the digestive processes have been efficient there now are an abundance of soluble nutrients
for the blood stream to distribute to hungry cells throughout the body. It is important to
understand the process at least on the level of oversimplification just presented in order
to begin to understand better how health is lost or regained through eating, digestion, and
elimination. And most importantly, through not eating.

How Fasting Heals

Its an old hygienic maxim that the doctor does not heal, the medicines do not heal, only the
body heals itself. If the body can't heal then nothing can heal it. The body always knows best
what it needs and what to do.

But healing means repairing damaged organs and tissues and this takes energy, while a sick
body is already enervated, weakened and not coping with its current stressors. If the sick
person could but somehow increase the body's energy resources sufficiently, then a slowly healing
body could heal faster while a worsening one, or one that was failing or one that was not getting
better might heal.

Fasting does just that. To whatever degree food intake is reduced the body's digestive workload
is proportionately reduced and it will naturally, and far more intelligently than any physician
could order, redirect energy to wherever it decides that energy is most needed. A fasting body
begins accessing nutritional reserves (vitamins and minerals) previously stored in the tissues
and starts converting body fat into sugar for energy fuel. During a time of water fasting,
sustaining the body's entire energy and nutritional needs from reserves and fat does require
a small effort, but far less effort than eating. I would guess a fasting body used about five
percent of its normal daily energy budget on nutritional concerns rather than the 33 percent
it needs to process new food. Thus, water fasting puts something like 28 percent more energy
at the body's disposal. This is true even though the water faster may feel weak, energyless.

I would worry if sick or toxic fasters did not complain about their weakness. They should expect
to feel energyless. In fact, the more internal healing and detoxification the body requires,
the tireder the faster feels because the body is very hard at work internally. A great deal
of the body's energy will go toward boosting the immune system if the problem is an infection.
Liberated energy can also be used for healing damaged parts, rebuilding failing organs, for
breaking down and eliminating deposits of toxic materials. Only after most of the healing has
occurred does a faster begin to feel energetic again. Don't expect to feel anything but tired
and weak.

The only exception to this would be a person who has already significantly detoxified and healed
their body by previous fasting, or the rare soul that has gone from birth through adulthood
enjoying extraordinarily good nutrition and without experiencing the stressors of improper
digestion. When one experienced faster I know finds himself getting "run down" or catching
a cold, he quits eating until he feels really well. Instead of feeling weak as most fasters
do, as each of the first four or five days of water fasting pass, he experiences a resurgence
of more and more energy. On the first fasting day he would usually feel rotten, which was why
he started fasting in the first place. On the second fasting day he'd feel more alert and catch
up on his paper work. By his third day on only water he would be out doing hard physical chores
like cutting the grass, splitting wood or weeding his vegetable garden. Day four would also
be an energetic one, but if the fast extended beyond that, lowering blood sugar would begin
to make him tired and he'd feel forced to begin laying down.

After a day of water fasting the average person's blood sugar level naturally drops; making
a faster feel somewhat tired and "spacey," so a typical faster usually begins to spend much
more time resting, further reducing the amount of energy being expended on moving the body
around, serendipitously redirecting even more of the body's energy budget toward healing. By
the end of five or six days on water, I estimate that from 40 to 50 percent of the body's available
energy is being used for healing, repair and detoxification.

The amount of work that a fasting body's own healing energy can do and what it feels like to
be there when it is happening is incredible. But you can't know it if you haven't felt it.
So hardly anyone in our present culture knows.

As I mentioned in the first chapter, at Great Oaks School I apprenticed myself to the traveling
masters of virtually every system of natural healing that existed during the '70s. I observed
every one of them at work and tried most of them on my clients. After all that I can say with
experience that I am not aware of any other healing tool that can be so effective as the fast.

Essentials of a Successful, Safe Fast

1. Fast in a bright airy room, with exceptionally good ventilation, because fasters not only
need a lot of fresh air; their bodies give off powerfully offensive odors. 2. Sun bathe if
possible in warm climates for 10 to 20 minutes in the morning before the sun gets too strong.
3. Scrub/massage the skin with a dry brush, stroking toward the heart, followed by a warm water
shower two to four times a day to assist the skin in eliminating toxins. If you are too weak
to do this, have an assisted bed bath. 4. Have two enemas daily for the first week of a fast
and then once daily until the fast is terminated. 5. Insure a harmonious environment with supportive
people or else fast alone if you are experienced. Avoid well-meaning interference or anxious
criticism at all cost. The faster becomes hypersensitive to others' emotions. 6. Rest profoundly
except for a short walk of about 200 yards morning and night. 7. Drink water! At least three
quarts every day. Do not allow yourself to become dehydrated! 8. Control yourself! Break a
long fast on diluted non-sweet fruit juice such as grapefruit juice, sipped a teaspoon at a
time, no more than eight ounces at a time no oftener than every 2 or 3 hours. The second day
you eat, add small quantities of fresh juicy fruit to the same amount of juice you took the
day before no oftener than every 3 hours. By small quantities I mean half an apple or the equivalent.
On the third day of eating, add small quantities of vegetable juice and juicy vegetables such
as tomatoes and cucumbers. Control yourself! The second week after eating resumed add complex
vegetable salads plus more complex fruit salads. Do not mix fruit and vegetables at meals.
The third week add raw nuts and seeds no more than 1/2 ounce three times daily. Add 1/4 avocado
daily. Fourth week increase to 3 ounces of raw soaked nuts and seeds daily and 1/2 avocado
daily. Cooked grains may also be added, along with steamed vegetables and vegetable soups.

The Prime Rules Of Fasting

Another truism of natural hygiene is that we dig our own graves with our teeth. It is sad but
true that almost all eat too much quantity of too little quality. Dietary excesses are the
main cause of death in North America. Fasting balances these excesses. If people were to eat
a perfect diet and not overeat, fasting would rarely be necessary.

There are two essential rules of fasting. If these rules are ignored or broken, fasting itself
can be life threatening. But if the rules are followed, fasting presents far less risk than
any other important medical procedure with a far greater likelihood of a positive outcome.
And let me stress here, there is no medical procedure without risk. Life itself is fraught
with risk, it is a one-way ticket from birth to death, with no certainty as to when the end
of the line will be reached. But in my opinion, when handling degenerative illness and infections,
natural hygiene and fasting usually offer the best hope of healing with the least possible risk.

The first vital concern is the duration of the fast. Two eliminatory processes go on simultaneously
while fasting. One is the dissolving and elimination of the excess, toxic or dysfunctional
deposits in the body, and second process, the gradual exhaustion of the body's stored nutritional
reserves. The fasting body first consumes those parts of the body that are unhealthy; eventually
these are all gone. Simultaneously the body uses up stored fat and other reserve nutritional
elements. A well-fed reasonably healthy body usually has enough stored nutrition to fast for
quite a bit longer than it takes to "clean house."

While house cleaning is going on the body uses its reserves to rebuild organs and rejuvenate
itself. Rebuilding starts out very slowly but the repairs increase at an ever-accelerating
rate. The "overhaul" can last only until the body has no more reserves. Because several weeks
of fasting must pass by before the "overhaul" gets going full speed, it is wise to continue
fasting as long as possible so as to benefit from as much rejuvenation as possible.

It is best not to end the fast before all toxic or dysfunctional deposits are eliminated, or
before the infection is overcome, or before the cause for complaint has been healed. The fast
must be ended when most of the body's essential-to-life stored nutritional reserves are exhausted.
If the fast goes beyond this point, starvation begins. Then, fasting-induced organic damage
can occur, and death can follow, usually several weeks later. Almost anyone not immediately
close to death has enough stored nutrition to water fast for ten days to two weeks. Most reasonably
healthy people have sufficient reserves to water fast for a month. Later I will explain how
a faster can somewhat resupply their nutritional reserves while continuing to fast, and thus
safely extend the fasting period.

The second essential concern has to do with adjusting the intensity of the fast. Some individuals
are so toxic that the waste products released during a fast are too strong, too concentrated
or too poisonous for the organs of elimination to handle safely, or to be handled within the
willingness of the faster to tolerate the discomforts that toxic releases generate. The highly-toxic
faster may even experience life-threatening symptoms such as violent asthma attacks. This kind
of faster has almost certainly been dangerously ill before the fast began. Others, though not
dangerously sick prior to fasting, may be nearly as toxic and though not in danger of death,
they may not be willing to tolerate the degree of discomfort fasting can trigger. For this
reason I recommend that if at all possible, before undertaking a fast the person eat mostly
raw foods for two months and clean up all addictions. This will give the body a chance to detoxify
significantly before the water fast is started, and will make water fasting much more comfortable.
Seriously, dangerously ill people should only fast with experienced guidance, so the rapidity
of their detoxification process may be adjusted to a lower level if necessary.

A fast of only one week can accomplish a significant amount of healing. Slight healing does
occur on shorter fasts, but it is much more difficult to see or feel the results. Many people
experience rapid relief from acute headache pain or digestive distress such as gas attacks,
mild gallbladder pain, stomach aches, etc., after only one day's abstention from food. In one
week of fasting a person can relieve more dangerous conditions such as arthritic pain, rheumatism,
kidney pain, and many symptoms associated with allergic reactions. But even more fasting time
is generally needed for the body to completely heal serious diseases. That's because eliminating
life-threatening problems usually involve rebuilding organs that aren't functioning too well.
Major rebuilding begins only after major detoxification has been accomplished, and this takes time.

Yes, even lost organ function can be partially or completely restored by fasting. Aging and
age-related degeneration is progressive, diminishing organ functioning. Organs that make digestive
enzymes secrete less enzymes. The degenerated immune system loses the ability to mobilize as
effectively when the body is attacked. Liver and kidney efficiency declines. The adrenals tire,
becoming incapable of dumping massive amounts of stress-handling hormones or of repeating that
effort time after time without considerable rest in between. The consequences of these inter-dependent
deterioration's is a cascade of deterioration that contributes to even more rapid deterioration's.
The name for this cascading process is aging. Its inevitable result--death.

Fasting can, to a degree, reverse aging. Because fasting improves organ functioning, it can
slow down aging.

Fasters are often surprised that intensified healing can be uncomfortable. They have been programmed
by our culture and by allopathic doctors to think that if they are doing the right thing for
their bodies they should feel better immediately. I wish it weren't so, but most people have
to pay the piper for their dietary indiscretions and other errors in living. There will be
aches and minor pains and uncomfortable sensations. More about that later. A rare faster does
feel immediately better, and continues to feel ever better by the day, and even has incredible
energy while eating nothing, but the majority of us folks just have to tough it out, keeping
in mind that the way out is the way through. It is important to remind yourself at times that
even with some discomfort and considering the inconvenience of fasting that you are getting
off easy--one month of self-denial pays for those years of indulgence and buys a regenerated body.

Length Of The Fast

How long should a person fast? In cases where there are serious complaints to remedy but where
there are no life threatening disease conditions, a good rule of thumb is to fast on water
for one complete day (24 hours) for each year that the person has lived. If you are 30 years
old, it will take 30 consecutive days of fasting to restore complete health. However, thirty
fasting days, done a few days here and a few there won't equal a month of steady fasting; the
body accomplishes enormously more in 7 or l4 days of consecutive fasting, than 7 or 14 days
of fasting accumulated sporadically, such as one day a week. This is not to say that regular
short fasts are not useful medicine. Periodic day-long fasts have been incorporated into many
religious traditions, and for good reason; it gives the body one day a week to rest, to be
free of digestive obligations, and to catch up on garbage disposal. I heartily recommend it.
But it takes many years of unfailingly regular brief fasting to equal the benefits of one,
intensive experience.

Fasting on water much longer than fifteen consecutive days may be dangerous for the very sick,
(unless under experienced supervision) or too intense for those who are not motivated by severe
illness to withstand the discomfort and boredom. However, it is possible to finish a healing
process initiated by one long water fast by repeating the fast later. My husband's healing
is a good example of this. His health began to noticeably decline about age 38 and he started
fasting. He fasted on water 14 to 18 days at a time, once a year, for five consecutive years
before most of his complaints and problems entirely vanished.

The longest fast I ever supervised was a 90 day water fast on an extraordinarily obese woman,
who at 5' 2" weighed close to 400 pounds. She was a Mormon; generally members of the LDS Church
eat a healthier diet than most Americans, but her's included far too much of what I call "healthfood
junkfood," in the form of whole grain cakes and cookies, lots of granola made with lots of
honey, oil, and dried fruit, lots of honey heaped atop heavily buttered whole grain bread.
(I will explain more about the trap of healthfood junkfood later on.) A whole foods relatively
meatless diet is far superior to its refined white flour, white sugar and white grease (lard)
counterpart, but it still produced a serious heath problem in just 30 years of life. Like many
women, she expressed love-for-family in the kitchen by serving too-much too-tasty food. The
Mormons have a very strong family orientation and this lady was no exception, but she was insecure
and unhappy in her marriage and sought consolation in food, eaten far in excess of what her
body needed.

On her 90 day water fast she lost about 150 pounds, but was still grossly overweight when the
fast ended. Toward the end it became clear that it was unrealistic to try to shrink this woman
any closer to normal body weight because to her, fat represented an invaluable insulation or
buffer that she was not prepared to give up. As the weight melted away on the fast and she
was able to actually feel the outline of a hip bone her neurosis became more and more apparent,
and the ability to feel a part of her skeleton was so upsetting to her that her choice was
between life threatening obesity and pervasive anxiety.

Her weight was still excessive but the solace of eating was even more important. This woman
needed intensive counseling not more fasting. Unfortunately, at the end she choose to remain
obese. Fat was much less frightening to her than confronting her emotions and fears. The positive
side was that after the fast she was able to maintain her weight at 225 instead of 375 which
was an enormous relief to her exhausted heart.

Another client I fasted for 90 days was a 6' 1" tall, chronic schizophrenic man who weighed
in at 400 pounds. He was so big he could barely get through my front door, and mine was an
extraordinarily wide door in what had been an upper-class mansion. This man, now in his mid
twenties, had spent his last seven years in a mental institution before his parents decided
to give him one last chance by sending to Great Oaks School. The state mental hospitals at
that time provided the mentally ill with cigarettes, coffee, and lots of sugary treats, but
none of these substances were part of my treatment program so he had a lot of immediate withdrawal
to go through. The quickest and easiest way to get him through it was to put him on a water
fast after a few days of preparation on raw food.

This was not an easily managed case! He was wildly psychotic, on heavy doses of chloropromazine,
with many bizarre behaviors. Besides talking to himself continuously in gibberish, he collected
bugs, moss, sticks, piles or dirt, and switched to smoking oak leaves instead of cigarettes.
He was such a fire hazard that I had to move him to a downstairs room with concrete floor.
Even in the basement he was a fire hazard with his smoking and piles of sticks and other inflammables
next to his bed, but all of this debris was his "precious." I knew that I was in for trouble
if I disturbed his precious, but the insects and dirt piles seemed to be expanding exponentially.

One day the dirt exceeded my tolerance level. To make a long story short he caught me in the
act of cleaning up his precious. Was he furious! All 350 pounds of him! (By this time he had
lost 50 pounds.) He barreled into me, fists flying, and knocked me into the pipes next to the
furnace and seemed ready to really teach me what was what. I prefer to avoid fights, but if
they are inevitable, I can really get into the spirit of the thing. I'd had lots of childhood
practice defending myself because I was an incurable tomboy who loved to wrestle; I could usually
pin big boys who considered themselves tough. So I began using my fists and what little martial
arts training I had to good use. After I hurt him a bit he realized that I was not going to
be easily intimidated, and that in fact he was in danger of getting seriously damaged. So he
called a truce before either of us were badly beaten up. He had only a few bruises and welts,
nothing serious.

After that he refrained from collecting things inside the building (he continued to collect
outside). This compromise was fine with me, and the incident allowed me to maintain the authority
I needed to bully him into co-operating with the program: taking his vitamins, and sticking
to his fast until he finally reached 200 pounds. After 90 days on water he actually looked
quite handsome, he no longer smoked, he was off psychotropic medication, and his behaviors
were within an acceptable range as long as your expectations were not too high.

He was well enough to live outside a hospital and also clear-headed enough to know that if
he let too many people know how well he really was, he might have to give up his mental disability
pension and actually become responsible for himself. No way, Jose! This fellow knew a good
thing when he saw it. So he continued to pull bizarre stunts just often enough in front of
the right audience to keep his disability checks coming in, while managing to act sane enough
to be allowed to live comfortably at home instead of in the hospital. By keeping to my program
he could stay off mind-numbing psychotropic medication if he kept up his megavitamins and minerals.
This compromise was tolerable from his point of view, because there were no side effects like
he experienced from his tranquilizers.

It is very rare for a mentally ill person who has spent more than a few months in a mental
hospital to ever usefully return to society because they find "mental illness" too rewarding.

My Own 56 Day Long Fast

Fasters go through a lot of different emotional states, these can get intense and do change
quite rapidly. The physical body, too, will manifest transitory conditions. Some can be quite
uncomfortable. But, I don't want to leave the reader with the impression that fasting is inevitably
painful. So I will now recount my own longest fast in detail.

When I did my own 42 day water fast followed by two weeks on carrot juice diluted 50/50 with
water, which really amounted to 56 consecutive days, my predominant sensation for the first
three days was a desire to eat that was mostly a mental condition, and a lot of rumbling and
growling from my stomach. This is not real hunger, just the sounds the stomach likes to make
when it is shrinking. After all, this organ is accustomed to being filled at regular intervals,
and then, all of a sudden, it gets nothing, so naturally the stomach wants to know what is
going on. Once it realizes it is on temporary vacation, the stomach wisely decides to reduce
itself to a size suitable for a retired organ. And it shuts up. This process usually takes
three to five days and for most people, no further "hunger pangs" are felt until the fast is over.

Real hunger comes only when the body is actually starving. The intense discomforts many people
experience upon missing a meal are frequently interpreted as hunger but they aren't. What is
actually happening is that their highly toxic bodies are taking the opportunity presented by
having missed a meal or two to begin to cleanse. The toxins being released and processed make
assorted unpleasant symptoms such as headaches and inability to think clearly. These symptoms
can be instantly eliminated by the intake of a bit of food, bringing the detox to a screeching
halt.

Two weeks into the fast I experienced sharp abdominal pains that felt like I imagine appendicitis
feels, which compelled me toward the nearest toilet in a state of great urgency where I productively
busied myself for about half an hour. As I mentioned earlier, I was experimentally adhering
to a rigid type of fast of the sort recommended by Dr. Herbert Shelton, a famous advocate of
the Natural Hygiene school. Shelton was such a powerful writer and personality that there still
exists a Natural Hygiene Society that keeps his books in print and maintains his library. The
words "Natural Hygiene" are almost owned by the society like a trademark and they object when
anyone describes themselves as a hygienist and then advocates any practice that Dr. Shelton
did not approve of.

Per Dr. Shelton, I was going to fast from the time hunger left until the time it returned and
I was not going to use any form of colon cleansing. Shelton strongly opposed bowel cleansing
so I did no enemas nor colonics, nor herbs, nor clays, nor psyllium seed designed to clean
the bowel, etc. Obviously at day 14 the bowel said, enough is enough of this crap, and initiated
a goods house cleaning session. When I saw what was eliminated I was horrified to think that
I had left that stuff in there for two weeks. I then started to wonder if the Sheltonites were
mistaken about this aspect of fasting. Nonetheless, I persevered on the same regimen because
my hunger had not returned, my tongue was still thickly coated with foul-smelling, foul-tasting
mucus and I still had some fat on my feet that had not been metabolized.

Shelton said that cleansing is not complete until a skeletal condition is reached--that is,
absolutely no fat reserves are left. Up until that time I did not even know that I had fat
on my feet, but much to my surprise, as the weeks went on, not only did my breasts disappear
except for a couple of land marks well-known to my babies, but my ribs and hip bones became
positively dangerous to passersby, and my shoes would not stay on my feet. This was not all
that surprising because I went from 135 pounds down to 85 on a 5' 7" frame with substantial
bone structure.

Toward the end of the fast my eyes became brighter and clearer blue, my skin took on a good
texture, my breath finally became sweet, my tongue cleared up and became pink, my mind was
clear, and my spiritual awareness and sensitivity was heightened. In other words, I was no
longer a walking hulk of stored-up toxemia. I also felt quite weak and had to rest for ten
minutes out every hour in horizontal position. (I should have rested much more.) I also required
very little sleep, although it felt good to just lie quietly and rest, being aware of what
was going on in various parts of my body.

During the last few weeks on water I became very attentive to my right shoulder. Two separate
times in the past, while flying head first over the handlebars of my bicycle I had broken my
shoulder with considerable tearing of ligaments and tendons. At night when I was totally still
I felt a whole crew of pixies and brownies with picks and shovels at work in the joint doing
major repair work. This activity was not entirely comfortable, but I knew it was constructive
work, not destructive, so I joined the work crew with my mind's eye and helped the work along.

It seemed my visualizations actually did help. Ever since, I've had the fasters I supervised
use creative imagery or write affirmations to help their bodies heal. There are lots of books
on this subject. I've found that the techniques work far better on a faster than when a person
is eating normally.

After breaking the fast it took me six weeks to regain enough strength that I could run my
usual distance in my regular time; it took me six months to regain my full 135 pound weight
because I was very careful to break the fast slowly and correctly. Coming off water with two
weeks on dilute carrot juice I then added small portions of raw food such as apples, raw vegetables,
sprouts, vegetable juices, and finally in the fourth week after I began drinking dilute carrot
juice, I added seven daily well-chewed almonds to my rebuilding diet. Much later I increased
to 14 almonds, but that was the maximum amount of such highly concentrated fare my body wanted
digest at one time for over one year. I found I got a lot more miles to the gallon out of the
food that I did eat, and did not crave recreational foods. Overall I was very pleased with
my educational fast, it had taught me a great deal.

If I had undertaken such a lengthy fast at a time when I was actually ill, and therefore had
felt forced into it, my experience could have been different. A positive mental attitude is
an essential part of the healing process so fasting should not be undertaken in a negative,
protesting mental state. The mind is so powerful that fear or the resistance fear generates
can override the healing capacity of the body. For that reason I always recommend that people
who consider themselves to be healthy, who have no serious complaints, but who are interested
in water fasting, should limit themselves to ten consecutive days or so, certainly never more
than 14. Few healthy people, even those with a deep interest in the process, can find enough
personal motivation to overcome the extreme boredom of water fasting for longer than that.
Healthy people usually begin protesting severely after about two weeks. If there is any one
vital rule of fasting, one never should fast over strong, personal protest. Anytime you're
fasting and you really desire to quit, you probably should. Unless, of course, you are critically
ill. Then you may have no choice--its fast or die.

Common Fasting Complaints And Discomforts

The most frequently heard complaints of fasters are headaches, dry, cracked lips, dizziness,
blurred vision with black spots that float, skin rashes, and weakness in the first few days
plus what they think is intense hunger. The dizziness and weakness are really real, and are
due to increased levels of toxins circulating in the blood and from unavoidably low blood sugar
which is a natural consequence of the cessation of eating. The blood sugar does reestablish
a new equilibrium in the second and third week of the fast and then, the dizziness may cease,
but still, it is important to expect dizziness at the beginning.

It always takes more time for the blood to reach the head on a fast because everything has
slowed down, including the rate of the heart beat, so blood pressure probably has dropped as
well. If you stand up very quickly you may faint. I repetitively instruct all of my clients
to stand up very slowly, moving from a lying to a sitting position, pausing there for ten or
twenty seconds, and then rising slowly from a sitting to a standing position. They are told
that at the first sign of dizziness they must immediately put their head between their knees
so that the head is lower than the heart, or squat/sit down on the floor, I once had a faster
who forgot to obey my frequent warnings. About two weeks into a long fast, she got up rapidly
from the toilet and felt dizzy. The obvious thing to do was to sit back down on the toilet
or lie down on the bath rug on the floor, but no, she decided that because she was dizzy she
should rush back to her bed in the adjoining room. She made it as far as the bathroom door
and fainted, out cold, putting a deep grove into the drywall with her pretty nose on the way
down. We then had to make an unscheduled visit to a nose specialist, who calmly put a tape-wrapped
spoon inside her bent-over nose and pried it back to dead center. This was not much fun for
either of us; it is well worthwhile preventing such complications.

Other common complaints during the fast include coldness, due to low blood sugar as well as
a consequence of weight loss and slowed circulation due to lessened physical activity. People
also dislike inactivity which seems excruciatingly boring, and some are upset by weight loss
itself. Coldness is best handled with lots of clothes, bedding, hot water bottles or hot pads,
and warm baths. Great Oaks School of Health was in Oregon, where the endlessly rainy winters
are chilly and the concrete building never seemed to get really warm. I used to dream of moving
my fasters to a tropical climate where I could also get the best, ripest fruits to wean them
back on to food.

If the fast goes on for more than a week or ten days, many people complain of back discomfort,
usually caused by over-worked kidneys. This passes. Hot baths or hot water bottles provide
some relief. Drinking more fluids may also help a bit. Nausea is fairly common too, due to
toxic discharges from the gall bladder. Drinking lots of water or herbal tea dilutes toxic
bile in the stomach and makes it more tolerable.

Very few fasters sleep well and for some reason they expect to, certainly fasters hope to,
because they think that if they sleep all night they will better survive one more deadly dull
day in a state of relative unconsciousness. They find out much to their displeasure that very
little sleep is required on a fast because the body is at rest already. Many fasters sleep
only two to four hours but doze frequently and require a great deal of rest. Being mentally
prepared for this change of habit is the best handling. Generalized low-grade aches and pains
in the area of the diseased organs or body parts are common and can often be alleviated with
hot water bottles, warm but not hot bath water and massage. If this type of discomfort exists,
it usually lessens with each passing day until it disappears altogether.

Many fasters complain that their vision is blurred, and that they are unable to concentrate.
These are really major inconveniences because then fasters can't read or even pay close attention
to video-taped movies, and if they can't divert themselves some fasters think they will go
stir crazy. They are so addicted to a hectic schedule of doingness, and/or being entertained
that they just can't stand just being with themselves, forced to confront and deal with the
sensations of their own body, forced to face their own thoughts, to confront their own emotions,
many of which are negative. People who are fasting release a lot of mental/emotional garbage
at the same time as they let go of old physical garbage. Usually the psychological stuff contributed
greatly to their illness and just like the physical garbage and degenerated organs, it all
needs to be processed.

One of the most distressing experiences that happen occasionally is hair loss. Deprived of
adequate nutrition, the follicles can not keep growing hair, and the existing hair dies. However,
the follicles themselves do not die and once the fast has ended and sufficient nutrition is
forthcoming, hair will regrow as well or better than before.

There are also complaints that occur after the fast has been broken. Post-fast cravings, even
after only two weeks of deprivation, are to be expected. These may take the form of desires
for sweet, sour, salt, or a specific food dreamed of while fasting, like chocolate fudge sundays
or just plain toast. Food cravings must be controlled at all costs because if acted upon, each
indulgence chips away the health gains of the previous weeks. A single indulgence can be remedied
by a day of restricting the diet to juice or raw food. After the repair, the person feels as
good as they did when the fast ended. Repeated indulgences will require another extended bout
of fasting to repair. It is far better to learn self-control.

The Healing Crisis And Retracing

Certain unpleasant somatics that occur while fasting (or while on a healing diet) may not be
dangerous or "bad." Two types, the healing crisis, and retracing, are almost inevitable. A
well-educated faster should welcome these discomforts when they happen. The healing crisis
(but not retracing) also occurs on a healing diet.

The healing crisis can seem a big surprise to a faster who has been progressing wonderfully.
Suddenly, usually after a few days of noticeably increased well-being, they suddenly experience
a set of severe symptoms and feel just awful. This is not a setback, not something to be upset
or disappointed about, but a healing crisis, actually a positive sign

Healing crises always occur after a period of marked improvement. As the vital force builds
up during the healing process, the body decides it now has obtained enough energy to throw
off some accumulated toxins, and forcefully pushes them out through a typical and usually previously
used route of secondary elimination, such as the nose, lungs, stomach, intestines, skin, or
perhaps produces a flu-like experience with fever chills, sweat, aches and pains, etc. Though
unpleasant, this experience is to be encouraged; the body has merely accelerated its elimination
process. Do not attempt to suppress any of these symptoms, don't even try to moderate fever,
which is the body's effective way to burn out a virus or bacteria infection, unless it is a
dangerously high fever (over 102 degree Fahrenheit). Fever can be lowered without drugs by
putting the person into a cool/cold bath, or using cold towel wraps and cold water sponge baths.
The good news is that healing crises usually do not last long, and when they are past you feel
better than you did before the crisis.

Asthmatics seem to have the worst crises. I have had asthmatics bring up a quart of obnoxious
mucous from their lungs every night for weeks. They have stayed awake all night for three nights
continuously coughing and choking on the material that was being eliminated. After that clearing-out
process they were able to breath much more freely. Likewise I have had people who have had
sinusitis have nothing but non-stop pussy discharge from their sinuses for three weeks. Some
of this would run down the throat and cause nausea. All I could say to encourage the sufferer
was that it needed to come out and to please stand aside and let the body work its magic. These
fasters were not grateful until the sinus problem that had plagued them since childhood disappeared.

The interesting thing about healing crises are that the symptoms produced retrace earlier complaints;
they are almost never something entirely unknown to the patient. Usually they are old, familiar
somatics, often complaints that haven't bothered the faster for many years. The reason the
symptom is familiar but is not currently a problem is because as the body degenerates it loses
vital force; with less vital force it loses the ability to create such acute detoxification
episodes in non-life-threatening secondary elimination routes. The degenerated body makes less
violent efforts to cleanse, efforts that aren't as uncomfortable. The negative side of this
is that instead of creating acute discomfort in peripheral systems, the toxemia goes to more
vital organs where it hastens the formation of life-threatening conditions.

There is a very normal and typical progress for each person's fatal illness. Their ultimate
disease starts out in childhood or adolescence as acute inflammations of skin-like organs,
viral or bacterial infections of the same. Then, as vital force weakens, secondary eliminations
are shifted to more vital organs. Allergies or colds stop happening so frequently; the person
becomes rheumatic, arthritic or experience weakness in joints, tendons, ligaments, or to have
back pains, or to have digestive upsets. These new symptoms are more constant but usually less
acute. Ultimately, vital organs begin to malfunction, and serious disease develop. But a hygienist
sees the beginning of fatal diseases such as cancer in adolescent infections and allergies.

Retracing is generally seen only on water fasts, not on extended cleansing diets. The body
begins to repair itself by healing conditions in the reverse order to that which they occurred
originally. This means that the body would first direct healing toward the lungs if the most
recently serious illness was an attack of pneumonia six months previously. In this case you
would expect to quickly and intensely experience a mini-case of pneumonia while the body eliminates
residues in the lungs that were not completely discharged at the time. Next the body might
take you through a period of depression that you had experienced five years in the past. The
faster may be profoundly depressed for a few days and come out of it feeling much better. You
could then reexperience sensation-states like those caused by recreational drugs you had playfully
experimented with ten years previously along with the "trippiness" if it were a hallucinogen,
speediness if it was "speed" or the dopiness if it was heroin. Retracing further, the faster
might then experience something similar to a raging attack of tonsillitis which you vaguely
remember having when you were five years old, but fortunately this time it passes in three
days (or maybe six hours), instead of three weeks. This is retracing.

Please do not be surprised or alarmed if it happens to you on a fast, and immediately throw
out the baby with the bath water thinking that you are doing the wrong thing because all those
old illnesses are coming back to haunt you. It is the body's magnificent healing effort working
on your behalf, and for doing it your body deserves lots of "well done", "good body" thoughts
rather than gnashing of teeth and thinking what did I do to deserve this. The body won't tell
you what you did to deserve this, but it knows and is trying its darndest to undo it.

The Unrelenting Boredom Of Fasting

Then there's the unrelenting boredom of fasting. Most people have been media junkies since
they were kids; the only way they believe they can survive another day of fasting is by diverting
their minds with TV. This is far from ideal because often the emotions of a faster are like
an open wound and when they resonate with the emotions portrayed on most TV shows, the faster
gets into some very unpleasant states that interfere with healing. And the emotions many movies
prompt people to sympathetically generate are powerful ones, often highly negative, and contrary
to healing. Especially unhelpful are the adrenaline rushes in action movies. But if TV is the
best a faster can do, it is far better that someone fast with television programming filling
their minds than to not fast at all. I keep a library of positive VHS tapes for these addicts--comedies,
stories of heroic over-comings, depiction's of humans at their best.

Boredom is probably the most limiting factor to fasting a long time. That is because boredom
is progressive, it gets worse with each slowly-passing day. But concurrently, the rate of healing
is accelerating with each slowly-passing day. Every day the faster gets through does them considerably
more good than the previous day. However, fasters rarely are motivated enough to overcome boredom
for more than two weeks or so, unless they started the fast to solve a very serious or life-threatening
condition. For this reason, basically well people should not expect to be able to fast for
more than a couple of weeks every six months or year, no matter how much good a longer fast
might do.

Exercise While Fasting

The issue of how much activity is called for on a fast is controversial. Natural Hygienists
in the Herbert Shelton tradition insist that all fasters absolutely must have complete bed
rest, with no books, no TV, no visitors, no enemas, no exercise, no music, and of course no
food, not even a cup of herb tea. In my many years of conducting people through fasts, I have
yet to meet an individual that could mentally tolerate this degree of nothingness. It is too
drastic a withdrawal from all the stimulation people are used to in the twentieth century.
I still don't know how Shelton managed to make his patients do it, but my guess is that he
must have been a very intimidating guy. Shelton was a body builder of some renown in his day.
I bet Shelton's patients kept a few books and magazines under their mattress and only took
them out when he wasn't looking. If I had tried to enforced this type of sensory deprivation,
I know my patients would have grabbed their clothes and run, vowing never to fast again. I
think it is most important that people fast, and that they feel so good about the experience
that they want to do it again, and talk all their sick friends into doing the same thing.

In contrast to enforced inactivity, Russian researchers who supervised schizophrenics on 30
day water fasts insisted that they walk for three hours every day, without stopping. I would
like to have been there to see how they managed to enforce that. I suspect some patients cheated.
I lived with schizophrenics enough years to know that it is very difficult to get them to do
anything that they don't want to do, and very few of them are into exercise, especially when
fasting.

In my experience both of these approaches to activity during the fast are extremes. The correct
activity level should be arrived at on an individual basis. I have had clients who walked six
miles a day during an extended water fast, but they were not feeling very sick when they started
the fast, and they were also physically fit. In contrast I have had people on extended fasts
who were unable to walk for exercise, or so weak they were unable to even walk to the bathroom,
but these people were critically ill when they started fasting, and desperately needed to conserve
what little vital force they had for healing.

Most people who are not critically ill need to walk at least 200 yards twice a day, with assistance
if necessary, if only to move the lymph through the system. The lymphatic system is a network
of ducts and nodes which are distributed throughout the body, with high concentrations of nodes
in the neck, chest, arm pits, and groin. Its job is to carry waste products from the extremities
to the center of the body where they can be eliminated. The blood is circulated through the
arteries and veins in the body by the contractions of the heart, but the lymphatic system does
not have a pump. Lymphatic fluid is moved by the contractions of the muscles, primarily those
of the arms and legs. If the faster is too weak to move, massage and assisted movements are
essential.

Lymph nodes are also a part of our immune system and produce white blood cells to help control
invading organisms. When the lymph is overloaded with waste products the ducts and nodes swell,
and until the source of the local irritation is removed, are incapable of handling further
debris. If left in this condition for years they become so hard they feel like rocks under
the skin. Lumps in the armpits or the groin are prime sites for the future development of a
cancer. Fasting, massage, and poultices will often soften overloaded lymph nodes and coax them
back into operation.

The Stages Of Fasting

The best way to understand what happens when we fast is to break up the process into six stages:
preparation for the fast, loss of hunger, acidosis, normalization, healing, and breaking the fast.

A person that has consumed the typical American diet most of their life and whose life is not
in immediate danger would be very wise to gently prepare their body for the fast. Two weeks
would be a minimum amount of time, and if the prospective faster wants an easier time of it,
they should allow a month or even two for preliminary housecleaning. During this time, eliminate
all meat, fish, dairy products, eggs, coffee, black tea, salt, sugar, alcohol, drugs, cigarettes,
and greasy foods. This de-addiction will make the process of fasting much more pleasant, and
is strongly recommended. However, eliminating all these harmful substances is withdrawal from
addictive substances and will not be easy for most. I have more to say about this later when
I talk about allergies and addictions.

The second stage, psychological hunger, usually is felt as an intense desire for food. This
passes within three or four days of not eating anything. Psychological hunger usually begins
with the first missed meal. If the faster seems to be losing their resolve, I have them drink
unlimited quantities of good-tasting herb teas, (sweetened--only if absolutely necessary--with
nutrisweet). Salt-free broths made from meatless instant powder (obtainable at the health food
store) can also fend off the desire to eat until the stage of hunger has passed.

Acidosis, the third stage, usually begins a couple of days after the last meal and lasts about
one week. During acidosis the body vigorously throws off acid waste products. Most people starting
a fast begin with an overly acid blood pH from the typical American diet that contains a predominance
of acid-forming foods. Switching over to burning fat for fuel triggers the release of even
more acidic substances. Acidosis is usually accompanied by fatigue, blurred vision, and possibly
dizziness. The breath smells very bad, the tongue is coated with bad-tasting dryish mucus,
and the urine may be concentrated and foul unless a good deal of water is taken daily. Two
to three quarts a day is a reasonable amount.

Mild states of acidosis are a common occurrence. While sleeping after the last meal of the
day is digested bodies normally work very hard trying to detoxify from yesterday's abuses.
So people routinely awaken in a state of acidosis. Their tongue is coated, their breath foul
and they feel poorly. They end their brief overnight fast with breakfast, bringing the detoxification
process to a screeching halt and feel much better. Many people think they awaken hungry and
don't feel well until they eat. They confuse acidosis with hunger when most have never experienced
real hunger in their entire lives. If you typically awaken in acidosis, you are being given
a strong sign by your body that it would like to continue fasting far beyond breakfast. In
fact, it probably would enjoy fasting long beyond the end of acidosis.

Most fasters feel much more comfortable by the end of the first seven to ten days, when they
enter the normalization phase; here the acidic blood chemistry is gradually corrected. This
sets the stage for serious healing of body tissues and organs. Normalization may take one or
two more weeks depending on how badly the body was out of balance. As the blood chemistry steadily
approaches perfection, the faster usually feels an increasing sense of well-being, broken by
short spells of discomfort that are usually healing crises or retracings.

The next stage, accelerated healing, can take one or many weeks more, again depending on how
badly the body has been damaged. Healing proceeds rapidly after the blood chemistry has been
stabilized, the person is usually in a state of profound rest and the maximum amount of vital
force can be directed toward repair and regeneration of tissues. This is a miraculous time
when tumors are metabolized as food for the body, when arthritic deposits dissolve, when scar
tissues tend to disappear, when damaged organs regain lost function (if they can). Seriously
ill people who never fast long enough to get into this stage (usually it takes about ten days
to two weeks of water fasting to seriously begin healing) never find out what fasting can really
do for them.

Breaking the fast is equally or more important a stage than the fast itself. It is the most
dangerous time in the entire fast. If you stop fasting prematurely, that is, before the body
has completed detoxification and healing, expect the body to reject food when you try to make
it eat, even if you introduce foods very gradually. The faster, the spiritual being running
the body, may have become bored and want some action, but the faster's body hasn't finished.
The body wants to continue healing.

By rejection, I mean that food may not digest, may feel like a stone in your stomach, make
you feel terrible. If that happens and if, despite that clear signal you refuse to return to
fasting, you should go on a juice diet, take as little as possible, sip it slowly (almost chew
it) and stay on juice until you find yourself digesting it easily. Then and only then, reintroduce
a little solid raw food like a green salad.

Weaning yourself back on to food should last just as long as the fast. Your first tentative
meals should be dilute, raw juices. After several days of slowly building up to solid raw fruit,
small amounts of raw vegetable foods should be added. If it has been a long fast, say over
three weeks, this reintroduction should be done gingerly over a few weeks. If this stage is
poorly managed or ignored you may become acutely ill, and for someone who started fasting while
dangerously ill, loss of self control and impulsive eating could prove fatal. Even for those
fasting to cure non-life-threatening illnesses it is pointless to go through the effort and
discipline of a long fast without carefully establishing a correct diet after the fast ends,
or the effort will have largely been wasted.

Foods For Monodiet, Juice or Broth Fasting

zucchini, garlic, onion, green beans, kale, celery, beet greens and root, cabbage, carrot,
wheat grass juice, alfalfa juice, barley green juice, parsley juice, lemon/lime juice, grapefruit
juice, apples (not juice, too sweet), diluted orange juice, diluted grape juice

Less-Rigorous-Than-Water Fasts

There are gradations of fasting measures ranging from rigorous to relatively casual. Water
fasting is the most rapid and effective one. Other methods have been created by grasping the
underlying truth of fasting, namely whenever the digestive effort can be reduced, by whatever
degree, whenever the formation of the toxins of misdigestion can be reduced or prevented, to
that extent the body can divert energy to the healing process. Thus comes about assorted famous
and sometimes notorious monodiet semi-fasts like the grape cure where the faster eats only
grapes for a month or so, or the lemon cure, where the juice of one or more lemons is added
to water and nothing else is consumed for weeks on end. Here I should also mention the "lemon
juice/cayenne pepper/maple syrup cure," the various green drink cures using spirulina, chlorella,
barley green or wheat grass, and the famous Bieler broths--vegetable soups made of overcooked
green beans or zucchini.

I do not believe that monodiets work because of some magical property of a particular food
used. They work because they are semi-fasts and may be extremely useful, especially for those
individuals who can not or will not tolerate a water fast.

The best foods for monodiet fasting are the easiest ones digest: juices of raw fruits and nonstarchy
vegetables with all solids strained out. Strained mineral broths made of long-simmered non-starchy
vegetables (the best of them made of leafy green vegetables) fall in the same category. So
if you are highly partial to the flavor of grapes or lemons or cayenne and (highly diluted)
maple syrup, a long fast on one of these would do you a world of good, just not quite as much
good as the same amount of time spent on water alone. If you select something more "solid"
for a long monodiet fast, like pureed zucchini, it is essential that you not overeat. Dr. Bieler
gave his fasting patients only one pint of zucchini soup three or four times a day. The way
to evaluate how much to eat is by how much weight you are losing. When fasting, you must lose
weight! And the faster the better.

Pure absolute water fasting while not taking any vitamins or other nutritional supplementation
has a very limited maximum duration, perhaps 45 days. The key concept here is nutritional reserves.
Body fat is stored, surplus energy fuel. But energy alone cannot keep a body going. It needs
much more than fuel to rebuild and repair and maintain its systems. So the body in its wisdom
also stores up vitamins and minerals and other essential substances in and in-between all its
cells. Bodies that have been very well nourished for a long time have very large reserves;
poorly nourished ones may have very little set aside for a rainy day. And it is almost a truism
that a sick person has, for quite some time, been a poorly nourished one. With low nutritional
reserves. This fact alone can make it difficult for a sick person to water fast for enough
time to completely heal their damaged organs and other systems.

Obese people have fat reserves sufficient to provide energy for long periods, but rarely can
any body, no matter how complete its nutrition was for years previously, contain sufficient
nutritional reserves to support a water fast of over six weeks. To water fast the very obese
down to normal weight can take months but to make this possible, rather diverse and concentrated
nutrition containing few calories must be given. It is possible to fast even a very slim a
person for quite a bit longer than a month when their body is receiving easily assimilable
vitamins and minerals and small amounts of sugars or other simple carbohydrates.

I estimate that fasting on raw juices and mineral broths will result in healing at 25 to 75
percent of the efficiency of water fasting, depending on the amount of nutrition taken and
the amount the juices or broths are diluted. But juice fasting can permit healing to go on
several times longer than water might.

Fasting on dilute juice and broth can also save the life of someone whose organs of elimination
are insufficiently strong to withstand the work load created by water fasting. In this sense,
juices can be regarded as similar to the moderators in a nuclear reactor, slowing the process
down so it won't destroy the container. On a fast of undiluted juice, the healing power drops
considerably, but a person on this regimen, if not sick, is usually capable of working.

Duration of juice fasts can vary greatly. Most of the time there is no need to continue fasting
after the symptoms causing concern have been eliminated, and this could happen as quickly as
one week or take as long as 60 days if the person is very obese. Fasters also lose their motivation
once the complaint has vanished. But feeling better is no certain indication that the need
to fast has ended. This points up one of the liabilities of juice fasting; the person is already
eating, their digestive system never shut down and consequently, it is much easier for them
to resume eating. The thing to keep in mind is that if the symptoms return, the fast was not
long enough or the diet was not properly reformed after the fast.

During a long fast on water or dilute juice, if the body has used up all of it's reserves and/or
the body has reached skeletal condition, and the condition or symptoms being addressed persists
the fast should be ended, the person should go on a raw food healing diet. If three to six
months on raw food don't solve the complaint then another spell of water or dilute juice fasting
should be attempted. Most fasters are incapable of persisting until the body reserves have
been used up because social conditioning is telling them their emaciated-looking body must
be dying when it is actually far from death, but return of true hunger is the critical indicator
that must not be ignored. True hunger is not what most people think of when they think they
are hungry. Few Americans have ever experienced true hunger. It is not a rumbling in the stomach
or a set of uncomfortable sensations (caused by the beginning of detoxification) you know will
go away after eating. True hunger is an animal, instinctual feeling in the back of one's throat
(not in the stomach) that demands you eat something, anything, even grass or shoe leather.

Seriously ill people inevitably start the cleansing process with a pre-existing and serious
mineral deficiencies. I say inevitably because they likely would not have become ill had they
been properly nourished. Sick fasters may be wise to take in minerals from thin vegetable broths
or vitamin-like supplements in order to prevent uncomfortable deficiency states. For example
calcium or magnesium deficiencies can make water fasters experience unpleasant symptoms such
as hand tremors, stiff muscles, cramps in the hands, feet, and legs, and difficulty relaxing.
I want to stress here that fasting itself does not create deficiencies. But a person already
deficient in minerals should watch for these symptoms and take steps to remedy the deficiencies
if necessary.

Raw Food Healing Diets

Next in declining order of healing effectiveness is what I call a raw food healing diet or
cleansing diet. It consists of those very same watery fruits and nonstarchy vegetables one
juices or makes into vegetable broths, but eaten whole and raw. Heating food does two harmful
things: it destroys many vitamins, enzymes and other nutritional elements and it makes many
foods much harder to digest. So no cooked vegetables or fruits are allowed because to maintain
health on this limited regimen it is essential that every possible vitamin and enzyme present
in the food be available for digestion. Even though still raw, no starchy or fatty vegetables
or fruits are allowed that contain concentrated calories like potatoes, winter squash, avocados,
sweet potatoes, fresh raw corn, dates, figs, raisins, or bananas. And naturally, no salad dressings
containing vegetable oils or (raw) ground seeds are allowed. Nor are raw grains or other raw
concentrated energy sources.

When a person starts this diet they will at first experience considerable weight loss because
it is difficult to extract a large number of calories from these foods (though I have seen
people actually gain weight on a pure melon diet, so much sugar do these fruits have, and well-chewed
watermelon seeds are very nourishing). Eating even large quantities of only raw fruit and raw
non-starchy vegetables results in a slow but steady healing process about 10 to 20 percent
as rapid as water fasting.

A raw food cleansing diet has several huge advantages. It is possible to maintain this regimen
and regularly do non-strenuous work for many months, even a year or more without experiencing
massive weight loss and, more important to some people, without suffering the extremes of low
blood sugar, weakness and loss of ability to concentrate that happen when water fasting. Someone
on a raw food cleanse will have periods of lowered energy and strong cravings for more concentrated
foods, but if they have the self-discipline to not break their cleansing process they can accomplish
a great deal of healing while still maintaining more or less normal (though slower paced) life
activities. However, almost no one on this diet is able to sustain an extremely active life-style
involving hard physical labor or competitive sports. And from the very beginning someone on
a raw food cleanse must be willing and able to lie down and rest any time they feel tired or
unable to face their responsibilities. Otherwise they will inevitably succumb to the mental
certainty that their feelings of exhaustion or overwhelm can be immediately solved by eating
some concentrated food to "give them energy." Such low-energy states will, however, pass quickly
after a brief nap or rest.

Something else gradually happens to a body when on such a diet. Do you recall that I mentioned
that after my own long fast I began to get more "mileage" out of my food. A cleansed, healed
body becomes far more efficient at digestion and assimilation; a body that is kept on a raw
food cleansing diet will initially lose weight rapidly, but eventually weight loss slows to
virtually nothing and then stabilizes. However, long-term raw fooders are usually thin as toothpicks.

Once starchy vegetables like potatoes or winter squash, raw or cooked, or any cereals, raw
or cooked, are added to a cleansing diet, the detoxification and healing virtually ceases and
it becomes very easy to maintain or even gain weight, particularly if larger quantities of
more concentrated foods like seeds and nuts are eaten. Though this diet has ceased to be cleansing,
few if any toxins from misdigestion will be produced and health is easy to maintain.

"Raw fooders" are usually people who have healed themselves of a serious diseases and ever
after continue to maintain themselves on unfired food, almost as a matter of religious belief.
They have become convinced that eating only raw, unfired food is the key to extraordinarily
long life and supreme good health. When raw fooders wish to perform hard physical work or strenuous
exercise, they'll consume raw nuts and some raw grains such as finely-ground oats soaked overnight
in warm water or deliciously sweet "Essene bread," made from slightly sprouted wheat that is
then ground wet, made into cakes, and sun baked at temperatures below about 115 degrees Fahrenheit.
Essene bread can be purchased in some health food stores. However, little or no healing or
detoxification can happen once concentrated energy sources are added to the diet, even raw ones.

During my days at Great Oaks School I was a raw fooder for some years, though I found it very
difficult to maintain body heat on raw food during chilly, rainy Oregon winters and eventually
struck a personal compromise where I ate about half my diet raw and the rest fired. I have
listed some books by raw fooders in the Bibliography. Joe Alexander's is the most fun.

Complete Recovery Of The Seriously Ill

Its a virtual certainty that to fully recover, a seriously ill person will have to significantly
rebuild numerous organs. They have a hard choice: to accept a life of misery, one that the
medical doctors with drugs and surgery may be able to prolong into an interminable hell on
earth, or, spend several years working on really healing their body, rotating between water
fasting, juice or broth fasting, extended periods on a cleansing raw food diet, and periods
of no-cleansing on a more complete diet that includes moderate amounts of cooked vegetables
and small quantities of cooked cereals. And even after recovery someone who was quite ill may
have to live the rest of their life on a rather restricted regimen.

It is unrealistic to expect one fast to fix everything. The body will heal as much as it can
in the allotted time, but if a dangerous illness has not been fully remedied by the first intense
fast, a raw food diet must be followed for three to six months until weight has been regained,
nutritional reserves have been rebuilt and it is safe to undertake another extended fast. More
than two water or juice fasts a year of thirty continuous days are not recommended nor should
they be necessary unless the life is in imminent danger and there is no other option.

The story of Jake's catastrophic illness and almost-cure is a good example of this type of
program. Jake was from back East. He phoned me because he had read a health magazine article
I had written, his weak voice faintly describing a desperate condition. He was in a wheelchair
unable to walk, unable to control his legs or arms very well, was unable to control his bladder
and required a catheter. He had poor bowel control, had not the strength to talk much or loudly
and most frightening to him, he was steadily losing weight although he was eating large amounts
of cooked vegetables and grains. Jake had wasted away to 90 pounds at 5' 10" and looked pathetic
when I first saw him wheeled off an airplane at my local airport.

Jake had seen a lot of medical doctors and had variously been diagnosed as having chronic fatigue
syndrome, chronic (whatever that is) meningitis, and multiple sclerosis. He had been treated
by virtually every medical expert and many famous alternative practitioners, utilizing a host
of old and new techniques, all to no avail. He had even tried intravenous chelation therapy
and colonics. It had also been suggested that he enter a hospital for the treatment of eating
disorders and/or see a psychiatrist. He had tried to gain admittance to a number of holistic
fasting institutions back east, but they all refused him because they considered the risk was
too high to fast a person at such a low body weight. But I had previously fasted emaciated
people like Jake, and there was something I liked about his telephone presence. Perhaps this
is why I foolishly decided I knew better than the other experts.

People commonly waste away and die while eating large amounts of food. Obviously they are unable
to digest or assimilate nutrients or they wouldn't be wasting. Eating further increases their
toxic burden from undigested meals, further worsening their already failing organs. The real
solution is to stop feeding them altogether so that their digestive functions can heal. In
Jake's case, his body's nutritional reserves had already become sadly depleted due to poor
absorption over such an extended period, so I could not fast him on water. I immediately put
Jake on a rich mineral broth prepared from everything left alive in our garden at the end of
winter--leaves of kale, endive plants, whole huge splitting Savoy cabbages, garlic, huge leeks
including their green tops, the whole stew fortified with sea weed. It did not matter too much
what vegetables I used as long as there were lots of leafy greens containing lots of chlorophyll
(where the most concentrated mineral nutrition is located).

Jake was given colonics every day, but had to be carried to the colonic table because he could
not support his own weight. Whoever had given him colonics previously had not accomplished
much for I must say that Jake had the most foul smelling discharges that I had ever encountered
in administering over 6,000 colonics over many years. It was as if his body was literally rotting
from the inside out.

After 30 days on mineral broth Jake, who really did weigh 90 pounds when he arrived, was only
down to 85! When a person already close to skeletal weight starts fasting, to conserve vital
tissue the body goes rapidly into a state of profound rest so it uses very little energy, thus
it loses very little weight each day. This degree of resting also helps heal abnormal body
parts earlier. After one month on mineral broth Jake began to show signs of mineral deficiencies
in the form of a fine tremor of the hands, and cramps in the feet, so I put him on mineral
supplements too.

Jake was in my house for a long time. At the end of the second month on broth he started two
weeks on raw carrot juice with a lot of chlorophyll added from sources such as algae (spirulina),
wheat grass juice, alfalfa, etc.. This was followed by two more weeks on small quantities of
raw fruits and vegetables, and then followed by two weeks with added steamed vegetables, and
finally, he achieved a diet which included small amounts of grain, cooked legumes and raw nuts,
plus the fruits and vegetables previously mentioned. Jake health steadily improved. He gained
control of his bladder, bowels, speech, hands, and legs. He began to exercise in the living
room on a stationary bike, and walked slowly up and down our long driveway, picking daffodils
in the beautiful spring weather.

Sadly, though I could help his body to heal it was next to impossible to stem the tides of
Jake's appetites or to pleasantly withstand his tantrums when he was denied; he always wanted
more in terms of quantity, more in terms of variety, and at more frequent intervals. Though
his organs had healed significantly, his digestive capacity was not nearly as large as he remembered
himself enjoying before he got sick. And never would be. Jake was not happy about the dietary
restrictions necessary for him to retain his newly attained health, and unwilling to stay within
the limits of his digestive system's ability to process foods. He had gained weight and was
back up to 120 pounds. It was time for him to go home before I lost my good humor.

Jake left with a lot of "good lucks" and stern admonitions to stick to his stringent diet and
supplement program. It was a big moment for Jake. He had arrived in a wheelchair three months
before. Now he walked unaided to the airplane, something he had not been able to do for two years.

Back at home Jake had no one courageous enough to set limits for him. His immediate family
and every one of his brow beaten associates were compelled to give him everything that he wanted.
So his appetite and lack of personal discipline got the better of him. He started eating lots
of dates and figs. These had been eliminated from his diet because he was unable to process
foods which such a high sugar content. He also ate larger and larger quantities of grains,
nuts and avocados, although I had warned him of specific quantity limits on rich foods. Most
sadly, he returned to enjoying spaghetti with lots of cheese grated on top. Within months of
leaving my care his paralysis and weakness returned, except that unfortunately for him, he
still retained the ability to assimilate food and maintain his body weight. Ironically, the
only ultimate benefit of his fasting with me was to permit him to suffer a far longer existence
in a wheelchair without wasting away and escaping into death.

I would be failing my readers if I did not explain why Jake became ill in the first place.
Jake had started what grew to become a very successful chain of spaghetti restaurants with
a unique noodles and sauces made to his own formula. He ate a lot of his own spaghetti over
the years, and had been reared in a good Italian family with lots of other kinds of rich food.
Jake had a reputation for being able to outeat everybody in terms of quantity and in the amount
of time spent eating. In childhood, this ability had made his Italian mother very happy because
it showed appreciation for her great culinary skill.

Secondly, Jake the adult was still at his core, Jake the spoiled brat child, with a bad, unregulated
temper. He was in the habit of dumping his temper on other people whether they needed a helping
of his angry emotions or not. A lot of people in his employ and in his extended family tiptoed
around Jake, always careful of triggering his wrath. At my place as Jake began to get well
he began to use his increased energy and much stronger voice to demonstrate his poor character.
At meal times Jake would bang the table with a fork hard enough to leave dents in the wood
table top while yelling for more, complaining loudly about the lack of rich sauces and other
culinary delights he craved. This was a character problem that Jake could not seem to overcome,
even with a lot of intervention from the local minister on his behalf and my counseling. Jake
was a Catholic who went to church regularly, but acted like a Christian only while he was in
church. On some level Jake knew that he was not treating others fairly, but he would not change
his habitual responses. His negative thoughts and actions interfered with his digestive capacity
to the extent that his gluttonous eating habits produced illness, a vegetative paralyzing illness,
but not death. To me this seems almost a form of karmic justice.

It is common for people who have been very ill for extended periods of time to realize what
a wonderful gift life is and arrive at a willingness to do almost anything to have a second
chance at doing "life" right. Some succeed with their second chance and some don't. If they
don't succeed in changing their life and relationships, they frequently relapse.

Luigi Cornaro's left the world his story of sickness and rejuvenation. His little book may
be the world's first alternative healing text. It is a classic example of the value of abstentousness.
Had Jake taken this story to heart he would have totally recovered. Cornaro was a sixteenth
century Venetian nobleman. He, like Jake the spaghetti baron, was near death at the young age
of forty. (Jake was also in his early 40s when he broke down.) Cornaro's many doctors were
unable to cure him. Finally he saw a doctor who understood the principles of natural healing.
This wise physician determined that this illness was caused by a mismatch between Cornaro's
limited digestive capacity and the excessive amount of food he was eating. So Cornaro was put
on a diet of only 12 ounces of solid food and fourteen ounces of liquid a day. Any twelve ounces
of any solids he wanted and any fourteen ounces of liquid. It could be meat and wine, salad
or orange juice, no matter.

Cornaro soon regained his health and he continued to follow the diet until the age of 78. His
health was so outstanding during this period that people who were much younger in terms of
years were unable to keep up with him. At 78 his friends, worried about how thin he was (doesn't
it always seem that it is your so-called friends who always ruin a natural cure) persuaded
him to increase his daily ration by two ounces a day. His delicate and weak digestive system,
which had operated perfectly for many years, was unable to deal with the additional two ounces,
and he became very ill after a very short period of over eating.

Worse, his recent indulgence had even further damaged the organs of digestion and to survive
Cornaro had to cut his daily ration to eight ounces of solid food and eleven of liquids. On
this reduced dietary he again regained his health and lived to be 100. Cornaro wrote four books
on the value of abstinence or "sober living" as he called it, writing the last and perhaps
the most interesting at 96 years of age. Had my patient Jake been able to confine his food
intake to the level of his body's ability to digest, he might still be walking and enjoying
life. But try as I might I could not make him understand. Perhaps he enjoys doing penance in
his wheel chair more than he would enjoy health and life.

Tissue Losses at Death By Starvation

Fat                   97% Muscles               31 Blood                 27 Liver         
54 Spleen                67 Pancreas              17 Skin                  21 Intestines  
18 Kidneys               26 Lungs                 18 Testes                40 Heart       
3 Brain and Spinal Cord  3 Nerves                 3 Bone                  14

From Keys, Ancel, Joseph Brozek, Austin Henchel, Olaf Mickelson and Henry L. Taylor, (1950)
The Biology of Human Starvation. Two Vols. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.

Starvation

It is true that ethical medical doctors use the least-risky procedure they are allowed to use.
But this does not mean there are no risks to allopathic treatment. The medical doctor justifies
taking the risks by saying that the risk/reward ratio is the best possible. Any sick person
is already at risk. Life comes with only one guarantee: that none of us gets out of it alive.

Compared to the risks of allopathic medicine, fasting is a far safer method of treating disease.
The oft-repeated scare stories medical doctors and their allies circulate about fasting are
not true, and it is important to remember that none of these people portraying fasting as evil
and dangerous have ever fasted themselves--I'll put money on that one. Or, on the slim possibility
that someone telling fasting horror stories did actually not eat for 24 hours (probably because
some accident or acute illness prevented them), they had a terrible experience because they
didn't understand the process, were highly toxic, and were scared to death the whole time.

Or worse yet they fasted for a short period with an "open mind"--a very dangerous state in
which to approach anything new. I have found through considerable experience with people professing
to have open minds that the expression "I'm open minded" usually means that someone has already
made up their mind and new data just passes straight through their open mind--in one ear and
out the other. Or sometimes, the phrase "open mind" means a person that does not believe any
information has reality and is entirely unable to make up their mind.

The most commonly leveled criticism of fasting is that in its efforts to survive self-imposed
starvation the body metabolizes vital tissue, not just fat, and therefore, fasting is damaging,
potentially fatally damaging. People who tell you this will also tell you that fasters have
destroyed their heart muscle or ruined their nervous system permanently. But this kind of damage
happen only when a person starves to death or starves to a point very close to death, not when
someone fasts.

There is a huge difference between fasting and starvation. Someone starving is usually eating,
but eating poorly and inadequately, eating scraps of whatever is available such as sugar, white
flour, rancid grease, shoe leather, or even dirt. Frequently a starving person is forced to
exercise a great deal as they struggle to survive and additionally is highly apprehensive.
Or someone starving to death is confined to a small space, may become severely dehydrated too
and is in terror. Fear is very damaging to the digestive process, and to the body in general;
fear speeds up the destruction of vital tissue. People starve when trekking vast distances
through wastelands without food to eat, they starved in concentration camps, buried in mind
disasters, they starve during famines and starve while being tortured in prisons.

Until water fasting goes on past the point where all fatty tissues and all abnormal deposits
have been burned for fuel and recycled for the nutritional elements they contain, vital muscle
tissues and organs are not consumed. And as long as the body contains sufficient nutritional
reserves, vital organs and essential tissues are rebuilt and maintained. In fact the body has
a great deal of intelligence that we don't give it credit for. It knows exactly which cells
are essential to survival, which ones are not. The body knows which cells are abnormal deposits,
and it goes to work to metabolize them first. For example, the body recognizes arthritic deposits,
cysts, fibroids, and tumors as offensive parts of the landscape, and obligingly uses them for
foods in preference to anything else. A starving (not fasting) body also knows precisely in
what order of priority body cells should be metabolized to minimize risk of death or permanent
disability.

After a starving body has reached skeletal condition, or where some small amount of fat remains
but nutritional reserves (vitamins and minerals) are exhausted and there is insufficient nourishment
forthcoming, the body begins to consume nutrient-rich muscle and organ tissue in a last-ditch
effort to stay alive. Under these dire circumstances, the least essential muscles and organs
from the standpoint of survival are metabolized first. For example, muscles in the arms and
legs would be consumed early in the process, the heart muscle used only toward the very end.
The very last part of the body to be metabolized when one is starving and as has come very
close to death would be the brain and the nervous system.

Starvation begins where fasting ends, which is when real hunger begins. If the return of hunger
is ignored whenever it takes place, whether it is in 30, 60, or 90 days depending upon body
weight and type of fast, at that point exactly, not a day before, starvation begins very slowly.
Usually it takes a considerable period of time after that before death occurs. It is important
to note that this discussion applies only to the abstention from food, not water. Death takes
place very quickly in the absence of water.

The chart on the previous page shows numerically the phenomenal ability of the body to protect
the most essential tissues of the body right up to the time of death. If a person fasted for
30 days, the average time it takes for the return of hunger in a person that is not overweight,
and then ignored the return of hunger, and continued to abstain from food--if the person could
avoid forced exercise, keep warm, and had enough hydration, it could take as much as an additional
20 to 60 days to die of starvation! At death the body would have experienced losses of 40 to
60 percent of its starting body weight. (Ancel Keys et al, 1950) A emaciated person can not
afford to lose nearly as much weight as an obese person, and death under conditions of starvation
will occur earlier. In all cases of starvation the brain, nerves, heart, lungs, kidneys and
liver remain largely intact and functional to the very end. During a fast, it is almost impossible
to damage essential organs, unless of course the person creates the damage by fears about the
process, or by internalizing the fears of others. If those fears are present, the fast should
not be attempted.

Weight Loss By Fasting

Loss of weight indicates, almost guarantees, that detoxification and healing is occurring.
I can't stress this too much. Of all the things I find my patients seem to misunderstand or
forget after being told, it is that they can't heal in a rapid manner without getting smaller.
This reality is especially hard for the family and friends of someone who is fasting, who will
say, "you're looking terrible dear, so thin. Your skin is hanging on your bones. You're not
eating enough protein or nutrient food to be healthy and you must eat more or you're going
to develop serious deficiencies. You don't have any energy, you must be getting sicker. You're
doing the wrong thing, obviously. You have less energy and look worse every day. Go and see
a doctor before it is too late." To succeed with friends like this, a faster has to be a mighty
self-determined person with a powerful ability to disagree with others.

Medical personnel claim that rapid weight loss often causes dangerous deficiencies; these deficiencies
force the person to overeat and regain even more weight afterward. This is largely untrue,
though there is one true aspect to it: a fasted, detoxified body becomes a much more efficient
digester and assimilator, extracting a lot more nutrition from the same amount food is used
to eat. If, after extended fasting a person returns to eating the same number of calories as
they did before; they will gain weight even more rapidly than before they stated fasting. When
fasting for weight loss, the only way to keep the weight off is to greatly reform the diet;
to go on, and stay on, a diet made up largely of non-starchy, watery fruits and vegetables,
limited quantities of cooked food, and very limited amounts of highly concentrated food sources
like cereals and cooked legumes. Unless, of course, after fasting, one's lifestyle involves
much very hard physical labor or exercise. I've had a few obese fasters become quite angry
with me for this reason; they hoped to get thin through fasting and after the fast, to resume
overeating with complete irresponsibility as before, without weight gain.

People also fear weight loss during fasting because they fear becoming anorexic or bulimic.
They won't! A person who abstains from eating for the purpose of improving their health, in
order to prevent or treat illness, or even one who fasts for weight loss will not develop an
eating disorder. Eating disorders mean eating compulsively because of a distorted body image.
Anorexics and bulimics have obsessions with the thinner-is-better school of thought. The anorexic
looks at their emaciated frame in the mirror and thinks they are fat! This is the distorted
perception of a very insecure person badly in need of therapy. A bulimic, on the other hand
stuffs themselves, usually with bad food, and then purges it by vomiting, or with laxatives.
Anorexics and bulimics are not accelerating the healing potential of their bodies; these are
life threatening conditions. Fasters are genuinely trying to enhance their survival potential.

Occasionally a neurotic individual with a pre-existing eating disorder will become obsessed
with fasting and colon cleansing as a justification to legitimize their compulsion. During
my career while monitoring hundreds of fasters, I've known two of these. I discourage them
from fasting or colon cleansing, and refuse to assist them, because they carry the practices
to absurd extremes, and contribute to bad press about natural medicine by ending up in the
emergency ward of a hospital with an intravenous feeding tube in their arm.

Cases Beyond The Remedy Of Fasting

Occasionally, very ill people have a liver that has become so degenerated it cannot sustain
the burden of detoxification. This organ is as vital to survival as the brain, heart and lungs.
We can get along with only one kidney, we can live with no spleen, with no gallbladder, with
only small parts of the stomach and intestines, but we can not survive without a liver for
more than a day or so. The liver is the most active organ in the body during detoxification.
To reach an understanding of detoxification, it helps to know just what the liver does for
us on an ongoing basis.

The liver is a powerful chemical filter where blood is refined and purified. The liver passes
this cleansed blood out through the superior vena cava, directly to the heart. The blood is
then pumped into general and systemic circulation, where it reaches all parts of the body,
delivering nutrition and oxygen at a cellular level. On its return flow, a large proportion
of the depleted blood is collected by the gastric, splenic and superior and inferior mesenteric
veins that converge to form the large portal vein which enters the liver. Thus a massive flow
of waste from all the cells of the body is constantly flowing into the liver. The huge hepatic
artery also enters the liver to supply oxygen and nutrients with which to sustain the liver
cells themselves.

The liver is constantly at work refining the blood. It is synthesizing, purifying, renovating,
washing, filtering, separating, and detoxifying. It works day and night without stopping. Many
toxins are broken down by enzymes and their component parts are efficiently reused in various
parts of the body. Some impurities are filtered out and held back from the general circulation.
These debris are collected and stored in the gall bladder, which is a little sack appended
to the liver. After a meal, the contents of the gall bladder (bile) are discharged into the
duodenum, the upper part of the small intestine just beyond the stomach. This bile also contains
digestive enzymes produced by the liver that permit the breakdown of fatty foods in the small
intestine.

Sometimes a large flow of bile finds its way into the stomach by pressure or is sucked into
the stomach by vomiting. Excessive biliary secretion and excretion can also result from overeating,
which overcrowds the area. Sometimes colonics or massage can also stimulate a massive flow
of bile. Extremely bitter and irritating, when bile gets into the stomach the person either
vomits or wishes they could. And after vomiting and experiencing the taste of bile, wishes
they hadn't.

When no food at all enters the system, the blood keeps right on passing through the liver/filter
just as it does when we are eating. When the liver does not have to take care of toxins generated
by the current food intake, each passage through the liver results in a cleaner blood stream,
with the debris decreasing in quantity, viscosity, and toxicity, until the blood becomes normalized.
During fasting, debris from the gall bladder still pass through the small intestine and into
the large intestine. However, if the bowels do not move the toxins in the bile are readsorbed
into the blood stream and get recirculated in an endless loop. This toxic recycling makes a
faster feel just terrible, like they had a flu or worse!

The bowels rarely move while fasting. During fasting only enemas or colonics permit elimination
from the large intestine. If done effectively and frequently, enemas will greatly add to the
well being and comfort of the faster. Many times when a faster seems to be retracing or experiencing
a sudden onset of acute discomfort or symptoms, these can be almost immediately relieved by
an enema or colonic.

A person with major liver degeneration inevitably dies, with or without fasting, with or without
traditional medicine. Significantly impaired kidney function can also bring about this same
result. Mercifully, death while fasting is usually accomplished relatively free of pain, clear
of mind and with dignity. That often can not be said of death in a hospital. There are much
worse experiences than death.

Fasting is not a cure-all. There are some conditions that are beyond the ability of the body
to heal. Ultimately, old age gets us all.

Dr. Linda Hazzard, one of the greats of natural hygiene, who practiced Osteopathic medicine
in the 1920s, had a useful way of categorizing conditions that respond well to fasting. These
she labeled "acute conditions," and "chronic degenerative conditions." A third classification,
"chronic conditions with organic damage," does not respond to fasting. Acute conditions, are
usually inflammations or infections with irritated tissue, with swelling, redness, and often
copious secretions of mucous and pus, such as colds, flu, a first time case of pneumonia, inflamed
joints as in the early stages of arthritis, etc. These acute conditions usually remedy in one
to three weeks of fasting. Acute conditions are excellent candidates for self-doctoring. Chronic
degenerative conditions are more serious and the patient usually requires supervision. These
include conditions such as cancer, aids, chronic arthritis, chronic pneumonia, emphysema and
asthma. Chronic degenerative conditions usually respond within a month to three months of fasting.
The fasting should be broken up into two or three sessions if the condition has not been relieved
in one stint of supervised fasting. Each successive fast will produce some improvement and
if a light, largely raw-food diet is adhered to between fasts the patient should not worsen
and should be fairly comfortable between fastings.

If there has been major functional damage to an organ as a result of any of these degenerative
conditions, healing will not be complete, or may be impossible. By organic damage, I mean that
a vital part of the body has ceased to function due to some degenerative process, injury, or
surgery--so badly damaged that the cells that make up the organ can not be replaced.

I once had a twenty five year old man come to my spa to die in peace because he had been through
enough diagnostic procedures in three hospitals to know that his liver was beyond repair. He
had been working on an apple farm in between terms at university when he was poisoned several
times with insecticide from an aerial spray on the whole orchard. He absorbed so much insecticide
that his liver incurred massive organic damage.

When he came to me his body had reached the point where it was incapable of digesting, and
because of lack of liver function, it was incapable of healing while fasting, a condition in
which death is a certainty. He was a Buddhist, did not fear death and did not want to be kept
alive in agony or in prolonged unconsciousness by any extraordinary means, nor did he want
to die with tubes in every orifice. I was honored to be a supportive participant in his passing.
He died fasting, in peace, and without pain, with a clear mind that allowed him to consciously
prepare for the experience. He was not in a state of denial or fear, and made no frantic attempts
to escape the inevitable. He went quietly into that still dark night with a tranquil demeanor
and a slight smile.

Fortunately, in my many years of practice I had the pleasure of seeing the majority of the
people totally regain their health or at least greatly improve it by means of the fasting and
healing diets. Many cancer patients watched with amazement as their tumors disappeared before
their eyes, many arthritics regained their function, serious skin conditions such as psoriasis
disappeared, mental conditions improved, addictions vanished, fatigue was replaced by energy,
and fat dissolved revealing the hidden sculpture beneath. I will talk more about procedures
and the particular reasons bodies develop specific conditions in later chapters.

Social/Cultural/Psychological Obstacles To Fasting

Numerous attitudes make it difficult to fast or to provide moral support to friends or loved
ones that are fasting. Many people harbor fears of losing weight because they think that if
times were really tough, if there was a famine or they became ill and lost a lot of weight
they would have no reserves and would certainly perish. These people have no idea how much
fat can be concealed on an even skinny body, nor of how slowly a skinny body loses weight while
fasting. Substantial fat reserves are helpful as heat-retaining insulation in those rare accidents
when someone is dropped into a cold ocean and must survive until the rescue boat arrives. Being
fat might keep a person alive longer who is lost in the wilderness awaiting rescue with no
supplies, no means of procuring food, and no means of keeping warm. On the other hand, fat
people would have a far harder time walking out of the wilderness. And extensive fat deposits
are merely fuel and do not contain extensive nutritional reserves. An obese person fasting
without significant nutritional supplementation would begin starving long before they became
really skinny. On the balance, carrying excess weight is a far greater liability than any potential
prosurvival aspects it might have.

There are other attitudes associated with weight loss that make it difficult for people to
fast. People hold rather stereotypical notions about what constitutes an attractive person;
usually it involves having some meat on ones bones. Hollywood and Hugh Hefner have both influenced
the masses to think that women should have hourglass figures with large, upthrust, firm breasts.
Since breasts are almost all useless fatty tissue supporting some milk-producing glands that
do not give a breast much volume except when engorged, most women fasters loose a good percentage
of their breast mass. If the fast is extensive, there should also develop an impressive showing
of ribs and hip bones; these are not soft and cuddly. Husbands, lovers, parents, and friends
frequently point out that you don't look good this way and exhort you to put on weight. Most
people think pleasantly plump is healthy.

Skinny men, especially those who had lost a lot of weight during an illness, are pressured
by associates to put on weight to prove that they are healthy. I had a client who was formerly
a college varsity football player. Before his illness he had lifted weights and looked like
a hunk. His family and friends liked to see him that way and justifiably so. Then he got seriously
ill. On a long extended healing diet he lost a significant amount of weight and seemed down
right skinny, causing all who knew him well and cared about him to tempt him with all kinds
of scrumptious delicacies from the best of kitchens. But this case was like Luigi Cornaro,
a man who never again could look like a hunk. His "friends" made an absolutely necessary change
in life style and appearance far more difficult than it was already. My client was torn between
a desire to please others, and a desire to regain and retain his health. This problem a sick
person doesn't need.

If you have the independence to consider following an alternative medical program in a culture
that highly values conformity and agreement, you are also going to have to defend your own
course of self-determined action based on the best available data that you have. But fasters
are usually in fragile emotional condition, so I advise my clients who are subjected to this
kind of pressure to beg their friends and associates to refrain from saying anything if they
can't support the course of action you have chosen. After this, if friends or relatives are
still incapable of saying nothing (even non-verbally), it is important to exclude them from
your life until you have accomplished your health goals, have regained some weight and have
returned to eating a maintenance diet, rather than getting skinnier on a healing one.

The very worst aspect of our culture's eating programming is that people have been wrongfully
taught that when ill they must eat to keep up their strength. Inherent in this recommendation
is an unstated belief that when the body is weakened by a disease state, the weakness can somehow
be overcome with food, and that the body needs this food to kill the virus, bacteria, or invading
yeast, and uses the protein to heal or rebuild tissue. Sadly, the exact opposite is the case.
Disease organisms feed and multiply on the toxic waste products of misdigestion, and the body
is unable to digest well when it is weak or ill.

There's an old saying about this: "feed a cold, starve a fever." Most people think this saying
means you should eat when you have a cold. What the saying really means is if you feed a cold
then you will soon have to starve a fever. Protein foods especially are not digested by a diseased
body, and as mentioned before, the waste products of protein indigestion are especially poisonous.
That is all the body needs when it is already down, another load of poison which it can't eliminate
due to weakness and enervation.

Weight loss is usually associated with illness, as it should be! In times of acute illness
an otherwise healthy body loses its appetite for food because it is prosurvival to stop eating.
It is very hard to coax a sick animal to eat. Their bodies, not controlled by a mind full of
complex learned responses and false ideas, automatically know that fasting is nature's method
of healing. Contrary to popular understanding, digestion, assimilation, and elimination require
the expenditure of considerable energy. This fact may contradict the reader's experience because
everyone has become tired when they have worked a long time without eating, and then experienced
the lift after eating. But an ill body cannot digest efficiently so instead of providing energy
extracted from foods, the body is further burdened by yet another load of toxic material produced
by fermented and putrefied food. This adds insult to injury in a sick body that is already
drowning in its own garbage.

Worse, during illness most available vital force is already redirected into healing; it is
not available for digestion. It is important to allow a sick body to proceed with healing and
not to obstruct the process with unnecessary digestion or suppress the symptoms (which actually
are the healing efforts) with drugs. If you have an acute illness, and you stop all food intake
except for pure water and herb teas, and perhaps some vegetable broth, or dilute non-sweet
juice, you have relieved your body of an immense effort. Instead of digesting, the body goes
to work on catching up on healing. The body can and will almost inevitably heal itself if the
sick person will have faith in it, cooperate with the body's efforts by allowing the symptoms
of healing to exist, reduce or eliminate the intake of food to allow the body to marshal its
energies, maintain a positive mental attitude and otherwise stay out of the way.

Many people intensely dread missing even one meal. These folks usually are and have been so
toxic that their bodies had been stashing uneliminated toxins in their fat for years. They
are usually so addicted to caffeine, cigarettes, alcohol, and so forth, that when they had
fasted, even briefly, their bodies were forced to dip into highly-polluted fat reserves while
simultaneously the body begins withdrawal. People like this who try to fast experience highly
unpleasant symptoms including headache, irritability, inability to think or concentrate, blurred
vision, profound fatigue, aches, etc. Most of these symptoms come from low blood sugar, but
combined with the toxins being released from fat and combined with going through multiple addictive
withdrawals, the discomforts are more than most people are willing to tolerate. Fasting on
juice is much more realistic for cases like this. It is little wonder that when a hygienist
suggests a fast to improve health, this type of case asserts positively that fasting is quite
impossible, they have tried it, it is absolutely terrible and know that they can't do it.

This rejection is partly due to a cultural expectation (one reinforced by western medicine)
that all unpleasant symptoms should be avoided or suppressed. To voluntarily experience unpleasant
sensations such as those mentioned above is more than the ordinary timid person will subject
themselves to, even in order to regain health. They will allow surgery, drugs with violent
and dangerous side effects, painful and invasive testing procedures and radiation--all unpleasant
and sometimes extremely uncomfortable. These therapies are accepted because someone else with
authority is doing it to them. And, they have been told that it they don't submit they will
not ever feel better and probably will die in the near future. Also people think that they
have no alternative, that the expert in front of them knows what is best, so they feel relieved
to have been relieved of the responsibility for their own condition and its treatment.

Preventative Fasting

During the years it takes for a body to degenerate enough to prompt a fast, the body has been
storing up large quantities of unprocessed toxins in the cells, tissues, fat deposits, and
organs. The body in its wisdom will always choose to temporarily deposit overwhelming amounts
of toxins somewhere harmless rather than permit the blood supply to become polluted or to use
secondary elimination routes. A body will use times when the liver is less burdened to eliminate
these stored toxic debris. The hygienists' paradigm asserts that the manifestation of symptoms
or illness are all by themselves, absolute, unassailable proof that further storage of toxic
wastes in the cells, tissues, fat deposits, and organs is not possible and that an effort toward
elimination is absolutely necessary. Thus the first time a person fasts a great quantity of
toxins will normally be released. Being the resident of a body when this is happening can be
quite uncomfortable. For this reason alone, preventative fasting is a very wise idea.

Before the body becomes critically ill, clean up your reserve fuel supply (fat deposits) by
burning off some accumulated fat that is rich in toxic deposits and then replace it with clean,
non-toxic fat that you will make while eating sensibly. If you had but fasted prophylactically
as a preventative or health-creating measure before you became seriously ill, the initial detoxification
of your body could have been accomplished far more comfortably, while you were healthy, while
your vital force was high and while your body otherwise more able to deal with detoxification.

Each time you fast, even if it is only one day, you allow your body to go through a partial
detox, and each time it becomes easier and more comfortable than the last time. The body learns
how to fast. Each time you fast it, your body slips into a cleansing mode more quickly, and
each time you fast you lighten the load of stored toxins. Perhaps you have already eliminated
the caffeine your body had stored, which frequently causes severe headaches on withdrawal,
not to mention fatigue. It certainly helps to have this behind you before you go on to the
elimination of other irritating substances. Many people have gone through alcohol or tobacco
withdrawal, and understand that it is very unpleasant, and also that it must be done in the
pursuit of health. Why not withdraw from the rest of the irritating and debilitating substances
we take into our system on an ongoing basis, and why not grit your way through the eliminative
process, withdraw, from food addictions such as sugar or salt, and from foods that you may
be allergic to like wheat, dairy products or eggs.

It is very wise to invest in your own insurance plan by systematically detoxifying while you
are still healthy. Plan it into your life, when it is convenient, such as once a week on Sunday,
or even once a month on a quiet day. Take a few days of vacation, go to a warm, beautiful place
and devote part or all of it to cleansing. Treat yourself by taking an annual trip to Hawaii,
fasting at a hotel on the beach--do whatever it takes to motivate yourself. And consider this:
vacations are enormously cheaper when you stay out of restaurants.

If you have accustomed your body to 24 hour fasts, then you can work on 48 hour fasts, and
over time work up to 72 hour fasts, all on a continuum. You may find it becoming increasingly
comfortable, perhaps even pleasant, something you look forward to. Fasting a relatively detoxified
body feels good, and people eventually really get into the clean, light, clear headed, perhaps
spiritually aware state that goes along with it.

By contrast, fasting when you are sick is much more difficult because your vitality or vital
force is very low, you already have no energy, and probably have unpleasant symptoms that must
be dealt with at the same time. There may be the added stress of being forced into a cleanse
because you are too nauseous to eat. Most people let their health go until they are forced
into dealing with it; they are too busy living, so why bother.

The truth is that our body does age, and over time becomes less able to deal with insults;
the accumulated effect of insults and aging eventually leads most of us to some serious degenerative
illness. Normally this begins happening around age 50 if not sooner. Some of us that were gifted
with good genes or what I call "a good start" may have reached the age of 60 or 75 or even
90 without serious illness, but those people are few and far between. Why not tip the scales
in your favor by preventing or staving off health problems with systematic detoxification at
your own convenience.

Climb into the drivers seat and start to take control and gain confidence in your own ability
to deal with your body, your own health, and your own life. When it gets right down to the
bottom line, there is really only one thing in the world that is really yours, and that is
your life. Take control and start managing it. The reward will be a more qualitative life.

Chapter Four

Colon Cleansing

From The Hygienic Dictionary

Autointoxication. [1] the accumulations on the bowel wall become a breeding ground for unhealthy
bacterial life forms. The heavy mucus coating in the colon thickens and becomes a host for
putrefaction. The blood capillaries to the colon begin to pick up the toxins, poisons and noxious
debris as it seeps through the bowel wall. All tissues and organs of the body are now taking
on toxic substances. Here is the beginning of true autointoxication on a physiological level.
Bernard Jensen, Tissue Cleansing Through Bowel Management. [2] All maladies are due to the
lack of certain food principles, such as mineral salts or vitamins, or to the absence of the
normal defenses of the body, such as the natural protective flora. When this occurs, toxic
bacteria invade the lower alimentary canal, and the poisons thus generated pollute the bloodstream
and gradually deteriorate and destroy every tissue, gland and organ of the body. Sir Arbuthnot
Lane. [3] The common cause of gastro-intestinal indigestion is enervation and overeating When
food is not digested, it becomes a poison. Dr. John.H. Tilden, Impaired Health: Its Cause and
Cure, 1921. [4] a clogging up of the large intestine by a building up (on) the bowel wall to
such an extent that feces can hardly pass through. autointoxication is a direct result of intestinal
constipation. Faulty nutrition is a major underlying factor in constipation. The frequency
or quantity of fecal elimination is not an indication of the lack of constipation in the bowel.
Bernard Jensen, Tissue Cleansing Through Bowel Management.

I am not a true believer in any single healing method or system. I find much truth in many
schools and use a wide variety of techniques. The word for my inclination is eclectic.

The most effective medicine in my arsenal is water fasting followed closely in potency by other,
less rigorous detoxifying diets. Colon cleansing ranks next in healing power. In fact it is
difficult to separate colon cleansing from fasting because detoxification programs should always
be accompanied by colon cleansing. Further down the scale of efficatiousness comes dietary
reform to eliminate allergic reactions and to present the body with foods it is capable of
digesting without creating toxemia. Last, and usually least in effectiveness in my arsenal,
are orthotropic substances (in the form of little pills and capsules) commonly known as vitamins
or food supplements.

Interestingly, acceptance of these methods by my clients runs in exact opposition to their
effectiveness. People prefer taking vitamins because they seem like the allopaths' pills, taking
pills demands little or no responsibility for change. The least popular prescription I can
write is a monodiet of water for several weeks or a month. Yet this is my most powerful medicine.

It is possible to resolve many health complaints without fasting, simply by cleansing the colon
and regaining normal lower bowel function. Colonics take little personal effort and are much
easier to get people to accept than fasting. So I can fully understand how perfectly honest
and ethical naturopaths have developed obsessions with colon cleansing. Some healers have loudly
and repeatedly (and wrongly) proclaimed that constipation is the sole cause of disease, and
thus, the only real cure for any illness is colon cleansing.

Even though it is possible to have a lot of successes with the simple (though unpleasant to
administer) technique of colon cleansing, degenerated lower bowels are the only cause of disease.
I prefer to use bowel cleansing as an adjunct to more complete healing programs. However, old
classics of hygiene and even a few new books strongly make the case for colonics. Some of these
books are entirely one-sided, single-cause single-cure approaches, and sound convincing to
the layperson. For this reason, I think I should take a few paragraphs and explain why some
otherwise well-intentioned health professionals have overly-advocated colonics (and other practices
as well).

Most Diseases Cure Themselves

If you ask any honest medical doctor how they cure diseases, they will tell you that most acute
disease conditions and a smaller, though significant percentage (probably a majority) of chronic
disease conditions are self-limiting and will, given time, get better all by themselves. So
for most complaints, the honest allopathic doctor sees their job as giving comfort and easing
the severity of the symptoms until a cure happens.

This same scenario, when viewed from a hygienist's perspective, is that almost all acute and
many chronic conditions are simply the body's attempt to handle a crisis of toxemia. For two
reasons the current crisis will probably go away by itself. The positive reason is that the
toxic overload will be resolved: the person changes their dietary habits or the stressor that
temporarily lowered their vital force and produced enervation is removed, then digestion improves
and the level of self-generated toxins is reduced. The negative reason for a complaint to "cure"
itself is that the suffering person's vital force drops below the level that the symptom can
be manifested and the complaint goes away because a new, more serious disease is developing.

I view this second possibility as highly undesirable because strong, healthy bodies possessing
a high degree of vital force are able to eliminate toxins rather violently, frequently producing
very uncomfortable symptoms that are not life-threatening. However, as the vital force drops,
the body changes its routes of secondary elimination and begins using more centrally located
vital organs and systems to dispose of toxemia. This degeneration producing less unpleasant
symptoms, but in the long run, damages essential organs and moves the person closer to their
final disease.

A young vigorous body possessing a large degree of vital force will almost always route surplus
toxins through skin tissues and skin-like mucus membranes, producing repeated bouts of sinusitis,
or asthma, or colds, or a combination of all these. Each acute manifestation will "cure" itself
by itself eventually. But eventually the body's vital force can no longer create these aggressive
cleansing phenomena and the toxemia begins to go deeper. When the allopathic doctor gets a
patient complaining of sinusitis, they know they will eventually get a cure. The "cure" however,
might well be a case of arthritis.

This unfortunate reality tends to make young, idealistic physicians become rather disillusioned
about treating degenerative conditions because the end result of all their efforts is, in the
end, death anyway. The best they can do is to alleviate suffering and to a degree, prolong
life. The worst they can do is to prolong suffering.

Thus, the physicians main job is to get the patient to be patient, to wait until the body corrects
itself and stops manifesting the undesired symptom. Thus comes the prime rule of all humane
medicine: first of all, do no harm! If the doctor simply refrains from making the body worse,
it will probably get better by itself. But the patient, rarely resigned to quiet suffering,
comes in demanding fast relief, demanding a cure. In fact, if the patient were resigned to
quiet suffering they would not consult a doctor. So if the doctor wants to keep this patient
and make a living they must do something. If that something the doctor must do does little
or no harm and better yet, can also alleviate the symptoms, the doctor is practicing good medicine
and will have a very high cure rate and be financially successful if they have a good bedside
manner. This kind of doctor may be allopathic and/or "natural," may use herbs or practice homeopathy.

The story of Dr. Jennings, a very successful and famous or infamous (depending on your viewpoint)
physician, who practiced in Connecticut in the early 1800s exemplifies this type of approach.

Dr. Jennings had his own unique medicines. Their composition was of his own devising, and were
absolutely secret. He had pills and colored bitter drops of various sorts that were compounded
himself in his own pharmacy. Dr. Jennings' patients generally recovered and had few or no complications.
This must be viewed in contrast to the practices of his fellow doctors of that era, whose black
bags were full of mercury and arsenic and strychnine, whose practices included obligatory bleeding.
These techniques and medicines "worked" by poisoning the body or by reducing its blood supply
and thus lowering its vital force, ending the body's ability to manifest the undesirable symptom.
If the poor patient survived being victimized by their own physician, they were tough enough
to survive both their disease and the doctor's cure. Typically, the sick had many, lengthy
complications, long illnesses, and many "setbacks" requiring many visits, earning the physician
a great living.

Dr. Jennings operated differently. He would prescribe one or two secret medicines from his
black bag and instruct the patient to stay in bed, get lots of rest, drink lots of water, eat
little and lightly, and continue taking the medicine until they were well. His cure rate was
phenomenal. Demand they might, but Dr. Jennings would never reveal what was in his pills and
vials. Finally at the end of his career, to instruct his fellow man, Dr. Jennings confessed.
His pills were made from flour dough, various bitter but harmless herbal substances, and a
little sugar. His red and green and black tinctures, prescribed five or ten drips at a time
mixed in a glass of water several times daily, were only water and alcohol, some colorant and
something bitter tasting, but harmless. Placebos in other words.

Upon confessing, Dr. Jennings had to run for his life. I believe he ended up retiring on the
western frontier, in Indiana. Some of his former patients were extremely angry because they
had paid good money, top dollar for "real" medicines, but were given only flour and water.
The fact that they got better didn't seem to count.

If the physicians curative procedure suppresses the symptom and/or lowers the vital force with
toxic drugs or surgery, (either result will often as not end the complaint) the allopathic
doctor is practicing bad medicine. This doctor too will have a high cure rate and a good business
(if they have an effective bedside manner) because their drugs really do make the current symptoms
vanish very rapidly. Additionally, their practice harmonizes with a common but vicious dramatization
of many people which goes: when a body is malfunctioning, it is a bad body and needs to be
punished. So lets punish it with poisons and if that don't work, lets really punish it by cutting
out the offending part.

However, if the physician can do something that will do no harm but raises the vital force
and/or lowers the level of toxemia, this doctor will have a genuine cure rate higher than either
of the two techniques. Why does raising the vital force help? Because it reduces enervation,
improves the digestion, lowers the creation of new toxins and improves the function of the
organs of elimination, also reducing the toxic overload that is causing the complaint.

Techniques that temporarily and quickly raise the vital force include homeopathy, chiropractic,
vitamin therapy, massage, acupuncture and acupressure and many more spiritually oriented practices.
Healers who use these approaches and have a good bedside manner can have a very good business,
they can have an especially-profitable practice if they do nothing to lower the level of toxemia
being currently generated. Their patients do experience prompt relief but must repeatedly take
the remedy. This makes for satisfied customers and a repeat business.

The best approach of all focuses on reducing the self-generated level of toxemia, cleansing
to remove deposits of old toxemia, rebuilding the organs of elimination and digestion to prevent
the formation of new toxemia, and then, to alleviate the current symptoms and make it easier
for the patient to be patient while their body heals, the healer raises artificially and temporarily
the vital force with vitamins, massage, acupressure, etc. This wise and benevolent physician
is going to have the highest cure rate among those wise patients who will accept the prescription,
but will not make as much money because the patients permanently get better and no longer need
a physician. There's not nearly as much repeat business.

Colonics are one of the best types of medicine. They clean up deposits of old toxemia (though
there are sure to be other deposits in the body's tissues colonics do not touch). Colon cleansing
reduces the formation of new toxemia from putrefying fecal matter (but dietary reform is necessary
to maximize this benefit). Most noticeable to the patient, a colonic immediately alleviates
current symptoms by almost instantly reducing the current toxic load. A well-done enema or
colonic is such a powerful technique that a single one will often make a severe headache vanish,
make an onsetting cold go away, end a bout of sinusitis, end an asthmatic attack, reduce the
pain of acute arthritic inflammation, reduce or stop an allergic reaction. Enemas are also
thrifty: they are self-administered and can prevent most doctor's visits seeking relief for
acute conditions.

Diseases of the colon itself, including chronic constipation, colitis, diverteculitis, hemorrhoids,
irritable bowel syndrome, and mucous colitis, are often cured solely by an intensive series
of several dozen colonics given close together. Contrary to popular belief, many people think
that if they have dysentery or other forms of loose stools that a colonic is the last thing
they need. Surprisingly, a series of colonics will eliminate many of these conditions as well.
People with chronic diarrhea or loose stools are usually very badly constipated. This may seem
a contradiction in terms but it will be explained shortly.

A century ago there was much less scientific data about the functioning of the human body.
Then it was easy for a hygienically-oriented physician to come to believe that colonics were
the single best medicine available. The doctor practicing nothing but colonics will have a
very high rate of cure and a lot of very satisfied clients. Most importantly, this medicine
will have done no harm.

The Repugnant Bowel

I don't know why, but people of our culture have a deep-seated reluctance to relate to the
colon or it's functions. People don't want to think about the colon or personally get involved
with it by giving themselves enemas or colonics. They become deeply embarrassed at having someone
else do it for them. People are also shy about farts, and most Americans have a hard time not
smiling or reacting in some way when someone in their presence breaks wind, although the polite
amongst us pretend that we didn't notice. Comedians usually succeed in getting a laugh out
of an audience when they come up with a fart or make reference to some other bowel function.
People don't react the same way to urinary functions or discharges, although these also may
have an unpleasant odor and originate from the same "private" area.

When I first mention to clients that they need a minimum of 12 colonics or many more enemas
than 12 during a fasting or cleansing program they are inevitably shocked. To most it seems
that no one in their right mind would recommend such a treatment, and that I must certainly
be motivated by greed or some kind of a psychological quirk. Then I routinely show them reproductions
of X-rays of the large intestine showing obvious loss of normal structure and function resulting
from a combination of constipation, the effects of gravity, poor abdominal muscle tone, emotional
stress, and poor diet. In the average colon more than 50% of the hastrum (muscles that impel
fecal matter through the organ) are dysfunctional due to loss of tone caused by impaction of
fecal matter and/or constriction of the large intestine secondary to stress (holding muscular
tension in the abdominal area) and straining during bowel movement.

A typical diseased colon

The average person also has a prolapsed (sagging) transverse colon, and a distorted misplaced
ascending and descending colon. I took a course in colon therapy before purchasing my first
colonic machine. The chiropractor teaching the class required all of his patients scheduled
for colonics to take a barium enema followed by an X-ray of their large intestine prior to
having colonics and then make subsequent X-rays after each series of 12 colonics. Most of his
patients experienced so much immediate relief they voluntarily took at least four complete
series, or 48 colonics, before their X-rays began to look normal in terms of structure. It
also took about the same number, 48 colonics, for the patients to notice a significant improvement
in the function of the colon. In reviewing over 10,000 X-rays taken at his clinic prior to
starting colonics, the chiropractor had seen only two normal colon X-rays and these were from
farm boys who grew up eating simple foods from the garden and doing lots of hard work.

The X-rays showed that it took a minimum of 12 colon treatments to bring about a minimal but
observable change in the structure of the colon in the desired direction, and for the patient
to begin to notice that bowel function was improving, plus the fact that they started to feel
better.

A Healthy Colon

From my point of view the most amazing part of this whole experience was that the chiropractor
did not recommend any dietary changes whatsoever. His patients were achieving great success
from colonics alone. I had thought dietary changes would be necessary to avoid having the same
dismal bowel condition return. I still think colonics are far more effective if people are
on a cleansing diet too. However, I was delighted to see the potential for helping people through
colonics.

For me, the most interesting part of this colonic school was that I personally was required
to have my own barium enema and X-ray. I was privately certain that mine would look normal,
because after all, I had been on a raw food diet for six years, and done considerable amount
of fasting, all of which was reputed to repair a civilized colon. Much to my surprise my colon
looked just as mangled and dysfunctional as everyone else's', only somewhat worse because it
had a loop in the descending colon similar to a cursive letter "e" which doctors call a volvulus.
Surgeons like to cut volvululii out because they frequently cause bowel obstructions. It seemed
quite unfair. All those other people with lousy looking colons had been eating the average
American diet their whole life, but I had been so 'pure!'

On further reflection I remembered that I had a tendency toward constipation all through my
childhood and young adulthood, and that during my two pregnancies the pressure of the fetus
on an already constipated bowel had made it worse resulting in the distorted structure seen
in the X-ray. This experience made it very clear that fasting, cleansing diets, and corrected
diet would not reverse damage already done. Proper diet and fasting would however, prevent
the condition of the colon from getting any worse than it already was.

I then realized that I had just purchased the very tool I needed to correct my own colon, and
I was eager to get home to get started on it. I had previously thought that I was just going
to use this machine for my patients, because they had been asking for this kind of an adjunct
to my services for some time. I ended up giving myself over a hundred colonics at the rate
of three a week over many months. I then out of curiosity had another barium enema and X-ray
to validate my results. Sure enough the picture showed a colon that looked far more 'normal'
with no vulvulus. That little "e" had disappeared.

What Is Constipation?

Most people think they are not constipated because they have a bowel movement almost every
day, accomplished without straining. I have even had clients tell me that they have a bowel
movement once a week, and they are quite certain that they are not constipated. The most surprising
thing to novice fasters is that repeated enemas or colonics during fasting begins to release
many pounds of undeniably real, old, caked fecal matter and/or huge mucus strings. The first-time
faster can hardly believe these were present. These old fecal deposits do not come out the
first time one has enemas or necessarily the fifth time. And all of them will not be removed
by the tenth enema. But over the course of extended fasting or a long spell of light raw food
eating with repeated daily enemas, amazing changes do begin to occur. It seems that no one
who has eaten a civilized diet has escaped the formation of caked deposits lining the colon's
walls, interfering with its function. This material does not respond to laxatives or casually
administered enemas.

Anyone who has not actually seen (and smelled) what comes out of an "average" apparently healthy
person during colonics will really believe it could happen or can accurately imagine it. Often
there are dark black lumpy strings, lumps, or gravel, evil smelling discs shaped like sculpted
hemispheres similar to the pockets lining the wall of the colon itself. These discs are rock-hard
and may come out looking like long black braids. There may also be long tangled strings of
gray/brown mucous, sheets and flakes of mucous, and worse yet, an occasional worm (tape worm)
or many smaller ones. Once confronted however, it is not hard to imagine how these fecal rocks
and other obnoxious debris interfere with the proper function of the colon. They make the colon's
wall rigid and interfere with peristalsis thus leading to further problems with constipation,
and interfere with adsorption of nutrients.

Our modern diet is by its "de-"nature, very constipating. In the trenches of the First World
War, cheese was given the name 'chokem ass' because the soldiers eating this as a part of their
daily ration developed severe constipation. Eaten by itself or with other whole foods, moderate
amounts of cheese may not produce health problems in people who are capable of digesting dairy
products. But cheese when combined with white flour becomes especially constipating. White
bread or most white-flour crackers contain a lot of gluten, a very sticky wheat protein that
makes the bread bind together and raise well. But white flour is lacking the bran, where most
of the fiber is located. And many other processed foods are missing their fiber.

In an earlier chapter I briefly showed how digestion works by following food from the mouth
to the large intestine. To fully grasp why becoming constipated is almost a certainty in our
civilization a few more details are required. Food leaving the small intestine is called chyme,
a semi-liquid mixture of fiber, undigested bits, indigestible bits, and the remains of digestive
enzymes. Chyme is propelled through the large intestine by muscular contractions. The large
intestine operates on what I dub the "chew chew train" principle, where the most recent meal
you ate enters the large intestine as the caboose (the last car of a train) and helps to push
out the train engine (the car at the front that toots), which in a healthy colon should represent
the meal eaten perhaps twelve hours earlier. The muscles in the colon only contract when they
are stretched, so it is the volume of the fecal matter stretching the large intestine that
triggers the muscles to push the waste material along toward the rectum and anus.

Eating food lacking fiber greatly reduces the volume of the chyme and slows peristalsis. But
moving through fast or slow, the colon still keeps on doing another of its jobs, which is to
transfer the water in the chime back into the bloodstream, reducing dehydration. So the longer
chime remains in the colon, the dryer and harder and stickier it gets. That's why once arrived
at the "end of the tracks" fecal matter should be evacuated in a timely manner before it gets
to dry and too hard to be moved easily. Some constipated people do have a bowel movement every
day but are evacuating the meal eaten many days or even a week previously.

Most hygienists believe that when the colon becomes lined with hardened fecal matter it is
permanently and by the very definition of the word itself, constipated. This type of constipation
is not perceived as an uncomfortable or overly full feeling or a desire to have a bowel movement
that won't pass. But it has insidious effects. Usually constipation delays transit time, increasing
the adsorption of toxins generated from misdigestion of food; by coating and locking up significant
portions of colon it also reduces the adsorption of certain minerals and electrolytes.

Sometimes, extremely constipated people have almost constant runny bowels because the colon
has become so thickly and impenetrably lined with old fecal matter that it no longer removes
much moisture. This condition is often misinterpreted as diarrhea. The large intestine's most
important task is to transfer water-soluble minerals from digested food to the blood. When
a significant part of the colon's surface becomes coated with impermeable dried rigid fecal
matter or mucus it can no longer assimilate effectively and the body begins to experience partial
mineral starvation in the presence of plenty. It is my observation from dozens of cases that
when the colon has been effectively cleansed the person has a tendency to gain weight while
eating amounts of food that before only maintained body weight, while people who could not
gain weight or who were wasting away despite eating heavily begin to gain. And problems like
soft fingernails, bone loss around teeth or porous bones tend to improve.

The Development Of My Own Constipation

The history of my own constipation, though it especially relates to a very rustic childhood,
is typical of many people. I was also raised on a very constipating diet which consisted largely
of processed cheese and crackers. Mine was accelerated by shyness, amplified by lack of comfortable
facilities.

I spent my early years on the Canadian prairies, where everybody had an outhouse. The fancy
modern versions are frequently seen on construction sites. These are chemical toilets, quiet
different than the ones I was raised with because somebody or something mysteriously comes
along, empties them and installs toilet paper. The ones I'm familiar with quickly developed
a bad-smelling steaming mound in the center--or it was winter when the outhouse was so cold
that everything froze almost before it hit the ground in the hole below. (And my rear end seemed
to almost freeze to the seat!) The toilet paper was usually an out of season issue of Eatons
mail order catalogue with crisp glossy paper. Perhaps it is a peculiarity of the north country,
but at night there are always monsters lurking along the path to the outhouse, and darkness
comes early and stays late.

When nature called and it was daylight, and there was no blizzard outside, the outhouse received
a visit from me. If on the other hand, when it was dark (we had no electricity), and there
was a cold wind creating huge banks of snow, I would 'just skip it,' because the alternative--an
indoor chamber pot, white enamel with a lid--was worse. This potty had to be used more or less
publicly because the bedrooms were shared and there was no indoor bathroom. I was always very
modest about my private parts and private functions, and potty's were only used in emergencies,
and usually with considerable embarrassment. No one ever explained to me that it was not good
for me to retain fecal matter, and I never thought about it unless my movements became so hard
that it was painful to eliminate.

Later in life, I continued this pattern of putting off bowel movements, even though outhouses
and potties were a thing of the past. As a young adult I could always think of something more
interesting to do than sitting on a pot, besides it was messy and sometimes accompanied by
embarrassing sound effects which were definitely not romantic if I was in the company of a
young man. During two pregnancies the tendency to constipation was aggravated by the weight
of the fetus resting on an already sluggish bowel, and the discomfort of straining to pass
my first hard bowel movement after childbirth with a torn perineum I won't forget.

Rapid Relief From Colon Cleansing

During fasting the liver is hard at work processing toxins released from fat and other body
deposits. The liver still dumps its wastes into the intestines through the bile duct. While
eating normally, bile, which contains highly toxic substances, is passed through the intestines
and is eliminated before too much is reabsorbed. (It is the bile that usually makes the fecal
matter so dark in color.) However, reduction of food bulk reduces or completely eliminates
peristalsis, thus allowing intestinal contents to sit for extended periods. And the toxins
in the bile are readsorbed, forming a continuous loop, further burdening the liver.

The mucus membranes lining the colon constantly secrete lubricants to ease fecal matter through
smoothly. This secretion does not stop during fasting; in fact, it may increase because intestinal
mucus often becomes a secondary route of elimination. Allowed to remain in the bowel, toxic
mucus is an irritant while the toxins in it may be reabsorbed, forming yet another closed loop
and further burdening the liver.

Daily enemas or colonics administered during fasting or while on cleansing diets effectively
remove old fecal material stored in the colon and immediately ease the livers load, immediately
relieve discomfort by allowing the liver's efforts to further detoxify the blood, and speed
healing. Fasters cleansing on juice or raw food should administer two or three enemas in short
succession every day for the first three days to get a good start on the cleansing process,
and then every other day or at very minimum, every few days. Enemas or colonics should also
be taken whenever symptoms become uncomfortable, regardless of whether you have already cleaned
the colon that day or not. Once the faster has experienced the relief from symptoms that usually
comes from an enema they become more than willing to repeat this mildly unpleasant experience.

Occasionally enemas, by filling the colon and making it press on the liver, induce discharges
of highly toxic bile that may cause temporary nausea. Despite the induced nausea it is still
far better to continue with colonics because of the great relief experienced after the treatment.
If nausea exists or persists during colon cleansing, consider trying slight modifications such
as less or no massage of the colon in the area of the gall bladder (abdominal area close to
the bottom of the right rib cage), and putting slightly less water in the colon when filling
it up. It also helps to make sure that the stomach is empty of any fluid for one hour prior
to the colonic. Resume drinking after the colonic sessions is completed. If you are one of
these rare people who 'toss their bile', just keep a plastic bucket handy and some water to
rinse out the mouth after, and carry on as usual.

Enemas Versus Colonics

People frequently wonder what is the difference between a colonic and an enema.

First of all enemas are a lot cheaper because you give them to yourself; an enema bag usually
costs about ten dollars, is available at any large drug store, and is indefinitely reusable.
Colonics cost anywhere from 30 to 75 dollars a session.

Chiropractors and naturopaths who offer this service hire a colonic technician that may or
may not be a skilled operator. It is a good idea to find a person who has a very agreeable
and professional manner, who can make you feel at ease since relaxation is very important.
It is also beneficial to have a colonic therapist who massages the abdomen and foot reflexes
appropriately during the session.

Enemas and colonics can accomplish exactly the same beneficial work. But colonics accomplish
more improvement in less time than enemas for several reasons. During a colonic from 30 to
50 gallons of water are flushed through the large intestines, usually in a repetitive series
of fill-ups followed by flushing with a continuous flow of water. This efficiency cannot even
be approached with an enema. But by repeating the enema three times in close succession a satisfactory
cleanse can be achieved. Persisted with long enough, enemas will clean the colon every bit
as well as a colonic machine can.

Enemas given at home take a lot less time than traveling to receive a colonics at someone's
clinic, and can be done entirely at you own convenience--a great advantage when fasting because
you can save your energy for internal healing. But colonics are more appropriate for some.
There are fasters who are unable to give themselves an enema either because their arms are
too short and their body is too long and they lack flexibility, or because of a physical handicap
or they can't confront their colon, so they let someone else do it. Some don't have the motivation
to give themselves a little discomfort but are comfortable with someone else doing it to them.
Some very sick people are too weak to cleanse their own colon, so they should find someone
to assist them with an at-home enema or have someone take them to a colonic therapist.

Few people these days have any idea how to properly give themselves an enema. The practice
has been discredited by traditional medical doctors as slightly dangerous, perhaps addictive
and a sign of psychological weirdness. Yet Northamericans on their civilized, low fiber, poorly
combined diets suffer widely from constipation. One proof of this is the fact that chemical
laxatives, with their own set of dangers and liabilities, occupy many feet of drug store shelf
space and are widely advertised. Is the medical profession's disapproval of the enema related
to the fact that once the initial purchase of an enema bag has been made there are no further
expenses for laxatives? Or perhaps it might be that once a person discovers they can cure a
headache, stop a cold dead in its tracks with an enema, they aren't visiting the M.D.s so often.

The enema has also been wrongly accused of causing a gradual loss of colon muscle tone, eventually
preventing bowel movements without the stimulation of an enema, leading finally to flaccidity
and enlargement of the lower bowel. This actually can happen; when it does occur it is the
result of frequent administration of small amounts of water (fleet enemas) for the purpose
of stimulating a normal bowel movement. The result is constant stretching of the rectum without
sufficient fluid to enter the descending colon. A completely opposite, highly positive effect
comes from properly administered enemas while cleansing.

The difference between helpful and potentially harmful enemas lies in the amount of water injected
and the frequency of use. Using a cup or two of water to induce a bowel movement may eventually
cause dependency, will not strengthen the colon and may after years of this practice, result
in distention and enlargement of the rectum or sigmoid colon. However, a completely empty average-sized
colon has the capacity of about a gallon of water. When increasingly larger enemas are administered
until the colon is nearly emptied of fecal matter and the injection of close to a gallon of
water is achieved, beneficial exercise and an increase in overall muscle tone are the results.

Correctly given, enemas (and especially colonics) serve as strengthening exercises for the
colon. This long tubular muscle is repeatedly and completely filled with water, inducing it
to vigorously exercise while evacuating itself multiple times. The result is a great increase
in muscle tone, acceleration of peristalsis and eventually, after several dozens of repetitions,
a considerable reduction of transit time. Well-done enemas work the colon somewhat less effectively
and do not improve muscle tone quite as much as colonics.

Injecting an entire gallon of water with an enema bag is very impractical when a person is
eating normally. But on a light cleansing diet or while fasting the amount of new material
passing into the colon is small or negligible. During the first few days of fasting if two
or three enemas are administered each day in immediate succession the colon is soon completely
emptied of recently eaten food and it becomes progressively easier to introduce larger amounts
of water. Within a few days of this regimen, injecting half a gallon or more of water is easy
and painless.

Probably for psychological reasons, some peoples' colons allow water to be injected one time
but then "freeze up" and resist successive enemas. For this reason better results are often
obtained by having one enema, waiting a half hour, another enema, wait a half hour, and have
a final enema.

A colonic machine in the hands of an expert operator can administer the equivalent of six or
seven big enemas in less than one hour, and do this without undue discomfort or effort from
the person receiving the colonic. However, the AMA has suppressed the use of colonics; they
are illegal to administer in many states. Where colonics are legal, the chiropractors now consider
this practice messy and not very profitable compared to manipulations. So it is not easy to
find a skilled and willing colonic technician.

Anyone who plans to give themselves therapeutic enemas while fasting would be well advised
to first seek out a colonic therapist and receive two or three colonics delivered one day apart
while eating lightly and then immediately begin the fast. Three colonics given on three successive
days of a light, raw food diet are sufficient to empty all recently eaten food even from a
very constipated, distended and bloated colon, while acquainting a person with their own bowel.
Having an empty colon is actually a pleasant and to most people a thoroughly novel experience.
A few well-delivered colonics can quickly accustom a person to the sensations accompanying
the enema and demonstrate the effect to be achieved by oneself with an enema bag, something
not quickly discoverable any other way.

How To Give Yourself An Enema

Enemas have been medically out of favor for a long time. Most people have never had one. So
here are simple directions to self-administer an effective enema series.

The enema bag you select is important. It must hold at least two quarts and be rapidly refillable.
The best American-made brand is made of rubber with about five feet of rubber hose ending in
one of two different white hard plastic insertion tips. The bag is designed for either enemas
or vaginal douches. It hangs from a detachable plastic "S" hook. When filled to the brim it
holds exactly one-half gallon. The maker of this bag offers another model that costs about
a dollar more and also functions as a hot water bottle. A good comforter it may make, but the
dual purpose construction makes the bag very awkward to rapidly refill. I recommend the inexpensive
model.

The plastic insertion tips vary somewhat. The straight tubular tip is intended for enemas;
the flared vaginal douche tip can be useful for enemas too, in that it somewhat restrains unintentional
expulsion of the nozzle while filling the colon. However, its four small holes do not allow
a very rapid rate of flow.

To give yourself an enema, completely fill the bag with tepid water that does not exceed body
temperature. The rectum is surprisingly sensitive to heat and you will flinch at temperatures
only a degree or two higher than 98 Fahrenheit. Cooler water is no problem; some find the cold
stimulating and invigorating. Fasters having difficulty staying warm should be wary of cold
water enemas. These can drop core body temperature below the point of comfort.

Make sure the flow clamp on the tube is tightly shut and located a few inches up the tube from
the nozzle. Hang the filled bag from a clothes or towel hook, shower nozzle, curtain rod, or
other convenient spot about four to five feet above the bathroom floor or tub bottom. The higher
the bag the greater the water pressure and speed of filling. But too much pressure can also
be uncomfortable. You may have to experiment a bit with this.

Various body positions are possible for filling the colon. None is correct or necessarily more
effective than another. Experiment and find the one you prefer. Some fill their colon kneeling
and bending forward in the bathtub or shower because there will likely be small dribbles of
water leaking from around the nozzle. Usually these leaks do not contain fecal matter. Others
prefer to use the bathroom floor. For the bony, a little padding in the form of a folded towel
under knees and elbows may make the process more comfortable. You may kneel and bend over while
placing your elbows or hands on the floor, reach behind yourself and insert the nozzle. You
may also lie on your back or on your side. Some think the left side is preferable because the
colon attaches to the rectum on the left side of the body, ascends up the left side of the
abdomen to a line almost as high as the solar plexus, then transverses the body to the right
side where it descends again on the right almost to the groin. The small intestine attaches
to the colon near its lower-right extremity. In fact these are the correct names given for
the parts of the colon: Ascending, Descending and Transverse Colon along with the Sigmoid Colon
or Rectum at the exit end.

As you become more expert at filling your colon with water you will begin to become aware of
its location by the weight, pressure and sometimes temperature of the water you're injecting.
You will come to know how much of the colon has been filled by feel. You will also become aware
of peristalsis as the water is evacuated vigorously and discover that sensations from a colon
hard at work, though a bit uncomfortable, are not necessarily pain.

Insertion of the nozzle is sometimes eased with a little lubricant. A bit of soap or KY jelly
is commonly used. If the nozzle can be inserted without lubricant it will have less tendency
to slip out. However, do not tear or damage the anus by avoiding necessary lubrication. After
insertion, grip the clamp with one hand and open it. The flow rate can be controlled with this
clamp. Keeping a hand on the clamp also prevents the nozzle from being expelled.

Water will begin flowing into the colon. Your goal is to empty the entire bag into the colon
before sensations of pressure or urgency to evacuate the water force you to remove the nozzle
and head for the toilet. Relaxation of mind and body helps achieve this. You are very unlikely
to achieve a half-gallon fill up on the first attempt. If painful pressure is experienced try
closing the clamp for a moment to allow the water to begin working its way around the obstacle.
Or, next time try hanging the bag lower, reducing its height above the body and thus lowering
the water pressure. Or, try opening the clamp only partially. Or, try panting hard, so as to
make the abdomen move rapidly in and out, sort of shaking the colon. This last technique is
particularly good to get the water past a blockage of intestinal gas.

It is especially important for Americans, whose culture does not teach one to be tolerant of
discomfort, to keep in mind that pain is the body's warning that actual damage is being done
to tissues. Enemas can do no damage and pose no risk except to that rare individual with weak
spots in the colon's wall from cancers. When an enema is momentarily perceived unpleasantly,
the correct name for the experience is a sensation, not pain. You may have to work at increasing
your tolerance for unpleasant sensations or it will take you a long time to achieve the goal
of totally filling the colon with water. Be brave! And relax. A wise philosopher once said
that it is a rough Universe in which only the tigers survive--and sometimes they have a hard time.

Eventually it will be time to remove the nozzle and evacuate the water. Either a blockage (usually
fecal matter, an air bubble, or a tight 'U' turn in the colon, usually at either the splenetic,
or hepatic flexures located right below the rib cage) will prevent further inflow (undesirable)
or else the bag will completely empty (good!) or the sensation of bursting will no longer be
tolerable. Go sit on the toilet and wait until all the water has passed. Then refill the bag
and repeat the process. Each time you fill the colon it will allow more water to enter more
easily with less unpleasantness. Fasters and cleansers should make at least three attempts
at a complete fill-up each time they do an enema session.

Water and juice fasters will find that after the first few enemas, it will become very easy
to inject the entire half-gallon of water. That is because there is little or no chime entering
the colon. After a few days the entire colon will seem (this is incorrect) to be empty except
when it is filled with water. This is the point to learn an advanced self-administered enema
technique. An average colon empty of new food will usually hold about one gallon of water.
That is average. A small colon might only hold 3/4 gallon, a large one might accept a gallon
and a half, or even more. You'll need to learn to simultaneously refill the bag while injecting
water, so as to achieve a complete irrigation of the whole colon. There are several possible
methods. You might try placing a pitcher or half-gallon mason jar of tepid water next to the
bag and after the bag has emptied the first time, stand up while holding the tube in the anus,
refill the bag and then lie down again and continue filling. You might have an assistant do
this for you. You might try hanging the bag from the shower head and direct a slow, continuous
dribble of lukewarm water from the shower into the bag while you kneel or lie relaxed in the
tub. This way the bag will never empty and you stop filling only when you feel fullness and
pressure all the way back to the beginning of the ascending colon. Of course, hanging from
a slowly running shower head the bag will probably overflow and you will get splashed and so
will the bathroom floor when your wet body moves rapidly from the tub to the toilet. I've imagined
making an enema bag from a two gallon plastic bucket with a small plastic hose barb glued into
a hole drilled in the bottom or lower edge. If I were in the business of manufacturing enema
bags I'd make them hold at least one gallon.

A word of caution to those folks who have a pattern of overdoing it, or tend to think that
more is better. This is not true when it comes to colon cleansing. Do not make more than three
attempts to fill and clean the colon with an enema bag. Usually the colon begins to protest
and won't accept any more fill-ups. When having colonics on a colonic machine it is a good
idea to continue until the water comes back reasonably clear for that session. It is not a
good idea for a faster to have colonics that last more than three-quarters of an hour to an
hour maximum, or it will be too tiring. Even non-fasters find colonics tiring. After all, the
colon is basically a big muscle that has become very lazy on a low-fiber diet.

I've personally administered over five thousand colonics, taught several dozen fasters to self-administer
their own and stood by while they gave themselves one until they were quite expert. In all
that experience I've only seen one person have a seriously bad result. This was a suicidally
depressed water faster that I (mistakenly) allowed to administer their own colonics with my
machine. This person not only took daily colonics, but allowed water to flow through their
colon for as long as two hours at a time. Perhaps they were trying to wash out their mind?
After several weeks of this extreme excess, the faster became highly confused and disoriented
due to a severe electrolyte imbalance. They had to be taken off water fasting immediately and
recovered their mental clarity in a few days. The loss of blood electrolytes happened because
during colonics there occurs a sort of low-grade very slow reverse osmosis.

Curing With Enemas

It is not wise to continue regular colonics or enemas once a detoxification program has been
completed and you have returned to a maintenance diet. The body should be allowed its regular
functioning.

But because enemas immediately lower the toxic load on the liver, I do recommend people use
them for prevention of an acute illness (you feel like you are coming down with something),
and for the treatment of acute illnesses such as a cold. I also like to take one if I have
been away traveling for extended periods, eating carelessly. But do not fall into a pattern
of bingeing on bad food, and then trying to get rid of it through colonics or laxative. This
is bulimia, the eating disorder discussed earlier.

The Sheltonite capital "N" Natural capital "H" Hygienists do not recommend any colon cleansing,
ever! They think that the colon will spontaneously cleanse itself on a long water fast, but
my experience learned from monitoring hundreds of fasters is that it doesn't really. Herbert
Shelton also considered colon cleansing enervating and therefore undesirable. Colon cleansing
does use the faster's energy but on the balance, colon cleansing saves more work on the part
of an overburdened liver than it uses up.

Chapter Five

Diet and Nutrition

From The Hygienic Dictionary

Food. [1] Life is a tragedy of nutrition. In food lies 99.99% of the causes of all diseases
and imperfect health of any kind. Prof. Arnold Ehret, Mucusless Diet Healing System. [2] But
elimination will never heal perfectly just so long as you fail to discontinue the supply of
inside waste caused by eating and "wrong" eating. You may clean and continue to clean indefinitely,
but never with complete results up to a perfect cleanliness, as long as the intake of wrong
or even too much right foods, is not stopped. Prof. Arnold Ehret, Mucusless Diet Healing System.
[3] Cooked food favors bacterial, or organized, ferment preponderance, because cooking kills
the unorganized and organized ferments, and both are needed to carry on the body's digestion.
Raw foods--fruits and vegetables--favor unorganized ferment digestion, because these foods
carry vitamins, which are unorganized ferments--enzymes. Dr. John. H. Tilden, Impaired Health:
Its Cause and Cure, 1921.

Recently, my younger (adult) daughter asked my advice choosing between a root canal or having
a bridge made. This led to a discussion of her eating habits in general. Defending her currently
less-than-optimum diet against my gentle criticism, she threw me a tough riposte. "Why," she
asked, when I was raised so perfectly as a child, "when I ate only Organic food until I was
ten and old enough to make you send me to public school where I could eat those lousy school
lunches" (her unfeeling, heartless mother home-schooled her), "why even at that young age,
(before she spent her adolescent rebellion eating junk food) why at that point did I still
have a mouthful of cavities?" And she did. At age ten my daughter needed about ten fillings.

This beautiful daughter of a practicing naturopath had received what, at the time, I considered
virtually perfect nutrition. She suckled hugely at her mother's abundant breast until age two.
During this time her mother ate a natural foods diet. After weaning my daughter got only whole
grains, a little fresh goat's milk from my goat, fruits and lots of Organic vegetables. I started
my spa when my daughter was about five years old and from that point she was, like it or not,
a raw fooder. And all that raw food was Organic and much of it from Great Oaks School's huge
vegetable garden.

For my daughter to develop cavities on this diet is reminiscent of Woody Allen's joke in his
movie "Sleeper." Do you recall this one, made about 1973? The plot is a take off on Rip Van
Winkle. Woody goes into the hospital for minor surgery. Unexpectedly he expires on the operating
table and his body is frozen in hopes that someday he can be revived. One hundred and fifty
years later he is revived.

The priceless scene I always think of takes place in his hospital room immediately after he
comes to consciousness. The doctor in charge of his case is explaining to Woody what has happened.
Woody refuses to believe he died and was frozen, asserting that the whole story is a put on.
Woody insists that the 'doctor' is clearly an actor hired by his friends! It absolutely can't
be the year 2123. 'Oh, but it really is 2123,' insists the doctor. 'And it is no put on by
his friends; all his friends are long dead; Woody knows no one at all in 2123 and had better
prepare himself to start a new life.'

Woody still insists it is a put on. "I had a healthfood store," he says, "and all my friends
ate brown rice. They can't be dead!"

And my perfectly nourished daughter couldn't have developed cavities! But she did. And if she
cheated on her perfect diet, bad food could not have amounted to more than two percent of her
total caloric intake from birth to age ten. I was a responsible mom and I made sure she ate
right! Now my daughter was demanding to know why she had tooth decay. Fortunately, I now know
the answer. The answer is rather complex, but I can give a simplified explanation.

The Confusions About Diets and Foods

Like my daughter, many people of all ages are muddled about the relationship between health
and diet. Their confusions have created a profitable market for health-related information.
And equally, their confusions have been created by books, magazine articles, and TV news features.
This avalanche of data is highly contradictory. In fact, one reason I found it hard to make
myself write my own book is that I wondered if my book too would become just another part of
the confusion.

Few people are willing to tolerate very much uncertainty. Rather than live with the discomfort
of not knowing why, they will create an explanation or find some answer, any answer, and then
ever after, assert its rightness like a shipwrecked person clings to a floating spar in a storm.
This is how I explain the genesis of many contemporary food religions.

Appropriately new agey and spiritual, Macrobiotics teaches the way to perfect health is to
eat like a Japanese whole foods vegetarian--the endless staple being brown rice, some cooked
vegetables and seaweeds, meanwhile balancing the "yin" and "yang" of the foods. And Macrobiotics
works great for a lot of people. But not all people. Because there's next to nothing raw in
the Macrobiotic diet and some people are allergic to rice, or can get allergic to rice on that
diet.

Linda Clark's Diet for a Small Planet also has hundreds of thousands of dedicated followers.
This system balances the proportions of essential amino acids at every, single meal and is
vegetarian. This diet also works and really helps some people, but not as well as Macrobiotics
in my opinion because obsessed with protein, Clark's diet contains too many hard-to-digest
soy products and makes poor food combinations from the point of digestive capacity.

Then there are the raw fooders. Most of them are raw, Organic fooders who go so far as to eat
only unfired, unground cereals that have been soaked in warm water (at less than 115 degrees
or you'll kill the enzymes) for many hours to soften the seeds up and start them sprouting.
This diet works and really helps a lot of people. Raw organic foodism is especially good for
"holy joes," a sort of better-than-everyone-else person who enjoys great self-righteousness
by owning this system. But raw fooding does not help all people nor solve all diseases because
raw food irritates the digestive tracts of some people and in northern climates it is hard
to maintain body heat on this diet because it is difficult to consume enough concentrated vegetable
food in a raw state. And some raw fooders eat far too much fruit. I've seen them lose their
teeth because of fruit's low mineral content, high sugar level and constant fruit acids in
their mouths.

Then there are vegetarians of various varieties including vegans (vegetarians that will not
eat dairy products and eggs), and then, there are their exact opposites, Atkins dieters focusing
on protein and eating lots of meat. There's the Adelle Davis school, people eating whole grains,
handfuls of vitamins, lots of dairy and brewers yeast and wheat germ, and even raw liver. Then
there's the Organic school. These folks will eat anything in any combination, just so long
as it is organically produced, including organically raised beef, chicken, lamb, eggs, rabbit,
wild meats, milk and diary products, natural sea salt in large quantities and of course, organically
grown fruits, vegetables grains and nuts. And what is "Organic?" The word means food raised
in compliance with a set of rules contrived by a certification bureaucracy. When carefully
analyzed, the somewhat illogical rules are not all that different in spirit than the rules
of kashsruth or kosher. And the Organic certification bureaucrats aren't all that different
than the rabbis who certify food as being kosher, either.

There are now millions of frightened Americans who, following the advice of mainstream Authority,
have eliminated red meat from their diets and greatly reduced what they (mistakenly) understand
as high-cholesterol foods.

All these diets work too--or some--and all demonstrate some of the truth.

The only area concerning health that contains more confusion and contradictory data than diet
is vitamins. What a rats nest that is!

The Fundamental Principle

If you are a true believer in any of the above food religions, I expect that you will find
my views unsettling. But what I consider "good diet" results from my clinical work with thousands
of cases. It is what has worked with those cases. My eclectic views incorporate bits and pieces
of all the above. In my own case, I started out by following the Organic school, and I was
once a raw food vegetarian who ate nothing but raw food for six years. I also ate Macrobiotic
for about one year until I became violently allergic to rice.

I have arrived at a point where I understand that each person's biochemistry is unique and
each must work out their own diet to suit their life goals, life style, genetic predisposition
and current state of health. There is no single, one, all-encompassing, correct diet. But,
there is a single, basic, underlying Principle of Nutrition that is universally true. In its
most simplified form, the basic equation of human health goes: Health = Nutrition / Calories.
The equation falls far short of explaining the origin of each individuals diseases or how to
cure diseases but Health = Nutrition / Calories does show the general path toward healthful
eating and proper medicine.

All animals have the exact same dietary problem: finding enough nutrition to build and maintain
their bodies within the limits of their digestive capacity. Rarely in nature (except for predatory
carnivores) is there any significant restriction on the number of calories or serious limitation
of the amount of low-nutrition foods available to eat. There's rarely any shortage of natural
junk food on Earth. Except for domesticated house pets, animals are sensible enough to prefer
the most nutritional fare available and tend to shun empty calories unless they are starving.

But humans are perverse, not sensible. Deciding on the basis of artificially-created flavors,
preferring incipid textures, we seem to prefer junk food and become slaves to our food addictions.
For example, in tropical countries there is a widely grown root crop, called in various places:
tapioca, tavioca, manioc, or yuca. This interesting plant produces the greatest tonnage of
edible, digestible, pleasant-tasting calories per acre compared to any other food crop I know.
Manioc might seem the answer to human starvation because it will grow abundantly on tropical
soils so infertile and/or so droughty that no other food crop will succeed there. Manioc will
do this because it needs virtually nothing from the soil to construct itself with. And consequently,
manioc puts next to nothing nourishing into its edible parts. The bland-tasting root is virtually
pure starch, a simple carbohydrate not much different than pure corn starch. Plants construct
starches from carbon dioxide gas obtained the air and hydrogen obtained from water. There is
no shortage ever of carbon from CO2 in the air and rarely a shortage of hydrogen from water.
When the highly digestible starch in manioc is chewed, digestive enzymes readily convert it
into sugar. Nutritionally there is virtually no difference between eating manioc and eating
white sugar. Both are entirely empty calories.

If you made a scale from ideal to worst regarding the ratio of nutrition to calories, white
sugar, manioc and most fats are at the extreme undesirable end. Frankly I don't know which
single food might lie at the extreme positive end of the scale. Close to perfect might be certain
leafy green vegetables that can be eaten raw. When they are grown on extremely fertile soil,
some greens develop 20 or more percent completely digestible balanced protein with ideal ratios
of all the essential amino acids, lots of vitamins, tons of minerals, all sorts of enzymes
and other nutritional elements--and very few calories. You could continually fill your stomach
to bursting with raw leafy greens and still have a hard time sustaining your body weight if
that was all you ate. Maybe Popeye the Sailorman was right about eating spinach.

For the moment, lets ignore individual genetic inabilities to digest specific foods and also
ignore the effects stress and enervation can have on our ability to extract nutrition out of
the food we are eating. Without those factors to consider, it is correct to say that, to the
extent one's diet contains the maximum potential amount of nutrition relative to the number
of calories you are eating, to that extent a person will be healthy. To the extent the diet
is degraded from that ideal, to that extent, disease will develop. Think about it!

Lessons From Nutritional Anthropology

The next logical pair of questions are: how healthy could good nutrition make people be, and,
how much deviation from ideal nutrition could we allow ourselves before serious disease appears?
Luckily, earlier in this century we could observe living answers to those questions (before
the evidence disappeared). The answers are: we could be amazingly healthy, and, if we wish
to enjoy excellent health we can afford to cut ourselves surprisingly little slack.

Prior to the Second World War there were several dozen sizable groups of extraordinarily healthy
humans remaining on Earth. Today, their descendants are still in the same remote places, are
speaking the same languages and possess more or less the same cultures. Only today they're
watching satellite TV. wearing jeans, drinking colas--and their superior health has evaporated.

During the early part of this century, at the same era vitamins and other basic aspects of
nutrition were being discovered, a few farsighted medical explorers sought out these hard-to-reach
places with their legendarily healthy peoples to see what caused the legendary well-being they'd
heard of. Enough evidence was collected and analyzed to derive some very valid principles.

First lets dismiss some apparently logical but incorrect explanations for the unusually good
health of these isolated peoples. It wasn't racial, genetic superiority. There were extraordinarily
healthy blacks, browns, Orientals, Amerinds, Caucasians. It wasn't living at high altitude;
some lived at sea level. It wasn't temperate climates, some lived in the tropics, some in the
tropics at sea level, a type of location generally thought to be quite unhealthful. It wasn't
a small collection of genetically superior individuals, because when these peoples left their
isolated locale and moved to the city, they rapidly began to lose their health. And it wasn't
genetics because when a young couple from the isolated healthy village moved to town, their
children born in town were as unhealthy as all the other kids.

And what do I mean by genuinely healthy? Well, imagine a remote village or a mountain valley
or a far island settlement very difficult to get to, where there lived a thousand or perhaps
ten thousand people. Rarely fewer, rarely more. Among that small population there were no medical
doctors and no dentists, no drugs, no vaccinations, no antibiotics. Usually the isolation carried
with it illiteracy and precluded contact with or awareness of modern science, so there was
little or no notion of public hygiene. And this was before the era of antibiotics. Yet these
unprotected, undoctored, unvaccinated peoples did not suffer and die from bacterial infections;
and the women did not have to give birth to 13 children to get 2.4 to survive to breeding age--almost
all the children made it through the gauntlet of childhood diseases. There was also virtually
no degenerative disease like heart attacks, hardening of the arteries, senility, cancer, arthritis.
There were few if any birth defects. In fact, there probably weren't any aspirin in the entire
place. Oh, and there was very little mortality during childbirth, as little or less than we
have today with all our hospitals. And the people uniformly had virtually perfect teeth and
kept them all till death, but did not have toothbrushes nor any notion of dental hygiene. Nor
did they have dentists or physicians. (Price, 1970)

And in those fortunate places the most common causes of death were accident (trauma) and old
age. The typical life span was long into the 70s and in some places quite a bit longer. One
fabled place, Hunza, was renowned for having an extraordinarily high percentage of vigorous
and active people over 100 years old.

I hope I've made you curious. "How could this be?" you're asking. Well, here's why. First,
everyone of those groups lived in places so entirely remote, so inaccessible that they were
of necessity, virtually self-sufficient. They hardly traded at all with the outside world,
and certainly they did not trade for bulky, hard-to-transport bulk foodstuffs. Virtually everything
they ate was produced by themselves. If they were an agricultural people, naturally, everything
they ate was natural: organic, whole, unsprayed and fertilized with what ever local materials
seemed to produce enhanced plant growth. And, if they were agricultural, they lived on a soil
body that possessed highly superior natural fertility. If not an agricultural people they lived
by the sea and made a large portion of their diets sea foods. If their soil had not been extraordinarily
fertile, these groups would not have enjoyed superior health and would have conformed to the
currently widely-believed notion that before the modern era, people's lives were brutish, unhealthful,
and short.

What is common between meat-eating Eskimos, isolated highland Swiss living on rye bread, milk
and cheese; isolated Scottish island Celts with a dietary of oat porridge, kale and sea foods;
highland central Africans (Malawi) eating sorghum, millet tropical root crops and all sorts
of garden vegetables, plus a little meat and dairy; Fijians living on small islands in the
humid tropics at sea level eating sea foods and garden vegetables. What they had in common
was that their foods were all were at the extreme positive end of the Health = Nutrition /
Calories scale. The agriculturists were on very fertile soil that grew extraordinarily nutrient-rich
food, the sea food gatherers were obtaining their tucker from the place where all the fertility
that ever was in the soil had washed out of the land had been transported--sea foods are also
extraordinarily nutrient rich.

The group with the very best soil and consequently, the best health of all were, by lucky accident,
the Hunza. I say "lucky" and "accident" because the Hunza and their resource base unknowingly
developed an agricultural system that produced the most nutritious food that is possible to
grow. The Hunza lived on what has been called super food. There are a lot of interesting books
about the Hunza, some deserving of careful study. (Wrench, 1938; Rodale, 1949)

Finding Your Ideal Dietary

Anyone that is genuinely interested in having the best possible health should make their own
study of the titles listed in the bibliography in the back of this book. After you do, award
yourself a BS nutrition. I draw certain conclusions from this body of data. I think they help
a person sort out the massive confusion that exists today about proper diet.

First principle: Homo Sapiens clearly can posses extreme health while eating very different
dietary regimens. There is no one right diet for humans.

Before the industrial era almost everyone on Earth ate what was produced locally. Their dietary
choices were pretty much restricted to those foods that were well adapted and productive in
their region. Some places grew rye, others wheat, others millet, others rice. Some places supported
cows, others goats, others had few on no domesticated animals. Some places produced a lot of
fruits and vegetables. Others, did not. Whatever the local dietary, during thousands of years
of eating that dietary natural selection prevailed; most babies that were allergic to or not
able to thrive on the available dietary, died quickly. Probably of childhood bacterial infections.
The result of this weeding out process was a population closely adapted to the available dietary
of a particular locale.

This has interesting implications for Americans, most of whose ancestors immigrated from somewhere
else; many of our ancestors also "hybridized" or crossed with immigrants from elsewhere. Trying
to discover what dietary substances your particular genetic endowment is adapted to can be
difficult and confusing. If both your parents were Italian and they were more or less pure
Italian going way back, you might start out trying to eat wheat, olives, garlic, fava beans,
grapes, figs, cow dairy. If pure German, try rye bread, cow dairy, apples, cabbage family vegetables.
If Scottish, try oats, mutton, fish, sheep dairy and cabbage family vegetables. If Jewish,
try goat dairy, wheat, olives and citrus. And certainly all the above ethnic derivations will
thrive on many kinds of vegetables. Afro-Americans, especially dark-complexioned ones little
mixed with Europeans, might do well to avoid wheat and instead, try sorghum, millet or tropical
root crops like sweet potatoes, yams and taro.

Making it even more difficult for an individual to discover their optimum diet is the existence
of genetic-based allergies and worse, developed allergies. Later in this chapter I will explain
how a body can develop an allergy to a food that is probably irreversible. A weakened organ
can also prevent digestion of a food or food group.

One more thing about adaptation to dietaries. Pre-industrial humans could only be extraordinarily
healthy on the dietary they were adapted to if and only if that dietary also was extraordinarily
high in nutrients. Few places on earth have naturally rich soil. Food grown on poor soil is
poor in nutrition; that grown on rich soil is high in nutrition. People do not realize that
the charts and tables in the backs of health books like Adelle Davis's Lets Cook It Right,
are not really true. They are statistics. It is vital to keep in mind the old saying, "there
are lies, there are damned lies, and then there are statistics. The best way to lie is with
statistics."

Statistical tables of the nutrient content of foods were developed by averaging numerous samples
of food from various soils and regions. These tables basically lie because they do not show
the range of possibility between the different samples. A chart may state authoritatively that
100 grams of broccoli contains so many milligrams of calcium. What it does not say is that
some broccoli samples contain only half that amount or even less, while other broccoli contains
two or three times that amount. Since calcium is a vital nutrient hard to come by in digestible
form, the high calcium broccoli is far better food than the low calcium sample. But both samples
of broccoli appear and taste more or less alike. Both could even be organically grown. Yet
one sample has a very positive ratio of nutrition to calories, the other is lousy food. (Schuphan,
1965) Here's another example I hope will really dent the certainties the Linda Clarkites. Potatoes
can range in protein from eight to eleven percent, depending on the soil that produced them
and if they were or were not irrigated. Grown dry (very low yielding) on semiarid soils, potatoes
can be a high-protein staff of life. Heavily irrigated and fertilized so as to produce bulk
yield instead of nutrition, they'll produce two or three times the tonnage, but at 8 percent
protein instead of 11 percent. Not only does the protein content drop just as much as yield
is boosted, the amino acid ratios change markedly, the content of scarce nutritional minerals
drops massively, and the caloric content increases. In short, subsisting on irrigated commercially-grown
potatoes, or on those grown on relatively infertile soils receiving abundant rainfall will
make you fat and sick. They're a lot like manioc.

Here's another. Wheat can range from 7 to 19 percent protein. Before the industrial era ruined
most wheat by turning it into white flour, wheat-eating peoples from regions where the cereal
naturally contains abundant protein tended to be tall, healthy and long-lived. Wheat-eating
humans from regions that produce low protein grain tended to be small, sickly and short-lived.
(McCarrison, 1921, 1936, 1982; Albrecht, 1975)

Even cows have to pay attention to where their grass is coming from. Some green grass is over
15 percent protein and contains lots of calcium, phosphorus and magnesium to build strong bodies.
Other equally or even better looking green grass contains only six or seven percent protein
and contains little calcium, phosphorus or magnesium. Cows forced to eat only this poor type
of grass can literally starve to death with full bellies. And they have a hard time breeding
successfully. The reason for the difference: different soil fertility profiles. (Albrecht, 1975)

When people ate local, those living on fertile soils or getting a significant portion of their
diet from the sea and who because of physical isolation from industrial foods did not make
a practice of eating empty calories tended to live a long time and be very healthy. But those
unfortunates on poor soils or with unwise cultural life-styles tended to be short-lived, diseased,
small, weak, have bad teeth, and etc. The lesson here is that Homo Sapiens can adapt to many
different dietaries, but like any other animal, the one thing we can't adapt to is a dietary
deficient in nutrition.

So here's another "statistic" to reconsider. Most people believe that due to modern medical
wonders, we live longer than we used to. Actually, that depends. Compared to badly nourished
populations of a century ago, yes! We do. Chemical medicine keeps sickly, poorly nourished
people going a lot longer (though one wonders about the quality of their dreary existences.)
I hypothesize that before the time most farmers purchased and baked with white flour and sold
their whole, unground wheat, many rural Americans (the ones on good soil, not all parts of
North America have rich soil) eating from their own self-sufficient farms, lived as long or
even longer than we do today. You also have to wonder who benefits from promulgating this mistaken
belief about longevity. Who gets rich when we are sick? And what huge economic interests are
getting rich helping make us sick?

The Human Comedy

I know most of my readers have been heavily indoctrinated about food and think they already
know the truth about dietetics. I also know that so much information (and misinformation) is
coming out about diet that most of my readers are massively confused about the subject. These
are two powerful reasons many readers will look with disbelief at what this chapter has to
say and take no action on my data, even to prove me wrong.

Let me warn you. There is a deep-seated human tendency to put off taking responsibilities,
beautifully demonstrated by this old joke.

A 14 year old boy was discovered masturbating by his father, who said, "son, you shouldn't
do that! If you keep it up you'll eventually go blind!"

"But father," came the boy's quick reply. "It feels good. How about if I don't quit until I
need to wear glasses?"

The Organic Versus Chemical Feud

Now, regrettably, and at great personal risk to my reputation, I must try to puncture the very
favorite belief of food religionists, the doctrine that organically grown food is as nutritious
as food can possibly be, Like Woody Allen's brown-rice-eating friends, people think if you
eat Organic foods, you will inevitably live a very long time and be very healthy. Actually,
the Organic vs. chemical feud is in many ways false. Many (not all) samples of organically
grown food are as low or lower in nutrition as foods raised with chemical fertilizers. Conversely,
wisely using chemical fertilizers (not pesticides) can greatly increase the nutritional value
of food. Judiciously used Organic fertilizing substances can also do that as well or better.
And in either case, using chemical fertilizers or so-called organic fertilizers, to maximize
nutrition the humus content of the soil must be maintained. But, raising soil organic matter
levels too high can result in a massive reduction in the nutritional content of the food being
grown--a very frequent mistake on the part of Organic devotees. In other words, growing nutrition
is a science, and is not a matter of religion.

The food I fed to my daughter in childhood, though Organic according to Rodale and the certification
bureaucrats, though providing this organic food to my family and clients gave me a feeling
of self-righteousness, was not grown with an understanding of the nutritional consequences
of electing to use one particular Organic fertilizing substance over another. So we and a lot
of regional Organic market gardeners near us that we bought from, were raising food that was
far from ideally nutritious. At least though, our food was free of pesticide residues.

The real dichotomy in food is not "chemical" fertilizer versus "Organic," It is between industrial
food and quality food. What I mean by industrial food is that which is raised with the intention
of maximizing profit or yield. There is no contradiction between raising food that the "rabbis"
running Organic certification bureaucracies would deem perfectly "kosher" and raising that
same food to make the most possible money or the biggest harvest. When a farmer grows for money,
they want to produce the largest number of bushels, crates, tons, bales per acre. Their criteria
for success is primarily unit volume. Many gardeners think the same way. To maximize bulk yield
they build soil fertility in a certain direction (organically or chemically) and choose varieties
that produce greater bulk. However, nature is ironic in this respect. The most nutritious food
is always lower yielding. The very soil management practices that maximize production simultaneously
reduce nutrition.

The real problem we are having about our health is not that there are residues of pesticides
in our food. The real problem is that there are only residues of nutrition left in our foods.
Until our culture comes to understand this and realizes that the health costs of accepting
less than optimum food far exceeds the profits made by growing bulk, it will not be possible
to frequently find the ultimate of food quality in the marketplace, organically grown or not.
It will not be possible to find food that is labeled or identified according to its real nutritional
value. The best I can say about Organic food these days is that it probably is no less nutritious
than chemically-grown food while at least it is free of pesticide residues.

The Poor Start

For this reason it makes sense to take vitamins and food supplements, to be discussed in the
next chapter. And because our food supply, Organic or "conventional," is far from optimum,
if a person wants to be and remain healthy and have a life span that approaches their genetic
potential (and that potential, it seems, approaches or exceeds a century), it is essential
that empty calories are rigorously avoided.

An accurate and quick-to-respond indicator of how well we are doing in terms of getting enough
nutrition is the state of our teeth. One famous dentally-oriented nutritional doctor, Melvin
Page, suggested that as long as overall nutrition was at least 75 percent of perfection, the
body chemistry could support healthy teeth and gums until death. By healthy here Page means
free of cavities, no bone loss around the teeth (no wobblers), no long-in-the-teeth mouths
from receding gums, no gum diseases at all. But when empty calories or devitalized foods or
misdigestion cuts our nutrient intake we begin experiencing tooth decay, gum disease and bone
loss in the jaw. How are your teeth?

I suppose you could say that I have a food religion, but mine is to eat so that the equation
Nutrition = Health / Calories is strongly in my favor.

Back to my daughter's teeth. Yes, I innocently fed her less than ideally nutritious food, but
at that time I couldn't buy ideal food even had I known what I wanted, nor did I have any scientific
idea of how to produce ideal food, nor actually, could I have done so on the impoverished,
leached-out clay soil at Great Oaks School even had I known how. The Organic doctrine says
that you can build a Garden of 'Eatin with large quantities of compost until any old clay pit
or gravel heap produces highly nutritious food. This idea is not really true. Sadly, what is
true about organic matter in soil is that when it is increased very much above the natural
level one finds in untilled soil in the climate you're working with, the nutritional content
of the food begins to drop markedly. I know this assertion is shocking and perhaps threatening
to those who believe in the Organic system; I am sorry.

But there is another reason my daughter's teeth were not perfect, probably could not have been
perfect no matter what we fed her, and why she will probably have at least some health problems
as she ages no matter how perfectly she may choose to eat from here on. My daughters had what
Dr. G.T. Wrench called "a poor start." Not as poor as it could have been by any means, but
certainly less than ideal.

You see, the father has very little to do with the health of the child, unless he happens to
carry some particularly undesirable gene. It is the mother who has the job of constructing
the fetus out of prepartum nourishment and her own body's nutritional reserves. The female
body knows from trillenia of instinctual experience that adequate nutrition from the current
food supply during pregnancy can not always be assured, so the female body stores up very large
quantities of minerals and vitamins and enzymes against that very possibility. When forming
a fetus these reserves are drawn down and depleted. It is virtually impossible during the pregnancy
itself for a mother to extract sufficient nutrition from current food to build a totally healthy
fetus, no matter how nourishing the food she is eating may be. Thus a mother-to-be needs to
be spending her entire childhood and her adolescence (and have adequate time between babies),
building and rebuilding her reserves.

A mother-to-be also started out at her own birth with a vitally important stock of nutritional
reserves, reserves put there during her own fetal development. If that "start" was less than
ideal, the mother-to-be (as fetus) got "pinched" and nutritionally shortchanged in certain,
predictable ways. Even minor mineral fetal deficiencies degrade the bone structure: the fetus
knows it needs nutritional reserves more than it needs to have a full-sized jaw bone or a wide
pelvic girdle, and when deprived of maximum fetal nourishment, these non-vital bones become
somewhat smaller. Permanently. If mineral deficiencies continue into infancy and childhood,
these same bones continue to be shortchanged, and the child ends up with a very narrow face,
a jaw bone far too small to hold all the teeth, and in women, a small oven that may have trouble
baking babies. More importantly, those nutrient reserves earmarked especially for making babies
are also deficient. So a deficient mother not only shows certain structural evidence of physiological
degeneration, but she makes deficient babies. A deficient female baby at birth is unlikely
to completely overcome her bad start before she herself has children.

So with females, the quality of a whole lifetime's nutrition, and the life-nutrition of her
mother (and of her mother's mother as well) has a great deal to do with the outcome of a pregnancy.
The sins of the mother can really be visited unto the third and fourth generation.

This reality was powerfully demonstrated in the 1920s by a medical doctor, Francis Pottenger.
He was not gifted with a good bedside manner. Rather than struggling with an unsuccessful clinical
practice, Dr. Pottenger decided to make his living running a medical testing laboratory in
Pasadena, California. Dr. Pottenger earned his daily bread performing a rather simple task,
assaying the potency of adrenal hormone extracts. At that time, adrenaline, a useful drug to
temporarily rescue people close to death, was extracted from the adrenal glands of animals.
However, the potency of these crude extracts varied greatly. Being a very powerful drug, it
was essential to measure exactly how strong your extract was so its dosage could be controlled.

Quantitative organic chemistry was rather crude in those days. Instead of assaying in a test
tube, Dr. Pottenger kept several big cages full of cats that he had adrenalectomized. Without
their own adrenals, the cats could not live more than a short time By finding out how much
extract was required to keep the cats from failing, he could measure the strength of the particular
batch.

Dr. Pottenger's cats were economically valuable so he made every effort to keep them healthy,
something that proved to be disappointingly difficult. He kept his cats clean, in airy, bright
quarters, fed them to the very best of his ability on pasteurized whole milk, slaughterhouse
meat and organs (cats in the wild eat organ meats first and there are valuable vitamins and
other substances in organ meats that don't exist in muscle tissue). The meat was carefully
cooked to eliminate any parasites, and the diet was supplemented with cod liver oil. However,
try as he might, Pottenger's cats were sickly, lived short and had to be frequently replaced.
Usually they bred poorly and died young of bacterial infections, there being no antibiotics
in the 1920s. I imagine Dr. Pottenger was constantly visiting the animal shelter and perhaps
even paid quarters out the back door to a steady stream of young boys who brought him cats
in burlap sacks from who knows where, no questions asked.

Dr. Pottenger's assays must have been accurate, for his business grew and grew. Eventually
he needed more cats than he had cages to house, so he built a big, roofed, on-the-ground pen
outdoors. Because he was overworked, he was less careful about the feeding of these extra animals.
They got the same pasteurized milk and cod-liver oil, but he did not bother to cook their slaughterhouse
meat. Then, a small miracle happened. This poorly cared for cage of cats fed on uncooked meat
became much healthier than the others, suffering far fewer bacterial infections or other health
problems. Then another miracle happened. Dr. Pottenger began to meditate on the first miracle.

It occurred to him that cats in the wild did not cook their food; perhaps cats had a digestive
system that couldn't process or assimilate much out of cooked food. Perhaps the problem he
had been having was not because the cats were without adrenal glands but because they were
without sustenance, suffering a sort of slow starvation in the midst of plenty. So Dr. Pottenger
set up some cat feeding experiments.

There were four possible combinations of his regimen: raw meat and unpasteurized milk; raw
meat and pasteurized milk; cooked meat and raw milk; cooked meat and pasteurized milk, this
last one being what he had been feeding all along. So he divided his cats into four groups
and fed each group differently. The first results of Pottenger's experiments were revealed
quickly though the most valuable results took longer to see.

Clearly, cats can't digest cooked food; all animals do better fed on what they can digest.
A lot of people have taken Pottenger's data and mistakenly concluded that humans also should
eat only raw food. This idea is debatable. However, the most important result of the cat experiments
took years to reveal itself and is not paid much attention to, probably because its implications
are very depressing. Dr. Pottenger continued his experiments for several generations. It was
the transgenerational changes that showed the most valuable lesson. Over several generations,
the cats on all raw foods began to alter their appearance. Their faces got wider, their pelvic
girdles broader, bones solider, teeth better. They began to breed very successfully.

After quite a few generations, the healthiest group, the one on all raw foods, seemed to have
improved as much as it could. So Dr. Pottenger took some of these cats and began feeding them
only cooked food to study the process of nutritional degeneration. After three "de"generations
on cooked fodder the group had deteriorated so much that the animals could barely breed. Their
faces had become narrow, their teeth crooked, their pelvic girdles narrow, their bones and
body structure very small, and their dispositions poor. Mothers wouldn't nurse their young
and sometimes became cannibalistic. They no longer lived very long.

Before the degenerating group completely lost the ability to breed, Pottenger began to again
feed them all raw food. It took four generations on a perfect, raw food diet before some perfect
appearing individuals showed up in the group. It takes longer to repair the damage than it
does to cause it and it takes generations of unflagging persistence.

I think much the same process has happened to humans in this century. With the invention of
the roller mill and the consequent degradation of our daily bread to white flour; with the
birth of industrial farming and the generalized lowering of the nutritional content of all
of our crops; our overall ratio of nutrition to calories worsened. Then it worsened again because
we began to have industrial food manufacturing and national brand prepared food marketing systems;
we began subsisting on devitalized, processed foods. The result has been an even greater worsening
of our ratio of nutrition to calories.

And just like Pottenger's cats, we civilized humans in so-called advanced countries are losing
the ability to breed, our willingness (or the energy) to mother our young; we're losing our
good humor in the same way Pottenger's degenerated cats became bad tempered. As a group we
feel so poorly that we desperately need to feel better fast, and what better way to do that
than with drugs. Is it any wonder that the United States, the country furthest down the road
of industrial food degeneration, spends 14 percent of its gross domestic product on medical
services. Any wonder that so many babies are born by Cesarean, any wonder that so many of our
children have crooked teeth needing an orthodontist? The most depressing aspect of this comes
into view when considering that Pottenger's cats took four generations on perfect food to repair
most of the nutritional damage.

In the specific case of my daughter, I know somethings about the nutritional history of her
maternal ancestors. My daughter's grandmother grew up on a Saskatchewan farm. Though they certainly
grew their own rich wheat on virgin semi-arid prairie soil, I'm sure the family bought white
flour at the store for daily use. Still, there was a garden and a cow producing raw milk and
free-range fertile eggs and chicken and other animals. There probably were lots of canned vegetables
in winter, canned but still highly nutritious because of the fertility of their prairie garden.
My mother consequently had perfect teeth until the Great Depression forced her to live for
too many years on lard and white bread.

During this time of severe malnutrition she had her three babies. The first one got the best
of her nutritional reserves. The second, born after the worst of the malnutrition, was very
small and weak and had a hard time growing up. Fortunately for me, for a few years before I
(the last child) was born, the worst of the economic times had past and the family had been
living on a farm. There were vegetables and fresh raw milk and fruit. My mother had two good
years to rebuild her nutritional reserves. But "Grannybell" did not managed to replace enough.
Shortly after I was born my mother lost every one of her teeth all at once. The bone just disappeared
around them.

Thus, I was born deficient. And my childhood and adolescent nutrition was poor too: soda crackers,
pasteurized processed artificial cheese, evaporated milk from cans, hotdogs and canned beans,
hotdogs and cabbage. It wasn't until I was pregnant with my first baby that I started to straighten
up my diet. I continued eating very well after my first daughter, so my youngest daughter had
another three years of good diet to draw on. Thus both my own daughters got a somewhat better
start than I had had.

My teeth were not as good as my mother's had been before those years of malnutrition took them
all. Instead of perfect straight undecayed teeth like a healthy farm girl should have, mine
were somewhat crowded, with numerous cavities. My jaw bone had not received enough minerals
to develop to its full size. My pelvic girdle also was smaller than my mother's was. I had
had a poor start.

My daughters did better. The older one (the first child typically gets the best of the nutritional
reserves) has such a wide jaw that there are small spaces between her teeth. My second daughter
has only one crooked tooth, she has wider, more solid hips, stronger bones and a broader face
than I do. If my younger daughter will but from this point in her life, eat perfectly and choose
her food wisely to responsibly avoid empty calories and maximize her ratio of nutrition to
calories, her daughter (if she gives us granddaughters as her older sister already has done)
may exhibit the perfect physiology that her genes carry.

Along the lines of helping you avoid empty calories I will give you some information about
various common foods that most people don't know and that most books about food and health
don't tell, or misunderstand.

Butter, Margarine and Fats in General.

Recently, enormous propaganda has been generated against eating butter. Its been smeared in
the health magazines as a saturated animal fat, one containing that evil substance, cholesterol.
Many people are now avoiding it and instead, using margarine.

Composition of Oils

               Saturated Monosaturated Unsaturated
Butter         66%       30%            4%
Coconut Oil    87%        6%            2%
Cottonseed Oil 26%       18%           52%
Olive Oil      13%       74%            8%
Palm Oil       49%       37%            9%
Soybean Oil    14%       24%           58%
Sunflower Oil   4%        8%           83%
Safflower Oil   3%        5%           87%
Sesame Oil      5%        9%           80%
Peanut Oil      6%       12%           76%
Corn Oil        3%        7%           84%

This is a major and serious misunderstanding. First of all, margarine is almost indigestible,
chemically very much like shortening--an artificially saturated or hydrogenated vegetable fat.
Hydrogenated fats can't be properly broken down by the body's digestive enzymes, adding to
the body's toxic load. Margarine, being a chemically-treated vegetable oil with artificial
yellow color and artificial flavorings to make it seem like butter, also releases free radicals
in the body that accelerate aging. So, to avoid the dangers of eating cholesterol-containing
butter, people eat something far worse for them!

There are severe inconsistencies with the entire "cholesterol-is-evil" theory. Ethnic groups
like the Danes, who eat enormous quantities of cholesterol-containing foods, have little circulatory
disease. Actually, the liver itself produces cholesterol; it's presence in the blood is an
important part of the body chemistry. Cholesterol only becomes a problem because of deranged
body chemistry due to the kind of overall malnutrition Americans usually experience on their
junk food diets. Avoiding cholesterol in foods does little good, but eating a low-fat, low-sugar,
complex-carbohydrate (whole foods) diet high in minerals does lower blood cholesterol enormously.

Actually, high quality fresh (not rancid) butter in moderate quantities is about the finest
fat a person could eat. But high quality butter is almost unobtainable. First of all, it has
to be raw, made from unpasteurized cream. Second, butter can contain very high levels of fat-soluble
vitamins, but doesn't have to. Vitamin-rich butter's color is naturally bright yellow, almost
orange. This color does not come from a test tube. Pale yellow butter as is found in the commercial
trade was probably almost white before it was artificially tinted. Butter from grass-pastured
cows naturally changes from yellow-orange to white and back again through the year as the seasons
change. Spring grass, growing in the most intense sunlight of the year contains very high levels
of chlorophyll and vitamins. Cows eating this grass put high levels of vitamins A and D into
their cream, evidenced by the orange color of vitamin A. By July, natural butter has degraded
to medium-yellow in color. By August, it is pale yellow. Industrial dairy cows fed exclusively
on hay or artificial, processed feeds (lacking in these vitamins), produce butterfat that is
almost white.

I prefer to obtain my butter from a neighbor who has several dairy cows grazing on fertile
bottom land pasture. We always freeze a year's supply in late spring when butter is at its
best. Interestingly, that is also the time of year when my neighbor gets the most production
from her cows and is most willing to part with 25 pounds of extra butter.

In general, fats are poor foods that should be avoided. Their ratio of nutrition to calories
is absolutely the worst of all food types, except perhaps for pure white sugar, which is all
calories and absolutely no nutrition (this is also true for other forms of sugar. Honey, too,
contains almost no nutrition.). Gram for gram, fats contain many more calories than do sugars
or starches. Yet gram for gram, fats contain virtually no nutrition except for small quantities
of essential fatty acids.

The perverse reason people like to eat fats is that they are very hard to digest and greatly
slow the digestive action of the stomach. Another way of saying that is that they have a very
high satiety value. Fats make a person feel full for a long time because their presence in
the stomach makes it churn and churn and churn. Fats coat proteins and starches and delay their
digestion, often causing them to begin fermenting (starches) or putrefying (proteins) in the
digestive tract.

The best fats contain high levels of monosaturated vegetable oils that have never been exposed
to heat or chemicals--like virgin olive oil. Use small quantities of olive oil for salad dressing.
Monosaturated fats also have far less tendency to go rancid than any other type. Vegetable
oils with high proportions of unsaturated fats, the kind that all the authorities push because
they contain no cholesterol, go rancid rapidly upon very brief exposure to air. The danger
here is that rancidity in vegetable oil is virtually unnoticeable. Rancid animal fat on the
other hand, smells "off." Eating rancid oil is a sure-fire way to accelerate aging, invite
degenerative conditions in general, and enhance the likelihood of cancer. I recommend that
you use only high-quality virgin olive oil, the only generally-available fat that is largely
monosaturated. (Pearson and Shaw, 1983)

When you buy vegetable oil, even olive oil, get small bottles so you use them up before the
oil has much time being exposed to air (as you use the oil air fills the bottle) or, if you
buy olive oil in a large can to save money, immediately upon opening it, transfer the oil to
pint jars filled to the very brim to exclude virtually all air, and seal the jars securely.
In either case, keep now-opened, in-use small bottles of oil in the refrigerator because rancidity
is simply the combination of oil with oxygen from the air and this chemical reaction is accelerated
at warmer temperatures and slowed greatly at cold ones.

Chemical reactions typically double in speed with every 10 degrees C. increase in temperature.
So oil goes rancid about six times faster at normal room temperature than it does in the fridge.
If you'll think about the implications of this data you'll see there are two powerful reasons
not to fry food. One, the food is coated with oil and gains in satiety value at the expense
of becoming relatively indigestible and productive of toxemia. Secondly, if frying occurs at
150 degrees Centigrade and normal room temperature is 20 degrees Centigrade, then oil goes
rancid 2 to the 13th power faster in the frying pan, or about 8,200 times faster. Heating oil
for only ten minutes in a hot skillet induces as much rancidity as about 6 weeks of sitting
open and exposed to air at room temperature. Think about that the next time you're tempted
to eat something from a fast food restaurant where the hot fat in the deep fryer has been reacting
with oxygen all day, or even for several days.

Back to butter, where we started. If you must have something traditionally northern European
on your bread, you are far better off to use butter, not margarine. However, Mediterranean
peoples traditionally dip their bread in high-quality extra-virgin olive oil that smells and
tastes like olives. Its delicious, why not try it. But best yet, put low-sugar fruit preserves
on your toast or develop a taste for dry toast. Probably the finest use for butter is melted
over steamed vegetables. This way only small quantities are needed and the fat goes on something
that is otherwise very easy to digest so its presence will not produce as many toxins in the
digestive tract.

Milk, Meat, And Other Protein Foods

Speaking of butter, how about milk? The dairy lobby is very powerful in North America. Its
political clout and campaign contributions have the governments of both the United States and
especially that of Canada eating out of its hand (literally), providing the dairy industry
with price supports. Because of these price supports, in Canada cheese costs half again more
than it does in the United States. The dairy lobby is also very cozy with the medical profession
so licensed nutritionists constantly bombard us with "drink milk" and "cheese is good for you"
propaganda.

And people naturally like dairy foods. They taste good and are fat-rich with a high satiety
value. Dairy makes you feel full for a long time. Dairy is also high in protein; protein is
hard to digest and this too keeps one feeling full for a long time. But many people, especially
those from cultures who traditionally (genetically) didn't have dairy cows, particularly Africans,
Asians and Jews, just do not produce the enzymes necessary to digest cows milk. Some individuals
belonging to these groups can digest goats milk. Some can't digest any kind except human breast
milk. And some can digest fermented milk products like yogurt and kiefer. Whenever one eats
a protein food that is not fully digestible, it putrefies in the digestive tract, with all
the bad consequences previously described.

But no one, absolutely no one can fully digest pasteurized cows milk, which is what most people
use because they have been made to fear cow-transmitted diseases and/or they are forced to
use pasteurized dairy products by health authorities. I suspect drinking pasteurized milk or
eating cheese made from pasteurized milk is one of the reasons so many people develop allergic
reactions to milk. Yet many states do not allow unpasteurized dairy to be sold, even privately
between neighbors. To explain all this, I first have to explain a bit more about protein digestion
in general and then talk about allergies and how they can be created.

Proteins are long, complex molecules, intricate chains whose individual links are amino acids.
Proteins are the very stuff of life. All living protoplasm, animal or plant, is largely composed
of proteins. There are virtually an infinite number of different proteins but all are composed
of the same few dozen amino acids hooked together in highly variable patterns. Amino acids
themselves are highly complex organic molecules too. The human body custom-assembles all its
proteins from amino acids derived from digesting protein foods, and can also manufacture small
quantities of certain of its own amino acids to order, but there are eight amino acids it cannot
make and these are for that reason called essential amino acids. Essential amino acids must
be contained in the food we eat. .

Few proteins are water soluble. When we eat proteins the digestive apparatus must first break
them down into their water-soluble components, amino acids, so these can pass into the blood
and then be reassembled into the various proteins the body uses. The body has an interesting
mechanism to digest proteins; it uses enzymes. An enzyme is like the key for a lock. It is
a complex molecule that latches to a protein molecule and then breaks it apart into amino acids.
Then the enzyme finds yet another protein molecule to free. Enzymes are efficient, reusable
many many times.

Enzymes that digest proteins are effective only in the very acid environment of the stomach,
are manufactured by the pancreas and are released when protein foods are present. The stomach
then releases hydrochloric acid and churns away like a washing machine, mixing the enzymes
and the acid with the proteins until everything has digested.

So far so good. That's how its supposed to be. But. Dr. Henry Bieler, who wrote Food Is Your
Best Medicine, came up with the finest metaphor I know of to explain how protein digestion
goes wrong. He compared all proteins to the white of an egg (which is actually a form of protein).
When raw and liquid, the long chains of albumen (egg white) proteins are in their natural form.
However, cook the egg and the egg white both solidifies and becomes smaller. What has happened
is that the protein chains have shriveled and literally tied themselves into knots. Once this
happens, pancreatic enzymes no longer fit and cannot separate all the amino acids. Cooked proteins
may churn and churn and churn in the presence of acid and pancreatic enzymes but they will
not digest completely. Part becomes water soluble; part does not.

But, indigestible protein is still subject to an undesirable form of consumption in the gut.
Various bacteria make their home in our airless, warm intestines. Some of these live on protein.
In the process of consuming undigested proteins, they release highly toxic substances. They
poison us.

What is true of the white of an egg is also true of flesh foods and dairy. Raw meat and raw
fish are actually easily digestible foods and if not wrongly combined will not produce toxemia
in a person that still has a strong pancreas. However, eating raw meat and fish can be a dicey
proposition, both for reasons of cultural sensibility (people think it is disgusting) and because
there may be living parasites in uncooked flesh that can attack, sicken and even kill people.
It has been argued that a healthy stomach containing its proper degree of acidity provides
an impenetrable barrier to parasites. Perhaps. But how many of us are that healthy these days?
Cooked flesh and fish seems more delicious to our refined, civilized sensibilities, but are
a poor food.

In my household we have no moral objection to eating meat. We do have an ethical objection
in that meat eating does not contribute to our health. But still, we do eat it. A few times
a year, for traditional celebrations we may invite the children over and cook a turkey. A few
times for Thanksgiving when the children were going through their holier-than-thou vegetarian
stage, I purchased the largest, thickest porterhouse steak I could find at the natural meat
store and ate it medium-rare, with relish. It was delicious. It made me feel full for hours
and hours and hours. I stayed flat on the couch and groggily worked on digesting it all evening.
After that I'd had enough of meat to last for six months.

When milk is pasteurized, the proteins in it are also altered in structure. Not so severely
as egg white is altered by cooking because pasteurization happens at a lower temperature. But
altered none the less. And made less digestible. Pasteurizing also makes milk calcium far less
assimilable. That's ironic because so many people are drinking milk because they fear they
need more calcium to avoid osteoporosis and to give their children good teeth. What pasteurized
milk actually does to their children is make them calcium deficient and makes the children
toxic, provoking many colds, ear infections, sinusitis, inflammations of the tonsils and lung
infections, and, induces an allergy to milk in the children.

The Development Of Allergies

