Everybody knows the story of the fortune hunter who commanded his servant to duplicate in the
affirmative, when he should be in conversation, all his assertions. 'I have a fine farm,' said
he. 'Faith, ye mane ye have two on thim,' interpolated his Irishman; and so it went on, until
the master admitted that he had a cork leg. 'Two false ligs, an' ye know it,' cried out the
man. This is somewhat varied and enlarged from the old story as given in the Facetiæ of Bebel,
in which the nobleman, remarking to his lady-love that he was 'a little out of sorts,'--'dixit
ille, se pallidulum parumque infirmum,' was interrupted by his servant with: 'And no wonder,
since you suffer with such a terrible and incurable quotidian disease!'[5]

If all stories and jests are to be traced to a few originals, perhaps the many eccentric tales
of Jack on horseback may be found in a very old anecdote of a certain Venetus insuetus ac nescius
equitare--a Venetian unaccustomed to and ignorant of riding, who, when mounted on horseback,
having inadvertently spurred the animal, exclaimed, as it reared and plunged:

'Lord! the waves of the sea are nothing to those on land,'--thinking that the leaping of his
steed was caused by a sudden storm! The anecdotes of absent-mindedness may find a prototype
in a very old monk-Latin anecdote of a certain doctor who went riding 'cum Palatino Rheni,'
with the Prince Palatine, and who, on being told that he had no breeches on, replied: 'Credebam,
ô princeps, mihi famulum ea induisse.' 'I thought, oh prince, that my valet had put them on!'
Domine Sampson and the magistrate who appeared un-breeched before General Washington, are both
anticipated in these absent small-clothes.

Many of the capital extravagances contained in 'Baron Munchausen' are borrowed literally from
the old Latin jest-books. The incident of the wild pig which led about by its tail a blind
wild boar, so that when the former was slain the latter was taken home by simply giving it
the tail to hold, is of very respectable antiquity--as is also the story of the horse cut in
two--attributed by Bebel to a locksmith. The locksmiths, he tells us in the parenthesis, are
the boldest of Major Longbows.

There are many jests current in all languages, quizzing the vanity of humble persons suddenly
raised to some small dignity. 'Neebors, I am still but a mon,' remarked the Scotchman, who
became mayor.[6] Perhaps their type is latent in the 'De rustica præfecti uxore--the village
magistrate's wife,--which runs as follows:

     'When a certain man had been made a prefect of a small village, he
     bought his wife a new fur garment (melotam). She, proud of her
     finery and full of her new honor, entered church, capite elato et
     superbo, with her head raised, just as all the congregation rose
     to their feet, when the Gospel was to be read. When she, thinking
     it to be in her honor, and recollecting her former condition, said:
     Sit still! I have not forgotten that I was once poor!'

