Whom does the Upanishad call The chief among the knowers of Brahma?  [Footnote: Brahmavidāmvaristhah.]
He is defined as He whose joy is in Brahma, whose play is in Brahma, the active one. [Footnote:
Ātmakrīrha ātmaratih kriyāvān.]  Joy without the play of joy is no joy at all--play without
activity is no play. Activity is the play of joy.  He whose joy is in Brahma, how can he live
in inaction?  For must he not by his activity provide that in which the joy of Brahma is to
take form and manifest itself?  That is why he who knows Brahma, who has his joy in Brahma,
must also have all his activity in Brahma--his eating and drinking, his earning of livelihood
and his beneficence. Just as the joy of the poet in his poem, of the artist in his art, of
the brave man in the output of his courage, of the wise man in his discernment of truths, ever
seeks expression in their several activities, so the joy of the knower of Brahma, in the whole
of his everyday work, little and big, in truth, in beauty, in orderliness and in beneficence,
seeks to give expression to the infinite.

Brahma himself gives expression to his joy in just the same way. By his many-sided activity,
which radiates in all directions, does he fulfil the inherent want of his different creatures.
[Footnote: Bahudhā çakti yogāt varņānanekān nihitārtho dadhāti.] That inherent want is he himself,
and so he is in so many ways, in so many forms, giving himself.  He works, for without working
how could he give himself.  His joy is ever dedicating itself in the dedication which is his
creation.

In this very thing does our own true meaning lie, in this is our likeness to our father.  We
must also give up ourselves in many- sided variously aimed activity.  In the Vedas he is called
the giver of himself, the giver of strength.  [Footnote:  Ātmadā baladā.]  He is not content
with giving us himself, but he gives us strength that we may likewise give ourselves.  That
is why the seer of the Upanishad prays to him who is thus fulfilling our wants, May he grant
us the beneficent mind [Footnote: Sa no buddhya çubhayā samyunaktu.], may he fulfil that uttermost
want of ours by granting us the beneficent mind.  That is to say, it is not enough he should
alone work to remove our want, but he should give us the desire and the strength to work with
him in his activity and in the exercise of the goodness.  Then, indeed, will our union with
him alone be accomplished.  The beneficent mind is that which shows us the want (swārtha) of
another self to be the inherent want (nihitārtha) of our own self; that which shows that our
joy consists in the varied aiming of our many-sided powers in the work of humanity.  When we
work under the guidance of this beneficent mind, then our activity is regulated, but does not
become mechanical; it is action not goaded on by want, but stimulated by the satisfaction of
the soul.  Such activity ceases to be a blind imitation of that of the multitude, a cowardly
following of the dictates of fashion. Therein we begin to see that He is in the beginning and
in the end of the universe [Footnote: Vichaiti chāntē viçvamādau.], and likewise see that of
our own work is he the fount and the inspiration, and at the end thereof is he, and therefore
that all our activity is pervaded by peace and good and joy.

The Upanishad says: Knowledge, power, and action are of his nature. [Footnote: Svābhāvikījnāna
bala kriyā cha.]  It is because this naturalness has not yet been born in us that we tend to
divide joy from work.  Our day of work is not our day of joy-- for that we require a holiday;
for, miserable that we are, we cannot find our holiday in our work.  The river finds its holiday
in its onward flow, the fire in its outburst of flame, the scent of the flower in its permeation
of the atmosphere; but in our everyday work there is no such holiday for us.  It is because
we do not let ourselves go, because we do not give ourselves joyously and entirely up to it,
that our work overpowers us.

VII

THE REALISATION OF BEAUTY

Things in which we do not take joy are either a burden upon our minds to be got rid of at any
cost; or they are useful, and therefore in temporary and partial relation to us, becoming burdensome
when their utility is lost; or they are like wandering vagabonds, loitering for a moment on
the outskirts of our recognition, and then passing on.  A thing is only completely our own
when it is a thing of joy to us.

The greater part of this world is to us as if it were nothing. But we cannot allow it to remain
so, for thus it belittles our own self.  The entire world is given to us, and all our powers
have their final meaning in the faith that by their help we are to take possession of our patrimony.

But what is the function of our sense of beauty in this process of the extension of our consciousness?
Is it there to separate truth into strong lights and shadows, and bring it before us in its
uncompromising distinction of beauty and ugliness?  If that were so, then we would have had
to admit that this sense of beauty creates a dissension in our universe and sets up a wall
of hindrance across the highway of communication that leads from everything to all things.

But that cannot be true.  As long as our realisation is incomplete a division necessarily remains
between things known and unknown, pleasant and unpleasant.  But in spite of the dictum of some
philosophers man does not accept any arbitrary and absolute limit to his knowable world.  Every
day his science is penetrating into the region formerly marked in his map as unexplored or
inexplorable.  Our sense of beauty is similarly engaged in ever pushing on its conquests. 
Truth is everywhere, therefore everything is the object of our knowledge.  Beauty is omnipresent,
therefore everything is capable of giving us joy.

In the early days of his history man took everything as a phenomenon of life.  His science
of life began by creating a sharp distinction between life and non-life.  But as it is proceeding
farther and farther the line of demarcation between the animate and inanimate is growing more
and more dim.  In the beginning of our apprehension these sharp lines of contrast are helpful
to us, but as our comprehension becomes clearer they gradually fade away.

The Upanishads have said that all things are created and sustained by an infinite joy.  To
realise this principle of creation we have to start with a division--the division into the
beautiful and the non-beautiful.  Then the apprehension of beauty has to come to us with a
vigorous blow to awaken our consciousness from its primitive lethargy, and it attains its object
by the urgency of the contrast.  Therefore our first acquaintance with beauty is in her dress
of motley colours, that affects us with its stripes and feathers, nay, with its disfigurements.
But as our acquaintance ripens, the apparent discords are resolved into modulations of rhythm.
At first we detach beauty from its surroundings, we hold it apart from the rest, but at the
end we realise its harmony with all.  Then the music of beauty has no more need of exciting
us with loud noise; it renounces violence, and appeals to our heart with the truth that it
is meekness inherits the earth.

In some stage of our growth, in some period of our history, we try to set up a special cult
of beauty, and pare it down to a narrow circuit, so as to make it a matter of pride for a chosen
few.  Then it breeds in its votaries affections and exaggerations, as it did with the Brahmins
in the time of the decadence of Indian civilisation, when the perception of the higher truth
fell away and superstitions grew up unchecked.

In the history of æsthetics there also comes an age of emancipation when the recognition of
beauty in things great and small become easy, and when we see it more in the unassuming harmony
of common objects than in things startling in their singularity.  So much so, that we have
to go through the stages of reaction when in the representation of beauty we try to avoid everything
that is obviously pleasing and that has been crowned by the sanction of convention.  We are
then tempted in defiance to exaggerate the commonness of commonplace things, thereby making
them aggressively uncommon.  To restore harmony we create the discords which are a feature
of all reactions.  We already see in the present age the sign of this æsthetic reaction, which
proves that man has at last come to know that it is only the narrowness of perception which
sharply divides the field of his æsthetic consciousness into ugliness and beauty.  When he
has the power to see things detached from self-interest and from the insistent claims of the
lust of the senses, then alone can he have the true vision of the beauty that is everywhere.
Then only can he see that what is unpleasant to us is not necessarily unbeautiful, but has
its beauty in truth.

When we say that beauty is everywhere we do not mean that the word ugliness should be abolished
from our language, just as it would be absurd to say that there is no such thing as untruth.
Untruth there certainly is, not in the system of the universe, but in our power of comprehension,
as its negative element.  In the same manner there is ugliness in the distorted expression
of beauty in our life and in our art which comes from our imperfect realisation of Truth. 
To a certain extent we can set our life against the law of truth which is in us and which is
in all, and likewise we can give rise to ugliness by going counter to the eternal law of harmony
which is everywhere.

Through our sense of truth we realise law in creation, and through our sense of beauty we realise
harmony in the universe. When we recognise the law in nature we extend our mastery over physical
forces and become powerful; when we recognise the law in our moral nature we attain mastery
over self and become free.  In like manner the more we comprehend the harmony in the physical
world the more our life shares the gladness of creation, and our expression of beauty in art
becomes more truly catholic.  As we become conscious of the harmony in our soul, our apprehension
of the blissfulness of the spirit of the world becomes universal, and the expression of beauty
in our life moves in goodness and love towards the infinite.  This is the ultimate object of
our existence, that we must ever know that "beauty is truth, truth beauty"; we must realise
the whole world in love, for love gives it birth, sustains it, and takes it back to its bosom.
We must have that perfect emancipation of heart which gives us the power to stand at the innermost
centre of things and have the taste of that fullness of disinterested joy which belongs to Brahma.

Music is the purest form of art, and therefore the most direct expression of beauty, with a
form and spirit which is one and simple, and least encumbered with anything extraneous.  We
seem to feel that the manifestation of the infinite in the finite forms of creation is music
itself, silent and visible.  The evening sky, tirelessly repeating the starry constellations,
seems like a child struck with wonder at the mystery of its own first utterance, lisping the
same word over and over again, and listening to it in unceasing joy.  When in the rainy night
of July the darkness is thick upon the meadows and the pattering rain draws veil upon veil
over the stillness of the slumbering earth, this monotony of the rain patter seems to be the
darkness of sound itself.  The gloom of the dim and dense line of trees, the thorny bushes
scattered in the bare heath like floating heads of swimmers with bedraggled hair, the smell
of the damp grass and the wet earth, the spire of the temple rising above the undefined mass
of blackness grouped around the village huts--everything seems like notes rising from the heart
of the night, mingling and losing themselves in the one sound of ceaseless rain filling the sky.

Therefore the true poets, they who are seers, seek to express the universe in terms of music.

They rarely use symbols of painting to express the unfolding of forms, the mingling of endless
lines and colours that goes on every moment on the canvas of the blue sky.

They have their reason.  For the man who paints must have canvas, brush and colour-box.  The
first touch of his brush is very far from the complete idea.  And then when the work is finished
the artist is gone, the windowed picture stands alone, the incessant touches of love of the
creative hand are withdrawn.

But the singer has everything within him.  The notes come out from his very life.  They are
not materials gathered from outside.  His idea and his expression are brother and sister; very
often they are born as twins.  In music the heart reveals itself immediately; it suffers not
from any barrier of alien material.

Therefore though music has to wait for its completeness like any other art, yet at every step
it gives out the beauty of the whole.  As the material of expression even words are barriers,
for their meaning has to be constructed by thought.  But music never has to depend upon any
obvious meaning; it expresses what no words can ever express.

What is more, music and the musician are inseparable.  When the singer departs, his singing
dies with him; it is in eternal union with the life and joy of the master.

This world-song is never for a moment separated from its singer. It is not fashioned from any
outward material.  It is his joy itself taking never-ending form.  It is the great heart sending
the tremor of its thrill over the sky.

There is a perfection in each individual strain of this music, which is the revelation of completion
in the incomplete.  No one of its notes is final, yet each reflects the infinite.

What does it matter if we fail to derive the exact meaning of this great harmony?  Is it not
like the hand meeting the string and drawing out at once all its tones at the touch?  It is
the language of beauty, the caress, that comes from the heart of the world straightway reaches
our heart.

Last night, in the silence which pervaded the darkness, I stood alone and heard the voice of
the singer of eternal melodies. When I went to sleep I closed my eyes with this last thought
in my mind, that even when I remain unconscious in slumber the dance of life will still go
on in the hushed arena of my sleeping body, keeping step with the stars.  The heart will throb,
the blood will leap in the veins, and the millions of living atoms of my body will vibrate
in tune with the note of the harp-string that thrills at the touch of the master.

VIII

THE REALISATION OF THE INFINITE

The Upanishads say: "Man becomes true if in this life he can apprehend God; if not, it is the
greatest calamity for him."

But what is the nature of this attainment of God?  It is quite evident that the infinite is
not like one object among many, to be definitely classified and kept among our possessions,
to be used as an ally specially favouring us in our politics, warfare, money-making, or in
social competitions.  We cannot put our God in the same list with our summer-houses, motor-cars,
or our credit at the bank, as so many people seem to want to do.

We must try to understand the true character of the desire that a man has when his soul longs
for his God.  Does it consist of his wish to make an addition, however valuable, to his belongings?
Emphatically no!  It is an endlessly wearisome task, this continual adding to our stores. 
In fact, when the soul seeks God she seeks her final escape from this incessant gathering and
heaping and never coming to an end.  It is not an additional object the she seeks, but it is
the nityo 'nityānām, the permanent in all that is impermanent, the rasānām rasatamah, the highest
abiding joy unifying all enjoyments.  Therefore when the Upanishads teach us to realise everything
in Brahma, it is not to seek something extra, not to manufacture something new.

Know everything that there is in the universe as enveloped by God.  [Footnote: Īçhāvāsyamdiam
sarvam yat kincha jagatyānjagat.]  Enjoy whatever is given by him and harbour not in your mind
the greed for wealth which is not your own. [Footnoe: Tēna tyaktēna bhunjīţhā mā gŗidhah kasyasviddhanam.]

When you know that whatever there is is filled by him and whatever you have is his gift, then
you realise the infinite in the finite, and the giver in the gifts.  Then you know that all
the facts of the reality have their only meaning in the manifestation of the one truth, and
all your possessions have their only significance for you, not in themselves but in the relation
they establish with the infinite.

So it cannot be said that we can find Brahma as we find other objects; there is no question
of searching from him in one thing in preference to another, in one place instead of somewhere
else. We do not have to run to the grocer's shop for our morning light; we open our eyes and
there it is; so we need only give ourselves up to find that Brahma is everywhere.

This is the reason why Buddha admonished us to free ourselves from the confinement of the life
of the self.  If there were nothing else to take its place more positively perfect and satisfying,
then such admonition would be absolutely unmeaning. No man can seriously consider the advice,
much less have any enthusiasm for it, of surrendering everything one has for gaining nothing
whatever.

So our daily worship of God is not really the process of gradual acquisition of him, but the
daily process of surrendering ourselves, removing all obstacles to union and extending our
consciousness of him in devotion and service, in goodness and in love.

The Upanishads say: Be lost altogether in Brahma like an arrow that has completely penetrated
its target.  Thus to be conscious of being absolutely enveloped by Brahma is not an act of
mere concentration of mind.  It must be the aim of the whole of our life.  In all our thoughts
and deeds we must be conscious of the infinite.  Let the realisation of this truth become easier
every day of our life, that none could live or move if the energy of the all-pervading joy
did not fill the sky.  [Footnote: Ko hyevānyāt kah prānyāt yadesha ākāçha ānando na syāt.]
In all our actions let us feel that impetus of the infinite energy and be glad.

It may be said that the infinite is beyond our attainment, so it is for us as if it were naught.
Yes, if the word attainment implies any idea of possession, then it must be admitted that the
infinite is unattainable.  But we must keep in mind that the highest enjoyment of man is not
in the having but in a getting, which is at the same time not getting.  Our physical pleasures
leave no margin for the unrealised.  They, like the dead satellite of the earth, have but little
atmosphere around them. When we take food and satisfy our hunger it is a complete act of possession.
So long as the hunger is not satisfied it is a pleasure to eat.  For then our enjoyment of
eating touches at every point the infinite.  But, when it attains completion, or in other words,
when our desire for eating reaches the end of the stage of its non-realisation, it reaches
the end of its pleasure. In all our intellectual pleasures the margin is broader, the limit
is far off.  In all our deeper love getting and non-getting run ever parallel.  In one of our
Vaishnava lyrics the lover says to his beloved: "I feel as if I have gazed upon the beauty
of thy face from my birth, yet my eyes are hungry still: as if I have kept thee pressed to
my heart for millions of years, yet my heart is not satisfied."

This makes it clear that it is really the infinite whom we seek in our pleasures.  Our desire
for being wealthy is not a desire for a particular sum of money but it is indefinite, and the
most fleeting of our enjoyments are but the momentary touches of the eternal.  The tragedy
of human life consists in our vain attempts to stretch the limits of things which can never
become unlimited,--to reach the infinite by absurdly adding to the rungs of the ladder of the
finite.

It is evident from this that the real desire of our soul is to get beyond all our possessions.
Surrounded by things she can touch and feel, she cries, "I am weary of getting; ah, where is
he who is never to be got?"

We see everywhere in the history of man that the spirit of renunciation is the deepest reality
of the human soul.  When the soul says of anything, "I do not want it, for I am above it,"
she gives utterance to the highest truth that is in her.  When a girl's life outgrows her doll,
when she realises that in every respect she is more than her doll is, then she throws it away.
By the very act of possession we know that we are greater than the things we possess.  It is
a perfect misery to be kept bound up with things lesser than ourselves.  This it is that Maitreyī
felt when her husband gave her his property on the eve of leaving home.  She asked him, "Would
these material things help one to attain the highest?"--or, in other words, "Are they more
than my soul to me?"  When her husband answered, "They will make you rich in worldly possessions,"
she said at once, "then what am I to do with these?"  It is only when a man truly realises
what his possessions are that he has no more illusions about them; then he knows his soul is
far above these things and he becomes free from their bondage.  Thus man truly realises his
soul by outgrowing his possessions, and man's progress in the path of eternal life is through
a series of renunciations.

That we cannot absolutely possess the infinite being is not a mere intellectual proposition.
It has to be experienced, and this experience is bliss.  The bird, while taking its flight
in the sky, experiences at every beat of its wings that the sky is boundless, that its wings
can never carry it beyond.  Therein lies its joy.  In the cage the sky is limited; it may be
quite enough for all the purposes of the bird's life, only it is not more than is necessary.
The bird cannot rejoice within the limits of the necessary.  It must feel that what it has
is immeasurably more than it ever can want or comprehend, and then only can it be glad.

Thus our soul must soar in the infinite, and she must feel every moment that in the sense of
not being able to come to the end of her attainment is her supreme joy, her final freedom.

Man's abiding happiness is not in getting anything but in giving himself up to what is greater
than himself, to ideas which are larger than his individual life, the idea of his country,
of humanity, of God.  They make it easier for him to part with all that he has, not expecting
his life.  His existence is miserable and sordid till he finds some great idea which can truly
claim his all, which can release him from all attachment to his belongings.  Buddha and Jesus,
and all our great prophets, represent such great ideas.  They hold before us opportunities
for surrendering our all.  When they bring forth their divine alms-bowl we feel we cannot help
giving, and we find that in giving is our truest joy and liberation, for it is uniting ourselves
to that extent with the infinite.

Man is not complete; he is yet to be.  In what he is he is small, and if we could conceive
him stopping there for eternity we should have an idea of the most awful hell that man can
imagine.  In his to be he is infinite, there is his heaven, his deliverance.  His is is occupied
every moment with what it can get and have done with; his to be is hungering for something
which is more than can be got, which he never can lose because he never has possessed.

The finite pole of our existence has its place in the world of necessity.  There man goes about
searching for food to live, clothing to get warmth.  In this region--the region of nature--it
is his function to get things.  The natural man is occupied with enlarging his possessions.

But this act of getting is partial.  It is limited to man's necessities.  We can have a thing
only to the extent of our requirements, just as a vessel can contain water only to the extent
of its emptiness.  Our relation to food is only in feeding, our relation to a house is only
in habitation.  We call it a benefit when a thing is fitted only to some particular want of
ours.  Thus to get is always to get partially, and it never can be otherwise.  So this craving
for acquisition belongs to our finite self.

But that side of our existence whose direction is towards the infinite seeks not wealth, but
freedom and joy.  There the reign of necessity ceases, and there our function is not to get
but to be.  To be what?  To be one with Brahma.  For the region of the infinite is the region
of unity.  Therefore the Upanishads say: If man apprehends God he becomes true.  Here it is
becoming, it is not having more.  Words do no gather bulk when you know their meaning; they
become true by being one with the idea.

Though the West has accepted as its teacher him who boldly proclaimed his oneness with his
Father, and who exhorted his followers to be perfect as God, it has never been reconciled to
this idea of our unity with the infinite being.  It condemns, as a piece of blasphemy, any
implication of man's becoming God. This is certainly not the idea that Christ preached, nor
perhaps the idea of the Christian mystics, but this seems to be the idea that has become popular
in the Christian west.

But the highest wisdom in the East holds that it is not the function of our soul to gain God,
to utilise him for any special material purpose.  All that we can ever aspire to is to become
more and more one with God.  In the region of nature, which is the region of diversity, we
grow by acquisition; in the spiritual world, which is the region of unity, we grow by losing
ourselves, by uniting.  Gaining a thing, as we have said, is by its nature partial, it is limited
only to a particular want; but being is complete, it belongs to our wholeness, it springs not
from any necessity but from our affinity with the infinite, which is the principle of perfection
that we have in our soul.

Yes, we must become Brahma.  We must not shrink to avow this. Our existence is meaningless
if we never can expect to realise the highest perfection that there is.  If we have an aim
and yet can never reach it, then it is no aim at all.

But can it then be said that there is no difference between Brahma and our individual soul?
Of course the difference is obvious.  Call it illusion or ignorance, or whatever name you may
give it, it is there.  You can offer explanations but you cannot explain it away.  Even illusion
is true an illusion.

Brahma is Brahma, he is the infinite ideal of perfection.  But we are not what we truly are;
we are ever to become true, ever to become Brahma.  There is the eternal play of love in the
relation between this being and the becoming; and in the depth of this mystery is the source
of all truth and beauty that sustains the endless march of creation.

In the music of the rushing stream sounds the joyful assurance, "I shall become the sea." 
It is not a vain assumption; it is true humility, for it is the truth.  The river has no other
alternative.  On both sides of its banks it has numerous fields and forests, villages and towns;
it can serve them in various ways, cleanse them and feed them, carry their produce from place
to place.  But it can have only partial relations with these, and however long it may linger
among them it remains separate; it never can become a town or a forest.

But it can and does become the sea.  The lesser moving water has its affinity with the great
motionless water of the ocean.  It moves through the thousand objects on its onward course,
and its motion finds its finality when it reaches the sea.

The river can become the sea, but she can never make the sea part and parcel of herself.  If,
by some chance, she has encircled some broad sheet of water and pretends that she has made
the sea a part of herself, we at once know that it is not so, that her current is still seeking
rest in the great ocean to which it can never set boundaries.

In the same manner, our soul can only become Brahma as the river can become the sea.  Everything
else she touches at one of her points, then leaves and moves on, but she never can leave Brahma
and move beyond him.  Once our soul realises her ultimate object of repose in Brahma, all her
movements acquire a purpose.  It is this ocean of infinite rest which gives significance to
endless activities.  It is this perfectness of being that lends to the imperfection of becoming
that quality of beauty which finds its expression in all poetry, drama and art.

There must be a complete idea that animates a poem.  Every sentence of the poem touches that
idea.  When the reader realises that pervading idea, as he reads on, then the reading of the
poem is full of joy to him.  Then every part of the poem becomes radiantly significant by the
light of the whole.  But if the poem goes on interminably, never expressing the idea of the
whole, only throwing off disconnected images, however beautiful, it becomes wearisome and unprofitable
in the extreme.  The progress of our soul is like a perfect poem.  It has an infinite idea
which once realised makes all movements full of meaning and joy. But if we detach its movements
from that ultimate idea, if we do not see the infinite rest and only see the infinite motion,
then existence appears to us a monstrous evil, impetuously rushing towards an unending aimlessness.

I remember in our childhood we had a teacher who used to make us learn by heart the whole book
of Sanskrit grammer, which is written in symbols, without explaining their meaning to us. 
Day after day we went toiling on, but on towards what, we had not the least notion.  So, as
regards our lessons, we were in the position of the pessimist who only counts the breathless
activities of the world, but cannot see the infinite repose of the perfection whence these
activities are gaining their equilibrium every moment in absolute fitness and harmony.  We
lose all joy in thus contemplating existence, because we miss the truth.  We see the gesticulations
of the dancer, and we imagine these are directed by a ruthless tyranny of chance, while we
are deaf to the eternal music which makes every one of these gestures inevitably spontaneous
and beautiful.  These motions are ever growing into that music of perfection, becoming one
with it, dedicating to that melody at every step the multitudinous forms they go on creating.

And this is the truth of our soul, and this is her joy, that she must ever be growing into
Brahma, that all her movements should be modulated by this ultimate idea, and all her creations
should be given as offerings to the supreme spirit of perfection.

There is a remarkable saying in the Upanishads: I think not that I know him well, or that I
know him, or even that I know him not. [Footnote: Nāham manye suvedeti no na vedeti vedacha.]

By the process of knowledge we can never know the infinite being. But if he is altogether beyond
our reach, then he is absolutely nothing to us.  The truth is that we know him not, yet we
know him.

This has been explained in another saying of the Upanishads: From Brahma words come back baffled,
as well as the mind, but he who knows him by the joy of him is free from all fears. [Footnote:
Yato vācho nivartante aprāpya manasā saha ānandam brahmaņo vidvān na vibheti kutaçchana.]

Knowledge is partial, because our intellect is an instrument, it is only a part of us, it can
give us information about things which can be divided and analysed, and whose properties can
be classified part by part.  But Brahma is perfect, and knowledge which is partial can never
be a knowledge of him.

But he can be known by joy, by love.  For joy is knowledge in its completeness, it is knowing
by our whole being.  Intellect sets us apart from the things to be known, but love knows its
object by fusion.  Such knowledge is immediate and admits no doubt.  It is the same as knowing
our own selves, only more so.

Therefore, as the Upanishads say, mind can never know Brahma, words can never describe him;
he can only be known by our soul, by her joy in him, by her love.  Or, in other words, we can
only come into relation with him by union--union of our whole being. We must be one with our
Father, we must be perfect as he is.

But how can that be?  There can be no grade in infinite perfection.  We cannot grow more and
more into Brahma.  He is the absolute one, and there can be no more or less in him.

Indeed, the realisation of the paramātman, the supreme soul, within our antarātman, our inner
individual soul, is in a state of absolute completion.  We cannot think of it as non- existent
and depending on our limited powers for its gradual construction.  If our relation with the
divine were all a thing of our own making, how should we rely on it as true, and how should
it lend us support?

Yes, we must know that within us we have that where space and time cease to rule and where
the links of evolution are merged in unity.  In that everlasting abode of the ātaman, the soul,
the revelation of the paramātman, the supreme soul, is already complete.  Therefore the Upanishads
say: He who knows Brahman, the true, the all-conscious, and the infinite as hidden in the depths
of the soul, which is the supreme sky (the inner sky of consciousness), enjoys all objects
of desire in union with the all-knowing Brahman.  [Footnote: Satyam jñānam anantam brahma yo
veda nihitam guhāyām paramo vyoman so'çnute sarvān kāmān saha brahmaņa vipasçhite.]

