In this we began to be very successful trappers. Lewis and Clarke were successful because first
we spared no labor nor hardships; to set traps or find a favorable location; secondly because
we bought the best guns and traps in the U.S. Thirdly because we put our money and time all
back in the business; and fourthly because we had had the best kind of training in all kinds
of common furs. I had been well educated for my profession. My teachers were such men as Frank
Johnson who was the best bear trapper in the country. Charley Mackintosh the noted beaver trapper
of the States. William S. Walker who no doubt was the best trapper in any country. he specialized
on Bear, Lynx, Marten and Mountain Lion. Henry Grey was a specialist on Marten he taught me
the art of taking that shy game. And this Same Henry Grey was great a mixer of Compounds; Joe
Whitecup schooled me in Mink except his bait. Shopnegon taught me the crafts of Camping and
sleeping without catching cold, how to travel without a compass by the stars; and when it was
dark and cloudy how to keep from circling around. he taught me how to skin all kinds of game,
and how to make sinew for thred, and awls to sew with and explained roots for indigestion;
and leaves for constipation. Long Knife taught me how to trap skunks, and weasels, and above
all he put me next to rat so I never need ask any other man the nature of that animal. Chief
Broken Bow taught me to walk, shoot, and run, how to exercise and how to get allong with Indians.
How to know when I was in danger, and above all how to keep cool which is the greatest lesson
any man or indian ever learned, either in the woods, on the plains, over the sea; or in the
busy cities. This lesson has saved my life scores of times. I have often wished that Chief
Broken-Bow could have had some successor to continue this teaching, for all the world suffers
and even those who have been to school and college come forth polished as a lizzard--but the
first wave of unexpected excitement, or adverse passion completely distroys them.

I have used the word compound; And I know of no better place to explain myself than in this
chapter. Compounds are scents of various kinds. Or more commonly known as Baits. It is used
to kill the scent of your traps, and to offset human scent. Baits are more profitably used
to draw animals to traps than they are to kill the scent of the traps. Good Baits always serve
the double purpose. While the trap without bait, arouses the animal's suspicion and makes it
cautious, The trap with the bait arouses the animal's passion and draws it to the trap. Certain
odors causes the male to think that a female has frequented the place, and he gets careless
and is caught. This is also true with females, and is true with all species.

Animals like human beings like to appear well. They will instinctively follow certain trails,
go certain places at certain times; and the trapper who learns what is appealing to an animal
is sure of success. The old trappers had to manufacture their own compounds.

They got their meager supply from the wombs, testicles and musk-bags of animals. but they experienced
great difficulty in mixing it to bait the several kinds of animals. For a trapper today to
try to extract his bait from the animal would be sheer folly. only the unsuccessful ever resort
to such a process. Let every man who catches fur bearing animals for a living learn among the
earliest lessons, that he must resort to some kind of bait; else he will fare slim. I have
never known one identical specialist in any phase of trapping who did not use baits, and the
fellow who comes to this imperative, soonest is safe.

I have many friends who deal in baits. And I know that they would like to have me favor them
by speaking about, and recommending their commodity; but I am exhibiting for the education
of the public, and not for the benefit of dealers; hence I shall refrain from recommending
anything that has the least degree of sham about it. I am writing this book to sell, and that
on merits and information, so I feel it my duty to fill it with facts, and useful information,
So regardless of personal friendships, without fear or favor I shall give the public the benefit.

I have used many kinds of baits, and on many occasions, but after years of testing, and a dozen
of different mixtures, I can recommend but one Animal Bait--and that is Manufactured by Funsten
Bros, and Co, In their large Fur House at St. Louis Mo. It is also sold exclusively by them.
Not as a money maker but to aid their many trappers to succeed; because their success depends
upon the trapper.

This compound is the best mixed because Funsten Bros & Co, secured every recipe from old and
experienced trappers, paying a large price for each kind. so it was not manufactured by them
as they are not trappers but dealers, To go well prepared is to be supplied with excellent
baits, and if you have Funsten Animal Baits you have the best.

I have charged you to go well supplied, I should also add that in order to do this Traps should
also be considered.--I have suffered severe losses because I secured poor traps, Buy the New
House Victor or Jump Traps, advertised in Funsten Bros. & Co Catalogue No. 10 or 11. As these
men have the exclusive sale of them, it is enough to warrant their quality. Funsten Bros. &
Co at St. Louis Mo. Have the largest Fur House in the world, and in order to be the largest
they had to prove to be the best. In all my dealing with them I have been courteously treated,
honestly classified, and promptly paid.

It is with pleasure I recommend this house which is an honor to Furriers in America.

Well to return to my narrative,--this was the most excitable and profitable winter we had ever
known, we sold our furs after we broke camp and took a very extensive vacation.

The Roving Trapper

I came to a turning point in my career--I was to Travel and specialize: as a roving trapper.
Only experts can catch a special kind of fur and make it profitable.

I discharged all my old time laborers; and With The Coyote Kidd set out after Mink--There are
three or four distinct species of mink but the Dark are by far the most valuable, these inhabit
the colder regions, they are worth between six dolars and fifteen per skin, according to the
shade and size. The mink is a keen observer, he lives on meat and eggs, being somewhat like
a weasel, also loving blood. The mink is used for collarettes, boas, and ladies coats. A boa
made from black water mink is worth about 50 dollars, a collarette about $100,00 and a coat
reaching down to the hips would cost about $250,00. We took our way to the old rendavous near
the sweet water mountains. While hunting one day I shot a Black tail deer. I was skining him
for meat and was very hungry, I heard a limb crack, turned around; and behold a large grizzly
was coming after my meat; or myself. I thought best to push the deer forward to him, so I made
a rather hasty retreat: and old bruin stopped when he struck the deer. My gun was uncomfortablly
near the dead dear, and the live bear, so I had to go home disarmed.

This was a great grizzly, and he was great. I supposed he would tip the scales at about 1,200
lbs. although some have been caught that weighed 2,250, lbs. these great bears live in the
rocky mountains from Wyoming to Mexico. Their favorite meat is colts, deer and sheep. Their
nails are often found seven inches long, their fur is best in Feb. and March. valued at about
35, dollars apice. their pelts are used for rugs, robes and overcoats.

We trapped from the Sweetwater to the Atlantic peaks, then westward across Horse creek, to
the Colorado desert. then up to Salmon river. We followed salmon river through the seven devil
mountains and left our horses at the XL, ranch and started for the Indian war.

Now we were told by a trapper that there was a bad war on in Montana So we intended to go--for
we loved an excuse to hunt the cunning game--Indians. But when we reached Mont. the war was
in British Columbia. So we sailed up into the cold region and settled at Silver Creek Canada.
We began about October the first setting our traps on spruce river. The Tahoo and Blackfeet
indians inhabit these parts, they are a very jealous class of indians. owing to the great number
of half-breeds. the half breed indian is the smartest, most troublesome of all indians. they
ordered us off their grounds but I had been ordered off hunting and trapping grounds so many
times by indians that I payed no more attention to their threats than I did to mosquito bites.
So they got mad, bristled up, surrounded our camps one night,--well we got away--that is more
than some of them did. Moving down the river and overland about one hundred and seventy miles
we camped on the Blackwater river about fifty miles from the telegraph range. here I had my
first experiences with Work Dogs. we ran out of grub about the tenth of March, and lived the
rest of the winter on Big-horn and Moose. We next moved to Mt. Norris Idaho and after trapping
there a few weeks we sold out and began to prepare for our long contemplated trip to the Amazon
river South America. We sailed from Frisco in July For Brazil Via Cape horn. We landed seventeen
days later in the good port Para, and from there reshipped for Obidos and from there fitted
out for a new experience. It would be foolish to try to explain the real customs and traits
of animals after only having forty days experience for that covers our trapping and hunting
in South America. I did learn considerable about that much discussed animal Monkey. I was taught
by a native how to trap him, the simple remedy I'll give my reader without any extra cost,
although I gave a mexican hat for that recipe. To catch a monky take a ripe cocoa-nut dig out
the three eyes and the meat Fill up the unbroken shell with almost any kind of edibles; then
tie a cord through the two holes and tie the nut fast to a tree or a stake. The monk sees the
nut puts his hand in the tight hole gets a handful of food shuts up his hand this forms a lump
so big that it cannot be drawn back, the monk could at any time get away by simply letting
go the food, but he never will, and hence is easily taken prisoner--how like man is the monky.

I cut my stay short one day when I came nearly having to shoot the pass of a mammoth Boa constrictor--I
concluded I was a fair trapper a common hunter, but no snake charmer--I enjoyed the fruits
and foliage of that summer land, but was glad to get back to Galveston, Texas.

Back Among the Rockies

After we arrived from South America we planned on trapping one winter for Bob-cat Civit Cat
and Mountain Lion. Providing no catastrophes happened bigger than a cat. We trapped the Arkansa,
Big Sandy, Bayou creek and on to poverty flats. Then we crossed over to the Black Hills landing
at Buffalo Gap.

Here a Ranchman hired us to kill Black bear which were killing his colts. The Black bear of
North America is the most harmless of all bears. His average weight is about four hundred pounds.
He lives on honey, grass, berries, weeds, roots, ants, and insects of all kinds. He is the
hardest specie to hunt. When a hunter is on his trail he invariably is next to it, and will
climb upon all the high roots, and logs and peep back on his track to discern the hunter. It
is hard to get a shot at him unless the wind is blowing so you may circle him and shoot from
the windward side. He will stuff a bullet hole with moss to prevent the flow of blood and many
other cute sagacious tricks. He dens up about the 15teenth of Dec. and comes out about the
middle of March, as is usually supposed he comes out poor. But this is a bit of missinformation.
On the other hand he usually crawls out after his long snooze fat as mud.

Well as usual we had a lot of work, accompanied with our usual success. we were well paid for
our hunt, and moved up to the Musselshell river In Montana.

In Montana we caught fine beaver, The beaver is a very instinctive animal. There are several
varieties, The Dam Builder, The Bank Beaver, The Bachelor Beaver and the Drone Beaver. The
beaver ranges in color from white to black. I never saw a white one, and but one black one
except when I looked in the glass. The Beaver weighs from twenty to thirty pounds in the United
States, and from forty to fifty in Alaska. His food is bark, young grass and such foods, They
cut timber down and know where it will fall. I ascertained this because I have known them to
leave trees alone which leaned the wrong direction for them to use. I saw on the North Platte
trees cut down by beaver which were four feet in diameter. They make chips resembling a chopper
with a dull ax. He cuts his timber for winter and anchors it down four feet under water with
mud useing his tail as a scow and also for a spade.

Beaver dams are great hindrances to the man with a conoe, Beaver meadows are splendid feeding
grounds for deer and other animals. I have seen beaver meadows--that is a place where the trees
were all cut down and used--covering hundreds of acres.

After breaking Camp we went to Cordelane Idaho, and from here to Frisco then over to Austrailia,
We sailed out from the Golden gate on the 5th day of June and on the 20th day we reached Bellmont
Aus. From here we went by rail up the Darling river. We spent about fourteen or fifteen days
prospecting for a catch but found nothing inticing but hot winds and hot sunshine, so we cut
our visit short and returned to 'Frisco the latter part of July--

We next went to Idaho and raked up our old gang with new accessories and began trapping on
the Clearwater and camped just below the Continental Divide. We trapped to the St. Joe Divide
and as far south as Bald Mountains. The snow fall in this part is very heavy, we were making
a Deadfall one day when Billy Thorn made a miss cue with his heavy sharp ax and severed his
shin bone and nearly looped off his leg. The ax struck about four inches below the knee, and
nearly cut his leg completely off. We were thirteen miles from headquarters camp. We made a
litter and carried him all the way. He nearly bled to death on the way. There was no Dr. with
in sixty miles. I thought it was up to me their old Chief to perform an operation. I washed
the wound out as clean as posible, cutting away all shreads of flesh with my beaver knife,
I hewed out some sweet birch splinters and tied the limb tight with moose wood bark from his
ankle to his thigh. In three months he was able to walk and after six months he was trapping
as usual. While Thorn was layed up I had a double dose of work to do and grew a little careless,
so mush so that something happened which never happened before--I was cleaning my gun and rooled
it over on my knee. I had forgotten to remove the loads and off she went tearing a big hole
in our camp. I had had a great deal of trouble in my life teaching my men to always be careful
about accidents. This same thing had happened severl times to the other fellows but never to
me before. Most all old trappers and hunters get into trouble of their own, sooner or later
because of carelessness. I never cover up a trap with my hand. I found a trapper starved to
death, caught in his own bear trap by both hands; because he was in the habit of covering up
his traps by hand. I always school the lads to cover every trap with a stick. It is better
because the animal can smell hand marks readily.

