Catharine Huling, the mother of Robert Toombs of Georgia, was a most excellent woman, of strong
and exalted piety. She was of Welsh ancestry, a devout Methodist, and after accompanying her
son to college, and seeing him married, prosperous, and distinguished, died in 1848, when he
was a member of Congress. Mrs. Toombs gave generously of her own means, to family and friends.
Robert Toombs proved to be a dutiful son. He visited his mother constantly, and carefully managed
her property. Finally he induced her to move to Washington, so that he might be near her.

Robert Toombs was the fifth child of Robert and Catharine Toombs. He was born in Wilkes County,
about five miles from Washington, July 2, 1810. His brother Gabriel, who still lives, was three
years his junior, and was throughout his life his close and confidential adviser and friend.

Robert Toombs, in childhood, was a slender, active, mischievous lad, and it will be a surprise
to those who remember his superb physical manhood, to hear that at school and college he bore
the nickname of "Runt." He was marked for his energy and vivacity. He was not precocious. Nature
gave no signs of her intentions in his youth. His development, physical and mental, was not
rapid, but wholesome. He was fond of horseback riding, and the earliest glimpse we have of
him is as a slender lad, with dark eyes and hair slightly touched with auburn, flying through
the village, and sometimes carrying on his pony behind him his little brother to school.

He was always in good health. He boasted that he never took medicine until he was thirty-four
years old. His mother said that he grew up almost without her knowledge, so little trouble
had he given her. He was a fine horseman. Possibly this practice had much to do with his good
spirits and physical strength.

In his younger days he rode sixty-five miles to Milledgeville, covering the distance in one
day, and was fresh enough to attend a dance at night. He delighted in fox-hunting, although
never a racer or in any sense a sporting man. During the earlier years of his career he practiced
law in the saddle, as was the custom with the profession at that time, and never thought of
riding to court on wheels until later in life. Throughout his active participation in the Civil
War he rode his famous mare, "Gray Alice," and was a striking figure as, splendidly mounted
and charged with enthusiasm, he plunged along the lines of the Army of Northern Virginia. In
his long wandering from capture in 1865, he was in the saddle six months, riding to and from
the wilds of northeast Georgia to the swamps of the Chattahoochee. There was something in his
picturesque figure upon the horse which suggests John Randolph of Roanoke.

His first training was at what was known as an "old field school," taught by Welcome Fanning,
a master of good attainments and a firm believer in the discipline of the rod. Afterward, Robert
Toombs was drilled by a private tutor, Rev. Alexander Webster--an adjunct professor of the
University of Georgia and a man of high repute as scholar and instructor. Mr. Webster was the
friend and early preceptor of Alexander H. Stephens.

Young Toombs was christened Robert Augustus, and carried his middle name until 1840, when he
seems to have dropped it as a useless piece of furniture. There is a report that some of his
political foes, playing upon his initials, saddled him with the sobriquet of "Rat." Having
out-grown one nickname he was prepared to shed another.

Young Toombs proved to be a great reader. Most of his learning developed in the Humanities;
and a cultured visitor from Maryland who once stopped at his father's house declared that this
boy of fourteen was better posted in history than anyone he had ever seen.

It was about this time that Robert Toombs was fitted out for Franklin College--now the State
University--located in Athens, Ga., forty miles from Washington.

This institution, to which he was devotedly attached and of whose governing board he was a
member at the time of his death, was chartered in 1785 by the State of Georgia. It was the
early recipient of the deed of western lands, which the State subsequently purchased, assuming
the perpetual endowment of the college. It has been to Georgia what Jefferson's school has
proved to Virginia, the nursery of scholars and statesmen. Governor John Milledge had given
the institution a home upon a beautiful hill overlooking the Oconee River, and this lovely
spot they had named Athens. Here in 1824 young Robert Toombs repaired, animated with the feelings
which move a college boy, except that his mother went with him and relieved him of the usual
sense of loneliness which overtakes the student. Major Robert Toombs, his father, who was an
indigo and tobacco planter, was reputed to be a wealthy man for those times, but it was the
comfort of the early settler who had earned his demesne from the government rather than the
wealth of the capitalist. He had enough to support his family in comfort. He died when Robert
was five years old, and the latter selected as his guardian Thomas W. Cobb, of Greene County,
a cousin of Governor Howell Cobb, a member of Congress himself and a man of high legal attainment.

When Robert Toombs entered college that institution was under the Presidency of Moses Waddell,
a born educator and strict disciplinarian. Three generations of this family have served the
State as preceptors in Franklin College.

It may well be imagined that the college had not at that time reached the dignity of a university,
for an entry in President Waddell's diary was this: "Caught Jones chewing tobacco: whipped
him for it." Those were the old days when boys were boys until they were twenty-one. There
is no record to show that Robert Toombs in college was a close scholar. Later in life he became
a hard student and laborious worker. But if these industrious habits were born to him in Athens
there is no trace of them. That he was a reader of Shakespeare and history he gave ample evidence
in his long career, but if the legends of his college town are to be trusted, he was more noted
for outbreaks of mischief than for close application. Full of life and spirits, a healthy,
impetuous boy, he was on good terms with his classmates, and took life easily. That was a time
when students were required to get up at sunrise and attend prayers.

One night, the story goes, the vigilant proctor actually found young Toombs playing cards with
some of his friends. Fearing a reprimand, Toombs sought his guardian, who happened to be in
Athens on a visit from his home in Greenesboro. It is not certain that young Toombs communicated
the enormity of his offense, but he obtained leave to apply to Dr. Waddell for a letter of
discharge. The learned but severe scholar had not received the proctor's report, and gave the
young student a certificate of honorable dismissal.

Later in the day the President met Toombs walking around the campus.

"Robert Toombs," said he, "you took advantage of me early this morning. I did not then know
that you had been caught at the card-table last evening."

Toombs straightened up and informed the doctor that he was no longer addressing a student of
his college, but a free-born American citizen.

The halls of Athens are fragrant with these stories of Toombs. No man ever left so distinctive
a stamp upon the place or gave such spicy flavor to its traditions.

