VOL. I.--NO. 31.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MORAL PIRATES.

BY WM. L. ALDEN.

CHAPTER I.

"The truth is, John," said Mr. Wilson to his brother, "I am troubled about my boy. Here it
is the first of July, and he can't go back to school until the middle of September. He will
be idle all that time, and I'm afraid he'll get into mischief. Now the other day I found him
reading a wretched story about pirates. Why should a son of mine care to read about pirates?"

"Because he's a boy. All boys like piratical stories. I know, when I was a boy, I thought that
if I could be either a pirate or a stage-driver I should be perfectly happy. Of course you
don't want Harry to read rubbish; but it doesn't follow, because a boy reads stories about
piracy, that he wants to commit murder and robbery. I didn't want to kill anybody: I wanted
to be a moral and benevolent pirate. But here comes Harry across the lawn. What will you give
me if I will find something for him to do this summer that will make him forget all about piracy?"

"I only wish you would. Tell me what your plan is."

"Come here a minute, Harry," said Uncle John. "Now own up: do you like books about pirates?"

"Well, yes, uncle, I do."

"So did I when I was your age. I thought it would be the best fun in the world to be a Red
Revenger of the Seas."

"Wouldn't it, though!" exclaimed Harry. "I don't mean it would be fun to kill people, and to
steal watches, but to have a schooner of your own, and go cruising everywhere, and have storms
and--and--hurricanes, you know."

"Why shouldn't you do it this summer?" asked Uncle John. "If you want to cruise in a craft
of your own, you shall do it; that is, if your father doesn't object. A schooner would be a
little too big for a boy of thirteen, but you and two or three other fellows might make a splendid
cruise in a row-boat. You could have a mast and sail, and you could take provisions and things,
and cruise from Harlem all the way up into the lakes in the Northern woods. It would be all
the same as piracy, except that you would not be committing crimes, and making innocent people
wretched."

"Uncle John, it would be just gorgeous! We'd have a gun, and a lot of fishing-lines, and we
could live on fish and bears. There's bears in the woods, you know."

"You won't find many bears, I'm afraid; but you would have to take a gun, and you might possibly
find a wild-cat or two. Who is there that would go with you?"

"Oh, there's Tom Schuyler, and Joe and Jim Sharpe; and there's Sam McGrath--though he'd be
quarrelling all the time. Maybe Charley Smith's father would let him go. He is a first-rate
fellow. You'd ought to see him play base-ball once!"

"Three boys besides yourself would be enough. If you have too many, there will be too much
risk of quarrelling. There is one thing you must be sure of--no boy must go who can't swim."

"Oh, all the fellows can swim, except Bill Town. He was pretty near drowned last summer. He'd
been bragging about what a stunning swimmer he was, and the boys believed him; so one day one
of the fellows shoved him off the float, where we go in swimming at our school, and he thought
he was dead for sure. The water was only up to his neck, but he couldn't swim a stroke."

"Well, if you can get three good fellows to go with you--boys that you know are not young scamps,
but are the kind of boys that your father would be willing to have you associate with--I'll
give you a boat and a tent, and you shall have a better cruise than any pirate ever had; for
no real pirate ever found any fun in being a thief and a murderer. You go and see Tom and the
Sharpe boys, and tell them about it. I'll see about the boat as soon as you have chosen your crew."

"You are quite sure that your plan is a good one?" asked Mr. Wilson, as the boy vanished, with
sparkling eyes, to search for his comrades. "Isn't it very risky to let the boys go off by
themselves in a boat? Won't they get drowned?"

"There is always more or less danger in boating," replied Uncle John; "but the boys can swim;
and they can not learn prudence and self-reliance without running some risks. Yes, it is a
good plan, I am sure. It will give them plenty of exercise in the open air, and will teach
them to like manly, honest sports. You see that the reason Harry likes piratical stories is
his natural love of adventure. I venture to predict that if their cruise turns out well, those
four boys will think stories of pirates are stupid as well as silly."

So the matter was decided. Harry found that Tom Schuyler and the Sharpe boys were delighted
with the plan, and Uncle John soon obtained the consent of Mr. Schuyler and Mr. Sharpe. The
boys immediately began to make preparations for the cruise; and Uncle John bought a row-boat,
and employed a boat-builder to make such alterations as were necessary to fit it for service.

The boat was what is called a Whitehall row-boat. She was seventeen feet long, and rowed very
easily, and she carried a small mast with a spritsail. By Uncle John's orders an air-tight
box, made of tin, was fitted into each end of the boat, so that, even if she were to be filled
with water, the air in the tin boxes would float her. She was painted white outside, with a
narrow blue streak, and dark brown inside. Harry named her the Whitewing; and his mother made
a beautiful silk signal for her, which was to be carried at the sprit when under sail, and
on a small staff at the bow of the boat at other times. For oars there were two pairs of light
seven-foot sculls, and a pair of ten-foot oars, each of which was to be pulled by a single
boy. The rudder was fitted with a yoke and a pair of lines, and the sail was of new and very
light canvas. On one side of the boat was a little locker, made to hold a gun; and on the other
side were places for fishing-rods and fishing-tackle. When she was brought around to Harlem,
and Harry saw her for the first time, he was so overjoyed that he turned two or three hand-springs,
bringing up during the last one against a post--an exploit which nearly broke his shin, and
induced his uncle to remark that he would never rise to distinction as a Moral Pirate unless
he could give up turning hand-springs while on duty.

Harry could row very fairly, for he belonged to a boat club at school. It was not very much
of a club; but then the club boat was not very much of a boat, being a small, flat-bottomed
skiff, which leaked so badly that she could not be kept afloat unless one boy kept constantly
at work bailing. However, Harry learned to row in her, and he now found this knowledge very
useful. He was anxious to start on the cruise immediately, but his uncle insisted that the
crew must first be trained. "I must teach you to sail, and you must teach your crew to row,"
said Uncle John. "The Department will never consent to let a boat go on a cruise unless her
commander and her crew know their duty."

"What's the Department?" asked Harry.

"The Navy Department in the United States service has the whole charge of the navy, and sends
vessels where it pleases. Now I consider that I represent a Department of Moral Piracy, and
I therefore superintend the fitting out of the Whitewing. You can't expect moral piracy to
flourish unless you respect the Department, and obey its orders."

"All right, uncle," replied Harry. "Of course the Department furnishes stores and everything
else for a cruise, doesn't it?"

"I suppose it must," said his uncle, laughing. "I didn't think of that when I proposed to become
a Department."

The boys met every day at Harlem, and practiced rowing. Uncle John taught them how to sail
the boat, by letting them take her out under sail when there was very little breeze, while
he kept close alongside in another boat very much like the Whitewing. Harry sat in the stern-sheets,
holding the yoke lines. Tom Schuyler, who was fourteen years old, and a boy of more than usual
prudence, sat on the nearest thwart, and held the sheet, which passed under a cleat without
being made fast to it, in his hand. Next came Jim Sharpe, whose business it was to unship the
mast when the captain should order sail to be taken in; and on the forward thwart sat Joe Sharpe,
who was not quite twelve, and who kept the boat-hook within reach, so as to use it on coming
to shore. The boys kept the same positions when rowing, Tom Schuyler being the stroke. Uncle
John told them that if every one always had the same seat, and had a particular duty assigned
to him, it would prevent confusion and dispute, and greatly increase the safety of the vessel
and crew.

It was not long before Harry could sail the boat nicely, and the others, by attending closely
to Uncle John's lessons, learned almost as much as their young captain. So far as boat-sailing
can be taught in fair weather, Harry was carefully and thoroughly taught in six or seven lessons,
and could handle the Whitewing beautifully; but the ability to judge of the weather, to tell
when it is going to blow, and how the wind will probably shift, can, of course, be learned
only by actual experience.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

KENSINGTON CLOVER.

BY MARCIA D. BRADBURY.

  Such a hubbub in the meadow!
    Such a rustling in the grass!
  "I feel injured," sighed the daisy,
    "Things have come to such a pass.
  To be worked in colored worsted,
    Ev'ry shade and line complete,
  Isn't very compliment'ry
    To a stylish marguérite."

  "One might call it," said the poppy,
    In a tone of sleepy fun,
  "Flowers raised by crewel culture--
    Only, please, excuse the pun."
  "Oh, don't joke on such a subject,"
    Said an innocent, rather low,
  While from sev'ral other quarters
    Came a disapproving "No."

  "Really," laughed a sweet red clover,
    "I flushed up quite nervously
  When I saw a head on canvas
    So exceedingly like me.
  If the honey-bee had been there,
    He'd have buzzed about that leaf.
  Ah! I only wish he had been;
    'Twould have served him right--the thief!"

  Suddenly through all this chatter
    Came a voice, like music's flow,
  From a little yellow violet
    Growing in the marsh below.
  All the flowers nodded silence
    As she said--a little pause--
  "What a foolish fuss, my field-mates,
    You have made with no real cause!

  "Are they fragrant? Can you smell them?
    Though they are so bright and fair,
  Do the breezes, when they touch them,
    Carry incense on the air?
  When they fade, will hidden blossoms
    Take the places of those dead?
  Shooting stems and growing leaflets
    Crown the drooping plant instead?"
  And the others, well contented,
    When the violet's song was o'er,
  Tossed their pretty heads and said they
    Wouldn't worry any more.

A TREE ALBUM.

Many of our boys and girls, we venture to say, would like to know how to make a collection
of specimens illustrating the trees of their own neighborhood and of other parts of the country.
We hardly need remind them that the only way to get a complete knowledge and to enjoy the beauty
of natural objects is to examine them closely, and find out all their little peculiarities.
We may take long walks through the groves and woods, and spend a great deal of time there,
and yet when we get home we may know very little about them. We might remember that we had
seen a great many trees, but not be able to tell of what kinds they were, how their branches
and leaves were shaped, how tall they were, or anything about them.

Now such knowledge is very pleasant to have, and will afford a great deal of pure enjoyment.
The more we know about the beautiful trees, the more we will value them, and find entertainment
in admiring them.

It is a good plan to bring home from our rambles small portions of them, so that we can examine
them minutely at our leisure. The bark, the leaves, and the blossoms are the most important;
they are what we look at to recognize a tree, and we should have specimens of each. The first
necessary step is to find some way of arranging and preserving them. A good method is to get
some pasteboard or stout paper, and cut it into sheets of convenient size--say eight inches
long and five wide. Then a box will be needed to keep them in, so that they will not get lost
or soiled. Give one sheet to each tree, and upon it paste a piece of the bark, a leaf, and
a blossom. The bark should not be taken from the tree where it is too coarse and clumsy, but
where it is nearly smooth and perfect, and gives the best idea of the tree; nor should too
thin a piece be taken, as when it gets dry it may wrinkle up and crumble to pieces. It may
be well to take off with the bark a thin layer of the wood to stiffen it and keep it smooth.
A piece of bark about three inches long and two wide would be of a good size.

The blossoms will have to be pressed and dried before they are attached to the sheet. Take
care to lay them so as to show the face and the inside parts as plainly as possible. It may
be well in some cases to press two or more blossoms, laying them in different positions, so
that every part can be seen.

The leaves will be easy, as they are mostly flat. If they are small, several may be taken,
or a little twig. If the under side of the leaf is very different from the upper, or is remarkable
for its hairs, or for any reason, one leaf should be placed with the under side upward. Care
should be taken to do the pasting neatly, so that the sheet will look pretty, and the parts
can be readily examined by the eye alone, or with a magnifying-glass or microscope, which reveals
many interesting facts that can not be discovered by the eye unassisted.

In this way the trees can be studied at any time, even in winter, when the world outside is
bare and dreary, and the evenings are long, and afford fine opportunity for such amusement.
And what is more important still, the sheets prepared as we have shown can be sent through
the mail to distant parts of the land, where the trees displayed on them do not grow, and are
wholly unknown.

Thus our young readers, scattered over the United States and Canada and elsewhere, can supply
each other with specimens, so that each may make up a collection from the trees growing over
a very wide area.

Most trees are very long lived, and some are still living that are known to be hundreds of
years old. Certain kinds of wood, too, seem almost incapable of decay if protected from the
weather.

Probably the oldest timber in the world which has been used by man is that found in the ancient
temples of Egypt, in connection with the stone-work, which is known to be at least four thousand
years old. This, the only wood used in the construction of the temple, is in the form of ties,
holding the end of one stone to another. When two blocks were laid in place, an excavation
about an inch deep was made in each block, into which a tie shaped like an hour-glass was driven.

The ties appear to have been of the tamarisk or shittim wood, of which the ark was constructed--a
sacred tree in ancient Egypt, and now very rarely found in the valley of the Nile. The dovetailed
ties are just as sound now as on the day of their insertion. Although fuel is extremely scarce
in the country, these bits of wood are not large enough to make it an object with the Arabs
to heave off layer after layer to obtain them. Had they been of bronze, half the old temples
would have been destroyed years ago.

