PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

April 18, 1891.

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

[CONTINUED.]

March 13.--Left Billsbury this morning by nine o'clock train, and came back to London. Brought
with me the Billsbury Standard, and the Billsbury Meteor (the Radical paper.) Both have accounts
of last night's meeting. Rather different, though.

    BILLSBURY STANDARD.

    The era of indecision is past. In another column we give a
    full account of the important meeting of the Council of the
    Conservative Association, which was held last night for the
    purpose of selecting a Conservative Candidate for Billsbury.
    The proceedings were enthusiastic and unanimous ... Mr.
    RICHARD B. PATTLE, the selected Conservative Candidate, is
    a young man of the highest promise. He had a distinguished
    career at Oxford, where he obtained honours in History, and
    represented his College in the Torpid races for eight-oared
    crews. Since then he has been called to the Bar, where he
    has already secured a lucrative practice.... His speech last
    night had the right ring about it. It was eloquent, practical,
    convincing, modest and decided, thoroughly in harmony with the
    best traditions of the Conservative party, and remarkable for
    the proof it afforded of the devotion of Conservatives at all
    times to the highest interests of the working classes. We have
    no hesitation in declaring, as Colonel CHORKLE did last night,
    that with such a Candidate to oppose him, the fate of Sir
    THOMAS CHUBSON may be considered as already decided. If only
    all Conservatives will put their shoulders to the wheel and
    work hard, the stigma under which Billsbury now labours will
    be swept away. A Mass Meeting of Conservative electors will be
    held on an early date to ratify the decision of the Council,
    and inaugurate the period of hard work throughout the
    constituency.

    BILLSBURY METEOR.

    Last night the Conservatives gave their annual performance of
    the good old farce entitled, Choosing a Candidate; or, Who's
    got the Money-bags? We are glad to be able to congratulate
    this distinguished body of amateurs on the modest success
    which attended their efforts. Most of the performers are
    well-known to the Billsbury public. Alderman TOLLAND, as the
    heavy father, provoked screams of laughter by the studied
    pomposity of his manner. His unctuous rendering of the
    catch-phrase, "Constitutional Progress," has lost none of its
    old force. Mr. CHORKLE was, perhaps, not so successful as
    we have sometimes seen him in his representation of a real
    Colonel, but the scene in which he attacked and routed
    LINDLEY MURRAY, went extremely well. Mr. JERRAM as a singing
    journalist, was admirable. We cannot help wondering why so
    remarkable an actor should confine himself to the provincial
    stage. We had almost forgotten to mention that the part of
    The Candidate was, on this occasion, assigned to a Mr.
    RICHARD PATTLE, a complete novice, whose evident nervousness
    seriously imperilled the success of the piece. He had omitted
    to learn his part adequately, and the famous soliloquy, "The
    country has need of me," was painfully bungled. Mr. PATTLE has
    few qualifications for the ambitious rôle he essayed, and
    his friends would be doing an act of true kindness if they
    insisted on his withdrawal from a profession for which he is
    in no way fitted. The performance will be repeated as usual
    next year.

I suppose the Meteor people think that witty. When I got home, an awful thing happened. Mother,
of course, wanted to see the papers, so I gave her the Standard, with which she was much pleased.
She said it was evident I had made a wonderful impression, and that the Billsbury Conservatives
were particularly sensible people! But, by some mistake, I left the Meteor lying on the drawing-room
table. It seems that, in the afternoon, that sharp-tongued old hag, Mrs. SPIGOT, called. She
saw the Meteor, took it up, and said, "Dear me, is this something about your son?" Mother,
thinking it was the Standard, said, "Oh yes--do read it, Mrs. SPIGOT; it's a wonderfully accurate
account, RICHARD says;" and that old cat read it all through. She then smiled, and said, "Yes,
very flattering indeed." After she had gone, mother took it up, and, to her horror, found what
it was. She was furious. When I got home in the afternoon, I found her in a state of what Dr.
BAKER calls "extreme nervous excitement," with the Meteor lying in little scraps all over the
drawing-room, just as if a paper-chase had been through there. She said, "Don't let me ever
see that infamous paper again, DICK. The man who wrote it owes you some grudge, of course.
Such a scoundrel ought to be denounced." I said I quite agreed with her. Later on, met VULLIAMY
at the Club. We spoke about Billsbury. He asked me, with a sort of chuckle, if I'd seen the
Star, and advised me to have a look at it, as there was something about me in it. This is what
I found in the column headed "Mainly About People":--

"Mr. RICHARD PATTLE, who is to be the Conservative Candidate for Billsbury at the next election,
is a young man of twenty-six. At Oxford he was generally called 'PODGE PATTLE' by his friends
He took a fourth class in History. His oratorical efforts at the Union were not very striking,
but he rowed in his College Torpid, which was bumped four times.

"Mr. PATTLE, as maybe inferred from his nickname, is neither tall nor thin. He is a member
of the Middle Temple, but his eloquence has not yet astonished the Courts of Law. His father
died five years ago, leaving him a considerable fortune, part of which he proposes to waste
in the hopeless attempt to turn out Sir THOMAS CHUBSON."

Confound the people, I wish they'd mind their own business and leave me alone!

March 17.--Haven't been down to Billsbury again yet, but go the day after to-morrow to speak
at a Mass Meeting of Conservative electors. However, I've had shoals of letters from the place--nearly
all of them asking for subscriptions. The Five Bars Cricket Club, the Lilies Cricket Club,
the Buffaloes Cricket Club, and the Blue Horse Cricket Club have all elected me a vice-president,
and solicit the honour of my support. The Billsbury Free Dispensary is much in want of funds,
and the Secretary points out that Sir THOMAS CHUBSON has subscribed £5 regularly every year.
The United Ironmongers' Friendly Society wishes me to be an Honorary Member. CHUBSON subscribes
£2 2s. to them. The Billsbury Brass Band, and three Quoit Clubs (the game is much played there)
have elected me a member. The Secretary of the former sent me a printed form, which I was to
fill up, stating what instrument I meant to play, and binding myself to attend at least one
Band practice every week. Three "cases of heartrending distress" have appealed to me, "knowing
the goodness of my heart." I shall have to consult TOLLAND, or some one, about all this. I
get the Meteor and the Standard every day. The former goes on chaffing. Don't think JERRAM,
in the Standard, writes as smartly as the other chaps. Must try to get him stirred up a bit.
Just received letter from TOLLAND, saying he wants to talk to me before meeting about "matters
connected with the Registration." More money, I suppose. Romeike, and all kinds of Press-Cutting
Associations, keep on sending me that extract from the Star, till I'm fairly sick of it. They
all want me to subscribe for Press-Cuttings. See them blowed first.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT IT MAY COME TO!

    SCENE--The Central Criminal Court. The usual Company
    assembled, and the place wearing its customary aspect.
    "Standing room only" everywhere, except in the Jury Box, which
    is empty. Prisoner at the Bar.

Judge. This is most annoying! Owing to the refusal of the Jury to serve, the time of the Bar,
the Bench, and, I may even add, the prisoner, is wasted! I really don't know what to do! Mr.
TWENTYBOB, I think you appear for the accused?

Counsel for the Defence. Yes, my Lord.

Judge (with some hesitation). Well, I do not for a moment presume to dictate to you, but it
certainly would get us out of a serious difficulty if your client pleaded guilty. I suppose
you have carefully considered his case, and think it advisable that he should not withdraw
his plea?

Counsel for the Defence. No, my Lord, I certainly cannot advise him to throw up his defence.
It is a serious--a deeply serious--matter for him. I do not anticipate any difficulty in establishing
his innocence before an intelligent jury.

Judge. But we can't get a jury--intelligent or otherwise.

Counsel for the Defence. If no evidence is offered, my client should be discharged.

Counsel for the Prosecution. I beg pardon, but I must set my friend right. Evidence is offered
in support of the charge, my Lord.

Judge. Yes; but there is no properly constituted body to receive and decide upon its credibility.
I am glad that the Grand Jury (to whom I had the privilege of addressing a few observations
upon our unfortunate position) have ignored a larger number of bills than usual; still the
present case is before the Court, and I must dispose of it. Can you assist us in any way, Mr.
PERPLEBAGGE?

Counsel for the Prosecution (smiling). I am afraid not, my Lord.

Judge. Well, I suppose I have no alternative but to order the Prisoner to be taken back to--

Prisoner. To the place I was in last night? No, thankee!--not me! Look here, gemmen all, we
knows one another, don't we? Well, just to oblige you--as Darmoor ain't 'alf bad in the summer,
and as in course I did do it--I plead guilty!

Judge (with a sigh of relief). Prisoner at the Bar, we are infinitely beholden to you! [Passes
regulation sentence with grateful courtesy.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INVECTIVE OF H-RC-RT.

(A FRAGMENT IN HEXAMETERS, NOT BY GEORGE MEREDITH.)

