"The scamp is so vain," continued the malicious Paul, "that he thinks he is stout enough to
manage a giant; and you can use this vanity of his to get rid of him. In the neighboring country
there is an ugly Troll, who is the terror of the whole neighborhood. He devours all the cattle
for ten leagues about, and commits unheard-of devastation everywhere. Now Thumbling has said
a great many times that, if he wanted to, he would make this giant his slave."

"We shall see about this," said the king, who caught at the insinuation of the wicked brother,
and thereupon sent the two brothers away, and slept tranquilly the rest of the night.

The next morning, when the whole court was called together, the king ordered Thumbling to be
sent for; and presently he made his appearance, white as a lily, ruddy as a rose, and smiling
as the morn.

"My good son-in-law," said the king, emphasizing these words, "a hero like yourself cannot
marry a princess without giving her a present worthy of her exalted rank. Now there is in the
neighboring woods a Troll, who, they say, is twenty feet high, and who eats a whole ox for
his breakfast. This fine fellow, with his three-cornered hat, his golden epaulettes, his braided
jacket, and his staff, fifteen feet long, would make a servant indeed worthy of a king. My
daughter begs you to make her this trifling present, after which she will see about giving
you her hand."

"That is not an easy task," answered Thumbling; "but, if it please your Majesty, I will try."

So saying, he went down to the kitchen, took his stout leather bag, put in it the magic axe,
a loaf of bread, some cheese, and a knife, and then, throwing all over his shoulder, started
off for the woods. Peter whimpered, but Paul chuckled, thinking that, his brother once gone,
he should never see him back again.

Once fairly in the forest, Thumbling looked around to right and left; but the grass was so
thick that he couldn't see anything, so he began to sing at the top of his voice,--

    "Master Troll, Master Troll!
    I defy you to appear!
    I must have you, body and soul,
    Master Troll, Master Troll!
    Show yourself, for I AM HERE!"

"AND I AM HERE!" cried the giant, with a terrible shout. "Wait a minute, and I will only make
a mouthful of you!"

"Don't be in a hurry, my good fellow," replied Thumbling, in a little squeaking voice, "I have
a whole hour to give you."

When the Troll came to the place where Thumbling was, he looked around on every side, very
much astonished at not seeing anything. At last, lowering his eyes to the ground, he discovered
what appeared to be a little child, sitting on a fallen tree, with a stout leather bag between
his knees.

"Is it you, pigmy, who woke me up from my nap?" growled the Troll, rolling his great red eyes.

"I am the very one," replied Thumbling, "I have come to take you into my service."

"He! he!" laughed the giant, who was as stupid as he was big, "that is a good joke indeed.

Thumbling carefully placed the axe on the ground, and said, "Chop! chop!! chop!!!"

And lo and behold! the axe begins to chop, hew, hack, now right, now left, and up and down,
till the branches tumble on the Troll's head like hail in autumn.

"Enough, enough!" said the Troll, who began to be alarmed. "Don't destroy my forest. But who
the mischief are you?"

"I am the famous sorcerer THUMBLING," answered our hero, in as gruff a voice as his little
body was capable of; "and I have only to say a single word to chop your head off your shoulders.
You don't know yet with whom you have to do."

The giant hesitated, very much disturbed at what he saw. Meanwhile, Thumbling, who began to
be hungry, opened his stout leather bag, and took out his bread and cheese.

"What is that white stuff?" asked the Troll, who had never seen any cheese before.

"That is a stone," answered Thumbling. He began to eat as eagerly as possible.

"Do you eat stones?" asked the giant.

The Troll was conquered; and, marching before Thumbling like a dog before a little child, he
led him to his monstrous cabin.

"Now listen," said Thumbling to the giant, after they were fairly seated, "one of us has got
to be the master, and the other the servant. Let us make this bargain: if I can't do whatever
you do, I am to be your slave; if you are not able to do whatever I do, you are to be mine."

"Agreed," said the Troll; "I should admire to have such a little servant as you are. It is
too much work for me to think, and you have wit enough for both; so begin with the trial. Here
are my two buckets,--go and get the water to make the soup."

Thumbling looked at the buckets. Do what I do, you know, and get the water."

"What is the good of that?" replied Thumbling, calmly; "I will go and get the spring itself,
and put that in the pot."

"No! no!" said the Troll; "that won't do. You have already half spoiled my forest, and I don't
want you to take my spring away, lest to-morrow I shall go dry. You may attend to the fire,
and I will go and get the water." He then skimmed the broth with a frying-pan, tasting it every
now and then, to see if it was done. When all was ready, he turned to Thumbling, and said:--

"Now to the table. We'll see if you can do what I can there. I feel like eating the whole ox,
and you into the bargain. I think I will serve you for dessert."

"All right," said Thumbling; but before sitting down to the table, he slipped under his jacket
his stout leather bag, which reached down to his feet.

The two champions now set to work. The Troll ate and ate, and Thumbling wasn't idle; only he
pitched everything, beef, cabbage, carrots, and all, into his bag, when the giant wasn't looking.

"Ouf!" at last grunted the Troll; "I can't do much more; I have got to unbutton the lower button
of my waistcoat."

"Eat away, starveling!" cried Thumbling, sticking the half of a cabbage into his bag.

"Ouf!" groaned the giant; "I have got to unbutton another button. But what sort of an ostrich's
stomach have you got, my son? I should think you were used to eating stones!"

"Eat away, lazy-bones!" said Thumbling, sticking a huge junk of beef into his bag.

"Ouf!" sighed the giant, for the third time; "I have got to unbutton the third button. I am
almost suffocated; and how is it with you, sorcerer?"

"Bah!" answered Thumbling; "it is the easiest thing in the world to relieve yourself; and so
saying he took his knife, and slit his jacket and the bag under it the whole length of his stomach.

"It is your turn now," he said to the giant; "do as I do, you know, if you can."

"Your humble servant," replied the Troll; "pray excuse me! I had rather be your servant than
do that; my stomach don't digest steel!"

No sooner said than done; the giant kissed Thumbling's hand in token of submission, and taking
his little master on one shoulder, and a huge bag of gold on the other, he started off for
the king's palace.

V.

They were having a great feast at the palace, and thinking no more of Thumbling than if the
giant had eaten him up a week before; when, all of a sudden, they heard a terrible noise that
shook the palace to its very foundations. It was the Troll, who, finding the great gateway
too low for him to enter, had overturned it with a single kick of his foot. Everybody ran to
the windows, the king among the rest, and there saw Thumbling quietly seated on the shoulder
of his terrible servant.

Our adventurer sprang lightly to the balcony of the second story, where he saw his betrothed,
and, bending gracefully on one knee, he said:--

"Princess, you asked me for a slave; I present you two."

This gallant speech was published the next morning in the Court Gazette; but at the moment
it was said it was quite embarrassing to the poor king; and as he didn't know how to reply
to it, he drew the princess one side, and thus addressed her:--

"My child, I have now no possible excuse for refusing your hand to this daring young man; sacrifice
yourself, my darling, to your country; remember that princesses do not marry to please themselves."

"Pardon me, father," answered the princess, courtesying; "princess or not, every woman likes
to marry according to her taste. Let me defend my rights as I think best."

"Thumbling," added she, aloud, "you are brave and lucky; but that is not enough alone to please
women."

"I know that," answered Thumbling; "it is necessary besides to do their pleasure, and submit
to their caprices."

"You are a witty fellow," said the princess; "and since you understand me so well, I am going
to propose another trial to you. You need not be alarmed, for this time you will only have
me for an antagonist. Let us try and see who will be the sharpest and quickest, and my hand
shall be the prize of the battle."

Thumbling assented, with a low bow, and followed the court into the great hall of audience,
where the trial was to take place. There, to the affright of all, the Troll was found, sprawling
on the floor; for, as the hall was only fifteen feet high, the poor fellow couldn't get up.
On a sign of his young master, he crawled humbly to him, happy and proud to obey. It was Force
itself, in the service of Wit.

"Now," said the princess, "let us begin with some nonsense. It is an old story that women are
not afraid to lie; and we will see which of us will stand the biggest story without objection.
The first one who says, 'That is too much,' will be beaten."

"I am always at the service of your Royal Highness," answered Thumbling; "whether to lie in
sport, or to tell the truth in sober earnest."

"I am sure," began the princess, "that you haven't got a farm half as beautiful as ours; and
it is so large, that, when two shepherds are blowing their horns at each end of it, neither
can hear the other."

"That is nothing at all," said Thumbling; "my father's farm is so large, that, if a heifer
two months old goes in at the gate on one side of it, when she goes out at the other she takes
a calf of her own with her."

"That don't surprise me," said the princess; "but you haven't got half so much milk at your
farm as we have; for we fill, every day, twenty hogsheads, a hundred feet high; and every week,
we make a pile of cheese as high as the big pyramid of Egypt."

"That is nothing at all," said Thumbling. "In my father's dairy they make such big cheeses,
that once, when my father's mare fell into the press, we only found her after travelling seven
days, and she was so much injured that her back was broken. So to mend that I made her a backbone
of a pine-tree, that answered splendidly; till one fine morning the tree took it into its head
to grow, and it grew and grew until it was so high that I climbed up to Heaven on it. There
I looked down, and saw a lady in a white gown spinning sea-foam to make gossamer with. I went
to take hold of it, and snap! the thread broke, and I fell into a rat-hole. There I saw your
father and my mother spinning; and as your father was clumsy, lo and behold, my mother gave
him such a box on the ear, that it made his old wig shake----"

"That is too much!" interrupted the princess. "My father never suffered such an insult in all
his life."

"She said it! she said it!" shouted the giant "Now, master, the princess is ours!"

VI.

But the princess said, blushing: "Not quite yet. I have three riddles to give you, Thumbling;
guess them, and I will obey my father, and become your wife without any more objections. Tell
me, first, what that is which is always falling, and is never broken?"

"Oh!" answered Thumbling, "my mother told me that a long time ago; it is a waterfall."

"That is so," interrupted the giant; "but who would have thought of that."

"Tell me, next," continued the princess, with a slight trembling in her voice, "what is that
that every day goes the same journey, and yet never returns on its steps?"

"Oh!" answered Thumbling, "my mother told me that a long time ago; it is the sun."

"You are right," said the princess, pale with emotion. "And now for my last question, which
you will never guess. What is that that you think, and that I don't think? What is that we
both think, and what is that we neither of us think?"

Thumbling bent his head, and seemed embarrassed; and the Troll whispered to him: "Master, don't
be disturbed. If you can't guess it, just make a sign to me, and I will carry off the princess,
and make an end of the matter at once."

"Be silent, slave!" answered Thumbling. "Force alone can do nothing, my poor friend, and no
one ought to know it better than you. Let me have my own way."

"Madame," said he then to the princess, in the midst of a profound silence, "I hardly dare
guess; and yet in this riddle I plainly perceive my own happiness. I dared to think that your
questions would have no difficulty for me, while you thought the contrary; you have the goodness
to believe that I am not unworthy to please you, while I have hardly the boldness to think
so; finally," added he, smilingly, "what we both think is, that there are bigger fools in the
world than you and I; and what we neither of us think is, that the king, your august father,
and this poor giant have as much--"

"Silence!" interrupted the princess; "here is my hand."

"What were you thinking about me?" asked the king; "I should be delighted to know."

"My dear father," said the princess, embracing him, "we think that you are the wisest of kings,
and the best of fathers."

"It is well!" replied the king, loftily; "and now I must do something for my subjects. Thumbling,
from this moment you are a Duke!"

"Long live Duke Thumbling! long live my master!" shouted the giant, with a terrific roar, that
sounded like a clap of thunder breaking over the palace. But, luckily, there was no harm done,
save badly frightening everybody, and breaking all the windows.

VII.

It would be unnecessary to give a full account of the wedding of the princess and Duke Thumbling.
All weddings are alike; the difference is in what follows after them. Nevertheless, it would
be improper in a truthful historian not to say that the presence of the Troll added a great
deal to the magnificent display. For instance, when the happy couple were returning from the
church, the giant, in the excess of his joy, found nothing better to do than to take the royal
carriage on the top of his head, and to carry the wedded pair back to the palace. This is an
incident worth noting, because it doesn't happen every day.

At night there was a splendid feast at the palace, with suppers, orations, poems, fireworks,
illuminations, and everything. Nothing was wanting, and the joy was universal. Everybody in
the palace laughed, sung, ate, or drank, save one man, who, seated sullenly alone in a dark
corner, amused himself in a very different way from everybody else. It was the surly Paul,
who rejoiced that his ears had been cut off, because he had become deaf, and consequently couldn't
hear the praises all were showering on his brother. On the other hand, he was unhappy, because
he couldn't help seeing the happiness of the bride and bridegroom. So he rushed out into the
forest, where the bears speedily made an end of him; and I wish a like punishment to all envious
people like him.

Thumbling was such a little fellow that it was hard work for his subjects to respect him; but
he was so wise, so affable, and so kind, that he very soon conquered the love of his wife,
and the affection of all his people.

After the death of his father-in-law, he succeeded to the throne, which he occupied fifty-two
years, without anybody ever having thought of a revolution; a fact that would be incredible,
if it were not attested by the official records of his reign. He was so wise, says history,
that he always divined what could best serve or please the humblest of his subjects, while
he was so good, that the pleasures of others constituted his greatest happiness. He only lived
for others.

But why praise his goodness? Is not that the virtue of all men of intelligence and wit? Whatever
others may say, I don't believe there are such things as good brutes here on earth; I speak
now of featherless brutes that go on two legs. When a man is brutal, he cannot be kind and
good; when a man is good, he cannot be brutal;--believe my long experience, which has learned
it. If all blockheads are not vicious,--and I think they are,--all wicked men are necessarily
foolish. And that is the moral of this story, if you can't find a better one. If you will find
me a better, I will go and tell it to the Pope of Rome himself.

From the Finnish.

THE RED-COATS.

There was commotion in Leafland. All the cities of the Great Republic were smitten with sudden
dismay. Oakwich, Mapleton, Ashby, Elmthorpe, Beechworth, Sumachford, Nutham, trembled from
centre to circumference. There were hurried consultations, desperate resolutions rejected as
soon as adopted, eager inventories taken of domestic property, and a fearful looking-for of
coming calamity. For, on the fine September morning when the sun poured out golden showers,
and Leafland sat fair and smiling in robes of green, and so the whole universe was golden-green,
there came a messenger flying from the North country,--a wandering Wood-thrush, deserted, draggled,
and forlorn, faltering on weary wing through the lovely lanes of Leafland. The men begged him
to tarry; the women promised him the daintiest tidbit in the sweetest bower on the sunniest
bough; and the little Leaf-people clapped their tiny hands, and danced on the tips of their
tiny toes for glee. For so admirably managed in Leafland are the Department of the Interior
and the Bureau of Foreign Affairs, that you might think the Leaflanders had solved the great
problem of universal brotherhood. The stranger that is within their gates is all one with him
who is bone of their bone and flesh of their flesh. No sooner does a foreigner enter their
borders, than he is presented with the freedom of all their cities. They provide for his wants,
protect him from danger, and cherish his home as tenderly as if he were one of themselves.
Robin the Red-breast and shy little Veery, Pewee the plaintive and cheerful Chewink, Long-sparrow,
Bluebird, and sweet Chickadee, all glide freely in and out of their green and golden halls,
flit through their winding streets, and take part in all their delights. Nor have the Leaflanders
any trouble to understand bird-language. They have not, like the old Ger-men, eaten the hearts
of birds, but by a more excellent way have they entered into all their secrets. Through long
summer days and the silence of dewy nights, they lean so lovingly over them, they stir so softly
around the still bird-cradles, they coo so tenderly to the sweet egg-nestlings and the helpless
baby-birds, that one heart-language springs up between them, and shines familiarly through
all foreign phrase. Nor is it the birds alone who take out naturalization-papers in Leafland.
All manner of nations and peoples partake of its hospitalities and remember it for blessing.
You have only to be pure-hearted, and you may become at once a Leaflander.

