The party were comfortably seated around the fire, much interested in the success or failure
of the dog's adventure.

"How long will it be before we may expect Turk's return?" inquired a guest.

"The house to which I have sent him is about a mile and a half distant; therefore, if there
is no delay when he barks for admission at the door, and my friend is not absent from home,
he should return in about three-quarters of an hour with a receipt. If, on the other hand,
he cannot gain admission, he may wait for any length of time," replied his master.

Some among the company supported the dog's chances of success, while others were against him.
The evening wore away; the allotted time was exceeded, and a whole hour had passed, but no
dog had returned. Nevertheless, his master was still hopeful.

"I must tell you," said Mr. Prideaux, "that Turk frequently carries notes for me, and as he
knows the house well, he certainly will not make a mistake; perhaps my friend may be dining
out, in which case, Turk will probably wait for a longer time."

Two hours passed; the storm was raging. Mr. Prideaux himself went to the front door, which
flew open before a fierce gust the instant that the lock was turned. The gutters were clogged
with masses of half-melted snow. "Poor Turk!" muttered his master, "this is indeed a wretched
night for you. Perhaps they have kept you in the warm kitchen, and will not allow you to return
in such fearful weather."

When Mr. Prideaux returned to his guests, he could not conceal his disappointment. "Ha!" exclaimed
one, "with a guinea in his mouth, he has probably gone into some house of entertainment where
dogs are supplied with dinner and a warm bed, instead of shivering in a winter's gale!" Jokes
were made at the absent dog's expense, but his master was anxious and annoyed. Poor Turk's
reputation had suffered severely.

It was long past midnight; the guests had departed, the storm was raging, and violent gusts
occasionally shook the house. Mr. Prideaux was alone in his study, and he poked the fire until
it blazed and roared up the chimney. "What can have become of that dog?" exclaimed his master
to himself, now really anxious; "I hope they kept him; most likely they would not send him
back upon such a dreadful night."

Mr. Prideaux's study was close to the front door, and his attention was suddenly directed to
a violent shaking and scratching. In an instant he ran into the hall and unlocked the entrance
door. A mass of filth and mud entered. This was Turk!

The dog was shivering with wet and cold. His usually clean coat was thick with mire, as though
he had been dragged through deep mud. He wagged his tail when he heard his master's voice,
but appeared dejected and ill. The dog was taken downstairs, and immediately placed in a large
tub of hot water, in which he was accustomed to be bathed. It was now discovered that in addition
to mud and dirt, which almost concealed his coat, he was besmeared with blood! Mr. Prideaux
sponged his favorite with warm water, and, to his surprise, he saw wounds of a serious nature;
the dog's throat was badly torn, his back and breast were deeply bitten, and there could be
no doubt that he had been worried by a pack of dogs.

He was now washed clean, and was being rubbed dry with a thick towel while he stood upon a
blanket before the fire. "Why, Turk, old boy, what has been the matter? Tell us all about it,
poor old man!" exclaimed his master.

The dog was now thoroughly warmed and he panted with the heat of the kitchen fire; he opened
his mouth, and the guinea which he had received in trust dropped on the kitchen floor!

"There is some mystery in this," said Mr. Prideaux, "which I will try to discover tomorrow.
He has been set upon by strange dogs, and rather than lose the guinea, he has allowed himself
to be half killed without once opening his mouth in self-defense! Poor Turk!" continued his
master, "you must have lost your way old man, in the darkness and storm; most likely confused
after the unequal fight. What an example you have given us in being faithful to a trust!"

Turk was wonderfully better after his warm bath. He lapped up a large bowl of good thick soup
mixed with bread, and in half an hour was comfortably asleep upon his thick rug by his master's
bedroom door.

THE MYSTERY EXPLAINED

Upon the following morning the storm had cleared away, and a bright sky had succeeded to the
gloom of the preceding night. Immediately after breakfast Mr. Prideaux, accompanied by his
dog (which was, although rather stiff, not much the worse for the rough treatment he had received),
started for a walk toward the house to which he had directed Turk upon the previous evening.
He was anxious to discover whether his friend had been absent, as he believed that the dog
might have been waiting for admittance, and had been perhaps attacked by some dogs in the neighborhood.

The master and Turk had walked for nearly a mile, and had just turned the corner of a street,
when, as they passed a butcher's shop, a large brindled mastiff rushed from the shop-door and
flew at Turk.

"Call your dog off!" shouted Mr. Prideaux to the butcher, who watched the attack with impudent
satisfaction. "Call him off, or my dog will kill him!" continued Mr. Prideaux.

The usually docile Turk had rushed to meet his assailant with a fury that was extraordinary.
With a growl like that of a lion he quickly seized his foe by the throat, and in a fierce struggle
of only a few seconds he threw the brindled dog upon his back. It was in vain that Mr. Prideaux
tried to call him off; he never for an instant relaxed his hold, but with the strength of a
wild beast of prey Turk shook the head of the butcher's dog to the right and left. The butcher
attempted to interfere and lashed him with a huge whip. "Stand clear! fair play! Don't you
strike my dog!" shouted Mr. Prideaux. "Your dog was the first to attack!" Mr. Prideaux seized
Turk by his collar, while the butcher was endeavoring to release his dog from the deadly grip.
At length Mr. Prideaux's voice and action appeared for a moment to create a calm, and he held
back his dog. Turk's flanks were heaving with the intense exertion and excitement of the fight,
and he strained to escape from his master's hold to attack once more his enemy. At length,
by kind words and the caress of the well-known hand, his fury was calmed down.

"Well, that's the most curious adventure I've ever had with a dog!" exclaimed the butcher who
was now completely crestfallen. "Why, that's the very dog! That's the very dog that came by
my shop late last night in the howling storm, and my dog Tiger went at him and tousled him
up completely. I never saw such a cowardly cur; he wouldn't show any fight, although he was
pretty near as big as a donkey; and there my dog Tiger nearly ate half of him, and dragged
the other half about the gutter, till he looked more like an old door-mat than dog; and I thought
he must have killed him; and here he comes out as fresh as paint today."

