"Certainly she did," said Gaetano; "and that makes the matter more charming and pleasant. La
Felina has her caprices as all pretty women, and singers especially. That is the condition
and very qualification of talent. A prima donna who did not keep the public uneasy about her
health, her business, or her amours, one who did not outrage the manager, would not be a complete
woman. How could she? One does not earn a hundred thousand francs a year for acting as if the
salary was only a thousand crowns. It would be vulgar and common and altogether unbecoming
a fine lady. La Felina, therefore, annoyed by the effect produced on the public mind by the
drama of the Trial of Count Monte-Leone, which occupied the attention she thought should be
engrossed by her own performances, would not appear while the trial was going on. She was about
to throw up her engagement, and actually did so, when she was at the Porta-Capuana. The patrons
of the opera, with the empresario at their head, accompanied by the orchestra and troupe, not
wanting an enormous crowd of other admirers of la Diva, and they are many, prevented the carriage
from passing. She was surrounded, pressed, and besought to such a degree that she was dragged
back to her hotel, and promised to sing once more in the Griselda of the Maestro Paër, the
best of all her characters. You can fancy the enthusiasm thus excited, and how all struggle
to secure seats. I paid for mine thrice the usual price, and think I am very fortunate."

For a moment Taddeo said nothing, he saw nothing, and scarcely breathed. He was half stifled
with joy and surprise. To see one again, from whom he had expected to be separated for so long
a time, and perhaps for ever, seemed to him a dream from which he seemed afraid to awake. The
friends of the Count left: all hurried to the theatre to secure an opportunity of being present
at the solemnity.

"Come, come," said Taddeo, hurrying young Brignoli away. "I must go to San Carlo to-night at
any price, even at that of my life!"

"Indeed!" said Gaetano, "I did not think you so passionate a dilettante. You exceed me--to
pay for music with gold is well enough, but with life--ah, that is altogether a different thing;
mine is valuable, and I keep it for greater occasions."

The Count stopped Rovero just as he was about to leave.

"What," said he, with an air of deep concern, "will you not go with me to-morrow to Sorrento?"

"To-morrow, to-morrow, for pity's sake," said Taddeo in a low tone. "Let me be happy to-day,
and I will devote all my life to you."

He left with Gaetano.

"No, no," said Monte-Leone, "I will not wait a day, not an hour, before I see Aminta,--even
if I go to Sorrento alone. I will go thither at once."

"Impossible," said a grave voice behind the Count.

The latter turned around and saw Pignana, who had glided unseen from the room as soon as he
heard the young people leave.

"Why so?" said the Count.

"Why, Monsignore?" replied Pignana, who, casting aside the air and manner of a retired tradesman,
became a dry and cold old man with a dignified bearing. "Because our brothers, terrified at
your arrest, were on the point of dissolving the vente.--Because, it has been reported that
your excellency was on the point of abandoning the cause, and laying aside the functions of
supreme chief:--Because, the principal Carbonari, the agent of whom I am, wish to be informed
of your intentions, and to be assured by you personally that you will not abandon them."

"Then," said the Count, with a gesture of ill-restrained temper, for these political embarrassments
came in conflict with ideas which were far dearer to him, "that is the meaning of what you
said just now. How can I restore confidence to our associates? The Neapolitan police watches
over me; the least imprudence, the slightest exhibition of the existence of our association,
would revive all, and endanger the fate and future success of the society, and also my life.
You have few men of energy among you; you, who are one of the most devoted, trembled in the
presence of my friends. You deserve to be hissed like a bad actor in a good part! Listen to
me, Pignana: I wish to be your chief; I wish to risk a heavy stake in your cause; but now,
especially when heavy matters weigh on me, I do not purpose to appear in political comedy.
I wish to play a serious part, the theories of which are actions, with many deeds and few words.
I will do all that is necessary to serve our cause, but nothing more. Remember this. The Castle
Del Uovo, dungeons beneath the sea, the executioner and conversations with the Grand-Judge,
warn me to be careful and prudent. Ask me, then, nothing more. In eight days our great general
venta will be held at the monastery of San Paola, fifty leagues from Naples. I will be there,
and will tell you what our brethren in France and Germany have informed me of. Until then,
however, question me about nothing."

"We do not, Monsignore," replied Pignana, who was aware of the firmness of the Count, and saw
at once that he had mistaken his course. "The association, which admires your excellency, especially
since the trial, which looks on your excellency as a martyr, asks nothing except one favor,
which will overwhelm it with gratitude and joy."

"And what is that favor?" rejoined the Count.

"That Monsignore will appear to-night at San Carlo in a box, the key of which I have with me.
This box may be seen from every part of the house. All of our principal men will be present,
and if Monsignore will advance, during the interlude, to the front of the box, placing his
hand on his heart, all our friends will know that they may rely on him."

"By my faith, shrewd as the Duke of Palma is, suspicious as the police may be, I do not think
this can be construed into an act of treason. It pledges me to nothing. The ladies to whom
we make the gesture understand it. I will then make this exhibition of my person, as the English
say, and I will increase the interest of the performance by my presence. In a word, I will
appear for the benefit of La Felina. The brave girl and myself will not even then be quits."

"Thank you, Count," said Pignana, as he left--"and now, adieu, until we meet at San Carlo."

       *       *       *       *       *

A few hours after the scene we have described, an immense crowd thronged every entry to the
theatre of San Carlo. It was not, however, the joyous crowd intoxicated with folly which we
have seen hurry into its precincts at the commencement of this story. On this occasion the
public seemed rather busy than in search of pleasure. It was a matter of importance, indeed,
to be present at the last appearance of La Felina. The keys of the boxes, therefore, according
to the Italian custom, were sold at the door of the theatre, and at double the usual price.
I speak only of the small number of boxes, the proprietors of which were absent from Naples.
We may also as well add, that in Naples a box is often property. All the other boxes were occupied
by illustrious personages, or by the wealthiest inhabitants of the great city. San Carlo on
that night was brilliant as possible. The Count had just come. The women glittered with flowers
and diamonds. As on the occasion of the masked ball, the theatre was illuminated a giorno.
No detail of the festival, no beauty present could escape observation. Count Monte-Leone appeared
in the box which had been reserved for him, which soon became the object of every lorgnette
and the theme of every conversation. He bore this annoying attention with icy sang-froid, seeming
even not to observe it. His vanity, however, was secretly gratified, and we have said that
this was his weak point. The overture began, and the curtain was finally raised. During this
time, and the first scenes of the opera, the private conversation was so loud and animated
that the singers and orchestra were almost overpowered. Suddenly silence was restored--admiration
as respectful as that which precedes a sovereign's arrival pervaded all.

The true Queen of Naples, at this moment, was La Felina. This complete calmness was soon succeeded
by a thunder of applause. A thousand voices uttered a long shout of commingled bravos and hurras.
La Felina was on the stage. This delirium produced by a single person, this passionate worship
expressed by an almost furious admiration, those thousand hearts hung to the lips of a single
person, is found only on the stage, and was one of the triumphs which Naples decreed to the
greatest artist in Italy. A report was in circulation, also, which added to this almost furious
admiration. It was said, that she was about to retire for ever, and that this was her last
appearance. The eyes of love have a secret and admirable instinct, enabling them to see what
persons who are indifferent cannot discover. Among this eager and compact crowd, the glances
of La Felina were immediately attracted to a point of the hall, to a single box in which Monte-Leone
sat. To him Felina acted and sang, and she was sublime. At the moment when Paër's heroine appeared,
a single voice was heard above all others, and the person who had uttered it, having exhausted
all the powers of his soul, during the whole time Felina was on the stage, stood with his eyes
fixed on her, as if he had been fascinated by some charm he could not shake off.

"Poor Taddeo," said the Count, when he saw him, "why does she not love him?"

The first act was concluded by a torrent of bouquets, which the audience threw at the feet
of their favorite actress. The curtain fell. This was the moment expected by the associate
of Monte-Leone. Faithful to his promise, the Count leaned forward in his box, naturally as
possible, and looked around the brilliant assembly. He then placed his hand on his heart, and
disappeared in the recess of his box. Before, however, he left, he heard a confused and joyous
murmur, which rose from the parquet to the boxes, and became lost in the arch of the gilded
ceiling.

"They were there," said Monte-Leone, "and Pignana must be satisfied. I have done all he asked
literally."

A few friends joined the Count in his box.

"Indeed, dear Monte-Leone," said one of these, with whom he was most intimate, a friend of
his childhood, "You have resumed your old habits."

"What do you mean?"

"That, scarcely out of prison, I saw you from my box beginning a new intrigue by exchanging
signs with some fair unknown. This, too, at San Carlo. This is bold, indeed, unless the hand
on your heart is the resumption of an old intrigue, interrupted, perhaps, by your imprisonment."

"I do not understand you, Barberini," said the Count, not a little annoyed. "I made no sign
to any one."

"Perhaps so: if you please, I was mistaken. But if I am, it is all the better; for it proves
to me that you no longer adhere to the plans you once confided to me. I was delighted, too,
at what I heard yesterday evening."

"Of what plans do you speak?" replied the Count, moved, in spite of himself, by this half-confidence.

"Mon Dieu! of your own. Did you not tell me that you were passionately fond of the sister of
Taddeo de Sorrento, of the beautiful Aminta Rovero, daughter of the old minister of finances
of Murat?"

"True," said the Count.

"Well," continued Barberini, "I hope you are cured of that love, for you have a rival."

"A rival!" said the Count.

"Yes, and perhaps a happy one."

"Signor," said Monte-Leone, restraining himself with difficulty, "let me tell you I purpose
to make that lady my wife. All that touches her honor, touches mine also."

"I say nothing derogatory to it, but merely repeat what I have heard."

"What have you heard?" said Monte-Leone, and the blood rushed to his head.

"One of my young relations," continued Count Barberini, "was at an entertainment given on the
recurrence of her daughter's birthday by Signora Rovero. He spoke to me of a Frenchman who
is with them, and who seems passionately fond of the young Aminta."

"And then?" said Monte-Leone, with the same tone in which he would have asked the executioner
to strike him with certainty.

"And then! why that is all," said Barberini, who had become terrified at Monte-Leone's manner.
"I heard nothing more.... If I did, I would take care to be silent when you look so furiously.
All this interests me very slightly. One's own love affairs are too troublesome to enable us
to occupy ourselves with those of others.... There, too, is the Countess d'Oliviero, waving
her bouquet so impatiently to and fro that I see she will break it to pieces unless I go. I
must leave you, to save her flowers." The young man left.

"I was right," said he, "not to tell the story of the night affair of which my kinsman was
a witness. I think he would have killed me at once."

III. A PATERNAL LETTER

On the day after the terrible night during which Aminta had strayed in her sleep to the room
of Maulear, two ladies met at about nine in the morning in the saloon of the villa of Sorrento,
and were locked in each other's arms.

"Yes, my child," said one of them, "your sleep has given an interpretation to all that has
passed, and I understand all. Your honor cannot suffer, for you are chaste and pure."

"In your eyes, dear mother, I am; but in those of the world, which they tell me is so envious
and malicious! Even last night, when every eye was fixed on me, I fancied that I read suspicion
and contempt in the expression of more than one."

"No, my child," replied Signora Rovero, clasping her to her heart, "I saw almost all our guests
this morning, immediately before they left. They had already heard of your somnambulism, and
our servants had told how you suffered with it from your childhood. All are convinced of your
innocence."

"Dear mother, do not think so. They spoke to you only with their lips, but believe me guilty."

"Mother," added she, with that strange emotion to which she was sometimes a victim, "I think
that this unfortunate affair is but the beginning of the realization of the unfortunate fate
which I know is reserved for me. It seems to me that on yesterday our evil days began."

She hid her head in her mother's bosom to conceal her tears, and to find a refuge against the
misfortunes she feared.

A servant came in, and said, "The Marquis de Maulear wishes to wait on the ladies."

"Mother, mother," said Aminta, "how can I refrain from blushing before him?"

Signora Rovero bade the servant show the Marquis in. Then arranging Aminta's beautiful hair,
she kissed her forehead, and said:

"Daughter, one never blushes in the presence of a husband."

Aminta, with great surprise, looked at her mother.

"Ah, ah!" said Madame Rovero, with a smile, "a parent's eyes see much."

Before Aminta had time to speak, the Marquis entered. He was pale and excited.

"Signora," said he to Aminta's mother, "I come to beg you to pardon me for a great fault."

"To what, Signor, do you refer?"

"Of the greatest of all faults, after the manner in which I have been received, and your kindness
towards me--for not having confided in you, and said yesterday what I wish to say to-day. Yet
only from you have I kept my secret. Yesterday, nothing obliged you to grant me the favor I
am about to solicit: yesterday, you might have refused it. To-day, perhaps, it will be less
difficult. A circumstance favorable only to myself," added he, with a timid glance at Aminta,
"marks out my conduct, which assumes now the aspect of an obligation. It fulfils all my wishes,
and makes me the happiest of men. In one word, signora, I come to beg that you will suffer
me to become allied to your family."

"Marquis," said Signora Rovero, "I expected to hear you speak thus, for I was sure of your
honor. But far from wishing that now for the first time you had informed my daughter of the
sentiments with which she has inspired you, I rejoice that your course has been different.
Without this motive, signor, neither my daughter nor I would accept the alliance you wish to
offer us. No reparation can be exacted, where no fault has been committed. I wish to strengthen
your conscience, by assuring you, that in my opinion nothing obliges you to the course you
have adopted, if it interferes with your prospects and success."

The last expressions of Signora Rovero produced a deep sensation on Maulear, and a shadow of
uneasiness passed over his brow. She had ignorantly touched a sensitive chord of the heart
of the young lover. Led astray by his heart, seduced invincibly by charms which were so new
to him, Maulear, under the influence of passion, had entered on the flowery route, at the end
of which he caught a glimpse of happiness. In the delirium of passion, he had forgotten that
a severe judge, that the imperious master of his destiny, that a father, with principles eminently
aristocratic, like all fathers in 1768, awaited to absolve or acquit him, to receive or repel
him, to unite or to sever--in one word, to make him happy or miserable. All these important
ideas were at once evoked in the mind of Maulear by the last sentence Signora Rovero had uttered.
It was this hidden and sombre apparition which arose between Maulear and her he loved, the
sinister aspect of which was reflected in a manner by the expression of Aminta's lover.

Signorina Rovero perceived it, and with the acute discrimination she possessed to so high a
degree, said, in the melodious tones which touched all who heard them:

"Marquis, my mother has spoken for her family, I will speak for myself. You have informed us
of the noble family to which you belong. I know that your wife one day will be a princess,
and I wish you to remember, that she, to whom you offer this title, is the daughter of 'a noble
of yesterday;' the glory of whom is derived from her daughter's virtues. This, Marquis, I say
not for you, but for others. Excuse me, too, for what you are about to hear. If I have need
of courage to own it to you, perhaps you will require all your generosity to hearken to it."
With a trembling voice she added: "As yet, I do not reciprocate the sentiments you have expressed.
To the hope, though, which I permitted you to entertain yesterday, let me add, that I am additionally
gratified by the offer of your hand; for in the eyes of many persons, signor, in the eyes of
those who were witnesses of our presence together last night, you would not now marry her you
were anxious to espouse yesterday.

"I shall marry an angel!" said Maulear, falling on his knees before Aminta, "an angel of candor
and virtue. If your heart does not yet reciprocate the love you inspire, my care and tenderness
will so delight you, that some day you will love me."

"Well, then," said she to Maulear, "grant me one favor. Suffer me to await that day. Take pity
on a poor girl full of terror and apprehension, at a tie she has always feared. Grant her heart
time to make itself worthy of you, Marquis, and remember that until then you are free. As my
mother has told you, nothing binds you to me. Now you owe me nothing, nor will you, until I
shall confide my destiny to your hands, when you will owe me the happiness you promise me."

"You do not consent? Then, Signorina, I will wait. Henceforth, however, I am pledged to you;
and my hand and heart are yours."

Just then a servant told Maulear that a courier from Naples had brought him important letters.
The Marquis bade adieu to the two ladies, and left.

"My child," said Signora Rovero, in a tone of affectionate reproach, "what must a man do to
win your love?"

"I do not know; I am certainly foolish, but I am afraid!"

Maulear found the courier of the French embassy in his room. "An urgent letter from France,"
said he, to Maulear.

Henri read the direction and shuddered. It was from the Prince de Maulear. The Prince wrote
rarely. What did he ask? The son who felt that he had acted incorrectly in disposing of his
hand, without consulting the head of his family, trembled before he broke the seal. The character
of Maulear was weak, as we have said, and, like people of this kind, the prospect of danger
and misfortune annoyed him more than the reality itself. At last he resolved to know all, and
with a trembling hand opened the letter. He read as follows:

    "Paris, April 10, 1816.

"MY SON:--I often hear of you, not through your own letters, for you write rarely, but through
other friends, whom I have requested to keep me au fait. I know what kind of life you lead
at Naples, and am dissatisfied with you. The son of a shop-keeper and a banker would act more
like a gentleman than you. People talk of you here no better than they do of the deputy of
the hangman. I had hoped the Marquis de Maulear would behave more correctly in a foreign country.
I was no older than you are, when I went as secretary of legation to Madrid. Three months afterwards
I was recalled. I had run away with three women, fought four duels, and lost at cards fifty
thousand crowns. That was something to be recalled for. It was an assurance that in future
I would be reasonable. When our youth reasons, and does not laugh, things go wrong. The King
spoke to me yesterday about you. He asked me, if you found any thing to amuse you at Naples.
I replied that you found too much to amuse you. 'I am glad of it,' said the King, 'so our family
honor at least is saved.' Since, however, you are most ignobly virtuous, I have tried to turn
the affair to the best advantage. I have brought about a magnificent match for you, to supersede
one I have heard you were making for yourself. The lady is rich, noble, and beautiful. She
is the daughter of the Duke d'Harcourt, one of the gentlemen in waiting of his majesty. You
may, perhaps, at Naples have seen René d'Harcourt, the brother of the lady. The marriage will
take place three months hence. I trust I have surprised you not unpleasantly. Adieu, my son.
Your aunt, the Countess, sends her love to you, and amuses herself with the preparation of
your corbeille.

    "LE PRINCE DE MAULEAR.

"P.S. You have three months' more folly before you, and for the rest of your life you must
be prudent. I have opened a credit of one hundred thousand livres in your favor, with the banker
Antonio Lamberti."

The letter fell from the hands of the Marquis, and he sank on his chair completely overwhelmed.
Like a thunder-bolt, it aroused him from a happy dream. There are, in fact, in all love matters,
certain moments of intoxication, when men, ordinarily sensible, become blunderers. For a month
the Marquis had been in this condition, half reasonable, half mad. Living with one thought
prominent, all others were indistinct to him. To him love was every thing. His father, with
his antiquated obstinacy, imbued with retrograde principles, disappeared like a ghost before
the brilliant reality of passion. Besides, fear of a rival, dread of the brilliant Count Monte-Leone,
who, full of love, as Henri had heard, aspired to nothing more than to become the husband of
Aminta left him no other alternative, than to do what another was about to--make an offering
of his hand and faith. Lovers, too, see nothing but the object of their passion; and Henri
sometimes thought his father would agree with him. The strange epistle of the Prince had however
reversed all his dreams. The anger of the Prince when he should learn that a marriage had been
contracted, contrary to his wishes, and in spite of his orders, might possibly exert a terrible
influence on the fortune and future fate of the young couple; without regarding the chagrin
and humiliation to which he would subject Aminta by bringing her into a family without the
consent of its head.

Maulear passed three days in this cruel perplexity, sometimes hoping and then fearing that
Aminta would yield to his prayer. His heart wished. His mind feared. If Signorina Rovero should
accept his hand, it would be necessary for him to decide, to act; and then, from the weakness
of his character, Maulear would be subjected to cruel uncertainty.

A few days after the scene which had occurred in his room, Maulear and the ladies sat together
in a boudoir near the salon, which opened on the park, a view of which Aminta was taking. The
Marquis had been reading to the ladies the trial of Count Monte-Leone from the Diario di Napoli.
This curious story, full of surprises, the noble energy, the wonderful sang-froid of the Count,
the remarks of the journalist on the character of the prisoner, and the unjust accusation to
which he had been subjected, and which he had so completely refuted, and to which he had submitted
with such nobleness and heroism, all was listened to with the greatest interest. Maulear had
read all this much to his own dissatisfaction, because Signora Rovero had requested it. The
praises of Monte-Leone were most unpleasant to him.

Aminta heard every word. Every detail of the Count's daring, every change of character in this
judicial drama, awakened an inexplicable emotion in her. It seemed that Count Monte-Leone,
to whose singular story she had listened, was a far different man from the one she had imagined
him to be. His powerful mind, his exalted soul, all the powers of which had been developed
by the trial, conferred on Monte-Leone new proportions hitherto not realized by her. Count
Monte-Leone, whom she had seen at home, almost timid in the presence of her he adored, annoyed
by his false position as a refugee, suffering from a passion he dared not own, was not the
person of whom she had heard for the past month. Looking down on her drawing, which her increasing
absence of mind made almost invisible to her, Aminta sought to recall the features of the Count
which had been nearly effaced from her memory. Gradually, however, they arose before her. Had
her mother then spoken, had her glances been diverted from the album on which they were fixed,
a strange trouble and confusion would have been visible, when aroused from this meditation.
The sound of wheels entering the court yard of the villa broke the charm which entranced Aminta,
and made Signora Rovero utter a cry of joy.

"It is he," cried she. "It is he who returns, my son Taddeo. Daughter, let us hurry to meet
him. Let us be the first to embrace him."

Accompanied by Maulear, the two ladies hurried into the vestibule, which they crossed, standing
at the villa-door just as the carriage stopped. A man left it and bowed respectfully to Signora
Rovero and her daughter. This man was MONTE-LEONE.

IV.--TWO RIVALS.

Much had passed since Count Barberini had told Monte-Leone of the love of Maulear for Aminta
Rovero. Monte-Leone felt all the furies of hell glide into his heart at this revelation. The
idea that Aminta could love any one had never entered his mind. Whether from confidence in
her, or from that error so common to lovers that they are entitled to love because they love
themselves, Monte-Leone flattered himself that he had left a pleasant recollection in Aminta's
mind. We may therefore imagine how painfully the Count was disturbed by the half-confidence
of Barberini. Yet Taddeo, his friend, whom, he loved as a brother, could not have deceived
him, and have concealed what had taken place at Sorrento, when he had received so cordially
the hand of his sister. Taddeo, then, was ignorant of it. Monte-Leone, a prey to a thousand
thoughts, left his box, forgetful of the opera, his friends and companions, with but one object
and wish. He was determined to see Taddeo, to question him and find out who was the rival that
menaced his happiness, and whom Aminta probably loved. The Count went to that part of the theatre
in which he had seen Aminta. The second act, however, was about to begin; and the efforts of
Monte-Leone to get near his friend created such murmurs, complaints, and anger, that he was
obliged to wait for a more favorable opportunity. La Griselda was singing the andante of her
cavatina, and the artist's magnificent, powerful, and tender voice, echoing through the vastness
of the hall, fell in pearly notes like a shower of diamonds on the ears of the spectators.
After the andante came the caballeta, and then the coda-finale. For a while one might have
thought the four thousand spectators had but one breath, and were animated by a single heart,
that they restrained the first to prevent the pulsations of the other from being disturbed.
This gem of the opera was at last concluded, and mad applause rose from every part of the room.
We are constrained, however, to say, that from this time the accents of La Felina were less
passionate and brilliant, and that a veil, as it were, was extended over all the rest of the
representation, so that a person who had heard only the second act of La Griselda would have
asked with surprise, if it was really the wonderful prima donna, the songs of whom were purchased
with gold, and the wonderful talent of whom, had enslaved the audiences of the great Italian
theatres. The reason was, that, after the second act, the star which shone on La Felina had
become eclipsed. Monte-Leone had left his box--the box which had been the source of Griselda's
inspiration from the commencement of the first act. Hope had sustained the singer during the
cavatina, at the beginning of the second act. She fancied that he whom she loved possibly heard
her from the recess of some other box. When, however, she was satisfied that he was gone, despair
took possession of her. "Nothing touches his heart," said she, with pain. "Neither my love
nor my talent are able to captivate him--to attach him to me for a time." Thenceforth, as she
sang for him alone, she sang for no one. The holy fire was extinguished. Genius unfurled its
wings and flew to the unknown regions of art, whence passion had won it. La Felina finished
the opera, as a prima donna should, rendering the music precisely and distinctly, note for
note, and as her score required. She neither added a single fioritura nor a single ornament
which had not been noted by the composer. In one word, the audience at San Carlo on that day
heard the opera of the Maestro Paër and not La Felina. During this, Monte-Leone, who had given
up all hopes of reaching Taddeo, and whom Taddeo, paying attention only to the artiste, had
neither heard nor seen, Monte-Leone walked in front of the opera-house, a prey to the greatest
agitation, impatiently waiting for the conclusion of the representation, to see his friend
and hear from him what he had to hope or fear at Sorrento.

The opera ended. The crowd slowly dispersed, and Monte-Leone, wrapped up in his cloak, watched
with anxiety every spectator who left the theatre. Taddeo did not come. The doors of the theatre
were closed, and the Count still waited. Surprised and impatient he went to his hotel, where
Taddeo also lived, but he was not there. Night passed away, and he did not come. About three
in the morning a stranger was shown in, and gave Monte-Leone three letters. One of them was
addressed to the Count: he opened it anxiously.

"Excuse me, my dear friend, at quitting you thus. Excuse me, especially the uneasiness I have
created in your mind"--wrote Taddeo--"I have learned that she left Naples to-night, and if
I leave her I shall die. I will follow her by post and on horseback, without stopping, until
I shall learn whither she has gone. What will I do then! I do not know,--but at least I will
know where she is, and I will not fancy that she is lost to me for ever. 'To-morrow,' said
she, when she left us, 'you will love me less.' She was mistaken, my friend, or she has deceived
me; for to-day I love her better than I did yesterday. My heart suffers too much for me not
to sympathize with yours, and I understand how impatient you are to go to Sorrento. I send
a letter to my good mother--give it yourself to her. I beg her to receive you as a friend,
and as she would receive a brother of mine. Stay with her until I come back. Say that in three
days I will come back to ask her to give you Aminta's hand."

"Has the person who gave you these letters gone?" asked Monte-Leone of the messenger.

"He went an hour since from the post-house, on one of our best horses," said the messenger.

Monte-Leone gave him a piece of gold and dismissed him.

"Poor Taddeo!" said he, "to suffer as well as I do--no no, not so much as I do; for earthly
love cannot be compared with heavenly passion. Jealousy such as I suffer can be compared to
nothing; and all is derived from the serpent's stings, with which Barberini pricked my heart."

The time until day seemed interminable to Monte-Leone. It came at last. The Count rang for
Giacomo and dressed himself elegantly. The old man on this occasion assisted him cheerfully
and zealously, as he had previously shown repugnance on the night of the terrible expedition
at Torre-del-Greco. Monte-Leone ordered his handsomest equipage. A few minutes afterwards the
horses pawed impatiently in the court-yard, so that the driver could with difficulty restrain
them. When the Count came down, he found Giacomo standing in the door of the saloon so as to
bar his egress. Pale and agitated, the old man restrained the Count, and in a stern, quarrelsome
voice said:

"What is the matter now? what new folly are you about to commit?"

"What the devil do you mean?" asked the Count, taking hold of the intendant's hand.

"No, Monsignore, you shall not go," said Giacomo, extending his arms so as completely to shut
the door, "unless you serve me as you did Stenio Salvatori. Is it not a shame that the noblest
of the gentlemen of Naples, that the son of my master, should walk abroad armed like the bravo
of Venice--with a sword, poniard and pistol in his bosom? What, if you please, was that box
of pistols, placed by little Jack, your groom, as those animals are called in England, in your
carriage?"

"What is it to you?" said the Count, impatiently.

"What is it to me?" asked the old man with tears in his eyes. "Are you not again about to risk
your life against I know not whom nor why? What is it to me? That you may live, that my last
days may not be passed in uneasiness and despair, like those which have gone by--for I love
you. Count," said the old man, kneeling before his master, "I love you as a father loves his
son. I held you in my arms when you were a child. For heaven's sake renounce your dangerous
plans, renounce the acquaintance of those rascally mysterious looking men who come so often
to see you. Have nothing to say to that rascally Signor Pignana, whom I would so gladly see
hung. Be again happy, gay, and joyous, as you used to he. True, we were ruining ourselves,
but we were not conspirators."

The Count gave his hand to Giacomo.

"Giacomo, my good fellow," said he, "I am about to engage in no conspiracy."

"What then?"

"I am about to marry," said Monte-Leone, with a smile.

"Marry! with a case of pistols as a wedding present?"

"Why!" said the Count, moodily, "I may perhaps meet enemies on the road. Now I have more than
life to protect: I have my honor."

Monte-Leone, making an affectionate gesture to the old man, descended gayly and sprang into
the coach, which bore him rapidly towards Sorrento, and stopped at the door of Signora Rovero's
house, as we have previously said.

When she saw Monte-Leone, instead of Taddeo, Signora Rovero trembled.

"Signor," said she to the Count, "for heaven's sake tell me what evil tidings you bear. What
misfortune has befallen Taddeo?"

"In two days, Signora, Taddeo will be here, and I have the difficult duty to excuse his absence.
He has, however, asked me to deliver you his letter, which explains all."

Signora Rovero took the letter and opened it with eagerness.

"Excuse me, Signor," said she to the Count, "but you must make allowance for a mother's anxiety."

"So be it," she observed, after having read it. "Taddeo is in no danger if we except that his
fortune may be bad. A hunting party in the mountains will detain him for two days from us."

"Count," said Signora Rovero, "my son speaks so affectionately of you that I am led to offer
you my own love."

"I have the advantage in that respect, Signora, for the kindness with which you treated me
while here, and the memories I bore away, have ever since inspired the deepest affection for you."

They entered the saloon, and Signora Rovero introduced Maulear to Monte-Leone. They saluted
each other with the most exquisite politeness, but without exchanging a glance.

Between love and hate there is this in common: it sees without the eye; it hears without the
ear. Love has a presentiment of love, and hatred of hatred.

Monte-Leone approached Aminta. All his power and energy were insufficient to triumph over the
violent agitation which took possession of him when he spoke to the young girl. His loving
heart offered but faint opposition to the torrent of passion, which had been so long repressed
that it was ready to bear away every obstacle. Aminta blushed and became troubled when she
recognized in the vibration of his voice all the emotion Monte-Leone experienced. The conversation
became general. Signora Rovero spoke to the Count of his trial, the incidents of which the
Marquis had been kind enough to read. The Count bowed to the Marquis as if to acknowledge a
favor. Maulear looked away to avoid the necessity of acknowledging it. The Count seemed not
to perceive it. Aminta became aware that if he kept silent longer the circumstance would be
remarked.

"During your imprisonment, Count, in the Castle Del Uovo, I have heard that a terrible episode
occurred, the details of which the Diaro does not give."

"The reason was the Diario did not know them. True, like other journalists he might have invented
them, but he did not do so; and, perhaps, acted well, for his fancies could not have equalled
the truth."

The Count then simply, without exaggeration, and especially without that petition for pity
which is so frequently met with, told the story of the terrible scene in the prison.

Aminta listened to every word. She suffered with the prisoner, hoped with him, and followed
all the details of the story, exhibiting the most profound pity for the occurrence. Signora
Rovero sympathized with her daughter, and, for the time, Monte-Leone was the hero of the villa.
All the prejudices of Aminta disappeared in a moment in the presence of Monte-Leone, as the
morning vapors are dispersed by the first rays of the sun.

Maulear, in icy silence, listened to the Count and looked at Aminta. As he did so, his brow
became covered with clouds precisely as that of Aminta began to grow bright. The latter, perceiving
the painful impressions of the Marquis, extended every attention to him, so that Monte-Leone
began to grow moody. The two rivals passed the whole day in alternations of hope and fear,
happiness and suffering. The state of things, however, was too tense to be of long duration.
These few hours seemed centuries to the adorers of Aminta, and if any one had been able to
look into the depths of their ulcerated hearts, he would have seen that a spark would have
produced an explosion. Many of the neighbors of Signora Rovero, who had not visited her since
the ball, ventured to return. Among others present was Gaetano Brignoli. All loved him for
his frank and pleasant off-hand speeches, and all received him with good humor and confidence.
Maulear, who had laid aside his dislike, received him kindly, as he had previously done distantly.
The Rose of Sorrento reproached Gaetano with having forgotten his promise.

"You should yourself on the next day," said she, "have given me news of Taddeo and of Monte-Leone's
trial. You, however, only wrote. Friends like you, and brothers like mine, are unworthy of
the affection bestowed on them." Then, like a child making friends with a playmate, she took
Gaetano into the embrasure of a meadow, and began to talk with him in a low tone. The night
promised to be brilliant and serene, and the air to be soft and pleasant. The evening breeze
penetrated into the saloon, refreshing the atmosphere with the respiration of the sea. "What
a magnificent evening, Marquis," said Monte-Leone to Maulear, as he approached him, and looked
at the stars which had begun to dot the sky.

It was the first time the Count had spoken to the Marquis directly. The latter trembled as
a soldier who hears the sound of the first battle signal. His emotion was short, and saluting
the Count affably as possible, he replied:

"It, is a winter evening in Italy, Count, but in France it would be one of summer."

"Do you not think," said Monte-Leone, "that this is the proper hour for exercise, in this country?
The complete repose of nature, the eloquent silence of night, all invite us to confidence,
and make us wish for isolation and solitude--"

"Count," said Maulear, "do you wish for a half solitude; a desert inhabited by two persons?"

"Certainly, that is what I mean."

"So do I, and would participate in yours."

"Come, then, I never saw a more beautiful night, and I shall be charmed to enjoy it with you."

These two men, with rage in their hearts, each being an impregnable barrier to the happiness
of the other, loving the same woman in the same way, resolved to contend for her, to their
last breath;--these two men left the saloon, with smiles on their lips, like friends about
to listen to the secret thoughts of each other beneath the shadow of some beautiful landscape,
in happiness and pleasure.

Aminta saw them go out. She grew pale, and suffered so that she leaned against the window-case.

V. THREE RIVALS.

Count Monte-Leone and the Marquis de Maulear entered together a vast and beautiful avenue,
silvered over by a brilliant moon.

"Signor," said the Count to Maulear, "do you ever have waking dreams? Can you, by the power
of your imagination, transport yourself into the future, and, as it were, read your destiny,
with all its prosperous and unfortunate incidents, its pleasures and chagrins? This often happens
to me, especially by day and when I am unhappy. For a long time, too, I have been unhappy.
For instance, not long ago, when shut up in a dark prison, with no prospect before me but that
of an unjust death, and the headsman's axe bringing to a close my sad and eventful career,
my good angel certainly, for I believe in such beings, sent, two hundred feet below the surface
of the earth, a vision of dazzling light and beauty. I was transported beneath the green shadows
of myrtles and orange-trees; I breathed an atmosphere impregnated with intoxicating and balsamic
perfumes, while near me, with her hand in mine, and her heart beating on my bosom, was a young
girl, destined to be my guide through this life of misery; the angel, in fact, of whom I spoke
just now. Sorrows, suffering, injustice, the dungeon, and the executioner, all disappeared,
and I enjoyed all the luxury of this heavenly revelation; and I said, for the realization of
this heavenly revelation, the heart's blood would not be too dear a price. Do you not think
so, Marquis?"

"I do, Count," said Maulear, "and especially so, because what your rich imagination has created
for you, chance, or my good genius--for I too have faith in them--has displayed before me,
not in the delirium of a dream, but in reality. I have seen the myrtle groves of which you
dreamed: I have breathed the perfumes you describe so well: I have found the woman your imagination
has shadowed to me. I found her one day when I did not expect to do so. I found one more beautiful
than I had fancied woman could be, gifted with such charms, grace, and virtue, that I ask myself
frequently whether such a being can belong to earth."

"Marquis," said Monte-Leone, and as he spoke he led the Count towards a darker alley, lighted
up only by a few rays of the moon, which penetrated the interstices of the branches, "would
it not be best to conclude this conversation rather in the dark than in the light? Our words
need not any light, and neither you nor I pay any attention to the expression of our faces."

"So be it," said Maulear, and they entered the dark alley.

"Marquis," said Monte-Leone, "the divinity of my dream and the object of your passion are so
alike, that I am sure we worship the same idol, and kneel before the same altar. Fortune has
led two men of soul and honor into the same route. We both struggle for an object which one
only can reach. One of us must tread on a carcass, which must be either yours or mine."

"Count," said Maulear, "we understand each other. We adore the same idol, but you are not ignorant
that our rights to offer it homage are different; that I have rights which you have not."

The Count trembled. A word might crush all his hopes. For a few moments he hesitated, and then
in a calm voice said,

"Does she love you?"

Without replying to the question, the Marquis said,

"Signora Rovero, for her name is too deeply engraven on our hearts for it not to spring to
our lips, is aware of my sentiments, of which I have already told her."

"And has accepted them?" said Monte-Leone, in yet greater trouble.

"No," said the Marquis, honorably; "but bade me hope that some day she would."

"Then," said the Count, with joy, "nothing is lost. Marquis, the past is yours, but the future
is mine. Had I the mind and grace of a French nobleman, I would, perhaps, propose to you a
contest of courtesy, and might rely on my hope, my love, my attention, to triumph. But the
contest must be of a different kind; for I will expose myself to no risks." Lowering his voice,
he continued: "Not one and the other can present his love to the Signorina Rovero, but one
without the other. You or I alone; and, as I told you just now, there is a life too many."

"Very well, signor,--you wage your life against mine. I consent,--but must observe that this
duel should, at least, accrue to the interest of one or the other of us; and yet I do not think
that Signorina Rovero would touch a blood-stained hand."

"Signor," said Monte-Leone, "from the moment you accept my challenge, the mystery and secrecy
with which it must be shrouded shall be my affair; and, if you please, I will tell you of my
plans."

"Do so, signor," said Maulear, coldly.

"Let us leave this alley, and go towards that group of trees in that direction."

He led Maulear towards the sea. When they stood on the shore, he said, "Below there is a kind
of cove, and in it a gondola like those of Venice--a pleasure-skiff--built formerly by the
minister Rovero for his family. At this hour to-morrow, we will meet in this wood and go to
the boat-house. We will then put to sea, and with no witness but the sea and sky, we will settle
our affair. Two men will steer the bark to sea, and one wilt guide it back----"

In spite of his courage, Maulear could not but shudder at one who detailed with such coolness
so horrible a plan. The manner of death frequently enhances our terror, and he who in a forest
would bare his bosom to his adversary's ball, would shrink from it on the immensity of the ocean.

"But," said Maulear, "is all this romantic preparation, is this naval drama in which you insist
on appearing, necessary to our purpose? Any other secret encounter would have the same effect,
and would eventuate equally satisfactorily. At the distance of a few days' travel, would we
not be able to fight more safely than here?"

"No, Marquis, I must remain in this villa until Taddeo de Sorrento shall have returned. Neither
I nor you can leave it without arousing suspicions, and in two days hence, we would no longer
be equals; for honor compels me to say that Taddeo has promised me his sister's hand, and that
the influence he exerts over his mother will without doubt induce her to decide in my favor.
If, however, you prefer to run that risk, I will not oppose you."

"No no," said Maulear, who remembered what Taddeo had said to him in relation to his sister,
"I will fight for her I love at the very foot of the altar--"

"Signor," said Monte-Leone, "let us avoid all scandal. The death of him who falls may be easily
accounted for; and as you said, we must never suffer her we love to think that the happiness
of one of us has cost the other his life."

"So be it," said Maulear, "I accept your offer."

"To-morrow we will meet," said the Count.

The two enemies returned to the villa calm, and apparently undisturbed, as if they had been
the best friends possible. When they came into the room again, Aminta sat by her mother. The
eyes of the young girl, however, turning constantly towards the door, seemed to expect the
return of the two young men with anxiety. Her cheeks became slightly flushed when they entered.
The Count approached her and besought her to sing as he had often heard her. Aminta sat at
the piano. Scarcely, however, had she sung the first bar, than the door of the saloon opened
and Scorpione glided in and sat at the feet of the young girl, where he laid down as he used
to do; not, however, daring to look at her. Since the scandal he had caused, he had been in
disgrace with all the family, and his mistress did not speak to him. The Count, who had become
acquainted with Tonio during his first visit to Sorrento, could not repress a movement of horror
at the appearance of the wretch. Far, however, from being angry, Tonio seemed glad to see him,
and testified his pleasure by various affectionate signs. Gaetano, who was absent from the
room, just then returned, and at the request of Signora Rovero sang several duets with Aminta.
An extraordinary feeling seemed to influence the young man, and only with the greatest difficulty
could he get through his part. When the evening was over, all retired. The next day rolled
by in embarrassing constraint to all the inhabitants of the villa. An atmosphere of sadness
surrounded them, like the dark clouds which seem at the approach of a storm to overhang the
earth. Count Monte-Leone alone seemed master of himself, and sought to cure the general atony
in which even Maulear was involved. A sensible difference was remarked between the two men,
each of whom loved the same woman, while one of them must lose her forever. The Count did not
take his eyes from her, and seemed thus to lay in a provision of pleasure for eternity, which
seemed ready to open before him. Maulear, on the other hand, was sad and pensive, and scarcely
dared to lift his eyes to Aminta, fearing, beyond doubt, that he would thus increase his sorrow
and distress, and diminish his courage when the crisis came. As the day wore on. Aminta, feeling
unwell, retired to her room. Signora Rovero, accustomed to see her daughter have similar attacks,
sat to play reversis with Count Brignoli and two other persons. Monte-Leone and Maulear exchanged
a mysterious sign and left the room nearly at the same time. The night was not so beautiful
as the preceding one had been. The disk of the moon sometimes was clouded, and the wind whistled
among the trees of the park; all nature, deeply agitated, seemed to sympathize with the thoughts
which agitated the minds of the two enemies. The dark and cloudy sky was a meet back-ground
for such a picture.

Nine o'clock was struck by the bell of the Church at Sorrento, when two men met at the cove
we have described. One of them wrapped in a cloak had a case under his arm. They went towards
the bank and found the gondola there. This boat was long, like those of Venice, in imitation
of which it had been made--had a little cabin in its stern, which now was closed. In it the
ladies used to take refuge when bad weather interfered with their pleasure. The two men used
all their strength to detach the gondola from the shore. At last they succeeded. The most robust
then took one of the oars and pushed the boat from the bank. Just as they were about to put
off, a burst of demoniac laughter rung in their ears. A very demon, a breathing spirit of evil,
had witnessed all their preparations, and had learned, from its shape, the contents of the
box; the idea of what they meditated caused him to utter this shout of laughter. This demon
was Scorpione. This deformity was the rival of Monte-Leone and Maulear.

The blue and azure waves of the sea of Naples on that night seemed dark as ink. The wind agitated
them. Calm as they usually are, and like a vast cemetery, the tombs of which open to receive
the dead, they opened before the prow of the boat like a grave, as they were intended to be.
At a distance of about three hundred fathoms the two adversaries ceased to row and replaced
the oars in the gondola. Without speaking, they took out the pistols, examined their locks,
and opened them.

"Signor," said Monte-Leone, "I thank you for the honor you have done me in deigning to use
my arms."

"The arms of Count Monte-Leone are not to be refused."

"A true hand gives them."

"A true hand receives them."

Nothing more was said. They then proceeded to place themselves at the several ends of the boat.
The Count uncovered himself. Maulear did also. They let fall their cloaks and opened the linen
which covered their bosoms. They raised their pistols, took aim, and were about to fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door of the cabin was thrown open, and Aminta rushed to the centre of the gondola. Gaetano
followed her. The weapons fell from the hands of the rivals; and in terror and surprise they
looked on this apparition. Not a cry escaped from their lips. Pale and motionless, they looked
at each other without, at first, recognizing Aminta. Not a word passed their lips. Terror-stricken,
they fancied themselves in the presence of some heavenly being, sent, like the angel of peace,
to rescue them from death. The voice of Aminta, full of trouble and terror, echoed over the
waves, like that of an angel, and alone aroused them from the ecstatic state in which they
were plunged.

"Signori," said she, "I might sooner have put a stop to this atrocious duel, the very idea
of which terrifies me; had it not have been so near its completion, you would, perhaps, have
denied the intention to fight after all, within a few days. Thanks to the assistance of Gaetano,
my childhood's friend, who yesterday evening became acquainted with your intention, I have
by God's aid been able to prevent it. I wished my presence to be grave and solemn, that you
might never renew the attempt; in order that, as it were, in the presence of God and of death,
you might know my fixed determination. I would not be burdened with an existence which had
cost the life of a fellow-being: you, Signor Monte-Leone, by the revered manes of your father;
and you, Marquis de Maulear, by all you love, I conjure to swear that you will respect the
life of him I shall accept as my husband."

"Impose no such oath on me," said Monte-Leone.

"Let me die first," said Maulear.

"Not you only, but I will die also. If I do not hear you swear, I will throw myself into the sea."

She placed her foot on the gunwale of the boat.

"We swear," said the rivals, rushing towards her.

"Thanks, Signori, I will trust your oath. Count Monte-Leone," said she, "the Marquis de Maulear
saved my life; you will also learn, hereafter, how generously he resolved to save my honor
when it was compromised. My heart is de Maulear's, and I give him my hand."

The Marquis fell at Aminta's feet.

"To you," she continued, "Count Monte-Leone, I can offer only my respect and esteem."

"Signorina," said Monte-Leone, with a voice full of dignity and despair, "I accept even the
boon you offer me; and henceforth he whom you love is sacred to me."

By a violent effort over himself he extended his hand to Maulear. The waves had borne the bark
towards the shore, and all who had participated in this scene returned safely to the villa.
Signora Rovero, who did not know what had passed, on the next day received a letter from Monte-Leone,
who, during the night, had left the villa.

VI.--MARRIAGE.

Nothing can describe the intensity of Count Monte-Leone's grief when he was again in the carriage,
which, on the evening before, had borne him to happiness, and now took him back to Naples,
sad and despairing. The Count had overcome his own nature, and this was a great victory to
one who usually yielded to every prompting of passion. On this occasion he had restrained himself
and overcome his rage at his rival's triumph. He overcame his agony at the wreck of his hopes.
When he left Sorrento, and awoke, so to say, from the stupefaction into which he had plunged,
the excitable brain and fiery heart again re-opened.

"I was a fool," said he, "I was a fool when I yielded my happiness to another. I was yet more
mad when I swore to respect his life, when something far more violent than mine is wrested
from me. Has he not crushed and tortured my heart? I regret even my place of imprisonment,"
continued he. "There I had dreams of love; and had death reached me in that abyss, I should
have borne away hopes of the future which now are crushed for ever."

Two torrents of tears rolled down the cheeks of this iron-hearted man, over which they had
rarely flown before.

On the morning after Monte-Leone's return to his hotel, he might have been observed sitting
before the portrait of the victim of Carlo III., the holy martyr of conscience, as he called
his father, looking on his noble brow with the most tender respect. We have spoken of the almost
superstitious faith of the Count in the fact that his father protected him in all the events
of his life. We have heard him call on his father when about to be buried in the waves of the
sea, and then become resigned to death in the pious faith that his father waited for him. Whenever
danger menaced Monte-Leone; whenever he was unexpectedly prosperous, or was involved in misfortune;
whenever his life was lighted up with prosperity, or misfortune overwhelmed him, he always
looked to this parent. He thought his pure spirit hovered above him; and encouraged by this
celestial aid, he trusted to the mutations of fortune without fear or apprehension. When he
looked at this adored image, consolation seemed always to descend on his soul. Overcome by
the boundless love Aminta had inspired, he had forgotten the political duties to which he was
devoted. It seemed to him that this cause, to which he had consecrated his life, had wonderfully
diminished in importance since his trial.

"Can it be, oh my father, that you were unwilling for my love to interfere with the prospects
of the duties imposed on me by your death? Or, is it that in your pity you have feared that,
in my dangers, the angel to whom I have devoted my existence would be overwhelmed. If, oh my
father, it be thy will that I suffer these cruel torments; if I am to reserve my energy for
the cause I defend, be rejoiced at my sufferings, for I am able to bear them. Ere long I will
again see those who have trusted me with their fate, and the suspicions of whom offend and
wound me. They will know my resolutions, and I shall know whether I shall remain their leader
or tread my weary way alone."

Just then the door of his cabinet opened, and a man appeared, or rather a spectre, so much
had his appearance been changed by fatigue and suffering. He rushed into the arms of Monte-Leone.

"Taddeo," said he, "my God! what has happened? How pale you are! Why are these tears in your eyes."

"My friend, La Felina has deceived me only by a day. She was, however, mistaken herself. To-morrow,
said she, you will love me less. To-day I love her no more. You see I have done better than
she even hoped."

He fell, with his heart crushed, on a chair, and sobbed.

"Speak, speak to me," said Monte-Leone, forgetful of his friend's suffering in his own.

"As I wrote to you," said Taddeo, "I determined to follow her, and find out her retreat at
all events. Had it been necessary, I would have followed her to the end of the world. Leaving
the horse I had in a street near the theatre, I went to the door whence I supposed La Felina
would come. I had been there an hour when I saw a post-carriage approach. A few moments had
elapsed when a woman, accompanied by a servant, left the theatre, and after looking anxiously
around, to be sure that she was unobserved, entered the carriage. The valet got up behind,
and the postillion, who had not left the saddle, whipped up his horses and left in a gallop.
I mounted my horse and followed the carriage, keeping just two hundred yards behind it. The
carriage was driven towards Rome, and at every post-house the horses were changed, on which
occasions I kept out of sight, and then resumed my pursuit. Thus we travelled about fifteen
leagues; when, however, we reached the eighth post-house, the carriage spring became broken
and the body was thrown into a ditch. I rushed towards it, opened the door, and, in a fainting
condition, received the person it contained. I bore her to the road, and, to give her air,
threw aside her veil. I uttered a cry of rage and agony. The woman in my arms was not La Felina.
The sound of my voice aroused the stranger's attention, and she looked at me as if she were
afraid. 'Who are you?' said she, trembling. 'What do you wish?' 'To save La Felina, whom I
thought was here.' 'La Felina! You were in search of La Felina!' 'Certainly.' 'And you are
the horseman whom Giuseppe, the courier, told me at the last relay, followed us, are you?'
'Certainly I am.' The woman examined her arms, etc., to see that she was not hurt, looked at
me most ironically, and then bursting into laughter, said: 'Well, after all, the trick was
well played.' 'What trick?' 'The one La Felina has played on all her lovers, the most ardent
of whom you are.' I looked at the woman so earnestly, and sorrow seemed so deeply marked on
my countenance, that I saw an expression of pity steal over her face. 'Poor young man!' said
she, 'then you really loved her?' 'I did, and if I lose her I shall die.' 'Come,' said she,
'you will not die. If all who have told me the same thing died, Naples would be like the catacombs
of Rome. Come with me,' she continued, 'to the post-house, for now I feel by the pain I suffer
that my arm is out of place. There I will tell you all.' I went with the woman to the post-house,
when a few drops of cordial soon invigorated her. 'This is the explanation of what is a matter
of so much surprise to you. Perhaps I should be silent; but you seem to love La Felina so truly,
and a young man who really loves is so interesting that I will tell you all.' The circumlocution
of this woman almost ran me mad! She finally said: 'My mistress was afraid some of her lovers
would follow her, and wishing to conceal the route she had gone, took the idea of substituting
me for herself, and sent me to Rome, where she is to write me her destination. You followed
me instead of her. She was right, and had good reason to act as she did.' 'Then she has not
yet left,' asked I, thinking of a means to rejoin her. 'She was to leave Naples,' said the
woman, 'an hour after me, and is, no doubt, now far from the city.' 'And does she travel alone
on these dangerous roads?' said I. 'Oh, no, she travels with him.' 'With him! of whom, for
heaven's sake, do you speak?' 'Ah,' said the woman, 'La Felina would never forgive me if I
told you. He, too, might make me pay dearly for my indiscretion.' I begged, I besought the
woman to conceal nothing from me, and gave her all the money I had, promising to increase the
sum tenfold. She yielded at last, and told me that La Felina had left Naples with her lover.
Her lover! do you hear?" continued Taddeo, in a delirium of rage, "and her lover is the minister
of police, the Duke of Palma."

"More perfidious than the water!" said Monte-Leone, contemptuously. "Poor Taddeo!"

"Do not pity me," said the latter, in a paroxysm of terrible rage. "I was to be pitied when
I loved her, when a divinity dwelt in my soul, when my love was ecstatic and endowed her with
an innocence, which my reason told me she did not possess. I was fool enough to deceive myself.
Now this woman to be sure is but a woman; she is less than feminine, as the mistress of a rich
and powerful noble, the Duke of Palmo. Love might have killed me, but contempt has stifled love."

His head fell on his chest, and he wept. He wept as man weeps for a departed passion, which
has vivified his heart, but which yields to death, or worse still, another passion.

"My friend," said Monte-Leone, "your grief is cruel, but I suffer more intensely!" Monte-Leone
told Taddeo what had taken place at Sorrento.

The friends were again locked in the arms of each other, and mingled their tears--the one for
the loss of an earthly passion, and the other for a celestial affection, as Monte-Leone characterized
the two sentiments when he read a letter of Rovero's. Taddeo had appointed the following day
for his return to Sorrento, and faithful to his promise he left Naples for the villa of his
mother. The farewell of the two men was sad and touching, for a long time must elapse before
they met again. Monte-Leone had resolved to leave Naples for some time. The proximity of Sorrento
lacerated his heart, and to see her he loved the wife of another would to him be insupportable.
Taddeo was aware of the reasons why the Count had determined to travel, and had he no mother
he would also have been anxious to leave the country.

"Taddeo," said Monte-Leone to his friend, when the former was about to set out, "I have a favor
to ask of you on which I place an immense estimate, and for which I must be indebted to your
love. Here," said he, presenting the magnificent emerald wrought by Benvenuto Cellini, "take
this ring, and beg your sister to accept it. Tell her, as she offered me her friendship, I
have a right to send a testimonial to her of my devotion." Then with a voice trembling with
emotion, he added, "Say this ring preserved my life. This will not add to its value in her
eyes; but tell her in confidence the history of this ring, and some day," said he, with a bitter
smile, "it may be looked on as a curious relic."

"Not so, not so," said Taddeo, kissing the ring. "To us it cannot but be a precious treasure."

Perhaps while he acted thus, Taddeo thought not only of his friend, but of the woman who had
preserved him from death.

Taddeo left.

Fifteen days after his reaching home, all Sorrento put on its holiday attire. The church of
the town, splendidly decorated, the lighted torches, the people in their gala dresses, all
announced that some remarkable event was about to take place in the village. The bells rung
loud peals, and young girls dressed in white, with flowers in their hands, stood on the church
portico. Certainly a great event was about to take place. The White Rose of Sorrento was about
to be married to a French nobleman of high rank, Henri Marquis de Maulear.

About noon there was a rumor among the crowd in front of the church that the bridal party were
near. All hurried to meet them, and Aminta was seen leaning on her brother's arm, while the
Marquis escorted Signora Rovero.

The appearance of the beautiful young girl, whiter than her veil, paler than the flowers which
adorned her brow, produced a general sensation of admiration. Mingled with this, however, was
a kind of sadness, when the melancholy on her brow was observed. The Marquis seemed also to
be ill at ease, and to suffer under the influence of feelings which on such a day were strange
indeed. All care, all anxiety should be lost in the intoxication of love. Maulear had purchased
his happiness by an error, and this oppressed him. After the noble decision of Aminta, and
the preference she had so heroically expressed at the time of his purposed duel with Monte-Leone,
Maulear had not dared to mention the letter of his father. He had simply told Signora Rovero,
that he was master of his own actions, and sure of his father's consent and approbation to
the marriage he was about to contract. The Signora, who was credulous, was confident that a
brilliant match was secured for Aminta, and suffered herself to be easily persuaded. Maulear,
too, became daily more infatuated; and, listening to passion alone, had informed his father,
not that he was about to marry, but that when the letter reached him he would be married. Yet
when he had sent the letter, and the time was come, all his fears were aroused, and he shuddered
at the apprehension of the consequences of what he was about to do. In this state of mind he
went to the altar, and nothing but the beauty of his bride and the solemnity of the ceremony
could efface the sombre clouds which obscured his brow. The priest blessed the pair, and a
few minutes after the young Marquis of Maulear, with his beautiful Marquise, left the village.

Just when the venerable village priest, in God's name, placed Aminta's hand in Henri's, the
terrible cry we have already heard twice echoed through the arches of the church, and a man
was seen to rush towards the sea. The shout, though it filled the church, was uttered in the
portico, and had not interrupted the service. Thenceforth Scorpione was never seen at Sorrento.

[O] Anglice. Good day, my dear Pignana.

[P] The original of this sentence is Je vais vous donner la liste ... c'est a dire le compte
de NOS HOMMES ... non de NOS SOMMES, etc., etc. It is scarcely probably that MONTE-LEONE and
Pignana, speaking Italian, indulged in French jeux des môts.

THE ABBÉ DE VOISENON AND HIS TIMES.

From Frazer's Magazine

The province of Brie, in France, divided and subdivided since the Revolution of 1789, into
departments, arondissements, and cantons, is filled with châteaux, which, in the reign of Louis
XV., were inhabited by those gold-be-spangled marquises, those idle, godless abbés, and those
obese financiers, whom the secret memoirs of Grimm and Bachaumont, and the letters of the Marquis
de Lauraguais, have held up to such unsparing ridicule and contempt. This milky and cheese-producing
Brie, this inexhaustible Io, was, at the epoch of the regent Orleans and his deplorable successor,
a literal cavern of pleasures, in the most impure acceptation of the term; every château which
the Black Band has not demolished is, as it were, a half-volume of memoirs in which may be
read the entire history of the times. Here is the spot where formerly stood the château of
Samuel Bernard, the prodigal, it is true, of an anterior age, but worthy of the succeeding
one; there is the pavilion of Bourei, another financier, another Jupiter of all the Danaës
of the Théâtre Italien: on this side we see Vaux, the residence of that most princely of finance
ministers, whose suddenly acquired power and wealth, and as sudden downfall, may surely point
a moral for all ministers present and to come; on that side we have the château of Law, the
trigonometrical thief; and Brunoy, the residence of the greatest eccentric perhaps in the annals
of French history: in a word, wherever the foot is placed, there arises a sort of lamentation
of the eighteenth century--that celebrated century, whose limits we do not pretend to circumscribe
as the astronomers would, but whose beginning may be dated from the decline of the reign of
Louis XIV., its career closing with Barras, whose immodest château still displays at the present
day its restored foundations on the soil upon which Vaux, Brunoy, and Voisenon, shone so fatally.

It was in this last named little château that was born and educated the celebrated abbé, the
friend of Voltaire, of Madame Favart, and of the Duc de la Valliére; and here it was, also,
that in manhood its possessor would occasionally resort, though not the least in the world
a man who could appreciate rural enjoyments, for the purpose of reposing from the fatigues
of some of his epicurean pilgrimages to his friends at Paris or Montrouge, and which was his
final sojourn when age and infirmities rendered it imperatively necessary for him to breathe
the pure air of his native place, far away from the heating petits soupers of the capital,
and the various other dearly cherished scenes of his earlier years.

Claude Henri Fusée de Voisenon, Abbé of Jard, and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Prince-Bishop
of Spire, was born at Voisenon on the 8th of June, 1708. Biographers have, perhaps, laid too
much stress on the debility of constitution which he brought with him into the world, inherited,
they say, from his mother, an exceedingly delicate woman. Since the examples of longevity given
by Fontenelle and Voltaire, of whom the first lived to the use of a hundred, and the second
to upwards of four-score years, and yet both of whom came into the world with very doubtful
chances of existence, it is become a very hazardous task to determine, or even to foretell,
length of days by the state of health at birth. They add, that an unhealthy nurse, aggravating
the hereditary weakness of the child, infused with her milk into his blood the germs of that
asthma from which he suffered all his life, and of which he eventually died. These facts accepted--a
delicate mother, an unhealthy nurse, an asthma, and constant spittings of blood--it follows
that, even with these serious disadvantages to contend with, a man may live and even enjoy
life up to the age of sixty-eight. How many healthy men there are who would be content to attain
this age! And if the Abbé de Voisenon did not exceed the bounds of an age of very fair proportions,
we must bear in mind that, though even an invalid, he constantly trifled with his health with
the imprudence of a man of vigorous constitution; eating beyond measure, drinking freely, presiding
at all the petits soupers--petit only in name--of the capital, passing the nights in running
from salon to salon, and seldom retiring to rest before morning: a worthy pupil of that Hercules
of debauchery, Richelieu, his master and his executioner. Terrified at the delicate appearance
of his child, his father dared not send him to school, but had him brought up under his own
eye, with all the patience of an indulgent parent and the solicitude of a physician. Five years'
cares were sufficient to develop the intellectual capacities of a mind at once lively and clear,
and marvellously fitted by nature to receive and retain the lessons of preceptors. At eleven
years of age he addressed a rhyming epistle to Voltaire, who replied,--

"You love verses, and I predict that you will make charming ones. Come and see me, and be my
pupil."

If Voisenon justified the prediction, he scarcely surpassed the favorable sense which it incloses.
Verbose, incorrect, poor in form, pale and washy as diluted Indian ink, his verses occasionally
display witty touches, because every one was witty in the eighteenth century; but to class
them with the works of the poets of his day as poetry is impossible--they merit only being
considered in the light of lemonade made from Voltaire's well-squeezed lemons.

In many respects the prose of the eighteenth century, not being an art, but rather the resource
of unsuccessful poets, lent itself better than did the muse to the idle fantasies of the Abbé
de Voisenon. His facetiæ, his historiettes, his Oriental tales, reunited later (at least in
part) with the works of the Comte de Caylus, and with the libertine tales of Duclos and the
younger Crébillon, prove the facility with which he could imitate Voltaire, while his lucubrations
must be considered as far inferior to the short tales of the latter author. For the most part
too free, too indecent, in short, to show their faces beside some elaborately serious fragments
which form what are called his works, they figure in the work we have just named under the
title of Recueil de ces Messieurs; Aventures des Bals des Bois; Etrennes de la St. Jean; Les
Ecosseuses; les Oeufs de Pàques, &c. We know, by the memoirs of the time, that a society of
men of letters, formed by Mademoiselle Quinaut du Frêne, and composed of fourteen members chosen
by her, had proposed to itself the high and difficult mission of supping well at stated intervals,
and of being immensely witty and extravagantly gay. At the end of the half-year these effusions
of wit and gayety were printed by the society at the mutual expense of its members, and given
to the world under the title of Recueil de ces Messieurs.[Q] Deprived of the illusive accompaniments
of the lights, the sparkling eyes, the tinkling glasses, and the indulgent good-nature engendered
by an excellent dinner, good wines, and an ample dessert, these table libertinages, when read
nearly a century afterwards, lose all their piquancy of flavor and become simply nauseous.
The readings, and consequently the dinners, took place sometimes at the house of Mademoiselle
Quinaut, sometimes at that of the Comte de Caylus.

Having conceived a disgust for the profession of arms--for which he had been originally intended--in
consequence of having fought with and wounded a young officer in a duel, he determined upon
embracing the ecclesiastical state; and shortly after taking orders was inducted by Cardinal
Fleury to the royal abbey of Jard--an easy government, the seat of which was his own château
of Voisenon.

As soon as he was actually a dignitary of the Church, he turned his thoughts entirely to the
stage! In compliance with the request of Mademoiselle Quinaut, the new Abbé of Jard wrote a
series of dramatic pieces, among which may be cited, La Coquette fixée, Le Reveil de Thalie,
Les Mariages assortis, and Le Jeune Grecque, little drawing-room comedies, which have not kept
possession of the stage, and to which French literature knows not where to give a place at
the present day, so far are they from offering a single recommendable quality. The only style
of composition in which the Abbé de Voisenon might have, perhaps, distinguished himself, had
he been seconded by an intelligent musician, was the operatic. In this baladin talent of his
there was something of the freedom and sparkle of the Italian abbés; and yet the Abbé de Voisenon
enjoyed during his life-time a high degree of celebrity. Seeing the utter impossibility of
justifying this celebrity by his works, we must presume that it proceeded chiefly from his
amiable character, his pointed epigrammatical conversation, and in a great measure, also, from
his brilliant position in the world. And, after all, did celebrity require other causes at
a time when a man's success was established, not by the publicity of the press, but from the
words dropped from his lips in the "world," and from the occasional enunciation of a sparkling
bon mot quickly caught up and for a length of time repeated? Were we to protest against this
species of illustration, as the French call it, we should be in the wrong: each epoch has its
own; since then times are altered: now-a-days, in France, a man obtains celebrity through the
medium of the press, formerly it was by the salons. In general, the French littérateurs, especially
the journalists, may be said to write better now than they did then; but where, we should like
to know, is there now to be found a young writer of thirty capable of creating and sustaining
a conversation in a society consisting of upwards of a hundred distinguished persons? The lackeys
of M. de Boufflers were, in all probability, more in their place in a salon than would be the
most learned or witty writers of the present day.

If the Abbé de Voisenon was not exactly an eagle as regards common sense and intellectual attainments,
what are we to think of M. de Choiseul, who wished to appoint him minister of France at some
foreign court? The Abbé de Voisenon a minister! that man whom M. de Lauraguais called a handful
of fleas! But if he became not minister of France, it was decreed by fate that he should be
minister of somebody or other; he was too incapable to escape this honor. Some years after
the failure of this ridiculous project of M. de Choiseul, the Prince-bishop of Spire appointed
him his minister plenipotentiary at the Court of France. His admission into the bosom of the
French Academy was all that was now required to complete his happiness, and this honor was
shortly afterwards conferred upon him, for he was duly elected to the chair vacated by the
death of Crébillon.

At the age of fifty-two, with the intention of getting rid of his asthma, his constant companion
through life, he determined to try the effect of mineral waters upon his enfeebled constitution.
His journey from Paris to Cautarets, and his sojourn in this head-quarters of bitumen and sulphur,
as related by himself in his letters to his friends, may be considered as an historical portraiture
of the method of travelling, as pursued by the grandees of the time, as well as being the truest
pages of the idle, epicurean, pleasure-loving, yet infirm, existence of the narrator.

     "We passed through Tours yesterday (writes he to his friend
     Favart, in his first letter, dated from Chatelherault the 8th
     day of June, 1761), where Madame la Duchess de Choiseul
     received all the honors due to the gouvernante of the
     province: we entered by the Mall, which is planted with trees
     as beautiful as those of the Parisian Boulevards. Here we found
     a mayor, who came to harangue the duchess. It happened that M.
     Sainfrais, during the harangue, had posted himself directly
     behind the speaker, so that every now and then his horse, which
     kept constantly tossing its head, as horses will do, would give
     him a little tap on the back--a circumstance which cut his
     phrases in half in the most ludicrous manner possible; because
     at every blow the orator would turn round to see what was the
     matter, after which he would gravely resume his discourse,
     while I was ready to burst with laughter the whole time. Two
     leagues further on we had another rich scene; an ecclesiastic
     stopped the carriage, and commenced a pompous harangue
     addressed to M. Poisonnier, whom he kept calling mon Prince.
     M. Poisonnier replied, that he was more than a prince, and that
     in fact the lives of all princes depended upon him, for he was
     a physician. 'What!' exclaimed the priest, 'you are not M. le
     Prince de Talmont?' 'He has been dead these two years,' replied
     the Duchesse de Choiseul. 'But who, then, is in this carriage?'
     'It is Madame la Duchesse de Choiseul,' replied some one.
     Forthwith, not a whit disconcerted, he commenced another
     harangue, in which he lauded to the skies the excellent
     education she had bestowed on her son. 'But I have no son,
     monsieur,' replied the duchess quietly. 'Ah! you have no son; I
     am very sorry for that;' and so saying his reverence put his
     harangue in his pocket, and walked off.

     "Adieu, my worthy friend. We shall reach Bordeaux on Thursday.
     I intend to feed well when I get there."

What an edifying picture of the state of the high and low clergy of France at this epoch is
presented to us! The Abbé de Voisenon rolling along in his carriage, indulging in the anticipatory
delights of some good 'feeds' when he shall get to Bordeaux; and a hungry priest haranguing
right and left the first comers who may present themselves, in order to obtain the wherewithal
to procure a dinner.

It is to Madame Favart that Voisenon writes from Bordeaux:--

     "We arrived here at ten o'clock yesterday evening, and found
     Marshal de Richelieu, who had crossed the Garonne to meet the
     Duchesse de Choiseul. This city is beautiful viewed at a
     distance--all that appertains to the exterior is of the best;
     but what afflicts me most of all, is the sad fact that there
     are no sardines to be had on account of the war. I was not
     aware that the sardines had taken part against; however, I
     revenged myself upon two ortolans, which I devoured for supper,
     along with a paté of red partridges aux truffes, which,
     though made as long back as November last--as Marshal de
     Richelieu assured me--was as fresh and as parfumé as if it
     had been made but the night before."

If the reader should feel astonished that an asthmatical patient could eat partridges and truffles
without being horribly ill, his astonishment will not be of long continuance. The following
day Voisenon wrote to Favart:--

     "Oh, my dear friend, I have passed a frightful night. I was
     obliged to smoke and take my kermès. I shall not be able to
     see any of the 'lions' of the place. If I am three days
     following in this state after I get to Cauterets, you will have
     me back again with you by the end of the month."

One would suppose that after this gentle hint our abbé would be more prudent; not a bit of
it. In the same letter he adds:--

     "The dinner-table yesterday was covered with sardines. At the
     very first start I eat six in as many mouthfuls--a truly
     delicious morceau; despite my kermès, I reckon upon eating
     as many to-day, along with my two ortolans. We leave to-morrow,
     and on Wednesday we shall reach Cauterets."

Thus, ill on the 11th in consequence of a monstrous supper taken on the 10th, we find him,
for all that, on the following day devouring sardines by the half-dozen, and ortolans again!
On the 18th he writes from Cauterets to his friend Favart:--

     "I arrived yesterday in good health, but have slept badly,
     because the house in which I lodge is situated over a torrent,
     which makes a frightful noise. This country I can only compare
     to an icy horror, like the tragedy of Terée."

Twelve days afterwards, Voisenon writes to Madame Favart:--

     "Madame de Choiseul's uncle, who paid you so many compliments
     in the green-room, arrived yesterday: he lodges in the same
     house with me.... I introduced him this morning into one of the
     best houses in Cauterets--indeed the very best house--where, I
     must confess, I myself spend three parts of the entire day; in
     a word, it is the pastry-cook's. This learned individual
     compounds admirable tartlets, as well as some little cakes of
     singular lightness; but above all, certain delicious little
     puffs composed of cream and millet-flour, which he calls
     millassons. I stuff them all day long. This makes the waters
     turn sour on my stomach, and myself turn very yellow; but I am
     tolerably well notwithstanding."

This gormandizing Abbé de Voisenon, ever hanging, as it were, between pâtés and his grave,
becomes now a rather interesting subject of study. We begin to speculate upon what it is that
will finally carry him off: his asthma, or the confectionary he daily swallows.

He writes to Favart:--

     "I bathe every morning, and during this operation I bear a
     striking resemblance to a match dipped in sulphur. I keep my
     health, however, tolerably well, though still suffering from my
     asthma, of which I fear I shall never be cured."

It would be a wonder if he should be cured, with his unfortunate table excesses, which would
have killed half-a-dozen healthy men. In vain do we seek in his correspondence with Favart
and his wife, a single thought unconnected with the pleasures of the stomach. We have read
with what delight he sings the praises of a pastry-cook established at Cauterets, famous for
his millet-cakes and cream-puffs. His happiness did not stop here:--

"A second pastry-cook (he cries), upon my reputation, has set up here. There is a daily trial
of skill between the two artists; I eat and judge, and it is my stomach that pays the cost.
I go to the bath, and return to the oven. I shall come here again in the thrush season. We
have red partridges, which are brought here from all parts; they are delicious."

In short, he remained so long stuffing confectionary at Cauterets, where he had gone solely
to take care of himself, and to live with the strictest regularity, that on the eve of his
departure he wrote sadly to Madame Favart:--'I am just the same as when you saw me last: sometimes
asthmatical, and always gormandizing.' The sufferings which he experienced during his sojourn
at, Barèges, previous to his final return to Paris, are proofs of the deplorable effects of
the mineral waters upon his health:--

     "I am suffering dreadfully; and am now, while I write, laboring
     under so violent an attack of asthma, that I cannot doubt but
     that the air of this country is as bad for me as that of
     Montrouge. If I am as bad to-morrow, I shall return to pass the
     week at Cauterets, and on Saturday go on to Pau, where I shall
     wait for the ladies who are to pass through on Monday, on their
     way to Bayonne. I know I shall be in a miserable state during
     the journey."

Such were the benefits derived by the Abbé de Voisenon from his four months' sojourn at the
baths of Cauterets and Barèges. He returned to Voisenon infinitely worse than when he left
it. On the eve of his departure for home, where, as he said some time afterwards, he wished
to be on the same floor with the tombs of his ancestors, he devoured a monstrous dinner on
the Barèges mountains.

Finding that the mineral waters of the Pyrenees had failed in reëstablishing his health--that
is, if he ever had health--the Abbé de Voisenon abandoned physicians and their fruitless prescriptions,
to seek elsewhere remedies for the cure of his asthma, which became more and more troublesome
as he began to get into years. As he was constantly speaking of his disease to everybody, and
as everybody--at least all those who wished to get into his good graces--spoke of it to him,
he learned one day that there existed in some garret of Paris a certain abbé deeply learned
in all the mysteries of occult chemistry, an adept of the great Albert, the master of masters
in empirical art. Like all sorcerers, and all savants of the eighteenth century, this abbé
was represented as being in a state of frightful misery and destitution. He who possessed the
secrets of plants and minerals, of fire and light, of the generation of beings, had not the
wherewithal to procure himself a decent soutane, nor even a morsel of bread. Though, by the
efforts of his magic, he had reached a dizzy height on the paths of knowledge, it was, alas!
a fact but too true, that he was unable to maintain himself more than a month in the same apartment--perhaps
on account of his indifference to the interests of his landlords. For all that he was a marvellous
being, inventing specifics for the cure of all diseases, and consequently of asthma among the
rest. It was even whispered, but secretly and mysteriously, and with a sort of awe--for they
were very superstitious, though very atheistical, in the eighteenth century--that all these
specifics were comprised in one remedy, namely, the celebrated AURUM POTABILE, or fluid gold.
Now every one knows, or at least ought to know, that potable gold, that is, gold in a cold
and fluid state, like wine, triumphs over every malady to which the human frame is subject:
it is health itself, perpetual youth, and would be no less than immortality had not Paracelsus,
who, they say, also possessed the secret of potable gold, unfortunately died at the age of
thirty-three, or thirty-five: thus establishing a fatal argument against its virtues in this
respect. But one thought now possessed Voisenon--that of getting hold, somehow or other, of
this magic abbé, and of enticing him to his château; but an insensate and monstrous desire
was this--a desire almost impossible to be satisfied, for it was stated that this Prometheus
repelled all advances. Persecuted by the faculty, censured by the ecclesiastical tribunal,
maltreated by the police, who would not suffer anything in the shape of gold-making, he had,
in his savage misanthropy, renounced all further thoughts of alleviating the pains of humanity
at the cost of his repose and safety. Here was a terrible state of perplexity for our asthmatical
abbé, who, for all that, did not lose courage, but set to work with all his might to discover
the great physician.

But where, or how, was he to discover a sorcerer in Paris? To whom could he decently address
himself? To what professional class? There are so many people in the world ready to ridicule
even the most respectable things. Every time that Voisenon elbowed at the Tuileries, or in
the Palais Royal, an individual in a seedy cassock, he fancied that he had discovered his man.
Forthwith he would enter into conversation with him, his heart fluttering with hope, until
the moment came which would convince him that he had been deceived. Though for the moment cast
into despair, he did not lose hope, but would the next day recommence his voyages of discovery
in search of potable gold. One morning he had a sudden illumination:--"Since the archbishop,"
thought he, "has censured the conduct of the abbé I have been so long in search of, the archbishop
must know where he lodges." Just as if sorcerers had lodgings! That very day he repaired to
the archbishop's court. If the reader wonders why our abbé did not give the clerks whom he
interrogated the name of his mysterious priest, the answer is easy: it is simply because he
did not know his name; magicians seldom make themselves known but by their works. This name,
however, to his great and inexpressible joy, he was soon to learn. After some researches made
in the register of the episcopal court, the clerk informed him that this abbé (a deplorable
subject by all accounts) was called Boiviel, and, at the period when the acts of censure were
passed upon him, lodged in the Rue de Versailles, Faubourg Saint Marceau. Voisenon was there
almost as soon as the words were out of the clerk's mouth.

Voisenon knocked at every kennel of this deplorable street; not even a bark replied to the
name of the Abbé Boiviel. At length, at a seventh floor above the mud, an old woman, who resided
in a loft, to which access was obtained by means of a rope-ladder, informed him that the Abbé
Boiviel had quitted the apartment about six months before, with the avowed intention of going
to lodge at Menilmontant; she added, that this delay gave fair grounds for supposing that he
must necessarily have changed his quarters at least five or six times in the course of these
six months. Disappointed, but not discouraged, Voisenon descended from the dizzy height, reflecting
upon the sad distress to which a man might be reduced, although possessing the secret of potable
gold.

An almost incredible chance had so willed it, that the Abbé Boiviel had changed his abode but
three times since his descent from the garret of the Rue de Versailles. From Menilmontant he
had removed to Passy, and from Passy to La Chapelle, where he now resided.

At length the two abbés met; but to what delicate manoeuvres the seigneur of Voisenon was obliged
to have recourse in accosting his rugged comfrére, who was at that moment engaged in eating
his breakfast off a chair. He had sense enough to put off as long as possible the true subject
of his visit; besides, what cared he for delays? He had found him at last, he was face to face
with the mysterious, infallible physician, the successor of the great Albert. Boiviel was even
more savage and morose than the Abbé de Voisenon had anticipated. He spoke of offering his
services to the Missionary Society in order to get appointed to preach the Gospel in Japan,
although, to tell the truth, he did not believe over-much in Christianity. "And I do not believe
in Japan," might have perhaps replied the Abbé de Voisenon, had he been in a joking humor:
but the fact is, he was thunderstruck at the enunciation of such a project. It was too provoking,
when he, had at length found the Abbé Boiviel, to hear that the Abbé Boiviel was going to immolate
himself in Japan.

Inspired by circumstance, that tenth muse which is worth all the nine put together, Voisenon
said to Boiviel, that he was aware of all the persecutions which the clergy of Paris had made
him endure for causes which he did not desire to know; he refrained also from entering on the
subject of fluid gold. Touched by the exhibition of so much constancy in misfortune, he had
come, he said, to propose to the Abbé Boiviel to inhabit his château of Voisenon, where, in
the calm and repose of a peaceful existence, and with a mind freed from the harassing cares
of the world, he would have leisure to meditate and write; that this proceeding of his, though
strange in appearance, was excusable, and to be judged with an indulgent eye; he, the Abbé
de Voisenon, was happy, rich, powerful even. The Abbé Boiviel would be quite at home at the
château de Voisenon; his feelings of independence would not be outraged; when he should be
tired of sojourning there, he might quit the château, remain absent as long as it pleased him,
and return when it suited his fancy. It is hardly necessary to say that the wild boar allowed
itself to be muzzled; that very evening a hired carriage conducted the chemist, the sorcerer,
the magician Boiviel, to the Château de Voisenon. "I shall have my potable gold at last," thought
the triumphant Abbé, radiant with hope and exultation.

Installed at the château, the Abbé Boiviel conformed himself with a very good grace to the
monachal existence led by its inmates. The good regimen of the house tended also to considerably
soften the former asperities of his demeanor; he spoke no more of Japan, but neither did he
speak of the potable gold, although Voisenon on several occasions endeavored to obtain from
him an explanation on this essential point. Whenever our asthmatical abbé would lead the conversation
towards subjects relating to chemistry or alchemy, Boiviel would either avoid a direct reply
or else fall into a state of profound taciturnity: and yet all his debts had been paid, including
the various outstanding accounts due to his numerous landlords, and his dinners at the Croix
de Lorraine--that memorable tavern, where all the abbés who received fifteen sous for every
mass said at St. Sulpice were accustomed to feed daily. Several cassocks had also been purchased
for him, several pairs of stockings, and many shirts.

After a three months' residence at the château he had become fat, fresh, and rosy, such as
he had never before been at any previous epoch of his life. Emboldened by the friendship he
had shown to his guest, Voisenon ventured one day to say to the Abbé Boiviel, that, skeptical
and atheistical as they falsely imagined him to be in the world, he possessed, nevertheless,
an absolute faith in alchemy; he denied neither the philosopher's stone, nor the universal
panacea, nor even the potable gold. Now did he, or did he not, believe in potable gold? This
was a home-thrust Boiviel could no longer recoil; he did believe in it; but according to his
idea the audacious chemist committed a great sin in composing it: it was, so to speak, as though
attacking the decrees of creation to change into liquid what had been ordained a metal. A sorcerer
troubled with religious scruples appeared a strange spectacle to the Abbé de Voisenon and one,
too, that rather embarrassed him. He did not, however, entirely renounce his conquest of the
potable gold; he waited three months longer, and during these three months fresh favors were
lavished on Boiviel, who habituated himself to these proceedings with praiseworthy resignation.

Treated as a friend, called also by that title, Boiviel justified the Abbé de Voisenon in saying
to him one day, that he had no longer a hope in any remedy whatsoever, save the potable gold,
for the cure of his asthma. Without the specific, as much above other remedies as the sun is
above fire, the only course left him was to die. Boiviel was moved, his iron resolves were
shaken, and his qualms of conscience ceded to the voice of friendship. He warned his friend,
however, that in order to compose a little fluid gold much solid gold would be required. The
first essay would cost ten thousand livres at the very least. Voisenon, who would have given
twenty thousand to be cured, consented to the sacrifice, thanking heartily his future liberator,
who, on the following day, commenced the great work. What sage deliberation did he bring to
the task! and how slowly did the work proceed! Day followed day, month followed month, but
as yet no gold, except that which the Abbé de Voisenon himself contributed in pieces of twenty-four
livres each. The day at length arrived in which, the ten thousand livres being exhausted, Boiviel
informed his patient that the fluid gold was in flasks, and would be ready for use in a month.

It was during this month that the alchemist Boiviel took leave of the Abbé de Voisenon, on
the pretext of going to see his old father, who resided in Flanders. Before two months were
out he would return to the château, in order to observe the beneficial effects of the liquified
metal. Warmly embraced by his friend, overwhelmed with presents, solicited to return as speedily
as possible, Boiviel quitted the Château de Voisenon, where he had lived for nearly a year,
and in what manner we have seen.

After the time allowed by Boiviel for the fluid gold to be fit for use had elapsed, the Abbé
de Voisenon began his course of the medicine. He emptied the first, the second, and the third
flask, awaiting the result with exemplary patience; but an asthma is not to be cured in a week,
especially an asthma of forty years' standing.

Boiviel had not yet returned; he had now been four months in Flanders; to these four months
succeeded another four, but no Boiviel; the year revolved, the flasks diminished, but still
no Boiviel.

It is scarcely necessary to say that the Abbé Boiviel never reappeared, and that he was nothing
better than a charlatan and a thief. But the singular part of the matter is, that the Abbé
de Voisenon found his asthma considerably relieved after a course of the fluid gold composed
by Boiviel; and his sole regret at the end of his days was, not having foreseen the death,
or disappearance--a matter quite as disastrous--of his alchemist, who could have furnished
him with the means of compounding the elixir for himself as it might be wanted.

In order to show himself superior to the assaults of his enemy, our Abbé would often endeavor
to persuade himself that he was every whit as active as he had formerly been; more active even
than he had been in his youth. On these occasions he would jump up from his easy-chair, where
he had been sitting groaning under an attack of the asthma; he would cast his pillows on one
side, his night-cap on the other, would pitch his slippers to the other end of the room, and
call loudly for his domestics. In one of these deceitful triumphs of his will over his feeble
constitution, he rang one cold winter's morning for his valet de chambre.

"My thick cloth trousers!" cried he, "my thick cloth trousers!"

"Why, Monsieur l'Abbé," timidly objected his faithful servitor, "what can you be thinking of?
you were very bad yesterday evening."

"That's very probable; I have nothing to do with what I was yesterday evening. My thick cloth
trousers, I tell you--now, my furred waistcoat! Come, look sharp!"

"But, Monsieur l'Abbé, why quit your warm room, your snug arm-chair? You are so pale."

"Pale, am I! that's better than ever, for I have been as yellow as a quince all my life! Good,
I have my trousers and waistcoat; fetch me my redingote!"

"Your redingote! that you only put on when you are going out?"

"And it is precisely because I am going out that I ask for it. You argue to-day like a true
stage valet. Why should I not put on my redingote? Are you afraid of it becoming shabby? Do
you wish to steal it from me while it is new?"

"I am afraid that you will increase your cough if you don't keep the house to-day. It is very
cold this morning."

"Very cold, is it, eh? so much the better. I like cold weather."

"It snows even very much, Monsieur l'Abbé."

"In that case, my large Polish boots."

"Your large Polish boots! And for what purpose?"

"Not to write a poem in, probably; for if Boileau very sensibly remarked, that in order to
write a good poem time and taste were necessary, he did not add that boots were indispensable.
Once for all, I want my Polish boots to go out shooting in. Is not that plain enough, Monsieur
Mascarille?"

"Cough shooting, Monsieur l'Abbé?"

"Maraud! wolf-shooting--in the wood. Come, quick, my boots, and no chattering."

"Here are your boots, Monsieur l'Abbé. Truly you have no thought for your health."

"Have you a design upon my boots, also? Be so good, most discursive valet, as to fetch me my
deer-skin gloves, my hat, and gun."

The Abbé de Voisenon was soon equipped with the aid of his valet, who, during the operation
of dressing, never ceased repeating to him:

"It is fearfully cold this morning. Dogs have been found frozen to death in their kennels,
fish dead in the fish-ponds, cattle dead in the stables, birds dead on the trees, and even
wolves dead in the forest."

"My good friend," replied the Abbé de Voisenon, "you have said too much; your story of the
wolves prevents me believing the rest: upon this I start. Now listen to me. On my return from
shooting I expect to find my poultices ready, my asses-milk properly warmed, and my tisanes
mixed; give directions about all this in the kitchen."

"Yes, Monsieur l'Abbé. He'll never return, that's certain," murmured the valet, as he packed
up his master in his great-coat, and drew his fur cap well down over his ears.

Followed by three of his dogs, our abbé started on his shooting excursion. At the very first
step he took on leaving the court-yard, he fell; but he was up in an instant, and brushed speedily
along. It must have been a strange spectacle to see this old man, as black as a mute at a funeral,
with his black gloves, black boots, black coat, all black in short, tripping gayly along over
the snow with three dogs at his heels, sometimes whistling and shouting aloud, sometimes cracking
his pocket-whip, and occasionally pointing his fowling-piece in the direction of a flight of crows.

He had passed through the village of Voisenon, and had just gained the open country, when he
was stopped at the entrance of a lane of small cottages by a young girl, who, the instant she
perceived him, cried out,

"Ah, monseigneur" (for many people styled him monseigneur), "it is surely Providence that has
sent you to us!"

"What is the matter?" inquired the abbé.

"Our grandfather is dying, and he is unwilling to die without confession."

"But I have nothing to do with that, my child; that is the priest's business."

"But are you not a priest, monseigneur?"

"Almost," replied our abbé, rather taken aback by this home-thrust, and in a very bad humor
besides at the interruption, "almost; but address yourself in preference to the prior of the
convent. Run to the château, ring at the convent-gate; ring loudly, and reserve me for a better
occasion."

"Monseigneur," repeated the girl, "our grandfather has not time to wait; he is dying--you must
come."

"I tell you," replied the abbé, confused within himself at his refusal, "I cannot go. I am,
as you see, out shooting: the thing is utterly impossible."

With these words he sought to pursue his way; but the young girl, who could not comprehend
the bad arguments made use of by the abbé, clung obstinately to his coat skirts, and compelled
him to turn round. Aroused by the noise of this altercation, a few of the male population appeared
on the thresholds of their doors, others at their windows; and as a village resembles a bundle
of dry hay, which a spark will set in a blaze, the wives joined their husbands, the children
their mothers, and soon the entire population flocked into the street to see what was the matter.

The Abbé du Jard, seigneur of Voisenon, king of the country, felt deeply humiliated amid the
crowd which surrounded him, and which had already begun to murmur at this refusal, as irreligious
as it was inhuman.

But our poor abbé was not inhuman. The fact was, he had completely forgotten the formula used
on such occasions; and if the truth must be told, as he was careless and indifferent in religious
matters, rather than hypocritical, his conscience reproached him for going to absolve or condemn
a fellow-creature when he inwardly felt how utterly unworthy he was himself of judging others
at the tribunal of the confessional.

Necessity, however, prevailed over his just scruples; which scruples, however, be it said,
could not be made use of as excuses to his vassals: so, with downcast eyes and his reversed
fowling-piece under his arm, he permitted himself to be led to the cottage where lay the old
man, who was unwilling to render his last sigh without having made the official avowal of his sins.

The villagers knelt in a circle before the door, whilst the abbé seated himself by the side
of the dying man, in order the better to receive his confession.

Since the unlucky moment in which the Abbé de Voisenon had been balked of his morning's sport,
he had lost--for he had at times his intervals of superstitious terror--the proud determination
he had formed of not believing himself ill on that day. But then, what signs of evil augury
had greeted him! He had tripped and fallen on leaving home; he had seen flocks of crows; a
weeping girl had dragged him to the bedside of a terrified sinner--even now they were repeating
the prayers for the dying around him. The Abbé de Voisenon was overcome; his former temerity
oozed palpably away, he felt sick at heart, his ears tingled, his asthma groaned within his chest.

"I am ill," thought he. "I was in the wrong to come out; why did I not take my old servant's
advice, and remain at home?"

Finally he lent an ear to the old man's confession.

"You were born the same day as myself!" exclaimed the abbé, at the patient's first confidential
communication; "you were born the same day as myself!"

The old man continued, and here a new terror arose for our abbé.

"You have never heard mass to the end! And I," thought he, "have never heard even the beginning
for these last thirty years!"

The penitent continued:--

"I have committed, monseigneur, the great sin that you know."

"The great sin that I know! I know so many," thought the abbé. "What sin, my friend?"

"Yea, the great sin--although married--"

"Ah! I understand!" Then, sotto voce, "My great sin, although a priest."

A deplorable fatality, if it was a fatality, had so willed it that the vassal should have fallen
into the same snares as had his lord, who was now called to judge him at his last hour.

When the confession was ended, the Abbé de Voisenon consulted his own heart with inward terror,
and after some hesitation he remitted his penitent's sins, inwardly avowing to himself that
the dying man ought, at least, out of gratitude, to render him the same service.

The ceremony over, the abbé rose to depart: but his limbs failed him, and they were actually
obliged to carry him home, where he arrived in a state of prostration that seriously alarmed
his household. During the remainder of that day he spoke to no one; wrapped up in the silence
of his own melancholy thoughts, he opened his lips only to cough. The night was bad; icy shiverings
passed over his frame: the image of this man, of the same age, and burdened with the same sins
as he himself had committed, would not leave his memory. By daylight his trouble of mind and
body was at its height; he desired his valet to summon his physician and the prior of the convent.
"And immediately," added he, "immediately."

Comprehending better this time the wishes of his master, the domestic hastened to arouse the
prior, whose convent almost adjoined the château, and the physician, who had apartments in
the château itself. This physician was a young man, chosen by the celebrated Tronchin from
among his cleverest pupils at the express desire of the Abbé de Voisenon.

Seriously alarmed at the danger of the abbé, both prior and physician hastened to obey the
summons. M. de Voisenon was so ill last night. Should they arrive in time? So equal and so
prompt was their zeal that both reached the abbé's bedroom door together. But when they opened
it, what was their astonishment to find that the bird had flown; our abbé had got over his
little fright, and had gone out shooting again.

The end of that fatal eighteenth century was now approaching; undermined by years and debauchery,
it was now like a ruined spend-thrift moving away from the calendar of the world in rags; it
was hideously old, but its years inspired not respect. Old king, old ministers, old generals--if
indeed there were generals,--old courtiers, old mistresses, old poets, old musicians, old opera
dancers, broken down with ennui, pleasure, and idleness--toothless, faded, rouged, and wrinkled--were
descending slowly to the tomb. Louis XV. formed one of the funeral procession; he was taken
to St. Denis between two lines of cabarets filled with drunken revellers, madly rejoicing at
being rid of this plague, which another plague had carried off to the grave. Crébillon was
dead; the son of the great Racine, honored by the famous title of Member of the Academy of
Inscriptions and Belles Lettres, was taken off by a malignant fever, and obtained from the
grateful publicity of the day the following necrological eulogium, as brief as it was eloquent:
"M. Racine, last of the name, died yesterday of a malignant fever; as a man of letters he was
long dead, having become stupefied by wine and devotion." Twelve days afterwards Marivaux followed
Racine to the grave. The Abbé Prevost died of a tenth attack of apoplexy in the forest of Chantilly.
In the following spring the celebrated Madame de Pompadour descended, at the age of forty-four,
into the grave, after having exhaled a bon mot in guise of confession. Desirous, as it would
appear, of leaving this world like the rest of his worthy compères, the composer Rameau cried
furiously to his confessor, whose lugubrious note while intoning the service at his bedside
offended the delicacy of his ear, 'What the devil are you muttering there, Monsieur le Curé?
you are horribly out of tune!' And thereupon Master Rameau expired of a putrid fever. And what
think you, worthy reader, occupied the public the day following the death of the most celebrated
musician in Europe, the king of the French school? Why, nothing less than this wonderful piece
of news: "Mademoiselle Miré, of the Opera, more celebrated as a courtesan than as a danseuse,
has interred her lover; on his tomb are engraven these words:

    MI RE LA MI LA."

A touching funeral oration, truly, for poor Rameau! Panard, the father of the French vaudeville,
died some days after Rameau; and the Parisian public, with its national tenderness of heart,
merely remarked, that "the words could not be separated from the accompaniment."

You see, reader, how the ranks were thinning, how all these old candles were expiring in their
sockets, how the ball was approaching its end.

"Piron died yesterday," writes a journalist; and he adds, "They say he received the curé of
St. Roche very badly." What an admirable piece of buffoonery! these curés going in turn to
shrive the writers of the eighteenth century, and having flung at their heads epigrams composed
for the occasion, perhaps, ten years before.

Louis XV. died soon after Piron. A few hours before his death he said to Cardinal de la Roche-Aymon:
"Although the king is answerable to God alone for his conduct, you can say that he is sorry
for having caused any scandal to his subjects, and that from henceforth he desires to live
but for the support of faith and religion, and for the happiness of his people!"

Like Rameau, Piron, Helvetius, and Pompadour, this good little king Louis XV. must have his
bon mot; he was sorry for having caused any scandal to his subjects, and at his last moment
of existence would live from henceforth for the sole happiness of his people! "Can any thing
be finer than this?"

Finally came the Abbé de Voisenon's turn. Witty to his last hour, when they brought home the
leaden coffin, the exact form and dimensions of which he had himself arranged and ordered beforehand,
he said to one of his domestics,--

"There is a great-coat, any how, that you will not be tempted to steal from me."

He died on the 22d of November, 1775, aged sixty-eight.

FOOTNOTES:

[Q] This was the celebrated society called the Académie de ces Messieurs: it numbered among
its members all the more celebrated wits of the day.

IRELAND IN THE LAST AGE.

Recollections of Curran.

From the London Times

If the work of Mr. Charles Phillips were a description of the Roman bar in the time of Hadrian,
it would scarcely be more completely than at present the picture of a time and system entirely
passed away; yet he professes to give us--and performs his promise--a somewhat gossipping and
very amusing description of the Irish bar, and the great men belonging to it, very little more
than half a century since. But we travel and change quickly in these days of steam and railroads;
even Time himself appears now to have attached his travelling carriage to a locomotive, and
in the space of one man's life performs a journey that in staid and ancient days would have
occupied the years of many generations, and, as if in illustration of the fleeting nature of
men and things and systems at this time, here we find a contemporary (at this moment hardly
past the prime of life) giving us portraits, and relating anecdotes of men with whom he, in
his youth, lived in intimate and professional relations, but who seem now as absolutely to
belong to a bygone order of things, as if they had wrangled before the Dikasts of Athens, or
pleaded before the Prætor at Rome. Mr. Phillips seems to feel this, and, as the gay days of
his sanguine youth flit by his memory, the retrospect brings, as it will ever bring, melancholy,
and even sadness, with it. Yielding himself up to the dominion of feeling, in place of keeping
his reason predominant, he mourns over the past, as if, in comparison with the present, it
were greatly more worthy. Forgetting that there is a change also in himself; that the capacity
for enjoyment is largely diminished; that hope has been fulfilled, or is for ever frustrate;
he tests the present by his own emotions, instead of weighing with philosophic indifference
the relative merits of the system that he describes, and of that in which he lives. We are told--

    "'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view;"

but, when age comes upon us, we must turn and look back, if we desire to enjoy this pleasing
hallucination.

But in what is the present of Ireland so different from the past, in which our fathers lived?
And what do these repinings mean? What is the charm that has for ever faded? The answer to
this question, if complete, would occupy a volume, for the composition of which that of Mr.
Phillips might well serve in the character of une pièce historique, abounding, as it does,
in apt and instructive illustration, and giving, by its aggregation of anecdotes and descriptions,
a somewhat confused but still interesting and lively picture of a very curious and stirring
period. There lies, indeed, at the bottom of this inquiry a question with which the practical
statesman has now little reason to trouble himself, but which, nevertheless, to the speculative
philosopher, cannot fail to be a subject of never-failing interest.

The great physical discoveries of modern times, by which the powers of nature are made to act
in subservience to the use and comfort of mankind, steadily tend to one great political result,
viz., the permanently uniting and knitting together of much larger numbers of men into one
and the same community, and subjecting them to one and the same Government, and that Government
one of law and not of force, than was ever known or possible during the early days of man's
history. This result, as regards the peace of the world and all the material comforts of life,
is highly favorable. Whether the same can be said, of the mental vigor and moral excellence
of the human race is a question upon which men may speculate, but which time alone can satisfactorily
answer.

The small, contentious, and active communities of Greece; the little, ill-governed, yet vigorous
Republics of modern Italy, stand out in the history of mankind bright and illustrious beyond
all hope of comparison; and, from the wondrous intellects that appeared among them, they have
proved to all succeeding times a never-failing subject of admiration, envy, and despair. Just
in proportion to our own advancement in art, literature, and science, is the intensity of our
astonishment, of our envy, and of our despondency. We endeavor to compete with, but can never
equal them; we imitate, but, like all imitators, we are condemned to mediocrity; it is only
when we attempt to explore some new and untrod region of art or science that we can pretend
to the dignity even of comparison. And these regions are rare indeed.

But, if we compare our own social condition with that of the Greeks or the Italians--if we
look into their houses, their cities, and their fields,--if we acquire an accurate and vivid
conception of the insecurity of life, of property, and of peace among them,--and if we measure
the happiness of life by the comforts of every day existence, then, indeed, the superiority
belongs to ourselves; and we may be led to ask, whether the advantages of both conditions of
political and social existence may not be united; and to that end seek to learn what it was
that brought out into such vigorous relief the wonderful mental activity of the two periods,
which form such peculiar and hitherto unequalled epocha in the history of mankind. We shall
find, if we pursue this inquiry into other times and among other people, that there was one
circumstance, among many others indeed, of peculiar weight and importance, which then exercised
and has never failed to exercise, wheresoever it has existed, a vast influence upon the mental
and moral character of the people--we mean a feeling of intense nationality. This feeling is
not all that is required; without it no great originality or vigor in a people is probable,
and where it has been strongly manifest, it has generally led to great deeds, and much mental
activity. The character of this manifestation will, indeed, greatly depend upon the natural
character of the people--upon the peculiar state of their civilization, and upon their political
condition. If these be all favorable, the spirit of nationality is divine, and manifest in
great and ennobling deeds and thoughts; but, if adverse, then the spirit will be destructive,
and vice will be quickened into fatal activity.

In Ireland, at the end of the eighteenth century, a remarkable series of events cherished,
if it did not indeed produce, this sentiment of a separate nationality and independence. Conquerors
and conquered, in spite of social and religious distinctions, had long since coalesced into
one people; and the successful revolt of our American colonies, induced the people of Ireland
to demand for themselves freedom and independence also. With arms in their hands the Volunteers
wrung from England an independent Parliament in 1782; and in the eighteen years which followed,
all that is really great in the history of Ireland, is comprised. The Volunteers, indeed, obtained
independence, but that was all. The constitution of the Irish was, as before, narrow and mischievous,
oppressive and corrupt; but it was Irish, and independent of the Parliament of England. And
the struggles of an independent people, endeavoring, by their own efforts, to reform their
own institutions, led to the rising of that brilliant galaxy of statesmen, orators, wits, and
lawyers, to which Irishmen of the present day, almost without exception, refer with grief and
despondency, not unmixed with indignation, when wishing to make the world appreciate the evils
their country has suffered in consequence of its union with England. But, unhappily, the great
spirit of freedom was awakened in evil times. Great, vigorous, and almost glorious was this
wonderful manifestation of its power; but eventually the horrible corruption and vice of the
period bore all before it, and extinguished every chance of benefit from the acquisition of
independence. Great men appeared, but they were powerless. Of the remarkable period in which
they lived, however, every memorial is of interest. With the society of which they formed a
part, so different from our own--with the character and manners of the men themselves, their
history, their good sayings and wild deeds, every student of history wishes to become acquainted,
and seizes with avidity upon every piece of evidence from which authentic information respecting
them may be gathered--and, as a portion of this evidence, the work of Mr. Phillips deserves
consideration.

Among the most remarkable of the many distinguished characters of this stirring period was
John Philpot Curran,--among Irish advocates, as was Erskine among those of England, facile
princeps. With him, when on the bench as Master of the Rolls in Ireland, Mr. Phillips, himself
then a junior at the Irish bar, became acquainted. Acquaintance became intimacy, and intimacy
led to friendship, which lasted without interruption to the day of Curran's death. Admiration
and affection induced Mr. Phillips to gather together memorials of his deceased friend, round
whose portrait he has grouped sketches of many of his celebrated cotemporaries. He says in
his preface--

"My object has been, touching as lightly as possible on the politics of the time, to give merely
personal sketches of the characters as they appeared upon the scene to me. Many of them were
my acquaintances--some of them my intimates; and the aim throughout has been a verisimilitude
in the portraiture;--in short, to make the reader as familiar with the originals as I was myself."

And a more curious collection of likenesses was never crowded into one canvas. They all, indeed,
have a strong family resemblance, but certainly they are like nothing else in nature; and to
us, living in grave, and possibly dull and prosaic England--and in this our matter of fact
and decorous age--the doings of the society which they have made illustrious, appear more like
a mad saturnalia than the sober and commonplace procedure of rational men. The whole people--every
class, profession, and degree--seemed to consider life but a species of delirious dance, and
a wild and frantic excitement the one sole pleasure. Repose, thoughtfulness, and calm, they
must have considered a premature death. Every emotion was sought for in its extreme, and a
rapid variation from merriment to misery, from impassioned love to violent hate, was the ordinary
(if in such an existence any thing could be deemed ordinary)--the common and ordinary condition
of life. Laughter, that was ever on the brink of tears--a wild joy, that might in an instant
be followed by hopeless despondency--alternations from sanguine and eager hope to blank and
apparently crushing despair,--such was Irish life, in which every one appeared to be acting
a part, and striving to appear original by means of a strained and laborious affectation. Steady,
continued, and rational industry, was either unknown or despised; economy was looked upon as
meanness--thrift was called avarice--and the paying a just debt, except upon compulsion, was
deemed conduct wholly unworthy of a gentleman. Take the account Mr. Phillips himself gives.
He speaks of the Irish squire; but the Irish squire was the raw material out of which so-called
Irish gentlemen were made. "The Irish squire of half a century ago scorned not to be in debt;
it would be beneath his dignity to live within his income; and next to not incurring a debt,
the greatest degradation would have been voluntarily to pay one." And yet was there great pretension
to honor, but a man of honor of those days would in our time be considered a ruffian certainly,
and probably a blackleg or a swindler. "It was a favorite boast of his (the first Lord Norbury)
that he began life with fifty pounds, and a pair of hair-trigger pistols." "They served his
purpose well.... The luck of the hair-triggers triumphed, and Toler not only became Chief Justice,
but the founder of two peerages, and the testator of an enormous fortune. After his promotion,
the code of honor became, as it were, engrafted on that of the Common Pleas; the noble chief
not unfrequently announcing that he considered himself a judge only while he wore his robes."
The sort of law dispensed by this fire-eating judge might be easily conceived even without
the aid of such an anecdote as the following: "A nonsuit was never heard of in his time. Ill-natured
people said it was to draw suitors to his court." Toler's reason for it was that he was too
constitutional to interfere with a jury, Be that as it may, a nonsuit was a nonentity, 'I hope,
my Lord,' said counsel in a case actually commanding one, 'your Lordship will, for once, have
the courage to nonsuit? In a moment the hair-triggers were uppermost. 'Courage! I tell you
what, Mr. Wallace, there are two sorts of courage--courage to shoot, and courage to nonshoot--and
I have both; but nonshoot now I certainly will not; and argument is only a waste of time.'
"I remember well," says Mr. Phillips, when speaking of another judge, Mr. Justice Fletcher,
"at the Sligo summer assizes for 1812, being counsel in the case of 'The King v. Fenton,' for
the murder of Major Hillas in a duel, when old Judge Fletcher thus capped his summing up to
the jury: 'Gentlemen, it's my business to lay down the law to you, and I will. The law says,
the killing a man in a duel is murder, and I am bound to tell you it is murder; therefore,
in the discharge of my duty, I tell you so; but I tell you at the same time, a fairer duel
than this I never heard of in the whole coorse of my life.' It is scarcely necessary to add
that there was an immediate acquittal." By way of giving some idea of the character of society
then, the following enumeration is supplied by the memory of Mr. Phillips:--

     "Lord Clare, afterwards Lord Chancellor, fought Curran,
     afterwards Master of the Rolls. So much for equity; but common
     law also sustained its reputation. Clonmel, afterwards Chief
     Justice, fought two Lords and two Commoners,--to show his
     impartiality, no doubt. Medge, afterwards Baron, fought his own
     brother-in-law, and two others. Toler, afterwards Chief Justice
     of the Common Pleas, fought three persons, one of whom was
     Fitzgerald, even in Ireland the 'fire-eater,' par excellence.
     Patterson, also afterwards Chief Justice of the same court,
     fought three country gentlemen, one of them with guns, another
     with swords, and wounded them all! Corry, Chancellor of the
     Exchequer, fought Mr. Grattan. The Provost of Dublin
     University, a Privy Councillor, fought Mr. Doyle, a Master in
     Chancery, and several others. His brother, collector of
     Customs, fought Lord Mountmorris. Harry Deane Grady, counsel to
     the Revenue, fought several duels; and 'all hits,' adds
     Barrington, with unction. Curran fought four persons, one of
     whom was Egan, Chairman of Kilmainham; afterwards his friend,
     with Lord Buckinghamshire. A duel in these days was often a
     prelude to intimacy."

In spite, nevertheless, of this rude, nay, almost wild condition of society,--in spite of a
most fantastic affectation attending nearly every act and thought and word,--yet were Curran
and his cotemporaries men of great and vigorous ability. Grattan, Curran, and Flood, deserve
indeed to take rank among the foremost class of their own age,--among the men of genius of
every age and country. If we speak of them as orators, and wish to judge of their excellence
with relation to the great orators of our own country, we must bear in mind the character of
the society in which they lived, and of the assemblies they addressed. It would be unjust to
try them by the rules of our fastidious taste and undemonstrative manners. They addressed Irishmen,
and Irishmen just when most excited, and indulging in all the wild sallies of a dearly-prized
and lately acquired independence. What to us would appear offensive rant and disgusting affectation,
would, in the Irish House of Commons, have been but the usual manifestation of strong feeling,
and was absolutely required, if the speaker desired to move as well as convince his auditory.

If, however, we seek to know what was the virtue of these men, more especially that of Curran,
we must probe to the bottom the corruptions and baseness of that society, which deserves to
be branded as among the most base and the most corrupt that history has hitherto described.
The temptations which England employed, the horrible corruption and profligacy she fostered,
must be fully known, if we desire to do justice to the men who came out undefiled from that
filthy ordeal.

THE LOST LETTER.

From Chambers' Papers for the People.

I.

One night, between twenty and thirty years ago, a party were assembled in the drawing-rooms
of a house situated in one of the most spacious squares of the great metropolis. The brightly
lighted lamps lent an additional lustre to yet brighter eyes, and the sprightly tones of various
instruments accompanied the graceful evolutions of the dancers, as they threaded the mazes
of the country-dance, cotillon, or quadrille; for waltz, polka, and schottish, were then unknown
in our ball-rooms. Here and there sat a couple in a quiet corner, evidently enjoying the pleasures
of a flirtation, while one pair, more romantic or more serious than the others, had strayed
out upon the balcony, to indulge more unrestrainedly in the conversation, which, to judge by
their low and earnest tones, and abstracted air, seemed deeply interesting to both.

It was now long past the hour 'of night's black arch, the keystone,' and the early dawn of
a midsummer morning was already bestowing its first calm sweet smile on the smoke-begrimed
streets and world-worn thoroughfares of mighty London, as well as on the dewy hay-fields, shady
lanes, green hedgerows, and quiet country homes of rural England. The morning star, large,
mild, and lustrous, was declining in the clear sky; and on the left of the lovely planet lay
a soft purple cloud, tinged on the edge with the lucid amber of the dawning day. A light breeze
just stirred the leaves of the trees in the square garden, and fanned the warm cheeks of the
two spectators, as, suddenly silent, they stood feasting their eyes and hearts on the surpassingly
beautiful scene before them, and marvelling at the remarkable purity of the atmosphere, which,
in the foggy metropolis of Britain, seemed almost to realize the Venetian transparency of the
pictures of Canaletti. Perhaps it may be as well to take advantage of the pause to describe
the two lovers, for that they were lovers you have of course already guessed.

A handsomer pair, I am sure, you would never wish to see! The well-knit, well-proportioned
figure of the gentleman bespoke at once activity and ease, while the spirited, intelligent
expression of his countenance--dark-complexioned as that of an Andalusian--would have given
interest to far plainer features. The glance of his dark eye, as it rested fondly on his fair
companion, or was turned abroad on the world, told alternately of a loving heart and a proud
spirit. Philip Hayforth was one who would have scorned to commit an ignoble action, or to stain
his soul with the shadow of a falsehood for all the treasures and the blessings the earth has
to bestow; but he was quick to resent an injury, and slow to forget it, and not for all the
world would he have been the first to sue for a reconciliation. Like many other proud people,
however, he was open-hearted and generous, and ready to forgive when forgiveness was asked;
the reason of which might be, that a petition for pardon is, to the spirit of a proud man,
a sort of homage far more gratifying than the most skilful flattery, since it establishes at
once his own superiority. But to his Emily, Philip was all consideration and tenderness, and
she, poor girl, with the simple faith of youth and love, believed him to be perfection, and
admired even his pride. A very lovely girl was Emily Sherwood--gifted with a beauty of a rare
and intellectual cast. As she now stood leaning on the arm of her companion, her tall yet pliant
and graceful figure enveloped in the airy drapery of her white dress, with her eyes turned
in mute admiration towards the dawning day, it would have required but a slight stretch of
the imagination to have beheld in her a priestess of the sun, awaiting in reverent adoration
the appearance of her fire-god. Her complexion and features, too, would have helped to strengthen
the fantasy, for the one was singularly fair, pale, and transparent, and the other characterized
by delicacy, refinement, and a sort of earnest yet still enthusiasm. Her hair, of the softest
and palest brown, was arranged in simple yet massive plaits around her finely-shaped head,
and crowned with a wreath of 'starry jessamine.' From the absence of color, one might have
imagined that her beauty would have been cold and statue-like; but you had only to glance at
her soft, intellectual mouth, or to look into her large, clear, hazel eyes, which seemed to
have borrowed their sweet, thoughtful, chastened radiance from the star whose beams were now
fast paling in the brightening sky, to learn that Emily Sherwood could both think and love.

"Dear Philip," she said at last, in that low tone which is the natural expression of all the
finer and deeper emotions, "is it not beautiful? I feel at this moment as if I were almost
oppressed with happiness--as if this were but an intense dream of love and beauty, that must,
as sentimental people say, 'be too bright to last.' I never felt as I do now in all my life
before."

"Nor I neither, my Emily, my sweet little poetess; but I suppose it is because we love, for
love intensifies all the feelings."

"All the best feelings."

"The whole nature, I think. It is, for instance, more difficult to bear a slight from those
we love than from a comparatively indifferent person."

"A slight! but there can be no such thing as a slight between those who love perfectly--as
we do. Are we not all in all to each other? Is not our happiness indivisible?"

"It is my pride and joy to believe so, my sweet Emily. I know in my own heart that the needle
is not more true to the magnet than my thoughts and feelings are to you. It shall be the chief
care of my life to save you from all uneasiness; but, Emily, I expect the same devotion I give:
unkindness from you, of all the world, I could not and would not endure."

"Oh, Philip, Philip!" she said, half tenderly, half reproachfully, "why should you say this?
I do not doubt you, dear Philip, for I judge your love by my own."

He looked into the truthful and affectionate eyes which were raised so trustingly to his face,
and replied, in a voice tremulous with emotion, "Forgive me, Emily. I trust you entirely; but
I had started an idea, the barest contemplation of which was insupportable--maddening, because
of the very excess of my affection. In short, Emily, I know--that is, I suspect--your father
looked for a higher match for you than I am. Report says that his prejudices are strong in
favor of birth, and that he is very proud of his ancient blood; and the idea did cross me for
a moment, that when you were with him he might influence you to despise me."

"My father is proud; but, dear Philip, is nobody proud but he? And notwithstanding his prejudices,
as you call them, I can assure you, you are not more honorable yourself in every act and thought
than he is. He has consented to our marriage, and therefore you need not fear him, even if
you cannot trust me alone."

"Oh, Emily, pardon me! And so you think me proud. Well, perhaps I am; and it is better that
you should know it, as you will bear with it, I know, for my sake, my best, my truest Emily;
and I shall repay your goodness with the most fervent gratitude. Yes, I feel with you that
no cloud can ever come between us two."

Emily Sherwood was the eldest daughter of Colonel Sherwood, a cadet of one of the proudest
families in England; and which, though it had never been adorned with a title, looked down
with something like contempt on the abundant growth of mushroom nobility which had sprung up
around it, long after it had already obtained the dignity which, in the opinion of the Sherwoods,
generations alone could bestow. Colonel Sherwood inherited all the pride of his race--nay,
in him it had been increased by poverty; for poverty, except in minds of the highest class--that
rare class who estimate justly the true value of human life, and the true nature of human dignity--is
generally allied either with pride or meanness. Of course when I speak of poverty I mean comparative
poverty--I allude to those who are poorer than their station. In a retired part of one of the
eastern counties, Colonel Sherwood struggled upon his half-pay to support a wife and seven
children, and as far as possible to keep up the appearance he considered due to his birth and
rank in society. Emily had been for two seasons the belle of the country balls; and the admiration
her beauty and manners had everywhere excited, had created in the hearts of her parents a hope
that she was destined to form an alliance calculated to shed a lustre on the fading glory of
the Sherwoods. But, alas! as Burns sings--

    "The best laid schemes of mice and men
       Gang aft ajee."

During a visit to some relatives in London, Emily became acquainted with Philip Hayforth; and
his agreeable manners and person, his intelligent conversation and devotion to herself, had
quickly made an impression upon feelings which, though susceptible, were fastidious, and therefore
still untouched. Then, too, the romantic ardor with which his attachment was expressed, the
enthusiasm he manifested for whatever was great, good, or beautiful, aroused in Emily all the
latent poetry of her nature. Naturally imaginative, and full even of passionate tenderness,
but diffident and sensitive, she had hitherto, from an instinctive consciousness that they
would be misunderstood or disapproved, studiously concealed her deeper feelings. Hence had
been generated in her character a degree of thoughtfulness and reserve unusual in one of her
years. Now, however, that she beheld the ideas and aspirations she had so long deemed singular,
perhaps reprehensible, shadowed forth more powerfully and definitely by a mind more mature
and a spirit more daring than her own, her heart responded to its more vigorous counterpart;
and at the magic touch of sympathy, the long pent-up waters flowed freely. She loved, was beloved,
and asked no more of destiny. It was not, it may be supposed, without some reluctance that
Colonel Sherwood consented to the demolition of the aerial castles of which his beautiful Emily
had so long been the subject and the tenant, and made up his mind to see her the wife of a
man who, though of respectable parentage, could boast neither title nor pedigree, and was only
the junior partner in a mercantile firm. But then young Hayforth bore the most honorable character;
his prospects were said to be good, and his manners unexceptionable; and, above all, Emily
was evidently much attached to him; and remembering the days of his own early love, the father's
heart of the aristocratic old colonel was fairly melted, and he consented to receive the young
merchant as his son-in-law. The marriage, however, was not to take place till the spring of
the following year. Meanwhile the lovers agreed to solace the period of their separation by
long and frequent letters. Philip's last words to Emily, as he handed her into the postchaise
in which she was to commence her homeward journey, were, "Now write to me very often, my own
dearest Emily, for I shall never be happy but when hearing from you or writing to you; and
if you are long answering my letters, I shall be miserable, and perhaps jealous." She could
only answer by a mute sign, and the carriage drove away. Poor, agitated Emily, half happy,
half sad, leaned back in it, and indulged in that feminine luxury--a hearty fit of tears. As
for Philip, he took a few turns in the park, walking as if for a wager, and feeling sensible
of a sort of coldness and dreariness about every object which he had never remarked before.
Then he suddenly recollected that he must go to the counting-house, as he was "very busy."
He did not, however, make much progress with his business that day, as somehow or other he
fell into a reverie over every thing he attempted.

Nothing could exceed the regularity of the lovers' correspondence for the first two or three
months, while their letters were written on the largest orthodox sheets to be had from the
stationer's--post-office regulations in those days not admitting of the volumes of little notes
now so much in vogue. At last Emily bethought herself of working a purse for Philip, in acknowledgment
of a locket he had lately sent her from London. Generally speaking, Emily was not very fond
of work; but somehow or other no occupation, not even the perusal of a favorite poem or novel,
had ever afforded her half the pleasure that she derived from the manufacture of this purse.
Each stitch she netted, each bead she strung, was a new source of delight--for she was working
for Philip. Love is the true magic of life, effecting more strange metamorphoses than ever
did the spells of Archimago, or the arts of Armida--the moral alchemy which can transmute the
basest things into the most precious. It is true of all circumstances, as well as of personal
qualities, that

    "Things base and vile, holding no quantity,
    Love can transpose to form and dignity."

The purse was quickly finished, and dispatched to Philip, together with a letter. Emily was
in high spirits at the prospect of the answer. She danced about the house, singing snatches
of songs and ballads, and displaying an unusual amount of gayety; for, though generally cheerful,
she was of too thoughtful a disposition to be often merry. Philip, she was sure, would write
by return of post. How she wished the time were come! She knew pretty well, to be sure, what
he would say; but what did that signify? She longed to feast her eyes on the words his hand
had traced, and to fancy the tones and the looks which would have accompanied them had they
been spoken instead of written. The expected day came at last, but the post-bag contained no
letter for Emily. At first she could hardly believe it; her countenance fell, and for a few
minutes she seemed much disappointed; but never mind, the letter would come to-morrow, and
she soon began to trip about and to sing almost as gayly as before. But another day passed,
and another and another, and still no letter! Poor Emily's blithe voice was mute now, and her
light step rarely heard. Sometimes she tried to read, or to play on the piano, but without
much success; while her anxious looks, and the tear which occasionally might be seen to glisten
in her eye, betrayed the trouble within. A whole week elapsed, a longer period than had ever
passed before without a letter from Philip Hayforth--a fortnight--a month--and the poor girl's
appetite failed, her nights were sleepless, and her drooping figure and pining looks told of
that anxious suffering, that weary life-gnawing suspense, which is ten times more hard to bear
than any evil, however great, of which we can ascertain the nature and discern the limits.
Could Philip be ill? Could he--No, he could not be inconstant. Ought she to write to him again?
But to this question her parents answered "No. It would be unfeminine, unladylike, undignified.
If Mr. Hayforth were ill, he would doubtless write as soon as he was able; and if he were well,
his conduct was inexcusable, and on Emily's part rendered any advance impossible." Poor Emily
shrank from transgressing what her parents represented as the limits due to delicacy and decorum,
and she would have died rather than have been guilty of a real impropriety, or have appeared
unfeminine in the eyes of Philip Hayforth; and yet it did often suggest itself to her mind--rather,
however, in the shape of an undefined feeling than of a conscious thought--that the shortest,
best, most straight-forward way of proceeding, was to write at once to Mr. Hayforth, and ask
an explanation. She could not herself see clearly how this could be wrong; but she supposed
it must be so, and she acknowledged her own ignorance and inexperience. Emily was scarcely
twenty; just at the age when an inquiring and thoughtful mind can no longer rely with the unquestioning
faith of childhood on assertions sanctioned merely by authority, and when a diffident one is
too timid to venture to trust to its own suggestions. It is only after much experience, or
one of those bitter mistakes, which are the great lessons of life, that such a character learns
that self-reliance, exercised with deliberation and humility, is the only safeguard for individual
rectitude. Emily, therefore, did not write, but lived on in the silent, wasting agony of constant
expectation and perpetual disappointment. Her mother, in the hope of affording her some relief,
inquired in a letter she was writing to her relative in London, if the latter had lately seen
Mr. Hayforth. The answer was like a death-blow to poor Emily. Her mother's correspondent had
"met Mr. Hayforth walking with a lady. He had passed her with a very stiff bow, and seemed
inclined to avoid her. He had not called for a long time. She could not at all understand it."
Colonel Sherwood could now no longer contain his indignation. He forbade the mention of Philip
Hayforth's name, declaring that "his Emily was far too good and beautiful for the wife of a
low-born tradesman, and that he deserved the indignity now thrown upon his family for ever
having thought of degrading it by the permission of such a union. And his darling child would,
he knew, bear up with the spirit of the Sherwoods." Poor Emily had, it is to be feared, little
of the spirit of the Sherwoods, but she tried to bear up from perhaps as good a motive. But
it was a difficult task, for she was well-nigh broken-hearted. She now never mentioned Philip
Hayforth, and to all appearance her connection with him was as if it had never been; but, waking
or sleeping, he was ever present to her thoughts. Oh! was it indeed possible that she should
never, never see him again? No, it could not be; he would seek her, claim her yet, her heart
said; but reason whispered that it was madness to think so, and bade her at once make up her
mind to her inevitable fate. But this she could not do--not yet at all events. Month after
month of the long dreary winter dragged slowly on; her kind parents tried to dissipate her
melancholy by taking her to every amusement within reach, and she went, partly from indifference
as to what became of her, partly out of gratitude for their kindness. At last the days began
to lengthen, and the weather to brighten; but spring flowers and sunny skies brought no corresponding
bloom to the faded hopes and the joyless life of Emily Sherwood. The only hope she felt was
"the hope which keeps alive despair."

One May morning, as she was listlessly looking over in a newspaper the list of marriages, her
eye fell upon a well-known name--the name of one who at that very time ought to have knelt
at the altar with her. She uttered neither scream nor cry, but clasping her hands with one
upward look of mute despair, fell down in a dead faint. For many days she was very ill, and
sometimes quite delirious; but her mother tended her with the most assiduous affection, while
her comfort and recreation seemed her father's sole care. They were repaid at last by her recovery,
and from that time forth she was less miserable. In such a case as Emily's, there is not only
the shock to the affections, but the terrible wrench of all the faculties to be overcome, which
ensues on the divorce of the thoughts from those objects and that future to which they have
so long been wedded. There is not only the breaking heart to be healed, but the whole mental
current to be forcibly turned into a different channel from that which alone habit has made
easy or pleasant. "The worst," as it is called, is, however, easier to be endured than suspense;
and if Emily's spirits did not regain their former elasticity, she ere long became quite resigned,
and comparatively cheerful.

More than a year had elapsed since that bright spring morning on which she had beheld the irrefragable
proof of her lover's perfidy, when she received an offer of marriage from a gentleman, of good
family and large property. He had been struck by her beauty at a party where he had seen her;
and after a few meetings, made formal proposals to her father almost ere she was aware that
he admired her. Much averse to form a new engagement, she would at once have declined receiving
his addresses, had her parents not earnestly pressed the match as one in every respect highly
eligible. Overcome at last by their importunities, and having, as she thought, no object in
existence save to give pleasure to them, she yielded so far to their wishes as to consent to
receive Mr. Beauchamp as her future husband, on condition that he should be made acquainted
with the history of her previous engagement, and the present state of her feelings. She secretly
hoped that when he learned that she had no heart to give with her hand, he would withdraw his
suit. But she was mistaken. Mr. Beauchamp, it is true, knew that there was such a word as heart,
had a notion that it was a term much in vogue with novel-writers, and was sometimes mentioned
by parsons in their sermons; but that the heart could have any thing to do with the serious
affairs of life never once entered into his head to suppose. He therefore testified as much
satisfaction at Emily's answer, as if she had avowed for him the deepest affection. They were
shortly afterwards married, and the pensive bride accompanied her husband to her new home--Woodthorpe
Hall; an ancient, castellated edifice, situated in an extensive and finely-wooded park on an
estate in the East Riding of Yorkshire.

But I have too long neglected Philip Hayforth--too long permitted a cloud to rest upon his
honor and constancy. He was not, in truth, the heartless, light-minded wretch that I fear you
may think him. Pride, not falsehood or levity, was the blemish in his otherwise fine character;
but it was a very plague-spot, tainting his whole moral nature, and frequently neutralizing
the effect of his best qualities. He had been quite as much charmed with Emily's present and
Emily's letter, as she had ever ventured to hope, and had lost not a moment in writing to her
in return a long epistle full of the fervent love and gratitude with which his heart was overflowing.
He had also mentioned several affairs of mutual interest and of a pressing nature, but about
which he was unwilling to take any steps without the concurrence of "his own dearest and kindest
Emily." He therefore entreated her to write immediately; "to write by return of post, if she
loved him." But this letter never reached its destination: it was lost--a rare occurrence certainly,
but, as most of us are aware from our own experience, not unknown. And now began with Philip
Hayforth the same agony which Emily was enduring--nay, a greater agony; for there was not only
the same disappointed affection, the same heart-sickness, the same weary expectation, but there
was the stronger suffering of a more passionate and less disciplined temper; and, above all,
there was the incessant struggle between pride and love--the same fearful strife which, we
are told, once made war in Heaven.

Sometimes he thought that Emily might be ill; but then that did not seem likely, as her health
was generally good; and she was, when she had last written, perfectly well, and apparently
in excellent spirits. Should he write to her again? No, she owed him a letter, and if she loved
him, would doubtless answer it as soon as circumstances would permit; and he 'would let that
haughty old aristocrat, her father, see that Philip Hayforth, the merchant, had more of the
spirit of a man in him than to cringe to the proudest blood in England. And as for Emily, she
was his betrothed bride--the same as his wife; and if he was not more to her than any father
on earth, she was unworthy of the love he had given her. Let her only be true to him, and he
was ready to devote his life to her--to die for her.' As the time wore slowly away, he became
more and more exasperated, fevered, wretched. Sometimes it seemed to him that he could no longer
endure such torment; that life itself was a burthen too intolerable to be borne. But here pride
came to the aid of a better principle. His cheek tinged at the thought of being spoken of as
the slighted lover, and his blood boiled at the bare idea of Colonel Sherwood's contemptuous
pity for the vain plebeian who had dared to raise his thoughts to an alliance with his beautiful,
high-born daughter. He 'would show the world that he was no love-sick, despairing swain; and
Miss Sherwood's vanity should never be gratified by the display of the wounds her falsehood
had inflicted. He would very soon, he knew, forget the fair coquette who had trampled thus
upon his most sacred feelings.' So he tried to persuade himself, but his heart misgave him.
No: he could not forget her--it was in vain to attempt it; but the more his feelings acknowledged
her power, even the more the pride she had wounded in its tenderest point rose up in wrath
against her; and he chafed at his own powerlessness to testify towards her his scorn and contempt.
At such times as these he seemed even to himself on the verge of madness. But he had saner
moments--moments when his better nature triumphed, and pride resigned for a brief space her
stormy empire to the benigner sway of the contending passion.

In the midst of those terrific tornados, which in the West Indies and elsewhere carry in their
path, over immense districts, ruin and desolation, there is a pause, often of considerable
duration, caused, the scientific inform us, by the calm in the centre of the atmospheric vortex
of which they are composed. Such a calm would occasionally rest upon the mind of Philip Hayforth,
over the length and breadth of which the whirlwind of passion had lately been tearing. One
night, after one of those hidden transports, which the proud man would have died rather than
any mortal eye should have scanned, he threw himself upon his bed (for he rarely went to bed
now, in the accepted sense of the phrase) in a state approaching exhaustion, mental and bodily.
By degrees a sort of dream-like peace fell upon his spirit; the present vanished away, and
the past became, as it were, once more a living reality. He thought of Emily Sherwood as he
had first seen her--a vision of loveliness and grace. He thought of her as he had beheld her
almost the last time on that clear summer morning, and like refreshing dew on his scorched
and desolated heart fell the remembrance of her gentle words and loving looks. Could they have
deceived? Ah no! and his whole nature seemed suddenly softened. He seemed to see her before
him now, with her angel face and her floating white robes; he seemed even yet to be looking
into those soft, bright eyes, and to read there again, as he had read before, love unspeakable,
truth unchangeable. His heart was filled with a yearning tenderness, an intense and longing
fondness, and he extended his arms, as if to embrace that white-robed image of truth and gentleness:
but she was not there; it was but her spirit which had come to still his angry passions with
the calm of trust and love. And in the fond superstition that so it was, he sprang from his
couch, seized a pen, and wrote to her a passionate, incoherent epistle, telling her that she
had tried him almost beyond his strength, but that he loved and believed in her still, and
if she answered immediately, that he was ready to forgive her for all the pain she had caused
him. This letter finished, he threw himself upon his bed once again, and after a space, slept
more soundly than he had done for many a long night before. When he rose in the morning he
read over his letter, and felt, as he read, some faint misgivings; but these were put to flight
by the recollection of Emily, as she had appeared to him in the vision of the previous night.
As the post, however, did not go out till evening, he would keep the letter till then. Alas
for the delay! It changed for ever his own fate and that of Emily Sherwood. It chanced that
very afternoon that, taking up a provincial newspaper in a coffee-room into which he had strolled,
on his way to the post-office, the following paragraph met his eye:--'We understand that there
is a matrimonial alliance in contemplation between J---- R----, Esq., eldest son of Sir J----
R----, Bart., and the lovely and accomplished Miss Sherwood, daughter of Colonel Sherwood,
late of the --th dragoons, and granddaughter of the late R. Sherwood, Esq., of ---- Park.'
On reading this most unfounded rumor, Philip Hayforth waited not another moment, but rushed
home as if driven by the furies; and tearing his letter in a thousand pieces, threw it and
the purse, Emily's gift, into the fire, and vowed to bestow not another thought on the heartless
woman who had perjured her own faith and sold his true and fervent love for riches and title.
Oh how he scorned her! how he felt in his own true heart that all the wealth and grandeur of
the earth would have been powerless to tempt one thought of his from her!

To conceal all suspicion of his sufferings from the world, and, if possible, banish their remembrance
from his own mind, he now went even more than formerly into society; and when there, simulated
a gayety of manner that had hitherto distinguished his most vivacious moments. He had always
been a general favorite, and now his company was more sought after than ever. Among the young
persons of the opposite sex with whom his engagements most frequently brought him in contact,
was a young girl of the name of Fanny Hartley, pretty, gentle, excessively amiable, but without
much mind, and with no literary taste whatever. She had nothing to say, but she listened to
him, and he felt in her society a sort of repose, which was at present peculiarly grateful
to his angry, troubled spirit. Her very silence soothed him, while the absorbing nature of
his own feelings prevented him at first from thinking of hers. Philip Hayforth had certainly
not more than an average share of human vanity, but he did at last suspect, partly from an
accidental circumstance which had first drawn his attention to the subject, that he had created
in the heart of the innocent Fanny a deeper interest than he had ever intended. He was touched,
grateful, but at first grieved, for he "could never love again." But the charm of being loved
soon began to work: his heart was less desolate, his feelings were less bitter, when he thought
of Fanny Hartley, and began to ask himself if he were wise to reject the consolation which
Providence seemed to offer him in the affection of this amiable and artless young creature.
And when he thought of the pain she might perchance be suffering on his account, all hesitation
upon the subject was removed at once. If she loved him, as he believed, his conduct, it seemed
to his really kind heart, had already been barbarous. He ought not to delay another day. And
accordingly that very evening he offered his hand to Fanny Hartley, and was accepted with trembling
joy.

Their marriage proved a happy one. Fanny was as amiable as she had appeared, and in the conduct
of the commoner affairs of life, good-feeling with her supplied in a great measure any deficiency
of strong sense. Philip did perhaps occasionally heave a gentle sigh, and think for a moment
of Emily Sherwood, when he found how incapable his wife was of responding to a lofty or poetic
thought, or of appreciating the points of an argument, unless it were upon some such subject
as the merits of a new dress or the seasoning of a pudding. But he quickly checked the rising
discontent, for Fanny was so pure in heart, and so unselfish in disposition, that it was impossible
not to respect as well as to love her. In short, Philip Hayforth was a fortunate man, and what
is more surprising, knew himself to be so. And when, after twenty years of married life, he
saw his faithful, gentle Fanny laid in her grave, he felt bereaved indeed. It seemed to him
then, as perhaps, at such a time, it always does to a tender heart, that he had never done
her justice, never loved her as her surpassing goodness deserved. And yet a kinder husband
never lived than he had been; and Fanny had died blessing him, and thanking him, as she said,
"for twenty years of happiness." "How infinitely superior," he now daily and hourly thought,
"was her sweet temper and loving disposition to all the intellect and all the poetry that ever
were enshrined in the most beautiful form." And yet Philip Hayforth certainly was not sorry
that his eldest daughter--his pretty, lively Fanny--should have turned out not only amiable
and affectionate, but clever and witty. He was, in truth, very proud of Fanny. He loved all
his children most dearly; but Fanny was the apple of his eye--the very delight of his existence.
He had now almost forgotten Emily Sherwood; but when he did think of her, it was with indifference
rather than forgiveness. He had not heard of her since his marriage, having, some time previous
to that event, completely broken off the slight acquaintance he had formed with her relations;
while a short absence abroad, at the time of her union with Mr. Beauchamp, had prevented him
from seeing its announcement in the papers.

Meanwhile poor Emily's married life had not been so happy as that of her former lover. Mr.
Beauchamp was of a pompous, tyrannical disposition, and had a small, mean mind. He was constantly
worrying about trifles, perpetually taking offence with nothing, and would spend whole days
in discussing some trivial point of etiquette, in the breach of which, he conceived himself
aggrieved. A very miserable woman was his wife amid all the cold magnificence of her stately
home. Often, very often, in her hours of loneliness and depression, her thoughts would revert
to the brief, bright days of her early love, and her spirit would be rapt away by the recollection
of that scene on the balcony, when Philip Hayforth and she had stood with locked hands and
full hearts gazing at the sinking star and the sweetly breaking day, and loving, feeling, thinking,
as if they had but one mind between them, till the present seemed all a fevered dream, and
the past alone reality. She could not have been deceived then: then, at least, he had loved
her. Oh, had she not wronged him? had there not been a mistake--some incident unexplained?
He had warned her that his temper was proud and jealous, and she felt now that she ought to
have written and asked an explanation. She had thrown away her happiness, and deserved her
fate. Then she recollected that such thoughts in her, the wife of Mr. Beauchamp, were worse
than foolish--they were sinful; and the upbraidings of her conscience added to her misery.

But Emily had a strong mind, and a lofty sense of right; and in those solitary struggles was
first developed the depth and strength of her character. Partly to divert her thoughts from
subjects dangerous to her peace, and partly from the natural bent of her inclinations, she
sought assiduously to cultivate the powers of her mind, while her affections found ample scope
for their exercise in the love of her infant son, and in considerate care for her many dependants,
by all of whom she was loved and reverenced in no common degree. She learned thus the grand
lessons--'to suffer and be strong,' and to make the best of destiny; and she felt that if she
were a sadder woman, she was also a wiser one, and at any price wisdom, she knew, is a purchase
not to be despised.

Mrs. Beauchamp had been married little more than five years when her husband died. His will
showed, that however unhappy he had made her during his life, he had not been insensible to
her merit, for he left her the sole guardian of their only son, and, while she should remain
unmarried, the mistress of Woodthorpe Hall. In the childish affection and opening mind of her
little boy poor Emily at last found happiness--unspeakable happiness, although it was of course
qualified by the anxiety inseparable from parental love. She doted upon him; but her love was
of too wise and unselfish a nature to permit her to spoil him, while her maternal affection
furnished her with another motive for the cultivation of her own mind and the improvement of
her own character. She was fired with the noble ambition of being the mother of her child's
mind, as well as of that mind's mere perishable shrine.

II.

Twenty-five years have passed away, with all their changes--their many changes; and now,

    'Gone are the heads of silvery hair,
    And the young that were have a brow of care:'

And the babe of twenty-five years ago is now a man, ready to rush into the thickest and the
hottest of the great battle of life.

It was Christmas time; the trees were bare on Woodthorpe Chase; the lawns were whitened by
a recent shower of snow, and crisped by a sharp frost; the stars were coming out in the cold
cloudless sky; and two enormous fires, high piled with Christmas logs, blazed, crackled, and
roared in the huge oaken chimneys of the great oak hall. Mrs. Beauchamp and her son sat together
in the drawing-room, in momentary expectation of the arrival of their Christmas guests--a party
of cousins, who lived at about ten miles' distance from Woodthorpe Hall. Edmund Beauchamp was
now a very promising young man, having hitherto fulfilled the hopes and answered the cares
of his fond and anxious mother. He had already reaped laurels at school and college, and his
enlightened and liberal views, and generous, enthusiastic mind, gave earnest of a career alike
honourable and useful. In person and features, though both were agreeable, he did not much
resemble his mother; but he had the same large, soft, thoughtful eyes, the same outward tranquillity
of demeanour hiding the same earnest spirit. At present he was silent, and seemed meditative.
Mrs. Beauchamp gazed at him long and fondly, and as she gazed, her mother's heart swelled with
love and pride, and her eyes glistened with heartfelt joy. At last she remarked, "I hope the
Sharpes's new governess is as nice a person as the old one."

"Oh, much nicer!" cried Edmund suddenly, and as if awakening from a reverie.

"Indeed! I used to think Miss Smith a very nice person."

"Oh, so she was--very good-natured and obliging; but Miss Dalton is altogether a different
sort of person."

"I wonder you never told me you found her so agreeable."

"I--Oh, I did not----That is, you never asked me."

"Is she young?"

"Yes--not much above twenty I should think."

"Is she pretty?"

"I--I don't exactly know," he said, hesitating and colouring; "I suppose--most persons----I
should think she is." "How foolish I am!" thought Edmund. "What will my mother think of all
this?" He then continued in a more composed manner--"She is a very excellent girl at least.
She is the daughter of a London merchant--a remarkably honourable man--who has been ruined
by these bad times; and though brought up in luxury, and with the expectation of large fortune,
she has conformed to her circumstances in the most cheerful manner, and supports, it seems,
with the fruits of her talents and industry, two little sisters at school. The Sharpes are
all so fond of her, and she is the greatest favorite imaginable with the children." Edmund
spoke with unwonted warmth. His mother looked at him half-sympathisingly, half-anxiously. She
seemed about to speak, when the sound of carriage wheels, and the loud knock of a footman at
the hall-door, announced the arrival of the Sharpes, and Mrs. Beauchamp and her son hastened
into the hall to welcome their guests. Mrs. Beauchamp's eye sought for the stranger, partly
because she was a stranger, and partly from the interest in her her son's conversation had
created. But Miss Dalton was the last to enter.

Edmund had not erred in saying she was a pretty girl. Even beneath the cumbrous load of cloaks
and furs in which she was now enveloped, you could detect the exquisite proportions of her
petite figure, and the sprightly grace of her carriage; while a pretty winter bonnet set off
to advantage a face remarkable for the intelligence and vivacity of its expression. Her features,
though not regular, were small, while the brilliancy of her colour, though her complexion was
that of a brunette, lent a yet brighter glow to her sparkling dark eyes, and contrasted well
with the glossy black ringlets which shaded her animated countenance. At this moment, however,
her little head was carried somewhat haughtily, and there was a sort of something not unlike
bashfulness or awkwardness in her manner which seemed hardly natural to it. The truth was,
Miss Dalton had come very unwillingly to share in the festivities of Woodthorpe Hall. She was
not acquainted with Mrs. Beauchamp, and report said she was a very dignified lady, which Fanny
Dalton interpreted to mean a very proud one; and from her change of circumstances, rendered
unduly sensitive, she dreaded in her hostess the haughty neglect or still haughtier condescension
by which vulgar and shallow minds mark out their sense of another's social inferiority. And
therefore it was that she held her head so high, and exhibited the constraint of manner to
which I have alluded. But all her pride and shyness quickly melted before the benign presence
and true heart-politeness of Mrs. Beauchamp. Dignified the latter certainly was; but her dignity
was tempered with the utmost benevolence of expression, and the most winning sweetness of manner;
and when she took the hand of her little stranger-guest between both of hers, and holding it
kindly, said, "You are the only stranger here, Miss Dalton; but for my sake you must try to
feel at home," an affection for Mrs. Beauchamp entered into the heart of the young girl, which
has continued ever since steadily to increase. That she should conceive such an affection was
not unnatural, for there was something in the appearance and manners of Mrs. Beauchamp, combined
with her position in life, calculated to strike the imagination and touch the feelings of a
warm-hearted and romantic girl such as Fanny Dalton, more especially one circumstanced as she
was. Even her previous prejudice, with the reaction natural to a generous mind, was likely
to heighten her subsequent admiration. But it is not so easy to account for the sudden interest
the pretty governess created at first sight in the heart of her hostess. Many girls as pretty
and as intelligent looking as Miss Dalton she had seen before, without their having inspired
a spark of the tenderness she felt towards this unknown stranger. She could not comprehend
it herself. She was not prone "to take fancies," as the phrase is; and yet, whatever might
be the case, certain it was that there was a nameless something about this girl, which seemed
to touch one of the deepest chords of her nature, and to cause her heart to yearn towards her
with something like a mother's love. She felt that if Miss Dalton were all that she had heard,
and that if she should really prove her son's choice, he should not be gainsaid by her.

The Christmas party at Woodthorpe Hall was generally a merry one; and this year it was even
merrier than usual. Fanny Dalton was the life of the party; her disposition was naturally a
lively one, and this hour of sunshine in her clouded day called forth all its vivacity. But
Fanny was not only clever, lively, and amiable; her conduct and manners occasionally displayed
traits of spirit--nay, of pride; the latter, however, of a generous rather than an egotistical
description. Nothing was so certain to call it forth as any tale of meanness or oppression.
One morning Miss Sharpe had been relating an anecdote of a gentleman in the neighborhood who
had jilted (odious word!) an amiable and highly estimable young lady, to whom he had long been
engaged, in order to marry a wealthy and titled widow. There were many aggravating circumstances
attending the whole affair, which had contributed to excite still more against the offender
the indignation of all right-thinking persons. The unfortunate young lady was reported to be
dying of a broken heart.

Fanny, who had been all along listening to the narration with an eager and interested countenance,
now exclaimed--"Dying of a broken heart! Poor thing! But if I were she, I would not break my
heart--I would scorn him as something far beneath me, poor and unimportant as I am. No, I might
break my heart for the loss of a true lover, but never for the loss of a false one!" As Fanny's
eyes shone, and her lip curled with a lofty contempt, as her naturally clear, merry tones grew
deeper and stronger with the indignation she expressed, a mist seemed suddenly to be cleared
away from the eyes of Mrs. Beauchamp, and in that slight young girl she beheld the breathing
image of one whom she had once intimately known and dearly loved--in those indignant accents
she seemed to recognize the tones of a voice long since heard, but the echoes of which yet
lingered in her heart. Why she had so loved Fanny Dalton was no mystery now--she saw in her
but the gentler type of him whom she had once believed the master of her destiny--even of Philip
Hayforth, long unheard of, but never forgotten. But what connection could there be between
Philip Hayforth and Fanny Dalton? and whence this strange resemblance, which lay not so much
in form or in feature, as in that nameless, intangible similarity of expression, gesture, manner,
and voice, so frequently exhibited by members of the same family.

As soon as Mrs. Beauchamp could quit the table, she withdrew to her own room, where she remained
for some time in deep meditation, the result of which was a determination to fathom the mystery,
if mystery there was. It was just possible, too, that the attempt might assist her to find
a key to the riddle of her own destiny.

Accordingly, on the afternoon of the same day, she took an opportunity of being alone with
Miss Dalton and her son, to say to the former--"I think you told me, my dear, that your father
was alive?"

"Oh yes, thank God, he is alive! How I wish you knew him, Mrs. Beauchamp! I think you would
like him, and I am sure he would like and admire you."

"Does your father at all resemble you in appearance?"

"I am not sure. I have been told that I was like him, and I always consider it a great compliment;
for papa is still a very handsome man, and was of course even handsomer when he was young,
and before his hair became grey. I have a miniature likeness of him, taken before his marriage,
which I have with me, and will show you, if you will so far indulge my vanity."

Mrs. Beauchamp having replied that she should like exceedingly to see it, Fanny tripped away,
and returned in a few minutes, carrying in her hand a handsome, but old-fashioned, morocco
case. Mrs. Beauchamp had never seen it before, but she well remembered having given directions
for the making of a case of that very size, shape, and color, for a miniature which was to
have been painted for her. Her heart began to beat. She seemed upon the brink of a discovery.
Fanny now opened the case, and placing it before Mrs. Beauchamp, exclaimed, "Now, isn't he
a handsome man?" But Mrs. Beauchamp could not answer. One glance had been sufficient. A cold
mist gathered before her eyes, and she was obliged to lean for support, upon the back of a chair.

"Dear Mrs. Beauchamp, are you ill?"

"My dear mother!" cried Edmund.

"It is nothing," she answered, quickly recovering herself; "only a little faintness." And then
with the self-command which long habit had made easy, she sat down and continued with her usual
calm sweetness--"I could almost fancy I had seen your father; but I do not remember ever knowing
any one of the name of Dalton but yourself."

"Oh, but perhaps you might have seen him before he changed his name; and yet it seems hardly
likely. His name used to be Hayforth; but by the will of his former partner, who, dying without
near relations, left papa all his money, he took the name of Dalton. The money is all gone
now, to be sure," she continued with the faintest possible sigh; "but we all loved the dear
old man, and so we still keep his name."

Fanny had seated herself beside Mrs. Beauchamp, and as she finished speaking, the latter, obeying
the impulse of her heart, drew her towards her and kissed her. Fanny, whose feelings were not
only easily touched, and very strong, but even unusually demonstrative, threw her arms round
Mrs. Beauchamp, and cried, with tears in her eyes, "How kind you are to me, Mrs. Beauchamp!
You could hardly be kinder, if you were my mother."

"Dear Fanny," she answered in a low and affectionate tone, "I wish, indeed, I were your mother!"

As she spoke, Edmund, who had been standing in a window apart, made a sudden movement towards
the two ladies, but as suddenly checked himself. At this moment his eyes encountered those
of his mother, and colouring violently, he abruptly quitted the room. This little scene passed
quite unnoticed by Fanny, who at the instant was thinking only of Mrs. Beauchamp, and of her
own gentle mother, now beneath the sod.

The daughter of Philip Hayforth became a frequent guest at Woodthorpe Hall, spending most of
her Sundays with Mrs. Beauchamp, who would frequently drive over to the Sharpes's for her of
a Saturday afternoon, and send her back on the Monday morning. She was invited to spend the
Easter holidays at the Hall--a most welcome invitation, as she was not to return home till
the midsummer vacation. A most agreeable time were these Easter holidays! Never had Fanny seemed
more bright and joyous. Her presence operated as perpetual sunshine on the more pensive natures
of the mother and son. It was therefore a great surprise to Mrs. Beauchamp when, one day at
luncheon, about a week before the time fixed for the termination of her visit, Fanny announced
her intention of leaving Woodthorpe that afternoon, if her friend could spare her the carriage.

"I can certainly spare it, Fanny; but I should like to know the reason of this sudden determination?"

"You must excuse my telling you, Mrs. Beauchamp; but I hope you will believe me when I say
that it is from a sense of duty." As she spoke, she raised her head with a proud look, her
eyes flashed, and she spoke in the haughty tone which always brought before Mrs. Beauchamp
the image of her early lover; for it was in her proud moments that Fanny most resembled her father.

"Far be it from me, Fanny," she replied, with her wonted sweetness and benignity, "to ask any
one to tamper with duty; but, my child, our faults, our pride frequently mislead us. You shall
go to-night, if you please; but I wish, for my sake, you could stay at least till to-morrow
morning. I have not offended you, Fanny?"

"Oh, dearest Mrs. Beauchamp!" and the poor girl burst into tears. "I wish--I wish I could only
show you how I love you--how grateful I am for all your goodness; but you will never, never know."

Mrs. Beauchamp looked anxiously at her, and began, "Fanny"----But suddenly stopped, as if she
knew not how to proceed. Immediately afterwards the young girl left the room, silently and
passionately kissing Mrs. Beauchamp's hand as she passed her on her way to the door.

A few hours later in the day, as Mrs. Beauchamp sat reading in her boudoir, according to her
custom at that particular hour, Edmund abruptly entered the little room in a state of agitation
quite foreign to his ordinary disposition and habits.

"Mother!" he cried.

"My love! what is the matter?"

"Mother! I love Fanny Dalton--I love her with all my soul. I think her not only the loveliest
and most charming of women, but the best and truest! I feel that she might make my life not
only happier, but better. Oh, mother! is not love as real a thing as either wealth or station?
Is it not as sufficient for all noble works? Is it not in some shape the only motive for all
real improvement? It seems to me that such is the lesson I have been learning from you all
my life long."

"And in that you have learned it I am deeply grateful, and far more than repaid for all my
care and anxiety on your account; and now thank you for your confidence, my dear Edmund, though
I think you might have bestowed it after a calmer fashion. It would have been better, I think,
to have said all those violent things to Fanny than to me."

"I have said more than all these to Fanny, and--she has rejected me!"

"Rejected you! my dearest Edmund! I am grieved indeed; but I do not see how I can help you."

"And yet I should not be quite hopeless if you would plead my cause. Miss Dalton says that
you have loaded her with kindness which she can never repay; that she values your affection
beyond all expression; and that she is determined not to prove herself unworthy of it by being
the means of disappointing the expectations you may have formed for your son, for whom, she
says, she is no match either in wealth or station. She would not listen to me when I attempted
to speak to her but this instant in the Laurel Walk, but actually ran away, positively commanding
me not to follow; and yet, I do think, if she had decidedly disliked me, she would have given
me to understand so at once, without mentioning you. Mother! what do you--what do you think?"

"You shall hear presently, Edmund; but in the first place let us find Miss Dalton."

They went out together, and had not sought her long, when they discovered her pacing perturbedly
up and down a broad walk of closely-shaven grass, inclosed on both sides by a tall impenetrable
fence of evergreens. As soon as she saw them, she advanced quickly to meet them, her face covered
with blushes, but her bearing open and proud. Ere Mrs. Beauchamp had time to speak, she exclaimed,
"Mrs. Beauchamp, I do not deserve your reproaches. Never till this morning was I aware of Mr.
Beauchamp's sentiments towards me. Dear, kind friend, I would have suffered any tortures rather
than that this should have happened."

Fanny was violently agitated; while Mrs. Beauchamp, on the contrary, preserved a calm exterior.
She took one of the young girl's hands between both of hers, and answered soothingly, "Compose
yourself, my dear Fanny, I entreat you. Believe me, I do not blame you for the affection my
son has conceived for you."

"Oh thank you! Indeed you only do me justice."

"But, Fanny, I blame you very much for another reason."

"For what reason, then, madam?"

"For the same reason which now causes your eye to flash, and makes you call your friend by
a ceremonious title. I blame you for your pride, which has made you think of me harshly and
unjustly. Unkind Fanny! What reason have I ever given you to think me heartless or worldly?
Do you not know that those who love are equals? and that if it be a more blessed thing to give,
yet to a generous heart, for that very reason, it ought to be a pleasure to receive? Are you
too proud, Fanny, to take any thing from us, or is it because my son's affection is displeasing
to you that you have rejected him?"

Fanny was now in tears, and even sobbing aloud. "Oh, forgive me," she cried, "forgive me! I
acknowledge my fault. I see that what I believed to be a sense of duty was at least partly
pride. Oh, Mrs. Beauchamp, you would forgive me if you only knew how miserable I was making
myself too!"

"Were you--were you indeed making yourself miserable?" cried Edmund. "Oh say so again, dearest
Fanny; and say you are happy now!"

Mrs. Beauchamp smiled fondly as she answered, "I will do more than forgive you, my poor Fanny,
if you will only love my son. Will you make us both so happy?"

Fanny only replied by a rapid glance at Edmund, and by throwing herself into the arms of Mrs.
Beauchamp, which were extended to receive her. And as she was pressed to that fond, maternal
heart, she whispered audibly, "My mother!--our mother!"

Mrs. Beauchamp then taking her hand, and placing it in that of her son, said with evident emotion,
"Only make Edmund happy, Fanny, and all the gratitude between us will be due on my side; and
oh, my children, as you value your future peace, believe in each other through light and darkness.
And may Heaven bless you both!" She had turned towards the house, when she looked back to ask,
"Shall I countermand the carriage, Fanny?" And Edmund added, half-tenderly, half-slyly, "Shall
you go to-morrow?"

Fanny's tears were scarcely dry, and her blushes were deeper than ever, but she answered immediately,
with her usual lively promptitude, "That depends upon the sort of entertainment you may provide
as an inducement to prolong my visit."

And Edmund, finding that he had no chance with Fanny where repartee or badinage was in question,
had recourse again to the serious vein, and rejoined, "If my power to induce you to prolong
your visit were at all equal to my will, you would remain for ever, my own dearest Fanny."

We must now pass over a few months. The early freshness and verdure of spring had passed away,
and the bloom and the glory of summer had departed. The apple-trees were now laden with their
rosy treasures, the peach was ripe on the sunny wall, and the summer darkness of the woods
had but just begun to be varied by the appearance of a few yellow leaves. It was on a September
afternoon, when the soft light of the autumn sunset was bathing in its pale golden rays the
grey turrets of Woodthorpe Hall, and resting like a parting smile on the summits of the ancestral
oaks and elms, while it cast deep shadows, crossed with bright gleams, on the spreading lawns,
or glanced back from the antlers of the deer, as they ever and anon appeared in the hollows
of the park or between the trees, that a travelling carriage passed under the old Gothic archway
which formed the entrance to Woodthorpe Park, and drove rapidly towards the Hall. It contained
Edmund and Fanny, the newly-married pair, who had just returned from a wedding trip to Paris.
They were not, however, the only occupants of the carriage. With them was Mr. Dalton, whom
we knew in former days as Philip Hayforth, and who had been specially invited by Mrs. Beauchamp
to accompany the bride and bridegroom on their return to Woodthorpe Hall.

And now the carriage stops beneath the porch, and in the arched doorway stands a noble and
graceful figure--the lady of the mansion. The slanting sunbeams, streaming through the stained
windows at the upper end of the oak hall, played upon her dress of dark and shining silk, which
was partly covered by a shawl or mantle of black lace, while her sweet pale face was lighted
up with affection, and her eyes were full of a grave gladness. Her fair hair, just beginning
to be streaked with silver, was parted over her serene forehead, and above it rested a simple
matronly cap of finest lace. Emily Beauchamp was still a beautiful woman--beautiful even as
when in the early prime of youth and love she had stood in the light of the new-born day, clad
in her robes of vestal whiteness. The change in her was but the change from morning to evening--from
spring to autumn; and to some hearts the waning light and the fading leaves have a charm which
sunshine and spring-time cannot boast. Having fondly but hastily embraced her son and daughter,
she turned to Mr. Dalton, and with cordial warmth bade him welcome to Woodthorpe Hall. He started
at the sound of the gentle, earnest tones which, as if by magic, brought palpably before him
scenes and images which lay far remote, down the dim vista of years, obscured, almost hidden,
by later interest and more pressing cares. He looked in Mrs. Beauchamp's face, and a new wonder
met him in the glance of her large brown eyes, so full of seriousness and benignity, while
the smooth white hand which yet held his in its calm friendly clasp seemed strangely like one
he had often pressed, but which had always trembled as he held it. What could all this mean?
Was he dreaming? He was aroused from the reverie into which he had fallen by the same voice
which had at first arrested his attention.

"We must try to become acquainted as quickly as possible, Mr. Dalton," said Mrs. Beauchamp,
"and learn to be friends for our children's sake."

Bowing low, he replied, "I have already learned from my daughter to know and to esteem Mrs.
Beauchamp."

The more Mr. Dalton saw of Mrs. Beauchamp, the more bewildered he became. He fancied what appeared
to him the strangest impossibilities, and yet he found it impossible to believe that there
was no ground for his vague conjectures. His life had been one of incessant toil, lately one
of heavy distress and anxious cares, which had frequently sent him to a sleepless pillow; but
never had he spent a more wakeful night than this, his first under the stately roof which his
daughter--his darling Fanny--called that of her home. He felt that he could not endure another
day of this uncertainty. He must be satisfied at all hazards, and he resolved to make an opportunity,
should such not spontaneously present itself. But he was spared the necessity; for after breakfast
the following morning his hostess offered to show him the grounds--an offer which, with his
desired end in view, he eagerly accepted. They commenced their walk in silence, and seemed
as if both were suddenly under the influence of some secret spell. At last, in a hoarse voice
and a constrained manner, Mr. Dalton abruptly inquired, "Pray, madam, may I ask--though I fear
the question may seem an unceremonious, perhaps a strange one--if you have any relations of
the name of Sherwood?"

He saw her start, as she answered with forced composure, "Yes, Mr. Dalton, I have. It was indeed
my own name before I married."

As she made this avowal, both stood still, it would seem by a sort of tacit, mutual consent,
and earnestly looked at each other.

Philip Hayforth Dalton was now a man past the meridian of life; his once handsome and still
striking countenance was deeply marked with lines of sorrow and care, and his dark luxuriant
locks were thinned and grizzled, while his features, which had long been schooled to betray
no sign of emotion of a transient or superficial nature, were now, as his eyes met those of
Mrs. Beauchamp's, convulsed as by the working of a strong passion. A slight blush tinged Emily's
usually pale cheek; she drew a rapid breath, and her voice faltered perceptibly as she said
at last, "Yes, Philip Hayforth, I am Emily Sherwood!"

Not immediately did he reply either by word or look--not till she had asked somewhat eagerly,
"We are friends, Mr. Dalton--are we not?"

Pride wrestled for a minute with the better nature of Philip Hayforth; but whether it were
that his self-command was now greater than in the fiery and impassioned season of youth, or
that it was difficult to maintain anger and resentment in the gentle, soothing, and dignified
presence in which he now found himself, I undertake not to tell; but certain it is that this
time at least he crushed the old demon down, and forced himself to answer, though with a formal
manner and somewhat harsh tone, "Friends, Mrs. Beauchamp! Certainly, we are friends, if you
wish it. Your goodness to my poor motherless Fanny has completely cancelled all wrongs ever
done to Fanny's father. Let the past be forgotten!"

"Not so, if you please," she answered gently, "rather let it be explained. Mr. Dalton, we are
neither of us young now, and have both, I trust, outlived the rashness of youth. Never till
our mutual truth is made mutually clear, can we be the friends we ought to be--the friends
I wish we were for Edmund's and Fanny's sake. Let us both speak plainly and boldly, and without
fear of offence on either side. I promise, on mine, to take none at the truth, whatever it may be."

Mr. Dalton, as she spoke, regarded her earnestly and wonderingly, saying, as she finished,
half in reverie, half addressing her, it would seem, "The same clear good sense, the same sweet
good temper, which I had persuaded myself was but the effect of a delusive imagination! But
I entreat your pardon, madam, and I promise as you have done."

"Tell me then, truly, Mr. Dalton, why you never answered the last letter I wrote to you, or
acknowledged the receipt of the purse I sent?"

He started, as if he had received a pistol-shot; the formal, distant Mr. Dalton had disappeared,
and the eager, vehement Philip Hayforth stood before her once more. "I did answer it, Emily.
Out of the fulness of my heart--and how full it was I cannot tell you now--I answered your
letter; but you, Emily, you never answered mine."

"Indeed I never received it."

It was some minutes after this announcement ere either was able to speak, but at last Mr. Dalton
exclaimed, "Oh how I have wronged you? Emily, at this instant I catch, as it were, at the bottom
of a dark gulf a glimpse of the evil of my nature. I begin to believe that I have cherished
a devil in my bosom, and called it by the name of a good angel. Emily, if I am not too old
to improve, you will have been the instrument of my improvement. I do not ask you to forgive
me, generous woman, because I feel that you have already done so."

Mrs. Beauchamp felt what it must have cost the proud man to make this acknowledgment, and she
honored him for the effort. "We have both been to blame," she said, "and therefore stand in
need of mutual forgiveness. But it would be idle now to lament the past; rather let us rejoice
that our friendship, re-established on the firm basis of perfect confidence, is cemented by
the union of our dear children."

Mr. Dalton only answered by offering her his arm, with the kind and familiar politeness of
an old friend, as she looked a little fatigued, and they walked together some distance in silence.
At last Mrs. Beauchamp inquired, "Was Fanny's mother like herself?"

"No, Emily. My poor dead Fanny," and his voice trembled slightly, "was very sweet and amiable,
but not at all like my living one."

"Your marriage was happy then? I am glad of that."

"I should have been the most ungrateful of men had it not been so; and yours too, Emily I hope"----

He stopt, he hardly knew why, while, with her eyes fixed on the ground, she answered slowly,
"I am happy, very happy now!"

A feeling of profound respect and admiration held Mr. Dalton silent for a few seconds, and
then he said, in the tone of one who expresses an earnest conviction, "You are the most noble
minded woman I ever knew."

Mrs. Beauchamp made no answer, and it was not till they stood together in the hall, that she
said in her natural tone of kind and calm cheerfulness, "And now, Mr. Dalton, let us look for
Edmund and Fanny; and if you please, in order that they may learn of our mistakes that trust
is the nobler part of love, we shall tell them this story of THE LOST LETTER."

LIFE AT A WATERING-PLACE.

THE LIONNE.

By Charles Astor Bristed.

From Frazer's Magazine.

One day at Oldport Springs went off pretty much like another. There was the same continual
whirl, and flurry, and toiling after pleasure--never an hour of repose--scarcely enough cessation
for the two or three indispensable meals. When they had walked, and flirted, and played ten-pins,
and driven, and danced all day, and all night till two in the morning, the women retired to
their rooms, and the men retired to the gambling-house (which being an illegal establishment
had, on that account, a greater charm in their eyes), and kept it up there till broad daylight;
notwithstanding which, they always contrived to appear at breakfast a few hours after as fresh
as ever, and ready to begin the same round of dissipation. Indeed it was said that Tom Edwards
and his most ardent followers among the boys never went to bed at all, but on their return
from "fighting the tiger," bathed, changed their linen, and came down to the breakfast-room,
taking the night's sleep for granted. It was a perpetual scene of excitement, relieved only
by the heavy and calm figure of Sumner, who, silent and unimpassioned, largely capacious of
meat and drink, a recipient of every diversion, without being excited by any, went through
all the bowling, and riding, and polking, and gambling, with the gravity of a commis performing
the national French dance at the Mabille. There was much rivalry in equipages, especially between
Ludlow, Benson, and Löwenberg, who drove the three four-in-hands of the place, and emulated
one another in horses, harness, and vehicles--even setting up attempts at liveries, in which
they found some imitators (for you can't do any thing in America, however unpopular, without
being imitated): and every horse, wagon, man-servant, and livery, belonging to every one, was
duly chronicled in the Oldport correspondence of the Sewer and the Jacobin, which journals
were wont one day to Billingsgate the "mushroom aristocracy of wealth," and the next to play
Jenkins for their glorification. Le Roi, who owned no horses, and had given up dancing as soon
as he found that there were many of the natives who could out-dance him, and that the late
hours were bad for his complexion, attached himself to any or every married lady who was at
all distinguished for beauty or fortune; and then went about asking, with an ostentatious air
of mystery,--"Est-ce qu' on parle beaucoup de moi et Madame Chose?" Sometimes he deigned to
turn aside for an heiress; and as he was a very amusing and rather ornamental man, the girls
were always glad to have his company; but the good speculations took care not to fall in love
with him, or to give him sufficient encouragement (although a Frenchman does not require a
great deal) to justify a declaration on his part. Perhaps the legend about the mutual-benefit
subscription club hurt his prospects, or it may have been his limited success in dancing. The
same reason--as much, at least, as the assumed one of their vulgarity--kept Mr. Simpson, and
other "birds" of his set, out of the exclusive society. For dancing was the one great article
in the code of the fashionables to which all other amusements or occupations were subordinate.
There was a grand dress-ball once a week at one or other of the hotels, and two undress-balls--hops
they were called: but most of the exclusives went to these also in full dress, and both balls
and hops usually lasted till three or four in the morning. Then on the off-nights "our set"
got up their own little extempore balls in the large public parlor, to the music of some volunteer
pianist, and when the weather was bad they danced in the same place all day; when it was good
these informal matinées did not generally last more than two or three hours. Then there were
serenades given about day-break, by young men who were tired of "the tiger"--nominally to some
particular ladies, but virtually, of course, to the whole hotel, or nearly so--and the only
music they could devise for these occasions were waltzes or polkas. Ashburner made a calculation
that, counting in the serenades, the inhabitants of Oldport were edified by waltz, polka, and
redowa music (in those days the Schottisch was not), eleven hours out of the twenty-four, daily.
And at last, when Mr. Monson, the Cellarius of New-York, came down with various dancing-girls,
native and imported, to give lessons to such aspiring young men as might desire it, first Mrs.
Harrison and other women, who, though wealthy and well-known, were not exactly "of us," used
to drop in to look at the fun; and, finally, all the exclusives, irresistibly attracted by
the sound of fiddles and revolving feet, thronged the little room up-stairs, where the dancing
class was assembled, and from looking on, proceeded to join in the exercises. Ladies, beaux,
and dancing-girls, were all mingled together, whirling and capering about in an apartment fifteen
feet square, which hardly gave them room to pass one another. Benson was the only person who
entered his protest against the proceeding. He declared it was a shame that his countrywomen
should degrade themselves so before foreigners; but his expostulations were only laughed at:
nor could he even persuade his wife and sister-in-law to quit the place, though he stalked
off himself in high dudgeon, and wrote a letter to the Episcopal Banner, inveighing against
the shameless dissipation of the watering-places. For Harry was on very good terms with the
religious people in New-York, and was professedly a religious man, and had some sort of idea
that he mixed with the fashionables to do them good; which was much like what we sometimes
hear of a parson who follows the hounds to keep the sportsmen from swearing, and about as successful.
Trying with all his might to serve God, and to live with the exclusives, he was in a fair way
to get a terrible fall between two stools.

Talking of religion brings us naturally to Sunday, which at Oldport was really required as
a day of rest. But whether it would have been so or not is doubtful, only that the Puritan
habits of the country made dancing on that day impossible. It was a violation of public opinion,
and of the actual law of the land, which no one cared to attempt. The fashionables were thus
left almost without resource. The young men went off to dine somewhere in the vicinity, not
unfrequently taking with them some of Mr. Monson's dancing-girls; the wearied men, and the
women generally, were in a sad state of listlessness. Some of them literally went to bed and
slept for the rest of the week; others, in very despair of something to do, went to church
and fell asleep there. Ashburner took advantage of the lull to fill up his journal, and put
down his observations on the society about him, in which he had remarked some striking peculiarities,
apart from the dancing mania and other outward and open characteristics.

The first thing that surprised him was the great number of misunderstandings and quarrels existing
among the not very large number of people who composed the fashionable set. They seemed to
quarrel with their relatives in preference, as a matter of course; and to admit strangers very
readily to the privilege of relatives. The Robinsons were at feud with all their cousins: Benson
with most of his, except Ludlow. Ludlow, White, Sumner, every man he knew, had his set of private
enemies, with whom he was not on speaking or bowing terms. Mrs. Harrison, who was very friendly
to most of the men, scarcely spoke to a single woman in the place; but this was, perhaps, only
carrying the war into Africa, as the ladies of "our set" generally had intended not to recognize
her as one of them. These numberless feuds made it very difficult to arrange an excursion,
or to get up a dinner at the restaurant of a "colored gentleman," whose timely settlement in
Oldport had enabled Mr. Grabster's guests to escape in some measure the pangs of hunger. On
studying the cause of these disagreeable hostilities, he found that, among relatives, they
were often caused by disputes upon money matters; that between persons not related they frequently
sprung from the most trivial sources--frivolous points of etiquette, petty squabbles at cards,
imaginary jealousies--but that in both cases the majority of them could be traced to the all-pervading
spirit of scandal. His purely intellectual education, if it had not made him somewhat of a
misogynist, had at least prevented him from gaining any accurate knowledge or appreciation
of women: he set them down en masse as addicted to gossip, and was not surprised to find in
the American ladies what he assumed as a characteristic of the whole sex. But he was surprised
to find the same quality so prevalent among the men. Not that they were in the habit of killing
reputations to give themselves bonnes fortunes, as Frenchmen might have done under similar
circumstances; their defamatory gossip was more about men than about women, and seemed to arise
partly from a general disbelief in virtue, and partly from inability to maintain an interesting
conversation on other than personal topics. And though much of this evil speaking was evidently
prompted by personal enmities, much also of it seemed to originate in no hostile feeling at
all; and it was this that particularly astonished Ashburner, to find men speaking disparagingly
of their friends--those who were so in the real sense of that much-abused term. Thus there
could be no reasonable doubt that the cousins, Benson and Ludlow, were much attached to each
other, and fond of each other's society; that either would have been ready to take up the other's
quarrel, or endorse his notes, had circumstances required it. Yet Harry could never refrain
from laughing before third parties at Gerard's ignorance of books, and making him the hero
of all the Mrs. Malaprop-isms he could pick up or invent; or, as we have seen, speaking very
disrespectfully of the motives which had led him to commit matrimony; and Gerard was not slow
to make corresponding comments on various foibles of Harry. But the spirit of detraction was
most fully developed in men who were not professionally idle, but had, or professed to have,
some little business on hand. Of this class was Arthur Sedley, an old acquaintance and groomsman
of Benson, and a barrister--(they are beginning to talk about barristers now in New-York, though
it is a division of labor not generally recognized in the country)--of some small practice.
Really well educated, well read, and naturally clever, his cleverness and knowledge were vastly
more disagreeable than almost any amount of ignorance or stupidity could have been. When he
cut up right and left every man or woman who came on the tapis, his sarcasms were so neatly
pointed that it was impossible to help laughing with him; but it was equally impossible to
escape feeling that, as soon as your back was turned, he would be laughing at you. Riches and
rich people were the commonest subject of his sneers, yet he lost no opportunity of toadying
a profitable connection, and was always supposed to be on the look-out for some heiress.

The next thing which made Ashburner marvel was the extreme youth of the fashionable set, particularly
the male portion of it; or, to speak more critically, the way in which the younger members
of the set had suppressed their elders, and constituted themselves the society. A middle-aged
man, particularly if, like Löwenberg, he happened to be rich, might be admitted to terms of
equality, but the papas and mammas were absolutely set aside, and became mere formulas and
appendages. The old people were nowhere; no one looked after their comfort in a crowd, or consulted
them about any arrangement till after the arrangement was made. They had no influence and no
authority. When Miss Friskin rode a wild colt bareheaded through the streets of Oldport, or
danced the Redowa with little Robinson in so very château-rouge a style that even Mrs. Harrison
turned away, poor Mrs. Friskin could interpose no impediment to the young lady's amusement;
and even her father, the respected senior of the wealthy firm, Friskin & Co., who must have
heard from afar of his daughter's vagaries (for all these things were written in the note-book
of the Sewer), seemed never to have dreamed of the propriety or possibility of coming up to
Oldport to put a stop to them. When Tom Edwards was squandering his fortune night after night
at the faro-table, and his health day after day in ceaseless dissipation, there was no old
friend of his family who dared to give him advice or warning, for there was none to whose advice
or warning he would have listened. Once when Ashburner was conversing with Benson on some subject
which brought on a reference to this inverse order of things, the latter gave his explanation
of it, which was to this effect:--

"The number of foreigners among us, either travelling for pleasure or settled for purposes
of business, is so great that they become an appreciable element in our society. It is, therefore,
requisite that a fashionable should be able to associate easily with foreigners; and for this
it is necessary that he or she should have some knowledge of foreign customs and languages,
and, in the first place, of the French language. Now, if we go back a generation, we shall
find that the men of that day were not educated to speak French. Go into the Senate Chamber
at Washington, for instance, and you will not meet with many of the honorable senators who
can converse in the recognized language of courts. Many of our most distinguished statesmen
and diplomats can speak no tongue but their own. And to descend to private life, with which
we have more particularly to do, when a foreigner presents himself with his letters at the
dwelling of an old city merchant or professional man, it is generally the younger branches
of the family who are called on to amuse him and play interpreters for the rest. This gives
the young people a very decided advantage over their elders, and it is not surprising that
they have become a little vain of it. And similarly with regard to foreign dresses, dances,
cookery, and habits generally. The young men, having been the latest abroad, are the freshest
and best informed in these things. It does not require any great experience or wisdom to master
them, only some personal grace and aptitude for imitation to start with, and an à plomb to
which ignorance is more conducive than knowledge. Hence the standard of excellence has become
one of superficial accomplishment, and the man of matured mind who enters into competition
with these handsome, showy, and illiterate boys, puts himself at a discount. Look at Löwenberg.
All his literary acquirements and artistic tastes (and he really has a great deal of both)
go for nothing. The little beaux can speak nearly as many languages as he can, and dance and
dress better. The only thing they can appreciate about him is his money, and the horses and
dinners consequent thereon. If little Robinson, there, with his ne plus ultra tie and varnished
shoes, were to have the same fortune left him to-morrow, he would be the better man of the
two, because he can polk better, and because, being neither a married man nor the agent of
a respectable house, he can gamble and do other things which Löwenberg's position does not
allow him to do."

This was a great confession for Benson to make against the country; nevertheless, it was not
perfectly satisfactory to Ashburner, who thought that it did not explain all the phenomena
of the case. It seemed to him that there was at work a radical spirit of insubordination, and
a principle of overturning the formerly recognized order of domestic rule. The little children
ate and drank what they liked, went to bed when they liked, and altogether were very independent
of their natural rulers. Benson's boy rode rough-shod over his nurse, bullied his mother, and
only deigned to mind his father occasionally. The wives ruled their husbands despotically,
and acted as if they had taken out a patent for avenging the inferiority of their sex in other
parts of the world. Benson did not like dancing: he only danced at all because he thought it
his business to know a little of every thing, and because society thought it the duty of every
young man who was not lame to understand the polka. But his wife kept him going at every ball
for six hours, during five of which he was bored to death. Ludlow, whose luxurious living made
violent exercise necessary for his health, and who, therefore, delighted in fencing, boxing,
and "constitutionals" that would have tired a Cantab, was made to drive about Mrs. Ludlow all
day till he hated the sight of his own horses. As to Mrs. Harrison, she treated her husband,
when he made his appearance at Oldport (which was not very often) as unceremoniously as one
would an old trunk, or any other piece of baggage which is never alluded to or taken notice
of except when wanted for immediate use.

Ashburner first met this lady a very few days after his arrival at Oldport; indeed, she was
so conspicuous a figure in the place that one could not be there long without taking notice
of her. About mid-day there was usually a brief interval between the ten-pin bowling and the
informal dance; and during one of these pauses he perceived on the smoking-piazza where ladies
seldom ventured, a well-dressed and rather handsome woman smoking a cigarette, and surrounded
by a group of beaux of all sizes, from men like White and Sumner to the little huge-cravated
boys in their teens. She numbered in her train at least half-a-dozen of these cavaliers, and
was playing them off against one another and managing them all at once, as a circus-rider does
his four horses, or a juggler his four balls. In a country where beauty is the rule rather
than the exception, she was not a remarkable beauty--at least, she did not appear such to Ashburner,
from that distance; nor was her dress, though sufficiently elegant and becoming, quite so artistically
put on as that of Mrs. Benson and the other belles of the set; still there was clearly something
very attractive and striking about her, and he was immediately induced to inquire her name,
and, on learning that she was a real lady (though not of "our set" of ladies), to request an
introduction to her. But Benson, to whom he first applied, instead of jumping at the opportunity
with his usual readiness to execute or anticipate his friend's wishes, boggled exceedingly,
and put off the introduction under frivolous and evidently feigned pretences. It was so uncommon
for Benson to show any diffidence in such matters, and his whole air said so plainly, "I will
do this out of friendship for you if you wish it, but for my own part I would rather not,"
that Ashburner saw there was something in the wind, and let the subject drop. Ludlow, to whom
he next had recourse, told him, with the utmost politeness but in very decided terms, that
"his family" (he was careful not to insist on his own personality in the affair) "had not the
honor of Mrs. Harrison's acquaintance." The next man who happened to come along was Mr. Simpson,
and to him Ashburner made application, thinking that, perhaps, the fair smoker might more properly
belong to the "second set," though so surrounded by the beaux of the first. But even Simpson,
though the last man in the world to be guilty of any superfluous delicacy, hesitated very much,
and made some allusion to Mrs. Simpson; and then Ashburner began to comprehend the real state
of the case,--that most of the married women had declared war against Mrs. Harrison, that she
had retaliated upon them all, and that the husbands were drawn into their wives' quarrels,
and obliged to fight shy of her before strangers. It was clear, then, that he must apply to
a bachelor; and accordingly he waylaid Sumner, who "was too happy" to introduce him at once
in due form.

As Ashburner came up to Mrs. Harrison she began to play off her eyes at him, and he then perceived
that they constituted her chief beauty. They were of that deep blue which, in certain lights,
passes for black,--large, expressive, and pleasing; the sort of eyes that go right through
a man and look him down to nothing. Indeed, they had such effect on him that he lost all distinctive
idea of her other features. Her manner, too, had something very attractive, though he could
not have defined wherein it consisted. She did not exhibit the empressement with which most
of her countrywomen seek to put a stranger at his ease at once; or the exigence of a spoiled
lady waiting to be amused; or the haughtiness of a great lady, who does not care if she is
amused herself and deigns no effort to amuse others. Neither did she attack him with raillery
and irony, as Mrs. Benson had done on their first meeting. But she behaved as if she were used
to seeing men like Ashburner every day of her life, and was willing to meet them half-way and
be agreeable to them, if they were so to her, without taking any particular trouble, for there
was no appearance of effort to please, or even of any strong desire to please, in her words
and gestures; yet she did please and attract very decidedly.

"So I saw you in Mrs. Harrison's train!" said Benson, when they next met.

"Yes, and I fancy I know why you hesitated to introduce me."

As Ashburner spoke he glanced towards the parlor, where "our set"--Mrs. Benson, of course,
conspicuous among them--were engaged in their ordinary occupation of dancing.

"Oh, I assure you, madame is not disposed to be jealous, nor am I a man to take part in women's
quarrels. I don't like the lady myself, to begin with; and were I a bachelor, should have as
little to say to her as I have now. In the first place she is too old----"

"Too old! she cannot be thirty."

"Of course a lady never is thirty, until she is fifty, at least; but at any rate I may say,
without sacrilege, that Mrs. H. is pretty high up in the twenties. Now, at that age a woman
ought--not to give up society, that would be an absurdity in the other extreme, but--to leave
the romping dances and the young men to the girls, who want them more and whom they become
better. Then I don't like her face. You must have taken notice that all the upper part of it
is fine and intellectual, and she has glorious eyes----"

"Yes," said Ashburner.

"But all the lower part is heavy and over-sensuous. Now, not only does this, in my opinion,
entirely disfigure a woman's looks, but it suggests unpleasant ideas of her character. A man
may have that ponderous chin and voluptuous mouth, without their disturbing the harmony of
an otherwise handsome face. I do not think a woman can; and as in the physical so in the moral.
A man can stand a much greater amount of sensuousness in his composition than a woman. I do
not mean to allude to the different standards of morality for the two sexes admitted by society;
for I don't admit it, and think it very unjust; and I am proud to say that our people generally
entertain more virtuous as well as more equitable views on this point than the Europeans. I
mean literally that a man having so many opportunities for leading an active life, and being
able to reason himself into or out of a great many things to or from which a woman's only guide
is her feelings, may be very sensuous without its doing any positive harm to himself or others;
but with a woman, who is compelled to lead a comparatively idle life, such an element predominating
in her character is sure to bring her into mischief."

"Do you mean to say, then, that----" and Ashburner stopped short, but his look implied the
remainder of his interrupted question.

"Do you ask me from a personal motive?"

Ashburner colored, and was proceeding to disclaim any such motive with an air of injured innocence.

"No, I don't mean any thing of the sort," said Benson, who felt that he had gone rather too
far, and might unintentionally have slandered his countrywoman. "I believe the lady is as pure
as--as my wife, or any one else. The number of her beaux, and the equality with which she treats
them, prove conclusively to my mind that her flirting never runs into any thing worse. I don't
think a woman runs any danger of that kind when she has such a lot of cavaliers; they keep
watch on her and on one another. I remember when my brother lived in town, he once was away
from home for two or three weeks, and when he came back an old maid who lived in his street,
and used to keep religious watch over the goings-out and comings-in of every one in the vicinity,
said to him, "How very gay your wife is, Mr. Benson! she has been walking with a different
gentleman every day since you were gone.' 'Dear me!' says Carl; 'a different man every day!
How glad I am! If you had told me she was walking with the same man every day I might have
been a little scared.' But a woman may be perfectly chaste herself, and yet cause a great deal
of unchasteness in other people. Here is this Mrs. Harrison, smoking cigarettes--and cigars,
too, sometimes, in the open air; drinking grog at night, and sometimes in the morning; letting
Tom Edwards and the foolish boys who imitate him talk slang to her without putting them down;
always ready for a walk or drive with the last handsome young man who has arrived; and utterly
ignoring her husband, except when she makes some slighting mention of him for not sending her
money enough: what is the effect of all this upon the men? The foreigners; there are plenty
of them here every season; I wonder there are so few this time: instead of one decent Frenchman
like Le Roi, you usually find half-a-dozen disreputable ones; Englishmen many, not always of
the best sort; Germans, Russians, and Spaniards, occasionally: they all are inclined to look
upon her--especially considering her belligerent attitude towards the rest of the female population--as
something très légère, and to attempt to go a little too far with her. Then she puts them down
fast enough, and they in spite say things about her, the discredit of which extends to our
ladies generally--in short, she exposes the country before foreigners. Then for the natives,
she catches some poor boy just loose upon the world, dances with, flatters him--for she has
a knack of flattering people without seeming to do so, especially by always appearing to take
an interest in what is said to her,--keeps him dangling about her for a while; then some day
he says or does something to make a fool of himself, and she extinguishes him. The man gets
a check of this sort at his entry into society that is enough to make him a misogynist for
life. And the little scenes that she used to get up last summer with married men, just to make
their wives jealous!"

"Which, I suppose, is the reason none of your wives will let you speak to her?" said Ashburner,
who began to feel, he hardly knew why, a sentiment of partisanship for Mrs. Harrison. "But
granting that her face, as you describe it, is an index of her character, I should draw from
that exactly the opposite inference. I believe that the women who make mischief in the way
you mention are your unsensuous and passionless ones--that the perfect flirt, single or married,
must be a perfectly cold woman, because it is only one of such a temperament who can thus trifle
with others without danger to herself. I speak hesitatingly, for all women are a mystery, and
my experience is as yet very limited; but such opportunities of observation as have fallen
to my lot confirm me in the theory."

Somewhat to Ashburner's surprise his friend made no attempt to controvert his argument. He
only turned it aside, saying,----

"Well, I don't like her, at any rate. If I had no other reason, the way she talks of her husband
would be enough to make me."

"Oh, there is a Mr. Harrison, then? One hears so little of him----"

"And sees so nothing of him, you may say."

"Exactly--that I took him for a mythological personage--a cousin of our Mrs. Harris."

"Nevertheless I assure you Mr. Harrison exists very decidedly--a Wall-street speculator, and
well known as such by business people, a capital man behind a trotter, an excellent judge of
wine. Probably he will come here from the city once or twice before we leave, and I shall find
an opportunity to introduce you to him, for he is really worth knowing and considerable of
a man, as we say--no fool at all, except in the way he lets his wife bully him."

"If he made an unsuitable match that does not show his wisdom conspicuously."

"It was an unsuitable match enough, Heaven knows! But when he proposed he was in the state
of mind in which sensible people do the most foolish things. He was a great man in stocks--controlled
the market at one time--had been buying largely just before the election of '44, when we all
expected Henry Clay would get in with plenty to spare. When Polk was elected, great was the
terror of all respectable citizens. My brother caught such a fright then that I don't think
he has fairly recovered from it to this day. How the stocks did tumble down! Harrison had about
nine millions on his hands; he couldn't keep such a fund, and was forced to sell at any price,
and lost just one third. Just as he was beginning to pick himself up after the shock and wonder,
like the sailor whom the conjurer blew up, what was to come next? Mr. Whitey of the Jacobin,
now the honorable Pompey Whitey--and one doesn't see why he shouldn't be, for after all an
editor is not, generally speaking, a greater blackguard than most of our Congressmen--Whitey,
I say, who for our sins is nominally attached to the Conservative party, conceived the bright
idea of overbidding the enemy for popular favor, and proposed--no, he didn't actually propose
in so many words, but only strongly hinted at the desirableness of the measure--that there
should be no more paying rent, and a general division of property. I am not sure but there
were some additional suggestions on the expediency of abolishing the Christian religion and
the institution of matrimony, but that has nothing to do with politics. This last drop in the
bucket quite overflowed poor Harrison; so, as if he had said to himself, "Let us eat and drink
and get married, for to-morrow we shall have a proscription and novæ tabulæ," he rushed off
and proposed to Miss Macintyre."

"Then, if she accepted him after he lost his fortune, it shows she did not marry for money,
at any rate."

"There you have missed it. He lost the whole of a fortune, but not the whole of his. He must
have a million of dollars left, and a man with that is not poor in any country--certainly it
was a great catch for Miss Macintyre, without a red cent of her own. She jilted a Frenchman
for him: the unfortunate, or fortunate cast-off had ordered much jewelry and other wedding
presents, and when left in the lurch he quietly proposed that, as he had no longer any use
for the articles, Harrison, who had, should take them off his hands; and this offer was accepted.
Very French in him to make it--don't you think so?--and rather American in the other to take
it. Well, I hope Harrison will come this way soon; I should really like you to know him."

One or two days after this conversation Ashburner met his friend walking up and down the interminable
piazza of the Bath Hotel, arm-in-arm with a middle-aged man, who presented as great a contrast
to Benson's usual associates, and to Benson himself, as could well be imagined. The new-comer
was short of stature and square-built, rather ugly, and any thing but graceful; he wore very
good clothes, but they were badly put on, and looked as if they had never undergone the brush
since leaving the tailor's hands; he wore no gloves, and in short had altogether an unfashionable
appearance. But though indubitably an unfashionable man, he did not give you the impression
of a vulgar one; there was nothing snobbish or pretentious in his ugliness, and his cavernous
black eye could have belonged only to an intelligent and able man. Benson was joking or pressing
upon him some matter which he seemed unwilling to explain.

"But do tell me," said Harry, as they passed Ashburner, "what have you been doing to yourself?
Sprained your finger by working too hard the night before last packet day? or tumbled down
from running too fast in Wall-street, and not thinking which way you were going?" And he took
in his own delicate white hand the rough paw of the stranger, which was partly bound up as
if suffering from some recent injury.

"If you must know," said the other, stopping short his walk, "I broke my knuckles on an Irish
hackman's teeth. Last week the fellow drove me from the North River boat to my house in Union
Square, and I offered him seventy-five cents. He was very insolent and demanded a dollar. If
I had had a dollar-note about me I might have given it to him, but it happened that I had only
the six shillings in change; and so, knowing that was two shillings more than his legal fare,
I became as positive as he. At last he seized my trunk, and then I could not resist the temptation
of giving him a left-hander that sent him clean down the steps into the gutter."

"And then?

"He made a great bawling, and was beginning to draw a crowd about the house, when I walked
off to the nearest police-station; and as it turned out that my gentleman was known as a troublesome
character, they threatened to take away his license and have him sent to Blackwell's Island
if he didn't keep quiet; so he was too glad to make himself scarce."

"By Jove, you deserve a testimonial from the city! I once got twenty dollars damages from an
omnibus-driver for running into my brougham, knocking off a wheel, and dumping my wife and
child into the street; and I thought it was a great exploit, but this performance of yours
throws me into the shade."

Just then Benson caught sight of Ashburner, and excusing himself to the other, rushed up to him.

"Let me tell you now, before I forget it. We are going over to the glen to-morrow to dine,
and in fact spend the day there. You'll come, of course?"

"With great pleasure," said Ashburner; "but pray don't let me take you away from your friend."

"Oh, that's only Harrison."

We meant, of course, our set, with such foreign lions as the place afforded, foremost among
whom stood Ashburner and Le Roi. Benson, Ludlow, and some of the other married men undertook
to arrange it, always under the auspices of the Robinsons.

These Robinsons were evidently the leaders in every movement of the fashionables, but why they
were so was not so clear--at least, to Ashburner, though he had abundant opportunities of studying
the whole family. There was a father in some kind of business, who occupied the usual position
of New-York fathers; that is to say, he made the money for the rest of the family to spend,
and showed himself at Oldport once a fortnight or so--possibly to pay the bills. There was
a mother, stout and good-humored, rather vulgar, very fussy, and no end of a talker: she always
reminded Ashburner of an ex-lady-mayoress. There were three or four young men, sons and cousins,
with the usual amount of white tie and the ordinary dexterity in the polka; and two daughters,
both well out of their teens. The knowing ones said that one of these young ladies was to have
six thousand a year by her grandfather's will, and the other little or nothing; but it was
not generally understood which was the heiress, and the old lady manoeuvred with them as if
both were. This fact, however, was not sufficient to account for their rank as belles, since
there were several other girls in their circle quite as well, or better off. Nor had their
wit or talent any share in giving them their position; on the contrary, people used to laugh
at the bêtises of the Robinsons, and make them the butt of real or imaginary good stories.
And, in point of birth, they were not related to the Van Hornes, the Bensons, the Vanderlyns,
or any of the old Dutch settlers; nor like White Ludlow, and others of their set, sprung from
the British families of long standing in the city. On the very morning of the proposed excursion
Sedley was sneering at them for parvenus, and trying to amuse Ashburner at their expense with
some ridiculous stories about them.

"And yet," said the Englishman, "these people are your leaders of fashion. You can't do any
thing without them. They are the head of this excursion that we are just going upon." Benson
tells me "the Robinsons are to be there," as if that settled the propriety and desirability
of my being there also."

"As to that," replied Sedley, "fashionable society is a vast absurdity anywhere, and it is
only natural that absurd people should be at the head of it. The Robinsons want to be fashionable--it
is their only ambition--they try hard for it; and it is generally the case that those who devote
themselves to any pursuit have some success in it, and only right that it should be so. Then
they are hopelessly good-natured folks, that you can't insult or quarrel with." Sedley had
so little of this quality himself that he looked on the possession of it as a weakness rather
than a virtue. "Then they are very fond of good living."

"Yes, I remember hearing Benson say that he always liked to feed Mrs. Robinson at a ball,--it
was a perfect pleasure to see her eat; and that when Löwenberg, in the pride of his heart,
gave a three-days' déjeûner, or lunch, or whatever it was, after his marriage, she was seen
there three times each day."

"And he might have told you that they are as liberal of their own good things as fond of those
of others. Old Robinson has some first-rate Madeira, better by a long chalk than that Vanderlyn
Sercial that Harry Benson is always cramming down your throat--metaphorically, I mean, not
literally. The young men like to drop in there of an evening, for they are sure to find a good
supper and plenty of materials ready for punch and polka. Then they always manage to catch
the newest lions. When I first saw you in their carriage along-side of Miss Julia, I said to
myself, "That Englishman must be somebody, or the Robinsons would not have laid hold of him
so soon." But their two seasons in Paris were the making of them,--and the unmaking, too, in
another sense; for they ate such a hole in their fortune--or, rather, their French guests did
for them--that it has never recovered its original dimensions to this day. They took a grand
hotel, and gave magnificent balls, and filled their rooms with the Parisian aristocracy. My
uncle, who is an habitué of Paris, was at the Jockey Club one day, and heard two exquisites
talking about them. "Connaissez-vous ce Monsieur Robinson?" asked one. "Est-ce que je le connais!"
replied the other, shrugging his shoulders. "Je mange ses dîners, je danse à ses bals; v'la
tout." Voilà tout, indeed! That is just all our people get by keeping open house for foreigners."

Just then Benson and Ludlow came up, the former under much excitement, and the latter in a
sad state of profanity. As they both insisted on talking at once, it was some time before either
was intelligible; at length Ashburner made out that the excursion had met with a double check.
In the first place, all the bachelors had demanded that Mrs. Harrison should be of the party,
in which they were sustained by Löwenberg, who, though partly naturalized by his marriage,
still considered himself sufficiently a stranger to be above all spirit of clique. All the
other married men had objected, but the Harrisonites ultimately carried their point. Of the
two principal opponents, Ludlow was fairly talked off his feet by the voluble patois of Löwenberg,
and Benson completely put down by the laconic and inflexible Sumner. So far so bad, but worse
was to follow; for after the horses had been ordered, and most of the ladies, including the
Robinsons, bonneted and shawled for the start, the lionne, who had, doubtless, heard of the
unsuccessful attempt to blackball her, and wished to make a further trial of her power, suddenly
professed a headache, whereupon her partisans almost unanimously declared that, as she couldn't
go, they didn't want to go; and thus the whole affair had fallen through. Such was the substance
of their melancholy intelligence, which they had hardly finished communicating when a dea ex
machina appeared in the person of Mrs. Benson. She declared that it was "a shame," and "too
bad," and she "had never," &c.; and brought her remarks to a practical conclusion by vowing
that she would go, at any rate, whoever chose to stay with that woman; "and if no one else
goes with us I'm sure Mr. Ashburner will:" at which Ashburner was fain to express his readiness
to follow her to the end of the world, if necessary. Then she followed up her advantage by
sending a message to Sumner, which took him captive immediately; and as she was well seconded
by the Robinsons, who on their part had brought over Le Roi, the party was soon reorganized
pretty much on its original footing. When the cause of all the trouble found herself likely
to be left in a minority her headache vanished immediately, in time for her to secure beaux
enough to fill her barouche, and Mr. Harrison was put into a carriage with the musicians. Mrs.
Benson's vehicle was equally well filled; and Harry, who, by his wife's orders, and much against
his own will, had lent his wagon and ponies to a young Southerner that was doing the amiable
to Miss Vanderlyn, had nothing left for it but to go on horseback; in which Ashburner undertook
to join him, having heard that there was a good bit of turf on the road to the glen.

"If you go that way," said Mrs. Robinson, when he announced his intention, "you will have another
companion. Mr. Edwards means to ride."

Ashburner had seen Edwards driving a magnificent trotter about Oldport, but could not exactly
fancy him outside of a horse, and conjectured that he would not make quite so good a figure
as when leading the redowa down a long ball-room. But the hero of the dance was not forthcoming
for some time, so they mounted, Benson his pet Charlie, and the Englishman the best horse the
stables of Oldport could furnish, which it is hardly necessary to say was not too good a one,
and were leaving the village leisurely to give the carriages a good start of them, when they
heard close behind the patter of a light-stepping horse, and the next moment Tom Edwards ranged
up along side. The little man rode a bright bay mare, rising above fifteen hands, nearly full-blooded,
but stepping steadily and evenly, without any of that fidget and constant change of gait which
renders so many blood-horses any thing but agreeable to ride, and carrying her head and tail
to perfection. He wore white cord trousers, a buff waistcoat, and a very natty white hair-cloth
cap. His coat was something between a summer sack and a cutaway,--the color, a rich green of
some peculiar and indescribable shade. His spurs were very small, but highly polished; and,
instead of a whip, he carried a little red cane with a carved ivory head. In his marvellously
fitting white buckskin glove he managed a rein of some mysterious substance that looked like
a compound of india-rubber and sea-weed. He sat his mare beautifully--with a little too much
aim at effect, perhaps; but gracefully and firmly at the same time. Ashburner glanced at his
own poor beast and wished for Daredevil, whose antics he had frequently controlled with great
success at Devilshoof; and Benson could not help looking a little mortified, for Charlie was
not very well off for tail, and had recollections of his harness days, which made him drop
his head at times and pull like a steam engine; besides which, Harry--partly, perhaps, from
motives of economy, partly, as he said, because he thought it snobbish to ride in handsome
toggery--always mounted in the oldest clothes he had, and with a well-used bridle and saddle.
But there was no help for it now, so off the three went together at a fair trot, and soon overtook
most of the party, Edwards putting his spurs into the bay mare and showing off her points and
his horsemanship at every successive vehicle they passed.

The piece of turf which Benson had promised his friend was not quite so smooth as Newmarket
heath, but it was more than three-quarters of a mile long, and sufficiently level to be a great
improvement on the heavy and sandy road. So unaccustomed, however, are Americans to "riding
on grass," that Edwards could not be persuaded to quit the main path until Benson had repeatedly
challenged him to a trot on the green. As soon as the two horses were fairly along-side they
went off, without waiting the signal from their riders, at a pace which kept Ashburner at a
hand-gallop. For awhile they were neck-and-neck, Benson and Charlie hauling against each other,
the rider with his weight thrown back in the stirrups and laboring to keep his "fast crab"
from breaking, while the mare struck out beautifully with a moderate pull of the rein. Then
as Benson, who carried no whip, began to get his horse more in hand, he raised a series of
yells in true jockey fashion, to encourage his own animal and to break up Edwards's. The mare
skipped--Tom caught her in an instant, but she fell off in her stroke from being held up, and
Charlie headed her a length; then he gave her her head, and she broke--once, twice, three times;
and every time Benson drew in his horse, who was now well settled down to his work, and waited
for Edwards to come on. At last, his mare and he both lost their tempers at once. She started
for a run, and he dropped the reins on her back and let her go. At the same instant Benson
stuck both spurs into Charlie, who was a rare combination of trotter and runner, and away went
the two at full gallop. Ashburner's hack was left behind at once, but he could see them going
on close together, tooling their horses capitally; Edwards's riding, being the more graceful,
and Benson's the more workmanlike; the mare leading a trifle, as he thought, and Charlie pressing
her close. Suddenly Edwards waved his cane as in triumph, but the next moment he and his mare
disappeared, as if the earth had swallowed them up, while Benson's horse sheered off ten feet
to the left.

TO ONE IN AFFLICTION.

By John R. Thompson.

From the Southern Literary Messenger.

    Dear friend! if word of mine could seal
      The bitter fount of all thy tears,
      And, through the future's cloudy years,
    Some glimpse of sunshine yet reveal--

    That word I might not dare to speak:
      A father's sorrow o'er his child
      So sacred seems and undefiled,
    To bid it cease we may not seek.

    Thy little boy has passed away
      From mortal sight and mortal love,
      To join the shining choir above
    And dwell amid the perfect day;

    All robed in spotless innocence,
      And fittest for celestial things,
      O'ershadowed by her rustling wings
    The angel softly led him hence:

    As pure as if the gentle rain
      Of his baptismal morn had sought
      His bosom's depths, and e'ery thought
    Had sweetly cleansed from earthly stain:

    Such blest assurance brings, I know,
      To bleeding hearts but sad relief--
      The dark and troubled tide of grief
    Must have its ebb and flow--

    And most of all when thou dost plod,
      Alone, upon these wintry days,
      Along the old familiar ways
    Wherein his little feet have trod.

    And thou dost treasure up his words,
      The fragments of his earnest talk,
      On some remembered morning walk,
    When, at the song of earliest birds,

    He'd ask of thee, with charméd look,
      And smile upon his features spread,
      Whose careful hand the birds had fed,
    And filled the ever-running brook?

    Or viewing, from the distant glade,
      The dim horizon round his home,
      With simplest speech and air would come
    And ask why were the mountains made?

    Be strong, my friend, these days of doom
      Are but the threads of darkest hue,
      That daily enter to renew
    The warp of the Eternal Loom.

    And when to us it shall be given
      In joy to see the other side
      These threads the brightest shall abide
    In the fair tapestries of Heaven!

MY NOVEL:

OR, VARIETIES IN ENGLISH LIFE.

By Pisistratus Caxton.

Continued from page 421. She's never so pleased as when she's playing with the babies."

"Humph!" grunted Riccabocca. "Babies--well, that's womanlike. A fine sunny day for a walk."

Mrs. Dale (absent and distrait.)--"The Squire--yes, very true--quite proper." Therefore, in
that case, no harm would be done. My grandfather and father followed his example: I have done
the same. Well, my men, that says a great deal in favor of improving property, and not letting
it go to the dogs.

Historical Review of the Month.

In this number of the International, copying the example of the oldest magazine in the world,
The Gentleman's, which for a hundred years has found its account in such a department, we present
a carefully prepared and succinct summary of the history of the world, as it has come to our
knowledge during the past month. It is intended hereafter to continue this feature in the International,
devoting to it such attention that our pages shall always be deserving of consultation as an
authority in regard to contemporary events. In the general characteristics of this department
we shall offer nothing very original; the examples of our English contemporaries will be generally
adhered to; but the utmost care and candor will be evinced in every resumé of affairs or opinions
admitted to our pages.

THE UNITED STATES.

As the session of Congress draws near to its close, its proceedings become more animated and
interesting. It is already evident, however, that but few of the questions recommended for
its consideration can be disposed of before its adjournment. One of its most important acts
was the passage of the Cheap Postage Bill, in the House, on the seventeenth of January, by
a vote of 130 to 75. This bill provides for a uniform rate of three cents per half-ounce, on
letters, and a material reduction in the rates charged for newspapers and periodicals. The
Senate Committee to whom the bill was referred, have reported amendments raising the postage
to five cents on unpaid letters, striking out the provision allowing newspapers to go free
within thirty miles of their place of publication, and reducing postage on magazines fifty
per cent when prepaid. The French Spoliation Bill, after considerable discussion, passed the
Senate on Friday, January 24th. The bill provides for the payment of claims based on the detention
of vessels in the port of Bordeaux, the forcible capture and detention of American citizens,
and depredations on American commerce in the West Indies, to the amount of $5,000,000.

The bill to ascertain and settle Private Land Claims in California, introduced by Mr. Fremont
towards the close of last session, was called up by Mr. Gwin, his colleague, on the twenty-seventh
of January. Mr. Gwin offered a substitute, which was agreed to in Committee of the Whole, when
the bill was reported to the Senate. After a most animated debate, in which the bill was strongly
opposed by Mr. Benton, it finally passed the Senate on the sixth of February.

The bill introduced in the House for the establishment of Branch Mints in New-York and San
Francisco gave rise to an exciting debate. The bill was discussed for several days, the Pennsylvania
members opposing it in a body. Its defeat was finally accomplished on Wednesday, February 5th.
Since then Mr. Gwin has introduced in the Senate a separate bill for the establishment of a
Branch Mint in San Francisco. A joint resolution, reported to the Senate by Mr. Rusk, providing
that dead letters remaining in the post-offices of California and Oregon shall be opened at
the post-office in San Francisco, under care of a special agent, was adopted.

In the Senate, February 5th, the Committee on Foreign Relations, of which Mr. Foote is chairman,
reported a resolution that in all future treaties by the United States, provisions should be
made for settling difficulties by arbitration, before resorting to war. The Judiciary Committee
also reported in favor of Messrs. Winthrop and Ewing (senators appointed by the governors of
Massachusetts and Ohio to fill vacancies) holding their seats till their regularly-elected
successors appear to claim their places. Mr. Winthrop, however, on Friday, February 7th, presented
the credentials of his successor, Mr. Rantoul, (who had not yet arrived,) and vacated his seat.
The credentials of Mr. Bright, as senator from Indiana for the ensuing term, were presented
on the twenty-eighth of January.

A bill for the relief of Mrs. Charlotte Lynch, mother of Miss Anne C. Lynch, the poetess, passed
the House by a majority of 11. It had previously passed the Senate. Mrs. Lynch is the only
surviving child of Colonel Ebenezer Gray, of the Connecticut line, who served in the army of
the Revolution. The bill provides five years' full pay, as an equivalent for the losses sustained
by him through the substitution of the commutation certificates issued in 1783.

The American Minister at Rio Janeiro has transmitted some important information to the Government
in regard to the Brazilian traffic in slaves under the American flag. A considerable portion
of the infamous trade, by which from forty to fifty thousand negroes are annually imported
into Brazil, is carried on in American-built vessels, under the protection of our flag. It
has been found impossible to enforce the Brazilian statutes on the subject, the authorities
charged with their execution, almost without exception, conniving at the traffic. In spite
of the exertions of the American Minister, our flag is still used as a protection, and its
influence is given to the support of the slave-dealer. The communications of the American Minister
have been referred by the Senate to the Committee on Commerce. Mr. Clay spoke at some length
in favor of adopting more efficient measures to prevent American vessels and seamen from engaging
in the slave-trade.

The project of establishing a line of steamers between several American ports and the coast
of Africa, Gibraltar, and England,--familiarly known as the "Ebony Line,"--has been strongly
recommended to Congress by petitions from all quarters. The Legislature of Virginia, and the
Constitutional Convention of the same State, now in session, have both passed resolutions in
its favor. Several other States have done, or are about to do the same thing. The session is
already so far advanced, however, that the subject will probably be left without action for
the next Congress.

The Senate Committee on the Post-office has reported in favor of granting to a company the
right of way and subscription to the stock of an Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company.

Mr. Kaufman, a member of the House, from Texas, died very suddenly on the thirty-first of January.
His funeral took place on the Monday following, February 3d. Mr. Kaufman was born in Pennsylvania
in 1813, graduated in Princeton College in 1833, practiced law in Louisiana, and removed to
Texas in 1835.

The subject of most general interest in the political world is the election of United States
Senator, in a number of the States, for the term commencing on the 4th of March. Several elections
have taken place, and others have not been accomplished in spite of repeated ballots. In New-York,
the Constitution provides for an election on the first Wednesday of February. On that day the
Whig candidate, ex-Governor Hamilton Fish, received a majority of 37 in the House: the Senate,
after two ineffectual ballots, adjourned. A special law will therefore be required to elect
a senator. In Massachusetts, the Democratic candidate, Robert Rantoul, Jr., was elected to
fill the vacancy occasioned by Mr. Webster's acceptance of a place in the Cabinet. All attempts
to elect a senator for the ensuing term have failed up to this period. Mr. Sumner, the Free
Soil candidate, lacked but two votes of an election on the twelfth ballot, but afterwards lost.
It was finally postponed to the twenty-seventh of February. In the Ohio Legislature, ten successive
ballots were cast without arriving at an election, after which the subject was indefinitely
postponed. In Rhode Island, General Charles T. James, the Democratic candidate, was elected;
in Florida, Stephen R. Mallory, in place of Hon. D. L. Yulee, both Democrats; and in Delaware,
James A. Bayard, Democrat, in the place of Mr. Wales, the present Whig senator. Hon. Henry
Dodge was reelected by the Legislature of Wisconsin, by a majority of one, on the fifth vote.
In Pennsylvania, Hon. Richard Brodhead was elected in place of Mr. Sturgeon, both members of
the Democratic party. Henry S. Geyer, Whig, has been elected by the State of Missouri, as United
States Senator, in place of Col. Thomas H. Benton, who is superseded after an uninterrupted
service of thirty years.

William H. Ross, the new Governor of Delaware, was inaugurated at Dover, on the twenty-first
of January. The most important feature of his address was the recommendation of a revision
of the State Constitution. George F. Fort, the new Governor of New Jersey, has been inaugurated.
His address takes ground in favor of the compromise measures passed by Congress. He also advocates
the Free School System, and the election of Judges by the people. Governor French, of Illinois,
in his annual message, represents the State as being in a prosperous condition, the revenue
being sufficient to meet the demands upon the treasury. He recommends a geological survey of
the State, and the passage of a Homestead Exemption Law. The schools of the State are in a
flourishing condition. The message of Governor Dewey, of Wisconsin, also shows an improved
condition of State affairs. The finances are represented as being sound, and the credit of
the State relieved from all fear of bankruptcy. Apprehensions of danger to the citizens residing
north of Wisconsin river, from the return of the Winnebagoes, have been quieted by the appointment
of an agent to confer with that tribe. The message of Governor Ramsey to the second Legislative
Assembly of Minnesota Territory is an interesting document. Among other subjects recommended
to the attention of the Assembly are the agricultural interests of the Territory, and the improvement
of the Mississippi river, both above and below the Falls of St. Anthony. The extinction of
the Indian title at Pembina will admit of the laws of the Territory being extended over the
half-breeds at that place. It is said that there are hundreds of half-breed hunters on the
British side of the line, who are only waiting the extinction of the Indian title to change
their homes and allegiance. The assessed value of property in the five principal counties of
Minnesota is $805,417.48.

The returns of the Seventh Census will shortly be completed. A number of States have recently
sent in their full reports, among which are the following: New-York 3,099,000, being an increase
of 670,029 since 1840; Virginia 1,428,863, an increase of 189,066; Maryland 580,633, an increase
of 111,401; New Hampshire 317,999, an increase of 33,425; Missouri 681,547, an increase of
297,845; Ohio 1,981,940, an increase of 462,473; Kentucky 993,344, an increase of 213,516;
Indiana, 990,000; New Jersey 490,763, an increase of 117,874; and Wisconsin, 305,556. The entire
population of the United States in 1850 is estimated at 23,500,000.

A warrant for the arrest of Governor Quitman of Mississippi, for participation in the Cuban
Expedition, was issued by Judge Gholson in New Orleans, early in January. Governor Quitman
at first resisted the authority, but afterwards resigned his office as Governor, and on the
seventh of February reached New Orleans, under arrest. He appeared in court, and gave bail
for future appearance, asking a speedy trial.

Several diplomatic appointments have recently been made. Hon. Richard H. Bayard, who was appointed
Chargé d'Affaires to Belgium, has departed for his mission. Hon. Robert C. Schenck, of Ohio,
has been appointed Minister to Brazil, and Hon. J. S. Pendleton, of Virginia, Chargé d'Affaires
to New Grenada. The Chevalier Gomez, Special Envoy to Rome from the states of Guatemala and
San Salvador, has arrived at Washington, and assumed, provisionally, the office of Chargé from
those states. He has addressed a letter to the Secretary of State in relation to the present
condition of the Central American States.

General Mosquera, ex-President of New Grenada, is now travelling in this country, and was lately
in Washington, where he received distinguished attentions. General Paez, the distinguished
exile from Venezuela, is also in Washington. Dr. Frank Taylor, of Pennsylvania, who has recently
returned from Constantinople and Asia Minor, has received letters from the illustrious Kossuth,
addressed to the Secretary of State, and soliciting the intervention of the United States with
the Turkish Government, to procure the release of himself and his compatriots, and their transportation
to the United States. Mr. Webster immediately complied with the request, and has dispatched
instructions to Mr. Marsh, the American Minister at Constantinople, to procure from the Turkish
Government the release of the Hungarians.

The frigate St. Lawrence has sailed from New-York for Southampton, with articles for the World's
Fair. She carries out between four and five hundred articles, embracing nearly all branches
of manufacture, and the principal mineral and agricultural productions of the country. The
contributions are in charge of Charles F. Stansbury, Esq., agent of the Central Committee of
Washington. The tender of the authorities of Southampton, offering the use of that port, with
free transportation of the goods to Vauxhall, London, has been accepted by the Secretary of State.

There have been several serious wrecks, with loss of life, on the Atlantic coast and the Mississippi
river. The steamboat America, which left Wilmington, N.C., on the fourteenth of January, for
Mobile, foundered on the 29th. The schooner Champion, of Boston, picked up one boat's crew,
containing six men. A second boat, containing ten men, was picked up by the schooner Star,
and taken to Washington. A third boat, containing six men, has not been heard from. The steamer
John Adams, on her way from New Orleans to Cincinnati, struck on a snag in the Mississippi
river, on the morning of January 27th. The cabin parted from the hull, which went down in sixty
feet water. Out of 230 cabin and deck passengers, firemen, and crew, 123 were lost, of whom
82 were German and Irish emigrants, and returning Californians. On the ninth of February, the
steamer Autocrat, from New Orleans to Memphis, came in contact with the steamer Magnolia, coming
down the river, and sank instantly. Thirty lives were lost.

A calamitous fire took place at New Orleans, on the eighteenth of January, destroying the magnificent
St. Charles Hotel, together with two churches and several other buildings. The total loss is
about $500,000, less than half of which was covered by insurance. Jenny Lind arrived at New
Orleans from Havana on the 8th of February. Her reception was in the highest degree enthusiastic.
Her first concert took place on the 10th, the receipts therefrom amounting to $20,000. The
first ticket was purchased for $240 by a New Orleans hatter, the fortunate drawer of Powers'
Greek Slave in the Cincinnati Art Union.

Two more of the unfortunate Hungarian refugees have reached this city: Captain Eduard Becsey,
who served during the war as adjutant to General Bern, and Lieutenant Aurel Kiring. Captain
Becsey was taken prisoner by the Russians, and carried to Kiev, on the Dneiper, where he was
detained a year. After being released, he made his way to the Mediterranean, and obtained a
passage to New-York.

Our latest news from Eagle Harbor, the port of the mining region on Lake Superior, state that
the propeller Independence, which had just taken on board her last cargo of copper for the
season, was blown on shore by a heavy gale, and imbedded in the sand, where she must remain
till Spring. The Napoleon had arrived from Saut St. Mary, with provisions and stores for the
winter.

Texas papers of the thirty-first of January state that Judge Rollins, the United States Agent,
had effected a treaty with the Indians, providing for a cessation of hostilities, and the restoration
of all stolen property and prisoners. Lieuts. Smith and Mechler had completed a survey of the
Rio Grande from its mouth to a point about four hundred and fifty miles above Camargo. They
report that the river can be made navigable for boats of light draught to a short distance
above Loredo for several months in the year. Col. Anderson, of the corps of Topographical Engineers
has received orders to make a survey of the Brazos and Guadalupe rivers. A fight had occurred
between Lieutenant King, with seven men, of the Texan volunteers, and a body of Indians, who
were driving off a number of stolen horses. They were pursued for fifteen or twenty miles,
when they abandoned the horses, and escaped with the loss of three or four of their number.
The total vote on the Pierce Boundary Bill, as officially reported, is 9,250 ayes, 3,366 noes.

On the eighteenth of December the whole of the American Boundary Commission had arrived at
Paso del Norte, with the exception of an ox-train carrying supplies. The military escort, under
the command of Col. Craig, was encamped on the American side of the Rio del Norte, but was
soon to start for the copper-mines near the headwaters of the Gila. The Mexican Commissioner,
General Conde, with his escort, was quartered in the town of El Paso. Several conferences took
place between the Commissioners before they could agree on the starting-point for the boundary,
the existing maps being as inconsistent with the terms of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo as
with the topography of the country itself. The winter, throughout the valley of the Del Norte
has been very severe. The thermometer fell to six degrees at El Paso on the sixth of December,
and the Rio Grande was frozen over for the first time in the memory of the inhabitants.

The settlements of New Mexico are threatened with scarcity. On the tenth of January corn was
selling at three dollars the bushel, and vegetables not to be had at any price. The appearance
of the agents for taking the census of New-Mexico had occasioned great alarm among the pueblos
or villages. They feared that the account of their property was taken by the Government for
the purpose of extortion and seizure. The Apaches have committed no depredations of late, but
the Navajoes have broken their treaty by stealing several thousand sheep from the settlements
on the Rio del Norte.

In the Utah Territory the Mormons have temporarily settled the question of slavery, by leaving
it to the choice of the slaves themselves. If the slave chooses to leave his master, there
is no power to retain him; if he chooses to stay, no one is allowed to interfere.

Our news from California is to the first of January. The steamers Carolina and Columbus sailed
from San Francisco on that day, with 330 passengers and about $1,500,000 in gold dust. Business
was very dull, both in the ports and inland towns of California, and the trading communities
among the mines. The immense shipments of goods which had arrived from the Atlantic States
had produced a complete stagnation in the market, bringing many kinds of merchandise below
cost prices. After the first showers of the rainy season, early in December, the miners withdrew
to the dry diggings, when the rains ceased, and three or four weeks of clear and delightful
weather left them without employment. The richest localities are very thickly populated, the
miners having built themselves log-cabins and organized communities for the winter. On parts
of Feather river, the American Fork, and the Mokelumne, Tuolumne, and Mariposa rivers, the
diggings were still yielding a good return. New discoveries of rich veins of quartz-bearing
gold continue to be made. A mine of silver ore, of a very rich quality, is reported to have
been discovered in the neighborhood of Monterey. A company is being formed at that place for
the purpose of working the mine upon an extensive scale. The Sacramento papers state that a
large mine of lead, in an almost pure state, exists near Johnson's Ranche, about thirty miles
from that city. The ore is represented to lie on the surface of the earth, in heavy masses,
so that vast quantities could be obtained without sinking a shaft.

On the evening of December 14th another fire broke out in San Francisco, in a large zinc building
owned by Cooke, Baker & Co. By the exertions of the firemen and the citizens the conflagration
was subdued, after consuming this building and three or four others of less value. The large
building belonging to the Pacific Mail Steamship Company was in the utmost danger, having been
greatly scorched by the flames. The total loss by this fire was $75,000. The city, on the first
of January, was fully prepared for the rainy season. By the enterprise of the inhabitants,
upward of seven and a half miles of street had been graded and four miles planked, while capacious
piers and wharves were built far out into the bay, so that vessels were enabled to load and
unload without the use of lighters. The cholera had entirely disappeared, not only from San
Francisco, but from all parts of California. Its ravages have been much lighter than was anticipated,
a fact which speaks well for the health of the country.

The Pacific News contains some interesting statistics of the condition of San Francisco at
the close of the year 1850. The population of the city is estimated at 35,000. One hundred
and seven miles of street are already laid out, one quarter of which is built upon and occupied.
The business streets are substantially built of brick or iron. In addition to seventeen large
auction firms and eight express companies, the city boasts of ten first class hotels and seven
daily papers. The amount of gold-dust regularly shipped and entered for exportation during
the year 1850 was $30,000,000; the estimated amount taken away by passengers, $12,000,000.
The amount of bullion received was $1,722,600. The number of vessels which arrived during the
year was 1,743 bringing 35,333 male and 1,248 female passengers; the number of clearances amounts
to 1,461 vessels, carrying away 26,593 male and eight female passengers. The total value of
the merchandise received by foreign and domestic vessels during the year was between four and
five millions of dollars. In addition to 14 steamers running regularly between San Francisco
and Panama, and three on the Oregon route, there are 45 steamers and 270 other craft of various
kinds on the bay and inland streams.

We have news from Oregon to the middle of December, at which time the Legislature was in session.
The message of Governor Gaines recommends the establishment of a liberal system of education,
and asks for the passage of a law for protection against the Indian tribes. It also maintains
the importance of a liberal policy on the part of the General Government in the donation of
lands to actual settlers. The country appears to be in a highly prosperous condition; all the
towns on the Columbia and its tributaries are growing rapidly. The news from the gold placers
on the Klamath and Umpqua rivers, near the borders of California, is encouraging as to the
yield of dust, but the Oregonians place their main reliance on their agricultural interests.
The yield of wheat is said to be not only double per acre that of the Atlantic States, but
it is a never-failing crop. The people in Oregon City are agitating the subject of a railroad
to connect the Willamette Valley with the Columbia river, at some point accessible to large
vessels. It is estimated that the whole cost will only be about $500,000, which it is proposed
to raise in one thousand shares of $500 each. Twelve months, it is believed, will complete
the work.

EUROPE.

On the first of February, England was in a tranquil condition, the anti-Papal agitation having
almost entirely subsided. The journals were engaged in discussing law reform, the New-York
Revised Code being commended as a model in many quarters. In the Queen's speech at the opening
of Parliament--an advance copy having been forwarded to this country--a thorough reform of
the Equity courts is recommended, as well as the introduction of an act for the registration
of deeds, equally applicable to each of the three kingdoms. Her Majesty alludes in terms of
comparative mildness to the Wiseman affair, commending the question to the attention of Parliament.
Public opinion is strongly in favor of a large reduction in taxation, and it is anticipated
that the window tax will be abolished. The quarterly returns of the revenue have been highly
satisfactory, since, notwithstanding the abolition of the tax on bricks and the reduction of
the stamp duty, the income exceeds that of the previous year by about £165,000.

The great crystal palace in Hyde Park is rapidly advancing towards its completion. The immense
structure is exciting the wonder and admiration of the metropolis, and the opening of the fair
is anticipated with great interest. The strength of the building has been amply tested by a
severe storm of hail and wind, which passed over without breaking a pane of glass. All quarters
of the world are sending specimens of their manufactures and natural productions. South Africa,
Australia, and the islands of the sea will be represented, while Cashmere shawls, robes of
pearl, and Runjeet Singh's golden saddle, will be sent from India.

The U.S. Mail steamer Atlantic, which sailed from Liverpool on the twenty-eighth of December,
arrived in the harbor of Cork on the twenty-second of January, having been at sea twenty-five
days. When in lat. 46° 12', lon. 41° 30', about midway between Cape Clear and New-York, her
main shaft broke, rendering the engines useless. After running westward two days under sail,
a heavy gale arose, when Captain West put her head about, and made for Cork, a distance of
1400 miles, which she made in eleven days. The steamer Cambria was instantly chartered to take
her place, but most of her passengers left Liverpool in the Africa, on February 1st. It is
stated on the authority of Earl Monteagle, that the British Government have resolved to make
Holyhead the port of arrival and departure for the transatlantic mail steamers.

In France, a ministerial revolution has taken place, resulting in widening the breach between
President Napoleon and the National Assembly. Several general orders of General Changarnier
to the army of Paris having been published in one of the journals, in which he commands the
troops to pay no attention to any orders but those of the Lieutenant-General. Changarnier was
called upon in the Assembly for explanation. He denied that these instructions were meant to
be permanent, but only to be put in force when an emeute was apprehended. His conduct was approved
by the Assembly, but Louis Napoleon, who had long regarded Changarnier with fear and jealousy,
withdrew from him the command of the army at Paris, which he divided between two or three generals
of lower rank. This gave rise to a most excited debate in the National Assembly, in which Lamartine
made a speech in the President's defence. Baroche, Minister of the Interior, General Changarnier,
M. Thiers, and General Cavaignac followed, the three latter speakers taking strong ground against
the ministry. After several days of stormy discussion, the resolution of M. de St. Beuve, that
the Assembly "declares that it has no confidence in the ministry," was carried by a majority
of 139. The ministers tendered their resignation to the President the same evening. A ministerial
interregnum followed, which was terminated on the twenty-fourth of January by a message of
the President, appointing a "transition ministry," composed of employées from the different
departments, not one of them having a seat in the Assembly. The following is the list, as given
in the Moniteur:

    Public Instruction            M. Giraud, (de l'Institute.)
    Interior                      M. Vaisse.
    Foreign Affairs               M. Brennier.
    War                           General Randon.
    Marine                        Admiral Levaillant.
    Commerce                      M. Schneider.
    Finances                      M. de Germiny.
    Public Works                  M. Magne.
    Justice                       M. de Royer.

Lamartine, it is stated, was urged by Louis Napoleon to accept an appointment in the ministry,
but declined on account of his being bound to furnish his publishers with two volumes a month,
under heavy penalties.

The Conference of the German States at Dresden was opened with much ceremony early in January.
All the states were represented, but the negotiations were kept profoundly secret. It has transpired,
however, that the formation of the new Diet agreed upon gives two votes to Prussia, two to
Austria, one each to Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover, and Wurtemberg, and three more portioned among
the smaller principalities, making eleven in all. It is also understood that a Provisional
Central Power will be proclaimed, Prussia and Austria retaining to themselves exclusively the
right of deciding for the Confederation all questions of peace and war.

Austria still labors under financial embarrassments of an almost hopeless character. As a measure
of temporary relief, the Government has contracted two loans, one from Russia, of fifty millions
of florins, and the other, of one hundred millions, on state obligations, at six per cent.
The manufacturers of Austria strongly oppose the proposed compromise of the Zollverein, and
advocate a tariff of a decidedly protective character. Great dissatisfaction has been manifested
in Hungary, on account of the newly imposed tax on tobacco, which is one of the principal productions
of the country. In consequence of this opposition the excise corps has been greatly enlarged,
and serious difficulties are apprehended.

The smaller German states are now completely overruled by the Austrian and Prussian troops.
The Elector of Hesse Cassel has returned to his Capital, with his Prime Minister, Hassenpflug,
under their protection. The Constitution is virtually abolished by their presence, and those
who supported it are subjected to the most shameful persecutions. Many of the best citizens
are obliged to leave the country. Schleswig Holstein has been 'pacified' in a similar manner.
Through the instrumentality of the Austrian and Prussian Commissioners, backed by a military
force, the army of Schleswig Holstein has been disbanded, and the country occupied by the troops
of Denmark. On the sixteenth of January, the proclamation of the King of Denmark, administering
the oath of fidelity to the military, was read in the marketplace of Rendsburg. Hamburgh has
been occupied by 4000 Austrian troops.

A treaty of amity and commerce has been concluded with the Swiss Diet, by Mr. Dudley Mann,
Diplomatic Agent of the United States. Its provisions are of the most liberal and friendly
character. The entire reciprocity and equality of the citizens of both countries, is guaranteed,
so far as the right of establishment is concerned; a citizen of the United States being allowed
to settle in one of the Swiss Cantons upon the same conditions as a citizen born in another
Canton. Entire and unconditional liberty in disposing of property is mutually stipulated, as
well as equal taxation of the individuals established, their exemption from military duties,
and the grant of indemnity for damages in case of war. The commercial intercourse of the two
countries is also arranged upon the most liberal and advantageous basis. Switzerland has remained
tranquil, with the exception of a riot in the Canton of Berne, occasioned by the attempted
extradition, on the part of the Government, of a Prussian Jew, a noted socialist, residing
at St. Imier. This person was very popular among the poor, who resisted the authorities, whereupon
the troops were ordered to be in readiness to support them. The Swiss Government has determined
to forward a beautiful stone from the Alps, to be placed in the National Monument to Washington.

ITALY is still in an unquiet state. There seems to be a growing apprehension and uneasiness
among all classes in the Papal States, and it is rumored that Pope Pius, wearied with the anxieties
of his situation, wishes to resign the Pontificate, and retire to a Convent.

In NAPLES, the Government, alarmed by rumors of Mazzini's revolutionary designs, has made many
arrests, and instituted a more vigorous police system. All cafes and places of public amusement
are strictly watched. The army is to be increased by 18,000 men, and as English opinions are
assigned to be dangerous, those Neapolitans who intended to visit the Great Exhibition in London,
have been refused their passports.

AUSTRIAN ITALY is even in a worse condition. Several conspiracies have been discovered, and
a large number of arrests made in consequence. A large number of persons have been executed,
in the Lombardo-Venetian provinces.

The most interesting news from SPAIN is that of another resignation of the Ministry. The resignation
of General Narvaez was not accepted by the Queen, whereupon that gentleman assembled his colleagues,
and commissioned them to inform the Queen that unless she released him at once from his office,
he should blow his brains out! This threat had the desired effect, and the following Cabinet
was then appointed:

    President of the Council and Minister of Finance   Bravo Murillo.
    Foreign Office                                     Bertran de Lys.
    Grace and Justice                                  Gonzales Romero.
    Home Department                                    Arteta.
    War                                                Count Mirasol.
    Marine                                             Bustillos.
    Commerce, &c.                                      Fernandez Negrete.

The project of a revision of the Constitution, which has been so warmly agitated in Sweden,
has entirely failed. The proposition of the King has been rejected by two of the four chambers
constituting the Legislative Assembly, three being required in its favor, to form a constitutional
majority. Sweden will therefore preserve her present system of a separate representation of
the nobility, clergy, citizens, and peasants.

In TURKEY, the subjection of the rebellious Bosnians was consummated on the seventeenth of
December, when Omar Pasha made his triumphal entry into Bosna Serai. The captive Pashas and
Cadis marched on foot in the procession. It is rumored that the Porte has at length agreed
to accept the offer of the British and American Governments to transport the Hungarian refugees
to America, and will order their immediate release. Three hundred Polish refugees, who arrived
at Constantinople from Varna, on the thirty-first of December, were to be sent to Liverpool
at the expense of the Turkish Government. Two Commissioners, Ismet Pasha and Sami Pasha, have
been appointed to travel through Asiatic and European Turkey, for the purpose of noting whether
the new reforms in favor of the Christians have been carried out.

There is nothing from GREECE, but accounts of the depredations of the robbers which now infest
all parts of the country. In the provinces of Acarnania, Levadia and Attica, several villages
have been sacked, and the inhabitants put to the torture.

MEXICO

The Mexican Congress assembled in the Capital on the first of January, when General Herrera,
the President, made his annual address. He dwelt with satisfaction on the relations existing
between the United States and Mexico, considering them much more harmonious and mutually advantageous
than was anticipated at the close of the war. The financial condition of the country has been
somewhat improved by the retrenchment of the Government expenses and the consolidation of the
Interior Debt: a revision of the Revenue Laws is strongly advocated as a still further reform
in this direction. President Herrera favors the colonization of the public lands by immigrants
from Europe; he also alludes with satisfaction to the increase of manufactures and the improved
prospects of the silver mines, which last year yielded upwards of $30,000,000.

The two branches of Congress met on the eighth, to count the votes for the election of the
President of the Republic. The votes of twelve States were found to be in favor of General
Arista. He was consequently declared to be duly elected. On the fifteenth, in the Chamber of
Deputies, in the presence of the Mexican Congress, he took the oath of office and made a short
inaugural address, in which he alluded to the maintenance of the federal system as necessary
to the prosperity of the country, and pledged himself to preserve peace and order at all hazards.
The President of Congress, Don Mariano Yañez, replied in a short address of congratulation.
Te Deum was chanted in the Cathedral in the presence of the new President, and in the evening
the German residents honored him with a serenade and torch light procession. Arista's Cabinet
is composed as follows: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Don Mariano Yañez; Minister of Justice,
Don Jose Maria Aguirre; Minister of Finance, Don Manuel Payno; Minister of War and Marine,
Don Manuel Robles.

Early in January a rebellion broke out in the State of Guanajuato. The insurgents, headed by
two brothers named Liceagas, obtained possession of the city of Guanajuato, with the Government
arms and ammunition, but were defeated on the night of the 13th by the Government troops under
Generals Bustamente and Uraga. Several of the chiefs were executed, and the movement, which
was in favor of Santa Anna, was entirely crushed.

The Tehuantepec treaty was ratified on the 25th of January. On the following day, Mr. Letcher,
the American Minister, left the capital for the United States, on leave of absence. Señor Lacunza,
the Ex-Minister of Foreign Affairs, has been appointed Minister to England, and Señor Valdiviesco
Minister to France. The Mexican Government has ceded in perpetuity to Don Gayetano Rubio, Don
Eustace Barron, Señor Garay, and the firm of Yecker, Torre & Co., the whole of the public lands
in the State of Sonora, including the mines, between lat. 30° N. and the Gila River. This grant
embraces several millions of acres, and the richest mineral land of the Republic. It is said
to have been intended to smooth the passage of a bill abolishing all tariff prohibitions, which
have hitherto operated greatly to the advantage of the parties named.

Maj. Barnard's Company for surveying the Isthmus of Tehuantepec reached the town of Minatitlan,
on the Coatzocoalcos River, in the steamer Alabama, on the 25th of December. At the last accounts,
one party had penetrated a distance of sixty miles into the country, a second was engaged in
an examination of the river, and a third had set out for Tehuantepec, on the Pacific Coast.

BRITISH AMERICA.

The lawyers in Lower Canada have been making strikes and holding meetings to protest against
the imposition of the new tariff regulating their fees. The Bar of Quebec and of Trois Rivières
have struck, declining to serve their clients until the legality of the tariff shall be decided
by the Court of Appeals. It has been decided to admit American reprints of English copyright
works into Canada, on paying 20 per cent. duty, which is to be paid over by the Custom House
to the English authors or proprietors of copyright, who are required to furnish a list of their
works. Under this law, American reprints will still be much cheaper than English editions,
and popular English authors may therefore look forward to some increase of their revenue. The
Imperial Cabinet has also assented to the Post-Office Law, enacted at the last Session of the
Canadian Legislature, and establishing a uniform rate of three pence for single letters throughout
the British Provinces.

Meetings have been held in Toronto, protesting against the intended removal of the Seat of
Government from that city, while, on the other hand, the French members have resolved not to
vote the supplies unless it is removed to Quebec in the spring. Lord Elgin, however, has stated
that the Seat of Government will be transferred to Quebec at the completion of its two years
in Toronto.

THE WEST INDIES.

We have news from Havana to the 3d of February. The administration of Gen. Concha appears to
be more liberal and energetic than that of his predecessor, and gives very general satisfaction.

Jenny Lind gave but four concerts in Havana, only the first and last of which were well attended.
Her Italian songs produced much more effect than her Swedish ballads. The proceeds of the last
concert, amounting to $5000, was devoted to objects of charity. A grand ball was given in her
honor by the Count de Peñalver, after which she visited Matanzas and the extensive sugar plantations
in its neighborhood. Señor Salvi, the great tenor, was engaged by Mr. Barnum to sing at her
concerts in New-York, in April. On the 1st February, Frederika Bremer reached Havana, and the
two renowned Swedes met, for the first time in the new world.

News from Jamaica to the 1st of February state that the cholera was still prevailing in many
localities, although it had decreased in some and entirely disappeared in others.

CENTRAL AMERICA--THE ISTHMUS.

In the State of Nicaragua, the elections have taken place and Don José Sacasa has been chosen
Director, from the 1st of May, on which the term of Director Raminez expires. The National
Convention of Delegates from the States of Nicaragua, Honduras and San Salvador, met at Chinandega
on the 21st of December, and organized by choosing as President Don José Barrundia, the author
of the Central-American Constitution of 1820. The little steamer Director, belonging to the
Nicaraguan Company, passed the rapids of Machuca, on San Juan River, and entered Lake Nicaragua
on the 1st of January. She is now running between Granada and San Carlos, a distance of 95
miles, at $20 a passenger. The engineers employed to survey the route of the proposed ship
canal, were at work between Granada and San Juan del Sur, on the Pacific. By the 1st of January,
upwards of four thousand returning Californians had passed through Nicaragua, on their way
to the United States.

Disturbances have broken out in some of the mountain provinces of Guatemala, growing out of
the refusal of the inhabitants to concur in the policy adopted by the Government at the instance
of the English consul, Mr. Chatfield. The insurgents declared in favor of a Federal Union of
all the Central-American States. The Government troops, under Gen. Carrera, in attempting to
put down this opposition, were defeated at Chiquimula. A blockade of the ports of San Salvador
has been ordered by Mr. Chatfield, who threatens Honduras and Nicaragua with a similar blow,
unless they accede to certain demands. In a letter to the Nicaraguan Minister of Foreign Affairs,
he arbitrarily lays down the boundary line between Honduras, Nicaragua and Musquitia--an assumed
kingdom, under cover of which the British authorities have taken possession of the port of
San Juan. Mr. Chatfield states that unless these boundaries are accepted, no canal or other
improved method of transit across the Isthmus can be established. There is much excitement
in Central America, on account of his arbitrary course.

The winter rains are at an end on the Isthmus of Panama, and the roads are in good condition.
Upwards of 800 workmen are employed on the Panama Railroad, and the track is already prepared
for the rails from Navy Bay, the Atlantic terminus, to Gatun, on the Chagres River, a distance
of three and a half miles.

SOUTH AMERICA.

The Congress of VENEZUELA met on 20th of January, all the members being present. It had previously
been feared that the Executive Power would be violently seized by Guzman, Vice-President of
the Republic, who was one of the unsuccessful candidates in the electoral colleges, in case
there should not be a quorum in Congress. Gen. Monagas, brother of the present Executive, lacked
only two or three votes of the two-thirds required by the Constitution in the electoral colleges,
and having received sixty-five out of the eighty votes of Congress, was declared elected President
of Venezuela. Guzman, who had used all his power to defeat Monagas, notwithstanding he was
indebted to the latter for his life, met him upon the steps of the Government House after the
election, and begged pardon, in tears, for the injuries he had done him. Monagas forgave him,
and the happiest results for Venezuela are anticipated from an administration commenced under
such circumstances.

The Presidential Election in PERU took place on the 20th of December. The prominent candidates
were Generals Echinique and San Ramon, and at the last accounts it was believed the former
was elected.

BOLIVIA is entirely tranquil, the health of Gen. Belzu having been completely restored since
his attempted assassination, and the conspirators against him, Ballivian and Linares, having
fled from the country. The partisans of Ballivian were totally routed in the southern provinces,
where they attempted to make a stand, and their leader fled in disguise to Copiape, in Chili.
Linares escaped into the Argentine Republic, and a requisition for his delivery was about to
be issued.

In CHILI, the extra session of Congress convened on the 16th of December. In his message calling
the session, the President recommended to legislative attention, the subjects of reform in
the customs and the coinage system, appropriations for the current year, the regulation of
the standing army, and a revision of the taxes.

Early in December a destructive fire broke out in Valparaiso, which was finally quelled through
the labors of the sailors from the English and French vessels of war lying in the harbor, after
destroying $250,000 worth of property. On the 5th of the month, the volcano of Portillo, near
Santiago, which had been quiet since 1845, suddenly broke out into violent eruption. The following
day a very severe shock of an earthquake was felt, lasting twenty seconds, but fortunately
doing little damage. Since then, however, a more violent earthquake has entirely destroyed
the city of Conception, in the southern part of Chili.

Hon. Bailey Peyton, the American Minister, left Valparaiso on the 27th of December, in the
U.S. Ship Vincennes, on a visit to Talcuhuana, the province of Conception and the island of
Juan Fernandez. Henri Herz, the distinguished pianist, has been giving concerts in Santiago.

At the latest dates from BRAZIL, nothing of political importance had transpired. Accounts from
Buenos Ayres to Dec. 12th, state that there was a prospect of an amicable settlement of the
difficulties between that country and Brazil. There had been a conflict between the forces
of Paraguay and those of Buenos Ayres, relative to the occupancy of some neutral lands, by
the forces of the latter. The finances of the State were said to be in an encouraging condition.

AFRICA.

The Monitor, a paper published at Cape Town, South Africa, gives an account of a dreadful massacre
committed by the noted Namagua chief, Yonker Afrikaner, on the neophytes of the German Missionary
station at New-Barmen, in Damaraland, between South Africa and the Kingdom of Loango.

A curious piece of history has made its way to us from the island of Madagascar. Rainharo,
the Prime Minister of the reigning Queen of the island, determined, in June last, to exterminate
all the Christians in the province of Imirena. Accordingly, when they were all assembled one
evening at their religious exercises, the various communities were suddenly arrested, to the
number of eight thousand, and condemned to death. Eighteen of them had already been executed,
when the rest escaped, and surrounding the palace of the young Prince, the heir to the throne
of Madagascar, implored his protection. The Queen sent orders through the Prime Minister that
they should be given up. The Prince refused, and in the dispute which followed, drew his sword
and aimed a blow at the Minister's head, cutting off one of his ears. When the Queen heard
of this, fearing a revolt in the province of Imirena, to sustain the Prince, she suffered the
Christians to return to their homes and worship as usual. They have since been visited by the
Prince, who declares his intention to protect them.

The Republic of LIBERIA was in a flourishing condition at the commencement of the year. Several
explorations of the interior have been made, to the distance of two or three hundred miles
from the coast. The parties brought back enthusiastic accounts of the richness and beauty of
the country and the salubrity of the climate. President Roberts had sent his message to the
Liberian Congress, giving a very favorable account of the condition and prospects of the country.
The agricultural operations at Bassa Cove and Bexley have produced very satisfactory results.
The slave trade is said to be almost destroyed in the neighborhood of Gallinas and Ambrize.

Recent Deaths.

THE REV. WALTER COLTON was born in Rutland, Vermont, about the year 1797. When sixteen years
of age he determined to acquire a liberal education, and commenced with industrious energy
his preparatory studies. In 1818 he entered Yale College, where he received the Berkleyan Prize
in Latin and Greek, and delivered the valedictory poem, when he graduated, in 1822. He soon
afterwards entered the Theological Seminary at Andover, where he remained three years, giving
much of his tune to literature, and writing, besides various moral and critical dissertations,
a Sacred Drama, which was acted by the students at one of their rhetorical exhibitions, and
an elaborate poem pronounced when his class received their diplomas. On being ordained an evangelist,
according to the usage of the Congregational Church, he became Professor of Moral Philosophy
and Belles-Lettres in the Scientific and Military Academy at Middletown, then under the presidency
of Captain Alden Partridge. Besides attending to the more immediate duties of his position,
he wrote while here a prize Essay on Duelling; a Discussion of the Genius of Coleridge; The
Moral Power of the Poet, Painter, and Sculptor, contrasted, and many contributions in verse
and prose to the public journals, under the signature of "Bertram." In 1828 he resigned his
professorship, and settled in Washington, as editor of the American Spectator, a weekly gazette
which he conducted with industry, and such tact and temper, that he preserved the most intimate
relations with the leaders of the political party to which it was most decidedly opposed. He
was especially a favorite with President Jackson, who was accustomed to send for him two or
three times in a week to sit with him in his private chamber, and when Mr. Colton's health
declined, so that a sea voyage was recommended by his physicians, the President offered him
without solicitation a consulship or a chaplaincy in the Navy. The latter was accepted, and
from 1830 till the end of his life, he continued as a chaplain in the naval service.

His first appointment was to the West India squadron, where his reputation was increased by
several incidents illustrative of his personal character. On one occasion a murderous affray
had taken place between a boat's crew of American sailors and a party of Spaniards belonging
to Pensacola, in which several sailors were killed. Mr. Colton drew up the official report
of the outrage, in which he handled the police with just severity. The mayor, himself a Spaniard,
and a man of desperate character, was greatly enraged, and swore he would take ample vengeance.
He watched his opportunity, and attempted to rush on the chaplain with his long knife before
he could protect himself. But the latter, drawing his pistols at the instant, levelled one
of them at his breast, and told the mayor if he stirred his hand except to return his knife
to its belt, he would put a ball through his heart. The Spaniard hesitated for a few minutes,
and reluctantly complied.

Returning from the West Indies Mr. Colton was appointed to the Constellation frigate, and sailed
for the Mediterranean, and in the three years during which he was connected with this station,
he travelled through Spain, Italy, Greece, and Asia Minor; visited Constantinople, and made
his way to Paris and London. The results of his observations he partially gave to the public
in volumes entitled Ship and Shore, and A Visit to Constantinople and Athens. Soon after the
publication of these works, he was appointed Historiographer to the South Sea Surveying and
Exploring Expedition; but the ultimate reduction of the force designed for the Pacific squadron,
and the resignation of his associates, induced him to forego the advantages of this office,
for which he had made very careful preparations in ethnographical studies.

He was now stationed at Philadelphia, where he was chaplain successively of the Navy Yard and
of the Naval Asylum. In this city we became acquainted with him, and for several years enjoyed
his frequent society and intimate friendship, so that few have had more ample opportunities
of judging of his character. In 1841 and 1842, with the consent of the Government, he added
to his official duties the editorship of the Philadelphia North American, and in these and
the following years he wrote much upon religious and literary subjects for other journals.
We believe it was in 1844 that he delivered before the literary societies of the University
of Vermont, a poem entitled The Sailor, which has not yet been published. In the summer of
1846 he was married, and we were selected by him for that occasion to fill the office commonly
falling to the nearest friend. A few months afterward he was ordered to the Congress, the flag-ship
of the Pacific squadron, in which he arrived off the western coast of America soon after the
commencement of the late war with Mexico. The incidents of the voyage round Cape Horn are detailed
with more than his usual felicity in his book, Deck and Port, published last summer in this
city by Barnes & Co.

Soon after the arrival of the squadron at Monterey, he was appointed alcalde, or chief magistrate
of that city, an office of difficult duties and large responsibilities, demanding the most
untiring industry, zeal, and fortitude. These were discharged with eminent faithfulness and
ability, so that he won as much the regard of the conquered inhabitants of the country, as
the respect of his more immediate associates. In addition to the ordinary duties of his place,
Mr. Colton established the first newspaper printed in California, The Californian, now published
in San Francisco, under the title of the "Alta California;" he built the first school-house
in California; and also a large hall for public meetings--said to be the finest building in
the state, which the citizens called "Colton Hall," in honor of his public spirit and enterprise.
It was during his administration of affairs at Monterey that the discovery of gold in the Sacramento
Valley was first made; and, considering the vast importance which this discovery has since
assumed, it may not be uninteresting to state that the honor of first making it publicly known
in the Atlantic States, whether by accident or otherwise, belongs properly to him. It was first
announced in a letter bearing his initials, which appeared in the Philadelphia North American,
and the next day in a letter also written by him, in the New-York Journal of Commerce.

Mr. Colton returned to his home early last summer, with anticipations of years of undisturbed
happiness. With a family deeply attached to him, a large circle of friends, good reputation,
and a fortune equal to his desires, he applied himself leisurely to the preparation of his
MS. journals for the press, and the revision of his earlier publications. He had published,
besides Deck and Port, already mentioned, Three Years in California, and had nearly ready for
the printer a much enlarged and improved edition of Ship and Shore, which was to be followed
by A Visit to Constantinople, Athens, and the Ægean, a collection of his Poems, and a volume
of Miscellanies of Literature and Religion. His health however began to decline, and a cold,
induced by exposure during a late visit to Washington, ended in granular dropsy, which his
physician soon discovered to be incurable. Being in Philadelphia on the 22d of January, we
left our hotel to pay him an early visit, and found the death signs upon his door; he had died
at two o'clock that morning, surrounded by his relations, and in the presence of his friends
the Rev. Albert Barnes and the Rev. Dr. Herman Hooker--died very calmly, without mortal enemies
and at peace with God.

Mr. Colton was of an eminently genial nature, fond of society, and with such qualities as made
him always a welcome associate. His extensive and various travel had left upon his memory a
thousand delightful pictures, which were reflected in his conversation so distinctly and with
such skilful preparation of the mind, that his companions lived over his life with him as often
as he chose to summon its scenes before them. We believe him to have been very sincere in all
the professions of honor and religion, and fully deserving of the respectful regrets with which
he will be remembered during the lives of his contemporaries.

AUGUSTE D'AVEZAC, descended from an illustrious French family, was born in the island of St.
Domingo, about the year 1787. He was educated at the celebrated college of La Flèche, in France;
emigrated to the United States; studied medicine at Edenton, North Carolina; and on the acquisition
of Louisiana removed to New Orleans. Here his sister was married to Chancellor Livingston,
and he himself became a successful lawyer. When General Jackson arrived in New Orleans, d'Avezac
became one of his aid-de-camps, and he served with him to the end of the war, and remained
all his life among his most devoted friends. When General Jackson became President he appointed
Major d'Avezac Chargé d'Affaires to Naples, and afterwards to the Netherlands, whence he was
recalled by Mr. Van Buren, but under circumstances which did not prevent his hearty support
of the President's administration. He then took up his residence in New-York, and in 1841 and
1843 was elected from this city to the Legislature. In 1845, he was appointed Chargé d'Affaires
to the Hague, and he remained there until superseded last year by Mr. Folsom, when he again
returned to New-York, where he died on the 16th ultimo. He was an eminently agreeable man in
society, and wrote in French and English with ease and vivacity, upon literature, art, politics,
and history.

At the Hague, a cortège of upwards of three thousand persons have just accompanied to the grave,
at the premature age of forty-two, M. ASSER, a judge of high reputation in that city, and author
of various works on comparative legislation.

France has lost one of her geographical celebrities, M. PIERRE LAPIE, from whose hand have
issued a multitude of valuable maps.

DR. HEINRICH FREDERICK LINK, Professor of Botany in the University of Berlin, and Director
of the Royal Botanic Garden of that city, died on the first of January, in the eighty-second
year of his age. His literary career extends back for more than half a century, his first botanical
essay, consisting of some observations on the plants of the Botanic Garden at Rostock, having
been published in 1795. He was contemporary with Linnæus, having been eighteen years old when
the great author of the "Systema Naturæ" died, and, from his botanical tastes, was probably
acquainted with that naturalist's writings long before his decease.

He graduated at Gottingen in 1789, having read on that occasion an inaugural thesis on the
Flora of Gottingen, referring more particularly to those found in calcareous districts. Shortly
afterwards he was appointed Professor of Botany at Rostock; subsequently he held the same chair
at Breslau; but the latter and larger portion of his scientific life was spent at Berlin. He
practised at Berlin as a physician among an extensive circle of friends, who had a high opinion
of his medical skill. Although the name of Link fills a large space in the literature of botany,
his mind was not of the highest order, and his contributions to science are not likely to make
a very permanent impression. Still, he was an energetic, active man, with an observant mind,
a retentive memory, and with considerable power of systematic arrangement. Hence his works,
like those of Linnæus, have been among the most valuable of the contributions to the botany
of the century in which he lived. Of these, his "Elementa Philosophiæ Botanicæ" may be quoted
as the most useful. This work, which was published in 1824, has served as the basis of most
of our manuals and introductions to botany since that period. He devoted considerable time
and attention to the description of new species of plants, most of which he published in a
continuation of Willdenow's "Species Plantarum." With Count Hoffmansegg, he commenced a Flora
of Portugal, and he also published a memoir on the plants of Greece. He contributed several
valuable papers on physiological botany to the Transactions of the Natural History Society
of Berlin; but he has done more service for vegetable physiology in his annual reports than
in any other of his writings. They comprise a summary of all that had been published in botany
during the year, accompanied with many valuable remarks and sound criticisms of his own. In
these reports he had to defend himself and others from the heavy artillery directed against
them by Schleiden, who, whilst claiming for himself a large margin for liberty of opinion,
is most unscrupulous and pertinaciously offensive towards those who differ from him. In these
literary contests, however, Link showed that the experience of above fifty years had not been
lost upon him, and he was not unfrequently more than a match for the vigor and logic of his
youthful and more precipitate adversary. According to custom, a funeral oration was pronounced
over his grave; but unfortunately the clergyman selected being a strictly orthodox person,
and not being able to approve of the spirit of the whole of the writings of the deceased, censured
them, it is said, in most unbecoming language, to the indignation of the numerous friends present.

The Italian poet LUIGI CARRER, died at Venice on the twenty-third of December.

GENERAL DON JOSE DE SAN MARTIN, formerly the "Protector of Peru," and one of the most deservedly
eminent of the public men of the Spanish American States, died in August, 1850, at Bologna,
in the seventy-second year of his age. His death has but recently been announced, and we receive
the information now, not from Europe or from South America, but by way of the Sandwich Islands.
The Honolulu Polynesian of December fourteenth, translating from the Panameno, gives us the
following particulars of his life. General San Martin was a native of one of the Provinces
of Buenos Ayres, but previous to the war of independence, passed over to Spain, where he entered
into the army, and distinguished himself at the battle of Baylen. In the Spanish army, he rose
to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. After his native country, Buenos Ayres, had declared itself
independent of the mother country, he returned from Spain, and fought with great bravery, against
Artigas, and in other military contests. He thereby gained so much reputation with his countrymen,
that when an expedition to liberate Chile was determined upon, he was the chief chosen to organize
and command it. He fulfilled that trust, in an admirable manner, at Mendoza--carried his small
army successfully across the Andes, through an able piece of strategy, confided to a brave
young Chilian, Don Manuel Rodriguez, at a point where the Spanish forces did not expect the
invading army, and signally defeated them, on the plains of Chacabuco, near the Capital of
Chile. The defeated Spaniards had to retire and concentrate themselves in the South. San Martin
occupied the whole country and shut them up in Talcachuano. Expecting that the Spaniards would
be soon reinforced from Peru, San Martin, with the aid of several foreign officers, French
and English, recruited his forces in Chile, and raised his army to about 9000 men. A strong
reinforcement having arrived from Peru, at Talcahuano, under the command of General Ossioro,
the Spaniards regained possession of the Province of Concepcion, took the offensive, and advanced
towards the Capital. San Martin, with forces numerically superior, advanced to drive them back.
The two armies met at "Cancha Rayada," where, on San Martin's birth day, in 1819, the Spaniards
attacked his army at night, signally defeated and dispersed them. The only division that retired
unbroken, was that commanded by General Don Gregorio de las Heras, and the army of the Andes
left on the field its whole artillery, excepting only one piece which was saved by the personal
exertions and cool intrepidity of Captain Miller, of that army, now H. B. M. Consul General
for these Islands. After that unexpected defeat, the greatest consternation prevailed in the
Capital of Chile, the cause of the Republic was considered desperate, but the Supreme Director,
General Don Bernardo Ohiggins, made immense exertions to reunite the scattered army and to
strengthen it, by new levies; the patriotism of the Chilians roused itself with an energy equal
to the emergency; resident foreign merchants, wishing well to the country and alarmed by a
report that it was the intention of the Spanish Commander in Chief to shoot them all and confiscate
their property (it being then contrary to the laws of Spain that foreigners should reside in
or trade with her Colonies without special license), supplied money, arms and accoutrements.
An army was thus reformed with extraordinary expedition; its confidence was restored by a troop
of cavalry sent to reconnoitre, headed by Major Vial, a brave French officer, who gallantly
charged and routed a superior force of the enemy, and, under the command of General San Martin,
on the 5th of April, 1850, on the plain of Maypu, it defeated the Spanish army so completely,
that only a few of the fugitives reached Talcahuano.

But experience having shown that the independence of Chile could never be considered secure
so long as the Spaniards retained their hold on Peru, it was resolved to make an attempt to
liberate that Vice-Royalty. Colonel Miller, whose promotion after the affair of Cancha Rayadu
had been rapid, was sent with a small but active force to land at Arica and operate in the
Southern Provinces, where by astute strategy and several brilliant successes he confirmed his
high reputation. San Martin soon after followed with the main army, escorted by the Chilian
squadron under command of Lord Cochran; in running down the coast, he took in Colonel Miller
with his troops, and knowing the powerful diversion that the latter had made in the South,
he proceeded northward to Pisco, where a force was landed under the command of Colonel Charles
and Colonel Miller, that made itself master of the place, after a bloody combat, in which the
former gallantly fell while cheering on his troops, and the latter received several musket
balls, one of which passed through his liver.

According to the plan of General San Martin, the force landed to the South of Lima, advanced
into the interior to the silver mines of Pasco under the command of General Arenales, where
it defeated the Spanish forces under General Oreilly, while San Martin himself, with the main
body, effected his landing near Huacho to the North of Lima. By this plan, ably conceived and
no less ably executed, the Spaniards were reduced to the Capital and Callao, which port at
the same time was strictly blockaded by Lord Cochran's squadron. The fall of both Lima and
Callao was only a question of time; it was retarded for some months owing to the great sickness
that weakened San Martin's ranks; but these were filled up by desertions from the enemy; the
whole regiment of Numancia passed over to the Patriot side, and at last San Martin entered
the Capital at the head of his troops, amidst the acclamations of the inhabitants. He was soon
after declared Protector of Peru, and General-in-Chief of the Army. Having now a Peruvian character,
and having come to liberate--not to conquer the country, he considered it right to create a
Peruvian Army. As a nucleus for its formation, the Peruvian Legion (intended to consist of
several Batallions), was raised, and placed under the command of Colonel Miller. But Lima and
its luxuries proved the Capua of San Martin's army--national jealousies arose between the Buenos
Ayrean and the Chilian chiefs--San Martin's confidence in foreign officers and his endeavors
to create a national army in Peru gave great umbrage to both; a secret political Lodge was
formed among the leading chiefs of corps, and he was openly charged with latent designs to
make himself the King or Perpetual Dictator of Peru.

The Spanish army, which had evacuated the Capital unbroken, profiting by these dissensions
and the delay of the Patriot army in the Capital, had largely recruited itself in the valley
of Jauja; they were every day gaining more strength, while the Patriot army was becoming daily
weaker both physically and morally; under these circumstances General San Martin sought an
interview with Bolivar, at Guayaquil, and shortly after his return to Lima, in 1822, he resigned
his high post of Protector and General-in-chief, and embarked for Europe. On his arrival in
Europe, after a short visit to the East of Fife, San Martin passed his time chiefly in Brussels
and Paris, so much respected by all who knew him, and so esteemed for his probity, that Sor
Aguado, the rich Spanish Banker, on his death-bed, named San Martin his Executor.

It is believed that he retired from Peru, disgusted with the false charges that were brought
against him, and after having obtained a promise from his great rival, Bolivar, that he would
finish the war, which it would have been much for San Martin's own glory to have concluded
himself. If so, he had the magnanimity to prefer the good of Peru to his own glory, a virtue
never found except amongst men of great nobleness of soul. San Martin may have even thought
that under the circumstances, his great rival was fitter to conclude the war than he was himself;
and if he did so, the result proved at once his modesty and the soundness of his judgment,
for when the Peruvian Government had fairly intrusted their destinies to Bolivar, in rapid
succession, he fought the bloody battles of Junin and Ayacucho, the result of which was the
final and total liberation of Peru.

Nor was Bolivar less just to foreign officers of merit than San Martin. Amongst his Generals
and Aid-de-camps ranked General Brawn, General Oleary, Colonel Wilson, and many others; and
Colonel Miller (who had been raised to the rank of General), as the reward of his gallant conduct
in the last hard-fought fields of Junin and Ayacucho, received the further honor of being declared
a Marescal de Agacucho. To other officers of Peru, of Chile and of Buenos Ayres, Bolivar was
equally just, thus showing that he was superior to any petty jealousy of those chiefs with
whose aid San Martin, his illustrious predecessor, had made those great achievements which
a weaker mind might have looked upon with envy as, in some respects, overwhelming his own.

FREDERICK BASTIAT, the political economist, whose health had been very feeble for nearly a
year, and of whose death last summer in Italy a report was copied into the International, died
in Rome on the 24th of December. He was born at Bayonne in 1801, and after completing his education,
he retired to a quiet village in the department of Landes, to pursue his favorite studies of
trade and society. He was successively called to various offices of the department, and to
the present National Assembly he was chosen by a vote of 56,000, being the second in the list
of seven representing the Landes. His first book, we believe, was Cobden et la Ligue, published
in 1844, from which period he was an industrious writer. Without being a discoverer of new
truths, he possessed in an eminent degree the faculty of expanding, with clearness and vigor,
the grounds and the effects of complex natural laws already developed by the technical processes
of philosophy. His writings have been exceedingly popular. The whole or nearly the whole, of
the tracts written by him under the generic title of 'Sophismes Economiques,' originally appeared
in the Journal des Economistes--a periodical of which for the last six years he had been a
principal supporter. The disease of which he died was a very painful and peculiar affection
of the throat. He had suffered from it more or less, for some years; and the hard work of the
last session of the Assembly brought the disorder to a crisis which the strength of the patient
did not enable him to overcome. He may be regarded as the virtual leader of the Free Trade
party in France. He aided with all his energies the Association Française pour la Liberté des
Échanges, and he did his utmost to spread among his countrymen that new philosophy of trade.
His last and most important work, Les Harmonies Economiques, we lately noticed in these pages.
His Sophismes Economiques were translated a few years ago by a daughter of Langdon Cheves,
of South Carolina, and published in this city by Mr. Putnam. The extent to which M. Bastiat
was indebted to our countryman, Henry C. Carey, may be inferred from a note in the February
number of the International, page 402.

BENJAMIN W. CROWNINSHIELD, died in Boston, on Monday the 3d of February. He had left his carriage
and entered a store, when he suddenly fell and expired, having previously suffered from a disease
of the heart, which is supposed to have been the cause of his death, although he was about
77 years of age. He had been a resident of Boston nearly twenty years, during the greater part
of which period he had been retired from public life. He had previously resided in Salem, where
the Crowninshields were long distinguished for wealth and commercial enterprise. He was many
years a prominent leader of the old democratic republican party. In December, 1814, he received,
from President Madison, the appointment of Secretary of the Navy, which office he held (being
continued by President Monroe) until he resigned, in November, 1818, when he was succeeded
by Smith Thompson, afterwards judge of the Supreme Court. In 1823 he was chosen a member of
Congress from Essex South District, and was continued by his constituents in that station until
1831--eight years. He was in Congress when John Quincy Adams was elected President of the United
States, by that body; he participated in that election by giving his vote for Mr. A., and was
a zealous supporter of his administration, acting subsequently with the whig party. He was
repeatedly, at different periods of his life, a member of the state legislature, and although
not distinguished for eminent talents, in all the stations which he filled he enjoyed, in a
high degree, the public confidence.

PROFESSOR ANSTEY, lately connected with St. Mary's College, at Wilmington, died in the early
part of February. He was dismissed from his station on account of intemperate habits, but continued
his dissipation until reduced to the utmost destitution, wandering about homeless and friendless.
He was discovered at length in an almost frozen state, in an old hovel, with a bottle of whiskey
by his side, and soon died from the effects of his suffering. Professor Anstey was a young
man of fine classical attainments, and was the author of a work published a year or two since
in Philadelphia, entitled, "Elements of Literature, or an introduction to the Study of Rhetoric
and Belle Lettres."

DONALD MCKENZIE, born in Scotland, June 15, 1783, died on the 20th of January, at Mayville,
in New-York. At the age of seventeen he came over to Canada and joined the North West Company,
and continued eight years with them. In 1809 he became one of the partners with the late John
Jacob Astor, in establishing the fur trade west of the Rocky Mountains, and with Mr. Hunt,
of St. Louis, made the overland route to the mouth of the Columbia River, a feat then rarely
attempted, and full of perils, and remained at Astoria until it was surrendered by McDougal
to the British. He converted every thing he could into available funds, which he carried safely
through the wilderness to Mr. Astor. Washington Irving, in "Astoria," narrates a few of Mr.
McKenzie's adventures on the frontiers, although the friends of McKenzie claim that injustice
has been done him by Mr. Irving, relative to the betrayal of Astoria. They contend that to
him alone was Mr. Astor indebted for all that was saved. After the restoration of peace, McKenzie
exerted himself to secure for the United States the exclusive trade of Oregon, but after a
long negotiation with Mr. Astor, and through him with Messrs. Madison, Gallatin, and other
leading individuals in and out of office, the matter was abandoned, and McKenzie, in March,
1821, joined the Hudson Bay Company, and was immediately appointed one of the Council, and
Chief Factor. In August, 1825, he was married to Adelegonde Humburt (who survives him), and
was shortly after appointed Governor. At this time he resided at Fort Garry, Red River settlement,
where he continued to reside until 1832, in active and prosperous business, in which he amassed
a large fortune. In August of the following year he went to reside in Mayville, where he spent
the rest of his life.

HORACE EVERETT, LL.D., formerly a distinguished representative in Congress from Vermont, died
at Windsor in that State on the 30th of January, in the seventy-second year of his age. Elected
to Congress by the opponents of General Jackson, he entered the House of Representatives in
1829, and was continued by his constituents, inhabiting one of the strongest and most enlightened
whig districts in the Union, for fourteen consecutive years--his last term expiring in March,
1843. During his career in Congress, he was one of the most prominent whigs of the House, occupying
the front rank, as one of the most able of parliamentary debaters, distinguished also as much
his good sense and acquirements, as for his eloquence. Among his best speeches, were several
on the Indian Bill, so called, growing out of the difficulties between Georgia and the Cherokees.

The London Morning Chronicle has a brief notice of JAMES HARFIELD, who was connected with that
journal more than twenty years. His reading, in every department of literature, was prodigious,
and his memory almost a phenomenon. On all matters connected with Parliamentary history, precedent,
and etiquette in particular, Mr. Harfield was an encyclopædia of information, while the stores
of his learning, in every department, were always freely at the command of his friends and
colleagues. In early life, Mr. Harfield was a protégé of, and afterwards acted as secretary
to, Jeremy Bentham, who acknowledged his sense of his young friend's services by bequeathing
to him a magnificent library.

WILLIAM WILSON, a painter of considerable reputation, died in Charleston, S. C, on the 28th
of January. The Charleston Evening News says:--"He was a native of Yorkshire, England, but
for the last twenty years has resided in this country, and during the last eleven, in Georgia
and South Carolina. In all the relations of life, as husband, father, son, and brother, he
was irreproachable, while his gentle and winning manners conciliated general esteem and regard.
At his death Mr. Wilson had attained a distinguished reputation as a portrait painter, in which
department he first attracted attention in 1836, by the exhibition of a portrait of an intimate
friend at the first exhibition of the "American Art-Union," at the Apollo Gallery. In 1837
he exhibited several heads of the Academy of Design, which attracted much attention. In 1844
he exhibited a head of a brother artist, which was more generally admired than any similar
production for years. In 1846 Mr. W. received a commission from the State of Georgia to execute
two portraits--one of William H. Crawford, former Secretary of the Treasury, and the other
of Gen. Jackson. After a tedious and troublesome journey to the North, in search of Jarvis's
portrait of Crawford, which could not be traced, he returned to Charleston, and while copying
from Vanderlyn's portrait of Gen. Jackson in the City Hall, he was presented by Charles Fraser,
Esq., with a proof engraving of Jarvis's Crawford, from which, on his return to Augusta, he
produced a most striking portrait of Georgia's greatest statesman. These pictures of Jackson
and Crawford, which adorn the State House at Milledgeville, will be lasting memorials of his
excellence as an artist."

JAMES WALLACE, D.D., the distinguished Mathematician, several years Professor of Mathematics
in Columbia College, New-York, died in Lexington District, South Carolina, on the 15th of January.
After completing his course of Theology, he was ordained a clergyman of the Roman Catholic
Church, and was then appointed to the chair of Mathematics in Georgetown College, D.C. A few
years later he removed to Columbia, S. C., and was appointed Professor of Mathematics in South
Carolina College. While in New-York he published his justly celebrated "Treatise on Globes
and Practical Astronomy," and had prepared materials for an entire course of Natural Philosophy
and Astronomy, but was compelled to relinquish his design on account of ill-health and advanced
age. He was also the author of numerous scientific articles in the Southern Quarterly Review.
He possessed one of the choicest and most extensive scientific libraries in the United States,
which was almost entirely destroyed by the great conflagration of 1837: the remnant of it,
with his scientific apparatus, was bequeathed to the Catholic Theological Seminary of Charleston.
He was a resident of South Carolina during the last thirty-eight years.

JOSHUA MILNE, the author of the celebrated treatise on "Annuities and Assurances," we see by
the English papers died recently near London at the advanced age of seventy-eight. He is said
to have left behind him the most complete collection extant on subjects connected with the
statistics of vitality, of which a portion at least will probably be given to the public.

The Hungarian General BEM, expired with the half-century. Born at Tarnon, a Pole, he died at
Aleppo, a Turk. In early youth he served in the Russian army against Napoleon in his disastrous
campaign. He was the friend, companion, and favorite of the Grand Duke Constantine, until certain
indignities to himself and cruelties to his countrymen made him the implacable foe of Russia.
He joined the Polish insurrection of 1831, and performed prodigies of valor at the battle of
Ostrolenka. Like many others, he became a fugitive and a wanderer. Unsuccessful patriotism
reduced the companion of royalty to be a pensioner on the charity of the friends of Poland
in London. 1848 gave Bern once more a career. He went to Vienna, and when the people were in
the ascendant, in October, he held a command. But the Viennese could not trust the Pole. Incompetent
men were placed over him. Vienna fell before the artillery of Windischgratz and Jellachich
in November. Slaughter, terror, violation reigned. Never will the Viennese forget the red cloaks
of the Croats. The educated youth of Vienna were shot in clusters. Robert Blum was led out
to perish. The Odeon, although used as an hospital, was laid in ashes, with the wounded in
it. Great rewards were offered for the apprehension of the popular leaders and generals still
alive. The search for Bem was vigilant. He doffed the costume of a hackney coachman, filled
his vehicle with a Hungarian family of nurses and children, mounted the box under the eyes
of spies and soldiers, laughed at inspection, and drove off to Hungary. For ten mouths he was
victorious there over the Austrians. "Bem beat the Ban." Splinters from an old wound escaping
from his leg all the time, and able only to sit on horseback.

T. S. DAVIES, F.R.S., F.A.S., and a Professor of Mathematics in the Royal Military Academy
at Woolwich, died on the 6th of January at Shooter's Hill, Kent, in the fifty-seventh year
of his age. Mr. Davies was a very distinguished mathematician, and the author of several works
on mathematics. He possessed, also, extensive and varied acquirements in different branches
of science and literature. Nor was he unmindful of the claims of the more humble aspirant to
mathematical honors; his encouragement and advice were liberally bestowed, as many deserving
young men could testify.

HENRY CHRISTIAN SCHUMACHER, the celebrated Danish Astronomer, died at Altona on the 28th of
December, aged about seventy years. He commenced his professional career at the age of twenty-five,
as professor of astronomy in the University of Copenhagen. In 1822, his royal master, Frederic
VI., caused to be built, expressly that Schumacher might be placed at the head of it, the Observatory
of Altona. From 1820 to 1829 he published his "Auxiliary Tables of Astronomy", in ten volumes,
quarto. His Astronomical Annals, continued from 1830 to the date of his death, have, with his
Tables, given him a high and wide reputation. In 1832 the King of Denmark established the reward
of a golden medal for the discovery of new microscopic comets; and it was upon his favorite
Schumacher exclusively that he devolved the duty of verifying the title of claimants and assigning
the medal. Since 1847 Schumacher has been the correspondent of the Academy of Sciences of Paris.

MAXWELL, the Irish novelist, and author of innumerable humorous sketches in the periodical
literature of the day, expired on the 29th of December, at Musselberge, near Edinburgh. His
generally vigorous health had of late broken down, and he crept into the retirement of this
sequestered village to die. He had been in early life a captain in the British army, and was
of course the delight of the mess-room, and a general favorite in social circles. He subsequently
entered the church, and was some years prebendary of Balla, a wild Connaught church living,
without any congregation or cure of souls attached to it; though it afforded what he was admirably
capable of dealing with, plenty of game. Of a warm-hearted, kind, and manly temperament, he
made friends of all who came within the range of his wit or the circle of his acquaintance.
He was the founder of that school which counts the "Harry Lorrequers" and others among its
humble disciples; but the "Story of my Life," and "Wild Sports of the West," will not be easily
surpassed in the peculiar qualities of that gay and off-hand style of which he was the originator.
Among his other more successful works are "Stories of Waterloo," "Hector O'Halloran," and "Rambling
Recollections of a Soldier of Fortune." Besides his novels, he wrote "Notes and Reflections
during a Ramble in Germany," "Victories of the British Armies," and a "Life of Field Marshal
the Duke of Wellington".

ALEXANDER MACDONALD, well known to the public as an antiquary, died early in January at Edinburgh.
He was one of Mr. Thompson's earliest assistants in the publication of the "Acts of the Parliaments
of Scotland," and other works, undertaken by the Record Commissioners. He was long a most active
member of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland; and the library and museum of that body owe
much to his industry and intelligence. He edited several volumes of the Maitland Club, to which
he contributed "The Register of Ministers in the year 1567"--the earliest extant record of
the ecclesiastical appointments of the Reformed Church in Scotland. Mr. Macdonald also largely
supplied the materials of Sir Walter Scott's notes and illustrations of the "Waverley Novels."
He held many years the office of Keeper of the Register of Deeds and Protests in Scotland.

Scientific Miscellanies

MR. WALSH writes from Paris to the Journal of Commerce, in the last month, as follows:

The Annuaire, or Annual for the present year, has been issued by the Board of Longitude. M.
Arago has appended to it nearly 200 pages on the Calendar in which he treats of all the divisions
of time among the ancients and the moderns. This celebrated astronomer does not belie, in this
notice, his reputation for handling scientific subjects so as to make them clear to common
apprehension. He announces, in his second page, that he has completed and will soon publish
a Treatise of Popular Astronomy; a desideratum for France. Sir John Herschel has supplied it
for English readers, in his Outlines. The present history and explanations of the Calendar
may be recommended, as material, to your Professor Loomis. In the section concerning the period
at which the Paris clocks were first regulated on the mean or true time, Arago observes: "It
will not happen again that an astronomer shall hear for a half hour, the same hour struck by
different clocks, as Delambre told me he had often experienced. M. Chabrol, the Prefect of
the Department of the Seine, before he would introduce this useful change, required, as a guaranty
for himself, a report from the Board of Longitude: he was fearful that the change might provoke
the working population to insurrection; that they might refuse to accept a mid-day or noon
which, by a contradiction in terms, would not correspond to the middle of the day; which would
divide in two unequal portions the time comprised between the rising and the setting of the
sun. But this sinister anticipation was not realized; the operation passed without being perceived."
It is all important, on the railroads, that the clocks at the different stations should be
so regulated. Arago remarks that among the ancients it would have been dangerous to announce
the existence of more than seven planets, owing to the "mysterious virtues" ascribed to that
number; to complete it the sun was counted among the planets. He discusses the point--which
is the first day of the week, and decides for Sunday. He devotes a section to the question--"Will
the period come when the days will be equal between themselves, and have the same temperature
throughout the year?" He concludes, of course, in the negative. He decides, also, that the
nineteenth century began only on the 1st of January, 1801. Particular interest may be attributed
to the section on the long series of ages which the ancients invested with the title "The Great
Year." The high names of Plato, Cicero, Seneca, Plutarch, should not prevent us from regarding
the opinions of antiquity on the relations of the great year, with the events of every kind
observable on the earth, as among the crudest conceptions that have descended to the moderns.

At the sitting of the Academy of Sciences on the 24th ult., M. AUGUSTIN CAUCHY read a memoir
on the transversal vibrations of ether, and of the dispersion of colors. He furnished a simple,
and easily intelligible mathematical theory of the various phenomena of light, and particularly,
the theory of the dispersion of colors. Lord Brougham read a paper of his Researches, Experimental
and Analytical, on Light. His Lordship's ambition is to shine in optics, as in every thing
else; but you will see by a London paragraph that his researches have nearly cost him his eyesight.
Dr. Aran submitted a Memoir, which seems to be quite important, on local anesthetic medication.
"In the medical point of view," he remarks, "the number of cases in which local anesthetic
applications may be employed, is truly immense. My experiments and researches, during many
months, have conducted me to this practical result, which is worthy of all attention. Whenever
an acute pain exists in any part of the animal economy, whether the pain constitute the malady
in itself or be only an integral and principal part of it, the physician can relieve the patient
of it for a longer or shorter time, by one or various local anesthetic applications. Great
service, too, may be rendered by the precedent use of them in various surgical cases. The medication
is wonderfully useful in articular acute rheumatism."

"Local anesthetic properties belong to all the agents in which the general have been found.
They depend on the degree of fixity of the substance. A number of the anesthetics are irritating
for the skin; chloroform in particular. According to Dr. Aran, the best agent for topical use
is éther chlorhydique chloré. This is efficacious in a few minutes. Monsieur Recamier has submitted
to the Academy of Medicine a galvanic cataplasm, by which, when it is applied to the skin,
the benefit of electricity is fully conveyed, without the least pain. The reporter exclaims,
'Yes, who would have thought it? Electricity is transformed into cataplasm. This mysterious
power, which, perhaps, is life itself, is reduced to an humble and common part in pharmaceutical
science.'

"At the sitting of the Academy of Sciences on the 30th ult., a very interesting memoir (the
4th) was read by M.A. Masson, with the title, Studies of Electrical Photometry. He thinks that
he has ascertained the cause of electrical light. He ascribes the Aurora Borealis to currents
of great intensity situate in the higher regions of our atmosphere." The Report of Lieut. J.C.
Walsh on his soundings, was referred for examination to Duperroy, the member most eminent in
hydrography.

MONSIEUR POUILLET, the great Professor of Physics, has published in Paris a work entitled General
Notions of Natural Philosophy and Meteorology, for the use of young persons; and Mr. Boussingault,
eminent as a scientific agriculturist, the second edition of his Rural Economy considered in
its Relations with Chemistry, Physics, and Mineralogy. The Treatise of Mineralogy by Dufresnoy,
the celebrated Professor, who is of the Academy of Sciences, is complete, and at least equal
to any other extant. There are four volumes octavo. The 22d volume of the memoirs of the Academy
was ready in September last; the 23d is in the press; the 11th volume of Foreign Communications
will appear this month. Twelve vacancies from death of foreign correspondents, are soon to
be filled by election. All merit is ascribed to the work of Dr. Fairet, entitled Clinical Instructions
respecting Mental Maladies. The author, pupil and successor of Pínel and Esquirol, is the physician
of the Salpetriere. Along with the able Doctor Voison, he has a noble Lunatic Asylum of his
own, not far from the capital.

SIR DAVID BREWSTER, it seems, has become a convert to that part of Animal Magnetism called
Electro Biology, and which consists in willing a person to be somebody else. After describing
some wonderful experiments, made in the presence of several scientific gentlemen, by a Mr.
DARLING, he says, "they were all as convinced as I was, that the phenomena which we witnessed
were real phenomena, and as well established as any other facts in physical science. The process
by which the operator produces them--the mode by which that process acts upon the mind of the
patient--and the reference of the phenomena to some general law in the constitution of man--may
long remain unknown; but it is not difficult to see in the recent discoveries of M. DUBOIS
REYMOND and MATTEUCIA, and in the laws which regulate the relative intensity of the external
and internal impressions on the nerves of sensation, some not very indistinct indications of
that remarkable process by which minds of peculiar sensibility are temporarily placed under
the dominion of physical influences developed and directed by some living agent."

Ladies' Fashions for Early Spring.

More attention than previously for many seasons appears to have been given this winter to ladies'
fashions, and some that have come out are remarkably tasteful, while generally in fabric and
manufacture they appear to be unusually expensive. We compile this month mainly from the London
World of Fashion.

Bonnets are remarkable for a novel form, the front of the rims continuing large and open, the
crowns round, low, and small. Of an elegant style are those made of Orient gray pearl, half
satin, half velours épinglé, having a very rich effect, and decorated with touffes Marquises,
composed of marabouts. Then, we see bonnets of green satin, ornamented at the edge, over the
front, and upon the crown, with a stamped velvet imitating lace, and decorated upon the left
side with a small plumet in a weeping feather, the ends of which are tied or knotted with green,
of two different shades; this is a very favorite and recherché style. Also a bonnet of grayish
green velvet, ornamented with a bunch of feathers composed of the grèbe and the ostrich. Drooping
low feathers of every description are in request for decorating bonnets.

Ball Dresses of light materials are most in vogue, and are generally made of two and three
skirts; as white tulle, with three skirts, trimmed all round with a broad, open-worked satin
ribbon; the third skirt being raised on one side, and attached with a large bouquet of flowers,
whilst the ribbon is twisted, and ascends to the side of the waist, where it finishes; the
same kind of flowers serves to ornament the sleeves and centre of the corsage, which is also
trimmed with a deep drapery of tulle. Feather trimmings are in vogue, disposed as fringes of
marabout, and placed at the edges of the double skirts of tulle. Another pretty style, composed
also of white tulle, and à double jupes, the under one having a border of white marabout fringe
sprinkled with small golden grains falling over them in a perfect shower; the second jupe having
attached to the edge of the hem a narrower fringe; the two sides of the upper skirt being open
to the waist, is ornamented upon each side with an embroidery of gold and white silk, caught
at regular distances with noeuds of white and gold gauze ribbon, the floating ends of which
are edged with fringe; body à la Grecque.

Capotes of velvet are considerably lightened in appearance, by a novelty consisting of a kind
of open stamped velvet, which is placed over satin; either a pretty contrast in color, or of
the same hue; whilst those of plain velvet are relieved with trimmings of black lace, with
mancinis formed of the convolvulus, made in green velvet. The form of the present style of
capotes is very open in front, flat upon the top of the head, and shallow and sloping at the
back. Some are of green satin, trimmed with ribbons of an open pattern in black and green.
Others are decorated with rows of fancy ribbon-velvet, the interior having loops of narrow
ribbon-velvet of two colors, charmingly blended.

I. A high dress of green silk, the body opening in front à la demi coeur; the waist is long
and rounded in front; the sleeves, reaching a little below the elbow, are moderately wide,
and finished either by a rûche or rich guimpe trimming; the skirt is plain, long, and full.
Pardessus manteau of claret velvet, fastening to the throat; it is ornamented with a narrow
silk trimming: this manteau is lined with white silk, quilted in large squares. Bonnet of green
velvet, with feathers of the same color placed low at the left side.

II. Robe of blue brocade; the high body opens in the front nearly to the waist; the fronts
of the skirt are lined with amber satin, and a fulling of the same is placed on the edge of
the fronts, graduating in width towards the top; it is carried round the neck of the dress;
the sleeves are very wide from the elbow, and lined with amber satin; the edge of the sleeve
is left plain, but there is a rûche of satin round the middle of the sleeve, just above the
elbow. Under dress of jaconet muslin, trimmed with lace or embroidery. Cap of tulle, with blue
trimmings.

III. A dress of pink tulle, spotted and brodé in silver; the jupe composed of three skirts,
each waved round the lower part; plain close-fitting body, made very low, and pointed at the
waist; the upper part decorated with a narrow cape, descending in a point upon the front of
the corsage, and decorated with a splendid bouquet of roses; a second row of frilling forms
the loose short sleeve; the whole worn over a dress of pale pink satin; a narrow row of white
blonde encircling the neck. The hair is arranged in a similar form to figure I; the only difference
being that the noeud of ribbon is replaced by a beautiful drooping branch of pink shaded roses
and light foliage; a spray of the three green leaves being placed upon the centre of the front,
just over the parting of the hair.

IV. A dress of green satin; the skirt, long and full, has four rows of braid up the front;
the body is high, open a little in the front, the braid being carried round it; it is plaited
from the shoulder to the waist; wide sleeves, with broad cuffs turned back; they have three
rows of braid on them. Mantelot of grey cachmere, the sleeves à la Maintenon; the edges are
all scalloped and trimmed with braid. Bonnet of ultra marine velvet; a broad black lace is
turned back over the edge; it has a deep curtain.

For a Young Lady's Dress, Capote formed of rows of narrow pink fancy ribbon. Frock of dark
blue cachmere; the skirt trimmed with two rows of ribbon-velvet; the cape formed of narrow
folds, open in the front, continued across with bands of velvet. Pantaloons of embroidered cambric.