Up, and presented from Captain Beckford with a noble silver warming-pan, which I am doubtful
whether to take or no.  Up, and with W. Hewer to the New Exchange, and then he and I to the
cabinet-shops, to look out, and did agree, for a cabinet to give my wife for a New-year's gift;
and I did buy one cost me L11, which is very pretty, of walnutt-tree, and will come home to-morrow.
So back to the old Exchange, and there met my uncle Wight; and there walked, and met with the
Houblons, and talked with them--gentlemen whom I honour mightily: and so to my uncle's, and
met my wife; and there, with W. Hewer, we dined with our family, and had a very good dinner,
and pretty merry and after dinner, my wife and I with our coach to the King's playhouse, and
there in a box saw "The Mayden Queene." Knepp looked upon us, but I durst not shew her any
countenance; and, as well as I could carry myself, I found my wife uneasy there, poor wretch!
therefore, I shall avoid that house as much as I can.  So back to my aunt's, and there supped
and talked, and staid pretty late, it being dry and moonshine, and so walked home, and to bed
in very good humour.

2nd.  Up, at the office all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, where I find my cabinet
come home, and paid for it, and it pleases me and my wife well.  So after dinner busy late
at the office, and so home and to bed.

3rd (Lord's day).  Up, and busy all the morning, getting rooms and dinner ready for my guests,
which were my uncle and aunt Wight, and two of their cousins, and an old woman, and Mr. Mills
and his wife; and a good dinner, and all our plate out, and mighty fine and merry, only I a
little vexed at burning a new table-cloth myself, with one of my trencher-salts. Dinner done,
I out with W. Hewer and Mr. Spong, who by accident come to dine with me, and good talk with
him: to White Hall by coach, and there left him, and I with my Lord Brouncker to attend the
Duke of York, and then up and down the House till the evening, hearing how the King do intend
this frosty weather, it being this day the first, and very hard frost, that hath come this
year, and very cold it is.  So home; and to supper and read; and there my wife and I treating
about coming to an allowance to my wife for clothes; and there I, out of my natural backwardness,
did hang off, which vexed her, and did occasion some discontented talk in bed, when we went
to bed; and also in the morning, but I did recover all in the morning.

4th.  Then, going further, The. Turner called me, out of her coach where her mother, &c., was,
and invited me by all means to dine with them, at my cozen Roger's mistress's, the widow Dickenson!
So, I went to them afterwards, and dined with them, and mighty handsomely treated, and she
a wonderful merry, good-humoured, fat, but plain woman, but I believe a very good woman, and
mighty civil to me.  Mrs. Turner, the mother, and Mrs. Dyke, and The., and Betty was the company,
and a gentleman of their acquaintance.  Betty I did long to see, and she is indifferent pretty,
but not what the world did speak of her; but I am mighty glad to have one so pretty of our
kindred.  By and by I met my Lord Brouncker; and he and I to the Duke of York alone, and discoursed
over the carriage of the present Treasurers, in opposition to, or at least independency of,
the Duke of York, or our Board, which the Duke of York is sensible of, and all remember, I
believe; for they do carry themselves very respectlessly of him and us.  So the Duke of York
was very sensible of it and promised to speak to the King about it.  That done, I with W. Hewer
took up my wife at Unthank's, and so home, and there with pleasure to read and talk, and so
to supper, and put into writing, in merry terms, our agreement between my wife and me, about
L30 a-year, and so to bed.  This was done under both our hands merrily, and put into W. Hewer's
to keep.

5th.  Up, and to the office all the morning, the frost and cold continuing.  At noon home with
my people to dinner; and so to work at the office again; in the evening comes Creed to me,
and tells me his wife is at my house.  So I in, and spent an hour with them, the first time
she hath been here, or I have seen her, since she was married.  She is not overhandsome, though
a good lady, and one I love.  So after some pleasant discourse, they gone, I to the Office
again, and there late, and then home to supper to my wife, who is not very well of those, and
so sat talking till past one in the morning, and then to bed.

6th (Twelfth day).  Up, and to look after things against dinner to-day for my guests, and then
to the Office to write down my journall for five or six days backward, and so home to look
after dinner, it being now almost noon.  At noon comes Mrs. Turner and Dyke, and Mrs. Dickenson,
and then comes The. and Betty Turner, the latter of which is a very pretty girl; and then Creed
and his wife, whom I sent for, by my coach. These were my guests, and Mrs. Turner's friend,
whom I saw the other day, Mr. Wicken, and very merry we were at dinner, and so all the afternoon,
talking, and looking up and down my house; and in the evening I did bring out my cake--a noble
cake, and there cut it into pieces, with wine and good drink: and after a new fashion, to prevent
spoiling the cake, did put so many titles into a hat, and so drew cuts; and I was the Queene;
and The. Turner, King--Creed, Sir Martin Marr-all; and Betty, Mrs. Millicent: and so we were
mighty merry till it was night; and then, being moonshine and fine frost, they went home, I
lending some of them my coach to help to carry them, and so my wife and I spent the rest of
the evening in talk and reading, and so with great pleasure to bed.

7th. Thence home and to the office to do some business, and so home to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up, and with Colonel Middleton, in his coach, and Mr. Tippets to White Hall; and there
attended the Duke of York with the rest, where the Duke was mighty plain with the Treasurers,
according to the advice my Lord Brouncker and I did give him the other night, and he did it
fully; and so as, I believe, will make the Treasurers carefull of themselves, unless they do
resolve upon defying the Duke of York.  Thence with W. Hewer home, and to dinner, and so out
again, my wife and I and Mr. Hater to White Hall, where she set us down, and she up and down
to buy things, while we at the Treasury-Chamber, where I alone did manage the business of "The
Leopard" against the whole Committee of the East India Company,  with Mr. Blackburne with them;
and to the silencing of them all, to my no great content.  Thence walked to my wife, and so
set out for home in our coach, it being very cold weather, and so to the office to do a little
business, and then home to my wife's chamber, my people having laid the cloth, and got the
rooms all clean above-stairs to-night for our dinner to-morrow, and therefore I to bed.

9th.  Up, and at the office all the morning, and at noon, my Lord Brouncker, Mr. Wren, Joseph
Williamson, and Captain Cocke, dined with me; and, being newly sat down, comes in, by invitation
of Williamson's, the Lieutenant of the Tower, and he brings in with him young Mr. Whore, whose
father, of the Tower, I know.--And here I had a neat dinner, and all in so good manner and
fashion, and with so good company, and everything to my mind, as I never had more in my life--the
company being to my heart's content, and they all well pleased.  So continued, looking over
my books and closet till the evening, and so I to the Office and did a good deal of business,
and so home to supper and to bed with my mind mightily pleased with this day's management,
as one of the days of my life of fullest content.

10th (Lord's day).  Accidentally talking of our maids before we rose, I said a little word
that did give occasion to my wife to fall out; and she did most vexatiously, almost all the
morning, but ended most perfect good friends; but the thoughts of the unquiet which her ripping
up of old faults will give me, did make me melancholy all day long.  So about noon, past 12,
we rose, and to dinner, and then to read and talk, my wife and I alone, for Balty was gone,
who come to dine with us, and then in the evening comes Pelting to sit and talk with us, and
so to supper and pretty merry discourse, only my mind a little vexed at the morning's work,
but yet without any appearance.  So after supper to bed.

11th.  So home; and there at home all the evening; and made Tom to prick down some little conceits
and notions of mine, in musique, which do mightily encourage me to spend some more thoughts
about it; for I fancy, upon good reason, that I am in the right way of unfolding the mystery
of this matter, better than ever yet.

12th.  Up, and to the Office, where, by occasion of a message from the Treasurers that their
Board found fault with Commissioner Middleton, I went up from our Board to the Lords of the
Treasury to meet our Treasurers, and did, and there did dispute the business, it being about
the matter of paying a little money to Chatham Yard, wherein I find the Treasurers mighty supple,
and I believe we shall bring them to reason, though they begun mighty upon us, as if we had
no power of directing them, but they, us.  Thence back presently home, to dinner, where I discern
my wife to have been in pain about where I have been, but said nothing to me, but I believe
did send W. Hewer to seek me, but I take no notice of it, but am vexed.  So to dinner with
my people, and then to the Office, where all the afternoon, and did much business, and at it
late, and so home to supper, and to bed.  This day, meeting Mr. Pierce at White Hall, he tells
me that his boy hath a great mind to see me, and is going to school again; and Dr. Clerke,
being by, do tell me that he is a fine boy; but I durst not answer anything, because I durst
not invite him to my house, for fear of my wife; and therefore, to my great trouble, was forced
to neglect that discourse.  This evening I observed my wife mighty dull, and I myself was not
mighty fond, because of some hard words she did give me at noon, out of a jealousy at my being
abroad this morning, which, God knows, it was upon the business of the Office unexpectedly:
but I to bed, not thinking but she would come after me. But waking by and by out of a slumber,
which I usually fall into presently after my coming into the bed, I found she did not prepare
to come to bed, but got fresh candles, and more wood for her fire, it being mighty cold, too.
At this being troubled, I after a while prayed her to come to bed, all my people being gone
to bed; so, after an hour or two, she silent, and I now and then praying her to come to bed,
she fell out into a fury, that I was a rogue, and false to her.  But yet I did perceive that
she was to seek what to say, only she invented, I believe, a business that I was seen in a
hackney coach with the glasses up with Deb., but could not tell the time, nor was sure I was
he.  I did, as I might truly, deny it, and was mightily troubled, but all would not serve.
At last, about one o'clock, she come to my side of the bed, and drew my curtaine open, and
with the tongs red hot at the ends, made as if she did design to pinch me with them, at which,
in dismay, I rose up, and with a few words she laid them down; and did by little and, little,
very sillily, let all the discourse fall; and about two, but with much seeming difficulty,
come to bed, and there lay well all night, and long in bed talking together, with much pleasure,
it being, I know, nothing but her doubt of my going out yesterday, without telling her of my
going, which did vex her, poor wretch! last night, and I cannot blame her jealousy, though
it do vex me to the heart.

13th.  So up and by coach to Sir W. Coventry's, but he gone out, so I to White Hall, and thence
walked out into the Park, all in the snow, with the Duke of York and the rest, and so home,
after visiting my Lady Peterborough, and there by invitation find Mr. Povy, and there was also
Talbot Pepys, newly come from Impington, and dined with me; and after dinner and a little talk
with Povy about publick matters, he gone, and I and my wife and Talbot towards the Temple,
and there to the King's playhouse, and there saw, I think, "The Maiden Queene," and so home
and to supper and read, and to bed.  This day come home the instrument I have so long longed
for, the Parallelogram.

14th.  Up and to the office, where all the morning busy, and so home to dinner, where Goodgroome
with us, and after dinner a song, and then to the office, where busy till night, and then home
to work there with W. Hewer to get ready some Tangier papers against to-morrow, and so to supper
and to bed.

15th.  So I home and to dinner, and then out again and stop with my wife at my cozen Turner's
where I staid and sat a while, and carried The. and my wife to the Duke of York's house, to
"Macbeth," and myself to White Hall, to the Lords of the Treasury, about Tangier business;
and there was by at much merry discourse between them and my Lord Anglesey, who  made sport
of our new Treasurers, and called them his deputys, and much of that kind.  And having done
my own business, I away back, and carried my cozen Turner and sister Dyke to a friend's house,
where they were to sup, in Lincoln's Inn Fields; and I to the Duke of York's house and saw
the last two acts, and so carried The. thither, and so home with my wife, who read to me late,
and so to supper and to bed. This day The. Turner shewed me at the play my Lady Portman, who
has grown out of my knowledge.

16th.  Up, and to the office all the morning, dined at home with my people, and so all the
afternoon till night at the office busy, and so home to supper and to bed.  This morning Creed,
and in the afternoon comes Povy, to advise with me about my answer to the Lords [Commissioners]
of Tangier, about the propositions for the Treasurership there, which I am not much concerned
for.  To church myself after seeing every thing fitted for dinner, and so, after church, home,
and thither comes Mrs. Batelier and her two daughters to dinner to us; and W. Hewer and his
mother, and Mr. Spong.  We were very civilly merry, and Mrs. Batelier a very discreet woman,
but mighty fond in the stories she tells of her son Will.  After dinner, Mr. Spong and I to
my closet, there to try my instrument Parallelogram, which do mighty well, to my full content;
but only a little stiff, as being new.  So staying late talking in the Queen's side, I away,
with W. Hewer home, and there to read and talk with my wife, and so to bed.

18th.  Thence back and took up my wife at the 'Change, and so home.  This day at noon I went
with my young gentlemen (thereby to get a little time while W. Hewer went home to bid them
get a dinner ready) to the Pope's Head tavern, there to see the fine painted room which Rogerson
told me of, of his doing; but I do not like it at all, though it be good for such a publick room.

19th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  Thence, not much pleased with the play, set
them at home in the Strand; and my wife and I home, and there to do a little business at the
Office, and so home to supper and to bed.

20th.  Up; and my wife, and I, and W. Hewer to White Hall, where she set us down; and there
I spoke with my Lord Peterborough, to tell him of the day for his dining with me being altered
by my Lord Sandwich from Friday to Saturday next.  Thence to my wife at Unthanke's, and with
her and W. Hewer to Hercules Pillars, calling to do two or three things by the way, end there
dined, and thence to the Duke of York's house, and saw "Twelfth Night," as it is now revived;
but, I think, one of the weakest plays that ever I saw on the stage. So, the play done, we
home, my wife letting fall some words of her observing my eyes to be mightily employed in the
playhouse, meaning upon women, which did vex me; but, however, when we come home, we were good
friends; and so to read, and to supper, and so to bed.

21st. Up, and walked to the Temple, it being frosty, and there took coach, my boy Tom with
me, and so to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier, where they met, and by and by and till
twelve at noon upon business, among others mine, where my desire about being eased of appointing
and standing accountable for a Treasurer there was well accepted, and they will think of some
other way.  This I was glad of, finding reason to doubt that I might in this (since my Lord
Sandwich made me understand what he had said to the Duke of York herein) fear to offend either
the Duke of York by denying it, for he seemed on Sunday night last, when I first made known
my desire to him herein to be a little amused at it, though I knew not then the reason, or
else offend my Lord Sandwich by accepting it, or denying it in a manner that might not forward
his desire for Sir Charles Harbord, but I thank God I did it to my great content without any
offence, I think, to either.  Thence in my own coach home, where I find Madam Turner, Dyke,
and The., and had a good dinner for them, and merry; and so carried them to the Duke of York's
house, all but Dyke, who went away on other business; and there saw "The Tempest;" but it is
but ill done by Gosnell, in lieu of Moll Davis. Thence set them at home, and my wife and I
to the 'Change, and so home, where my wife mighty dogged, and I vexed to see it, being mightily
troubled, of late, at her being out of humour, for fear of her discovering any new matter of
offence against me, though I am conscious of none; but do hate to be unquiet at home.  So,
late up, silent, and not supping, but hearing her utter some words of discontent to me with
silence, and so to bed, weeping to myself for grief, which she discerning, come to bed, and
mighty kind, and so with great joy on both sides to sleep.

22nd.  Up, and with W. Hewer to White Hall, and there attended the Duke of York, and thence
to the Exchange, in the way calling at several places on occasions relating to my feast to-morrow,
on which my mind is now set; as how to get a new looking-glass for my dining-room, and some
pewter, and good wine, against to-morrow; and so home, where I had the looking-glass set up,
cost me L6  7s. 6d.  So to supper, with much kindness between me and my wife, which, now-a-days,
is all my care, and so to bed.

23rd.  Up, and again to look after the setting things right against dinner, which I did to
very good content.  The truth is, I have some fear that I am more behind-hand in the world
for these last two years, since I have not, or for some time could not, look after my accounts,
which do a little allay my pleasure.  But I do trust in God I am pretty well yet, and resolve,
in a very little time, to look into my accounts, and see how they stand.  So to my wife's chamber,
and there supped, and got her cut my hair and look my shirt, for I have itched mightily these
6 or 7 days, and when all comes to all she finds that I am lousy, having found in my head and
body about twenty lice, little and great, which I wonder at, being more than I have had I believe
these 20 years.  I did think I might have got them from the little boy, but they did presently
look him, and found none.  So how they come I know not, but presently did shift myself, and
so shall be rid of them, and cut my hair close to my head, and so with much content to bed.
They must begin all anew.  Here he set me down, and I to my cozen Turner, and stayed and talked
a little; and so took my wife, and home, and there to make her read, and then to supper, and
to bed.  At supper come W. Batelier and supped with us, and told us many pretty things of France,
and the greatness of the present King.

25th.  Up, and to the Committee of Tangier, where little done, and thence I home by my own
coach, and busy after dinner at my office all the afternoon till late at night, that my eyes
were tired.  But he hath also brought a great many gloves perfumed, of several sorts; but all
too big by half for her, and yet she will have two or three dozen of them, which vexed me,
and made me angry.  So she, at last, to please me, did come to take what alone I thought fit,
which pleased me.  So, after a little supper, to bed, my eyes being very bad.

26th.  Up, and to the office, where busy sitting all the morning.  And so, this being done,
I took coach and took up my wife and straight home, and there late at the office busy, and
then home, and there I find W. Batelier hath also sent the books which I made him bring me
out of France.  Among others, L'Estat, de France, Marnix, &c., to my great content; and so
I was well pleased with them, and shall take a time to look them over: as also one or two printed
musick-books of songs; but my eyes are now too much out of tune to look upon them with any
pleasure, therefore to supper and to bed.

27th.  Up, and with Sir John Minnes in his coach to White Hall, where first we waited on the
Lords of the Treasury about finishing the Victualling Contract; and there also I was put to
it to make good our letter complaining against my Lord Anglesey's failing us in the payment
of the moneys assigned us upon the Customs, where Mr. Fenn was, and I know will tell my Lord;
but it is no matter, I am over shy already, and therefore must not fear.  Then we up to a Committee
of the Council for the Navy, about a business of Sir D. Gawden's relating to the Victualling,
and thence I by hackney to the Temple to the Auditor's man, and with him to a tavern to meet
with another under-auditor to advise about the clearing of my Lord Bellasses' accounts without
injuring myself and perplexing my accounts, and so thence away to my cozen Turner's, where
I find Roger Pepys come last night to town, and here is his mistress, Mrs. Dickenson, and by
and by comes in Mr. Turner, a worthy, sober, serious man--I honour him mightily.  My wife and
The. come after us, after they had been to buy some things abroad, and so after the play done
we to see them home, and then home ourselves, and my wife to read to me, and so to supper and
to bed.

28th.  So after a little reading to bed.

29th.  Thence home by hackney, calling Roger Pepys at the Temple gate in the bookseller's shop,
and to the Old Exchange, where I staid a little to invite my uncle Wight, and so home, and
there find my aunt Wight and her husband come presently, and so to dinner; and after dinner
Roger, and I, and my wife, and aunt, to see Mr. Cole; but he nor his wife was within, but we
looked upon his picture of Cleopatra, which I went principally to see, being so much commended
by my wife and aunt; but I find it a base copy of a good originall, that vexed me to hear so
much commended. Thence to see Creed's wife, and did so, and staid a while, where both of them
within; and here I met Mr. Bland, newly come from Gales [Cadiz] after his differences with
Norwood.  I think him a foolish, light-headed man; but certainly he hath been abused in this
matter by Colonel Norwood. Here Creed shewed me a copy of some propositions, which Bland and
others, in the name of the Corporation of Tangier, did present to Norwood, for his opinion
in, in order to the King's service, which were drawn up very humbly, and were really good things;
but his answer to them was in the most shitten proud, carping, insolent, and ironically-prophane
stile, that ever I saw in my life, so as I shall never think the place can do well, while he
is there. Here, after some talk, and Creed's telling us that he is upon taking the next house
to his present lodgings, which is next to that that my cozen Tom Pepys once lived in, in Newport
Street, in Covent Garden; and is in a good place, and then, I suppose, he will keep his coach.
So, setting Roger down at the Temple, who tells me that he is now concluded in all matters
with his widow, we home, and there hired my wife to make an end of Boyle's Book of Formes,
to-night and to-morrow; and so fell to read and sup, and then to bed.  This day, Mr. Ned Pickering
brought his lady to see my wife, in acknowledgment of a little present of oranges and olives,
which I sent her, for his kindness to me in the buying of my horses, which was very civil.
She is old, but hath, I believe, been a pretty comely woman:

30th.  Lay long in bed, it being a fast-day for the murder of the late King; and so up and
to church, where Dr. Hicks made a dull sermon; and so home, and there I find W. Batelier and
Balty, and they dined with us, and I spent all the afternoon with my wife and W. Batelier talking,
and then making them read, and particularly made an end of Mr. Boyle's Book of Formes, which
I am glad to have over, and then fell to read a French discourse, which he hath brought over
with him for me, to invite the people of France to apply themselves to Navigation, which it
do very well, and is certainly their interest, and what will undo us in a few years, if the
King of France goes on to fit up his Navy, and encrease it and his trade, as he hath begun.
At night to supper, and after supper, and W. Batelier gone, my wife begun another book I lately
bought, called "The State of England," which promises well, and is worth reading, and so after
a while to bed.

31st (Lord's day).  And, the truth is, I did observe Mrs. Hollworthy smile often, and many
others of the parish, who, I perceive, have known him, and were in mighty expectation of hearing
him preach, but could not forbear smiling, and she particularly upon me, and I on her.  So
home to dinner: and before dinner to my Office, to set down my journal for this week, and then
home to dinner; and after dinner to get my wife and boy, one after another, to read to me:
and so spent the afternoon and the evening, and so after supper to bed.  And thus endeth this
month, with many different days of sadness and mirth, from differences between me and my wife,
from her remembrance of my late unkindness to her with Willet, she not being able to forget
it, but now and then hath her passionate remembrance of it as often as prompted to it by any
occasion; but this night we are at present very kind.  And so ends this month.

