Patrick endeavoured to avoid all appearance of seeking his own gain or glory.  A man who, according
to the judgment of men, was not fitted to effect such great things, who from obscurity and
poverty had been called to so high a place, and in whom therefore, as is frequently the case,
those who had formerly known him after the flesh would not recognise what the Spirit had accomplished,
such a man was obliged, with all the more circumspection, to avoid giving any occasion to those
who were disposed to declare a thing which they could neither measure nor comprehend by the
common standard, altogether beyond flesh and blood.  When many, full of love and gratitude
to the teacher of salvation, their spiritual father, freely offered him gifts, and pious women
offered their ornaments, Patrick, although the donors were at first offended at it, in order
to avoid all evil report, declined everything.  He himself gave presents to the heathen chiefs,
in order thereby to purchase peace for himself and his churches; he ransomed many Christians
from captivity; and was himself prepared, as a good shepherd, to lay down all, even to his
life, for his sheep.  In his confession of faith, which, after labouring for thirty years in
this calling, he addressed to his converts, he says: "That ye may rejoice in me, and I may
ever rejoice in you in the Lord, I repent not what I have done, and even now it is not enough
for me, I shall go further and sacrifice much more.  The Lord is mighty to confirm me yet more,
that I may yield up my life for your souls.  I call God to witness in my soul, that I have
not written this to seek glory from you.  The glory which is not seen, but believed on in the
heart is enough for me. Faithful is that God who hath promised, and he lieth not.  But already
in this world I behold myself exalted above measure by the Lord.  I know very well that poverty
and hardship suit me better than wealth and ease; yea, even the Lord Christ became poor for
our sakes.  Daily have I expected to be seized, carried into captivity, or slain; but I fear
none of these things, because of the promises of heaven; for I have cast myself into the arms
of the Almighty God, who reigns everywhere, as it is said in the Psalm, 'Cast thy burden upon
the Lord, and he shall sustain thee.'  Now I commend my soul to my faithful God, whom in my
insignificance I serve as his messenger.  For since with Him there is no respect of persons,
and since He has chosen me for this calling, that I as one of the least of His people, should
serve Him, what shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits?  What shall I say or promise
unto my Lord?  For I can do nothing, unless He himself give it me!  But He trieth the hearts
and reins, and He knoweth how greatly I long that He may give me to drink of the cup of His
sufferings, as He has granted to others who love Him.  I pray God that He may give me perseverance,
and enable me to bear a faithful witness until my departure.  And if I have striven after anything
good for my God's sake, whom I love, I beseech Him that I, with those my new converts who have
fallen into captivity, may shed my blood for his Name's sake, even though I should never be
buried, even though my body should be torn in pieces by wild beasts.  I believe firmly that
if this should befall me, I should gain my body as well as my soul; for undoubtedly, in that
day, we shall arise and shine like the sun, that is, in the glory of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ,
who is the Son of the living God, as joint heirs with Christ, renewed in His image; for by
Him, through Him, and with Him shall we reign.  That sun which we see, rises daily for us by
God's command; but it will never reign, and its brightness will not last for ever.  All those
also who worship it will (unhappy ones!) draw down punishment on themselves.