We were not plaster saints, but we were either Idealistic and perhaps foolish people who attached
great importance to the freedom and security of small nations and all those items in the programme
of idealistic Radicalism, or else we were good, red-hot, true-blue Jingoes with a hearty hatred
for Germany, and enjoyed the thought that the big fight which we had long foreseen between
the two countries was at last going to be fought out. Or, again, we were just commonplace people
who did not much believe in idealistic Radicalism or anti-German bitterness, but saw that the
whole future of our country was at stake, and were prepared to do anything for it. A fine example
was set us in those days by the Trade Union leaders. The industrial world was seething with
discontent. The Suffragettes in London and the Carsonites in Ireland had shown us how much
could be done by appeals to physical force in a lazy-minded community; and hints of industrial
revolution, with great organised strikes, which were going to tie up the transport industry
of the country were in the air. And then, when the war came, the Labour leaders said, "No strikes
until the war is over. Our country comes first."

This was the lead given to the country by those down at the bottom, who had the least to lose,
and whose patriotism during the course of the war has frequently been questioned. At the top
the financial and property-owning classes, having been saved by Mr Lloyd George's able adroitness
from a bad crisis in the City, were entirely tame, and would have suffered anything in the
way of taxation or financial conscription if the need for it had been properly put before them.

It is almost amusing to remember now that in those early days of the war the shareholders in
Home Railway companies were thought lucky. The Government were taking the railways over, and
were guaranteeing that their proprietors should receive the same dividends as they had had
before the war. Such was the view in financial and property-owning circles of results of war
that, so far from any expectation of the huge profits which war has put into the pockets of
certain classes, they were only too thankful if they could be assured that their gross incomes
were not going to be reduced.

Such was the spirit with which the Government of that day had to deal. A spirit in all classes
earnestly patriotic, and so thoroughly frightened of the economic consequences of the war that
it would have been ready to face any sacrifices that the Government had asked of it. How, then,
would the Government have dealt with this spirit if it had taken the trouble really to think
out the problem of war finance on a long view instead of proceeding along a haphazard line,
adjusting peace methods to war without any consideration as to their adequacy? If the problem
had been really thought out beforehand the Government must have seen clearly that the real
economic problem in war-time is not merely a question of raising money, since that can at any
time be done easily by means of a printing-press, but of diverting the industrial energy of
the nation from peace to war purposes, that is to say, transferring from the enjoyment of the
individual citizen the goods and services that used to contribute to his comfort and amusement,
and turning them over to the provision of the things needed for the war. War's needs can only
be met out of the current production of the world as it is at present. All the warring powers
begin a war with certain accumulated war stores consisting of battleships, ammunition, guns
and all other forms of war material. Apart from these stores with which they begin, the whole
work of providing the armies with the fighting materials that they require, and the food and
clothes that they consume, has to be done during the course of the war, that is to say, out
of the current production of the moment.

Therefore the real economic problem that any Government has to face in war-time is that of
inducing its citizens to reduce their purchase of goods and services, that is to say, to spend
less, so that all the things required for the Army and Navy may be obtained by the Government.
It is true that some of the goods and services required for carrying on war can be obtained
from foreign countries by any belligerent which is able to communicate with them freely. In
that case the current production of the foreigner can be called in to help. But this can only
be done if the warring country is able to ship goods to the foreigner in payment for what it
buys, or if it is able to obtain a loan from the foreigner, or some other foreign country,
in order to pay for its purchases abroad, or again, if, as in our case, it holds a large accumulation
of securities which foreign countries are prepared to take in exchange for goods that they
send for the purposes of the war. By these two last-named processes, raising money abroad,
and selling securities to foreign nations, the warring country impoverishes itself for the
future. When it borrows abroad it pledges itself to export goods and services in future to
meet interest and sinking fund on the money so raised, so getting no goods and services in
return. When it ships its accumulated wealth in the form of securities it gives up for the
future any claim to goods and services from the debtor country which used to come to it to
meet interest and redemption. It is only by shipping goods in return for goods imported for
the war that a country can keep its financial staying-power on an even keel.

Thus the problem which a statesman who had thought out the economics of war beforehand would
have recognised as the keystone of his policy, would have been that of diverting the activities
of the country from providing itself with comforts and amusements to turning out goods required
for war, and of doing so with the least possible friction, the least possible alteration in
the economic equilibrium of the country, and, above all, with the least possible cost to the
national finances. We arrive at the true aspect of this problem more easily if we leave out
the question of money altogether and think of it in units of energy. When a nation goes to
war it means to say that it has to apply so many units of energy to the business of fighting,
and to provide the fighters with all that they need. If at the beginning of the war its utmost
capacity of output was, to mention merely a fanciful figure, a thousand million units of energy,
and if it was clear that the fighting forces of the country would need for their proper maintenance
five hundred million units of energy, then it is clear that the nation's ordinary consumption
of goods and services would have to be reduced to the extent of five hundred millions of units
of energy, which would have to be applied to the war, that is, assuming that its possible output
remained the same.

In other words, the spending power of the citizens of the country had to be reduced so that
the industrial energy that used to go into meeting their wants might be made available for
the purposes of fighting forces. Now what was the straightest, simplest and cleanest way of
bringing about this reduction in buying power on the part of the ordinary citizen which has
been shown to be necessary for the purposes of war finance? Clearly the best way of doing it
is by taxation equitably imposed. When the State taxes, it says in effect to the citizens,
"Your country needs certain goods and services, you therefore will have to go without those
goods and services, and the simplest way to make you do this is to take away your money and
so ration your buying power. Whatever is needed for the Army and Navy will be taken away from
you by taxation, and the result of this will be that, instead of your indulging in comforts
and luxuries, to the extent of the war's needs the Government will use your money for paying
for what is needed for the Army and Navy."

If such a policy had been carried out the cost of the war to the community would have been
enormously cheapened. There need have been no general rise in prices because there would have
been no increase in demand for goods and services. Anything that the Government spent would
have been counter-balanced by decreased spending by the individual; any work that the Government
needed for the war would have been counter-balanced by a reduction in demand for work on the
part of individual citizens. There would have been no multiplication of currency owing to enormous
credits raised by the Government; there would have been merely a transfer of buying power from
individuals to the State. The process would have been gradual, there need have been no acute
dislocation, but as the cost of the war increased, that is to say, as the Government needed
more and more goods and services for its prosecution, the community would gradually have shed
one after another the extravagances on which it spent so many hundreds of millions in days
before the war. As it shed these extravagances the labour and energy needed to produce them
would have been automatically transferred to the service of the war, or to the production of
necessaries of life. By this simple process of monetary rationing all the frantic appeals for
economy, and most of the complicated, tangled problems raised by such matters as Food Control
or National Service would have been avoided.

But, it may be contended, this is setting up an ideal so absurdly too high that you cannot
expect any modern nation to rise up to it. Perhaps this is true, though I am not at all sure
that if we had had a really bold and far-sighted Finance Minister at the beginning of the war
he might not have persuaded the nation to tackle its war problem on this exalted line. At least
it can be claimed that our financial rulers might have looked into the history of the matter
and seen what our ancestors had done in big wars in this matter of paying for war costs out
of taxation, with the determination to do at least as well as they did, and perhaps rather
better, owing to the overwhelming scale of modern financial problems. If they had done so they
would have found that both in the Napoleonic and the Crimean wars we paid for nearly half the
cost of the war out of revenue as they went on, whereas in the present war the proportion that
we are paying by taxation, instead of being 47 per cent., as it was when our sturdy ancestors
fought against Napoleon, is less than 20 per cent.[1] Why has this been so? Partly, no doubt,
owing to the slackness and cowardice of our politicians, and the apathy of the overworked officials,
who have been too busy with the details of finance to think the problem out on a large scale.
But it is chiefly, I think, because our system of taxation, though probably the best in the
world, involves so many inequities that it cannot be applied on a really large scale without
producing a discontent which might have had serious consequences on our conduct of the war.

[Footnote 1: See Economist, August 4, 1917, p. 151.]

It is not possible nowadays, now that the working classes are conscious of their strength,
to apply taxation to ordinary articles of general consumption with anything like the ruthlessness
which in former days produced such widespread misery. Indirect taxation of this kind carries
with it this inherent weakness that its burden falls most heavily on those who are least able
to bear it, consequently it is bound to break in the hand of those who attempt to apply it
with anything like vigour to a community which is prepared to stand up for fair treatment.
A tax on bread or salt obviously hits the wage-earner at 30s. a week infinitely harder than
it hits the millionaire, and so the country would not tolerate taxes on bread or salt. Direct
taxes, such as Income Tax and Death Duties, have this enormous advantage, that they can really
be regulated so as to press with continually increasing severity upon those who are best able
to bear them. Unfortunately our Income Tax is still so unjustly imposed that it was clearly
impossible to make full use of it without its being first reformed. That two men, each earning
£1000 a year, should pay the same Income Tax, in spite of one having a wife and five children,
while the other is a careless bachelor, is such a blot upon this otherwise excellent tax that
it is generally agreed that the present rate of 5s. is as high as it can be made to go unless
some reform is introduced into its incidence. The need for its reform is made the excuse for
a sparing use of the tax, and we have been on several occasions assured that, as soon as the
war is over, this reform will be set about.

In the meantime the Government falls back on funding about 80 per cent. of its requirements
of the war on a system of borrowing. In so far as the money subscribed to its loans is money
that is being genuinely saved by investors this process has exactly the same effect as taxation,
that is to say, somebody goes without goods and services and hands over his power to buy them
to the State to be used for the war. Borrowing of this kind consequently does everything that
is needed for the solution of the immediate war problem, and the only objection to it is that
it leaves later on the difficulties involved by raising taxes when the war is over, and economic
problems are much more complicated in times of peace than in war, for meeting the interest
and redemption of debt. But, in fact, it is well known that by no means all that the Government
has borrowed for war purposes has been provided in this way. Much of the money that the Government
has obtained for war purposes has been got not out of genuine savings of investors, but by
arrangements of various kinds with the banking machinery of the country, or by the simple use
of the printing-press, with the result that the Government has provided itself with an enormous
mass of new currency which has not been taken out of anybody else's pocket, but has been manufactured
by or for the Government.

The consequence of the profligate use of this dishonest process is that general rise in prices,
which is in effect an indirect tax on the necessaries of life, involving all the injustice
and ill-feeling which arises from such a measure. It is inevitable that the working classes,
finding themselves subjected to a rise in prices, the cause of which they do not understand,
but the result of which they see to be a great decrease in the buying power of their wages,
should believe that they are being exploited by profiteers, that the rich classes are growing
richer at their expense out of the war, and that they and the country are being bled by a set
of unpatriotic capitalist blood-suckers. It is also natural that the property-owning classes,
who find themselves paying an Income Tax which they regard as extortionate, should consider
that the working classes by their continuous demands for higher wages to meet higher cost of
living, are trying to exploit the country in their own interests in a time of national crisis,
and displaying a most unedifying spirit. The social result of this evil policy of inflation,
in embittering class against class, is a matter which it is difficult to exaggerate. Some people
think that it was inevitable. This is too wide a question to be entered into now, but at least
it must be contended that if it is inevitable the extent to which it is being practised might
have been very greatly diminished.

Do we mean to go on to the end of the war with this muddling policy of bad finance? If we still
insist on believing that the war cannot last another six months, and there is therefore no
need to pull ourselves up short financially and put things in order, then we certainly shall
do so. But we should surely recognise that there is at least a chance that the war may go on
for years, that if so our present financial methods will leave us with a burden of debt which
is appalling to consider, and that in any case, whether the war lasts another six months or
another six years, a reform of our financial methods is long overdue, is inevitable some time,
and will pay us better the sooner it is set about.

In the November number of Sperling's Journal I dealt with the question of how our war finance
might have been improved if a longer view had been taken from the beginning concerning the
length of the war and the measures that would be necessary for raising the money. The subject
was too big to be fully covered in the course of one article, and I have been given this opportunity
of continuing its examination. Before doing so I wish to remind my readers once more of the
great difference in the spirit of the country with regard to financial self-sacrifice in the
early days of the war and at the present time, after three years of high profits, public and
private extravagance, and successful demands for higher wages have demoralised the public temper
into a belief that war is a time for making big profits and earning big wages at the expense
of the community. In the early days the spirit of the country was very different, and it might
have remained so if it had been trained by the use made of public finance along the right line.
In the early days the Labour leaders announced that there were to be no strikes during the
war, and the property-owning classes, with their hearts full of gratitude for the promptitude
with which Mr Lloyd George had met the early war crisis, were ready to do anything that the
country asked from them in the matter of monetary sacrifice. Mr Asquith's grandiloquent phrase,
"No price is too high when Honour is at stake," might then have been taken literally by all
classes of the community as a call to them to do their financial duty. Now it has been largely
translated into a belief that no price is too high to exact from the Government by those who
have goods to sell to it, or work to place at its disposal. In considering what might have
been in matters of finance we have to be very careful to remember this evil change which has
taken place in the public spirit owing to the short-sighted financial measures which have been
taken by our rulers.

Thus, when we consider how our war finance might have been improved, we imply all along that
the improvements suggested should have been begun when the war was in its early stages, and
when public opinion was still ready to do its duty in finance. The conclusion at which we arrived
a month ago was that by taxation rather than by borrowing and inflation much more satisfactory
results could have been got out of the country. If, instead of manufacturing currency for the
prosecution of the war, the Government had taken money from the citizens either by taxation
or by loans raised exclusively out of real savings, the rise in prices which has made the war
so terribly costly, and has raised so great a danger through the unrest and dissatisfaction
of the working classes, might have been to a great extent avoided, and the higher the rate
of taxation had been, and the less the amount provided by loans, the less would have been the
seriousness of the problem that now awaits us when the war is over and we have to face the
question of the redemption of the debt.

In this matter of taxation we have certainly done much more than any of the countries who are
fighting either with us or against us. Germany set the example at the beginning of the war
of raising no money at all by taxation, puffed up with the vain belief that the cost of the
war, and a good deal more, was going to be handed over to her in the shape of indemnities by
her vanquished enemies. This terrible miscalculation on her part led her to set a very bad
example to the warring Powers, and when protests are made in this country concerning the low
proportion of the war's costs that is being met out of taxation it is easy for the official
apologist to answer, "See how much more we are doing than Germany." It is easy, but it is not
a good answer. Germany had no financial prestige to maintain; the money that Germany is raising
for financing the war is raised almost entirely at home, and she rejoices in a population so
entirely tame under a dominant caste that it would very likely be quite easy for her, when,
the war is over, to cancel a large part of the debt by some process of financial jugglery,
and to induce her tame and deluded creditors to believe that they have been quite handsomely
treated.

Here, however, in England, we have a financial prestige which is based upon financial leadership
of more than a century. We have also raised a large part of the money we have used for the
prosecution of the war by borrowing abroad, and so we have to be specially careful in husbanding
that credit, which is so strong a weapon on the side of liberty and justice. And, further,
we have a public which thinks for itself, and will be highly sceptical, and is already inclined
to be sceptical, concerning the manner in which the Government may treat the national creditors.
Its tendency to think for itself in matters of finance is accompanied by very gross ignorance,
which very often induces it to think quite wrongly; and when we find it necessary for the Chancellor
of the Exchequer to make it clear at a succession of public meetings that those who subscribe
to War Loans need have no fear that their property in them will be treated worse than any other
kinds of property, we see what evil results the process of too much borrowing and too little
taxation can have in a community which is acutely suspicious and distrustful of its Government,
and very liable to ignorant blundering on financial subjects.

What, then, might have been done if, at the beginning of the war, a really courageous Government,
with some power of foreseeing the needs of finance for several years ahead if the war lasted,
had made a right appeal to a people which was at that time ready to do all that was asked from
it for the cause of justice against the common foe? The problem by which the Government was
faced was this, that it had to acquire for the war an enormous and growing amount of goods
and services required by our fighting forces, some of which could only be got from abroad,
and some could only be produced at home, while at the same time it had to maintain the civilian
population with such a supply of the necessaries of life as would maintain them in efficiency
for doing the work at home which was required to support the effort of our fighters at the
Front. With regard to the goods which came from abroad, either for war purposes or for the
maintenance of the civilian population, the Government obviously had no choice about the manner
in which payment had to be made. It had no power to tax the suppliers in foreign countries
of the goods and services that we needed during the war period. It consequently could only
induce them to supply these goods and services by selling them either commodities produced
by our own industry, or securities held by our capitalists, or its own promises to pay.

With regard to the goods that we might have available for export, these were likely to be curtailed
owing to the diversion of a large number of our industrial population into the ranks of the
Army and into munition factories. This curtailment, on the other hand, might to a certain extent
be made good by a reduction in consumption on the part of the civilian population, so setting
free a larger proportion of our manufacturing energy for the production of goods for export.
Otherwise the problem of paying for goods purchased from abroad could only be solved by the
export of securities, and by borrowing from foreign countries, so that the shells and other
war material that were required, for example, from America, might be paid for by American investors
in consideration of receiving from us a promise to pay them back some day, and to pay them
interest in the meantime. In other words, we could only pay for what we needed from abroad
by shipping goods or securities. As is well known, we have financed the war by these methods
to an enormous extent; the actual extent to which we have done so is not known, but it is believed
that we have roughly balanced by this process the sums that we have lent to our Allies and
Dominions, which now amount to well over 1300 millions.

If this is so, we have, in fact, financed the whole of the real cost of the war to ourselves
at home, and we have done so by taxation, by borrowing saved money, and by inflation--that
is to say, by the manufacture of new currency, with the inevitable result of depreciating the
buying power of our existing currency as a whole. How much better could the thing have been
done? In other words, how much of the war's cost in so far as it was raised at home could have
been raised by taxation? In theory the answer is very simple, for in theory the whole cost
of the war, in so far as it is raised at home, could have been raised by taxation if it could
have been raised at all. It is not possible to raise more by any other method than it is theoretically
possible to raise by taxation. It is often said, "All this preaching about taxation is all
very well, but you couldn't possibly get anything like the amount that is needed for the war
by taxation, or even by borrowing of saved money. This inflation against which economic theorists
are continually railing is inevitable in time of war because there isn't enough money in the
country to provide all that is needed."

This argument is simply the embodiment of the old delusion, so common among people who handle
the machinery of finance, that you can really increase the supply of necessary goods by increasing
the supply of money, which is nothing else than claims to goods expressed either in pieces
of metal or pieces of paper. As we have seen, all that we have been able to raise abroad has
been required for advances to our Allies and Dominions, consequently we have had to fall back
upon our own home production for everything needed for our own war costs. Either we have turned
out the goods at home or we have turned out goods to sell to foreigners in exchange for goods
that we require from them. But since we thus had to rely on home production for the whole of
the war's needs as far as we were concerned, it is clear that the Government could, if it had
been gifted with ideal courage and devotion, and if it had a people behind it ready to do all
that was needed for victory, have taken the whole of the home production, except what was wanted
for maintaining the civilian population in efficiency, for the purposes of the war.

It is a commonplace of political theory that the Government has a right to take the whole of
the property and the whole of the labour of its citizens. But it would not, of course, have
been possible for the Government immediately to inaugurate a policy of setting everybody to
work on things required for the war and paying them all a maintenance wage. This might have
been done in theory, but in practice it would have involved questions of industrial conscription,
which would probably have raised a storm of difficulty. What the Government might have done
would have been by commandeering the buying power of the citizen to have set free the whole
industrial energy of the community for supplying the war's needs and the necessaries of life.
At present the national output, which is only another way of expressing the national income,
is produced from certain channels of production in response to the expectation of demand from
those whose possession of claims to goods, that is to say, money, gives them the right to say
what kind of goods they will consume, and consequently the industrial part of the population
will produce.

Had the Government laid down that the whole cost of the war was to be borne by taxation, the
effect of this measure would have been that everything which was needed for the war would have
been placed at the disposal of the Government by a reduction in spending on the part of those
who have the spending power. In other words, the only process required would have been the
readjustment of industrial output from the production of goods needed (or thought to be needed)
for ordinary individuals to those required for war purposes. This readjustment would have gone
on gradually as the war's cost increased. There would have been no competition between the
Government and private individuals for a limited amount of goods in a restricted market, which
has had such a disastrous effect on prices during the course of the war; there would have been
no manufacture of new currency, which means the creation of new buying power at a time when
there are less goods to buy, which has had an equally fatal effect on prices; there would have
had to be a very drastic reform in our system of taxation, by which the income tax, the only
really equitable engine by which the Government can get much money out of us, would have been
reformed so as to have borne less hardly upon those with families to bring up.

Mr Sidney Webb and the Fabians have advocated a system by which the basis of assessment for
income tax should be the income divided by the number of members of a family, rather than the
mere income without any consideration for the number of people that have to be provided for
out of it. With some such scheme as this adopted there is no reason why the Government should
not have taken, for example, the whole of all incomes above £1000 a year for each individual,
due allowance being made for obligations, such as rent, which involve long contracts. For any
single individual to want to spend more than £1000 a year on himself or herself at such a crisis
would have been recognised, in the early days of the war, as an absurdity; any surplus above
that line might readily have been handed over to the Government, half of it perhaps in taxation
and the other half in the form of a forced loan.

So sweeping a change would not have been necessary at first, perhaps not at all, because the
war's cost would not have grown nearly so rapidly. All surplus income above a certain line
would have been taken for the time being, but with the promise to repay half the amount taken,
so that it should not be made a disadvantage to be rich, and no discouragement to accumulation
would have been brought about. By this means the whole of the nation's buying power among the
richer classes would have been concentrated upon the war, with the result that the private
extravagance, which is still disgracing us in the fourth year of the war, would not have been
allowed to produce its evil effects. With the rich thus drastically taxed, the working classes
would have been much less restive under the application of income tax to their own wages. We
should have a much more freely supplied labour market, and since the rise in prices would not
have been nearly so severe, labour's claim to higher wages would have been much less equitable,
and labour's power to enforce the claim would have been much less irresistible.

What the Government has actually done has been to do a little bit of taxation, much more than
anybody else, but still a little bit when compared with the total cost of the war; a great
deal of borrowing, and a great deal of inflation. By this last-named method it produces the
result required, that of diverting to itself a large part of the industrial output of the country,
by the very worst possible means. It still, by its failure to tax, leaves buying power in the
hands of a large number of people who see no reason why they should not live very much as usual;
that is to say, why they should not demand for their own purposes a proportion of the nation's
energy which they have no real right to require at such a time of crisis. But in order to check
their demands, and to provide its own needs, the Government, by setting the bankers to work
to provide it with book credits, gives itself an enormous amount of new buying power with which,
by the process of competition, it secures for itself what is needed for the war. There is thus
throughout the country this unwholesome process of competition between the Government on one
hand and unpatriotic spenders on the other, who, between them, put up prices against the Government
and against all those unfortunate, defenceless people who, being in possession of fixed salaries,
or of fixed incomes, have no remedy against rising prices and rising taxation. All that could
possibly have been spent on the war in this country was the total income of the people, less
what was required for maintaining the people in health and efficiency. That total income Government
might, in theory, have taken. If it had done so it could and would have paid for the whole
of the war out of taxation.

All this, I shall be told, is much too theoretical and idealistic; these things could not have
been done in practice. Perhaps not, though it is by no means certain, when we look back on
the very different temper that ruled In the country in the early months of the war. If anything
of the kind could have been done it would certainly have been a practical proof of determination
for the war which would have shown more clearly than anything else that "no price was too high
when Honour was at stake." It would also have been an extraordinary demonstration to the working
classes of the sacrifices that property owners were ready to make, the result of which might
have been that the fine spirit shown at the beginning of the war might have been maintained
until the end, instead of degenerating into a series of demands for higher wages, each one
of which, as conceded to one set of workmen, only stimulates another to demand the same. But
even if we grant that it is only theoretically possible to have performed such a feat as is
outlined above, there is surely no question that much more might have been done than has been
done in the matter of paying for the war by taxation. If we are reminded once more that our
ancestors paid nearly half the cost of the Napoleonic war out of revenue, while we are paying
about a fifth of the cost of the present war from the same source, it is easy to see that a
much greater effort might have been made in view of the very much greater wealth of the country
at the present time. I was going to have added, in view also of its greater economic enlightenment,
but I feel that after the experience of the present war, and its financing by currency debasement,
the less about economic enlightenment the better.

What, then, stood in the way of measures of finance which would have obviously had results
so much more desirable than those which will face us at the end of the war? As it is, the nation,
with all classes embittered owing to suspicions of profiteering on the part of the employers
and of unpatriotic strikes on the part of the workers, will have to face a load of debt, the
service of which is already roughly equivalent to our total pre-war revenue; while there seems
every prospect that the war may continue for many half-years yet, and every half-year, as it
is at present financed, leaves us with a load of debt which will require the total yield of
the income tax and the super-tax before the war to meet the charge upon it. Why have we allowed
our present finance to go so wrong? In the first place, perhaps, we may put the bad example
of Germany. Then, surely, our rulers might have known better than to have been deluded by such
an example. In the second place, it was the cowardice of the politicians, who had not the sense
in the early days of the war to see how eager the spirit of the country was to do all that
the war required of it, and consequently were afraid to tax at a time when higher taxation
would have been submitted to most cheerfully by the country. There was also the absurd weakness
of our Finance Ministers and our leading financial officials, which allowed our financial machinery
to be so much weakened by the demands of the War Office for enlistment that it has been said
in the House of Commons by several Chancellors of the Exchequer that it is quite impossible
to consider any form of new taxation because the machinery could not undertake it. There has
also been great short-sightedness on the part of the business men of the country, who have
failed to give the Government a lead in this important matter. Like the Government, they have
taken short views, always hoping that the war might soon be over, and so have left the country
with a problem that grows steadily more serious with each half-year as we drift stupidly along
the line of least resistance.

Such war finance as I have outlined--drastic and impracticable as it seems--would have paid
us. Taxation in war-time, when industry's problem is simplified by the Government's demand
for its product, hurts much less than in peace, when industry has not only to turn out the
stuff, but also find a buyer--often a more difficult and expensive problem. There is a general
belief that by paying for war by loans we hand the business of paying for it on to posterity.
In fact, we can no more make posterity pay us back our money than we can carry on war with
goods that posterity will produce. Whatever posterity produces it will consume. Whatever it
pays in interest and amortisation of our war debt, it will pay to itself. We cannot get a farthing
out of posterity. All we can do, by leaving it a debt charge, is to affect the distribution
of its wealth among its members. Each loan that we raise makes us taxpayers collectively poorer
now, to the extent of the capital value of the charge on our incomes that it involves. The
less we thus charge our productive power, and the more we pay up in taxes as the war goes on,
the readier we shall be to play a leading part in the great time of reconstruction.

By some curious mental process the idea of a levy on capital has come into rapidly increasing
prominence in the last few months, and seems to be gaining popularity in quarters where one
would least expect it. On the other hand, it is naturally arousing intense opposition, both
among those who would be most closely affected by its imposition, and also among those who
view with grave concern the possible and probable economic effects of such a system of dealing
with the national debt. I say "dealing with the national debt" because, as will be clear, as
a system of raising money for the war the suggestion of the levy on capital has little or nothing
to recommend it. But, as will also be made clear, the proposal has been put forward as a thing
to be done immediately in order to increase the funds in the hands of the Chancellor of the
Exchequer to be spent on war purposes.

A levy on capital is, of course, merely a variation of the tax on property, which has long
existed in the United States, and had been resorted to before now by Governments, of which
the German Government is a leading example, in order to provide funds for a special emergency.
This it can very easily do as long as the levy is not too high. If, for example, you tax a
man to the extent of 1-1/2 per cent. to 2 per cent. of the value of his property, on which
he may be earning an average of 5 to 6 per cent. in interest, then the levy on capital becomes
merely a form of income tax, assessed not according to the income of the taxpayer but according
to the alleged value of his property. It is thus, again, a variation of the system long adopted
in this country of a special rate of income tax on what is called "unearned" income, i.e. income
from invested property. But it is only when one begins to adopt the broadminded views lately
fashionable of the possibilities of a levy on capital and to talk of taking, say, 20 per cent.
of the value of a man's property from him in the course of a year, that it becomes evident
that he cannot be expected to pay anything like this sum, in cash, unless either a market is
somehow provided--which seems difficult if all property owners at once are to be mulcted of
a larger amount than their incomes--or unless the Government is prepared to accept part at
least of the levy in the shape of property handed over at a valuation.

Before, however, we come to deal in detail with the difficulties and drawbacks of the suggestion,
it may be interesting to trace the history of the movement in its favour, and to see some of
the forms in which it has been put forward. It may be said that the ball was opened early last
September when, in the Daily News of the 8th of that month, its able and always interesting
editor dealt in one of his illuminating Saturday articles with the question of "How to Pay
for the War." He began with the assumption that the capital of the individuals of the nation
has increased during the war from 16,000 millions to 20,000 millions. A 10 per cent. levy on
this, he proceeded, would realise 2000 millions. It would extinguish debt to that amount and
reduce the interest on debt by 120 millions. The levy would be graduated--say, 5 per cent.
on fortunes of £1000 to £20,000; 10 per cent. on £20,000 to £50,000; up to 30 per cent. on
sums over £1,000,000; and the individual taxpayer was to pay the levy "in what form was convenient,
in his stocks or his shares, his houses or his fields, in personalty or realty."

Just about the same time the Round Table, a quarterly magazine which is usually most illuminating
on the subject of finance, chimed in with a more or less similar suggestion in an article on
"Finance After the War." It remarked that the difficulty of applying a levy on capital is "probably
not so great as appears at first sight." The total capital wealth of the community it estimated
at about 24,000 millions sterling. To pay off a war debt of 3000 millions would therefore require
a levy of one-eighth. Evidently this could not be raised in money, nor would it be necessary.
Holders of War Loans would pay their proportion in a simple way by surrendering one-eighth
of their scrip. Holders of other forms of property would be assessed for one-eighth of its
value and be called on to acquire and to surrender to the State the same amount of War Loan
scrip. To do this, they would be obliged to realise a part of their property or to mortgage
it, "but," added the Round Table cheerfully, "there is no insuperable difficulty about that."

The first thing that strikes one when one examines these two schemes is the difference in their
view concerning the amount of capital wealth available for taxation. Mr Gardiner made the comparatively
modest estimate of 16,000 millions to 20,000 millions; the Round Table plumps for 24,000 millions,
and, incidentally, it may be remarked that some conservative estimates put it as low as 11,000
millions. Thus we have a possible range for the fancy of the scheme builder of from 11,000
to 24,000 millions in the property on which taxation is proposed to be levied. But it is when
we come to the details of these schemes that the difficulties begin to glare. Mr Gardiner tells
us that millionaires would pay up to 30 per cent. of their property, and that they would pay
in what form was convenient, in houses, fields, etc., etc. But he does not explain by what
principle the Government is to distribute among the holders of the debt, the repayment of whom
is the object of the levy, the strange assortment of miscellaneous assets which it would thus
collect from the property owners of the country.

In commenting on this scheme the Economist of September 15th took the case of a man with a
fortune of £100,000 invested before the war in a well-assorted list of securities, the whole
of which he had, for patriotic reasons, converted during the war into War Loans. He would have
no difficulty about paying his capital levy, for he would obviously surrender something between
10 and 20 per cent. of his holding. But, "in exchange for nearly two-thirds of the rest, he
might find himself landed with houses and bits of land all over the country, a batch of unsaleable
mining shares, a collection of blue china, a pearl necklace, a Chippendale sideboard, and a
doubtful Titian," The Round Table's suggestion seems to be even more impracticable.

The next stage in the proceedings was a deputation to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, concerning
which more anon, of leaders of various groups of the Labour Party, to press upon Mr Bonar Law
the principle of what is called "the Conscription of Wealth," and the publication at or soon
after that time, which was about the middle of November, of a pamphlet on the subject of the
"Conscription of Riches," by the War Emergency Workers' National Committee, 1, Victoria Street,
S.W. Among what this pamphlet describes as "the three practicable methods of conscripting wealth"
No. 1 is as follows:--

A Capital Tax, on the lines of the present Death Duties, which are graduated from nothing (on
estates under £300, and legacies under £20) up to about 20 per cent. (on very large estates
left as legacies to strangers).

If a "Death Duty" at the existing rates were now levied simultaneously on every person in the
kingdom possessing over £300 wealth (every person might be legally deemed to have died, and
to be his own heir), it might yield to the Chancellor of the Exchequer about £900,000,000.
It would be necessary to offer a discount for payment in cash; and in order to avoid simultaneous
forced sales, to accept, in lieu of cash, securities at a valuation; and to take mortgages on land.

Here it will be seen that the Emergency Workers had improved on the Round Table, and agreed
with Mr Gardiner, by providing that the Government should take securities at a valuation and
mortgages on land in lieu of cash in order to avoid simultaneous forced sales. But they do
not seem to have perceived that, in so far as the Government took securities or accepted mortgages
on land, it would not be getting money to pay for the war, which was the object of the proposed
Conscription of Wealth, but would only be obtaining property from which the Government would
in due course later on receive an income, probably averaging about one-twentieth of its value.

Perhaps, however, it would be more correct to say that those who put the scheme forward did
not ignore this drawback to it, but rather liked it, for reasons quite irrelevant to the objects
that they were apparently pursuing. A good deal of prominence was given about the same time
to the question of a levy on capital in the New Statesman well known to be the organ of Mr
Sidney Webb and other members of the Fabian Society. These distinguished and very intellectual
Socialists would, of course, be quite pleased if, in an apparent endeavour to pay for the war,
they actually succeeded in securing, by the Government's acquisition of blocks of securities
from property owners, that official control of industry and production which is the object
of State Socialists.

It will be noted, however, in this scheme that no mention is made of any forms of property
to be accepted by the Government in lieu of cash except securities and mortgages on land. Items
such as furniture, books, pictures and jewellery are ignored, and in one of the articles in
the New Statesman, discussing the question of a capital levy, it was distinctly suggested that
these commodities should be left out of the scheme so as to save the trouble involved by valuation.
Unfortunately, if we leave out these forms of property the natural result is to stimulate the
tendency, lately shown by an unfortunately large number of patriotic taxpayers, of putting
money into pearl necklaces and other such gewgaws in order to avoid income tax. If by buying
fur coats, old masters and diamond tiaras it will be be possible in future to avoid paying,
not only income tax, but also a capital levy, it is to be feared that appeals to people to
save their money and invest it in War Bonds are likely to be seriously interfered with.

Unfortunately, the Statesman was able to announce that the appeal for this system of taxation
had been received with a good deal of sympathy by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the
next stage in the history of the agitation was the publication on Boxing Day in several of
the daily papers of what appeared to be an official summary, issued through the Central News,
of what the Chancellor had said to the deputation of Labour Leaders introduced by Mr Sidney
Webb, which waited on him, as already described, in the middle of November. Having pointed
out that he had never seen any proposal which seemed to him to be practicable for getting money
during the war by conscripting wealth, Mr Bonar Law added that, though "perhaps he had not
thought enough about it to justify him in saying so," his own feeling was that it would be
better, both for the wealthy classes and the country, to have this levy on capital, and reduce
the burden of the national debt when the war was over. It need not be said that this statement
by the Chancellor has been very far from helpful to the efforts of those who are trying to
induce unthrifty citizens to save their money and put it into National War Bonds for the finance
of the war.

"Why," people argue, "should we go out of our way to save and take these securities if, when
the war is over, a large slice of our savings is to be taken away from us by means of this
levy on capital? If we had been doubting between the enjoyment of such comforts and luxuries
as are possible in war-time and the austere duty of thrift, we shall naturally now choose the
pleasanter path, spend our money on ourselves and on those who depend on us, instead of saving
it up to be taken away again when the war is over, while those who have spent their money as
they liked will be let off scot free." Certainly, it is much to be regretted that the Chancellor
of the Exchequer should have let such a statement go forth, especially as he himself admits
that perhaps he has not thought enough about it to justify him in saying so. If the Chancellor
of the Exchequer has not time to think about what he is going to say to a Labour deputation
which approaches him on an extremely important revolution in our fiscal system, it is surely
high time that we should get one who has sufficient leisure to enable him to give his mind
to problems of this sort when they are put before him.

In the course of this review of the forms in which suggestions for a levy on capital have been
put forward, some of the difficulties and injustices inherent in it have already been pointed
out. Its advocates seem as a rule to base the demand for it upon an assumption which involves
a complete fallacy. This is that, since the conscription of life has been applied during the
war, it is necessary that conscription of wealth should also be brought to bear in order to
make the war sacrifice of all classes equal. For instance, the Emergency Workers' pamphlet,
quoted above, states that, "in view of the fact that the Government has not shrunk from Compulsory
Conscription of Men," the Committee demands that "for all the future money required to carry
on the war, the Government ought, in common fairness, to accompany the Conscription of Men
by the Conscription of Wealth."

This contention seems to imply that the conscription of men and the conscription of wealth
apply to two different classes; in other words, that the owners of wealth have been able to
avoid the conscription of men. This, of course, is absolutely untrue. The wealthiest and the
poorest have to serve the country in the front line alike, if they are fit. The proportion
of those who are fit is probably higher among the wealthy classes, and, consequently, the conscription
of men applies to them more severely. Again, the officers are largely drawn from the comparatively
wealthy classes, and it is pretty certain that the proportion of casualties among officers
has been higher during the war than among the rank and file. Thus, as far as the conscription
of men is concerned, the sacrifice imposed upon all classes in the community is alike, or,
if anything, presses rather more heavily upon those who own wealth. Conscription of wealth
as well as conscription of life thus involves a double sacrifice to the owners of property.

This double sacrifice, in fact, the owners of property have, as is quite right, borne throughout
the war by the much more rapid increase in direct taxation than in indirect. It is right that
the owners of property should bear the heavier monetary burden of the war because they, having
more to lose and therefore more to gain by a successful end of the war, should certainly pay
a larger proportion of its cost. It was also inevitable that they should do so because, when
money is wanted for the war or any other purpose, it can only be taken in large amounts from
those who have a surplus over what is needed to provide them with the necessaries and decencies
of life. But the argument which puts forward a capital levy on the ground that the rich have
been escaping war sacrifice is fallacious in itself, and is a wicked misrepresentation likely
to embitter still further the bad feeling between classes.

Nevertheless, Mr Bonar Law thinks that, since the cost of the war must inevitably fall chiefly
upon the owners of property, and since it therefore becomes a question of expediency with them
whether they should pay at once in the form of a capital levy or over a long series of years
in increased taxation, he is inclined to think that the former method is one which would be
most convenient to them and best for the country. This contention cannot be set aside lightly,
and there can be no doubt that if, by making a dead lift, the wealthy classes of the country
could throw off their shoulders a large part of the burden of the war debt, such a scheme is
well worth considering as long as it does not carry with it serious drawbacks.

It seems to me, however, that the drawbacks are very considerable. In the first place, I have
not seen any really practicable scheme of redeeming debt by means of a levy on capital In so
far as the levy is paid in the form of surrendered War Loans, it is simple enough. In so far
as it is paid in other securities or mortgages on land or other forms of property, it is difficult
to see how the assets acquired by the State through the levy could be distributed among the
debt holders whom it is proposed to pay off. Would they be forced to take securities, mortgages
on land, furniture, etc., as the Government chose to distribute them, or would the Government
have to nurse an enormous holding of various forms of property and gradually realise them and
so pay off debt?

Again, a great injustice would surely be involved by laying the whole burden of this oppressive
levy upon owners of accumulated property, so penalising those who save capital for the community
and letting off those who squander their incomes. A characteristic argument on this point was
provided by the New Statesman in a recent issue. It argued that, because ordinary income tax
would still be exacted, the contrast between the successful barrister with an Income of £20,000
a year and no savings, who would consequently escape the capital levy, and the poor clergyman
who had saved £1000 and would consequently be liable to it, fell to the ground. In other words,
because both lawyer and parson paid income tax, it was fair that the former should escape the
capital levy while the latter should have to pay it!

But needs must when the devil drives, and in a crisis of this kind it is not always possible
to look too closely into questions of equity in raising money. It is necessary, however, to
look very closely into the probable economic effects of any suggested form of taxation, and,
if we find that it is likely to diminish the future wealth production of the nation, to reject
it, however attractive it may seem to be at first sight. A levy on capital which would certainly
check the incentive to save, by the fear that, if such a thing were once successfully put through,
it might very likely be repeated, would dry up the springs of that supply of capital which
is absolutely essential to the increase of the nation's productive power. Moreover, business
men who suddenly found themselves shorn of 10 to 20 per cent. of their available capital would
find their ability to enter into fresh enterprise seriously diminished just at the very time
when it is essential that all the organisers of production and commerce in this country should
be most actively engaged in every possible form of enterprise, in order to make good the ravages
of war.

Banking problems have lately loomed large in the financial landscape. It will be remembered
that about a year and a half ago a Committee was appointed to consider the creation of a new
institution specially adapted for financing overseas trade and for the encouragement of industrial
and other ventures through their years of infancy, and that the charter which was finally granted
to the British Trade Corporation, as this institution was ultimately called, roused a great
deal of opposition both on the part of banks and of traders who thought that a Government institution
with a monopoly character was going to cut into their business with the help of a Government
subsidy. In fact, there was no subsidy at all in question, and the fears of the trading world
of competition on the part of the new chartered institution only arose owing to its unfortunate
name, which was given to it in order to allay the apprehensions of the banks which had been
provoked by the title originally designed for it, namely, the British Trade Bank. There seems
no reason why this Company should not do good work for British trade without treading on the
toes of anybody. Although naturally its activities cannot be developed on any substantial scale
until the war is over, its Chairman assured the shareholders at the end of January that its
preliminary spadework was being carefully attended to.

After this small storm in a teacup had died down those interested in our banking efficiency
were again excited by the rapid progress made by the process of amalgamation among our great
banks, which began to show acute activity again in the last months of 1917. The suddenly announced
amalgamation of the London and South-Western and London and Provincial Banks led to a whole
host of rumours as to other amalgamations which were to follow; and though most of these proved
to be untrue a fresh sensation was aroused when the union was announced of the National Provincial
Bank of England and the Union of London and Smith's Bank. All the old arguments were heard
again on the subject of the objections, from the point of view of industry in the provinces,
to the formation of great banking institutions, with enormous figures on both sides of the
balance-sheet, working from London, often, it was alleged, with no consideration for the needs
of the provincial users of credit. These latest amalgamations, which have united banks which
already had head offices in London, gave less cause than usual for these provincial apprehensions,
which had far more solid reason behind them when purely provincial banks were amalgamated with
institutions whose head office was in London. Nevertheless, the argument was heard that the
great size and scale on which these amalgamated banks were bound to work would necessarily
make them more monopolistic and bureaucratic in their outlook, and less elastic and adaptable
in their dealings with their local customers.

It seems to me that there is so far very little solid ground for any apprehension on the part
of the business community that the recent development of banking evolution will tend to any
damage to their interests. The banks have grown in size with the growth of industry. As industry
has tended more and more to be worked by big battalions, it became necessary to have banking
institutions with sufficiently large resources at their command to meet the great requirements
of the huge industrial organisations that they had to serve. Nevertheless, the tendency towards
fewer banks and bigger figures has grown with extraordinary celerity, as the following table
shows:--

MOVEMENT OF ENGLISH JOINT-STOCK BANK DEPOSITS, ETC., SINCE 1886.

December  No. of  Number of   Capital      Deposit and     Total
31st      Banks   Branches    Paid up      Current        Liabilities
                                           Accounts
1886       109     1,547    £38,468,000   £299,195,000   £376,808,000
1891       106     2,245     43,406,000    391,842,000    486,632,000
1896        94     3,051     45,203,000    495,233,000    599,518,000
1901        74     3,935     46,631,000    584,841,000    698,150,000
1906        55     4,840     48,122,000    647,889,000    782,353,000
1911        44     5,417     47,265,000    748,641,000    885,069,000
1916        35     5,993     48,237,000  1,154,877,000  1,316,220,000

This table is taken from the annual banking numbers of the Economist. It will be noticed that
in 1886 there were in England 109 joint-stock banks with 1547 offices, whose accounts were
tabulated in the Economist's annual review. Their total paid-up capital was 38-1/2 millions,
their deposit and current accounts were just under 300 millions, and their total liabilities
were 377 millions. In the course of thirty years the 109 banks had shrunk by the process of
amalgamation and absorption to thirty-five, that is to say, they had been divided by three;
the number of their offices, however, had been multiplied by nearly four, while their deposit
accounts had grown from 300 millions to 1155, and their total liabilities from 377 to 1316
millions. By the amalgamations announced at the end of 1917, and that of the County of Westminster
with Parr's announced on February 1st, the number of joint stock banks will be reduced to 32.
The picture would be still more striking if the figures of the private banks were included,
since their number has been reduced, since 1891, from 37 to 6. These figures are eloquent of
the manner in which the number of individual banks has been reduced, while the extent of the
banking accommodation given to the community has enormously grown, so that the power wielded
by each individual bank has increased by the force of both these processes.

The consequent reduction in competition which is causing some concern among the trading community
has not, as it seems to me, gone far enough yet to be a serious danger. The idea that the big
banks with offices in London give scant consideration to the needs of their local customers
seems to be so contrary to the interests of the banks that they would be extraordinarily bad
men of business if those who were responsible for their management allowed it to be the fact.
It is probably nearer the truth that banking competition in the provinces is still so keen
that the London management is very careful not to allow anything like bureaucratic stiffness
to get into the methods by which their business is managed. By the appointment of local committees
they are careful to do all they can to see that the local interests get all the credit that
is good for them. That local interests get as much credit as they want is probably very seldom
the case, because it is a natural instinct on the part of an eager business man to want rather
more credit than he ought to have, from a banking point of view. Business interests, as long
as they exist in private hands, will always want rather more credit than there is available,
and it will always be the duty of the banker to ensure that the country's industry is kept
on a sound basis by checking the tendency of the eager business man to undertake rather more
than is good for him. From the sentimental point of view it is certainly a pity to have seen
many of the picturesque old private banks extinguished, the partners in which were in close
personal touch with their customers, and entered into the lives of the local communities in
a manner which their modern counterpart is perhaps unable to do. Nevertheless, it is difficult
to get away from the fact that if these institutions had been as efficient and as well managed
as their admirers depict them to have been they would hardly have been driven out of existence
by the stress of modern developments and competition. Whatever we may think of modern competition,
in certain of its aspects, we may at least be sure of this--that it does not destroy an institution
which is really wanted by the business community. And if the complaint of local interests is
true, that they are swamped by the cosmopolitan aspirations of the great London offices, they
always have it in their power to create an institution of the kind that they want, and by giving
it their business to ensure for it a prosperous career. As long as no such tendency is visible
in the banking world we may be pretty sure that the views expressed concerning the neglect
of local interests by the enormous banks which have grown up with London centres in the last
thirty years is to a great extent a myth. It has now announced, however, that the whole problem
involved by the amalgamation process is to be sifted by a committee to be appointed for this
purpose.

Another apprehension has arisen in the minds of those who view with critical vigilance the
present tendencies of business and the present development of economic opinion among a great
section of the community. If, it is urged, the banks continue to swallow one another up by
the process of amalgamation, how will this tendency end except in the creation of one huge
bank working a gigantic money monopoly which the Socialistic tendencies of the present day
will, with some reason, insist ought to be taken over by the State for the profit of the taxpayer?
This view is frankly put forward by those advocates of a Socialistic organisation of society,
who say that the modern tendency of industry towards combinations, rings and trusts is rapidly
bringing the Socialistic millennium within their reach without any effort on the part of Socialistic
preachers. They consider that the trust movement is doing the work of Socialism, much faster
than Socialism could do it for itself; that, in short, as has been argued above in regard to
banking, the tendency towards centralisation and the elimination of competition can only end
in the assumption by the State of the functions of industry and finance. If this should be
so, the future is dark for those of us who believe that individual effort is the soul of industrial
and financial progress, and that industry carried on by Government Departments, however efficient
and economical it might be, would be such a deadly dull and unenterprising business that all
the adaptability and tendency to variation in accordance with the needs of the moment, which
are so strongly shown by individual enterprise, would be lost, to the great detriment of the
material progress of mankind.

As things are at present, there is little need to fear that Socialistic organisation of industry
could stand up against competent individual effort. Anybody who has ever had any business dealings
with a Government Department will inevitably shudder when he tries to imagine how many forms
would have to be filled up, how many divisions of the Department the inevitable mass of papers
would have to go through, and how much delay and tedium would be involved before the simplest
business proposition could be carried out. But, of course, it is argued by Socialists that
Government Departments are only slow and tied up with red tape because they have so long been
encouraged to do as little as possible, and that as soon as they are really urged to do things
instead of pursuing a policy of masterly inactivity, there is no reason why they should not
develop a promptitude and elasticity quite as great as that hitherto shown by the business
community. That such a development as this might take place in the course of generations nobody
can deny; at present it must be admitted that with the great majority of men the money-making
incentive is required to get the best out of them. If the process of education produces so
great a change in the human spirit that men will work as well for the small salary of the Civil
Service, with a K.C.B. thrown in, as they will now in order to gain the prizes of industry
and finance, then perhaps, from the purely economic point of view, the Socialisation of banking
may be justified. But we are a long way yet from any such achievement, and if it is the case
that the rapid centralisation of banking power in comparatively few hands carries with it the
danger of an attempt to nationalise a business which requires, above all, extreme adaptability
and sensitiveness to the needs of the moment as they arise, this is certainly a danger which
has to be carefully considered by those who are responsible for the development of these amalgamation
processes.

And now another great stone has been thrown into the middle of the banking pond, causing an
ever-widening circle of ripples and provoking the beginning of a discussion which is likely
to be with us for some time to come. Sir Edward Holden, at the meeting of the London City and
Midland Bank shareholders on January 29th, made an urgent demand for the immediate repeal of
the Bank Act of 1844. This Act was passed, as all men know, in order to restrict the creation
of credit in the United Kingdom. In the early part of the last century the most important part
of a bank's business consisted of the issue of notes, and banking had been carried on in a
manner which the country considered unsatisfactory because banks had not paid sufficient attention
to the proportion of cash that they ought to hold in their tills to meet notes if they were
presented. Parliament in its wisdom consequently ordained that the amount of notes which the
banks should be allowed to issue, except against actual metal in their vaults, should be fixed
at the amount of their issue at that time. Above the limit so laid down any notes issued by
the banks were to be backed by metal. In the case of the Bank of England the limit then established
was £14,000,000, and it was enacted that if any note-issuing bank gave up its right to a note
issue the Bank of England should be empowered to increase its power to issue notes against
securities to the extent of two-thirds of the power enjoyed by the bank which was giving up
its privilege. By this process the Bank of England's right to issue notes against securities,
what is usually called its fiduciary issue, has risen to £18,450,000; above that limit every
note issued by it has to be backed by bullion, and is actually backed by gold, though under
the Act one-fifth might be in silver. It was thus anticipated by the framers of the Act that
in future any credit required by industry could only be granted by an increase in the gold
held by the issuing banks. If the Act had fulfilled the anticipations of the Parliament which
passed it, if English trade had grown to anything like the extent which it has done since,
it could only have done so by the amassing of a mountain of gold, which would have lain in
the vaults of the Bank of England.

Fortunately, however, the banking community had at its disposal a weapon of which it was already
making considerable use, namely, the system of issuing credit by means of banking deposits
operated on by cheques. Eight years before Peel's Act was passed two Joint Stock Banks had
been founded in London, although the Bank of England note-issuing monopoly still made it impossible
for any Joint Stock Bank to issue notes in the London district. It is thus evident that deposit
banking was already well founded as a profitable business when Peel, and Parliament behind
him, thought that they could sufficiently regulate the country's banking system so long as
they controlled the issue of notes by the Bank of England and other note-issuing banks. It
is perhaps fortunate that Parliament made this mistake, and so enabled our banking machinery
to develop by means of deposit banking, and so to ignore the hard-and-fast regulations laid
upon it by Peel's Act. This, at least, is what has happened; only in times of acute crisis
have the strict regulations of Peel's Act caused any inconvenience, and when that inconvenience
arose the Act has been suspended by the granting of a letter of indemnity from the Treasury
to the Governor of the Bank.

Under Peel's Act the present rather anomalous form of the Bank of England's Weekly Return was
also laid down. It shows, as all men know, two separate statements; one of the Issue Department
and the other of the Banking Department. The Issue Department's statement shows the notes issued
as a liability, and on the assets side Government debt and other securities (which are, in
fact, also Government securities), amounting to £18,450,000 as allowed by the Act, and a balance
of gold. The Banking Department's statement shows capital, "Rest" or reserve fund, and deposits,
public and other, among the liabilities, and on the other side of the account Government and
other securities, all the notes issued by the Issue Department which are not in circulation,
and a small amount of gold and silver which the Banking Department holds as till money.

Sir Edward Holden's proposal is that the Act should be repealed practically in accordance with
the system which has been adopted by the German Reichsbank. The principles which he enumerates,
as those on which other national banks of issue work, are as follows:--

1. One bank of issue, and not divided into departments.

2. Notes are created and issued on the security of bills of exchange and on the cash balance,
so that a relation is established between the notes issued and the discounts.

3. The notes issued are controlled by a fixed ratio of gold to notes or of the cash balance
to notes.

4. This fixed ratio may be lowered on payment of a tax.

5. The notes should not exceed three times the gold or cash balance.

By this revolution Sir Edward would abolish all legal restriction on the issue of notes by
the Bank of England. It would hold a certain amount of gold or a certain amount of cash balance
against its notes, but in the "cash balance" Sir Edward apparently would include 11 millions
odd of Government debt, or of Treasury notes. As long as its notes were only three times the
amount of the gold or of the "cash balance," and were backed as to the other two-thirds by
bills of exchange, the situation would be regarded as normal, but if, owing to abnormal circumstances,
the Bank desired to increase the amount of notes issued against bills of exchange only and
to reduce the ratio of its gold or its cash balance to its notes, it would, at any time, be
enabled to do so by the payment of a tax, without going through the humiliating necessity for
an appeal to the Treasury to allow it to exceed the legal limit.

At the same time, by the abolition of Peel's Act the cumbrous methods of stating the Bank's
position, as published week by week in the Bank Return, would be abolished. The two accounts
would be put together, with the result that the Bank's position would be apparently stronger
than it appears to be under the present system, which makes the Banking Department's Return
weak at the expense of the great strength that it gives to the appearance of the Issue Department.
This will be shown from the following statement given by Sir Edward Holden of the Return as
issued on January 16th, and as amended according to his ideas:--

BANK STATEMENT, JANUARY 16, 1918.

ISSUE DEPARTMENT

Notes Issued .. £76,076,000  Gold .................. £57,626,000
                             Government Debt .......  11,015,000
                             Other Securities ......   7,435,000
                -----------                          -----------
                £76,076,000                          £76,076,000
Ratio of Gold to Notes Issued = 75.7 per cent.

BANKING DEPARTMENT.

Capital ....... £14,553,000  Government Securities ...... £56,768,000
Rest ..........   3,363,000  Other Securities ...........  92,278,000
Deposits--                   Notes .......... £30,750,000
Public   £41,416,000         Gold and Silver    1,143,000
Other    121,589,000
         ----------- 163,005,000            -------------  31,893,000
Other Liabilities ...     18,000
                     -----------                          -----------
                    £180,939,000                         £180,939,000

Ratio of Cash Balance to Liabilities = 19.6 per cent.

RECONSTRUCTED BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK, JANUARY 16, 1918.

Capital                   £14,553,000 Rest                        3,363,000 Notes Issued (circulation)
45,325,000 Deposits                  163,005,000 Other Liabilities              18,000

                         £226,264,000

Gold                 £58,768,000
Currency Notes        11,015,000
                        £69,783,000

Government Securities 56,768,000
Other Securities       7,435,000
                           64,203,000

Other Securities                    92,278,000

                                  £226,264,000

Ratio of Gold to Notes             =129.7 per cent. "    " Cash Balance to Liabilities = 33.5     "

It need not be said that these proposals have aroused the liveliest interest. At the Bank Meetings
held since then several chairmen have been asked by their shareholders to express their views
on Sir Edward's proposed revolution. Sir Felix Schuster pronounced cautiously in favour of
the revision of the Bank Act, and said that he had advocated it seventeen years ago. Lord Inchcape,
at the National Provincial Meeting, thought that the matter required careful consideration.
Most of us will agree with this view. There is certainly much to be said for a reform of the
Weekly Statement of the Bank of England, giving, it may be added, a good deal more detail than
Sir Edward's revised balance-sheet affords. But concerning his proposal to reconstruct our
system of note issue on a foreign model, there is certain to be much difference of opinion.
In the first place, owing to the development of our system of banking by deposit and cheque
rather than by issue and circulation of notes, the note issue is not nearly so important a
business in normal times in this country as it is in Germany and France. Moreover, the check
imposed upon our banking community by the need for an appeal to the Treasury before it can
extend its note issue beyond a certain point often acts with, a salutary effect, and the view
has even been expressed that if that check were taken away from our system it might be difficult,
if not impossible, to maintain the gold standard which has been of such enormous value in building
up the prestige of London as a financial centre. I do not think there is much weight in this
argument, since, under Sir Edward's plan, the note issue could only be increased against discounts,
and the Bank, by the charge that it made for discounts, would still be able to control the
situation. From the practical point of view of the present moment, a strong objection to the
scheme is that it would open the door to fresh inflation by unrestricted credit-making just
when the dangers of this process are beginning to dawn even on the minds of our rulers.

Every week--almost every day--brings with it the announcement of some new committee considering
some question that may, or may not, arise now or when the war is over. Especially in the realm
of finance has the Government's output of committees been notably prolific of late. We have
had a Committee on Currency, a Committee on Banking Amalgamations, and a Committee appointed,
humorously enough, by the Ministry of Reconstruction to consider what measures, if any, should
be taken to protect the public interest in connection with the policy of industrial combinations--a
policy which the Board of Trade has been sedulously fostering. Now comes a Committee to inquire
"what amendments are expedient in the Companies Acts, 1908-1917, principally having regard
to the circumstances arising out of the war, and to the developments likely to arise on its
conclusion, and to report to the Board of Trade and to the Ministry of Reconstruction." It
is composed of the Right Hon. Lord Wrenbury (chairman), Mr A.S. Comyns Carr, Sir F. Crisp,
Mr G.W. Currie, M.P., Mr F. Gaspard Farrer, Mr Frank Gore-Browne, K.C., Mr James Martin, the
Hon. Algernon H. Mills, Mr R.D. Muir, Mr C.T. Needham, M.P., Mr H.A. Payne, Sir Owen Philipps,
M.P., Sir William Plender, Mr O.C. Quekett, and Mr A.W. Tait. The secretary is Mr W.W. Coombs,
55, Whitehall, S.W. 1. There are some good names on the Committee. Mr. Gaspard Farrer represents
a great issuing house; Sir Frank Crisp, company lawyers; Sir William Plender, the accountants;
Mr O.C. Quekett, the Stock Exchange; and Sir Owen Philipps, the shipping interest. Nevertheless,
one cannot help shuddering when one considers the dangers that threaten British finance and
industry from ill-considered measures which might possibly be recommended by a Committee influenced
by the atmosphere of the present outlook on financial and commercial affairs.

One of the interesting features of the present war atmosphere is the fact that, now when we
are fighting as hard as we can to defeat all that is meant by Prussianism a great many of our
rulers and public men are doing their best to impose Prussianising methods upon this unfortunate
country, merely because it is generally assumed that Prussian methods have been shown, during
the course of the war, to carry with them a certain amount of efficiency. It is certainly true
that Prussian methods do very well as applied to the Prussians and submitted to by other races
of Germans. On the other hand, it is at least open to argument that the British method of freedom,
individual initiative, elasticity and adaptability have produced results, during the present
war, which have so far been paralleled by no other country engaged in the contest. Working
on interior lines with the assistance of docile and entirely submissive allies, Germany has
certainly done wonderful things in the war, but it by no means follows that the verdict of
posterity will not give the palm of achievement to England, who has not only carried out everything
that she promised to do before the war, but has incidentally and in the course of it created
and equipped an Army on a Continental scale, and otherwise done very much more for the assistance
of her Allies than was contemplated before the war began.

It is untrue to say that we were unprepared for the war. We were more than prepared to do all
that we promised to do. What we were unprepared for was finding ourselves required to turn
ourselves into, not only the greatest naval Power in the world, but one of the greatest military
Powers also. This demand was sprang upon us, and we have met it with extraordinary success.
The whole idea that Germany's achievement has been such as to warrant any attempt on our part
to model our institutions on her pattern seems to me to fall to pieces as soon as one looks
calmly at the actual results produced by the different systems. Moreover, even if we were to
admit that Germany's achievement in the war has been immeasurably greater than ours, it still
would not follow that we could improve matters here by following the German system. It ought
not to be necessary to observe that a system which is good for one nation or individual is
not necessarily good for another. In the simple matter of diet, for instance, a most scientifically
planned diet given to a child who does not happen to like it will not do that child any good.
These things ought to be obvious, but unfortunately in these times, which call for eminently
practical thought and effort, there is a curious doctrinaire spirit abroad, and the theorist
is continually encouraged to imagine how much better things would be if everything were quite
different, whereas what we want is the application of practical common sense to practical facts
as they are.

In the realm of finance the freedom and individual initiative and elasticity of our English
system have long been the envy of the world. Our banking system, as was shown, on an earlier
page, has always worked with much less restriction on the part of legislative and official
interference than any other, and, with the help of this freedom from official control, English
bankers and finance houses had made London the financial centre of the world before the war.
The attempt of Parliament to control banking by Peel's Act of 1844 was quietly set aside by
the banking machinery through the development of the use of cheques, which made the regulations
imposed on the note issue a matter of quite minor importance, except in times of severe crisis,
when these regulations could always be set aside by an appeal to the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
There was no Government interference in the matter of new issues of securities on the London
Stock Exchange or of the quotations granted to new securities by the Committee of the Stock
Exchange. Now the Companies Acts are to be revised in view of what may be necessary after the
war, and there is only too much reason to fear that mistakes may occur through the imposition
of drastic restrictions, which look so easy to work on paper, but are more than likely to have
the actual effect of doing much more harm than good.

"Circumstances arising out of the war and developments likely to arise on its conclusion" give
this Committee a roving commission to consider all kinds of things, which may or may not happen,
in the light of wisdom which may be put before it by interested witnesses, and, worse still,
in the light of semi-official pressure to produce a report which will go down well with the
House of Commons. Our politicians are at present in a state of extreme servility before the
enterprising gentlemen who are now at the head of what is called the Labour Party. Every one
will sympathise with the aspirations of this party in so far as they aim at bettering the lot
of those who do the hard and uninteresting work of the world, and giving them a larger share
of the productions that they help to turn out; but that is not the same thing as giving obsequious
attention to the views which their representatives may have concerning the management of financial
affairs, on the subject of which their knowledge is necessarily limited and their outlook is
likely to be, to a certain extent, prejudiced. A recent manifesto put forward by the leaders
of the new Labour Party includes in its programme the acquisition by the nation of the means
of production--in other words, the expropriation of private capitalists. The Labour people
very probably think that by this simple method they will be able to save the labourer the cost
of providing capital and the interest which is paid for its use; and people who are actuated
by this fallacy, which implies that the rate paid to capital is thinly disguised robbery, inevitably
have warped views concerning the machinery of finance and the earnings of financiers. These
views, expressed in practical legislation, might have the most serious effects not only upon
England's financial supremacy but also on the industrial activity which that financial supremacy
does so much to maintain and foster.

What, after the war, will be the most important need, from the material point of view, for
the inhabitants of this country? However the war may end, and whatever may happen between now
and the end of it, there can be only one answer to this question, and that answer is greatly
increased production. The war has already diminished our capital resources to the extent of
the whole amount that we have raised by borrowing abroad, that is to say, by pledging the production
of our existing capital, and by selling to foreign countries the foreign securities in which
our capitalists had invested during the previous century. No one knows the extent to which
our capital resources have been impaired by these two processes, but it may be guessed at as
somewhere in the neighbourhood of 1500 millions; that is to say, about 10 per cent. of a liberal
estimate of the total accumulated property of the country at the beginning of the war. To this
direct diminution in our capital resources we have to add the impossibility, which has existed
during the war, of maintaining our factories and industrial equipment in first-class working
order by expenditure on account of depreciation of plant. On the other side of the balance-sheet
we can put a large amount of new machinery introduced, which may or may not be useful for industrial
purposes after the war; greatly improved methods of organisation, the effect of which may or
may not be spoilt when the war is over by uncomfortable relations between Capital and Labour;
and our loans to Allies and Dominions, some of which may have to be written off, and most of
which will return us no interest for some time to come, or will at first pay us interest if
we lend our debtors the money to pay it with. What the country will need, above all, on the
material side, is an abundant revenue, which can only be produced by vigorous and steady effort
in industry, which, again, can only be forthcoming if the machinery of credit and finance is
given the fullest possible freedom to provide every one who wants to engage in industry and
increase the output of the country with the financial facilities, without which nothing can
be done.

Is it, then, wise at such a time to impose restrictions by a drastic tightening up of the Companies
Act, upon those who wish by financial activity, to further the efforts of industries and producers?
On the contrary, it would seem to be a time to give the greatest possible freedom to the financial
machine so that there shall be the least possible delay and difficulty in providing enterprise
with the resources that it needs. We can only make good the ravages of war by activity in production
and strict economy in consumption. What we want to do is to stimulate the people of this country
to work as hard as they can, to produce as much as possible, to consume as little as possible
on unnecessary enjoyment and luxury, and, so, by procuring a big balance of production over
consumption, to have the largest possible volume of available goods for sale to the rest of
the world, in order to rebuild our position as a creditor country, which the war's demands
upon us have to some extent impaired.

It is a commonplace that if it had not been for the great mass of foreign securities, which
this country held at the beginning of the war, we could not nearly so easily have financed
the enormous amount of food and munitions which we have had to provide for our population,
for our armies, and for the population and armies of our Allies. If, instead of holding a mass
of easily marketable securities, we had had to rely, in order to pay for our purchases of foreign
goods, on the productions of our own mines and factories, and on our power to borrow abroad,
then we should have had to restrict very greatly the number of men we have put into the firing-line
so as to keep them at home for productive work, or, by the enormous amount of our borrowings,
we should have cheapened the value of British credit abroad to a much greater extent than has
been the case. Our position as a great creditor country was an enormously valuable asset, not
only during the war but also before it, both from a financial and industrial point of view.
It gave us control of the foreign exchanges by enabling us, at any time, to turn the balance
of trade in our favour by ceasing for a time to lend money abroad, and calling upon foreign
countries to pay us the interest due from them. The financial connections which it implied
were of the greatest possible assistance to us in enhancing British prestige, and so helping
our industry and commerce to push the wares that they produced and handled.

Reform of the Companies Acts has often before the war been a more or less burning question.
Whenever the public thought that it had been swindled by the company promoting machinery, it
used to write letters to the newspapers and point out that it was a scandal that the sharks
of the City should be allowed to prey upon the ignorant public, and that something ought to
be done by Parliament to insure that investments offered to the public should somehow or other
be made absolutely watertight and safe, while by some unexplained method the public would still
be somehow able to derive large benefits from fortunate speculations in enterprises which turned
out right. Every one must admit there have been some black pages in the history of British
company promoting, and that many swindles have been perpetrated by which the public has lost
its money and dishonest and third-rate promoters have retired with the spoil. The question
is, however, what is the remedy for this admitted and glaring evil? Is it to be found by making
the Companies Laws so strict that no respectable citizen would venture to become a director
owing to the fear of penal servitude if the company on whose board he sat did not happen to
pay a dividend, and that no prospectus could be issued except in the case of a concern which
had already stood so severe a test that its earning capacity was placed beyond doubt? It would
certainly be possible by legislative enactment to make any security that was offered as safe
as Consols, and less subject to fluctuation in value. But when this had been done the effect
would be very much like the effect upon rabbits of the recent fixing of their price. No more
securities would be offered.

It is certainly extremely important for the future financial and industrial development of
this country that the machinery of finance and company promotion should be made as clean as
possible. What we want to do is to make everybody see that a great increase in output is required,
that this great increase in output can only be brought about if there is a great increase in
the available amount of capital, that capital can only be brought into being by being saved,
and that it is therefore everybody's business, both for his own sake and that of the country,
to earn as much as he can and save as much as he can so that the country's capital fund can
be increased; so that industry, which will have many difficult problems to face when the war
is over, shall be as far as possible relieved from any difficulty of finding all the capital
that it needs. To produce these results it is highly necessary to increase the confidence of
the public in the machinery of the Stock Exchange, in company promotion and all financial issues.
Any one who sincerely believes that these results can be produced by tightening up the Companies
Acts is not only entitled but bound to press as hard as he can for the securing of this object.
But is this the right way to do it? There is much to be said at first sight for making more
strict the regulations under which prospectuses have to be issued under the Companies Acts,
demanding a franker statement of the profits in the past, a fuller statement concerning the
prices paid to vendors, and the prices paid by vendors to sub-vendors, and so forth. Any one
who sits down with a pre-war industrial prospectus in his hand can find many openings for the
hand of the reformer. The accounts published by public companies might also be made fuller
and more informing with advantage. But even if these obviously beneficial reforms were carried
out, there would always be danger of their evasion. They might tend to the placing of securities
by hole-and-corner methods without the issue of prospectuses at all, and to all the endless
devices for dodging the law which are so readily provided as soon as any attempt is made by
legislation to go too far ahead of public education and public feeling.

This is the real solution of this problem--publicity, the education of the public, and a higher
ideal among financiers. As long as the public likes to speculate and is greedy and ignorant
enough to be taken in by the wiles of the fraudulent promoter, attempts by legislation to check
this gentleman's enterprise will be defeated by his ingenuity and the public's eagerness to
be gulled. The ignorance of the public on the subject of its investments is abysmal, as anybody
knows who is brought into practical touch with it. Just as the cure for the production of rotten
and fraudulent patent medicines thrust down the public's throat by assiduous advertising is
the education of the public concerning the things of its stomach, so the real cure for financial
swindles is the education of the public concerning money matters, and its recognition of the
fact that it is impossible to make a fortune in the City without running risks which involve
the possible, not to say probable, loss of all the money with which the speculator starts.
When once the public has learnt to distinguish between a speculation and an investment, and
has also learnt honesty enough to be able to know whether it wants to speculate or invest,
it will have gone much further towards checking the activity of the fraudulent promoter than
any measure that can be recommended by the most respectable and industrious of committees.
At the same time, it must be recognised by those responsible for our finance, that it is their
business, and their interest, to keep the City's back premises clean; because insanitary conditions
in the back yard raise a stink which fouls the whole City.

In the meantime, if gossip is to be believed, some of the members of the Government have the
most disquieting intentions concerning the kind of regulations which they wish to impose on
the activities of the City, especially in its financial branch. It is believed that some of
the bright young gentlemen who now rule us are in favour of Government control over the investment
of money placed at home, and the prohibition of the issue of foreign securities; and it is
even whispered that a fantastic scheme for controlling the profits of all industrial companies,
by which anything earned above a certain level is to be seized for the benefit of the nation,
is now a fashionable project in influential Parliamentary circles. Every one must, of course,
admit that a certain amount of control will be necessary for some time after the war. It may
not be possible at once to throw open the London Money Market to all borrowers, leaving them
and it to decide between them who is to be first favoured with a supply of the capital for
which there will be so large a demand when the war is over. Certain industries, those especially
on which our export trade depends, will have to be first served in the matter of the provision
of capital. If it is a choice between the engineering or shipbuilding trades and a company
that wants to start an aeroplane service between London and Brighton for the idle rich, it
would not be reasonable, during the first few months after the war, that the unproductive project
should be able, by bidding a high price for capital, to forestall the demand of the more useful
producer. And with regard to the issue of foreign securities, there is this to be said, that
foreign securities placed in London have the same effect upon foreign exchange as the import
into England of goods shipped from any country; that is to say, for the time being they turn
the exchange against us. On the other hand, it is a well-known commonplace that imports of
securities have to be balanced by exports of goods or services; and as the times when our export
trade is most active are those when most foreign securities are being placed in London, it
follows that any restrictions placed upon the issue of foreign securities in London will hinder
rather than help that recovery in our export trade which is so essential to the restoration
of our position as a creditor country.

Moreover, our rulers must remember this, that in War-time, when all the letters sent abroad
are subject to the eye of the Censor, it is possible to control the export of British funds
abroad; but that in peace time (unless the censorship is to continue), it will not be possible
to check foreign investment by restricting the issuing of foreign securities in London. If
people see better rates to be earned abroad and more favourable prospects offered by the price
of securities on foreign Stock Exchanges, they will invest abroad, whether securities are issued
in London or not. As for the curious suggestion that the profits of industrial companies are
henceforward to be limited and the whole balance above a statutory rate to be taken over by
the State for the public good, this would be, in effect, the continuance on stricter lines
of the Excess Profits Duty. As a war measure the Excess Profits Duty has much to be said for
it at a time when the Government, by its inflationary policy, is putting large windfalls of
profit into the hands of most people who have to hold a stock of goods and have only to hold
them to see them rise in value. The argument that the State should take back a large proportion
of this artificially produced profit is sound enough; but, if it is really to be the case that
industry is to be asked for the future to take all the risk of enterprise and handover all
the profit above a certain level to the Government, the reply of industry to such a proposition
would inevitably be short, emphatic, unprintable, and by no means productive of revenue to
the State.

At first sight the figures of revenue and expenditure for the year ending March 31st are extremely
satisfactory, at any rate on the revenue side. The Chancellor anticipated a year ago a revenue
from taxation and State services of £638 millions, and the receipts into the Exchequer on these
accounts actually amount to £707 millions. On the expenditure side, however, the increase over
the Budget estimate was very much greater. The estimate was £2290 millions, and the actual
amount expended was £2696 millions. Instead, therefore, of a deficit of £1652 millions having
to be met by borrowing, there was an actual gap, to be filled by this method, of, roughly,
£1990 millions.

To take the revenue side of the matter first, this being by far the most cheering and satisfactory,
we find that the details of the revenue, as compared with last year's, were as follows:--

                 Year ending    Year ending
                Mar. 31, 1918.  Mar. 31, 1917.     Increase.    Decrease.
                        £              £              £              £
Customs           71,261,000     70,561,000        700,000          ---
Excise            38,772,000     56,380,000           ---    17,608,000
Estate, etc.,
  Duties          31,674,000     31,232,000        442,000          ---
Stamps             8,300,000      7,878,000        422,000          ---
Land Tax             665,000        640,000         25,000          ---
House Duty         1,960,000      1,940,000         20,000          ---
Income Tax and
  Super Tax      239,509,000    205,033,000     34,476,000          ---
Excess Profits
  Duties, etc.   220,214,000    139,920,000     80,294,000          ---
Land Value
  Duties             685,000        521,000        164,000          ---
Postal Service    35,300,000     34,100,000      1,200,000          ---
Crown Lands          690,000        650,000         40,000          ---
Sundry Loans, etc. 6,056,250      8,055,817          ---      1,999,567
Miscellaneous     52,148,315     16,516,765     35,631,550          ---
                 -----------    -----------    -----------  -----------
                 707,234,565    573,427,582    153,414,550   19,607,567
                                               |                      |
                                               +-----------+----------+
                                                       £133,806,983
                                                      Net Increase.

A more interesting comparison perhaps is to take the actual receipts during the past financial
year and compare them, not with the former year, but with the estimates of the expected yield
of the various items. In this case we get the following comparisons:--

                               Actual.     Estimated.     Difference.
                                 £              £               £
Customs                     71,261,000     70,750,000    +    511,000
Excise                      38,772,000     34,950,000    +  3,822,000
Estate Duties               31,674,000     29,000,000    +  2,674,000
Stamps                       8,300,000      8,000,000    +    300,000
Land Tax and House Duty      2,625,000      2,600,000    +     25,000
Income Tax and Super Tax   239,509,000    224,000,000    + 15,509,000
Excess Profits Tax         220,214,000    200,000,000    + 20,214,000
Land Value Duties              685,000        400,000    +    285,000
Postal Services             35,300,000     33,700,000    +  1,600,000
Crown Lands                    690,000        600,000    +     90,000
Sundry Loans, etc.           6,056,000      7,500,000    -  1,444,000
Miscellaneous               52,148,000     27,100,000    + 25,048,000

Certainly, the country is entitled to congratulate itself on this tremendous evidence of elasticity
of revenue, and to a certain extent on the effort that it has made in providing this enormous
sum of money from the proceeds of taxation and State services. But when this much has been
admitted we have to hasten to add that the figures are not nearly so big as they look, and
that there is much less "to write home about," as the schoolboy said, than there appears to
be at first sight. Those champions of the Government methods of war finance who maintain that
we have, during the past year, multiplied the pre-war revenue, of roughly, £200 millions by
more than 3-1/2, so arriving at the present revenue of over £700 millions, are not comparing
like with like. The statement is perfectly true on paper, and expressed in pounds sterling,
but then the pound sterling of to-day is an entirely different article from the pre-war pound
sterling. Owing to the system of finance pursued by our Government, and by every other Government
now engaged in the war, of providing for a large part of the country's goods by the mere manufacture
of new currency and credit, the buying power of the pound sterling has been greatly depreciated.
By multiplying the amount of legal tender currency in the shape of Treasury notes, of token
currency in the shape of silver and bronze coinage, and of banking currency through the bank
deposits which are swollen by the banks' investments in Government securities, the Government
has increased the amount of currency passing from hand to hand in the community while, at the
same time, the volume of goods to be purchased has not been increased with anything like the
same rapidity, and may, in fact, have been, actually decreased. The inevitable result has been
a great flood of new money with a greatly depreciated value. Index numbers show a rise of over
100 per cent. in the average prices of commodities during the war. It is, however, perhaps
unfair to assume that the buying power of the pound has actually been reduced by a half, but
it is certainly safe to say that it has been reduced by a third. Therefore, the revenue raised
by the Government during the past year has to be reduced by at least a third before we are
justified in comparing our war achievements with the Government's pre-war revenue. If we take
one-third off £707 millions it reduces the total raised during the past year by revenue to
about £470 millions, less than two and a half times the pre-war revenue.

From another point of view our satisfaction with the tremendous figures of the past year's
revenue has to be to some extent qualified. The great elasticity shown by the big increase
of actual achievement over the Budget estimate has been almost entirely in revenue items which
cannot be expected to continue to serve us when the war is over. The total increase in the
receipts over estimate amounts to £69 millions, and of this £20 millions was provided by the
Excess Profits Duty, a fiscal weapon which was invented during the war, and for the purpose
of the war. It has always been assumed that it would be discontinued as soon as the war was
over, and if it should not be discontinued its after-war effect is likely to be very unfortunate
at a time when our industrial effort requires all the encouragement that it can get. Another
£25 millions was provided by miscellaneous revenue, and this windfall again must be largely
due to operations connected with the war. Finally, the £15-1/2 millions by which the income
tax exceeded the estimate must again be largely due to inflation and extravagance on the part
of the Government, which, by manufacturing money, and then spending it recklessly, puts big
profits and big incomes into the hands of those who have stocks of goods to sell or who are
in a position to produce them.

If, therefore, the satisfaction with which we regard the big total of the Government's revenue
receipts has to be considerably modified in the cold light of close observation, the enormous
increase on the expenditure side gives us very little comfort and calls for the most determined
and continued criticism if our reckless Government is to be made to turn over a new leaf. In
the early days of the war there was much excuse for wasting money. We had to improvise a great
Army, and a great organisation for equipping it; there was no time then to look too closely
into the way the money was being spent, but this excuse is long obsolete. It is not possible
to waste money without also wasting the energy and working power of the nation; on this energy
and working power the staying power of the country depends in its struggle to avert the greatest
disaster that can be imagined for civilisation, that is, the victory of the German military
power. Seeing that for many months past we have no longer been obliged to finance Russia, and
to provide Russia with the mass of materials and the equipment that she required, the way in
which our expenditure has mounted up during the course of the year is a very serious blot on
the year's balance-sheet. We spent during the year ending March 31st, £2696 millions against
£2198 millions in the previous year, an increase of close upon £500 millions; £63 millions
of this increase were due to interest on war debt, the rest of it was due to increased cost
of the war, and few business men will deny that very many of these extra millions might have
been saved if our rulers and our bureaucratic tyrants had been imbued with any real sense of
the need for conserving the energy of the nation.

Much has been done by the Committee on National Expenditure to bring home to the Government
opportunities for economy, and methods by which it can be secured. Can we be equally confident
that much has been done by the Government to carry out the advice that has been given by this
Committee? The Treasury is frequently blamed for its inability to check the rapacity and extravagance
of the spending Departments. It is very likely that the Treasury might have done more if it
had not been led by its own desire for a short-sighted economy into economising on its own
staff, the activity and efficiency of which was so absolutely essential to the proper spending
of the nation's money. But when this has been admitted, the fact remains that the Treasury
cannot, or can only with great difficulty, be stronger on the side of economy than the Chancellor
of the Exchequer, and that the task of the Chancellor of the Exchequer of imposing economy
on a spendthrift War Cabinet is one of extreme difficulty. I hope it is not necessary to say
that I do not urge economy from any sordid desire to save the nation's money if, by its spending,
victory could be secured or brought a day nearer. I only urge it because I believe that the
conservation of our resources is absolutely necessary to maintain our staying power, and that
these resources are at present being scandalously wasted by the Government. Inter-departmental
competition is still complained of in the latest report of the National Committee on Expenditure,
and there seems to be still very little evidence that the Government Departments have yet possessed
themselves of the simple fact that it is only out of these resources that victory can be secured,
and that any waste of them is therefore a crime against the cause of liberty and progress.

It is possible that before these lines are in print the Chancellor will have brought in his
new Budget, and therefore any attempt to forecast the measures by which he will meet next year's
revenue would be even more futile than most other endeavours at prophecy. But from the figures
of last year as they are before us we see once more that the proportion of expenditure raised
by revenue still leaves very much to be desired; £707 millions out of, roughly, £2700 millions
is not nearly enough. It is true that on the expenditure side large sums have been put into
assets which may some day or other be recoverable, and it is therefore impossible to assume
with any approach to accuracy what the actual cost of the war has been for us during the past
year. We have made, for instance, very large advances to our Allies and Dominions, and it need
not be said that our advances to our own Dominions may be regarded as quite as good as if they
were still in our own pockets; but in the case of our Allies, our loans to Russia are a somewhat
questionable asset, and our loans to our other brothers-in-arms cannot be regarded as likely
to be recoverable for some time to come, owing to the severity with which the war's pressure
has been laid upon them. With regard to the other assets in which the Government has invested
our money, such as factories, machinery, ships, supplies and food, etc., it is at least possible
that considerable loss may be involved in the realisation of some of them. It is, however,
possible that the actual cost of the war to us during the year that is past may turn out some
day to have been in the neighbourhood of £2000 millions. If, on the other hand, we deduct from
the £700 millions raised by revenue the £200 millions which represent the normal pre-war cost
of Government to this country we find that the proportion of war's cost raised out of revenue
is slightly over 25 per cent. This proportion must be taken with all reserve for the reasons
given above, but in any case it is very far below the 47 per cent. of the war's cost raised
out of revenue by our ancestors in the course of the Napoleonic wars.

It seems to me that this policy of raising so large a proportion of the war's cost by borrowing
is one that commends itself to short-sighted politicians, but is by no means in the interests
of the country as a whole, or of the taxpayers who now and hereafter have to find the money
for paying for the war. In so far as the war's needs have to be met abroad, borrowing abroad
is to some extent inevitable if the borrowing nation has not the necessary resources and labour
available to turn out goods for export to exchange against those which have to be purchased
abroad, but in so far as the war's needs are financed at home, the policy of borrowing is one
that should only be used within the narrowest possible limits. By its means the Government,
instead of making the citizens pay by taxation for the war as it goes on, hires a certain number
of them to pay for it by promising them a rate of interest, and their money back some day.
The interest and the sinking fund for redemption have to be found by taxation, and so the borrowing
process merely postpones taxation from the war period to the peace period. During the war period
taxation can be raised comparatively easily owing to the patriotic stimulus and the simplification
of the industrial problem which is provided by the Government's insatiable demand for commodities.
When the days of peace return, however, there will be very grave disturbance and dislocation
in industry, and it will have once more to face the problem of providing goods, not for a Government
which will take all that it can get, but for a public, the demands of which will be uncertain,
and whose buying power will be unevenly distributed, and difficult to calculate. The process,
therefore, which postpones taxation during the war period to the peace period seems to be extraordinarily
short-sighted from the point of view of the nation's economic progress. Recovery after the
war may be astonishingly rapid if all goes well, but this can only happen if every opportunity
is given to industry to get back to peace work with the least possible friction, and a heavy
burden of after-war taxation, such as we shall inevitably have to face if our Chancellors of
the Exchequer continue to pile up the debt charge as they have done in the past, will be anything
but helpful to those whose business it will be to set the machinery of industry going under
peace conditions.

As things are, if we continue to add anything like £2000 millions a year to the National Debt,
it will not be possible to balance the after-war Budget without taxation on a heavier scale
than is now imposed, or without retaining the Excess Profit Duty, and so stifling industry
at a time when it will need all the fresh air that it can get. Apart from this expedient, which
would seem to be disastrous from the point of view of its effect upon fresh industry, the most
widely advertised alternative is the capital levy, the objections to which are patent to all
business men. It would involve an enormously costly and tedious process of valuation, its yield
would be problematical, and it might easily deal a blow at the incentive to save on which the
supply of capital after the war entirely depends. A much higher rate of income tax, especially
on large incomes, is another solution of the problem, and it also might obviously have most
unfortunate effects upon the elasticity of industry. A tax on retail purchases has much to
be said in its favour, but against it is the inequity inseparable from the impossibility of
graduating it according to the ability of the taxpayer to bear the burden; and a general tariff
on imported goods, though it would be welcomed by the many Protectionists in our midst, can
hardly be considered as a practical fiscal weapon at a time when the need for food, raw material,
and all the equipment of industry will make it necessary to import as rapidly and as cheaply
as possible in order to promote our after-war recovery.

Apart from these purely economic arguments against the high proportion of the war's costs that
we are meeting by borrowing, there is the much more important fact of its bad effect on the
minds of our soldiers, and of those members of the civilian population who draw mistaken inferences
from its effects. From the point of view of our soldiers, who have to go and fight for their
country at a time when those who are left at home are earning high wages and making big profits,
it is evidently highly unfair that the war should be financed by a method which postpones taxation.
The civilian population left at home, earning high profits and high wages, should clearly pay
as much as possible during the war by immediate taxation, so that the burden of taxation may
be relieved for our soldiers when they return to civil life. In view of the hardships and dangers
which our soldiers have to face, and the heroism with which they are facing them, this argument
should be of overwhelming strength in the eyes of every citizen who has imagination enough
to conceive what our fighting men are doing for us and how supreme is our duty to do everything
to relieve them from any other burden except those which the war compels them to face. There
is also the fact that many members of our uninstructed industrial population believe that the
richer classes are growing richer owing to the war, and battening on the proceeds of the loans.
I do not think that this is true; on the contrary, I believe that the war has brought a considerable
shifting of buying power from the well-to-do classes to the manual workers. Nevertheless, in
these times misconceptions are awkwardly active for evil. The well-to-do classes as a whole
are not really benefited by having their future incomes pledged in order to meet the future
debt charge, and if, at the same time, they are believed to be acquiring the right to wealth,
which wealth they will have themselves to provide, the fatuity of the borrowing policy becomes
more manifest. For these reasons it is sincerely to be hoped that our next fiscal year will
be marked by a much higher revenue from taxation, a considerable decrease in expenditure, and
a consequently great improvement in the proportion of war's cost met out of revenue, on what
has been done in the past year. At our present rate of taxation we are not nearly meeting,
out of permanent taxes, the sum which will be needed when the war is over for peace expenditure
on the inevitably higher scale, pensions, and interest and sinking fund on war debt.

One of the most interesting passages in a Budget speech of unusual interest was that in which
the Chancellor of the Exchequer compared the financial methods of Germany and of this country,
as shown by their systems of war finance. He began by admitting that it is difficult to make
any accurate calculation on this subject, owing to the very thick mist of obscurity which envelops
Germany's actual performance in the matter of finance since the war began. As the Chancellor
says, our figures throughout have been presented with the object of showing quite clearly what
is our financial position. Most of the people who are obliged to study the figures of Government
finance would feel inclined to reply that, if this is really so, the Chancellor and the Treasury
seem to have curiously narrow limitations in their capacity for clearness. Very few accountants,
I imagine, consider the official figures, as periodically published, as models of lucidity.
Nevertheless, we can at least claim that in this respect the figures furnished to us by the
Government during the war have been quite as lucid as those which used to be presented in time
of peace, and it is greatly to the credit of the Treasury that, in spite of the enormous figures
now involved by Government expenditure, the financial statements have been published week by
week, quarter by quarter, and year by year, with the same promptitude and punctuality that
marked their appearance in peace-time. In Germany, the Chancellor says, it has not been the
object of German financial statements to show the financial position quite clearly. It is,
therefore, difficult to make an exact statement, but he was able to provide the House with
a series of very interesting figures, taken from the statements of the German Finance Ministers
themselves.

His first point is with regard to the increase of expenditure. The alarming rate with which
our expenditure has so steadily grown appears to be paralleled also in Germany. Up to June,
1916, Germany's monthly expenditure was £100 millions. It has now risen to over £187 millions.
That means to say that their expenditure per diem is £6-1/4 millions, almost the same as ours,
although our expenditure includes items such as separation allowances and other matters of
that kind, borne by the States and municipalities in Germany, and so not appearing in the German
imperial figures.

As to the precise extent of the German war debt, there is no certainty, but the Chancellor
was able to tell the House that the last German Vote of Credit, which was estimated to carry
them on to June or July, brings the total amount of all their Votes of Credit to £6200 millions,
and that it is at least certain that that amount has been added to their War Debt, because
their taxation during the war has not covered peace expenditure plus debt charge. Up to 1916
they imposed no new taxation. In 1916 they imposed a war increment tax, something in the nature
of a capital levy, which is stated to have brought in £275 millions. They added also that year
£25 millions nominally to their permanent revenue. In 1917 they added in addition £40 millions
to their permanent revenue, "Assuming, therefore, that their estimates were realised, the total
amount of new taxation levied by them since the beginning of the war comes to £365 millions,
as against our £1044 millions. This £365 millions is not enough to pay the interest upon the
War Debt which had been accumulated up to the end of the year."

Mr Bonar Law then proceeded to give an estimate of what the German balance-sheet will be a
year hence on the same basis on which he had calculated ours. With regard to our position,
he had calculated that on the present basis of taxation we shall have a margin of four millions
at the end of the present year if peace should then break out. As will be shown later, this
estimate of his is somewhat optimistic, but at any rate our position, compared with that of
Germany, may be described as on velvet. A year hence the German War Debt will be not less than
£8000 millions. The interest on that will be at least £400 millions, a sinking fund at 1/2
per cent. will be £40 millions. Their pension engagements, which will be much higher than ours
owing to their far heavier casualties, have been estimated at amounts ranging as high as £200
millions. The Chancellor was sure that he was within the mark in saying that it will be at
least £150 millions. Their normal pre-war expenditure was £130 millions, so that they will
have to face a total expenditure at the end of the war of £720 millions. On the other side
of the account their pre-war revenue was £150 millions. They have announced their intention
of this year raising additional permanent Imperial revenue amounting to £120 millions. From
the nature of the taxes the Chancellor considers it very difficult to believe that this amount
will be realised, but, assuming that it is, it will make their total additional revenue £185
millions. That, added to the pre-war revenue, gives a total of £335 millions, showing "a deficit
at the end of this year, comparing the revenue with the expenditure, of £385 millions at least."
The Chancellor added that if that were our position he would certainly think that bankruptcy
was not far from the British Government.

Another point that the Chancellor was able to make effectively, in comparing our war revenue
with Germany's, was the fact that, with the exception of the war increment tax, scarcely any
of the additional revenue has been obtained from the wealthier classes in Germany. Taxation
has been indirect and on commodities which are paid for by the masses of the people. "The lesson
to be drawn from these facts is not difficult to see. The rulers of Germany, in spite of their
hopes of indemnity, must realise that financial stability is one of the elements of national
strength. They have not added to their financial stability." The reason for this failure the
Chancellor considers to be largely psychological. It is, in the first place, because they do
not care to add to discontent by increased taxation all over the country, but "it is still
more due to this, that in Germany the classes which have any influence on or control of the
Government are the wealthier classes, and the Government have been absolutely afraid to force
taxation upon them."

It is certainly very pleasant to be able to contemplate the financial blunders by which Germany
is so greatly increasing the difficulties that it will have to face before the war is over.
On the other hand, we have to recognise that the Chancellor, with that incorrigible optimism
of his, has committed the common but serious error of over-stating his case by leaving out
factors which are in Germany's favour, as, for instance, that Germany's debt is to a larger
extent than ours held at home. Since the war began we have raised over £1000 millions by borrowing
abroad. Our public accounts show that the item of "Other Debt," which is generally believed
to refer to debt raised abroad, now amounts to £958 millions, while one of our loans in America,
which is separately stated in the account because it was raised under a special Act, amounted
to £51-1/2 millions. It is also quite possible that fair amounts of our Treasury bills, perhaps
also of our Temporary Advances and of our other war securities, have been taken up by foreigners;
but quite apart from that the two items already referred to now amount to more than £1000 millions,
though at the end of March last their amount was only £988 millions. It is also well known
that we have during the course of the war realised abroad the cream of our foreign investments,
American Railroad Bonds, Municipal and Government holdings in Scandinavia, Argentina, and elsewhere,
to an amount concerning which no accurate estimate can be made, except by those who have access
to the Arcana of the Treasury. It may, however, be taken as roughly true that so far the extent
of our total borrowings and realisation of securities abroad has been balanced by our loans
to our Allies and Dominions, which amounted at the end of March last to £1526 millions. We
have thus entered into an enormous liability on foreign debts and sold a batch of very excellent
securities on which we used to receive interest from abroad in the shape of goods and services,
against which we now hold claims upon our Allies and Dominions, in respect to the greater part
of which it would be absurd to pretend that we can rely on receiving interest for some years
after the war, in view of the much greater economic strain imposed by the war upon our Allies.

Germany, of course, has been doing these things also. Germany has parted with her foreign securities.
She was selling them in blocks for some weeks before the war, and Germany, of course, has done
everything that she could in order to induce neutrals, during the course of the war, to buy
securities from her and to subscribe to her War Loans. Nevertheless, it cannot have been possible
for Germany to carry out these operations to anything like the extent that we have, partly
because her credit has not been nearly so good, partly because her ruthless and brutal conduct
of the war has turned the sentiment of the world against her, and partly because the measures
that we have taken to check remittances and transfers of money have not been altogether ineffective.
On this side of the problem Germany has therefore an advantage over us, that her war finance,
pitiful a$ it has been, has, not owing to any virtue of hers, but owing to force of circumstances,
raised her a problem which is to a great extent internal, and will not have altered her relation
to the finance of other countries so much as has been the case with regard to ourselves. We
also have to remember that the process of demobilisation will be far simpler, quicker, and
cheaper for Germany than for us. Even if the war ended to-morrow the German Army would not
have far to go in order to get home, and we hope that by the time the war ends the German Army
will all have been driven back into its own country and so will be on its own soil, only requiring
to be redistributed to its peace occupations. Our Army will have to be fetched home, firstly,
over Continental railways, probably battered into a condition of much inefficiency, and then
in ships, of which the supply will be very short. The process will be very slow and very costly.
Our Overseas Army will have to be sent back to distant Dominions, and the Army of our American
Allies will have to be ferried back over the Atlantic. Consequently if Germany is able to obtain
anything like the supply of raw material that she requires she will be able to get back to
peace business much more quickly than any of her Anglo-Saxon enemies, and this is an advantage
on her side which it would be unwise to ignore in considering the bad effects on her after-war
activities of the very questionable methods by which she has financed and is financing the war.

Since we are indulging in these comparisons, it may be interesting to consider how our American
Allies are showing in this matter of war finance. The Times, in its "City Notes" of April 15th,
observed, in connection with the unexpectedly small amount of the third Liberty Loan, that
the reason why the smaller figure was adopted for the issue was that it seems quite certain
now that the original estimate for the expenditure in the fiscal year ending June 30th next
was much too high. This estimate was 18,775 million dollars. The Times stated that the realised
amount is likely to be hardly more than 12,000 million dollars, of which about 4500 million
dollars will represent loans to Allies, and that the estimate for the year's largely increased
tax revenue was 3886 million dollars, which now seems likely to be exceeded by the receipts.
If this be so, out of a total expenditure of £2400 millions, of which £900 millions will be
lent to the Allies, the Americans are apparently raising nearly £800 millions out of revenue.
Therefore if we deduct from both sides of the account the pre-war expenditure of about £215
millions and deduct also the loans to Allies from the expenditure, it leaves the cost of the
war to America £1285 millions for this year and the war revenue £562 millions. If these figures
are correct it would thus appear that America is raising nearly half its actual war cost out
of revenue as the war goes on.

On the other hand, in the New York Commercial Chronicle of April 6th the total estimated disbursements
for the year are still stated at over 16,000 million dollars, that is to say, £3200 millions
roughly, so that there seems to be considerable uncertainty as to what the actual amount of
the expenditure of the United States will be during the year ending on June 30th. In any case,
there can be no question that if the very high proportion of war cost paid out of revenue shown
by the Times figures proves to be correct, it will be largely owing to accident or misfortune;
if America's war expenditure has not proceeded nearly as fast as was expected, it will be,
no doubt, owing not to economies but to shortcomings in the matter of delivery of war goods
which the Government had expected to pay for in the course of the fiscal year. It certainly
would have been expected that the Americans would in this matter of war finance be in a position
to set a very much higher standard than any of the European belligerents owing to the enormous
wealth that the country has acquired during the two and a half years in which it, in the position
of a neutral, was able to sell its produce at highly satisfactory prices to the warring Powers
without itself having to incur any of the expenses of war. On the other hand, its great distance
from the actual seat of operations will naturally make it difficult for the American Government
to impose taxation as freely as might have been done in the case of peoples which are actually
on the scene of warfare; so that it is hardly safe to count on American example to improve
the standard of war finance which has been so lamentably low in Europe in the course of the
present war. According to their original estimates the proportion of war cost borne out of
taxation seems to have been on very much the same level as ours, and this has all through the
war been very much lower than the results achieved by our ancestors at the time of the Napoleonic
and Crimean wars.

On this point the proportion of our expenditure, which has been borne out of revenue, the Chancellor
stated that up to the end of last financial year, March 31, 1918, the proportion of total expenditure
borne out of revenue was 26.3 per cent. On the estimates which he submitted to the House in
his Budget speech on April 22nd, the proportion of total expenditure met out of revenue during
the current financial year will be 28.3 per cent., and the proportion calculated over the whole
period to the end of the current year will be 26.9 per cent. These proportions, however, are
between total revenue and total expenditure during the war period. The proportion, of course,
is not so high when we try to calculate actual war revenue and war expenditure by deducting
on each side at a rate of £200 millions a year as representing normal expenditure and revenue
and leaving out advances to Allies and Dominions. On this basis the proportion of war expenditure
met out of war revenue up to March 31, 1918, was, the Chancellor stated, 21.7 per cent. For
the year 1917-18 it was 25.3 per cent., for the current year it will be 26.5 per cent., and
for the whole period up to the end of the current year 23.3 per cent. The corresponding figures
for the Napoleonic and Crimean wars are given by Sir Bernard Mallet in his book on British
Budgets as 47 per cent. and 47.4 per cent. So that it will be seen that, judged by this test,
our war finance, though very much better than Germany's, is not on so high a standard as that
set by previous wars. It is true, of course, that the rate of expenditure during the present
war has been on a scale which altogether dwarfs the outgoing in any previous struggle. The
Napoleonic War is calculated to have cost some £800 millions, having lasted some twenty-three
years. Last year we spent £2696 millions, of which near £2000 millions may be taken as war
cost, after deducting normal expenditure and loans to Allies.

Nevertheless, this argument of the enormous cost of the present war does not seem to me to
be a good reason why the war should be financed badly, but rather a reason for making every
possible effort to finance it well Are we doing so? At first sight it is a great achievement
to have increased our total revenue from £200 millions before the war to £842 millions, the
amount which we are expected to receive during the current year on the basis of the proposed
additions to taxation, without taking into account any revenue from the suggested luxury tax.
But, as I have already pointed out, the comparison of war pounds with pre-war pounds is in
itself deceptive. The pounds that we are paying to-day in taxation are by no means the pounds
that we paid before the war; their value in effective buying power has been diminished by something
like one half. So that even with the proposed additions to taxation we shall not have much
more than doubled the revenue of the country from taxation and State services as calculated
in effective buying power. When we consider how much is at stake, that the very existence,
not only of the country but of civilisation, is endangered by German aggression, it cannot
be said that in the matter of taxation the country is doing anything like what it ought to
have done or anything like what it would have done, willingly and readily, if a proper example
had been set by the leading men among us, and if the right kind of financial lead had been
given to the country by its rulers.

When we look at the details of the Budget, it will be seen that the Chancellor has made a considerable
advance upon his achievement of a year ago, when he imposed fresh taxation amounting to £26
millions, twenty of which came from excess profits duty, and could therefore not be counted
upon as permanent, in his Budget for a year which was expected to add over £1600 millions to
the country's debt, and actually added nearly £2000 millions. For the present year he anticipates
an expenditure of £2972 millions, and he is imposing fresh taxation which will realise £68
millions in the current year and £114-1/2 millions in a full year. On the basis of taxation
at which it stood last year he estimates for an increase of £67 millions, income tax and super-tax
on the old basis being expected to bring in £28 millions more, and excess profits duty £80
millions more, against which decreases were estimated at £3-1/2 millions in Excise and £37
millions in miscellaneous. He thus expects to get a total increase on the last year's figures
of £135 millions, making for the current year a total revenue of £842 millions, and leaving
a total deficit of £2130 millions to be provided by borrowing. Increases in taxation on spirits,
beer, tobacco, and sugar bring in a total of nearly £41 millions. An increase of a penny in
the stamp duty on cheques is estimated to bring in £750,000 this year and a million in a full
year, and the increases in the income tax and the super-tax will bring in £23 millions in the
present year and £61 millions in a full year. Increases in postal charges will bring in £3-1/2
millions this year and £4 millions in a full year.

There has been little serious criticism of these changes in taxation except that many people,
who seem to regard the penny post as a kind of fetish, have expressed regret that the postal
rate of the letter should be raised to 1-1/2 d. This addition seems to me to be merely an inadequate
recognition of the depreciation of the buying power of the penny and to be fully warranted
by the country's circumstances. Either it will bring in revenue or it will save the Post Office
labour, and whichever of these objects is achieved will increase the country's power to continue
the war. The extra penny stamp on cheques has been rather absurdly objected to as being likely
to increase inflation. Since the effect of it is likely to be that people will draw a smaller
number of small cheques, and will make a larger number of their purchases by means of Treasury
notes, the tax will merely result in the substitution of one form of currency for another,
and it is difficult to see how this process will in any way increase inflation. Other arguments
might be adduced, which make it undesirable to increase the outstanding amounts of Treasury
notes, but in the matter of inflation through addition to paper currency, it seems to me that
the proposed tax is entirely blameless. The increase of a shilling in income tax and super-tax
produced a feeling of relief in the City, being considerably lower than had been anticipated.
It is hardly the business of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in this most serious crisis to
produce feelings of relief among the taxpayers, and it seems to me a great pity that he did
not make much freer use of these most equitable forms of taxation, having first made arrangements
(which could easily have been done) by which their very severe pressure would have been relieved
upon those who have families to bring up. Death duties, again, he altogether omitted as a source
of extra revenue. His proposed luxury tax he has left to be evolved by the wisdom of a House
of Commons Committee, and has thereby given plenty of time to extravagantly minded people to
lay in a store of stuff before the tax is brought into being.

Space will not allow me to deal fully with the Chancellor's very interesting analysis of our
position as he expects it to be at the end of the financial year on the supposition that the
war was then over. He expects a revenue then of £540 millions on the present basis, making,
with the yield of the new taxes in a full year, £654 millions in all, without including the
excess profits duty, and he expects an after-war expenditure of £650 millions, including £50
millions for pensions and £380 millions for debt charge. It seems to me that his expectation
of after-war revenue is too high, and of after-war expenditure is too low. He says that the
estimates have been carefully made, but that they include "a recovery from the absence of war
conditions," but surely the absence of war conditions is much more likely to produce a diminution
than a recovery in taxation. Under the present circumstances, with prices continually rising,
the profits of those who grow or hold stocks of goods of any kind automatically swell The rise
in prices has only to cease, to say nothing of its being turned into a fall, to produce at
once a big check in those profits, and when we consider the enormous dislocation likely to
be produced by the beginning of the peace period expectations of an elastic revenue when the
war is over seem to be almost criminally optimistic.

The Chancellor arrived at his after-war debt charge of £380 millions by estimating for a gross
debt on March 31, 1919, of £7980 millions, which he reduces to a net debt of £6856 millions
by deducting half the expected face value of loans to Allies, £816 millions, and £308 millions
for loans to Dominions and India's obligation. But is he, in fact, entitled to count on receiving
any interest at all from our Allies for some years to come after the war? If not, then on that
portion of our debt which is represented by loans to Allies we shall have to meet interest
for ourselves. He also gave an imposing list of assets in the shape of balances in hand, foodstuffs,
land, securities, building ships, stores in munitions department, and arrears of taxation,
amounting in all to nearly £1200 millions. It is certainly very pleasant to consider that we
shall have all these valuable assets in hand; but against them we have to allow, which the
Chancellor altogether omitted to do, for the big arrears of expenditure and the huge cost of
demobilisation, which is at least likely to absorb the whole of them. On the whole, therefore,
although we can claim that our war finance is very much better than that of our enemies, it
is difficult to avoid the conclusion that it might have been very much better than it is, and
that it is not nearly as good as it is represented to be by the optimistic fancy of the Chancellor
of the Exchequer.

As if mankind had not enough on its hands at the present moment, a number of well-meaning people
seem to think that this is an opportune time for raising obscure questions of currency, and
trying to make the public take an interest in schemes for bettering man's lot by improving
the arrangements under which international payments are carried out. Nobody can deny that some
improvement is possible in this respect, but it may very well be doubted whether, at the present
moment, when very serious problems of rebuilding have inevitably to be faced and solved, it
is advisable to complicate them by introducing this difficult question which, whenever it is
raised, will require the most careful and earnest consideration.

Since, however, the question is in the air, it may be as well to consider what is wrong with
our present methods, and what sort of improvements are suggested by the reformers. At present,
as every one knows, international payments are in normal times ultimately settled by shipments
from one country to another of gold. Gold has achieved this position for reasons which have
been described in all the currency text-books. Mankind proceeded from a state of barter to
a condition in which one particular commodity was used as the chief means of payment simply
because this process was found to be much more convenient. Under a system of barter an exchange
could only be effected between two people who happened to be possessed each of them of the
thing which the other one wanted, and also at the same time to want the thing which the other
one possessed, and the extent of their mutual wants had to lit so exactly that they were able
to carry out the desired exchange. It must obviously have been rare that things happened so
fortunately that mutually advantageous exchanges were possible, and the text-books invariably
call attention to the difficulties of the baker who wanted a hat, but was unable to supply
his need because the hatter did not want bread but fish or some other commodity.

It thus happened that we find in primitive communities one particular commodity of general
use being selected for the purpose of what is now called currency. It is very likely that this
process arose quite unconsciously; the hatter who did not want bread may very likely have observed
that the baker had something, such as a hit of leather, which was more durable than bread,
and which the hatter could be quite certain that either he himself would want at some time,
or that somebody else would want, and he would therefore always be able to exchange it for
something that he wanted. All that is needed for currency in a primitive or any other kind
of people is that it should be, in the first place, durable, in the second place in universal
demand, and, in the third place, more or less portable. If it also possessed the quality of
being easily able to be sub-divided without impairing its value, and was such that the various
pieces into which it was sub-divided could be relied on not to vary in desirability, then it
came near to perfection from the point of view of currency.

All these qualities were possessed in an eminent degree by the precious metals. It is an amusing
commentary on the commonly assumed material outlook of the average man that the article which
has won its way to supremacy as currency by its universal desirability, should be the precious
metals which are practically useless except for purposes of ornamentation. For inlaying armour
and so adorning the person of a semi-barbarous chief, for making into ornaments for his wives,
and for the embellishment of the temples of his gods, the precious metals had eminent advantages,
so eminent that the practical common sense of mankind discovered that they could always be
relied upon as being acceptable on the part of anybody who had anything to sell. In the matter
of durability, their power to resist wear and tear was obviously much greater than that of
the hides and tobacco and other commodities then fulfilling the functions of currency in primitive
communities. They could also be carried about much more conveniently than the cattle which
have been believed to have fulfilled the functions of currency in certain places, and they
were capable of sub-division without any impairing of their value, that is to say, of their
acceptability. Merely as currency, precious metals thus have advantages over any other commodity
that can be thought of for this purpose.

So far, however, we have only considered the needs of man for currency; that is to say, for
a medium of exchange for the time being. It is obvious, however, that any commodity which fulfils
this function, that is to say, is normally taken in payment in the exchange of commodities
and services, also necessarily acquires a still more important duty, that is, it becomes a
standard of value, and it is on the alleged failure of gold to meet the requirements of the
standard of value that the present attack upon it is based. On this point the defenders of
the gold standard will find a good deal of difficulty in discovering anything but a negative
defence. The ideal standard of value is one which does not vary, and it cannot be contended
that gold from this point of view has shown any approach to perfection in fulfilling this function.
It could only do so if the supply of it available as currency could by some miracle be kept
in constant relation with, the supply of all other commodities and services that are being
produced by mankind. That it should be constant with each one of them is, of course, obviously
impossible, since the rate at which, for example, wheat and pig-iron are being produced necessarily
varies from time to time as compared with one another. Variations in the price of wheat and
pig-iron are thus inevitable, but it can at least be claimed by idealists in currency matters
that some form of currency might possibly be devised, the amount of which might always be in
agreement with the amount of the total output of saleable goods, in the widest sense of the
word, that is being created for man's use.

It need not be said that this desirability of a constant agreement between the volume of currency
and the volume of goods coming forward for exchange is based on what is called the quantitative
theory of money. This theory is still occasionally called in question, but is on the whole
accepted by most economists of to-day, and seems to me to be a mere arithmetical truism if
we only make the meaning of the word "currency" wide enough; that is to say, if we define it
as including all kinds of commodities, including pieces of paper and credit instruments, which
are normally accepted in payment for goods and services. This addition of credit instruments,
however, is a complication which has considerably confused the problem of gold as the best
means of ultimate payment. Taken simply by itself the quantitative theory of money merely says
that if money of all kinds is increased more rapidly than goods, then the buying power of money
will decline, and the prices of goods will go up and vice versa. This seems to be an obvious
truism if we make due allowance for what is called the velocity of circulation. If more money
is being produced, but the larger amount is not turned over as rapidly as the currency which
was in existence before, then the effect of the increase will inevitably be diminished, and
perhaps altogether nullified. But other things being equal, more money will mean higher prices,
and less money will mean lower prices.

But, as has been said, the question is very greatly complicated by the addition of credit instruments
to the volume of money, and this complication has been made still more complicated by the fact
that many economists have refused to regard as money anything except actual metal, or at least
such credit instruments as are legal tender, that is to say, have to be taken in payment for
commodities, whether the seller wishes to do so or not. For example, many people who are interested
in currency questions would regard at the present moment in this country gold, Bank of England
notes, Treasury notes, and silver and copper up to their legal limits as money, but would deny
this title to cheques. It seems to me, however, that the fact that the cheque is not and cannot
be legal tender does not in practice affect or in any way impair the effectiveness of its use
as money. As a matter of fact cheques drawn by a good customer of a good bank are received
all over the country day by day in payment for an enormous volume of goods. In so far as they
are so received, their effect upon prices is exactly the same as that of legal tender currency.
This fact is now so generally recognised that the Committee on National Expenditure has called
attention to the financing of the war by bank credits as one of the reasons for the inflation
of prices which has done so much to raise the cost of the war. It is, in fact, being generally
recognised that the power of the bankers to give their customers credits enabling them to draw
cheques amounts in fact to an increase in the currency just as much as the power of the Bank
of England to print legal tender notes, and the power of the Government to print Treasury notes.

Thus it has happened that by the evolution of the banking system the use of the precious metals
as currency has been reinforced and expanded by the printing of an enormous mass of pieces
of paper, whether in the form of notes, or in the form of cheques, which economise the use
of gold, but have hitherto always been based on the fact that they are convertible into gold
on demand, and in fact have only been accepted because of this important proviso. Gold as currency
was so convenient and perfect that its perfection has been improved upon by this ingenious
device, which prevented its actually passing from hand to hand as currency, and substituted
for it an enormous mass of pieces of paper which were promises to pay it, if ever the holders
of the paper chose to exercise their power to demand it. By this method gold has been enabled
to circulate in the form of paper substitutes to an extent which its actual amount would have
made altogether impossible if it had had to do its circulation, so to speak, in its own person.
From the application of this great economy to gold two consequences have followed; the first
is that the effectiveness of gold as a standard of value has been weakened because this power
that banks have given to it of circulating by substitute has obviously depreciated its value
by enormously multiplying the effective supply of it. Depreciation in the buying power of money,
and a consequent rise in prices, has consequently been a factor which has been almost constantly
at work for centuries with occasional reactions, during which the process went the other way.
Another consequence has been that people, seeing the ease with which pieces of paper can be
multiplied, representing a right to gold which is only in exceptional cases exercised, have
proceeded to ask whether there is really any necessity to have gold behind the paper at all,
and whether it would not be possible to evolve some ideal form of super-paper which could take
the place of gold as the basis of the ordinary paper which is created by the machinery of credit,
which would be made exchangeable into it on demand instead of into gold.

It is difficult to say how far the events of the war have contributed to the agitation for
the substitution for gold of some other form of international currency. It would seem at first
sight that the position of gold at the centre of the credit system has been shaken owing to
the fact that in Sweden and some other neutral countries the obligation to receive gold in
payment for goods has been for the time being abrogated. The critics of the gold standard are
thus enabled to say, "See what has happened to your theory of the universal acceptability of
gold. Here are countries which refuse to accept any more gold in payment for goods. They say,
'We do not want your gold any more. We want something that we can eat or make into clothes
to put on our backs.'" This is certainly an extremely curious development that is one of the
by-products of war's economic lessons. But I do not feel quite sure that it has really taught
us anything new. All that has ever been claimed for gold is that it is universally acceptable
when men are buying and selling together under more or less normal circumstances. It has always
been recognised that a shipwrecked crew on a desert island would be unlikely to exchange the
coco-nuts or fish or any other commodities likely to sustain life which they could find, for
any gold which happened to be in the possession of any of them, except with a view to their
being possibly picked up by a passing ship, and returning to conditions under which gold would
reassume its old privilege of acceptability.

During the war the shipping conditions have been such that many countries have been hard put
to it, especially if they were contiguous to nations with which the Entente is at present at
war, to get the commodities which they needed for their subsistence. The Entente, with its
command of the sea, has found it necessary to ration them so that they should have no available
surplus to hand on to the enemy. They have very naturally endeavoured to resist these measures,
and in order to do so have made use of the power that they exercise by their being in possession
of commodities which the Entente desires. They have shown a tendency to say that they would
not part with these commodities unless the Entente allowed them to have a larger proportion
of things needed for subsistence than the Entente thought necessary for them, and it was as
part of this battle for larger imports of necessaries that gold has been to some extent looked
upon askance as means of payment, the preference being given to things to eat and wear rather
than to the metal. These wholly abnormal circumstances, however, do not seem to me to be any
proof that gold will after the war be any less acceptable as a means of payment than before.
The Germans are usually credited with considerable sagacity in money matters, with rather more,
in fact, I am inclined to think, than they actually possess; they, at any rate, show a very
eager desire to collect together and hold on to the largest possible store of gold, obviously
with a view to making use of it when the war is over in payment for raw materials, and other
commodities of which they are likely to find themselves extremely short. America also has shown
a strong tendency to maintain as far as possible within its borders the enormous amount of
gold which the early years of the war poured into its hands. While such is the conduct of the
chief foreign nations, it is also interesting to note that one comes across a good many people
who, in spite of all the admonitions of the Government to all good citizens to pay their gold
into the banks, still hold on to a small store of sovereigns in the fear of some chain of circumstances
arising in which only gold would be taken in payment for commodities. On the whole, I am inclined
to think that the power of gold as a desirable commodity merely because it is believed to be
always acceptable has not been appreciably shaken by the events of the war.

This does not alter the fact that, as has been shown above, gold, complicated by the paper
which has been based upon it, cannot claim to have risen to full perfection as a standard of
value. In primitive times the question of the standard of value hardly arises. Transactions
are for the most part carried out and concluded at once, and any seller who takes a piece of
metal in payment for his goods does so with the rough knowledge of what that piece of metal
will buy for him at the moment, and that is the only point which concerns him. The standard
of value only becomes important when under settled conditions of society long-term contracts
bulk large in economic transactions. A man who makes an investment which entitles him to 5
per cent. interest, and repayment in 30 years' time, begins to be very seriously interested
in the question of what command over commodities his annual income of 5 per cent. will give
him, and whether the repayment of his money at the end of 30 years will represent the repayment
of anything like the same amount of buying power as his money now possesses. It is here, of
course, that gold has failed because, as we have seen, the process has been a fairly steady
one of depreciation in the buying power of the alleged standard and a rise in the prices of
other commodities. This means to say that the investor who has accepted repayment at the end
of 30 years of the amount that he lent, be it £100 or £10,000, has found that the money repaid
to him had by no means the same buying power as the money which he originally invested.

Within limits this tendency of the standard of value towards depreciation has possessed considerable
advantages, probably much greater advantages than would have followed from the contrary process
if it had been the other way round. If we can imagine that the currency history of the world
had been such that a constantly diminished quantity of currency in relation to the output of
other commodities had caused a steady fall in prices, it is obvious that there might have been
a very considerable check to the enthusiasm of industry. It has indeed been contended that
the scarcity of precious metals which, with the absence of an organised credit system, produced
this result during the later Roman Empire was a very important cause of the decay into which
that Empire fell. I do not feel at all convinced that this effect would necessarily have followed
the cause. It seems to me that the ingenuity of enterprising man is such that the producer
might, and probably would, have found means for facing the probability of depreciation in price.
But it is always an empty pastime to try to imagine what would have happened "if things had
been otherwise." What we do know is that a period of rising prices, especially if the rise
does not go too fast, stimulates the enterprise of producers, and sets business going actively,
and consequently it may at least be claimed that the failure of the gold standard to maintain
that steadiness of value which is an obvious attribute of the ideal standard has at least been
a failure on the right side, by tending to depreciation of the value of currency, and so to
a rise of the prices of other commodities. Obviously, people will tuck up their sleeves more
readily to the business of production and manufacture if the course of the market in the product
which they hope to sell some day is likely to be in their favour rather than against them.

And when all is admitted concerning the failure of the existing standard of value, the question
is, what substitute can we find which will carry with it all the advantages that gold has been
shown to possess, and at the same time maintain that steadiness of value which gold has certainly
lacked? We hear airy talk of an international currency based on the credit of the nations leagued
together to promote economic peace. It is certainly very obvious that the diplomatic relations
of the world require complete reform, and the system by which the nations at present settle
disputes between themselves has been found by the experience of the last four years to be so
disgusting, so barbarous and so ridiculous that all the most civilised nations of the world
are determined to go on with it until it is stopped for ever. Nevertheless, obvious as it is
that some kind of a League of Nations is essential as a form of international police if civilisation
is to be rescued from destruction, it is very doubtful whether such an organisation could,
at least during the first half-century or so of its existence, be called upon to tackle so
difficult a question as that of the creation of an international currency based on international
credit. In the first place, what will be required more than anything else after the war in
economic matters will be the elimination of all possible reasons for uncertainty; so much uncertainty
and difficulty will be inevitable that it seems to me to be almost criminal to add to those
uncertainties by an outburst of eloquence on the part of currency reformers if there were any
danger of their recommendations being accepted. It will be difficult enough to know where the
producers of the world are to get raw material, find efficient labour, and then find a market
for their products, without at the same time upsetting their minds with doubts concerning some
kind of new-fangled currency that is to be created, and in which they are to be made to accept
payment, with the possibilities of changes in the system which may have to be effected owing
to some quite unforeseen results happening from its adoption. The gold standard, with all its
failures, we do know; we also know that something may be done some day to remedy them if mankind
can produce a set of rulers capable of approaching the question with all the knowledge and
experience required; but to substitute this system at a time of great uncertainty for one which
might or might not work would seem to be tempting Providence in an entirely unnecessary manner
at a time when it is above all necessary to get the economic ship as far as possible on an
even keel.

If the proposed substitute is to succeed it will have to be at least as acceptable as gold,
and at the same time its quantity must be so regulated as to be at all times constant in relation
to the output of commodities. Can we pretend that the economic enlightenment of mankind has
yet reached a point at which such a currency could be produced and regulated by the Governments
of the world and be accepted by their citizens?

Of the many kinds of Bonus shares, the one which has lately been most prominent in the public
eye is that which is produced by the capitalisation of a reserve fund. There has lately been
a perfect epidemic of this kind of Bonus share, which is almost as plentiful as the caterpillars
in the oak trees and the green fly on the allotments. The reason for this outburst is apparently
the anxiety which the directors of many prosperous industrial companies feel lest the high
dividends which good management and sound finance in the past have enabled them to pay should
lay them open to misunderstanding and attack by well-meaning people who think that it is a
crime for a company to earn more than a certain percentage on its capital.

This explanation was very frankly given by the directors of Brunner, Mond and Company, when
they lately capitalised part of their reserves. The company, they stated, has for many years
paid a dividend on its Ordinary shares of 27-1/2 per cent., and "the directors feel that there
is a widespread impression that this is the rate of profit earned on the total of the capital
invested, and consequently that the company is making an unfair profit out of its customers
and the labour it employs. This is by no means the case." It is a lamentable proof of the backward
state of the economic education of this country that it should be necessary for well-financed
and prosperous concerns to take steps to make it quite clear to the public that they are not
earning more than they appear to be. In a well-educated community it would be perceived at
once that it is the well-financed and prosperous companies which improve production in the
interests of their shareholders, their workmen, and the public; that the price which the public
pays for a commodity is ultimately the price at which the worst financed and worst managed
companies can just manage to keep alive; that the higher profits earned by the better companies
are not wrung out of the pockets of the community, or their workmen, but are the result of
good management and good finance; and that the more the good companies are encouraged to go
ahead and drive the bad ones out of existence, the better will the community be served, and
the better will be the chance of the workmen to get good wages. These platitudes are of course,
only true in a state of free competition. If there is anything like monopoly the public and
the workers are fully justified in being suspicious and examining the source from which high
dividends are produced.

Such being the reason why this outburst of capitalisation of reserves first began--since in
these days all capitalists and those who have to manage capital feel that they are working
under criticism, which is not only jealous and suspicious (as it should be), but is also too
often both ignorant and prejudiced--it is interesting to note that the movement which was so
started has been stimulated by its very exhilarating effect on the market in the shares of
the companies concerned. Why this should be so it is difficult at first sight to say. What
happens is merely this--that a company, let us suppose, for the sake of simplicity, with a
capital consisting wholly of 3,000,000 Ordinary shares, has accumulated out of past profits,
or out of premiums on new issues of shares, a reserve fund of £1,000,000. Its net profit has
lately averaged £400,000, and it has, year by year, distributed £300,000 in the shape of a
10 per cent. dividend to its shareholders, and put £100,000 into its reserve fund, which is
represented on the other side of the balance-sheet by buildings and plant and a certain amount
of first-class investments. If the directors now decide to capitalise that £1,000,000 of reserve
fund, the only effect is that each shareholder will be given one new share for every three
which he holds in the existing capital, the reserve fund will be wiped out, and the ordinary
capital will be increased from £3,000,000 to £4,000,000. None of the shareholders will be in
actual fact better off to the extent of one halfpenny, because all will be in the same position
with regard to one another; their relative shares in the enterprise will not have been altered.
If we imagine, by way of simplifying the problem, that all the Ordinary shares were in one
hand, that one holder would have had in his Ordinary shares a claim to the total assets of
the company, that is to say, to its earning power as long as it is a going concern, and to
whatever its assets realise if it went into liquidation; the fact that £1,000,000 worth of
the assets had been bought out of past profits or premiums paid on new issues of shares would
have already added to the value of the claim that he had on the property of the company, and
no addition would be made to that value by turning the reserve fund into shares.

In other words, the reserve fund is already the property of the shareholders, and to convert
it from reserve fund into capital, making them a present of new shares, which merely represent
their claim to the assets held against the reserve fund, is as empty a gift as presenting a
man with a piece of paper informing him that he is the owner of his own hat. All this remains
equally true if, besides the ordinary capital, there is a considerable amount outstanding of
Preference shares and Debenture debt. In any case, the Ordinary shareholders possess a claim
to the earning power of the company when prior charges have been satisfied, and to whatever
surplus may remain on liquidation after first charges have been paid off in full. Whether that
interest of theirs is represented by a larger or smaller number of shares, or by shares of
a larger or smaller denomination, or by a reserve fund upon which they have a claim when all
other claims have been settled makes no difference whatever as a matter of academic fact. Apart
from the sentiment of the matter, there is no reason why ordinary capital should have any nominal
value.

As to the earning power of the company, that, of course, is not affected one whit by the process.
The earning power of the company is all in the assets--the plant, machinery and other property--plus
the elusive qualities which are bound up in the word "goodwill," representing the selling power,
organisation, and the expectation of future profits. The capitalisation of the reserve simply
affects the manner in which the liabilities of the company are arranged, and the existence
of a reserve fund merely means that the Ordinary shareholders have a claim to a larger amount
than their nominal holding in case of liquidation. It does not matter in the least whether
this larger claim is handed to them in the shape of a certificate, since the nominal amount
of their claim has nothing whatever to do with the amount that their claim realises to them
annually in the shape of dividends, or in the event of liquidation, from the realisation of
the company's assets.

In fact, the capitalisation of reserves is sometimes criticised by economic purists as a retrograde
step because it seems likely to encourage the directors to be extravagant in the matter of
dividends. In the example which we supposed above of the company with a capital of three millions
and reserve fund of one million, if the reserve fund is turned into Ordinary shares and the
earning power of the company remains the same there may obviously be a temptation to the directors
to modify the prudent policy under which they had hitherto placed one hundred thousand a year
to reserve, because if they continued it the shareholders would discover they were really no
better off and that they simply got a lower rate of dividend on the larger amount of shares,
and that their actual receipts from the company were exactly the same as before. And if the
earning power of the company remained the same and the directors left off placing the one hundred
thousand a year to reserve, and paid away the whole of the net profit in dividend, it is clear
that the progressive expansion of the company's business would be to that extent checked. On
the other hand, there is a contrary argument that as long as the company has a large reserve
fund there is a possibility that dissatisfied shareholders may agitate for a realisation of
sufficient assets to enable that reserve fund to be distributed, especially if it has been
wholly acquired out of past profits. In this case the capitalisation of the reserve fund puts
this temptation out of their reach since, when once the reserve fund has been capitalised,
it can only be got at by greedy shareholders through the process of liquidation. Since, however,
the shareholder in these times is not quite so short-sighted as he used to be, there is not
perhaps really very much advantage in this point.

But since, as has been shown, capitalisation of reserves has no effect upon the earning power
and assets of the company, it is interesting to try and discover why the rumour and announcement
of such an intention on the part of the board of directors is nearly always accompanied by
a rise in the shares of the company affected. If the shareholder is merely to be given a larger
nominal claim, which does not in the least affect the value of the assets which that claim
concerns, and if the relative amount of his claim is exactly the same with regard to the other
shareholders, it is clear that the rise in the value of the shares is based entirely either
on a psychological mistake on the part of the public and its financial advisers, or on the
fact that the transaction called attention to the value of the shares which have hitherto been
undervalued in the market. Probably the movement arises from both these causes. A large number
of people think they are better off if they have a larger nominal share, without considering
that all the other shareholders are at the same time having their claim increased, that the
assets to which they all have a claim are not being increased, and that, consequently, if a
sharing-out process were to take place they would all be exactly as they would have been if
no such capitalisation of reserves had been carried out. And if a sufficient number of people
think that a share or any other commodity is more valuable, it thereby becomes more valuable,
because value is nothing else than the amount, whether in money or other commodities, at which
a commodity can be disposed of.

But it is also true that there are, at all times, a very large number of securities, especially
in the industrial market, which would stand higher if their earning power and position were
more closely scrutinised. This is very clearly seen to be the case from the apparently extravagant
prices at which insurance companies, for example, sometimes buy the businesses of one another.
They give a price which is considerably above the market value of the concern as represented
by the price of its shares. Critics say that the terms are extravagant, and yet the deal is
found to be highly profitable to the buying company. The profit of the deal, of course, may
be increased by the advantages of amalgamation, but quite apart from that it is clear that
the market price of securities very often undervalues, as it also, perhaps, still oftener overvalues,
the real position of the companies on whose earning powers they represent claims. In any case,
there is the fact that these capitalisations of reserve funds, which make no real difference
to the actual position of the company, are universally regarded, in the language of the Stock
Exchange, as "bull points." It is assumed, of course, that the directors would not carry out
such an operation unless they saw their way to a higher earning power in the future as a justification
for the larger capital. In this expectation the directors might be right or wrong, and, even
if they are right, that prospect of higher earning power, if market prices could be relied
upon to express the true position of a company, would have been "in the price."

There is another kind of Bonus share, which is not exactly a Bonus share, but carries a bonus
with it. This comes into being when the directors of a company sell new shares to existing
shareholders at a price below the terms which they might have obtained if they made a new issue
to the general public. The classical example of this system is the Aerated Bread Company, that
concern to which City clerks and journalists and others owe so much as pioneers of cheap and
simple catering. It will be remembered that in the palmy days of this company, before it had
been severely cut into by competition, its £1 shares used to stand in the neighbourhood of
£15. The directors used then to make issues of new shares to existing shareholders at their
face value, that is to say, at £1 per share, although it was obvious that if they had made
a public issue inviting all and sundry to subscribe they could have sold their new issues at
or above £14 per share. This system put an enormous bonus in the pockets of the existing shareholders
at the expense of the company and its future prospects. The directors practically gave to the
existing shareholders a present of £130,000 if they sold them 10,000 new shares for £10,000,
which they and the public would have readily subscribed for at £140,000. There was nothing
wicked about the process, but it was extremely short-sighted. If the company had retained the
monopoly which its pioneer work as a cheap caterer for a long time secured it, it might have
kept its prosperity unimpaired even by this short-sighted finance. As it was, attracted several
competitors, some of which were extremely well managed and financed, and although it still
does a most useful work for the community, its earning power has suffered considerably. But
this is only an extreme example of a system which is reasonable enough if it is not carried
too far. The Canadian Pacific Railway, for instance, has for many years adopted a very moderate
use of this system, making new issues to its shareholders on terms rather cheaper than it could
have obtained by a public issue, but not giving away enough to impair its future seriously
in order to make presents to the existing stockholders by this means. By the continued making
of small presents to their constituents the directors of the company have obtained the support
of a very loyal body of stockholders, who feel that they are being well treated but not pampered.
This system of granting a small bonus to existing shareholders on occasions when the company
has to issue new capital is one which is quite unobjectionable as long as it is not abused.
If, owing to the use of it, the directors are encouraged to finance themselves badly, that
is to say, to pay out of new capital for improvements and extensions which a more prudent policy
would have financed out of earnings, just because they find that these issues carrying a small
bonus makes them popular with the stockholders, then the system is being abused. Otherwise
there seems no reason to object to a measure which keeps the shareholders happy and does not
do any harm to the concern so long as it is worked in moderation.

Finally, there is a Bonus share or stock which does not represent accumulation out of vast
profits or issues of new shares at a premium, and does not involve a bonus by the sale to existing
shareholders at a price below the terms which could be got in the market, but is at first sight
pure water, representing merely possibilities, perhapses, and potentialities. This kind of
Bonus share is chiefly known on the other side of the Atlantic, and is usually damned with
bell, book and candle by purists among English financial critics. We say on this side of the
water that every pound of an English well-financed company represents a pound which has actually
been spent and put into tangible assets which help the company to earn profits. This boast
is by no means true, since nearly all industrial companies come into being with something paid
for in the shape of goodwill, which is of enormous importance, but can hardly be called a tangible
asset; and even in the case of our railway companies, many millions of original capital went
into Parliamentary and legal expenses, which have been, in one sense, dead capital ever since,
though without this expenditure the railways could never have got to work. The American system
of Common shares, representing what appears to be water, is only a modification of what every
company has to do, in one form or another, on this side or anywhere in the world. Wherever
an existing business is bought out something has to be given over and above the old iron value
of the concern for the value of the connection and other intangible assets. Wherever an entirely
new industry is started it has to meet certain initial expenses. It has to placate, to use
the unpleasant American word, various interests in order to get to work, or it has to lay out
money, in building up a concern by advertising or otherwise. It is impossible that every penny
which is put into it will go into actual buildings, plant, machinery, and stock-in-trade.

In America the system has been preferred by which the actual tangible assets of a new concern
are financed wholly or largely by issues of bonds or Preferred stock, and the Common stock
is given away to those interested in the promotion, for them either to hold or to use in order
to secure the co-operation of those who may be useful, or modify the opposition of those who
may be dangerous. The net result of it is that the Common stock is represented in fact by goodwill
or the power to get to work. If the company prospers, then it is the business of those who
hold these Common shares to see that assets are accumulated out of profits, to be held against
their Common stock, so squeezing the water out of it and making it good. The system thus possesses
this very considerable advantage, that those who promote a company are interested in its future
welfare, and watch over it and guide it through its subsequent existence, putting energy and
good management at its disposal in order that the paper which they hold may be represented,
not by water, but by real assets, and so may bring them a tangible reward. It has thus in some
ways a great advantage over the English system, by which the company promoter is too often
concerned merely in the immediate success of the promotion. He is, as one of the greatest of
them described himself, a mere midwife, who brings the interesting infant into the world, pats
its little head, says good-bye to it, and leaves it to take care of itself throughout its troubled
existence. By the American system the promoter is not a midwife but a doctor who assists at
the birth of the infant, and also watches over its youth and makes every effort to guide its
toddling footsteps in such a way that it may grow into lusty manhood. It is not until he has
done so that he is enabled, by the sale of the shares which were given to him at the beginning,
to realise the full profit which he expected. The profits realised by this method are in many
cases enormous. On the other hand, the amount of work that is put in to secure them is infinitely
greater than happens in the case of the English midwife promoter; and if the enterprise is
a failure, then the promoter goes without his profits.

The system, like everything else, is liable to abuse, if a rascally board of directors, in
a hurry to unload their holding of Common stock on an unsuspecting public, makes the position
and prospects of the company look better than they are by unscrupulous bookkeeping and extravagant
distribution of profits, earned or unearned. These things happen in a world in which the ignorance
of the public about money matters is a constant invitation to those who are skilled in them
to relieve the public of money which it would probably mis-spend; but, if well and honestly
worked, the system is by no means inherently unsound, as some English critics too often assume,
and it has been shown that it carries with it a very great and substantial advantage in the
hands of honest people who wish to conduct the business of company promotion on progressive lines.

A few months ago, writing in this Journal on the subject of banking amalgamations, I referred
to one of the objections against them, that they tended towards the creation of monopoly, and
so encouraged hope on the part of those who would like to see all forms of industry managed
by the State, that the banking business might sooner or later be taken over and worked as a
State monopoly. At that time this danger of monopoly seemed to be still fairly remote, but
since then the progress of amalgamations has brought it appreciably nearer, and so has vigorously
stimulated both the hopes and fears of those who consider that it tends to bring nearer the
seizure of banking business by the State. The fear is expressed by Sir Charles Addis, manager
of the Hongkong Bank and director of the Bank of England, in the July number of the Edinburgh
Review in a very interesting article on the "Problems of British Banking." Sir Charles observes
that:

    "It may even be questioned whether the gigantic size they have
    already attained does not constitute a menace to the predominant
    position which the Bank of England has hitherto enjoyed as the
    bankers' bank. How will the Bank of England be able to maintain
    its supremacy and control the money market, surrounded by banks
    individually greater and more powerful than itself, especially
    when the object in view is by raising the rate of interest to
    prevent an internal or external drain upon our gold reserve? It is
    even conceivable that the finance of the State may be threatened,
    and it is probably for this reason that in Germany the Prussian
    Minister is said to be considering a State monopoly of banking.
    Nor can the psychological effect of these great aggrandisements of
    capital in the hands of a few banks be ignored. They are virtually
    Government-guaranteed institutions. The insolvency of one of
    the great banks would involve such widespread disaster that no
    Government could stand aside. They would be compelled to make use
    of the national resources in order to guarantee the solvency of
    private banks. From Government guarantee to Government control
    is but a step, and but one step more to nationalisation. We are
    playing into the hands of Mr Sidney Webb and the Socialists."

As it happens, in the July number of the Contemporary Review, Mr Sidney Webb was developing
the same theme, namely, the inevitability of banking monopoly and the necessity, as he conceives
it, of defeating private monopoly for the sake of profit, by State monopoly to be worked, as
he hopes, in the public interest. His article is headed by the rather misleading title, "How
to Prevent Banking Monopoly," for, as has been said, Mr Webb very much wants monopoly, says
that it cannot be helped, and sees the fulfilment of some of his pet Socialistic dreams in
the direction of it by the bureaucrat whom he regards as the heaven-sent saviour of society.
His very interesting argument is most easily followed by means of a series of quotations.

    "We are, it is said, within a measurable distance of there
    being--save for unimportant exceptions--only one bank, under
    one general manager, probably a Scotsman, whose power over the
    nation's industry would be incalculable. Even in the crisis of the
    war the matter is receiving the attention of the Government.

    "In the opinion of the present writer, the amalgamation of banks
    in this country, which has been going on continuously for a
    century, though at varying rates, and is being paralleled in
    other countries, notably in Germany, and latterly in the Canadian
    Dominion, is an economically inevitable development at a certain
    stage of capitalist enterprise, and one which cannot effectively
    be prevented."

Mr Webb considers that there is no economic limit to this policy of amalgamation, and that
the gains it carries with it are obvious. He dilates upon these as follows:--

    "It may be worth pointing out:

    "(a) That apart from the obvious economies in the cost of
    administration, common to all business on a large scale, there is,
    in British banking practice, a special advantage in a bank being
    as extensive and all-pervasive as possible. Where distinct banks
    co-exist, there can be no assurance that the periodical shifting
    of business, the perpetual transformations in industrial
    organisation, the rise and fall of industries, localities or
    firms, the changes of fashion and the ebb and flow of demand,
    and even a relative diminution of reputation may not lead to a
    shrinking of the deposits and current account balances of any one
    bank, or even of each bank in turn. Accordingly, every bank has to
    maintain an uninvested, or, at least, a specially liquid, reserve
    to meet such a possible withdrawal. The smaller, the more
    numerous, the more specialised by locality or industry are the
    competing banks, the larger must be this reserve. On the other
    hand, if all the deposit and current accounts of the nation were
    kept at one bank, even if it has innumerable branches, as the
    experience of the Post Office Savings Bank shows, no such shifting
    of business would affect it; no mere transfers from firm to
    firm or from trade to trade would involve any shrinking of its
    aggregate balances; and it would need only to have in hand,
    somewhere, sufficient currency to replenish temporarily a local
    drain on its 'till money.' The nearer the banks can approach to
    this condition of monopoly, not only the lower will be their
    percentage of working expenses, but also the greater will be the
    financial stability, and the smaller the amount that they will
    need to keep uninvested in order to meet possible withdrawals.

    "(b) That the process of amalgamation has involved an
    ever-increasing elimination, from the British banking business, of
    the typical profit-maker, first as partner in a private bank, then
    as a director in a Joint Stock bank, representing a large personal
    holding of shares; and the gradual transfer of practically the
    whole conduct of the business to what may be called 'disinterested
    management'--that is to say, management by trained, professional
    officers serving for salaries, whose remuneration bears no
    relation to the profit made on each piece of business transacted.
    The part played in the business by the directors themselves seems
    to be, with every increase in the magnitude and scope of the
    concern, steadily diminishing; and these directors, moreover, come
    to be chosen, more and more, not because of their large holdings
    of shares, or because of their ancestral or personal connection
    with banking, but because of their reputation or influence,
    commercial, social or political. The result is that, along with
    the process of amalgamation, there has been going on a transfer
    of the whole management of banking to the hierarchy of salaried
    officials; whilst the supreme decisions on financial policy are in
    the hands, in practice, of a very small group of salaried general
    managers, only partially in consultation with an equally small
    group of chairmen of boards of directors, themselves usually
    drawing not inconsiderable salaries."

It seems to me that Mr Webb exaggerates in rather a dangerous degree the reduction, through
amalgamation, of the necessity which obliges a bank to keep a considerable reserve of cash.
It is quite true that under normal circumstances cash withdrawn from one bank finds its way
in due course to another, and that with regard to these mere "till money" transfers there might
be a considerable reduction in the amount of cash required if all the banking of the country
were in the hands of one business, so that what was withdrawn from one branch would be paid
into another. But this fact would not alter the need which compels a bank to keep considerable
reserves in cash in order to provide against the possibility of a run. A State bank, if the
public takes it into its head that it prefers to have a larger proportion of currency in its
own pocket rather than in its bank, may find itself pulled at for cash just as vigorously as
a bank managed by private enterprise. This was shown in August, 1914, when very large sums
were withdrawn from the Post Office Savings Bank during the crisis which then impelled many
members of the public to hoard money, or compelled them to take it out of their banks because
they did not find that the ordinary system of payment by cheques was working with its usual
ease. Sir Charles Addis, in the article already referred to, calls attention in a very striking
passage to the efficiency of the administration of German and English banks, and makes a comparison
between the remuneration given to the banking boards of the two countries. The passage is as
follows:--

    "Scarcely second in importance to the financial strength of a
    bank is the efficiency of its administration. The German board of
    direction is composed, to an extent unknown in England, of men
    possessed of professional and technical knowledge. No one who has
    been present at a meeting of German bank directors in Berlin, when
    some foreign enterprise has been under consideration, can have
    failed to be impressed by the animation with which it was
    discussed, and by the expert and comparative knowledge displayed
    by individual directors of the enterprise itself and of the
    conditions prevailing in the foreign country in which it was
    proposed to undertake it. He may have been led to reflect ruefully
    upon the different reception his project met with in his own
    country. He will recall the meeting of the London board; the
    difficulty of withdrawing its members even temporarily from their
    country pursuits and their obvious anxiety to lose no time in
    returning to them; most of them old men, many of them long retired
    from business; some of them ex-Government officials and the like,
    who have never been in business; a few ornamental titled persons;
    only one or two here and there who have no train to catch and are
    willing to discuss the matter in hand with attention, and, it may
    be, with understanding.

    "It would be idle to pretend that a board of this kind constitutes
    anything like the nexus between industry and finance which obtains
    in Germany, and which is very much to be desired in this country.
    It may be that we do not pay our men enough. A London director has
    to be content with an honorific position, a fee of a few hundred
    pounds a year, and, it must be added, a very exiguous degree of
    responsibility. That is not enough to attract men in the prime of
    life with expert or technical knowledge of industry and finance,
    who would have to submit to a reduction in the large incomes they
    are earning by the exercise of their special abilities if they
    were to accept a seat on the board of a bank. There are two things
    which a good man, in the business sense of the term, will not
    do without--pay and responsibility. Give him sufficient of the
    former, and you may saddle him with as much of the latter as you
    like. You may not always get good men by offering them good pay,
    but you will certainly not get them without doing so. Apparently
    shareholders are content so long as their profits are not reduced
    by more than nominal directors' fees. At a recent meeting of a
    bank with deposits of over £200,000,000 the proposal to increase
    the directors' fees to £1000 a year was met by the rejoinder from
    one of the shareholders present that he did not know what the
    directors would do with such a sum.

    "They manage these things differently in Germany. In the three
    banks to which we have already referred, after payment by the
    Deutsche Bank of 5 per cent. of the net profits to reserve, and
    of the ordinary dividend of 6 per cent., and by the
    Disconto-Gesellschaft and the Dresdner Bank of 4 per cent., the
    directors receive respectively 7 per cent., 7-1/2 per cent., and
    4 per cent. (the Disconto's personally liable partners receive 16
    per cent.) out of the remainder. The directors are bound by law
    to supervise all the details of the bank's business, and to keep
    themselves well informed as to its general policy and methods of
    management. They are bound by law to exercise the caution of
    a careful business man, and are liable to be sued for damages
    arising out of the crime or negligence of their employees. If
    cases of this kind are seldom brought to public notice, it is not
    because they do not occur, but because the directors, as a rule,
    prefer to pay up for the laches of their employees, as they can
    well afford to do out of their profits, rather than be haled
    before the Court."

When Mr Webb comes to the question of the dangers resulting from monopoly, he finds that they
lie chiefly in a restriction of facilities, and in raising the price exacted for them, and
that in both respects the danger appears to be great. There is, he says, every reason to expect
that the banker, as the nearest approach to the "economic man," will take the opportunity of
raising his charges either by increasing the frequency and the rate of the commission exacted
for the keeping of a small account, or by reducing the rate of interest allowed on balances,
or adopting the common London practice of refusing it altogether. "The banker, who is not in
business for his health, may be expected, on this side of his enterprise, to pursue the policy
of 'charging all that the traffic will bear.' It would probably pay the banker actually to
refuse small accounts, and to penalise the employment of cheques for small sums. This would
be a social loss."

With regard to the other side of his business, lending to the borrowers, Mr Webb thinks it
need not be assumed that the monopolist banker will actually lend less, because he will seek
at all times to employ all the capital or credit that he can safely dispose of, but Mr Webb
thinks that he is likely, as the result of being relieved of the fear of competition; to feel
free to be more arbitrary in his choice of borrowers, and therefore able to indulge in discrimination
against persons or kinds of business that he may dislike; that he will raise his charges generally
for all accommodation, again, theoretically to "all that the traffic will bear"; and, finally,
that in times of stress with regard to all applicants, and at all times with regard to any
applicant who was "in a tight place," that he will extort as the price of indispensable help
a theoretically unlimited ransom.

Such are the effects which Mr Webb fears from the process which has already put the control
of the greater part of the banking facilities of England into the hands of five huge banks.
He thinks that these things may happen long before it is a question of an absolute monopoly
in one hand. A monopoly, he says, may be more or less complete, and the economic effects of
monopoly may be produced to a greater or less degree at a point far below a complete monopolisation
in a single hand. There is much truth in this contention of his. Amalgamation has now come
to such a point that every new one not only brings absolute monopoly more closely in sight,
but increases the ease with which agreements among the huge banks might suffice to produce
the effects of monopoly without further amalgamations. Mr Webb goes on to argue that it is
impossible to stop by legislative prohibition or restriction the progress towards economic
monopoly where such progress is financially advantageous to those concerned, and that the only
remedy ultimately by which the community can be protected from the dangers which he sees threatening
it is for the community to take the monopoly into its own hands, and so to get rid, not of
the monopoly, which, from the standpoint of national organisation, he thinks is advantageous,
but of the motives leading to extortion. If, he says, "no shareholders are in control with
their perpetual and insatiable desire for profit, there is no inducement to take advantage
of the needs or helplessness of the customers by restricting service or raising prices." In
this sentence, of course, he begs the whole question between the advantage of private enterprise
and of Socialistic organisation. Private enterprise works for profit, and therefore makes as
much profit as it can out of its customers. It is, therefore, according to Mr Webb's argument,
probable that if private enterprise in banking is able to establish monopoly it will squeeze
the public to the point of restricting banking facilities and making them dearer. No one can
deny that there is some truth in this contention, but, on the other hand, it may very fairly
be argued that modern business has perceived the great advantages of a big turnover and small
profits on each transaction. The experience of the great insurance companies, and of great
catering companies, and of enormous private organisations such as the Imperial Tobacco Company,
has shown the enormous advantage of providing cheap facilities to the largest possible number
of customers; so that fears of natural restriction of banking facilities, through monopoly,
if they cannot be set altogether aside, are not by any means a certain consequence even of
the establishment of monopoly in private enterprise.

Still weaker is Mr Webb's assumption that if the interests of the shareholders with "their
perpetual and insatiable desire for profit" were eliminated, cheap and plentiful banking facilities
would inevitably result from bureaucratic management. The contrary has been shown to be the
case in the examples of the Post Office, of the Telephone Service, and the London Water Supply.
In the case of the telegraph and the telephones, the Government took over prosperous businesses,
and has managed them at a loss. In the matter of the Post Office it is not possible to compare
the Government with individual enterprise, but it will generally be admitted that the Telephone
Service has by no means been improved since the Government took it over. Mr Webb points out
that nationalisation, whether of banks or of other forms of enterprise, does not necessarily
mean government under a Minister by a branch of the Civil Service. But it is impossible to
ignore the fact that as soon as nationalisation takes place those who are responsible for the
management of the enterprise are practically certain to develop the qualities and idiosyncrasies
of civil servants, which are so unlikely to tend to elasticity, rapidity and efficiency in
business management.

In fact, Mr Webb practically grants this point by the very interesting development he suggests
by which the two chief functions of banking should be differentiated, and one of them should
be nationalised and the other should remain in the hands of private enterprise. He develops
this truly ingenious suggestion as follows:--

    "Just as we have (except for some obsolescent survivals) separated
    the function of issuing paper money from that of keeping current
    accounts, so we shall separate the function of keeping current
    accounts from that of money-lending. The habit of the British
    banker of combining in one and the same concern (a) the
    essentially routine business of keeping current accounts or
    receiving deposits; and (b) the much more difficult and
    hazardous business of lending capital to private traders, is not
    a necessary characteristic of banking organisation; and, whilst
    possibly the most profitable to the profit-seeking banker, this
    combination may not be the most advantageous from the standpoint
    of the community.

    "It may accordingly be suggested that the business of banking, as
    understood in this country, is destined to be further divided into
    two parts, one of which is ripe for immediate nationalisation, and
    need no longer be carried on for private profit, whilst the
    other should be the sphere of a number of separate and diversely
    specialised organisations catering for particular needs. The whole
    of the deposit and current account side of banking--with its
    services in the way of keeping securities, collecting dividends,
    meeting calls, making regular payments, and carrying through the
    purchase and sale of securities--ought to be united with the Post
    Office and Trustee Savings Banks and the money order and other
    postal remittance business, and run as a national service for the
    receipt and custody of cash, for the utmost possible development
    of the cheque system, and for the cheapest possible organisation
    of remittances. There is no longer any reason why this important
    branch of social organisation should be abandoned to the
    profit-maker, should be made the instrument of levying an
    unnecessarily heavy toll on the customers for the benefit of
    shareholders, and should now be exposed to the imminent danger of
    monopoly.

    "If the receipt and custody of deposits and the keeping of current
    accounts were made a public service the Government might invest
    the funds thus placed at its disposal in a variety of ways. A
    certain proportion, perhaps corresponding to what is now held
    as savings, would be invested, as at present, in Government
    securities--not Consols, but such as are repayable at par at fixed
    dates, including Treasury Bills and Terminable Annuities; and any
    increase in this amount would, in effect, release so much capital
    for other uses, by paying off part of the National Debt. But the
    bulk of the amount, corresponding with the proportion of their
    resources that the bankers now lend for business purposes, might
    be advanced, for terms of varying duration, partly to Government
    Departments and local authorities for all their great and rapidly
    extending enterprises, formerly abandoned to the profit-maker; and
    partly to a series of financial concerns, whose business it should
    be to discount the bills and satisfy the requests for loans of
    those profit-makers who now appeal to the bankers. But these
    financial concerns should be organised, it is suggested, very
    largely by trades and industries, specialising in particular
    lines, and devoted, so far as possible, to meeting the business
    needs of the different occupations. Whether they should be
    financial concerns, owned and directed by shareholders, and ran
    for their profit; or whether they might not, in some cases, be
    owned and directed by the great industrial associations and
    combinations that the Government is now promoting in the various
    industries, and be run for the advantage of the industries as
    wholes, may be a matter for consideration and possible experiment.
    In either case, the concerns to which the Government would lend
    its capital would, of course, have to be of undoubted financial
    stability to be secured, it may be, by large uncalled capital,
    or by the joint and several guarantees of a numerous membership;
    coupled, possibly, with a charge on the assets."

At first sight this proposal to differentiate the functions of banking is somewhat startling,
and one wonders whether it could possibly work. On consideration, however, there seems to be
nothing actually impracticable about the scheme. The Government would presumably take over
all the offices and branches of the banks of the country, and would therein accept money on
deposit and current account, making itself liable to pay the money out on demand or at notice,
as the case may be, just as is done by the existing banks; it would hold the necessary cash
reserve, and it would apparently itself invest a certain proportion of the money in Government
securities, as the banks do at present. The more difficult part of the banking business, the
advancing of money to borrowing customers, it would hand over to financial institutions, created
for this purpose presumably out of the ashes of the nationalised banking business. These institutions
would make themselves responsible for the lending side of banking, and would obviously, and
naturally, be allowed to make a profit on this side of the business. In this differentiation
Mr Webb's ingenuity is seen at its very best. He reserves for the State that part of banking
which is purely a matter of routine, and he leaves to private enterprise that part of it which
requiries the elasticity and judgment and quickness in which the average bureaucrat is most
likely to fail. A certain amount of friction may easily arise from this differentiation. The
interest that the State would be enabled to allow to depositors would clearly depend to a great
extent on the interest which it would be able to receive from the financial institutions engaged
in lending the money. These institutions could naturally pay the State interest according to
the rate which they were able to charge their borrowing customers, leaving themselves a margin
for profit and for protection against the risk that their business would involve. It is obvious
that there might at times be considerable difficulty in adjusting these two different points
of view, and anybody who knows anything about the length of time and argument involved in inducing
officials to make up their minds can only fear that occasional jarring in this connecting link
between the two sides of banking might sometimes produce effects which would be awkward for
the industry of the country.

But apart from this obvious difficulty, can we contemplate with equanimity the prospect of
the State monopoly of the ordinary banking facilities as they present themselves to the man
in the street, namely, the provision of bank branches, the use of the cheque book, the custody
of securities and any other articles that the customer wishes to leave with his bank? At present
the ease and quickness with which these routine matters of banking are carried out in England
are developed to a point which is the envy of foreign visitors. How would it be if every cashier
of every bank were converted by the process of nationalisation from the kindly, businesslike
human being as we know him into the kind of person who ministers to our wants behind the counters
of the Post Office? As it is, we go into our bank, to present a cheque in order to provide
ourselves with cash for the daily purposes of life; the cashier looks at the signature, recognises
the customer, hands him over the money. If that cashier became a Government official how long
would it take him to verify the signature, to see whether the customer really had a balance
to his credit, and finally furnish him with what he wanted? It is obvious that the change suggested
by Mr Webb, though it might work, could only work to the detriment of the convenience of the
public, and his hopeful view that the elimination of the profits of the shareholders would
mean that these profits would go into the pockets of the community in the form of cheapened
facilities for banking customers is an ideal largely based on the assumption, that has so often
been proved to be incorrect, that the State can do business as well and as cheaply as private
enterprise. It is much more likely that after a few years' time the public would find the business
of paying in and getting out its money a very much more tedious and irritating process than
it is at present, and that the expenses of the matter would have grown to such an extent that
the taxpayer might be called upon annually to make good a considerable loss.

Many things that are now happening must be tickling the sardonic humour of the Muse of History.
The majority of the civilised Powers are banded together to overthrow a menace to civilisation,
carrying on a war which, it is hoped, is to produce a state of things in which mankind, purged
of the evil spirits of militarism and aggression, is to start on a new order of co-operation.
At the same time, while we are engaged in fighting under banners with these noble ideals inscribed
on them, a large number of citizens of this country are airing proposals aimed at restrictions
upon our intercourse with other nations, especially in the economic sphere. In last month's
issue of this Journal a very interesting article, signed "Veritas," discussed the question
as to how far it was in the power of the Allies to make use of the economic weapon against
their enemies after the war. That such a question should even be mooted as an end to a war
undertaken with these objects, shows what a number of queer cross-currents are at work in the
minds of many of us to-day. But some people go much further than that, and are advocating policies
by which we should even restrict our commercial and economic intercourse with our brothers-in-arms.
If the clamour for Imperial preference is to have any practical result, it can only tend to
cultivate trade within the British Empire, protected by an economic ring-fence at the expense
of the trade which, before the war, we carried on with our present Allies. And a large number
of people who, under the cover of Imperial preference, are agitating also for Protection for
this country, would endeavour to make the British Isles as far as possible self-sufficient
at the expense of their trade, not only with all their present Allies, but even with their
brethren overseas.

It is fortunately probable that the very muddle-headed reasoning which is producing such curious
results as these, at a time when the world is preparing to enter on a period of closer co-operation
and improved and extended relations between one country and another, is confined, in fact,
to a few noisy people who possess in a high degree the faculty of successful self-advertisement.
I do not believe that the country as a whole is prepared to relinquish the economic policy
which gave it such an enormous increase in material resources during the past century, and
has enabled it to stand forward as the industrial and financial champion of the Allied cause
during the difficult early years of the war. Our rulers seem to be sitting very carefully on
the top of the fence, waiting to see which way the cat is going to jump. They have made brave
statements about abrogating all treaties involving the most-favoured nation clause and about
adopting the principle of Imperial preference; but when their eager followers press them to
do something besides talking about what they are going to do, they then have a tendency to
return to the domain of common-sense and to point out that it is above all desirable that our
economic policy should be in unison with that of the United States.

Whatever may happen in the realm of trade and commercial policy, it would seem to be self-evident
that with regard to capital it would be still more difficult and undesirable to impose restrictions
than with regard to the entry of goods; and above all, it seems to be obvious that at any rate
the free entry of capital into this country is a matter which should be specially encouraged
when the war is over. At that difficult period we have to secure, if possible, that British
industry shall be entirely unhampered in its endeavours to carry out the very puzzling operations
involved by transferring its energies from war activities to peace production. However well
the thing may be managed, it will be an exceedingly difficult and complicated operation. In
certain industries, especially in shipbuilding and engineering, the building trade and all
the allied enterprises, those who are responsible for their efficient management ought to be
able to count upon a keen and widely-spread demand for their products. But in many industries
there will necessarily be a good deal of doubt as to the kind of article which the consuming
public at home and abroad is likely to want. There will be the great difficulty of sorting
out the right kind of labour, of obtaining the necessary raw materials, and of getting the
necessary credit and capital.

That this huge problem can be solved, and solved so well that the country can go ahead to a
great period of increased productivity and prosperity, I fully believe; but this can only be
done if it is able to command the most efficient co-operation of all the various factors in
production--if employers put their best brains and if workers put their best energy into the
business, and if everything is done to make the whole machinery work with the utmost possible
smoothness. One element in the machinery, and a highly important one, is the question of capital.
During the war the citizens of this country have been trained to save and to put their money
at the disposal of the Government with a success which could hardly have been expected when
the war began. Whether they will continue to exercise the same self-denial when the war is
over Is a very open question. At any rate, there can be no doubt that there will be a tendency
among a very large number of people who have answered the appeal to save money for the war
to listen with considerable indifference to any appeals that may be made to them to save money
in order to provide industry with capital. All the capital that industry can get, it will certainly
want. If, besides what it can get at home, it can also get a considerable amount from foreign
countries, then its ability to resume work on a prosperous and profitable basis when the war
is over will be very greatly helped. This would seem to be so obvious that one might have thought
that even a Government which is believed to be flirting with what is called Tariff Reform would
think twice before it imposed any restrictions on the free flow of foreign capital into British
industry. In so far as foreigners lend to us we shall be able to import raw materials, to be
worked up to the profit of British industry, in return for promises to pay--very timely convenience
at a critical moment.

Nevertheless, it would appear that obviousness of the desirability of foreign capital, from
whatever source it comes, is by no means evident to those who are now in charge of the nation's
destinies. At any rate, the Company Law Amendment Committee, which was appointed last February
"to inquire what amendments are expedient in the Companies Acts, 1908 to 1917, particularly
having regard to circumstances arising out of the war and of the developments likely to arise
on its conclusion," seems to have thought it necessary to provide the Government with schemes
by which alien capital could, if the Government thought necessary, be kept out of the country.
It was a powerful and representative Committee, and it is very satisfactory to note that its
own view concerning the policy to be pursued was strongly in favour of freedom. It points out
in its Report that the question which lay in the forefront of its investigations was that of
the employment of foreign capital in British industries. On the preliminary question of whether
it was desirable that foreign capital should be freely attracted to this country, there was
little, if any, difference of opinion. For this very sensible conclusion the Committee gives
rather a curious reason. It states that the maintenance of London as the financial centre of
the world is of the first importance for the well-being of the Empire, and that anything which
could impede or restrict the free flow of capital to the United Kingdom would, in itself, be
prejudicial to Imperial interests.

Now, of course, if is entirely true that the maintenance of London as a financial centre is
very important, but I venture to think that those who are most jealous concerning the prestige
of London and the importance of its financial operations would say that it ranks only second
to the industrial efficiency of the country as a whole and cannot, in fact, be long maintained
unless there is that industrial efficiency behind it, providing a surplus out of which London
may be able to finance the world and so, incidentally, and as a side issue, be to a great extent
helped by foreign capital to do so. It is surely evident that a financial supremacy which was
based merely on a jobbing business, gathering in capital from one nation and lending it to
another, would be an extremely precarious and artificial structure, the continuance of which
could not be relied on for many decades. Finance can only flourish healthily and wholesomely
in a country which produces a considerable surplus of goods and services which it is prepared
to place at the disposal of the world. Owing to the possession of this surplus it becomes a
market in capital, and so gets a considerable jobbing business, but the backbone and foundation
of its position must be, in the end, industrial activity in the widest sense of the word. It
therefore seems that the Committee's argument that the free flow of capital is essential to
the maintenance of London's finance might have been reinforced by the very much stronger one
that it is essential to the recuperative power of British industry, which will need every assistance
it can get in order to re-establish itself after the war.

The Committee points out that "any legislation which would tend to impede or restrict the free
flow of capital here by imposing restrictions or creating impediments ought to be jealously
watched, lest in the endeavour to prevent what has come to be called 'peaceful penetration'
the normal course of commercial development should be arrested," and it goes on to observe
that at the end of the war, "if it should be concluded upon such terms as we hope and anticipate,"
it is not likely that our present enemies will be in possession of capital looking for employment
abroad. This is certainly very true. By the time the Germans have made the reparations, which
will involve so much rebuilding in Belgium and in the parts of France that they have overrun
and swept clean of industrial plant, and have in other respects made good the damage which
their ruthless and uncivilised methods of warfare have inflicted, not only on their enemies,
but on neutrals, it does not seem likely that they will have much to spare for capital expansion
in foreign countries, especially when we consider how many problems of reconstruction they
will themselves have to face at home. "To impose restrictions upon the influx of capital,"
the Report continues, "aimed at our present enemies, with the result of deterring the flow
of capital from (say) America, would be a policy highly injurious to the economic recovery
and renewed prosperity of this country after the war. For these reasons we are of opinion that
in all amendments of the law falling within the scope of our reference, the expediency of the
attraction of foreign capital should be steadily borne in mind." The Committee thus seems to
have thought it necessary to administer comfort to anybody who might fear that the unrestricted
flow of capital from abroad might involve this country in the terrible danger of being assisted
in its industrial recovery by capital from Germany.

If there were, in fact, any possibility of this assistance being given, it would seem to be
extremely short-sighted not to allow British industry to make use of it. In the matter of "peaceful
penetration," we have ourselves in the past done perhaps as much as all the rest of the countries
of the world put together, with the result that we have greatly stimulated the development
of economic prosperity all over the world; in fact, it may be argued that the great progress
made in the last century in man's power over the forces of Nature has been to a great extent
due to the freedom with which we invested capital abroad and opened a free market to the products
of all other countries. At a time when, owing to exceptional circumstances, we ourselves happen
to be in need of capital, it would appear to be an extremely short-sighted policy to refuse
to admit it, wherever it came from. We have excellent reason to known that, when capital is
once invested in a foreign country, it is largely in the power of the inhabitants and Government
of that country to control its working. Any foreigner, even an enemy, who set up a factory
in England after the war would be doing just the very thing which we most of all want to be
done, namely, setting the wheels of industry going, relieving the labour market from a possible
glut after demobilisation, and helping that difficult stage of transition from war work to
peace work.

The Committee, however, considers that "at the root of the whole matter lies a question which
is not one of Company Law amendment at all, but one of high political and economic policy."
It does not fall within its province "to inquire whether the traditional policy of this country
to admit and welcome all who seek our shores and submit themselves loyally to our laws ought,
in the case of some and what aliens, to be revised"; or whether discrimination ought to be
made between an alien of one nationality and an alien of another. "As regards aliens who are
now our enemies, it may be that the British Empire may adopt the policy that a special stigma
ought to be attached to the German, and that neither as an individual nor as a firm, nor as
a corporation, ought he, for a time at any rate, to be admitted to commercial fellowship or
to any fellowship with the civilised nations of the world." It need not be said that any attempt
to apply this stigma in practice would be extremely difficult to carry out, would involve all
kinds of difficulties and complications in trade and in finance, and that the threat of it
is more likely than anything else to stiffen the resistance of the Germans and to force them
to rely on their militarist leaders as their only hope of salvation. However, the Committee
points out that recent legislation shows a desire to ascertain and record the extent to which
aliens are active in commerce here, and thinks it necessary to make provision to meet the requirements
of the Government in case our rulers should decide to impose the restrictions which its own
common-sense shows it are so undesirable.

If, it says, foreign capital is to be attracted here, it must be represented either by shares
or by debentures. "The question, therefore, is whether restrictions ought to be imposed upon
the extent to which the control of the company shall be allowed to reside in aliens, either
by reason of their holding a majority of the shares, or of the debentures, or by reason of
their obtaining a majority upon the Board of Directors; and, if so, how disclosure of their
alien character is to be enforced." It goes on to point out the great difficulties which present
themselves in the way of securing disclosure of nationality and ensuring that aliens shall
not command the control. "The law of trusts," it says, "is firmly established in this country.
If A, be the registered holder of a share, he is not necessarily the beneficial owner. He may
be a trustee for B. To enact that the registered holder must be a British subject effects nothing,
for B. may be an alien and an enemy. Suppose, however, that you enact that A., when his share
is allotted or transferred to him, shall make a declaration that he holds in his own right,
or that he holds in trust for B., and that both A. and B. are British subjects. There is nothing
to prevent the creation of a new trust the next day, under which C., an alien enemy, will be
the person beneficially entitled. Further, at the earlier date (the date of allotment or transfer)
the facts may be that A. (a British subject) is trustee for B. (a British subject), but that
B. (unknown to A.) is a trustee for C., an alien enemy. The fact that B. is trustee for C.
would be purposely withheld from A., and A.'s declaration that he was simply trustee for B.
would be perfectly true. To require that A. should make a declaration at short intervals (say
once a month), or that A., B., C., and so on, should all make declarations would be, of course,
so harassing and so detrimental as to be, as a matter of business, impossible. The only effectual
way of dealing with the matter would be by a provision that the share might be forfeited, or
might be sold and the proceeds paid to the owner, if an alien should be, or become beneficially
entitled to or interested in the share. Such a provision does not in the general case commend
itself to us as practical or desirable." Any endeavour to control the nationality of the Board
of Directors produces similar difficulties. It is easy to ensure that they shall be all, or
a majority of them, British subjects, but there is no means of ensuring that their actions
shall not be controlled by aliens whose nationality is not disclosed.

Having pointed out these difficulties, which seem in effect to reduce the whole question to
the domain of farce, the Committee goes on to inquire whether it is desirable to legislate
in the direction of forbidding the employment of foreign capital here in Joint Stock Companies,
unless:--

    (1) There is disclosure of the alien character of the foreign
    owner; (2) Not more than a certain proportion of the Company's
    shares are held by aliens; (3) The Board, or a certain proportion
    of the Board, shall not be alien;

and, further, whether it is desirable to discriminate between one alien and another, and to
legislate in that direction in the case of certain aliens and not of others.

In answering these questions, the Committee decided that it was necessary to discriminate between
certain classes of companies--Class A being companies in general, Class B being companies owning
British shipping, and Class C companies engaged in "key" industries. With regard to companies
in Class A, they recommend that no restrictions at all be imposed, but, nevertheless, they
elaborate a scheme of enforcing disclosure of alien ownership if that policy seems to the legislature
to be right. This scheme, the Committee admits, is necessarily detailed and laborious; it puts
difficulties in the way of investment in English securities, whether by British subject or
alien. It would supply, no doubt, to the Board of Trade useful information as to the extent
of foreign investment in English industries, but the price paid for this advantage would, in
the Committee's opinion, be too great. If adopted, the scheme could be evaded. And, with regard
to companies in general, the Committee's recommendations go the length of allowing complete
freedom as to the nationality both of the corporators and of the Board. They would allow, for
instance, American capitalists to come here and establish themselves as a British corporation
in which all the corporators and all the directors were American, and so with every other nationality.
They would make no discrimination between aliens of different nationality, for, if there is
to be such discrimination, there must be the machinery of disclosure, involving a deterrent
effect and acting prejudicially in the case of all investors. But, if any such discrimination
were adopted, the Committee thinks that at any rate it should be limited to some short period,
say, three or five years after the end of the war.

If, however, the legislature should decide upon the necessity of disclosure of alien ownership,
the Committee draws up the following scheme for securing it in Paragraph 15 of its Report:

    15. For reasons already given, it is not possible efficiently to
    ensure full disclosure, but the following suggestions would, in
    the absence of deliberate and intentional evasion (which would be
    quite possible), meet the point and in the large majority of cases
    would disclose the extent of alien interests and control:--

    (a) Every allottee of shares upon allotment and every transferee
    upon transfer should be required to make a declaration disclosing
    his nationality and whether he is the beneficial owner of the
    shares, and, if not, for whom he is trustee, and what is the
    nationality of the beneficial owner, and should undertake within
    a limited time, after any change in the beneficial ownership, to
    communicate the new facts to the company. In default of compliance
    with the above, the shares should, at the option of the company,
    either (1) be liable to sale by the company and the holder be
    entitled only to the proceeds; or (2) be liable to forfeiture and
    the holder be entitled to receive payment from the company of 10
    per cent. less than the market value of the share, or if there be
    no market value, then 10 per cent. less than the value at which
    the share would be taken for ad valorem stamp duty if it were
    the subject of transfer. In case the company made default in
    exercising its power, the Board of Trade should be authorised to
    require the above sale to be made.

    (b) Every director, upon coming into office, should be required to
    make a declaration disclosing his nationality and stating whether
    in his office he is wholly free from the control or influence of
    any alien, and if he is not so free, stating by whose directions
    or under whose control or influence he is to act and what is the
    nationality of that person, and should undertake within a limited
    time after any change in that state of things to communicate the
    facts to the Board and procure a statement of the facts to be
    entered in the Board minutes. Any breach of these obligations to
    be visited with a penalty which should be severe.

    (c) The company should be required to enter in the register
    of members, against the name of every registered member, his
    nationality as disclosed by the declaration. In the case where the
    registered member is not the beneficial owner, the company should
    be required to record, not in the register, but in another book,
    the nationality of the beneficial owner as disclosed by the
    declaration, and, as regards the latter book, to record the
    nationality of any new beneficial owner when and as disclosed by
    the registered member. These particulars should be required to be
    included in the annual list under Section 26 of the Act of 1908.
    That list would thus become not a list of members only, but a list
    of members with the addition of beneficial owners. The company
    should, further, be required to add to the annual list a summary
    of the result as regards nationality showing (1) as regards
    registered members, how many are British subjects and how many
    shares they hold, and how many are aliens and how many shares they
    hold, subdividing the number of the aliens and their holdings
    under their respective nationalities; and (2) as regards the
    registered members who are British subjects; (a) how many of them
    are the beneficial owners and how many shares they hold, and (b)
    as regards the rest, what are the nationalities and holdings of
    the beneficial owners.

With regard to companies owning British shipping, the Committee is satisfied that the total
exclusion of aliens from ownership of British ships is not essential for national safety and
is not expedient. It therefore considers that in these companies it will be sufficient to ensure
that not more than 20 per cent. of the power of control should be in alien hands. It thinks
that there should be this, limit of 20 per cent., that not more than 20 per cent. of the share
capital should be held by aliens, and that those shares should carry no more than 20 per cent.
of the voting power. Alternatively, it considers that the alien holdings should carry no vote
at all, but that is a point of detail deserving further consideration. It follows that in this
class there must, in the opinion of the Committee, be disclosure of nationality, which should
be enforced in the manner detailed above, which, on its own admission, is not proof against
deliberate evasion.

With regard to companies carrying on "key" industries, a very complicated system is recommended.
In the first place, the question whether a company is one to carry on a "key" industry would
seldom or never arise at the time of its registration. The modern Memorandum of Association
includes so many things that a "key" industry might be within the powers of almost any company.
The question would thus arise when the company has got to work. And so the Committee thinks
that the Board of Trade should be empowered at any time to make an inquiry whether any company
is carrying on a "key" industry and, if it finds that it is, then the company shall, at the
direction of the Board of Trade, require every registered member to make a declaration such
as, under the disclosure procedure already described, he would have had to make if he were
at the date of the notice about to receive an allotment or become a transferee. Further, the
holders of share warrants to bearer would be required to surrender their warrants for cancellation
and have their names entered in the register, and all subsequent allottees and transferees
would be subject to the obligation of disclosure, as already described, and the limits of 20
per cent. recommended in the case of merchant shipping would then be made applicable. Under
the system of disclosure it follows that bearer shares are impossible, but, if disclosure be
negatived, the opinion of the Committee is in favour of the maintenance of the bearer share.

It should be mentioned that one member of the Committee produced a reservation strongly combating
even the very moderate views expressed by the Committee on the subject of British shipping
and "key" industries. It should be noted, however, that he attended very few meetings of the
Committee. He points out that, with regard to the registration of ships as British when they
are owned by a company which has alien shareholders, "it is not usually a question of permitting
a ship which would in any case be British to be under the control of aliens; the question is
whether, if a number of persons, some or all of whom are aliens, own a ship, they should be
permitted to register it as a British ship by forming themselves into a British company and
establishing an office in the British Dominions. If," he observes, "they were not allowed to
do so they would still own the ship, but register it as a foreign ship in some other country.
It appears that a number of ships were registered here before the war by companies with alien
shareholders (some even with enemy shareholders). They were managed in this country; the profits
earned by them were subject to our taxation; they were obliged to conform to the regulations
of our Merchant Shipping Acts; they carried officers and men who were members of the Royal
Naval Reserve; on the outbreak of war our Government was able to requisition the ships owing
to their British registration and without regard to the nationality of the shareholders in
the companies owning them." It appears to this recalcitrant member--and there is much to be
said for his view--that all these consequences have been highly advantageous to this country.
On the subject of "key" industries he is equally unconvinced. It appears to him that "the important
thing is to get the industries established in this country, and that the question of their
ownership is of secondary consequence."

It is very satisfactory to note, in view of wild talk that has lately been current with regard
to restrictions on our power to export capital, that the Committee has not a word to say for
any continuance, after the war, of the supervision now exercised over new issues. The restrictions
which it did recommend, while admitting their futility, on imports of capital into our shipping
and "key" industries were evidently based on fears of possible war in future. The moral is
that this war has to be brought to such an end that war and its barbarisms shall be "spurlos
versenkt," and that humanity shall be able to go about its business unimpeded by all the stupid
bothers and complications that arise from its possibility.

Most people will admit that there are many glaring faults in the present economic structure
of society. Wealth has been increased at an exhilarating pace during the last century, and
yet the war has shown us that we had not nearly realised how great is the productive power
of a nation when it is in earnest, and that the pace at which wealth has been multiplied may,
if we make the right use of our plant and experience, be very greatly quickened in the next.
The great increase in wealth that has taken place has been certainly accompanied by some improvement
in its distribution; but it must be admitted that in this respect we are very far from satisfactory
results, and that a system which produces bloated luxury plus extreme boredom at one end of
the scale and destitution and despair at the other, can hardly be called the last word, or
even the first, in civilisation. The career has been opened, more or less, to talent. But the
handicap is so uneven and capricious that only exceptional talent or exceptional luck can fight
its way from the bottom to the top, the process by which it does so is not always altogether
edifying, and the result, when the thing has been done, is not always entirely satisfactory
either to the victorious individual or to the community at whose expense he has won his spoils.
The prize of victory is wealth and buying power, and the means to victory is, in the main,
providing an ignorant and gullible public with some article or service that it wants or can
be persuaded to believe that it wants. The kind of person that is most successful in winning
this kind of victory is not always one who is likely to make the best possible use of the enormous
power that wealth now puts into the hands of its owner.

Those who are fond of amusing themselves by looking back, through rose-coloured spectacles,
at more or less imaginary pictures of the good old mediaeval times, can make out a fair case
for the argument that in those days the spoils were won by a better kind of conqueror, who
was likely to make a better use of his victory. In times when man was chiefly a predatory animal
and the way to success in life was by military prowess, readiness in attack and a downright
stroke in defence, it is easy to fancy that the folk who came to the top of the world, or maintained
a position there, were necessarily possessed of courage and bodily vigour and of all the rough
virtues associated with the ideal of chivalry. Perhaps it was so in some cases, and there is
certainly something more romantic about the career of a man who fought his way to success than
about that of the fortunate speculator in production or trade, to say nothing of the lucky
gambler who can in these times found a fortune on market tips in the Kaffir circus or the industrial
"penny bazaar," Nevertheless, it is likely enough that even in the best of the mediaeval days
success was not only to the strong and brave, but also went often to the cunning, fawning schemer
who pulled the brawny leg of the burly fighting-man. However that may be, there can be no doubt
that now the prizes of fortune often go to those who cannot be trusted to make good use of
them or even to enjoy them, that Mr Wells's great satire on our financial upstarts--"Tono-Bungay"--has
plenty of truth in it, and that our present system, by its shocking waste of millions of good
brains that never get a chance of development, is an economic blunder as well as an injustice
that calls for remedy.

This being so, it is the business of all who want to see things made better to examine with
most respectful attention any schemes that are put forward for the reconstruction of society,
however strongly we may feel that real improvement is only to be got, not by reconstructing
society but by improving the bodily and mental health and efficiency of its members. The advocates
of Socialism have had a patient and interested hearing for many decades, except among those
to whom anything new is necessarily anathema. There was something attractive in the notion
that if all men worked for the good of the community and not for their own individual profit,
the work of the world might be done much better, because all the waste of competition and advertisement
would be cut out, machinery would be given its full chance because it would be making work
easier instead of causing unemployment, and a greater output, more evenly distributed, would
enable the nation to breed a race, each generation of which would come nearer to perfection.
So splendid if true; but one always felt misgivings as to whether the general standard of work
might not deteriorate instead of improve if the stimulus of individual gain were withdrawn;
and that the net result might probably be a diminished output consumed by a discontented people,
less happy under a possibly stupid and short-sighted bureaucracy, than it is now when the chances
of life at least give it the glorious uncertainty of cricket. Since the war our experiences
of official control, even when working on a nation trained in individual initiative, have increased
those misgivings manifold; and hundreds of people who were Socialistically inclined in 1914
will now say that any system which handed over the regulation of production and distribution
to the State could end only in disaster, unless we could first build up a new machinery of
State and a new people for it to work on.

Partly, perhaps, owing to this discredit into which the doctrines of State Socialism have lately
fallen, increasing attention has been given to a body of theory that was already active before
the war and advocates a system of what it calls Guild Socialism, under which industry is to
be worked by National Guilds, embracing all the workers, both by brain and by hand, in the
various kinds of production. Its advocates are, as far as I have been able to study their pronouncements,
decidedly hostile to State Socialism and needlessly rode to some of its most prominent preachers,
such as Mr and Mrs Webb, who at least merit the respect due to those who have given lives of
work to supporting a cause which they believe to be sound and in the best interests of mankind.
But in spite of their chronic and sometimes ill-mannered facetiousness at the expense of State
Socialism and its advocates, the Guild Socialists, as we shall see, have to rely on State control
for very important wheels in their machinery and leave gaps in it which, as far as disinterested
observers can see, can only be filled by still further help from the discredited State. It
is no disparagement of the efforts of these writers and thinkers to say that their sketch of
the system that they hope to see built up is somewhat hazy. That is inevitable. They are groping
towards a new social and economic order which, in their hope and belief, would be an improvement.
To expect them to work it out in every detail would be to ask them to commit an absurdity.
The thing would have to grow as it developed, and we can only ask them to show us a main outline.
This has been done in many publications, among which I have studied, with as much care as these
distracting times allow, "Self-Government in Industry," by G.D.H. Cole, "National Guilds,"
by A.R. Orage (so described on the back of the book, but the title-page says that it is by
S.G. Hobson, edited by A.R. Orage), and "The Meaning of National Guilds," by C.E. Bechhofer
and M.B. Reckitt.

These authorities seem to agree in thinking (1) that the capitalist is a thief, (2) that the
manual worker is a wage slave, (3) that freedom (in the sense of being able to work as he likes)
is every man's rightful birthright, and (4) that this freedom is to be achieved through the
establishment of National Guilds. As to (1) Messrs Bechhofer and Reckitt speak on page 99 of
their book of the "felony of Capitalism" as a matter that need not be argued about. Mr Cole
makes the same assumption by observing on page 235 of the work already mentioned that "to do
good work for a capitalist employer is merely, if we view the situation rationally, to help
a thief to steal more successfully." Well, this view of capital and the capitalist may be true.
Mr Cole is a highly educated and gifted gentleman, and a Fellow of Magdalen. He may have expounded
and proved this point in some work that I have not been fortunate enough to read. But as the
abolition of the capitalist is one of the chief aims put forward by these writers it seems
a pity that they should thus first assert that he is a thief to be stamped out, instead of
explaining the matter to old-fashioned folk who believe that capitalists are, in the main,
the people (or representatives of the people) who have equipped industry, and enormously multiplied
its efficiency and output, and so have enabled the greater part of the existing population
of this country (and most others) to come into being. But to the Guild Socialists the identity
of robbery with capitalism seems to be so self-evident that it needs no proof. Next, as to
the wage system. They seem to think that to earn a wage is slavery and degradation, but to
receive pay is freedom. With the best will in the world I have tried to see where this immense
difference between the use of two words, which seem to me to mean much the same thing, comes
in in their view, but I have not succeeded. Perhaps you will be able to if I give you Mr Cole's
own words.

On page 154 of the book cited, he says that the wage system is "the root of the whole tyranny
of capitalism," and then continues:

"There are four distinguishing marks of the wage system upon which National Guildsmen are accustomed
to fix their attention. Let me set them out clearly in the simplest terms,

"1. The wage system abstracts 'labour' from the labourer, so that the one can be bought and
sold apart from the other.

"2. Consequently, wages are paid to the wage worker only when it is profitable to the capitalist
to employ his labour.

"3. The wage worker, in return for his wage, surrenders all control over the organisation of
production.

"4. The wage worker, in return for his wage, surrenders all claim upon the product of his labour.

"If the wage system is to be abolished, all these four marks of degraded status must be removed.
National Guilds, then, must assure to the worker, at least, the following things:--

"1. Recognition and payment as a human being, and not merely as a mortal tenement of so much
labour power for which an efficient demand exists.

"2. Consequently, payment in employment and in unemployment, in sickness and in health alike.

"3. Control of the organisation of production in co-operation with his fellows.

"4. A claim upon the product of his work, also exercised in co-operation with his fellows."

Now, looking with a most dispassionate eye and an eager desire to find out what it is that
Labour and its spokesmen are grouping after, can one find in these "marks of degraded status"
any serious evil, or anything that is capable of remedy under any conceivable economic system?
In all of them the wage-earner is on exactly the same footing as the salary-earner or the professional
piece-worker. The labour of the manager of the works can also be abstracted from the manager,
and can be bought and sold apart from him. One would have thought that this fact is rather
in favour of the manager and of the wage-earner--or would Mr. Cole prefer that the latter should
be bought and sold himself? The salary-earner and the professional are only employed when somebody
wants them. The manager's term of employment is longer, but the professional pieceworker, such
as I am when I write this article, has usually no contracted term, and is only paid for actual
work done. I also have no control over the organisation of the production of Sperling's Journal
or any other paper for which I do piecework. I am very glad that it is so, for organising production
is a very difficult and complicated and risky business, and from all the risks of it the wage-earner
is saved. The salary-earner or the professional, when once his product is turned out and paid
for, also surrenders all claim upon the product. What else could any reasonable wage-earner
or professional expect or desire? The brickmaker or the doctor cannot, after being paid for
making bricks or mending a broken leg, expect still to have the bricks or the leg for his very
own. And how much use would they be to him if he could? Unless he were to be allowed to sell
them again to somebody else, which, after being once paid for them, would merely be absurd.
This, especially to an incurably lazy person like myself, is an extremely attractive programme.
To be paid, and paid well, merely in return for having "taken the trouble to be born," is an
ideal towards which my happiest dreams have ever struggled in vain. But would it work as a
practical scheme? Speaking for myself, I can guarantee that under such circumstances I should
potter about with many activities that would amuse my delicious leisure, but I doubt whether
any of them would be regarded by society as a fit return for the pleasant livelihood that it
gave me. And human society can only be supplied with the things that it needs if its members
turn out, not what it amuses them to make or produce, but what other people want. And It is
here that the National Guildsmen's idea of freedom seems, in my humble judgment, to be entirely
unsocial As things are, nobody can make money unless he produces what somebody wants and will
pay for. Even the capitalist, if he puts his capital into producing an article for which there
is no demand, will get no return on it. In other words, we can only earn economic freedom by
doing something that our fellows want us to do, and so co-operating in the work of supplying
man's need. (That many of man's needs are stupid and vulgar is most true, but the only way
to cure that is to teach him to want something better.) The Guildsmen seem to think that this
necessity to make or do something that is wanted implies slavery, and ought to be abolished.
They are fond of quoting Rousseau's remark that "man is born free and is everywhere in chains."
But is man born free to work as and on what he likes? In a state of Nature man is born--in
most climates--under the sternest necessity to work hard to catch or grow his food, to make
himself clothes and build himself shelter. And If he ignores this necessity the penalty is
death. The notion that man is born with a "right to live" is totally belied by the facts of
natural existence. It is encouraged by humanitarian sentiment which, rightly makes society
responsible for the subsistence of all those born under its wing; but it is not part of the
scheme of the universe.

Such are a few of the weaknesses involved by the theoretical basis on which Guild Socialism
is built. When we come to its practical application we find the creed still more unsatisfactory.
Even if we grant--an enormous and quite unjustified assumption--that the Guildsman, if he is
to be paid merely for being alive, will work hard enough to pay the community for paying him,
we have then to ask how and whether he will achieve greater freedom under the Guilds than he
has now. Now, freedom is only to be got by work of a kind that somebody wants, and wants enough
to pay for it. And so the consumer ultimately decides what work shall be done. The Guildsman
says that the producer ought to decide what he shall produce and what is to be done with it
when he has produced it. "Under Guild Socialism," says Mr Cole,[1] "as under Syndicalism, the
State stands apart from production, and the worker is placed in control." Very well, but what
one wants to know is what will happen if the Guilds choose to produce things that nobody wants.
Will they and their members be paid all the same? Presumably, since they are to be paid "as
human beings" and not because there is a demand for their work. But if so, what will happen
to the Guildsman as consumer? There will be no freedom about his choice of things that he would
like to enjoy. And what about admission to membership of a Guild, the price at which the Guilds
will exchange products one with another, and the provision of capital? The nearest approach
to an answer to these questions is given by Messrs Bechhofer and Reckitt in Chapter VIII, of
the "Meaning of National Guilds." This chapter describes "National Guilds in Being." It tells
us that "each man will be free to choose his Guild," which sounds very pleasant, but is completely
spoilt by the end of the sentence, which says "and actual entrance will depend on the demand
for labour." It sounds just like a capitalistic factory. And then--"Labour in dirty industries,
sewaging, etc.--will probably be in the main of a temporary character, and will be undertaken
by those who are for the time unable to obtain an entry elsewhere." Most sensible, but where
is the freedom? The Guildsman will not be able to do the work that he wants to do unless there
is a demand for that kind of labour, and in the meantime, just like the unemployed in the days
of darkness, he will be set to cleaning the streets and flushing the drains. Messrs. Bechhofer
and Reckitt are, in fact, so sensible and practical that they abandon altogether the freedom
of the producer to produce what he likes. "Indeed," they write, "a query often brought to confound
National Guildsmen is this: What would happen to a National Guild that began to work wholly
according to its own pleasure without regard to the other Guilds and the rest of the community?
We may reply, first, that this spirit would be as unnatural among the Guilds as it is natural
nowadays with the present anti-communal, capitalist system of industry" (but under the present
system any one who worked without regard to the rest of the community would very soon be in
the hands of a Receiver); "secondly, if it did arise in any Guild, this contempt for the rest
of the community would be met by the concerted action of the other Guilds. The dependence of
any individual Guild upon the others would be necessarily so great that a recalcitrant Guild
would find itself at once in a most difficult position, and a Guild that pressed forward demands
that were generally felt by the rest of the community to be impossible or unreasonable would
soon be brought back into line again."

[Footnote 1: "The Meaning of Industrial Freedom," page 39.]

Of course; but if so, where is the Guildsman's alleged freedom? Every Guild and every Guildsman
would have to adapt himself to the wants of the community, just as all of us who work for our
living have to do now. He would be no more free than I am, and I am no more free than the person
who is sometimes described as a "wage slave." The Guildsman might be happier in the feeling
that he worked for a Guild rather than a capitalist employer, but this is by no means certain.
The writers just quoted show with much frankness and good sense that there would be plenty
of opening for friction, suspicion, discontent and strikes. "A Guild," they say, "that thought
itself ill-used by its fellows would be able to signify its displeasure by the threat of a
strike." The officials of the Guild are to be chosen by the "men best qualified to judge" of
their ability, whoever they may be, and every such choice would be ratified by the workers
who are to be affected by it. "The Guild would build up in this way a pyramid of officers,
each chosen by the grade immediately below that which he is to occupy," Did not the Bolsheviks
try something like this system, with results that were not conducive to efficient production?
And to meet the danger that the officials as a whole might combine "in a huge conspiracy against
the rank and file," Messrs Bechhofer and Reckitt can only suggest vigilance committees within
the Guilds. In a word, Guild Socialism seems to be a system that might possibly be worked by
a set of ideally perfect beings; but as folk are in this workaday world one can only doubt
whether it would be conducive either to freedom, efficiency or a pleasant life for those who
lived under it.

Under this heading two very interesting articles were contributed to the October issue of Sperling's
Journal by Mr Alfred Hoare and an "Ex-M.P.," and the subject is clearly one to which, now that
the end of the war has been brought appreciably nearer by the feats of the Allied armies, too
much thought and discussion can hardly be given. How are we going to face the problem that
has been built up for us by the bad finance of the war, the low proportion of its cost that
has been paid for out of taxation, and the consequent huge debt with which--it is already over
£7000 millions gross--the State will be saddled? Mr. Hoare answered the question by proposing
a scheme of taxation of what he called Rente, by which he meant all forms of "unearned income"--"rentals
from freehold and leasehold property, interest upon loans whether public or private, and dividends
on joint stock companies or sleeping partnerships." He added that in his opinion earned income
above a certain figure might reasonably be added to this category on the ground that it has,
in some instances, very much the same characteristics as unearned; the income of a "successful
professional man or clown or jockey or opera star" being due to peculiar qualities; "and it
would be no great hardship if earned income above, say, a thousand a year for a married couple,
with an additional three hundred for every child under twenty-five years of age were regarded
as unearned, and taxed accordingly." Income was thus the basis of Mr Hoare's scheme. Rente
he regards as an agency regulating distribution, and requiring to be constantly checked. "It
is," he says, "an elementary principle of social health, and economic prosperity that the share
of the national wealth enjoyed by the Rentier, by the owner, that is, of unearned income, should
not be excessive," Most people who can follow his admirable example and take a detached and
unbiassed view of questions which affect their pocket so closely, will agree with him In this
opinion. The Rentier lives on the proceeds of work done in the past by him or by some other
person; and it is not good for our economic health that he should grow too fat at the expense
of those who are working now, lest the latter be discouraged and work with less spirit.

At the same time we have to remember that the work done in the past by the Rentier or those
whom he represents, has given us the plant and equipment (in the widest sense of the phrase)
with which we are now working. If, therefore, we penalise the Rentier too severely we shall
discourage his future creation; the present race of earners, if they see that those who are
living on past savings are shorn too close will be deterred from saving, will put their surplus
earnings into extravagant spending instead of into plant and equipment, and the economic future
of the nation, and of the world, will be pro tanto less hopeful. If once our fiscal system
is going to propagate the view--already so rampant among the happy-go-lucky citizens of this
unthrifty people--that the worst thing to do with money is to save it there will be bad times
ahead for our industry and commerce, which can only get the capital that it needs if somebody
saves it. Mr Hoare's elaborate calculations led him to conclusions involving a tax of 11s.
6d. in the pound on unearned income. This figure is, I hope, needlessly high. To arrive at
it he assumed that peace might be concluded towards the end of 1919, and that when peace conditions
are fully re-established--which will take, he thinks, three years, the National Debt will amount
to £10,000 millions, involving annual interest of £500 millions, which, added to the total
Rente of the country in 1913 (which he made out to be £520 millions), will make a total Rente
in 1923 of £1020 millions. His view is that the burden of the National Debt should be thrown
by means of the income tax upon the national Rente, not taxing it out of existence, but by
such a scale of taxation as would reduce the net Rente of the country to approximately the
level at which it stood before the war.

There is good reason to hope that Mr Hoare's figures will not be reached. He took £10,000 millions
merely as a round sum. Mr Bonar Law, it will be remembered, worked out our net debt on March
31st next at £6856 millions, taking credit for half the estimated amount of loans to Allies
as a good asset. If we prefer as sounder bookkeeping to write off the whole of our loans to
Allies for the time being and to apply anything that we may hereafter receive on that account
to Sinking Fund, the debt, on the Chancellor's figures, will amount on March 31st (if the war
goes on till that date) to £7672 millions. Even if the war went on for six months more it ought
not to bring the debt up to more than £9000 millions at the outside. It is quite true, as Mr
Hoare says, that the return to peace conditions will be a gradual process, and that expenditure
will not come back to a peace basis all at once. Demobilisation and other matters which were
left, by our cheery Chancellor, out of the airy after-war balance-sheet that he so light-heartedly
constructed, may cost £1000 millions or more before we have done with them. But against them
we can set a string of recoverable assets which, in the Chancellor's hands, footed up a total
of £1172 millions--balances in agents' hands, due debts (apart from loans to Allies), land,
securities, ships, buildings, stores In Munitions Department, arrears of taxation, and so on.
With his 11s. 6d. in the pound on unearned and 6s. in the pound on earned incomes, Mr Hoare
expects a revenue of £620 millions, "or enough to provide for the interest of the debt with
a 1 per cent. Sinking Fund, and leave £20 millions towards the Supply Services." But Mr Bonar
Law anticipated a total peace Budget (if the war ended by March 31st next) of £650 millions.
This was probably too low, but we may at least hope that Mr Hoare has gone rather further than
was necessary to be on the safe side.

