     A night of tears! for the gusty rain
       Had ceased, but the eaves were dripping yet;
     And the moon looked forth, as though in pain,
       With her face all white and wet:

     Nobody with me, my watch to keep,
       But the friend of my bosom, the man I love:
     And grief had sent him fast to sleep
       In the chamber up above.

     Nobody else, in the country place
       All round, that knew of my loss beside,
     But the good young priest with the Raphael-face,
       Who confessed her when she died.

     The good young priest is of gentle nerve,
       And my grief had moved him beyond control;
     For his lips grew white, as I could observe,
       When he speeded her parting soul.

     I sat by the dreary hearth alone;
       I thought of the pleasant days of yore.
     I said, "The staff of my life is gone;
       The woman I loved is no more.

     "On her cold, dead bosom my portrait lies
       Which next to her heart she used to wear,--
     Haunting it o'er with her tender eyes
       When my own face was not there.

     "It is set all round with rubies red,
      And pearls which a Peri might have kept;
     For each ruby there my heart hath bled;
       For each pearl my eyes have wept."

     And I said, "The thing is precious to me,
       They will bury her soon in the church-yard clay;
     It lies on her heart, and lost must be,
       If I do not take it away."

     I lighted my lamp at the dying flame,
       And crept up the stairs that creaked from fright,
     Till into the chamber of death I came,
       Where she lay all in white.

     The moon shone over her winding-sheet.
       There, stark she lay on her carven bed;
     Seven burning tapers about her feet,
       And seven about her head.

     As I stretched my hand, I held my breath;
       I turned as I drew the curtains apart;
     I dared not look on the face of death,
       I knew where to find her heart.

     I thought, at first, as my touch fell there,
       It had warmed that heart to life, with love;
     For the thing I touched was warm, I swear,
       And I could feel it move.

     'Twas the hand of a man, that was moving slow
       O'er the heart of the dead,--from the other side;
     And at once the sweat broke over my brow,
       "Who is robbing the corpse?" I cried.

     Opposite me, by the tapers' light,
       The friend of my bosom, the man I loved,
     Stood over the corpse, and all as white,
       And neither of us moved.

     "What do you here, my friend?" ... The man
       Looked first at me, and then at the dead.
     "There is a portrait here," he began;
       "There is. It is mine," I said.

     Said the friend of my bosom, "Yours, no doubt,
       The portrait was, till a month ago,
     When this suffering angel took that out,
       And placed mine there, I know."

     "This woman, she loved me well," said I.
       "A month ago," said my friend to me;
     "And in your throat," I groaned, "you lie!"
       He answered ... "Let us see."

     "Enough!" I returned, "let the dead decide:
       And whosesoever the portrait prove,
     His shall it be, when the cause is tried,
       Where Death is arraigned by Love."

     We found the portrait there in its place;
       We opened it, by the tapers' shine;
     The gems were all unchanged; the face
       Was--neither his nor mine.

     "One nail drives out another, at least!
       The face of the portrait there," I cried,
     "Is our friend's, the Raphael-faced young priest,
       Who confessed her when she died."

Upon the eighth night I was more than usually cautious in opening the door.

THE UNCLE

H. G. BELL

     I had an uncle once--a man
       Of threescore years and three,
     And when my reason's dawn began,
       He'd take me on his knee,
     And often talk, whole winter nights,
       Things that seemed strange to me.

     He was a man of gloomy mood,
       And few his converse sought;
     But, it was said, in solitude
       His conscience with him wrought;
     And then, before his mental eye,
       Some hideous vision brought.

     There was not one in all the house
       Who did not fear his frown,
     Save I, a little, careless child,
       Who gamboled up and down,
     And often peeped into his room,
       And plucked him by his gown.

     I was an orphan and alone--
       My father was his brother,
     And all their lives I knew that they
       Had fondly loved each other;
     And in my uncle's room there hung
       The picture of my mother.

     There was a curtain over it--
       'Twas in a darkened place,
     And few or none had ever looked
       Upon my mother's face;
     Or seen her pale, expressive smile
       Of melancholy grace.

     One night--I do remember well,
       The wind was howling high,
     And through the ancient corridors
       It sounded drearily;
     I sat and read in that old hall;
       My uncle sat close by.

     I read--but little understood
       The words upon the book,
     For with a sidelong glance I marked
       My uncle's fearful look,
     And saw how all his quivering frame
       In strong convulsions shook.

     A silent terror o'er me stole,
       A strange, unusual dread;
     His lips were white as bone--his eyes
       Sunk far down in his head;
     He gazed on me, but 'twas the gaze
       Of the unconscious dead.

     Then suddenly he turned him round,
       And drew aside the veil
     That hung before my mother's face;
       Perchance my eyes might fail,
     But ne'er before that face to me
       Had seemed so ghastly pale.

     "Come hither, boy!" my uncle said--
       I started at the sound;
     'Twas choked and stifled, in his throat,
       And hardly utterance found;
     "Come hither, boy!" then fearfully
       He cast his eyes around.

     "That lady was thy mother once--
       Thou wert her only child;
     O God! I've seen her when she held
       Thee in her arms and smiled--
     She smiled upon thy father, boy,
       'Twas that which drove me wild!

     "He was my brother, but his form
       Was fairer far than mine;
     I grudged not that;--he was the prop
       Of our ancestral line,
     And manly beauty was of him
       A token and a sign.

     "Boy! I had loved her too--nay, more,
       'Twas I who loved her first;
     For months--for years--the golden thought
       Within my soul was nursed;
     He came--he conquered--they were wed--
       My air-blown bubble burst!

     "Then on my mind a shadow fell,
       And evil hopes grew rife;
     The damning thought stuck in my heart,
       And cut me like a knife,
     That she, whom all my days I loved,
       Should be another's wife!

     "I left my home--I left the land--
       I crossed the raging sea;
     In vain--in vain--where'er I turned,
       My memory went with me;
     My whole existence, night and day,
       In memory seemed to be.

     "I came again, I found them here--
       Thou'rt like thy father, boy--
     He doted on that pale face there,
       I've seen them kiss and toy--
     I've seen him locked in her fond arms,
       Wrapped in delirious joy!

     "By Heaven! it was a fearful thing,
       To see my brother now,
     And mark the placid calm that sat
       Forever on his brow,
     That seemed in bitter scorn to say,
       I am more loved than thou!

     "He disappeared--draw nearer, child!--
       He died--no one knew how;
     The murdered body ne'er was found,
       The tale is hushed up now;
     But there was one who rightly guessed
       The hand that struck the blow.

     "It drove her mad--yet not his death--
       No--not his death alone;
     For she had clung to hope, when all
       Knew well that there was none;
     No, boy! it was a sight she saw
       That froze her into stone!

     "I am thy uncle, child--why stare
       So frightfully aghast?--
     The arras waves, but know'st thou not
       'Tis nothing but the blast?
     I, too, have had my fears like these,
       But such vain fears are past.

     "I'll show thee what thy mother saw--
       I feel 'twill ease my breast,
     And this wild tempest-laden night
       Suits with the purpose best.
     Come hither--thou hast often sought
       To open this old chest.

     "It has a secret spring; the touch
       Is known to me alone;
     Slowly I raise the lid, and now--
       What see you, that you groan
     So heavily? That thing is but
       A bare-ribbed skeleton."

     A sudden crash--the lid fell down--
       Three strides he backward gave,
     "Oh, God! it is my brother's self
       Returning from the grave!
     His grasp of lead is on my throat--
       Will no one help or save?"

     That night they laid him on his bed,
       In raving madness tossed;
     He gnashed his teeth, and with wild oaths
       Blasphemed the Holy Ghost;
     And, ere the light of morning broke,
       A sinner's soul was lost.

VI

SCENES FROM THE DRAMA

     The selections in this division are cut, condensed, and adapted for
     practical use as dramas or monologues. In some cases lines of the
     text as well as explanations are written in to connect the scenes
     for clearer unity. For scenes from Shakespeare and readings from
     the Bible, already universally printed and accessible, see the
     indexes and directions as to the omissions of lines in various
     cuttings in Fulton and Trueblood's "Choice Readings," published by
     Messrs. Ginn & Company.

THE BELLS

HENRY L. WILLIAMS

ACT III, SCENE I

     CHARACTERS: Hans Matthis, keeper of "the Merry Andrew"; Dr. Frantz,
     the magnetizer; the Judge.

     SCENE: Alsatia, in a hamlet at the foot of the mountains;
     Christmas, 1868; a room in an inn. Matthis, a prosperous
     burgomaster, recalls with friends the murder of a Polish Jew,
     fifteen years before. He wonders that the murderer has never been
     apprehended. The sound of sleigh bells is heard and the apparition
     of the Jew appears. Matthis is prostrated by the incident and
     consults a mesmerist, Dr. Frantz, who assures him that he has power
     to compel a criminal to divulge his secret thought. Matthis
     isolates himself and sleeps alone to avoid eavesdropping. On the
     night of his daughter's wedding he makes payment of her dowry, and
     as the money is laid on the table a sleigh bell falls from among
     the gold coins. He seeks his own room, falls asleep and dreams that
     he is before the court and that Dr. Frantz is mesmerizing him.

Enter MATTHIS

MAT. Happy fellow! happy fellows all of them! A man may play against fate if he only prepares
his cards--I hold none but good ones in my hand. Ha, ha! They have their skins full of my best
wine, and go home happy as kings. Ha, ha! there'll be some funny flounderings in the snow before
they reach home. It's singular what magic is melted into wine--one draught, and all the clouds
are sunshine. It's dark! it's very dark--and, though the wind has fallen, the fine snow sweeps
down the road like a train of phantoms. All is well! You may shake hands with yourself, Hans
Matthis! you have triumphed over both the world and Heaven! I am so sleepy! If I rest here
a--a moment? Ah! One is always drowsy in cold weather. No one can hear me if I speak--in a
dream--no one--the Jew!--dreams, nonsense! [Sleeps.]

Enter DR. FRANTZ and the JUDGE

DR. F. My lord, it is the will of this tribunal which leads me here, not mine.

JUDGE. Can you place that man in the mesmeric sleep?

