But theatrical stars were always accorded a special measure of deference by the colonists.
Thus, Miss Catherine Hayes, who was playing at an opposition house, was invited to luncheon
by the Bishop of Sydney and to dinner by the Attorney-General; and a Scottish conjurer, "Professor"
Anderson, was given an "address of welcome" by the Town Council.

While these particular honours were not enjoyed by Lola (who, for some reason best known to
herself, had elected to be entered in the passenger-list as "Madam Landsfeld Heald"), she was
none the less accorded considerable publicity. "The eccentric and much advertised Lola Montez,"
said the Herald on the morning after her New South Wales début, "pounces upon us direct from
California, and the excitement of her visit is emptying the opposition theatre. Last night
the Countess looked positively charming and acted very archly.... On the fall of the curtain,
she presented Mr. Lambert (who played the King of Bavaria) with an elegant box of cigarettes."

Naturally enough, the star was interviewed by the journalists. "At the Victoria Theatre," says
one of them, "I was privileged to have a talk with Madame Lola after the performance had concluded.
I found her--much to my surprise--to be a very simple-mannered, well-behaved, cigar-loving
young lady."

An odd picture of Sydney audiences is given by the author of Southern Lights and Shadows. "The
young ladies of Australia," he says, "are in many respects remarkable. At thirteen they have
more ribbons, jewels, and lovers than any other young ladies of the same age. They prattle
insipidly from morning to night. The first time I visited a theatre I sat next one of them
who had at least half a dozen rings worn over her gloves.... The affectation of ton among them
is astonishing. They are special patrons of the drama, and, on the appearance of a star, they
flock to the dress circle in hundreds. The pit is generally well filled with a display of shirt-sleeves,
pewter pots, and babies. The upper boxes are usually given up to that division of the community
partial to pink bonnets and cheeks to match; and flirtations are carried on in the most flagrant
and unblushing manner."

The author of this sketch also has something to say about Sydney as a town:

"One part of George Street is as much like Bond Street in London as it is possible for one
place to resemble another. Like Bond Street, too, it is hourly paraded by the Bucks and Brummels
of the Colony. The Café François is much frequented by the young swells and sprigs of the city.
Files of Punch, The Times, sherry coblers, an entertaining hostess, and a big-bloused lubberly
host are the special points left in my recollection. They serve 800 meals a day at this establishment,
the rent of which is £2,400 a year."

II

During this Sydney engagement, Lola, ever interested in the cause of charity, organised a "Grand
Sebastopol Matinée Performance," the proceeds being "for the benefit of our wounded heroes
in the Crimea." As the cause had a popular appeal, the house was a bumper one. Possibly, it
was the success of this matinée that led to an imaginative chronicler adding: "Our distinguished
visitor, Madame Lola Montez, Countess of Landsfeld, is, with her full company of Thespians,
on the point of leaving us for Balaclava. There, at the special request of Lord Raglan and
Miss Florence Nightingale, she will inaugurate a theatre for the enjoyment of our gallant warriors
and their Allies."

Another odd tit-bit was sent to England by the theatrical correspondent of a London paper.
This declared that a masculine member of her company "jumped into the harbour, mortified at
discovering that Madame Lola had turned a more friendly face on a younger brother of the Duke
of Wellington who had followed her to Sydney from Calcutta." The artistic temperament.

At intervals, however, other and better established items of news were received from Australia
and, as opportunity offered, found a niche in the London papers. From these it would appear
that all was not going smoothly with Lola's plans, and that the start of the Antipodean venture
was somewhat tempestuous.

"In Sydney," says a letter on the subject, "a regrettable fracas recently occurred at the theatre
where Madame Montez has been playing. Stepping in front she endeavoured to quell the uproar
by announcing that, while she herself 'rather liked a good row,' she would appeal to the gallantry
of the gentlemen in the pit and gallery to respect the wishes of a lady and not interfere with
the enjoyment of others by interrupting the performance. The request, however, fell on deaf
ears. The uproar continued for some time, and was much increased by the actors and actresses
squabbling among themselves on the stage."

There was a good deal of "squabbling" among the company. Its members were not a happy family.
They had been engaged by their principal to support her. Instead, however, of rendering such
support, a number of them did all they could to wreck the tour. Thereupon, Lola, adopting strong
measures, discharged the malcontents and left for Melbourne by the next steamer. That she was
justified in her action is clear from a letter which her solicitors sent to the Press:

     "Our client, Madam Lola Montez, was unwise enough to engage,
     at enormous cost to herself, a very inferior company in
     California. Before starting, she made large advances to
     every one of them; paid their passages from America (where
     they were nearly all heavily in debt) to Australia; and
     trusted that, in return for her immense outlay, she would at
     least receive efficient assistance from them. But this band
     of obscure performers not only loaded her with insults while
     they continued to live on her, but on their arrival in
     Sydney they one and all refused to discharge their allotted
     tasks."

     "When Madam Montez (not unnaturally irritated by such
     conduct) proposed, through us, to cancel their agreements on
     reasonable terms, they insisted on the fulfilment of the
     contract which they themselves had been the first to break,
     and made claims upon her amounting to about £12,000. This
     moderate demand being very properly refused by our client,
     they secured an order for her arrest in respect of a number
     of separate actions. Only one of these (a claim for £100)
     was lodged in time for a warrant to be issued. When,
     furnished with this, Mr. Brown, the sheriff's officer,
     appeared on board the steamer, Madam tendered him £500,
     which, however, he refused to accept, insisting that she
     should also settle the various other claims for which he did
     not have warrants. Our client refused to leave the vessel,
     for which refusal, we, as her solicitors, are quite willing
     to accept responsibility."

The fact that there was talk of instituting proceedings against the captain of the steamer
and his subordinates led the solicitors to add a postscript:

     "Those who governed the movements of the Watarah are ready
     to answer for their conduct. They saw a lady threatened with
     arrest at the last moment for a most unjust claim, tendering
     five times the amount demanded, and having that offer
     refused. Hence, they did not feel called upon to interfere."

Another account of the episode is a little different. This declares that, just before starting
from Sydney, she "dismissed with a blessing" two members of the company. As they wanted something
more easily negotiable, they issued a writ of attachment. When the sheriff's officer attempted
to serve it: "Madame Lola, ever ready for the fray, retired to her cabin and sent word that
she was quite naked, but that the sheriff could come and take her if he wanted to." An embarrassing
predicament; and, unprepared to grapple with it, "Poor Mr. Brown blushed and retired amid roars
of laughter."

Having thus got the better of the Sydney lawyers, and filled up the vacancies in her company
with fresh and more amenable recruits, Lola reached the Victorian capital without further adventure.
A picture of the city, as it was when she landed there, is given by a contemporary author:

     "Melbourne is splendid. Fine wide streets, finer and wider
     than almost any in London, stretch away for miles in every
     direction. At any hour of the day thousands of persons may
     be observed scurrying along them with true Cheapside
     bustle." The Melbourne youth, however, appears to have been
     precocious. "I was delighted," remarks this authority, "with
     the Colonial young stock. The average Australian boy is a
     slim, olive-complexioned young rascal, fond of Cavendish,
     cricket, and chuck-penny, and systematically insolent to
     girls, policemen, and new chums.... At twelve years of age,
     having passed through every phase of probationary
     shrewdness, he is qualified to act as a full-blown bus
     conductor. In the purlieus of the theatres are supper-rooms
     (lavish of gas and free-mannered waitresses), and bum-boat
     shops where they sell play-bills, whelks, oranges, cheroots,
     and fried fish."

But, notwithstanding the existence of these amenities, all was not well where Lola was concerned.
The Sydney correspondent of the Argus had injured her chances of making a favourable impression
by writing a somewhat imaginative account of her troubles there:

     "I need not tell you that the Montez has gone to Melbourne,
     as she will have arrived before this letter, and is not the
     sort of woman to keep her arrival secret. It may not,
     however, be so generally known that she has made what is
     colonially termed a 'bolt' from here.... Thinking, perhaps,
     that Australia was not yet a part of the civilised world,
     and that a company of players could not be secured here,
     Madame brought a set of comedians from San Francisco. They
     were quite useless. More competent help could have been had
     on the spot."

Lola said nothing. Her leading man however, Mr. Follard, had something to say, and wrote a
strong letter to the editor:

     "Permit me to state, with all due deference to your
     correspondent's term 'bolt,' that Madame Lola Montez left
     quietly and unostentatiously.... The attempt to stop her
     leaving Sydney and prevent her engagement in Melbourne was
     an exhibition of meanness at which every honest heart must
     feel disgusted. Alone, in a strange land, without friends or
     protector, her position as a woman should in itself have
     saved her from the unmanly abuse heaped upon her and the
     contemptible attitude manifested by some of her company."

A second adverse factor against which Lola had to contend in Melbourne was that prices had
been doubled for her engagement there. This was considered a grievance by the public. The difficulty,
however, adjusted itself, for the programme she offered was one that proved specially attractive.

"The highest degree of excitement was," ran the Herald criticism, "produced upon visitors to
the Theatre Royal by the actual presence of this extraordinary and gifted being, with the praises
of whose beauty and esprit the whole civilised world has resounded.... After curtseying with
inimitable grace to the audience, the fair artiste withdrew amidst a fresh volley of cheers."

But Lola, who never missed an opportunity of airing her opinions, aired them now:

"At the end of the performance," says a report, "Madame Lola Montez was vociferously called
and addressed the audience in an animated speech, commenting upon some remarks that had been
published in a certain journal. When a gentleman ventured to laugh while she was enumerating
the political benefits she had conferred on Bavaria, the fair orator promptly informed him
that such conduct was not usually considered to be courteous."

The Melbourne engagement finished up with a triple bill. The principal item was a novelty she
had, the "Spider Dance," which Lola had brought from America. In this she appeared with hundreds
of wire spiders sewn on her attenuated ballet skirts; and, when any of them fell off, she had
to indulge in pronounced wriggles and contortions to put them back in position. The accompanying
movements of her body were held to be by some standards "daring and suggestive." In fact, so
much so that the representative of the Argus dubbed the number "the most libertinish and indelicate
performance that could possibly be given on the public stage. We feel compelled," he continued
solemnly, "to denounce in terms of unmeasured reprobation the performance in which Madame Montez
here figures." Yet, Sir Charles Hotham, the Governor, together with Lady Hotham and their guests,
had witnessed it without sustaining any serious damage. But perhaps they were made of tougher
material.

The critic of the Morning Herald at this period (understood to be R. H. Horne, "the Jules Janin
of Melbourne") was either less thin-skinned or else more broad-minded than his Argus comrade.
At any rate, he saw nothing much to call for these strictures. Thinking that the newcomer had
not been given fair play, he endeavoured to counteract the adverse opinion that had been expressed
by publishing a laudatory one of a column length, in which he declared: "Madame Montez went
through the entire measure with marked elegance and precision, and the curtain fell amid salvoes
of well merited applause."

Convinced that here was a critic who really knew his business, and a friend on whom she could
rely to do her justice, Lola wrote to the editor:

     GRAND IMPERIAL HOTEL,

     September, 1855.

     SIR,

     A criticism of my performance of the "Spider Dance" at the
     Theatre Royal was published in this morning's Argus,
     couched in such language that I must positively answer it.

     The piety and ultra-puritanism of the Argus might prevent
     the insertion of a letter bearing my signature. Therefore, I
     address myself to you.

     The "Spider Dance" is a national one, and is witnessed with
     delight by all classes in Spain, and by both sexes from
     Queen to peasant.

     I have always looked upon this dance as a work of high art;
     and I reject with positive scorn the insinuation of your
     contemporary that I wish to pander to a morbid taste for
     what is improper or indelicate.

     I shall be at my post to-morrow evening; and will then adopt
     a course that will test the value of the opinion advanced by
     the Argus.

The promised "course" was merely to deliver a long speech from the stage, and ask the audience
to decide whether she should give the vexed item, or not. The audience were emphatic that she
should; and, when she had finished, "expressed their views on the subject by uttering loud
groans for the Argus and lusty cheers for the Herald."

Honours to Lola!

But the "Spider Dance" was still to prove a source of trouble. The next morning a certain Dr.
Milton, who had constituted himself a champion of morals, appeared at the police-court and
applied for a warrant for the arrest of Lola Montez, on the grounds that she had "outraged
decency."

"I am in a position," he declared, "to produce unquestionable evidence of the indelicacy of
her performance."

"You must take out a summons in the proper fashion," said the magistrate, who clearly had no
sympathy with busybodies.

But, before he could do so, Dr. Milton found himself served with a writ for libel. As a result,
nothing more was heard of the matter.

In addition to its Mawworms, of which it was afflicted with an appreciable number of specimens,
the city of Melbourne would appear to have had other drawbacks at this period. According to
R. H. Horne, local society was somewhat curiously constituted. "There is an attempt," he says,
"at the nucleus of a 'court circle'; and if the Home Government think fit to make a few more
Australian knights and baronets there may be good hopes for the enlargement of the enchanted
hoop. The Melbourne 'Almack's' is to be complimented on the moral courage with which its directors
have resisted the claims for admission of some of the wealthy unwashed and other unsuitables.
Money is not quite everything, even in Melbourne."

There were further strictures on the morals of Victoria, as compared with those of New South Wales:

     "The haunts of villainy in Sydney are not surpassed by those
     in Melbourne; but, with regard to drunkenness and
     prostitution, the latter place is far worse than Sydney. The
     Theatre Royal contains within itself four separate
     drinking-bars. The Café de Paris, in the same building, has
     two bars. In the theatre itself there is a drinking public
     every night, especially when the house is crowded. Between
     every act it is the custom of the audience to rush out for a
     nobbler of brandy. The only exceptions are the occupants of
     the dress-circle, more especially when the Governor is
     present."

By the way, the "List of Beverages" shows that, in proof of her popularity, a "Lola Montez
Appetiser," consisting of "Old Tom, ginger, lemon and hot water," was offered to patrons.

Alcohol was not alone among the objects at which "Orion" Horne tilted. He also disapproved
of cricket. "The mania," he says, "for bats and balls in the boiling sun during last summer
exceeded all rational excitement. The newspapers caught the epidemic, and, while scarcely noticing
other far more useful games, they devoted columns upon columns to minute accounts of the matches
of a hundred different clubs. The very walls of Melbourne became infected. On the return of
the Victorians from Sydney, a reporter for the Herald designated them 'the laurelled warriors.'
If there is no great harm in this, the thing has been carried too far."

It is just as well, perhaps, for Horne's peace of mind that the present day value attached
to "Ashes" had not arisen, and that an Australian XI did not visit England until another twenty
years had passed.

III

After Melbourne, the next step in Lola's itinerary was Geelong. The programme she offered there
was a generous one, for it included a "Stirring drama, entitled, Maidens, Beware! and the elegant
and successful comedy, The Eton Boy," to which were added a "sparkling comedietta" and a "laughable
farce." This was good value. The Geelong critic, however, did not think very much of the principal
item in this bill. "It has," he observed solemnly, "an impossible plot, with situations and
sentiments quite beyond the understanding of us barbarians."

This supercilious attitude was not shared by the simple-minded diggers, who found Maidens,
Beware! very much to their taste. But nothing else could have been expected, for it offered
good measure of all the elements that ensure success every time they are employed. Thus, the
hero is wrongfully charged with a series of offences committed by the villain; a comic servant
unravels the plot when it becomes intricate; and the heroine only avoids "something worse than
death" by proving that a baronet, "paying unwelcome addresses," (but nothing else) has forged
a will.

Having a partiality for the society of diggers, with whom she had always got on well, Lola
next betook herself to Ballarat. It was an unpropitious moment for a theatrical venture in
that part of the world. The atmosphere was somewhat unsettled. The broad arrows and ticket-of-leave
contingent who made up a large section of the community were clamouring for a republic; and
there was a considerable amount of rioting. A rebel flag had been run up by the mob; and the
military had to be called out to suppress the activities of the "Ballarat Reform League." Still,
Lola was not the woman to run away from danger. As she had told a Sydney audience, she "rather
liked a good row."

The coming of Lola Montez to Ballarat was heralded by a preliminary paragraph:

     "Our readers will be pleased to learn that the
     world-renowned Lola, a lady who has had Kings at her beck,
     and who has caused nearly as much upheaval in the world as
     Helen of Troy, is about to appear among us. On leaving
     Melbourne by coach, she presented the booking clerk with an
     autographed copy of a work by the famous Mrs. Harriet
     Beecher Stowe. Young gentlemen of Ballarat, look out for
     your hearts! Havoc will assuredly be played among them."

Her colourful career attracted the laureates. One of them found in it inspiration for a ballad,
"Lola, of the rolling black eye!" which was sung at every music-hall in the Colony. A second
effort regarded the matter in its graver aspects. The first verse ran as follows:

    She is more to be pitied than censured,
      She is more to be helped than despised.
    She is only a lassie who ventured
      On life's stormy path ill-advised.
    Do not scorn her with words fierce and bitter,
      Do not laugh at her shame and downfall,
    For a moment just stop to consider
      That a man was the cause of it all!

Ludwig of Bavaria had done better than this. A lot better. Annoyed at the innuendo it contained,
Lola flourished her whip afresh and threatened the bard with an action for damages.

The Victoria Theatre, Ballarat (where Lola Montez was to give the diggers a sample of her quality),
was a newly built house, "reflecting," declared an impressed reporter, "every modern elegance.
In front of the boxes," he continued, "are panels, chastely adorned with Corinthian festoons,
encircling a gilded eagle emblematic of liberty. Above the proscenium is an ellipse, exhibiting
the Australian coat of arms. The ceiling is ornamented by a dome, round which are grouped the
nine Muses, and the chandelier is the biggest in the Colony. From the dress-circle there is
direct communication with the adjoining United States Hotel, so that first-class refreshments
can be procured without the slightest inconvenience. There are six dressing-rooms; and Madame
Lola Montez has a private and sumptuously furnished apartment."

As the repertoire she offered was to include ("by special request") the "Spider Dance," she
took the precaution of sending a description of it to the Ballarat Star:

     The characteristic and fascinating SPIDER DANCE has been
     performed by MADAME LOLA MONTEZ with the utmost success
     throughout the United States of America and before all the
     Crowned Heads of Europe.

     This dance, on which malice and envy have endeavoured to fix
     the stain of immorality, has been given in the other
     Colonies to houses crammed from floor to ceiling with rank
     and fashion and beauty. In Adelaide His Excellency the
     Governor-General, accompanied by Lady McDonnell and quite
     the most select ladies of the city, accorded it their
     patronage, while the Free and Accepted Masons did Madame
     Lola Montez the distinguished honour of attending in full
     regalia.

It was on February 16, 1856, that Lola Montez opened at Ballarat. A generous programme was
offered, for it consisted of "the elegant and sparkling comedy, A Morning Call; the laughable
farce, The Spittalsfields Weaver; the domestic drama, Raffaelo, the Reprobate; and the Shakespearean
tragedy, Antony and Cleopatra; all with new and sumptuous scenery, dresses, and appointments."

In accordance with the fashion of the period, the star had to recite a prologue. An extract
from it was as follows:

    'Tis only right some hurried words to say
    As to the name this theatre bears to-day,
    For I would have you fully understand
    I seek for patrons men of every land.
    'Tis not alone through prejudice has been
    Attached the name of Britain's virtuous Queen.
    And may your gen'rous presence and applause
    Mutual content and happy evenings cause!

But this was merely an introduction. There was more to follow, for the "personal" touch had
yet to be delivered.

    As for myself, you'll find in Lola Montez
    The study how to please my constant wont is!
    Yet I am vain that I'm the first star here
    To shine upon this Thespian hemisphere.
    And only hope that when I say "Adieu!"
    You'll grant the same I wish to you--
    May rich success reward your daily toil,
    Nor men nor measures present peace despoil,
    And may I nightly see your pleasant faces
    With these fair ladies, your attendant Graces!

IV

But, despite this auspicious start, all was not set fair at Ballarat. As had happened in other
places, Lola was to fall foul of a critic who had disparaged her. Furiously indignant, and
horse-whip in hand, she rushed into the editor's office and executed summary vengeance upon him.

     "A full account of this remarkable business," announced the
     opposition journal, "will be given by us to-morrow. Our
     readers may anticipate a perfect treat." They got it, too,
     if one can trust the report of a "few choice observations"
     delivered by Lola to her audience on the second night of her
     engagement:

     "Ladies and Gentlemen: I am very sure that all of you in
     this house are my very good friends; and I much regret that
     I now have a most unpleasant duty to perform. I had imagined
     that, after all the kindness I have experienced from the
     miners in California, I should never have had anything
     painful to say to you. Now, however, I am compelled to do
     so.

     "I speak to the ladies, as members of my own sex, and to the
     gentlemen, as my natural protectors. Well, what I have to
     tell you is that there is a certain gentleman in this town
     called Seekamp. Just take out the E's, and what is left of
     his name becomes Skamp. Listen to my story, and then judge
     between us. This Mr. Seekamp, who is the editor of the
     Ballarat Times, actually told me, in the hearing of
     another lady and two quite respectable gentlemen, that the
     miners here were a set of ----. No, I really cannot sully my
     lips with the shocking word he used--and that I was not to
     believe them.

     "Mr. Seekamp called on me, with a certain proposition, and
     accepted my hospitality. You all know he is just a little
     fond of drinking. Well, while he was at my house the sherry,
     the port, the champagne, and the brandy were never off the
     table. He ate with me, and he drank with me. In fact, he
     drank so freely that it was only my self-respect that
     prevented me having him removed. But I said to myself,
     'After all, he is an editor; perhaps this is his little
     way.'

     "Well, I did as Mr. Seekamp wanted, and as a result, I was a
     ten pound note out of pocket by it. I was green, but I was
     anxious to avoid making enemies among editors. Yet, when his
     paper next appears, I am referred to in it as being
     notorious for my immorality. Notorious, indeed! Why, I defy
     everybody here, or anywhere else, to say that I am, or ever
     was, immoral. It's not likely that, if I wanted to be
     immoral, I should be slaving away and earning my bread by
     hard work. What do you think?

     "Ladies and Gentlemen, I appeal to you. Is it fair or
     generous of this Seekamp person to behave to me like this?
     The truth is, my manager, knowing that he was a
     good-for-nothing fellow, gave my printing orders to another
     editor. In revenge, the angry Seekamp says he will hound me
     from this town. Ladies and Gentlemen, I appeal to you for
     protection."

"And here," adds the report, "the intrepid Lola retired amid deafening applause. Three hearty
cheers were given for Madame and three lusty groans for her cowardly traducer."

On the following night there was more speech-making. This time, Lola complained to the audience
that she had been freshly aspersed by the objectionable Seekamp. "I offered," she said, "though
merely a woman, to meet him with pistols, but the cur who attacks a lady's character runs away
from my challenge. He says he will drive me from the Diggings. Well, I intend to turn the tables,
and to make Seekamp de-camp. I very much regret," she added, "having been compelled to assert
myself at the expense of Mr. Seekamp, but, really it was not my fault. His attacks on my art
were most ungentlemanly. I challenged him to fight a duel, but the poltroon would not accept."

In the best tradition of the Eatanswill Gazette, the Ballarat Star referred to the Ballarat
Times as "our veracious contemporary and doughty opponent," and alluded to the "unblushing
profligacy of its editorial columns." The proprietor of the United States Hotel and the solicitor
for Lola Montez also sailed into the controversy and challenged Mr. Seekamp to "eat his words."
That individual, however, not caring about such a diet, refused to do anything of the sort.

The matter did not end there, and a number of correspondents took up the cudgels on behalf
of Lola Montez.

"Is it possible," wrote one of them to the editor of the Star, "that Mr. Seekamp can, in his
endeavour to blacken the fair fame of a woman, insinuate that he is also guilty of the most
shocking immorality? I blush to think it." There was also a letter in a similar strain from
"John Bull," and another from "An Eton Boy," animadverting upon Mr. Seekamp's grammar.

Feeling herself damaged in reputation, Lola's next step was to instruct her solicitor to bring
an action for libel against Seekamp. The magistrate remitted the case to the superior court
at Geelong. But, as an apology was offered and accepted, nothing more was heard of it.

This, however, was not the end of her troubles at Ballarat, for horse-whips were again to whistle
in the air. But, this time Lola got more than she bargained for. She was using her whip on
one Mr. Crosby, the manager of the theatre there, when that individual's spouse--a strong-minded
and muscular woman--wrested the weapon from her and laid it across her own back.

The account given by an eye-witness is a little different. "At Ballarat," he says, "Lola pitched
into and cross-buttocked a stalwart Amazon who had omitted to show her proper respect."

"Cross-buttocked" would appear to be an expression which, so far, has eluded the dictionary-makers.

In other parts of the Colony, however, Lola's reception more than made up for any little unpleasantnesses
at Ballarat. "Her popularity," says William Kelly, an Australian squatter, "was not limited
to the stage. She was welcomed with rapture on the gold fields, and all the more for the liberal
fashion in which she 'shouted' when returning the hospitality of the diggers. Her pluck, too,
delighted them, for she would descend the deepest shafts with as much nonchalance as if she
were entering a boudoir."

From Sandhurst Lola Montez travelled to Bendigo, where the tour finished. There, says a pressman,
"she lived on terms of the most cordial amity with the entire populace, and without a single
disturbing incident to ruffle the serenity of the intercourse."

V

