THE CELTIC MAGAZINE.

No. II.          DECEMBER 1875.

THE STATE OF THE OSSIANIC CONTROVERSY.

IN controversy about Ossian, the man on the affirmative side has an immeasurable advantage
over all others; and, with an average practical acquaintance with the subject, may exhaust
any antagonist. The contents, the connection, and the details; the origin, the tradition, the
translation; the poetry, the sentiment, the style; the history, the characters, the dramatis
personæ; the aspects of nature represented, the customs and manners of the people; the conflicting
nationalities introduced, the eventful issues, the romantic incidents; the probable scenes,
the subsequent changes; the philosophy and the facts, and multiplied revelations of humanity--all
these, and many more such themes inseparably connected with Ossian, if a man rightly understands
and believes in them, would enable him to maintain his position in actual controversy, with
integrity and ease, for a twelvemonth. The man, on the other hand, who does not believe in
the authenticity of Ossian must forego all these advantages in succession, and will reduce
himself to straits in an hour. He dare not expatiate or admire, or love, or eulogise, or trust,
or credit, or contemplate, or sympathise with anything; or admit a fact, or listen to a word,
or look at an argument, on the peril of immediate discomfiture. He must simply shut the book.
His only stronghold is denial; his sole logic is assertion; his best rhetoric is abuse; his
ultima ratio is to create distrust, and to involve both himself and everybody else in confusion.
Genius, for example, he declares without hesitation to be trickery; poetry to be bombast; pathos,
monotonous moaning; the tenderest human love to be sham; the most interesting natural incidents,
contemptible inventions; the plainest statistical information, a deliberate act of theft; the
sublimest conceptions of human character, a fudge; the details of human history for three hundred
years, a melodramatic, incredible fiction; and what cannot now be found anywhere else recorded,
a dream; accidental coincidence he speaks of as detected dishonesty; imaginary resemblance,
as guilty adaptation; a style suitable to the subject, as plagiarism; occasional inspiration
he calls a lie; translation, a forgery; and the whole, if not a "magnificent mystification,"
then, in Procurator-Fiscal phrase, a "wilful falsehood, fraud, and imposition." But all this,
without proof--and nothing like proof is ever advanced--may be said in an hour, and the argument
would remain as it is. Such, in point of fact, has been the sum total of assault, reiterated
by every new antagonist with increasing boldness for a century, till reasonable readers have
become callous to it, and only ignorant or prejudiced listeners are impressed. To be "hopelessly
convinced" by it, is perhaps the latest phase of incredulity; to be edified or enlightened
by it is impossible.

But, besides the advantage of being able to speak with freedom of an author like Ossian, from
any natural point of view, an almost infinitely higher advantage still is to be obtained by
actually verifying his text; by realising his descriptions, ascertaining his alleged facts,
and localising the scenes of his narrative. Whatever is truly grand in Ossian may thus be identified
with nature, if it has a counterpart there; and what seems only an imaginary outline at first
may be filled up and fixed for ever as among her own still extant properties. A new sense,
coherent and intelligible, may thus be imparted to the most familiar figures; and not an allusion
to earth or sky, to rock or river, will be lost after such a process. Nay, a certain philosophic
significance, amounting to scientific revelation, may be honestly associated with some of his
loftiest figures; and what the translator himself apologises for as extravagant, may be thus
converted into dreamful intuitions of hidden fact and poetic forecasting of future discoveries.
But Mr Arnold does not seem to include in this capacity the intuitions of natural science,
at least not for Ossian; yet nothing can be more certain than that Ossian and his fellow-countrymen
enjoyed them.

That verification to such an extent, however, both of facts and localities, and ideas--philosophic
or imaginative, in the text of Ossian, was possible, has scarcely hitherto been believed by
any one; it has certainly never been attempted. A sort of vagueness in many of his descriptions
ill-understood, and a similarity in poetic figures that might be indiscriminately applied;
and an occasional apparent conflict or confusion of details seem to have deterred almost all
readers from the study we now recommend. But all these difficulties, of verification and interpretation
alike, are only on the surface; and not even there, if it has been looked at attentively. Let
any intelligent reader, with the poems which refer to Scotland in his hand, survey the Clyde,
the Kelvin, and the Carron, and trace the still remaining footsteps of nature and of civilization
through distant centuries on their banks, and he will see that Ossian has been there. Let him
look steadily even at the cloud-drifts from the Atlantic, as they troop or roll along in a
thousand fantastic forms, converging all to a certain inland range, and he will understand
that the author of these poems must have seen and studied them so. Let him proceed then to
Arran, and he will discover there, if he looks and listens, not only scenes and traditions,
and monuments of sepulture, still associated with the names of Oscar and Malvina, Fingal and
Ossian--in literal confirmation of what has been stated in the text concerning them; but the
only reliable account, by survey and tradition also, of the Fingalian expeditions from Morven
to Ireland. Let him then, by direct communication, which is occasionally possible from Arran;
or by any circuit he pleases, disembark in the Bay of Larne "with its bosom of echoing woods,"
as Fingal himself must have done; and there, with Fingal and Temora in hand, let him survey
the entire region between Larne and Belfast. Let him march with his eyes open by the pass of
Glenoe, and try to ascend it on the old track--by the "narrow way at the stream of the battle
of thousands," round the double-headed rock there by moonlight, or in the misty dawn; and before
attempting this, let him look carefully around among the limestone cliffs for any other reasonable
opening; and if he does not begin to suspect, at least, that it was here Cuchullin stood, and
Calmar fell, against the invading Norse, he must be "hopelessly convinced" to the contrary,
indeed. Onwards let him prosecute his journey, looking backwards occasionally to the sea, where
the ships of Fingal should be appearing--onwards among marshy Lenas, open Straths, half cultivated
Heaths--with an occasional monolith among the enclosures, testifying to what has once been
done there; onwards, with his eye now to the ridges on the left--on one of which, below Carneal
or thereabouts, the head-quarters of Fingal must have been before the campaigns began--onwards
until he touches the source of the Six-Mile-Water above Ballynure; and there, looking steadily
westward down the strath where the river winds, let him recall the very words of the text in
his hand--"Nor settled from the storm is Erin's sea of war; they glitter beneath the moon,
and, low-humming, still roll on the field. Alone are the steps of Cathmor, before them on the
heath; he hangs forward with all his arms on Morven's flying host.... They who were terrible
were removed: Lubar winds again in their host":--and then ask himself deliberately if the whole
scene, with the relative changes of position in the contending armies, the retreat of the one
that had been advancing, the pursuit of the other that had been retreating, the recrossing
of the stream by both over some of its hundred links, and the temporary pause of battle in
that valley, with hosts on either side of the river which now flowed through the ranks of one
of them, whilst the other was in retreat up the ridge--could have been more truly described
by poet or geographer than it has been in these few words of Ossian? Onward let him proceed,
if he pleases, by Ballynure and Ballyclare to Lough Neagh; or let him return again across the
valley to the north, in a line at right angles to the road between Larne and Connor. But before
he moves from the spot let him glance round for a moment to the south, in the direction of
Carrickfergus--"where a valley spreads green behind the hill [literally spreads] with its three
blue streams. The sun is there in silence; [that touch is wonderful--no war, as yet, is there]
and the dun mountain roes come down." Let him search there at leisure, if he pleases, and he
will find the stream of the Noisy Vale, where poor Sulmalla saw the vision of Cathmor's ghost,
and "the lake of roes," where Lady Morna died, still Loch Mourne, a little farther east on
the mountain. But if this should be inconvenient, then by a step or two forward to the top
of the ridge on the right he will come in view of the northern branch of the Six-Mile-Water;
and now let him steadily consider what he sees. From east to west before him, lies the Drumadarragh
range; between himself and which lies the valley of the Deer Park, intersected by the river,
whereabouts, in all probability, the assassination of Oscar took place. Beyond the ridge and
through the pass just visible, rises the Glenwherry Water; near the head of which, as has been
fully explained, both in "Ossian and the Clyde" and elsewhere, should be found a cave in some
rocky cliff, with oaks, or the remains of oaks, before it; whilst the river, in its sheltered
course or Cluna, glides below. "Crommal, with woody rocks and misty top, the field of winds,
pours forth to the light blue Lubar's streamy roar. Behind it rolls clear-winding Lavath, in
the still vale of deer. A cave is dark in a rock; above it strong-winged eagles dwell; broad-headed
oaks before it, sound in Cluna's wind. Within, in his locks of youth, is Ferad-Artho, blue-eyed
king, the son of broad-shielded Cairbar, from Ullin of the roes. He listens to the voice of
Condan, as grey he bends in feeble light. He listens, for his foes dwell in the echoing halls
of Temora. He comes at times abroad, in the skirts of mist, to pierce the bounding roes. When
the sun looks on the field, nor by the rock nor stream is he! He shuns the race of Bolga, who
dwell in his father's hall." Let him march then to Ferad-Artho's hiding place, across the intervening
valley--taking leisurely note, as he goes, of every monolith or cairn on his track; and either
up the face of the hill, or through the pass on his right, where the high road now runs, and
so on to the hamlet of Maghgerabane; above which, on the Skerry--a gloomy, low-browed, basaltic
precipice before him--like a dark porch or portico, in the very face of the rock, halfway up,
he will descry the cave in question. He should now cross the Glenwherry at the village, in
its grassy gorge, and draw nearer to the portico on the hillside beyond it, keeping a steady
look-out for the roots of oaks, for they are still to be discovered there, as he ascends the
cliff. Three of them in a row, about twenty feet below the cave, but directly in front of it,
although now overwhelmed with ruins, still send up shoots; and two more, a little farther up
to the west of it, are equally conspicuous. He will find the cave itself half-ruined already,
by the continual fall of basaltic masses from the mountain; and in attempting to scale the
rock at the door of the cave, he should be as circumspect as possible, lest a worst thing than
the breaking of a bone befals him. He need not, however, be afraid of "strong-winged eagles,"
for they are gone; nor need he look for "bounding roes" in the valley, for they are probably
exterminated; but he may still look westward on one of the sweetest and stillest vales in the
bounds of the Island; and when he remembers that he is now within a few miles of Connor, which
is the Temora of Ossian, he will have no difficulty in understanding how Ferad-Artho was brought
for shelter and for safety to the cave just above him; or how easily the boy-king could be
discovered there by his friends in Fingal's camp to the south, who knew exactly where to find
him. Such explorations are but the one-half of what may still be made from the text of Ossian,
in this very region; but these will occupy at least three days of a week in summer, and are
long enough for present detail in the columns of the Celtic. There are other regions however,
far beyond Ireland, not so accessible to ordinary tourists, which may be examined nevertheless,
with equal certainty by geological survey and geographical report; and to these, on some future
occasion, we may take an opportunity of directing the reader's attention.

In the meantime, by way of bringing our present argument to a point, would the reader believe
that Macpherson, by whose text alone hitherto we have been guided, was himself more ignorant
of these very scenes than a school boy; that he never, in fact, saw them, and did not know
where, in Scotland or in Ireland, they were to be found? Yet such is the case. Of the Clyde,
of which he could not help knowing something, he knew nevertheless very little--yet not much
less than some of our modern geologists; but of localities on the Clyde, or between the Forth
and the Clyde, as described in Ossian, he knew nothing. The Kelvin, in like manner, as an Ossianic
river, was utterly unknown to him; he does not even attempt to translate its name. All that
pertains to Arran, and still so distinctly traceable there by the help of his own text in Berrathon--for
which Gaelic no longer exists--he transfers in his ignorance to the wilds of Morven. As for
Ireland, all that he knows, or seems to know, is that Ullin is Ulster; but the very scenes
which are most conspicuous in Ulster he transfers to Leinster--from Antrim, for example, to
Meath; and the rest to some undistinguishable point between Londonderry and Armagh. He brings
Sulmalla and her forefathers from Wales instead of Wigtonshire, into Wicklow instead of Ardglass;
and he lands both Swaran and Cuchullin and Fingal in Lough Foyle apparently, instead of in
the Bay of Larne or Belfast? In such circumstances, of what use is it for critics any longer
to go on squabbling over Gaelic editions, collecting and collating mediæval Gaelic ballads,
and asserting with hopeless fatuity that he was the author of these poems, or that he stole
them from the Irish? The Irish themselves are as ignorant of the subject as he is; and yet
in spite of all this ignorance on his part and theirs, the text of his translation has received
on every page of it the unequivocal countersign of Nature, which can neither be forged nor
forfeited. Taking all which into account, does it not now begin to be plain to unprejudiced
readers that the whole of this Ossianic controversy has been hitherto on wrong ground; and
that if the truth of it is to be arrived at, at all, it must be removed to other ground--from
questionable MSS. and mediæval ballads, to the region of facts and the domain of reality? We
do not assert that the sort of facts now adduced by us, and elsewhere systematised and elaborated,
are the only facts, or the only kind of facts to be considered in such a controversy; but we
do assert that their importance is supreme, and that they have never hitherto been admitted
in the controversy. It is to facts however, and to facts like these, that the attention of
Ossianic students ought now to be directed; and at every step, if we are not greatly deceived,
they will multiply and reiterate their testimony in so decided a fashion, that it will be impossible
for any critic, or for any collector in the world, to disregard or dispose of them. All farther
serious controversy on the subject, in short, is destined to be of this character--common-sense
and practical; and the sooner we prepare ourselves, as honest enquirers, to engage in it after
this fashion and in this spirit, the better.

                                                    P. HATELY WADDELL.

THE HIGHLAND CEILIDH.

BY ALASTAIR OG.

WE are in a west coast village or township, cut off from all communication with the outer world,
without Steamers, Railways, or even Roads. We grow our own corn, and produce our beef, our
mutton, our butter, our cheese, and our wool. We do our own carding, our spinning, and our
weaving. We marry and are taken in marriage by, and among, our own kith and kin. In short,
we are almost entirely independent of the more civilized and more favoured south. The few articles
we do not produce--tobacco and tea,--our local merchant, the only one in a district about forty
square miles in extent, carries on his back, once a month or so, from the Capital of the Highlands.
We occasionally indulge in a little whisky at Christmas and the New Year, at our weddings and
our balls. We make it too, and we make it well. The Salmon Fishery Acts are, as yet, not strictly
enforced, and we can occasionally shoot--sometimes even in our gardens--and carry home, without
fear of serious molestation, the monarch of the forest. We are not overworked. We live plainly
but well, on fresh fish, potatoes and herring, porridge and milk, beef and mutton, eggs, butter,
and cheese. Modern pickles and spices are as unknown as they are unnecessary. True, our houses
are built not according to the most modern principles of architecture. They are, in most cases,
built of undressed stone and moss (coinneach), thatched with turf or divots, generally covered
over with straw or ferns held on by a covering of old herring nets, straw, and rope, or siaman.

The houses are usually divided into three apartments--one door in the byre end leading to the
whole. Immediately we enter we find ourselves among the cattle. A stone wall, or sometimes
a partition of clay and straw separates the byre from the kitchen. Another partition, usually
of a more elegant description, separates the latter from the Culaist or sleeping apartment.
In the centre of the kitchen a pavement of three or four feet in diameter is laid, slightly
raised towards the middle, on which is placed the peat fire. The smoke, by a kind of instinct
peculiar to peat smoke, finds its way to a hole in the roof called the falas, and makes its
escape. The fire in the centre of the room was almost a necessity of the good old Ceilidh days.
When the people congregated in the evening, the circle could be extended to the full capacity
of the room, and occasionally it became necessary to have a circle within a circle. A few extra
peats on the fire would, at any time, by the additional heat produced, cause an extension of
the circle, and at the same time send its warming influences to the utmost recesses of the
apartment. The circle became extended by merely pushing back the seats, and this arrangement
became absolutely necessary in the houses which were most celebrated as the great Ceilidh centres
of the district.

The Ceilidh rendezvous is the house in which all the Folk-lore of the country, all the old
sgeulachdan or stories, the ancient poetry known to the bards or Seanachaidhean, and old riddles
and proverbs are recited from night to night by old and young. All who took an interest in
such questions congregated in the evening in these centres of song and story. They were also
great centres of local industry. Net-making was the staple occupation, at which the younger
members of the circle had to take a spell in turn. Five or six nets were attached in different
corners of the apartment to a chair, a bedstead or post set up for the purpose, and an equal
number of young gossipers nimbly plied their fingers at the rate of a pound of yarn a day.
Thus, a large number of nets were turned out during the winter months, the proceeds of which,
when the nets were not made for the members of the household, went to pay for tobacco and other
luxuries for the older and most necessitous members of the circle.

With these preliminary remarks we shall now introduce the readers of the Celtic Magazine to
the most famous Ceilidh house in the district, and ask them to follow us from month to month
while we introduce the principal members of the celebrated circle. We shall make each re-appear
in these pages to repeat their old stories, recite old poems, never published elsewhere, propound
riddles, and in this way we shall be able to lay before our readers a vast amount of the legends,
clan feuds, and traditional family history, connected with the Highlands, a large amount of
unpublished poetry, duans, riddles, proverbs, and Highland customs. It will be necessary to
give a great part in the original Gaelic, especially the poetry; but translations of the legends,
riddles, and proverbs, will be given when convenient.

The house is such as we have above described. The good-man is bordering upon five-score. He
is a bard of no mean order, often delighting his circle of admiring friends with his own compositions,
as well as with those of Ossian and other ancient bards. He holds a responsible office in the
church, is ground-officer for the laird as well as family bard. He possesses the only Gaelic
New Testament in the district. He lives in the old house with three sons whose ages range from
75 to 68, all full of Highland song and story, especially the youngest two--John and Donald.
When in the district, drovers from Lochaber, Badenoch, and all parts of the Highlands find
their way to this noted Ceilidh house. Bards, itinerants of all sorts, travelling tinkers,
pipers, fiddlers, and mendicants, who loved to hear or tell a good story, recite an old poem
or compose a modern one--all come and are well received among the regular visitors in the famous
establishment. As we proceed, each of the strangers and local celebrities will recite their
own tales, not only those of their own districts but also those picked up in their wanderings
throughout the various parts of the country.

It was a condition never deviated from, that every one in the house took some part in the evening's
performance, with a story, a poem, a riddle, or a proverb. This rule was not only wholesome,
but one which became almost a necessity to keep the company select, and the house from becoming
overcrowded. A large oak chair was placed in a particular spot--"where the sun rose"--the occupant
of which had to commence the evening's entertainment when the company assembled, the consequence
being that this seat, although one of the best in the house, was usually the last occupied;
and in some cases, when the house was not overcrowded, it was never taken up at all. In the
latter case the one who sat next to it on the left, had to commence the evening's proceedings.

It was no uncommon thing to see one of the company obliged to coin something for the occasion
when otherwise unprepared. On one occasion the bard's grandson happened to find himself in
the oak chair, and was called upon to start the night's entertainment. Being in his own house
he was not quite prepared for the unanimous and imperative demand made upon him to carry out
the usual rule, or leave the room. After some hesitation, and a little private humming in an
undertone, he commenced, however, a rhythmical description of his grandfather's house, which
is so faithful that, we think, we cannot do better than give it here, although chronologically
it should be given further on. The picture was complete, and brought down the plaudits of the
house upon the "young bard" as he was henceforth designated.

    TIGH MO SHEANAIR.

    An cuala sibh riamh mu'n tigh aig I----r
    'S ann air tha'n deanamh tha ciallach ceart
    'S iomadh bliadhua o'n chaidh a dheanamh
    Ach 's mor as fhiach e ged tha e sean
    Se duine ciallach chuir ceanna-crioch air
    'S gur mor am pianadh a fhuair a phears
    Le clachan mora ga'n cuir an ordugh,
    'S Sament da choinntich ga'n cumail ceart.

    Tha dorus mor air ma choinneamh 'n-otraich
    'Us cloidhean oir air ga chumail glaist
    Tha uinneag chinn air ma choinneamh 'n teintean
    'Us screen side oirre 'dh-fhodar glas;
    Tha'n ceann a bhan deth o bheul an fhalais
    A deanamh baithach air son a chruidh
    'S gur cubhraidh am faladh a thig gu laidir
    O leid, na batha 'sa ghamhuinn duibh.

    Tha catha 's culaist ga dheanamh dubailt
    'S gur mor an urnais tha anns an tigh
    Tha seidhir-ghairdean da dharach laidir
    'Us siaman bàn air ga chumail ceart,
    Tha lota lair ann, da ghrèbhail cathair
    'S cha chaith 's cha chnamh e gu brath n' am feasd
    Tha carpad mor air da luath na moine
    'S upstairs ceo ann le cion na vent.

    Tha sparan suithe o thaobh gu taobh ann
    'Us ceangail luibte gan cumail ceart
    Tha tuthain chaltuinn o cheann gu ceann deth
    'Us maide slabhraidh 's gur mor a neart,
    Tha lathais laidir o bheul an fhail air,
    Gu ruig am falas sgur mor am fad,
    Tha ropan siamain 'us pailteas lion air
    'S mar eil e dionach cha 'n eil mi ceart.

On one occasion, on a dark and stormy winter's night, the lightning flashing through the heavens,
the thunder clap loud and long, the wind blowing furiously, and heavy dark ominous clouds gathering
in the north-west, the circle had already gathered, and almost every seat was occupied. It
was the evening of the day of one of the local cattle markets. Three men came in, two of them
well-known drovers or cattle buyers who had visited the house on previous occasions, the other
a gentleman who had, some time previously, arrived and taken up his quarters in the district.
No one knew who he was, where he came from, or what his name was. There were all sorts of rumours
floating amongst the inhabitants regarding him; that he had committed some crime, and escaped
from justice; that he was a gentleman of high estate, who had fallen in love with a lowly maiden
and run away to spite his family for objecting to the alliance; and various other surmises.
He was discovered to be a gentleman and a scholar, and particularly frank and free in his conversation
with the people about everything except his own history and antecedents, and was a walking
encyclopædia of all kinds of legendary lore connected with the southern parts of the country.
His appearance caused quite a flutter among the assembled rustics. He was, however, heartily
welcomed by the old bard and members of the circle, and was offered a seat a little to the
left of the oak arm chair. It was soon found that he was a perfect master of Gaelic as well
as English. It was also found on further acquaintance, during many subsequent visits, that
he never told a story or legend without a preliminary introduction of his own, told in such
a manner as to add immensely to the interest of the tale.

"Coinnichidh na daoine ri cheile ach cha choinnich na cnuic"--(Men will meet each other, but
hills will never meet), said Ruairidh Mor a Chnuic, who, on this occasion, found himself in
the Oak Chair. "Very true," said the next man to the left. "Cuiridh an teanga snaim nach t-fhuasgail
an fhiacaill"--(The tongue will tie a knot which the tooth cannot loosen). "Let some one give
us a story." "Cha robh sgialach nach robh briagach"--(He who is a good story-teller is also
a good retailer of lies), says Callum a Ghlinne, or Malcolm of the Glen, an excellent story-teller
when he liked. "I'll give you a riddle though, and perhaps we may get a sgeulachd from the
stranger, the gentleman, on my left," "An rud nach eil 's nach robh, 's nach bi' sin do laimh
'us chi thu e"--(What is not, never was, and never will be, stretch forth your hand and you'll
see it). This was soon answered by the younger members--"Bar na meur uileadh an aon fhad"--(The
points of the fingers the same length). It now comes the turn of the romantic stranger, who
shall in these pages be known as "Norman of the Yacht." He was in no way put out, consented;
and immediately began the Legend, of which, and his introductory remarks, the following is
a translation:--

THE SPELL OF CADBOLL.

In olden days the east coast of Scotland was studded with fortresses, which, like a crescent
chain of sentinels, watched carefully for the protection of their owners and their dependents.
The ruins remain and raise their hoary heads over valley and stream, river bank and sea shore,
along which nobles, and knights, and followers "boden in effeyre-weir" went gallantly to their
fates; and where in the Highlands many a weary drove followed from the foray, in which they
had been driven far from Lowland pastures or distant glens, with whose inhabitants a feud existed.
Could the bearded warriors, who once thronged these halls awake, they would witness many a
wonderful change since the half-forgotten days when they lived and loved, revelled, and fought,
conquered, or sustained defeat. Where the bearer of the Crann-tara or fiery cross once rushed
along on his hasty errand, the lightning of heaven now flashes by telegraphic wires to the
farthest corners of the land. Through the craggie passes, and along the level plains, marked
centuries ago with scarce a bridle path, the mighty steam horse now thunders over its iron
road; and where seaward once swam the skin curach, or the crazy fleets of diminutive war galleys,
and tiny merchant vessels with their fantastic prows and sterns, and carved mast-heads, the
huge hull of the steam propelled ship now breasts the waves that dash against the rugged headlands,
or floats like a miniature volcano, with its attendant clouds of smoke obscuring the horizon.

The Parish of Fearn in Easter Ross contains several antiquities of very distant date. One of
these shattered relics, Castle Cadboll, deserves notice on account of a singular tradition
regarding it, once implicitly credited by the people--namely, that although inhabited for ages
no person ever died within its walls. Its magical quality did not, however, prevent its dwellers
from the suffering of disease, or the still more grievous evils attending on debility and old
age. Hence many of the denizens of the castle became weary of life, particularly the Lady May,
who lived there centuries ago, and who being long ailing, and longing for death, requested
to be carried out of the building to die.

Her importunity at length prevailed; and according to the tradition, no sooner did she leave
it than she expired.

Castle Cadboll is situated on the sea shore, looking over the broad ocean towards Norway. From
that country, in the early ages of Scottish history, came many a powerful Jarl, or daring Vikingr,
to the coasts, which, in comparison with their own land, seemed fertile and wealthy. There
is a tradition of a Highland clan having sprung from one of those adventurers, who with his
brother agreed that whoever should first touch the land would possess it by right.

The foremost was the ultimate ancestor of the tribe; his boat was almost on shore, when the
other, by a vigorous stroke, shot a-head of him; but ere he could disembark, the disappointed
competitor, with an exclamation of rage, cut off his left hand with his hatchet, and flinging
the bloody trophy on the rocks, became, by thus "first touching Scottish ground," the owner
of the country and founder of the clan. The perfect accuracy of this story cannot now be vouched
for; but it is an undeniable fact that the clan MacLeod have successfully traced their origin
to a Norwegian source; and there is a probability that the claim is correct from the manifestly
Norwegian names borne by the founders of the Clan Tormod and Torquil, hence the Siol Tormod--the
race of Tormod--the MacLeods of Harris; and the Siol Torquil, the race of Torquil--MacLeods
of Lewis--of whom came the MacLeods of Assynt, one of whom betrayed Montrose in 1650, and from
whom the estates passed away in the end of the seventeenth century to the Mackenzies.

The MacLeods of Cadboll are cadets of the house of Assynt. But to what branch the Lady May
of the legend belonged it is difficult to decide, so many changes having occurred among Highland
proprietors.

The cliffs of this part of Ross-shire are wild and precipitous, sinking with a sheer descent
of two hundred feet to the ocean. The scenery is more rugged than beautiful--little verdure
and less foliage. Trees are stunted by the bitter eastern blast, and the soil is poor. Alders
are, however, plentiful, and from them the parish has derived its name of Fearn. There is a
number of caves in the cliffs along the shore towards Tarbet, where the promontory is bold,
and crowned with a lighthouse, whose flickering rays are now the only substitute for the wonderful
gem which was said of yore to sparkle on the brow of one of these eastern cliffs,--a bountiful
provision of nature for the succour of the wave-tossed mariner.

During the reign of one of the early Stuart kings, which is of little moment, Roderick MacLeod
ruled with a high and lordly hand within the feudal stronghold of Cadboll. He was a stout and
stern knight, whose life had been spent amidst the turmoil of national warfare and clan strife.

Many a battle had he fought, and many a wound received since first he buckled on his father's
sword for deadly combat. Amid the conflicting interests which actuated each neighbouring clan--disagreement
on any one of which rendered an immediate appeal to arms, the readiest mode of solving the
difficulty--it is not to be wondered at that Cadboll, as a matter of prudence, endeavoured
to attach to himself, by every means in his power, those who were most likely to be serviceable
and true. MacLeod had married late in life, and his wife dying soon after, while on a visit
to her mother, left behind her an only daughter, who was dear as the apple of his eye to the
old warrior, but, at the same time, he had no idea of any one connected with him having any
freedom of will or exercise of opinion--save what he allowed--nor did he believe women's hearts
were less elastic than his own, which he could bend to any needful expedient. About the period
our story commences the Lady May was nearly eighteen years of age, a beautiful and gentle girl,
whose hand was sought by many a young chief of the neighbouring clans; but all unsuccessfully,
for the truth was she already loved, and was beloved, in secret, by young Hugh Munro from the
side of Ben Wyvis.

The favoured of the daughter was not the choice of her father, simply because he was desirous
to secure the aid of the Macraes, a tribe occupying Glenshiel, remarkable for great size and
courage, and known in history as "the wild Macraes." The chief--Macrae of Inverinate, readily
fell in with the views of MacLeod, and as the time fixed for his marriage with the lovely Lady
May drew nigh, gratified triumph over his rival Munro, and hate intense as a being of such
fierce passions could feel, glowed like a gleaming light in his fierce grey eyes.

"Once more," he said, "I will to the mountains to find him before the bridal. There shall be
no chance of a leman crossing my married life, and none to divide the love Inverinate shall
possess entire. By my father's soul, but the boy shall rue the hour he dared to cross my designs.
Yes, rue it, for I swear to bring him bound to witness my marriage, and then hang him like
a skulking wild cat on Inverinate green."

It was nightfall as he spoke thus. Little he knew that at the same moment Hugh Munro was sitting
beneath the dark shadows of the alder trees, which grew under the window of the little chamber
where May MacLeod was weeping bitterly over the sad fate from which she could see no way of
escape. As she sat thus the soft cry of the cushat fell upon her ears. Intently she listened
for a few moments, and when it was repeated stepped to the window and opened it cautiously,
leaning forth upon the sill. Again the sound stole from among the foliage, and May peered down
into the gloom, but nothing met her gaze save the shadows of the waving branches upon the tower
wall.

"It is his signal," she whispered to herself as the sound was repeated once more. "Ah me! I
fear he will get himself into danger on account of these visits, and yet I cannot--I cannot
bid him stay away."

She muffled herself in a dark plaid, moved towards the door, opened it cautiously, and listening
with dread, timidly ventured down to meet her lover.

"I must and will beg him to-night to stay away in future" continued she, as she tripped cautiously
down the narrow winding stair--"and yet to stay away? Ah me, it is to leave me to my misery;
but it must be done, unkind as it may be, otherwise he will assuredly be captured and slain,
for I fear Macrae suspects our meetings are not confined to the day and my father's presence."

After stealing through many dark passages, corridors, and staircases, in out-of-the-way nooks,
she emerged into the open air, through a neglected postern shadowed by a large alder, opposite
the spot from which the sound proceeded.

Again she gazed into the shadow, and there leaning against a tree growing on the edge of the
crag she saw a tall slender figure. Well she knew the outlines of that form, and fondly her
heart throbbed at the sound of the voice which now addressed her.

"Dearest," said the young Munro in a low tone, "I thought thou wouldst never come. I have been
standing here like a statue against the trunk of this tree for the last half-hour watching
for one blink of light from thy casement. But it seems thou preferrest darkness. Ah May, dear
May, cease to indulge in gloomy forebodings."

"Would that I could, Hugh," she answered sadly. "What thoughts but gloomy ones can fill my
mind when I am ever thinking of the danger you incur by coming here so often, and thinking
too of the woeful fate to which we are both destined."

"Think no more of it" said her lover in a cheerful tone. "We have hope yet."

"Alas, there is no hope. Even this day my father hath fixed the time for--to me--this dreaded
wedding? And thou Hugh, let this be our last meeting--Mar tha mi! our last in the world. Wert
thou caught by Inverinate, he so hates thee, he would have thy life by the foulest means."

"Fear not for that dearest. And this bridal! Listen May, before that happen the eagle will
swoop down and bear thee away to his free mountains, amid their sunny glens and bosky woods,
to love thee darling as no other mortal, and certainly none of the Clan-'ic-Rathmhearlaich
has heart to do."

