Mr. BUNG, who had been watching Debate from Distinguished Strangers' Gallery, hugely delighted.
"S'elp me," he said, "that'll stop their little game for this Parliament, at least. What do
they mean hinterfering with honest tradesmen? If you go opening your bloomin' mooseums and
picter galleries on Sunday afternoons, what's to become of ME?"

Business done.--Mr. BUNG's; and very effectively, too.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FLAT, STALE, AND UNPROFITABLE."

  HAMPDEN, farewell! Ere this you may have found
  The World you swore was flat is really round.
  But many a man, with brains beneath his hat.
  Swears that the World is round, and finds it flat.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OXFORD AND CAMBRIDGE BOAT-RACE.

(MARCH 21. OXFORD WON BY HALF A LENGTH.)

  Great ZEUS! was ever such a race since 1829,
  When WORDSWORTH, SELWYN, MERIVALE began the mighty line,
  First of the stalwart heroes who matched their straining thews,
  And on great Thames's tide have fought the battle of the Blues?
  Who writes of pampered softness? Confusion on his pen:
  Still is there pluck in England, and still her sons are Men.
  And still the lads go gaily forth in snow, or wind, or rain,
  With hearts elate to row the race, and spurt, and spurt again.
  A health to you, brave AMPTHILL; the cheering echoes far;
  For FLEICHER and the NICKALLS' lads--nobile fratrum par.
  A shout goes up for WILKINSON, the stalwart and the strong,
  For REGGIE ROWE, and dauntless KENT, who kept the stroke so long.
  For POOLE, the tidy bowman, and HEYWOOD-LONSDALE too;
  Thrice thirty cheers for all of them, that gallant Oxford Crew.
  Nor,--though the years speed onward, and others wield the oar,
  Though others race and win or lose where we have raced before;
  Though others, while we watch the sport, should play as we have played,
  And scorn us prosy greybeards--shall ELIN's glory fade?
  NOBLE, and LORD, and FRANCKLYN, they each shall have their cheer,
  And BRADDON, small, but quick of eye, who craftily did steer,
  And ROWLATT, and FOGG-ELLIOTT, and LANDALE, of the Hall,
  And FISON, sturdy Corpus man--we cheer and praise them all.
  Punch loves all sturdy men and true, by whom great deeds are done,
  And toasts and cheers with all his might the Crews of '91.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGAL MAXIMS.

(Suggestions for alteration and adaptation to Modern Manners and Customs, after the Jackson
decision by the Court of Appeal.)

Common Law.--"The tradition of ages shall prevail," save when it runs counter to the opinions
of a leader-writer of a daily paper.

Equity.--(1). "No right shall be without a remedy," save when it is sentimentally suggested
that somebody's right may be somebody else's wrong.

(2.) "Equity follows the law," at such a distance that it never comes up with it.

(3.) "Equity is equality," save when a man's wife is literally his better half.

(4.) "Where there is equal equity the law must prevail," in any view it pleases to take at
the instance of the Lord Chancellor for the time being.

(5.) "Where the equities are equal the law prevails," in any course it likes to pursue.

(6.) "Equity looks upon that as done which is agreed to be done," especially when, after obtaining
legal relief, the suitor ultimately finds himself sold.

Contracts.--(1.) "All contracts are construed according to the intentions of the parties,"
save where one of them subsequently changes his mind.

(2.) "The construction should be liberal" enough to suit the fancy of the Judge who enforces it.

(3.) "It should be favourable" to a long and angry correspondence in all the principal newspapers.

(4) "The contract should in general be construed according to the law of the country where
made," but certainly not in particular.

