The zodiacal light is a peculiar brightness, pyramidal or wedge-like in form, seen at certain
periods of the year in the eastern or western sky, before sunrise and after sunset. Its direction
is in the line of the zodiac, whence its name--not perpendicular to the horizon, but at a varying
angle, being in the spring from 60 to 70 degrees. The base of the wedge, which has a breadth
generally of from 10 to 12 degrees, is below, and the sides rise in a line, curving outwards,
to the apex, but so vague and diffuse as to be frequently indefinable. In our latitudes, it
is best seen at or just after the equinoxes; before sunrise in autumn, and after sunset in
spring; and becomes invisible as twilight increases, or if the moon shines; the light even
of Venus and Jupiter is sufficient to render its discovery difficult. It is brightest at the
base, and grows fainter the further it stretches from the horizon, vanishing entirely at the
point. Unpractised observers would be apt to overlook it altogether, and those accustomed to
watch the heavens are at times obliged to fix one eye on a dark space of sky, while they search
for the light with the other, and discover it only by the contrast. A stratum of black cloud
resting on the horizon often affords a means of detection, as the light can then be seen shooting
from it with comparative distinctness. The soft, clear atmosphere which usually precedes or
follows rain, is very favourable to a view of the light.

The luminous wedge varies in length with the progress of the seasons: sometimes but little
more than its point is visible; at others, it is seen extending over a space of 120 degrees.
Astronomically speaking, the axis of the zodiacal light is said to lie in the plane of the
solar equator, with an angle of more than 7 degrees to the ecliptic, which it consequently
intersects, the points of intersection becoming its nodes, and these nodes are the parts through
which the earth passes in March and September. The light travels forward along the zodiacal
signs from Gemini to Cancer and Leo from August to November, keeping pace with the sun. It
grows dim towards the end of November, and fades more and more until January; but while this
decrease has been going on in the east, and in the morning, the light has presented itself
with increasing brightness in the west, and in the evening, and pursues its course until the
end of February at about the same rate of motion. In March, it is slow, and travels through
not more than one sign, and fades in April, and is lost in May, to reappear again at the end
of summer, and perform the same route.

Lengthened twilight is not favourable to the appearance of the zodiacal light; it can, therefore,
be observed successfully in the temperate latitudes only by patient and long-continued watching.
But in tropical regions, the deep azure of the sky, and the brief twilight, give it a distinctness
and luminosity never witnessed elsewhere. In Egypt, we are told it is clearly 'visible every
night, except when the light of the moon is too great, from January to June;' and in India
its appearance is described as that of 'a pyramid of faint aurora-borealis like light' usually
preceding the dawn. Humboldt tells us, that he has seen it shine with greater brightness than
the Milky Way, from different parts of the coast of South America, and from places on the Andes
more than 13,000 feet above the sea-level.

'Those who have dwelt long,' he writes, 'in the zone of palms, must retain a pleasing remembrance
of the mild radiance of this phenomenon, which, rising pyramidally, illumines a portion of
the unvarying length of the tropical nights.' And once, during a voyage from Lima to Mexico,
he saw it in greater magnificence than ever before. 'Long narrow clouds, scattered over the
lovely azure of the sky, appeared low down in the horizon, as if in front of a golden curtain,
while bright varied tints played from time to time on the higher clouds: it seemed a second
sunset. Towards that side of the heavens, the light diffused appeared almost to equal that
of the moon in her first quarter.'

The zodiacal light can hardly fail of having been observed by astronomers in the past ages
of the world; but the earliest known mention of it occurs in the Britannia Baconica, published
by Childrey in 1661. It is so observed any clear night, but it is best illæ nocte. There is
no such way to be observed at any other time of the year. But what the cause of it in nature
should be, I cannot yet imagine, but leave it to further inquiry.' The further inquiry followed
soon afterwards, for Cassini, the eminent French astronomer, having carefully observed the
phenomenon from 1683 to 1688, communicated the results to the Académie des Sciences. Some of
his views and determinations were well founded; and from them we gather that the zodiacal light
was nearly or quite the same in his day as at present. Others also devoted considerable attention
to it, and noticed the variations in brightness in different years, which subsequent observations
have verified. Since then, it has been made more or less a subject of investigation by modern
astronomers, and has been observed in many parts of the world; the first observations in the
southern hemisphere being those made by Professor Smyth at the Cape of Good Hope, from 1843
to 1845. In that latitude, the zodiacal light is best seen in spring evenings, at an angle
of 30 degrees, visible long after sunset; its opposite peak is discernible at daybreak, but
has scarcely come into view before the rising sun overpowers it. In autumn, the reverse takes
place; the best appearance is in the morning.

To understand what is meant by the 'opposite peak,' we are to regard the zodiacal light, of
which we see only one end in our latitudes, as a body extending all round the sun in the same
form, presenting at a distance the appearance of one of those flat elongated oval nebulæ seen
in the heavens. Its direction is at right angles to that of the sun's rotation, a straight
line drawn from either pole of the great luminary divides it in the centre. From its outline
resembling that of a lens in section, it is frequently described as a 'cosmical body of lenticular
form.'

From this account of what the zodiacal light appears to be, we proceed to consider what it
is. Some inquirers--arguing from the 'nebular theory,' which assumes the formation of the several
planets, one after another, from nebulous matter--have supposed the zodiacal light to be a
remnant of that matter yet unconcentrated. In this view, it may be a nebula, brightest in the
centre, as is the case with most, and fainter towards the margin. The light of the stars, of
even the fifth or sixth magnitudes, can be seen through it: the same has been remarked of comets;
and it is known also that the tails of comets undergo frequent flashings or pulsations, so
that the two phenomena may be analogous in character. It is necessary, however, to distinguish
the fluctuations from such effects as may be produced by movements in the lower strata of the
atmosphere.

Mairan, who wrote in 1731, was of opinion that the zodiacal light consisted of particles thrown
off from the sun by its rapid rotation, or a species of atmosphere peculiar to the central
orb. Others have supposed the luminosity to be composed of 'revolving planetary particles,'
shining by a direct or reflected light. But, according to Professor Olmsted, of Yale College,
Massachusetts, it is something which has a motion of its own around the sun, notwithstanding
that the general steadiness of its movements had warranted the notion that it was in some way
attached to the body of the sun itself. Olmsted's conclusions are drawn from a diligent observation
of the light during a period of six years, and are on this account, as well as from his scientific
reputation, entitled to respect. He states the light to be, in constitution, colour, and density,
similar to that of the tail of a comet, the portion nearest the sun being brightest, and both
admitting of stars being seen through them. We may, therefore, infer it to be a nebulous ring
surrounding the sun, in the same way that the magnificent rings of Saturn surround that planet.
Of such nebulæ as this there are from 2000 to 3000 visible in the regions of space, compared
with which the dimension of ours is insignificant: at the same distance, and sought for with
the same instruments, it would be invisible.

In one point, Professor Olmsted's views are particularly interesting, as, out of one mysterious
phenomenon, he endeavours to explain another, and inquires: 'Whether or not the zodiacal light
is the origin of the meteoric showers of November and August, and especially those of November?'
Many readers know that for some years past great numbers of falling-stars, or showers of meteors,
have been observed periodically in November: the fall seen in the United States in 1834--when,
as is estimated, more than 240,000 stars fell as thick as snow-flakes, in the space of nine
hours--being the most remarkable hitherto known. The explanation is, that the zodiacal light
is a nebulous body revolving round the sun, and arrives at its aphelion on the 13th November
in that part of the earth's orbit which the earth then reaches, and, coming into contact with
our atmosphere, portions of the nebulous matter are detached, and, taking fire as they pass
through, appear to us as shooting-stars. This explanation of the phenomenon in question is
one not hastily conceived; the reasoning on which it is founded is altogether satisfactory,
as well with regard to the movement of the nebulous matter, as to that of the earth.

Professor Olmsted, in a communication addressed to the 'American Association for the Advancement
of Science,' sums up his views as follows:

'1. The zodiacal light, as we have found, in our inquiry into its nature and constitution,
is a nebulous body.

'2. It has a revolution round the sun.

'3. It reaches beyond and lies over the earth's orbit at the time of the November meteors,
and makes but a small angle with the ecliptic.

'4. Like the nebulous body, its periodic time is commensurable with that of the earth, so as
to perform a certain whole number of revolutions while the earth performs one, and thus to
complete the cycle in one year, at the end of which the zodiacal light and the earth return
to the same relative position in space. This necessarily follows from the fact, that at the
same season of the year it occupies the same position one year with another, and the same now
as when Cassini made his observations nearly 170 years ago.

'5. In the meteoric showers of November, the meteors are actually seen to come from the extreme
portions of the zodiacal light, or rather a little beyond the visible portions.'

There is much that is suggestive in this summary, and, as we said at the commencement, the
subject is one of a nature to stimulate inquiry and research, and to lead to further explanations
of cosmical phenomena. M. Mathieson's observations, published in the Comptes Rendus of the
Académie des Sciences for 1843, shew, that when tested with the thermo-multiplier, the zodiacal
light was found to radiate heat as well as light--a fact which, if further verified, will support
the evidence in favour of an independent luminous ring.

WHO WROTE SHAKSPEARE?

