"You go to him," says PARNELL, "and demand certain pledges on Home Rule scheme. If he does
not consent, he will be in a hole; threatened with loss of Irish Vote. You will be in a dilemma,
as you cannot then side with him against me, the real friend of Ireland; whilst I shall be
confirmed in my position as the only possible Leader of the Party. If, on the contrary, this
unrivalled sophist is drawn into anything like a declaration that will satisfy you in the face
of the Irish People, he will be hopelessly embarrassed with his English friends; I shall have
paid off an old score, and can afford to retire from the Leadership, certain that in a few
months the Irish People will clamour for the return of the man who showed that, if only he
could serve them, he was ready to sacrifice his personal position and advantages. Don't, Gentlemen,
let us, at a crisis like this, descend to topics of mere personality. In spite of what has
passed at this table, I should like to shield my honourable friends, Mr. TIMOTHY HEALY, Mr.
SEXTON, and that beau idéal of an Irish Member, Mr. JUSTIN McCARTHY, from references, of a
kind peculiarly painful to them, to certain proceedings in a court of law with respect to which
I will, before I sit down, say this, that, if all the facts were known, they would be held
absolutely free from imputation of irregularity."

General cheering greeted this speech. Members shook hands all round, and nominated Committee
to go off and make things hot for Mr. G. Business done.--In British House Prince ARTHUR expounded
Scheme for Relief of Irish Distress.

Friday.--A dark shadow falls on House to-day. Mrs. PEEL died this morning, and our SPEAKER
sits by a lonely hearth, OLD MORALITY, in his very best style, speaking with the simple language
of a kind heart, voices the prevalent feeling. Mr. G., always at his best on these occasions,
adds some words, though, as he finely says, any expression of sympathy is but inadequate medicine
for so severe a hurt. Members reverently uncover whilst these brief speeches are made. That
is a movement shown only when a Royal Message is read; and here is mention of a Message from
the greatest and final King. Mrs. PEEL, though the wife of the First Commoner in the land,
was not une grande dame. She was a kindly, homely lady, of unaffected manner, with keen sympathies
for all that was bright and good. Every Member feels that something is lost to the House of
Commons now that she lies still in her chamber at Speaker's Court.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DRAMA ON CRUTCHES.--A Mr. GREIN has suggested, according to some Friday notes in the D.T.,
a scheme for subsidising a theatre and founding a Dramatic School. The latter, apparently,
is not to aid the healthy but the decrepit drama, as it is intended "to afford succour to old
or disabled actors and actresses." Why then call it a "Dramatic School?" Better style it, a
"Dramatic-Second-Infancy-School."

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH IN THE FIELD.--If things go on as they have been going lately, the statisticians who
compile the "Public Health" averages will have to include, as one important item in their "Death
Rates," the ravages of that annual epidemic popularly known as--Football!

       *       *       *       *       *

"JUSTICE FOR IRELAND!"--The contest on the Chairmanship of the Irish Parliamentary Party may
be summed up:--PARNELL--Just out, McCARTHY Just in.