One day an Indian came into my house and threw down a fine haunch of venison upon the table.
As we were poorly off for food, I was very much pleased, and said to him, "What shall I give
you for this meat?"

"Nothing," he replied; "it belongs to you."

"You must be mistaken," I said.  "I never had any dealings with you."

"But I had with you," he answered.  "And so this meat is yours."

Being unacquainted with the man, I asked him to tell me who he was, and how he made it out
that this meat belonged to me.

Said he, "Did you not go to Nelson River with dogs and Indians about two moons ago?"

"Yes," I replied, "I did."

"Well, I was out hunting deer, but I did not have much luck.  The snow was deep, the deer were
very shy, and I had no success.  One day, when very hungry, for I had only taken a little dried
rabbit meat with me from my wigwam, I came across your trail, and I found where your Indians
had made a cache, that is, a big bundle of provisions and other things had been tied up in
a blanket, and then a small tree had been bent down by your men, and the bundle fastened on
the top, and let spring up again to keep it from the wolves.  I saw your bundle hanging there,
and as I was very hungry I thought, `Now if the kind-hearted Missionary only knew the poor
Indian hunter was here looking at his bundle of food, he would say, "Help yourself;"' and that
was what I did.  I bent down the tree, and found the large piece of pemmican.  I cut off a
piece big enough to make me a good dinner, then I tied up the bundle again, and let it swing
up as you had it.  And now I have brought you this venison in place of what I took."

I was pleased with his honesty, and had in the incident another example of the Indian quickness
to read much where the white man sees nothing.

The reason why we had made the cache which the Indian had discovered was, that we had taken
a large quantity of pemmican for our food, as the people we wore going to see were poor, and
we did not wish to be a burden to them; but we had been caught in a terrible storm, and as
the snow was very deep, making the travelling heavy, we were obliged to lighten our loads as
soon as possible.  So we left a portion, as the Indian has described, on the way.

When we returned to the cache, and my men pulled it down and opened the bundle, one of them
quickly cried out, "Somebody has been at our cache."

"Nonsense," I replied; "nobody would disturb it.  And then there were no tracks around when
we reached here to-night."

Looking at the largest piece of pemmican, the Indians said, "Missionary, somebody has taken
down our bundle and cut off a piece just here.  That there are no tracks, is because there
have been so many snow-storms lately.  All tracks made a few days ago are covered up."

As I knew they were so much quicker along these lines of education than white men, I did not
argue any more with them.  The coming of the old hunter with the venison was the proof of the
cleverness of my men, and also a very honourable act on his part.  I kept the old man to dinner,
and among other things I asked him how he knew it was the Missionary's party that passed that
way.  He quickly replied, "By your tracks in the snow.  Indians' toes turn in when they walk,
white men's toes turn out."

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

AN INDIAN LOVEFEAST--MANY WITNESSES--SWEET SONGS OF ZION--THE LORD'S SUPPER--MEMOIR OF WILLIAM
MEMOTAS, THE DEVOTED CHRISTIAN.

Our Lovefeasts and sacramental services were always well attended, if it were within the range
of possibility for the Indians to be present.  To come in on Saturday from their distant hunting
grounds sixty miles away, that they might enjoy the services of the Lord's house on His own
day, was no unusual thing.  Then on Monday morning we have seen them again strap on their snowshoes,
and with glad hearts and renewed zeal start off to return to their lonely hunting camps in
the distant forests.

They are able to express themselves clearly, and often quite eloquently. When their hearts
are full of the love of God, and they are rejoicing in the blessed assurance of the Divine
favour, they are willing to speak about it.

  "What they have felt and seen
  With confidence they tell."

Here are some of their testimonies.  Those are the living words of men and women who were once
the slaves of a debasing paganism.  But on their hearts the blessed Spirit shone, and to His
pleading voice they responded, and now, happy in the consciousness that they are the children
of God, they love to talk about what wonderful things have been done for them and wrought in
them.  Timothy Bear said:

"It is such a joy to me, that I can tell you of great things done for me.  Great is the joy
I have in my heart to-day.  I rest in the consciousness that He is my own reconciled Heavenly
Father, and so I feel it good to be here in the Lord's house, and with those that love Him.
The good Spirit gives me to see how good and kind my heavenly Father is; and so I can say that
the greatest anxiety of my heart and life is to serve God better and better as I grow older.
To do this I have found out that I must have Divine help.  But He is my Helper for everything,
and so I need not fail.  So I am encouraged that I shall love God more and more, and, with
that, I want to love His cause and people, and those who have not yet become His people, that
they may soon do so, more and more.  For the conversion of the unsaved, let us, who feel that
Jesus saves us, pray more earnestly than ever, and may God help us to live our religion, that
the heathen around us may see in our lives what a wonderful thing it is."

Timothy's burning words produced a deep impression, and some one began to sing:

  "Ayume-oo-we-nah,"

  "The praying Spirit breathe."

Half a dozen were on their feet when the verses were sung, but Thomas Walker spoke first.  He said:

"When I first heard the Gospel long winters ago, as brought to us by Mr Evans, I was soon convinced
that I was a sinner and needed forgiveness. I found I could not of myself get rid of my sins,
so I believed in Christ, and found that He had power to forgive.  I was very wretched before
I was forgiven.  I was afraid I should be lost for ever.  I mourned and wept before God on
account of my sins.  In the woods alone, I cried in my troubles, and was in deep distress.
But I heard of the love and power, and willingness to save, of this Jesus of the great Book,
and so I exercised a living faith in Him; and as I believed, God's voice was heard, saying,
`My son, I have forgiven your sins; I have blotted them out.  Go in peace.'  I am sure I was
not mistaken; I felt filled with peace and joy.  I felt that I, Thomas Walker, was cleansed
from my many sins, and clothed with the garments of salvation.  That was a blessed day when
the Spirit of God shone into my heart and drove out the darkness.  Since then, my way in Him
has been like the sunlight on the waters.  The more waves, the more sunshine.  I am happy in
His love to-day.  I am confident that, because He aids me, I am growing in grace.

"I rejoice at being spared to come to another celebration of the Lord's Supper; and in view
of partaking of the emblems of the dying, loving Jesus, I feel that my soul is feeding on Christ,
the true Bread of Life."

Earnest yet suppressed words of praise and adoration quietly dropped from many lips as Thomas
ended.  Then dear old Henry Budd succeeded in getting a hearing.  Henry was Mr Evans' marvellous
dog-driver over twenty-five years before the date of this blessed lovefeast.  He had had many
wonderful adventures and some narrow escapes.  Once, when running ahead on a treacherous river,
where in places the current was very rapid, and consequently the ice was thin, he broke through
into the current underneath.  He quickly caught hold of the edge of the ice, but it was so
weak it would not hold him up.  His only comrade could not get very near him as the ice was
so bad, and so had to run about a mile for a rope.  When he returned, so intense was the cold
that both of Henry's hands, with which he had been holding on to the ice, were frozen.  He
was utterly unable to close them on the rope.  George shouted to him to open his mouth.  The
rope was then thrown, lasso-like, so skilfully, that the poor half-frozen man seized it in
his teeth, and was thus dragged out, and rushed off to the nearest wigwam.  He was literally
saved by the "skin of his teeth."

Thus Henry Budd had, like many others, much for which to praise God.  He spoke on this occasion
as follows:

"I rejoice in God my Saviour, Who has done such wonderful things for me. I feel very happy.
I am His child.  He is my reconciled Father.  How can I help being happy?

"When I first began to get my poor blind eyes opened, and there came to me a desire to seek
God, and to obtain salvation for my soul, I was troubled on account of my sins.  My many transgressions
rose up before me like a cloud.  I was ignorant, and so my mind was full of doubts and fears.
Yet with all my doubts there was the anxious desire to be saved. But the victory came at last.
I was enabled to hear enough about the Almighty Friend, and so, as I had confidence in His
power and love, and believed in Him, I was at last enabled to rejoice in the knowledge of sins
forgiven through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.  From those sad doubts and fears I am now
happily delivered.  I feel I love God, and that God loves me.  I am growing in grace, and in
the knowledge of God my Saviour.  My hopes are brightening all the time.  I am getting old,
but not unhappy, for I am cheered with the blessed assurance of one day meeting, in my Father's
house in heaven, with many who are safely there, and many more who, like me, will soon enter
in.  That this may be a blessed certainty, I desire to be faithful unto the end, that no man
take my crown."

When Henry sat down, before another one could be heard, the large congregation were singing:--

  "Pe teh-na-mah-me cha-te yak
  Ke ehe ne-ka-mo-yak," etc.

  "O for a thousand tongues to sing
  My great Redeemer's praise."

The next to get the floor was one of the sweetest, purest Christians it was ever my lot to
become acquainted with in any land.  His name was William Memotas.  He was a very happy Christian.
As he was a Local Preacher and a Class Leader, I was much in his society, and I can say, as
many others have said, that William, since the day of his conversion, was never heard to utter
an unkind word about any one, or do anything that could give the enemies of the Lord Jesus
an opportunity to scoff at his profession of loving the Lord with all his heart.  He was never
a very strong man physically while we knew him, and so was unable to go on the long tripping
or hunting expeditions with him more vigorous comrades.  He suffered much from inward pain,
but was ever bright and hopeful.  When he stood up to add his testimony, the sick, pallid face
caused a wave of sympathy to pass over the audience, but his cheery words quickly lifted the
cloud, and we seemed to look through the open door into the celestial city, into which he was
so soon to enter.  His obituary, which I wrote at the time of his death, is added at the close
of this chapter.  He said:--

"For many years I have now been walking in this way, and proving this great salvation.  It
is a blessed way, and it is getting more delightful all the time.  Every day on it is a day's
walk nearer Jesus.  It is not like the trails in our country, sometimes rocks, and then more
often muskegs and quaking bogs; but it is the solid rock all the time, and on it we may always
be sure of our footing, and it leads us up to Him Who is the Rock of Ages.  I am not now a
strong man, as you know I once was. This poor weak body is like the old wigwam.  It is breaking
up.  As each storm tears fresh rents in the old wigwam, so each attack of disease seems to
tear me, and bring me nearer the time when what is immortal of me shall slip away from the
worn body into the everlasting brightness of that land where the happy people never say, `I
am sick.' I am very glad and happy in the service of this Jesus, and will serve Him as long
as He lends me health.  But I do want to go home.  I cannot do much more here.  Our Missionary,
Mr Young, said to me, `William, don't talk so much about leaving us.  How can we spare you?'
I thank him for his love and friendship, but there is another Friend I am getting such a longing
in my heart to see, and that is Jesus, my Saviour, my Redeemer.  I am praying for patience,
but by-and-by I shall be with Him, with him for evermore.  There I shall have no pain, and
I will praise my Jesus for evermore.  So, while waiting, I ask God to be with me here, and
to let me serve Him in some way every day."

With suppressed emotion, for many eyes were full of tears, the people sang--

  "Tapwa meyoo ootaskewuk,
  Ispemik ayahchik," etc.

  "There is a land of pure delight,
  Where saints immortal reign."

William was a sweet singer, and joined heartily with the rest in singing several verses of
that grand old hymn.  We had a presentiment that the end was not far off, but we little thought,
as we looked into his radiant face, and heard his clear scriptural testimony, and his longings
for rest and heaven, that this was to be the last Lovefeast in which our dear brother was to
be with us.  Ere another similar service was held, William Memotas had gone sweeping through
the gates, washed in the blood of the Lamb.

James Cochrane, a Class Leader, said,--

"I have great reason to bless God for the privileges and mercies I have had from him.  I am
so glad to be with you to-day in his house.  I try to arrange all my huntings and journeys
so as to be present at all of these love-feasts and sacraments.  Since I decided, many years
ago, to give up paganism and become a Christian, I have never missed one of these meetings,
though sometimes I have had to take several days and travel hundreds of miles to get here.
I only had to travel sixty miles on my snow-shoes to be here to-day.  It has paid me well to
come.  I rejoice that God has enabled me to be faithful all these years since I started in
His service.  When I first began, I had a great many doubts and fears.  The way seemed very
long ahead of me.  I felt so weak and so prone to sin.  It seemed impossible that such a weak,
unworthy creature as I could stand true and faithful; but trusting in God, and constantly endeavouring
to exercise a living faith in Christ, I have been kept to this day, and I can say I realise
a daily growth in grace.  I ask God to give me His Holy Spirit to help me to follow Christ's
example and to keep all of God's commandments.  May I, too, prove faithful."

Mary Cook, a very old woman, who has had to endure persecution for Christ's sake, spoke next.
She said:

"I am very glad to be here once more.  I have many pagan relatives who have no feeling of friendship
towards me, because I am a follower of Jesus.  But He is my Friend, so it is all right.  I
have been very sick, and thought that God was going to take me home to heaven.  That thought
made me very happy in my sickness.  My poor little room often seemed light with the presence
of my Lord.  I love to dwell with God's people. It is my chief joy.  I refused to go and live
with my relatives in the woods, even though I should be better off, because I love the house
of God, and because I so love to worship with God's people."

Mary Oig said:

"Very happy do I feel in my heart to-day.  My heart is filled with his love.  I knew I love
Him and his people; and His service is to me a great delight.  Once, like many others, I was
in the great darkness, wandering in sin; but God sought me by His Holy Spirit, and convinced
me of my lost condition, and shewed me Himself as my only Hope, and enabled me to rejoice in
his pardoning mercy through faith in the Atonement. May God keep me faithful, that with you
I may join around the Throne above."

Thomas Mamanowatum, generally known as "Big Tom," on account of his almost gigantic size, was
the next to speak.  He is one of the best of men.  I have used him to help me a good deal,
and have ever found him one of the worthiest and truest assistants.  His people all love and
trust him.  He is perhaps the most influential Indian in the village. Tom said:

"I, too, desire to express my gratitude to God for His great blessings and mercies to me. 
I am like David, who said, `Come, all ye who fear the Lord, and I will tell you what He hath
done for my soul.'  He has taken me out of the pit of sin, and set me on the rock.  So I rejoice,
for I have felt and tasted of His love.  When I think of what he has done for me, and then
think of what I have been, I feel that I am not worthy even to stand up in such a place as
this.  But He is worthy, and so I must praise Him.  I have a comfortable assurance that He,
my good Father, is contented with me.  But it is only because the grace of God is sufficient
to keep me.  I am growing in grace, and I desire more than ever to glorify God in all I think,
or speak, or do.  I have been helping our Missionary at Beren's River in the good work among
the people there.  I often felt happy while endeavouring to point my heathen brethren to Jesus
Christ, Who takes away the sins of the world.  My first consecration was of myself, when converted
to Christ.  My second was of my family to Him.  My third is of my class.  I am often very happy
while trying to lead them on in the way to heaven.  To-day I renew my vows of consecration.
I offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving, for He is my God and my portion for ever.  As He is
the Source of Love and Light and Safety, I want to be continually drawing nearer to Him."

Very appropriate was the hymn which was next sung,--

  "Ke-se-wog-ne-man-toom
  Ke-nah-te-tin," etcetera,

  "Nearer, my God, to Thee."

After three verses of this beautiful hymn were sung, we had a large number of short testimonies.
Some of the people beautifully expressed themselves by quoting passages from their Indian Bibles.
For example, one said: "The joy of the Lord is my portion."  Another: "The Lord is my Shepherd;
I shall not want."  Another: "Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear
what we shall be: but we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall
see him as He is."

Thus delightfully passed away two hours.  Perhaps fifty or sixty gave their testimonies, or
quoted passages of Scripture.  The speaking was up to the average of a similar gathering among
white people, as these examples we have given would indicate.  They were faithfully translated
by two of our best interpreters, and then compared.  And yet many of the beautiful Indian images
are lost in the translation into English.

The best of all has also to be left out.  The Divine power, the holy emotions, the shining
faces, the atmosphere of heaven, cannot be put down on paper.  Many of my readers know what
I mean as thus I write, for they have been in those hallowed gatherings where "they that feared
the Lord spake often one to another."

Then followed the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper.  To the Christian Indians this service is,
as it ever should be, the most solemn and impressive in the Church.  Our custom was to hold
four Communion services during the year.  In addition, we sometimes gave a dying devoted member
this sacrament, if so desired.  Here there were a few other very important occasions, when
we celebrated in this way the dying of the Lord Jesus.  As, for example, when several scores
of our people were going off on a dangerous trip in a plague-infected district with but very
poor prospects of all returning home again.

WILLIAM MEMOTAS.

William Memotas was converted from the darkness of paganism to the light of the Gospel soon
after the introduction of the glad tidings of salvation among the Cree Indians by that most
useful and godly man, the Reverend James Evans.  William's conversion was so clear and positive
that he never had any doubts about it.  His progress in the Divine life was marked and intelligent,
and soon he became a useful and acceptable worker in the Church.  He was a Class Leader and
Local Preacher of great power and acceptability.

He was pre-eminently a happy Christian.  His face seemed full of sunshine.  There was a genial
sweetness about him that caused his very presence to act as a charm.  His coming into our Mission
home was like the sunshine, in which even our little ones basked with great delight. He was
an every-day Christian.  Although I was often in his company, and was thrown in contact with
him on some occasions calculated to severely test him, yet I never heard from him an improper
word, or heard of his having in any way gone contrary to his Christian profession during the
thirty years that he had professed to be a follower of the Lord Jesus.

His greatest aim in life seemed to be to get to heaven; and next to that he strove to induce
others to follow in the same course.

When some of the Indians were getting excited about their lands, and the treaties which were
soon to be made with the Government, William, in writing to a friend, said: "I care for none
of these things; they will all come right.  My only desire is to love Jesus more and more,
so as to see Him by-and-by."

He was a useful Christian, possessing a good knowledge of the roots and herbs of his native
forests, and also having had some instruction given him in reference to some of the simpler
medicines of the whites, he was often styled our "village doctor."  Although seldom remunerated
for his services, he was always ready to listen to the calls of the afflicted, and, with Heaven's
blessing, was instrumental in accomplishing some marvellous cures.  He believed in using a
good deal of prayer with his medicines.  His skill in dressing and curing gun-shot wounds could
not be excelled.

Yet, while doing all he could to cure others, his own health was very poor for several years.
He suffered frequently from violent headaches that caused intense pain.  Yet he was never heard
to murmur or complain, but would say to us, when we tried to sympathise with him, "Never mind,
by-and-by I shall get home, and when I see Jesus I shall have no more pain."  About nine days
before his departure he caught a severe cold that settled upon his lungs, which seemed to have
been diseased for a long time.  He had from the beginning a presentiment that his sickness
was "unto death," and never did a weary toiler welcome his bed of rest with greater delight
than did William the grave.  The prospect of getting to heaven seemed so fully to absorb his
thoughts that he appeared dead to everything earthly.  In life he had been a most loving and
affectionate husband and father, but now, with a strong belief in God's promises of protection
and care over the widow and fatherless, he resigned his family into the Lord's hands, and then
seemed almost to banish them from his thoughts.

Being very poor on account of his long-continued ill health, which had incapacitated him for
work, he had, when his severe illness began, nothing to eat but fish.  We cheerfully supplied
him with what things our limited means would allow, to alleviate his sorrows and poverty. One
day, when my beloved Brother Semmens and I had visited him, we had prayer and a blessed talk
with him.  As we were leaving him, after giving him some tangible evidences of our love, Brother
Semmens said, "Now, Brother William, can we do anything else for you?  Do you want anything
more?"  The poor sick man turned his radiant face towards us and said, "O no, I want nothing
now, but more of Christ."

He often conversed with us about his glorious prospects and the joy and happiness he felt as
the pearly gates of the Golden City seemed to be opening before him.  Here are some of his
dying words whispered either to my beloved colleague or to myself.  Would that we could portray
the scene, or describe the happy, shining face of the dying man, lying there on a bed of blankets
and rabbit skins in his little dwelling!

He said, "While my body is getting weaker, my faith is getting stronger, and I am very happy
in Jesus' love.  Very glad am I that I responded to Mr Evans' invitations, and gave my heart
to Him Who has saved me and kept me so happy in His love.  I am so glad I was permitted to
do some little work for Jesus.  He used to help me when I tried to talk about His love and
recommend Him to others.  I used to get very happy in my own soul when thus working for Him.
I am happier now than ever before. I am resting in His love."

Thus would the happy man talk on as long as his strength permitted.  It was ever a blessing
to visit him.  It wonderfully encouraged and strengthened us in our work.  One day, as we came
from one of these blessed visits, Brother Semmens burst out in almost ecstatic delight,--

  "O may I triumph so
  When all my warfare's past!"

When we administered to him the emblems of the broken body and spilt blood of the Redeemer,
he was much affected, and exclaimed, "My precious Saviour!  I shall soon see Him.  `That will
be joy for evermore.'"

Once, when conversing with him, I happened to say, "I hope you will not leave us.  We want
you to remain with us.  We need you to help us to preach.  We need you in the Sunday School
and in the Prayer Meetings. Your sixty class members are full of sorrow at your sickness. 
They think they cannot spare you.  Do not be in a hurry to leave us, William. We want your
presence, your example, your prayers."

He listened patiently while I talked, and then he looked up at me so chidingly, like a weary,
home-sick child, and exclaimed, in a voice that showed that earth had lost all its charms,
"Why do you wish to detain me?  You know I want to go home."

Shortly after, his heart's desire was his in actual possession. Triumphantly he went home.
While we felt that our Mission was much the loser by his departure, we knew it was better for
him, and an accession to heaven's glorious company of one who was worthy to mingle with the
white-robed throng around the throne of God.

There is nothing that more roots and grounds us in this blessed Gospel, and more stimulates
us to labour on, even amidst hardships and sufferings, than the consistent lives and triumphant
deaths of our Indian converts.

Ignorant as many of them are of the non-essentials of our religion, yet possessing by the Spirit's
influence a vivid knowledge of their state by nature, and of the Saviour's love for them, they
cling to Him with a faith so strong and abiding, that the blessed assurance of His favour abides
with them as a conscious reality through life; and when the end draws near, sustained by His
presence, even the Valley of the Shadow of Death is entered with delight.

The Missions among the Indians of North America have not been failures. The thousands converted
from different tribes, and now before the throne of God, and the many true and steadfast ones
following after, tell us that although many of the toilers among them, as they went with the
seed, literally went forth weeping, yet the harvest has been an abundant one, and has more
than compensated for the tears and toils of the sewers.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

VARIED DUTIES--CHRISTIANITY MUST PRECEDE CIVILISATION--ILLUSTRATIONS-- EXPERIMENTAL FARMING--PLOUGHING
WITH DOGS--ABUNDANCE OF FISH--VISITS FROM FAR-OFF INDIANS--SOME COME TO DISTURB--MANY SINCERE
INQUIRERS AFTER THE TRUTH--"WHERE IS THE MISSIONARY?"--BEREN'S RIVER MISSION BEGUN-- TIMOTHY
BEAR--PERILS ON THE ICE.

Very diversified were our duties among these Indians.  Not only were there those that in all
places are associated with ministerial or pastoral work, but there were also many others, peculiar
to this kind of missionary toil.  Following closely on the acceptance of the spiritual blessings
of the Gospel came the desire for temporal progress and development.  Christianity must ever
precede a real and genuine civilisation.  To reverse this order of proceedings has always resulted
in humiliating failure among the North American Indians.

Sir Francis Bond Head, one of the early Governors of Canada, took a great interest in the Indians.
He zealously endeavoured to improve them, and honestly worked for their advancement.  He gathered
together a large number of them at one of their settlements, and held a great council with
them.  Oxen were killed, and flour and tea and tobacco were provided in large quantities. 
The Indians feasted and smoked, and listened attentively to this great man who represented
the Queen, and who, having also supplied them with food for the great feast, was worthy of
all attention.

The Governor told them that the great object of his coming to see them, and thus feasting them,
was to show his kindness to them, and interest in their welfare.  Then, with much emphasis
he told them how the game was disappearing, and the fish also would soon not be so plentiful,
and, unless they settled down and cultivated the soil, they would suffer from hunger, and perhaps
starve to death.  He got them to promise that they would begin this new way of life.  As they
were feeling very comfortable while feasting on his bounties, they were in the humour of promising
everything he desired.  Very much delighted at their docility, he said he would send them axes
to clear more of their land, and oxen and ploughs to prepare it for seed; and when all was
ready he would send them seed grain.  Great were their rejoicings at these words, and with
stately ceremony the council broke up.

In a few days along came the ploughs, oxen, and axes.  It was in the pleasant springtime, but
instead of going to work and ploughing up what land there was cleared in their village, and
beginning with their axes to get more ready, they held a council among themselves.  These were
their conclusions: "These axes are bright and shine like glass.  If we use them to cut down
trees, they will lose their fine appearance.  Let us keep them as ornaments.  These oxen now
are fat and good.  If we fasten them up to these heavy ploughs, and make them drag them through
the ground, they will soon get poor and not fit for food.  Let us make a great feast."  So
they killed the oxen, and invited all of the surrounding Indians to join them, and as long
as a piece of meat was left the pots were kept boiling.

Thus ended, just as many other efforts of the kind have ended, this effort to civilise the
Indians before Christianising them.

We found that almost in proportion to the genuineness of the Indian's acceptance of the Gospel
was his desire to improve his temporal circumstances.  Of course there were some places where
the Indians could not cultivate the land.  We were four hundred miles north of the fertile
prairies of the great western part of the Dominion of Canada, where perhaps a hundred millions
of people will yet find happy times.  From these wondrously fertile regions my Nelson River
Indians were at least six hundred miles north.  As hunters and fishermen these men, and those
at Oxford Mission, and indeed nearly all in those high latitudes, must live.  But where there
was land to cultivate the Indians had their gardens and little fields.

I carried out with me four potatoes.  I did not get them in the ground until the 6th of August.
Yet in the short season left I succeeded in raising a few little ones.  These I carefully packed
in cotton wool and kept safe from the frost.  The next year I got from them a pailful.  The
yield the third year was six bushels, and the fourth year one hundred and twenty-five bushels;
and before I left the Indians were raising thousands of bushels from those four potatoes. 
They had had some before, but there had been some neglect, and they had run out.

One summer I carried out, in a little open boat from Red River, a good Scotch iron beam plough.
The next winter, when I came in to the District Meeting, I bought a bag of wheat containing
two bushels and a half; and I got also thirty-two iron harrow teeth.  I dragged these things,
with many others, including quite an assortment of garden seeds, on my dog-trains, all the
way to Norway House.  I harnessed eight dogs to my plough, and ploughed up my little fields;
and, after making a harrow, I harrowed in my wheat with the dogs.  The first year I had thirty
bushels of beautiful wheat.  This I cut with a sickle, and then thrashed it with a flail. 
Mrs Young sewed several sheets together, and one day, when there was a steady, gentle breeze
blowing, we winnowed the chaff from the wheat in the wind.  There were no mills within hundreds
of miles of us; so we merely cracked the wheat in a hand coffee-mill, and used some of it for
porridge, and gave the rest to the Indians, who made use of it in their soups.

Thus we laboured with them and for them, and were more and more encouraged, as the years rolled
on, at seeing how resolved they were to improve their temporal circumstances, which at the
best were not to be envied.

The principal article of food was fish.  The nets were in the water from the time the ice disappeared
in May until it returned in October; and often were holes cut in the ice, and nets placed under
it, for this staple article of food.

The great fall fisheries were times of activity and anxiety, as the winter's supply of food
depended very much upon the numbers caught.  So steady and severe is the frost at Norway House,
and at all the Missions north of it, that the fish caught in October and the early part of
November, keep frozen solid until April.  The principal fish is the white fish, although many
other varieties abound.

Each Indian family endeavoured to secure from three to five thousand fish, each fall, for the
winter's supply.  For my own family use, and more especially for my numerous dogs, which were
required for my long winter trips to the out Mission appointments, I used to endeavour to secure
not less than ten thousand fish.  It is fortunate that those lakes and rivers so abound in
splendid varieties of fish.  If it were not so, the Indians could not exist.  But, providentially,--

  "The teeming sea supplies
  The food the niggard soil denies."

Deer of several varieties abound, and also other animals, the flesh of which furnishes nutritious
food.  But all supplies of food thus obtained are insignificant in comparison with the fish,
which the Indians are able to obtain except in the severest weather.

As with the natives, so it was with the Missionaries; the principal article of food upon their
tables was fish.  During the first Riel Rebellion, when all communication with the interior
was cut off, and our supplies could not as usual be sent out to us from Red River, my good
wife and I lived on fish twenty-one times a week, for nearly six months. Of course there were
times when we had on the table, in addition to the fish, a cooked rabbit, or it may be a piece
of venison or bear's meat. However, the great "stand-by," as they say out in that land, was
the fish.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Every summer hundreds of Indians from other places visited us.  Some came in their small canoes,
and others with the Brigades, which in those days travelled vast distances with their loads
of rich furs, which were sent down to York Factory on the Hudson Bay, to be shipped thence
to England.  Sometimes they remained several weeks between the trading post and the Mission.
Very frequent were the conversations we had with these wandering red men about the Great Spirit
and the Great Book.

Some, full of mischief, and at times unfortunately full of rum, used to come to annoy and disturb
us.  One summer a band of Athabasca Indians so attacked our Mission House that for three days
and nights we were as in a state of siege.  Unfortunately for us our own loyal able-bodied
Indian men were all away as trip men, and the few at the Mission village were powerless to
help.  Our lives were in jeopardy, and they came very near burning down the premises.

Shortly after these Athabasca Indians had left us I saw a large boatload of men coming across
the lake towards our village.  Imagining them to be some of these same disturbers, I hastily
rallied all the old men I could, and went down to the shore, to keep them, if possible, from
landing.  Very agreeable indeed was my surprise to find that they were a band of earnest seekers
after the Great Light, who had come a long distance to see and talk with me.  Gladly did I
lead them to the Mission House, and until midnight I endeavoured to preach to them Jesus. 
They came a distance of over three hundred miles; but in that far-off district had met in their
wanderings some of our Christian Indians from Norway House, who, always carrying their Bibles
with them, had, by reading to them and praying with them, under the good Spirit's influence,
implanted in their hearts longing desires after the great salvation.  They were literally hungering
and thirsting after salvation. Before they left for their homes, they were all baptized.  Their
importunate request to me on leaving was the same as that of many others:

"Do come and visit us in our own land, and tell us and our families more of these blessed truths."

From God's Lake, which is sixty miles from Oxford Lake, a deputation of eleven Indians came
to see me.  They had travelled the whole distance of two hundred and sixty miles in order that
they might hear the Gospel, and get from me a supply of Bibles, Hymn-books, and Catechisms.
One of them had been baptized and taught years ago by the Reverend H. Brooking.  His life and
teachings had made the others eager for this blessed way, and so he brought these hungry sheep
in the wilderness that long distance that they might have the truth explained to them more
perfectly, and be baptised.  As it had been with the others who came from a different direction,
so it was with these.  Their earnest, oft- repeated entreaty was, "Come and visit us and ours
in our far-away homes."

A few weeks after, another boatload of men called to have a talk with me.  They seated themselves
on the grass in front of the Mission House, and at first acted as though they expected me to
begin the conversation. I found out very soon that they were Saulteaux, and had come from Beren's
River, about a hundred and fifty miles away.  After a few words as to their health and families
had passed between us, an old man, who seemed to be the spokesman of the party, said, "Well,
Ayumeaookemou" ("praying master," the Missionary's name), "do you remember your words of three
summers ago?"

"What were my words of three summers ago?"  I asked.

