This political, geographical, and economic dualism became still greater when in 1219 the Serbs
cast their lot with orthodoxy. The Croats, like the Slovenes, adopted Roman Catholicism, the
Latin alphabet, and the culture of Rome. The Serbs accepted Greek Orthodoxy, the Cyrillic alphabet,
and the culture of Constantinople.

The Slovenes became a part of the Austrian possessions of the Habsburgs; the Croats fell under
the dominion of the Hungarian crown and the republic of Venice; and the Serbs succumbed to
the Turks by the middle of the fifteenth century. The loss of political independence brought
with it ultimately the loss of the native nobility, the sole guardians of the constitutional
and historical rights of the nations down into the nineteenth century in central Europe. In
addition, many towns were Germanized and the middle class disappeared. The Jugo-Slavs, like
the Czecho-Slovaks, appeared in modern times as a nation which had lost its native nobility
and had been reduced to a disarmed, untutored, and enserfed peasantry. In the absence of these
leaders, the nation turned to its clergy who in order to retain their hold on the peasantry
must needs ever remain national. But here again the misfortune which awaited the Jugo-Slavs
was that historically three religions had taken deep root, the Catholic among the Slovenes
and Croats, and the Mohammedan and Orthodox among the Serbs. We may therefore conclude the
first half of the historical evolution of the Jugo-Slavs with the observation that political,
economic, social, and geographical divisions led to their downfall as a nation and that if
they ever desired to become one, each one of these chasms would have to be bridged. A solution
for each of these problems--the most difficult which ever faced a nation--would have to be
found; meanwhile the policy of the four masters, the German, Venetian, Magyar, and Turk, would
always be "divide and rule," in other words, to perpetuate the divergencies.

II

The history of the evolution of the Jugo-Slavs from the sixteenth to the twentieth century
has been an effort to find the means of melting down these differences until finally one--nationalism--accomplished
the purpose. Unity came first in the imagination and the mind, next in literature and speech,
and finally in political action. The four hundred years beginning with the fifteenth and ending
with the eighteenth century will be remembered by the Jugo-Slavs as the age of humiliation.
Only Slavicized Ragusa and indomitable Montenegro kept alive the imagination of the nation
which was brought back to life by the half-religious, half-national Slovene poets of the sixteenth
century, by the Ragusan epic poet [Gundulic], by the incessant demands of successive diets
of the ever-weakening Croatia in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and by the progressive
and zealous Serbs of Hungary, who ever since the fifteenth century in increasing numbers made
their home there, refugees from the oppression of the Turk, but who ever longed to push out
from the frontier and rebuild Serbia anew. [Krizanic], a Croat Catholic Dalmatian priest, a
firm believer in Jugo-Slav and Slavic unity in general, appealed to the rising Russian empire
to help save dying Slavdom.

While the Turkish and the Venetian empires decayed, the Austrian and the Russian gained courage.
By the end of the seventeenth century the house of Habsburg had won back all except the Banat
and in the eighteenth century aspired to divide the Balkan peninsula in halves with the Russians.
Along with this future foreign interference in the affairs of the Balkans came the Germanizing
and centralizing "reforms" of Maria Theresa and Joseph II, whose result was to cripple still
further the few constitutional and historical rights which remained to the Jugo-Slavs. But
these "reforms" had nevertheless salutary effects upon the nation of peasants. The enlightened
despots, spurred on by the loss of Silesia--which was at the same time a great loss in revenue
as well as prestige--sought to make good the loss by the economic betterment and education
of the peasantry. How else could an agrarian state increase its revenue and supply able-bodied
men for the numerous armies which the overarmaments of Frederick II had brought upon central
Europe? [FN: Emphasis on this fundamental fact of Habsburg history in the eighteenth century
cannot be too strong. The writer of this paper hopes soon to present archival proof of the
far-reaching results of the seizure of Silesia. The documents are to be found in the archives
of the Hofkammer and Ministerium des Innern in Vienna.] Centralization and Germanization really
helped to awaken the Slavs. Enlightened despotism gave them the weapons of political struggle--education
and economic resources.

Of the Jugo-Slavs, the Serbs of Hungary were the first to achieve national and cultural consciousness.
In the absence of a native nobility, but with unusual economic opportunities at their command,
they developed a wealthy middle class--a rare thing among Slavs before the middle of the nineteenth
century. This class came into contact with nationalized western Europe and found that the bulwark
against national oppression was education for the masses. The nation must be educated and must
be economically sound in order to undertake the political struggle against the Germans, the
Magyars, and the Turks. That was the background of Dositej Obradovi[c]'s literary labors as
he raised spoken Serbian ultimately to the literary language of the Jugo-Slavs and of Karad[z]i[c]'s
efforts which resulted in that wonderful collection of Serbian national poems, and which clinched
for all time the literary supremacy of the [S]to dialect. Serbian Hungary was the starting
place for Kara George's revolution which brought partial freedom in 1804 and autonomy in 1830
and thus planted the germ of the modern Greater Serbia. Napoleon's Illyria, created in 1809,
joined for the first time Slovenes and Croats in one political unit, and the excellent administration
and the schools left an undying memory of what might be if the Habsburgs cared. Vodnik, the
Slovene poet, sang of Illyria and her creator, but it was the meteoric Croat, Ljudevit Gaj,
in the thirties, who so eloquently idealized it as he poured heated rhetoric into the camp
of the Magyars, who after the Diet of 1825 began their unfortunate policy of Magyarization.
Illyria, though short-lived, became the germ of the Greater Croatia idea, which, with Greater
Serbia, existed as the two, not necessarily hostile, solutions of the Jugo-Slav problem down
to the Congress of Berlin. It was as yet a friendly rivalry with the possible formation of
two separate units. The occupation of Bosnia in 1878 led to actual friction between them. On
the other hand, the annexation of the same province in 1908 had just the opposite effect, for
from that time the ultimate ideal was no longer Greater Croatia or Greater Serbia in any selfish
sense, but Jugo-slavia, because, to use a platitude, Bosnia had scrambled the eggs. Evidence
of the fairly amicable relations between Slovenes, Croats, and Serbs at the time of Gaj is
not lacking. It was Gaj who reformed Croatian orthography on the basis of the Serbian. Bleiweis
and Vraz endeavored to do the same in Slovene.

The revolution of 1848 demonstrated still further the friendly relations of these potential
rivals as national unifiers. For the first time, the Croats and Serbs publicly fraternized
and showed that the seemingly insurmountable barrier of religious difference tended to disappear
in the struggle for national independence. In this sense the events of 1848--when the hand
of the foreign master was for the while taken away--have given confident hope to those who
believe that Jugo-Slav differences are soluble. Jela[c]i[c], Ban of Croatia, the idol of the
Serbo-Croats, was proclaimed dictator and supported by the Croatian Diet at Zagreb (Agram)
and the Serbian assembly at Karlovac (Karlowitz). The Serb Patriarch Raja[c]i[c] and the young
and gifted Stratimirovi[c], provisional administrator of the Serb Vojvodina, attended the Croatian
Diet and the High Mass where Bishop O[z]egovi[c] sang the Te Deum in Old Slavic. After Gaj,
Raja[c]i[c], and Stratimirovi[c] had failed at Vienna and Pressburg to bend the dynasty or
the defiant Kossuth, Jela[c]i[c] was empowered to defend the monarchy and bring back the historical
rights of the Triune Kingdom and the Serb Vojvodina. The dynasty and the monarchy survived,
but Jugo-Slav hopes and the promises they had received were unfulfilled or soon withdrawn,
as for instance the Vojvodina in 1861. Absolutism reigned supreme from 1849 to 1860.

This disappointment led the Croats and Serbs to try cooperation with the Magyars, who under
Deák and Eötvös appeared to be anxious to conciliate the non-Magyars in those uncertain years
which began in 1859 and ended in dualism. Austria lacked a great statesman, and the Prusso-Austrian
rivalry led the fearful and impatient Francis Joseph into the Compromise (Ausgleich) of 1867.
It was a work of haste and expediency and bound with it the fate of the dynasty. Thereafter,
the German minority in Austria and the Magyar minority in Hungary were the decisive factors
in the problems confronting the Jugo-Slavs. Dalmatia was handed over to Austria; Croatia, by
a compromise, which it has never really accepted, to Hungary.

The Ausgleich between Austria and Hungary and Hungary and Croatia opened in 1868 a period which
ended in 1905--it was a period, on the one hand of the greatest decay and decomposition in
the political life of the Jugo-Slavs, and, on the other, of the greatest literary and intellectual
unity as shaped by Bishop Strossmayer and Peter II and Nicholas of Montenegro.

Bishop Strossmayer and the Slovene, Croat, and Serb academies, matica, and learned societies,
as well as men of literature, spoke, wrote, and pleaded for unity in this period, in vain.
But they and the universities of Prague and Zagreb produced a younger generation which later
took up the fight for national unity and which abandoned individual political foibles and looked
over the boundaries of their provinces for inspiration.

Among the Slovenes, politics degenerated into the struggle for minor concessions from the court
at Vienna in regard to the Slovene language and schools, while political parties multiplied
freely through personal and social differences. The lines which bound them to their kinsmen
in the south were weakest during this period.

The Croats found themselves no match for the astute Magyars who resorted to packed diets, gerrymandering,
bribery, and forgery. The Compromise (Nagoda) of 1868 was as decisive as the murder of the
farsighted Prince Michael of Serbia in that year. It will be remembered that, in spite of his
many faults, he had made an agreement with Montenegro for the ultimate merging of their states
and, after allying himself with Rumania, had carried out an agreement with the Bulgarian committee
for the amalgamation of Bulgaria with Serbia, thus obtaining a commanding influence in the
Balkans. With his death, Serbia fell into the hands of Milan and Alexander, whose weak and
erratically despotic reigns ushered in an era in Serbian history from which she emerged in
1903, through the assassination and the extinction of the last of the Obrenovics, a country
without a good name, a nation which, through no special fault of its own, had become degraded.

It was in the midst of this political decay that the Bosnians revolted in 1875 and that Serbia,
Montenegro, Russia, and Rumania became involved in the Russo-Turkish war. Space forbids but
the most hasty survey of the occupation and administration by Austria of Bosnia and the Herzegovina
by virtue of the Treaty of Berlin in 1878.

Bismarck, Francis Joseph, and Andrassy were swayed by differing motives whose total result
was that Austria was to become a Balkan power--the outpost of the German Drang nach Osten--and
that it was worth while making a greater Serbia impossible, even at the cost of increasing
the number of Slavs in the Habsburg monarchy, which, now reenforced by the Ausgleich, could
stand the strain of advancing democracy and the necessity, therefore, of granting further rights
to the Slavs.

The occupation of Bosnia led to the first real quarrels in modern times between Croat and Serb,
for the former wanted Bosnia in Greater Croatia in order to have connection with Dalmatia;
the latter wished it annexed to Greater Serbia, because it was Serbian. Magyar and German,
further, quarreled as to the status of Bosnia and left it unsettled. But one thing was settled
by the occupation in 1879 and the annexation in 1908. Neither Greater Croatia nor Greater Serbia
were any longer truly possible as a final solution, only a Jugo-Slavia. The Greater Croatia
received a mortal blow by the addition of Serbs up to more than one third of the number of
Croats in Austria-Hungary, and Serbia faced the future either as a vassal or as a territory
which must be annexed. From that time until the present the Habsburg monarchy, largely owing
to the predominance of the Magyars in Croatia, adopted a policy of prevention--Jugo-Slav nationality
was to be prevented. Viewed in that light the rule of Count Khuen-Hedérv[a]ry, Ban of Croatia
from 1883 to 1903, in which time, according to Croats, he corrupted a whole generation, turned
Serb against Croat, and played out the radical demands of the party of Star[c]evi[c] and Frank,
is intelligible. The policy of Count Khuen, which was based on corruption and forgery, on press-muzzling
and career-exploding, has since been imitated, and its imitation has been largely responsible
for this war.

It was not until the Serbs and Croats formed their coalition in 1905 that the trial of strength
had come. In Serbia, Peter Karageorgevitch ascended the throne and reversed the pro-Austrian
policy of his predecessor. This it will be remembered was influenced until then by the Bulgarian
policy of Russia and by Serbia's defeat at the hands of Bulgaria in 1885. The commercial treaty
with Bulgaria in 1905, and the tariff war which Austria began immediately afterward, pointed
out which way the wind was blowing.

An era big with decisive events arrived. The Jugo-Slavs had learned that union meant victory,
division foreign mastery. Petty politics and religious fanaticism were forgotten, and Jugo-Slav
nationality was formed in the fierce fires of Austro-Magyar terrorism and forgery and in the
whirlwind reaped from the Balkan wars.

It was too late to talk of trialism unless it meant independence, and, when it meant that,
it did not mean Austrian trialism. The treason trial by which Baron Rauch hoped to split the
Serbo-Croat coalition, and which was to furnish the cause of a war with Serbia on the annexation
of Bosnia in 1908, collapsed. It rested on forgeries concocted within the walls of the Austro-Hungarian
legation in Belgrade where Count Forgách held forth. The annexation of Bosnia in 1908 completed
the operation begun in 1878 and called for the completion of the policy of prevention. It was
the forerunner of the press campaign in the first Balkan war, the Prohaska affair, the attack
by Bulgaria upon Serbia and Greece, the rebuff to Masaryk and Pa[s]i[c], the murder of Francis
Ferdinand, and the Austro-Hungarian note to Serbia. The mysteries connected with the forgeries
and this chain of events will remain a fertile field for detectives and psychologists and,
after that, for historians. For us, it is necessary to note that, as the hand of Pan-Germanism
became more evident, the Slovenes began to draw nearer to the Croats and the Serbs. It remained
only for the Serbs to electrify the Jugo-Slavs--"to avenge Kossovo with Kumanovo"--in order
to cement their loyalty to the regenerated Serbs. Religious differences, political rivalries,
linguistic quibbles, and the petty foibles of centuries appeared to be forgotten in the three
short years which elapsed from Kumanovo to the destruction of Serbia in 1915. The Greater Serbia
idea had really perished in 1915, as had the Greater Croatia idea in 1878. In their place emerged
Jugo-Slavia--the kingdom of the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes--implied by the South Slav Parliamentary
Club in Austria in their Declaration of May 30, 1917, and formulated by the Pact of Corfu of
July 7, 1917, which Pasié, premier of Serbia, and Trumbié, the head of the London Jugo-Slav
Committee, drew up. The evolution had been completed. Nationalism had proved stronger than
geography, stronger than opposing religions, more cohesive than political and economic interests.
For this, the Jugo-Slavs have not only themselves and modern progress, like railroad-building,
to thank, but also the policy of the Habsburg monarchy, the hopeful, though feeble, Note of
the Allies to President Wilson, the Russian Revolution, and the entry of the United States
into the war.

For the historian, it remains to examine the depth and the character of the movement. He should
neither lament that it succeeded, nor frown upon it that it did not come long ago when his
own nation achieved its unity. That it is a reality is proved by the fact that the Central
Powers believed its destruction worth this catastrophic war. A nation of eleven or twelve millions
holds the path to the Adriatic and the Aegean and the gateway to the Orient and world dominion.
It can help to make impossible the dream of mid-Europe or of Pan-Germany.

The Jugo-Slav movement has ended in the formation of a nation which is neither a doctrine,
nor a dream, but a reality.

APPENDICES DECLARATION OF THE JUGO-SLAV CLUB OF THE AUSTRIAN PARLIAMENT

ON MAY 30, 1917

"The undersigned deputies, assembled as the 'Jugo-slav Club,' taking their stand on the principle
of nationalities and on the rights of the Croatian state, declare that they demand that all
the countries in which Slovenes, Croats, and Serbs live shall be united in an independent and
democratic state organism, free from the domination of any foreign nation and placed under
the sceptre of the dynasty Habsburg-Lorraine. They declare that they will employ all their
forces to realize this demand of their single nation. The undersigned will take part in the
parliamentary labor after having made this reserve...."

     [FN: Referring to the Declaration of the Jugo-Slav Club, May
     30, 1917, in the Vienna Parliament J. J. Grgurevich,
     Secretary of the South Slavic National Council, Washington,
     D. C., writes:

     "In order to understand correctly this Declaration, it is
     necessary to state that the same was presented in the Vienna
     Parliament during war time, when each, even the most
     innocent, word in regard to rights, principles of
     nationality, and liberty of peoples, was considered and
     punished as a crime and treason, by imprisonment, even
     death.

