It has been the belief of some observers that some animals have senses by which they are enabled
to take cognizance of things which are not revealed directly to our senses. It is easy enough
to conceive of beings endowed with a more perfect perception of the external world, both in
its condition and the number of objects it presents, than we have, by means of other organs
of outward perception. Voltaire, in one of his philosophical romances, represents an inhabitant
of one of the planets of the Dog-Star as inquiring of the Secretary of the Academy of Sciences
in the planet of Saturn, at which he had recently arrived in a journey through the heavens,
how many senses the men of his globe had; and when the Academician answered, that they had
seventy-two, and were every day complaining of the smallness of the number, he of the Dog-Star
replied, that in his globe they had very near one thousand senses, and yet with all these they
felt continually a sort of listless inquietude and vague desire which told them how very imperfect
they were. But we shall not travel so far as this for our illustrations. We have all seen in
the fields and about our houses birds and insects which seem to take cognizance of the electric
state of the atmosphere; and we have learnt to feel quite sure, when, early in the morning
of a summer's day, we see fresh piles of sand around the holes of the ants, that a storm is
approaching, although the sky may as yet be cloudless and the air perfectly serene. In like
manner birds perceive the approach of rain, and are all busy oiling and smoothing their feathers
in preparation for it; and then, before the clouds break away, they come out from their retreats
and joyfully hail the return of fair weather. So, by some analogous sense, the birds of passage
are informed of the approach of winter and the return of spring.

It is doubtless true that in some animals the senses are immediately connected with instincts
which assist and extend their operation. Metaphysicians and physiologists are agreed that the
perception of distance is an acquired knowledge. The sense of sight by itself principally makes
us conversant with extension only. The painting upon the retina of the eye presents all external
things with flat surfaces and at the same distance. Before we can have any correct ideas of
distance, we must be able to compare the result of the sense of sight with the result of the
sense of feeling. By experience we in time come to judge something of distance by the size
of the image which an object makes upon the retina, but more by our acquired knowledge of the
form and color of external things. It is true that the eyes of many animals are constructed
like those of man; but they do not learn to judge of distance by the same slow process. It
is known from experiment that some animals have a perfect conception of distance at the moment
of their birth; and the young of the greater part of animals possess some instinctive perception
of this kind. "A flycatcher, for example, just come out of its shell, has been seen to peck
at an insect with an aim as perfect as if it had been all its life engaged in learning the
art." And so when the hen takes her chickens out into the field for the first time to feed,
they seem to perceive very distinctly the relative distance of all objects about them, and
will run by the straightest course when she calls them to pick up the little grains which she
points out to them. Without this instinctive power of determining the relative distance and
figure of objects, the young of most animals would perish before their sense of sight could
be perfected, as ours is, by experience.

We have now noticed the chief characteristics of instinct: its existence prior to all experience
or instruction; its incapacity of improvement, except within the narrow sphere of domestication;
its limitation to a few objects, and the certainty of its action within these limits; the distinctness
and permanence of its character for each species; and its constant hereditary nature. In regard
to the uniformity of instinct throughout each species, it may be further remarked, that this
seems to be very constantly preserved in the lowest divisions of the animal kingdom. Among
the Articulates, also, instinct appears almost unvarying; and it is in this department among
the insect tribes that the most striking manifestations of instinct are to be met with. When
we arrive among the higher orders of the Vertebrates, we find in some species that each individual
is capable of some modification of its actions, according to the particular circumstances in
which it finds itself placed. But throughout the long series of animals, from the polype to
man, there is instinctive action more or less in amount in every species, with, perhaps, the
exception of man alone. The variety of that endowment, which is adapted to definite objects,
means, and results, in each particular one of the five hundred thousand species estimated to
be now living, may well call forth our admiration and astonishment at the magnitude and extent
of the prospective contrivance of the Creator. How various the relations of all these animals
to each other and to the inanimate world about them! and yet how admirable the adjustments
of that immaterial principle which regulates their lives, so as to secure the well-being of
each and the symmetry of the general plan!

There has been much diversity of opinion as to the existence of instincts in the human species,--some
making the whole mind of man nothing but a bundle of instincts, and others wholly denying him
any endowment of this nature, while others still have given him a complex mental nature, and
have, moreover, declared that intellect and instinct in him are so interwoven that it is impossible
to tell where the one begins and the other ends. But we believe, with the author of "Ancient
Metaphysics," that in Nature, however intimately things are blended together and run into each
other like different shades of the same color, the species of things are absolutely distinct,
and that there are certain fixed boundaries which separate them, however difficult it may be
for us to find them out. In regard to intelligence and instinct, the two principles seem to
us to be not more distinctly and widely separated in their nature than in the provinces of
their operation.

Sir Henry Holland, who believes that intelligence and instinct are blended in man, admits that
instincts, properly so called, form the minimum in relation to reason, and are difficult of
definition from their connection with his higher mental functions, but that, wherever we can
truly distinguish them, they are the same in principle and manner of operation as those of
other animals. He makes one distinction, however, between the instincts of man and those of
lower animals,--that in the former they have more of individual character, are far less numerous
and definite in relation to the physical conditions of life, and more various and extensive
in regard to his moral nature. But, on the other hand, Sir B.C. Brodie seems to be of opinion
that the majority of instincts belonging to man resemble those of the inferior animals, inasmuch
as they relate to the preservation of the individual and the continuation of the species; and
that when man first began to exist, and for some generations afterwards, the range of his instincts
was much more extensive than it is at the present time. When authorities so eminent as these
differ so widely upon the question, to what human instincts relate, we see at least that it
is very difficult to define and distinguish these instincts, and we may be led to doubt their
existence at all. Of that marvellous endowment which guides the bee to fabricate its cells
according to laws of the most rigid mathematical exactness, and guides the swallow in its long
flight to its winter home, we agree with Professor Bowen, that there is no trace whatever in
human nature. The actions of man which have been loosely described as instinctive belong for
the most part to those classes of actions which we have already shown to be in no proper sense
of the word instinctive, that is, those concerned in the appetites and in the functions of
organic life. There are also numerous automatic and habitual actions which are liable to be
mistaken for instincts. Some have included in the category of instincts those intuitive perceptions
and primary beliefs which are a part of our constitution, and are the foundation of all our
knowledge. But these propensities of thought and feeling are of a higher nature than mere instincts;
they are immutable laws of the human mind, which time and physical changes cannot reach: they
do not seem to depend upon the physical organization, but to be inherent in the soul itself.
If these are instincts, then, why are not all the ways in which the mind exerts itself instincts
also, and reason itself an instinct?

There is hardly any human action, feeling, or belief, which has not been ranged under the term
instinct. Hunger and thirst have been called instincts; so have the faculty of speech, the
use of the right hand in preference to the left, the love of society, the desire to possess
property, the desire to avoid danger and prolong life, and the belief in supernatural agencies,
upon which is engrafted the religious sentiment. We cannot, in this paper, attempt to analyze
these and many other similar examples which have been given as illustrations of instinct in
treatises of high repute, and show that they do not at all come within that class of actions
which we contrast with reason. In regard to those actions of early infancy which have often
been adduced as illustrations of instinct, the physiologists of the present day are agreed
that they are as mechanical as the act of breathing. To place these upon the same level with
the complex and wonderful operations of the bee, the ant, and the beaver, is to admit that
the instincts of the latter are merely reflex actions following impressions on the nerves of sense.

On the other hand, whether the animals inferior to man ever exercise any conscious process
of reasoning is a question which has often been discussed, and upon which there is no general
agreement. Instances of the remarkable sagacity of some domesticated animals are often adduced
as proofs of reasoning on their part. Some of these wonderful feats may be traced to the unconscious
faculty of imitation, which even in man often appears as a blind propensity, although he exercises
an active and rational imitation as well. Sometimes the mere association of ideas, or the perception
by animals that one thing is accompanied by another or that one event follows another, is mistaken
for that higher principle which in man judges, reflects, and understands causes and effects.
When the dog sees his master take down his gun, his blandishments show that he anticipates
a renewal of the pleasures of the chase. He does not reflect upon past pleasures; but, seeing
the gun in his master's hand, a confused idea of the feelings that were associated with the
gun in times past is called up. So the ox and the horse learn to associate certain movements
with the voice and gesture of man. And so a fish, about the most stupid of all animals, comes
to a certain spot at a certain signal to be fed. These combinations are quite elementary. This
is quite another thing from that reciprocal action of ideas on each other by which man perceives
the relations of things, understands the laws of cause and effect, and not only forms judgments
of the past, but draws conclusions which are laws for the future. We find in the brute no power
of attending to and arranging its thoughts,--no power of calling up the past at will and reflecting
upon it. The animal has the faculty of memory, and, when this is awakened, the object remembered
may be accompanied by a train or attendance of accessory notions which have been connected
with the object in the animal's past experience. But it never seems to be able to exercise
the purely voluntary act of recollection. It is not capable of comparing one thing with another,
so far as we can judge. If the animal could exercise any true act of comparison, there would
be no limit to the exercise of it, and the animal would be an intelligent being; for the result
of a simple act of comparison is judgment, and reasoning is only a double act of comparison.
We have the authority of Sir William Hamilton for saying that the highest function of mind
is nothing higher than comparison. Hence comes thought,--hence, the power of discovering truth,--and
hence, the mind's highest dignity, in being able to ascend unassisted to the knowledge of a
God. Those who hold that the minds of the inferior animals are essentially of the same nature
with that of the human race, and differ only in degree, should reflect that the distinguishing
attribute of the human mind does not admit of degrees. The faculty of comparison, in all its
various applications, must be either wholly denied or else wholly attributed. Hence, Pope is
not philosophical, when he applies the epithet "half-reasoning" to the elephant. "As reasoning,"
says Coleridge, "consists wholly in a man's power of seeing whether any two ideas which happen
to be in his mind are or are not in contradiction with each other, it follows of necessity,
not only that all men have reason, but that every individual has it in the same degree." We
gather also from the same acute writer that in the simple determination, "black is not white,"
all the powers are implied that distinguish man from other animals. If, then, the brute reasoned
at all, he would be a rational being, and would improve and gain knowledge by experience; and,
moreover, he would be a moral agent, accountable for his conduct. "Would not the brute," asks
an able writer in the "Zooelogical Journal," "take a survey of his lower powers, and would
he not, as man does, either rightly use or pervert them, at his pleasure?"

It has been suggested by some one, that, by the law of merciful adaptation, which extends throughout
the universe, thought would not be imprisoned and pent up forever in an intelligence wanting
the power of expression. But it is also to be noticed that the want of an articulate language
or a system of general signs puts it out of the power of animals to perform a single act of
reasoning. The use of language to communicate wants and feelings is not peculiar to "word-dividing
men," though enjoyed by them in a much higher degree than by other animals. Doubtless every
species of social animals has some kind of language, however imperfect it may be. "We never
watch the busy workers of the ant-hill," says Acheta Domestics, (the author of "Episodes of
Insect-Life,") "stopping as they encounter and laying their heads together, without being pretty
certain that they are saying to each other something quite as significant as 'Fine day.'" And
when the morning wakes the choral song of the birds, they seem to be telling each other of
their happiness. But though animals have a language appropriate to the expression of their
sensations and emotions, they have no words, "those shadows of the soul, those living sounds."
Words are symbols of thoughts, and may be considered as a revelation of the human mind. It
is this use of language as an instrument of thought, as a system of general signs, which, according
to Bishop Whately, distinguishes the language of man from that of the brute; and the same eminent
authority declares that without such a system of general signs the reasoning process could
not be conducted.

It is true, that we often see in the inferior animals manifestations of deductions of intellect
similar to those of the human mind,--only that they are not made by the animals themselves,
but for them and above their conscious perception. "When a bee," says Dr. Reid, "makes its
combs so geometrically, the geometry is not in the bee, but in that great Geometrician who
made the bee, and made all things in number, weight, and measure." Since the animal is not
conscious of the intelligence and design which are manifested in its instincts, which it obeys
and works out, the conscious life of the individual must be wholly a life within the senses.
The senses alone can give the animal only an empirical knowledge of the world of its observation.
The senses may register and report facts, but they can never arrive at an understanding of
necessary truths; the source of this kind of knowledge is the rational mind, which has an active
disposition to draw out these infallible laws and eternal truths from its own bosom. The main
tendency of the rational mind is not towards mere phenomena, but their scientific explanation.
It seeks to trace effects, as presented to us by the senses, back to the causes which produced
them; or contemplating things wholly metaphysical, it seeks to follow out the laws which it
has itself discovered, till they have gone through a thousand probable contingencies and lost
themselves in numberless results. It is on account of this capacity and tendency of the human
mind to look through fact to law, through individuals to classes, through effects to causes,
through phenomena to general principles, that the late Dr. Burnap was led to declare, in a
very interesting course of lectures which he delivered before the Lowell Institute a few years
since, that he considered the first characteristic difference between the highest species of
animals and the lowest race of man to be a capacity of science. But is not the whole edifice
of human science built upon the simple faculty of comparison?

This is the ultimate analysis of all the highest manifestations of the human mind, whether
of judgment, or reason, or intellect, or common sense, or the power of generalization, or the
capacity of science. We have already quoted Hamilton to this effect, and we, moreover, have
his authority for saying that the faculty of discovering truth, by a comparison of the notions
we have obtained by observation and experience, is the attribute by which man is distinguished
as a creature higher than the animals. We might also cite Leibnitz to the effect that men differ
from animals in being capable of the formation of necessary judgments, and hence capable of
demonstrative sciences.

But notwithstanding it seems so apparent that what is customarily called reason is the distinguishing
endowment which makes man the "paragon of animals," we very often meet with attempts to set
up some other distinction. We cannot here go into an examination of these various theories,
or even allude to them specially. We will, however, briefly refer to a view which was recently
advanced in one of our leading periodicals, inasmuch as it makes prominent a distinction which
we wish to notice, although it seems to us to be only subordinate to the distinguishing attribute
of the human mind which we have already pointed out. It is said that self-consciousness is
what makes the great difference between man and other animals; that the latter do not separate
themselves consciously from the world in which they exist; and that, though they have emotions,
impulses, pains, and pleasures, every change of feeling in them takes at once the form of an
outward change either in place or position. It is not intended, however, to be said that they
have no conscious perception of external things. We cannot possibly conceive of an animal without
this condition of consciousness. A consciousness of an outward world is an essential quality
of the animal soul; this distinguishes the very lowest form of animal life from the vegetable
world; and hence it cannot possibly be, as has been suggested by some, that there are any animate
beings which have no endowments superior to those which belong to plants. The plant is not
conscious of an outward world, when it sends out its roots to obtain the nourishment which
is fitting for itself; but the polype, which is fixed with hundreds of its kind on the same
coral-stock, and is able only to move its mouth and tentacles, is aware of the presence of
the little craw-fish upon which it feeds, and throws out its lasso-cells and catches it. The
world of which the polype has any perception is not a very large one. The outer world of a
bird is vastly greater; and man knows a world without, which is immeasurably large beyond that
of which any other animal is conscious, because both his physical organs and his mental faculties
bring him into far the most diversified and intimate relations with all created things. He
sees in every flower of the garden and every beast of the field, in the air and in the sea,
in the earth beneath his feet and in the starry heavens above him, countless meanings which
are hidden to all the living world besides. To him there is a world which has existed and a
world that will exist. "Man," says Protagoras, "is the measure of the universe." But he has
a greater dignity in being able to apprehend the world of thought within. "Whilst I study to
find how I am a microcosm or little world," says Sir Thomas Browne, "I find myself something
more than the great." Man can make himself an object to himself and gain the deepest insight
into the workings of his own mind. This internal perception seems never to be developed in
other animals. We have already observed that they have no thought of their own. The intelligence
and design which they often manifest in their actions are not the workings of their own minds.
The intelligence and design belong to Him who impressed the thought upon the animal's mind
and unceasingly sustains it in action. They themselves are not conscious of any thought, but
only of "certain dim imperious influences" which urge them on. They are conscious of feelings
and desires and impulses. We could not conceive of the existence of these affections in animals
without their having an immediate knowledge of them. Even "the function of voluntary motion,"
says Hamilton, "which is a function of the animal soul in the Peripatetic doctrine, ought not,
as is generally done, to be excluded from the phenomena of consciousness and mind." The conscious
life of the irrational tribes seems, then, to be a life almost wholly within the senses. They
have nothing of that higher conscious personality which belongs to man and is an attribute
of a free intellect.

A general statement of the points made out in the foregoing inquiry will more clearly show
our conception of the nature and limitations of instinct. First, we limited the word instinct
so as to exclude all those automatic and mechanical actions concerned in the simple functions
of organic life,--as also to exclude the operations of the passions and appetites, since these
seek no other end than their own gratification. Then it was shown that instinct exists prior
to all experience or memory; that it comes to an instant or speedy perfection, and is not capable
of any improvement or cultivation; that its objects are precise and limited; that within its
proper sphere it often appears as the highest wisdom, but beyond this is only foolishness;
that it uses complex and laborious means to provide for the future, without any prescience
of it; that it performs important and rational operations which the animal neither intends
nor knows anything about; that it is permanent for each species, and is transmitted as an hereditary
gift of Nature; and that the few variations in its action result from the development of provisional
faculties, or from blind imitation. We were led to conclude that instinct is not a free and
conscious possession of the animal itself. We found some points of resemblance between intelligence
in man and instinct in other animals,--but at the same time points of dissimilarity, such as
to make the two principles appear radically unlike.

This brief summary presents nearly all that we can satisfactorily make out respecting instinct;
and at the same time it shows how much is still wanting to a complete solution of all the questions
which it involves. And then there are higher mysteries connected with the subject, which we
do not attempt to penetrate,--mysteries in regard to the creation and the maintenance of instinctive
action: whether it be the result of particular external conditions acting on the organization
of animals, or whether, as Sir Isaac Newton thought, the Deity himself is virtually the active
and present moving principle in them;--and mysteries, too, about the future of the brute world:
whether, as Southey wrote,

        "There is another world
For all that live and move,--a better world."

If we ever find a path which seems about to lead us up to these mysteries, it speedily closes
against us, and leaves us without any rational hope of attaining their solution.

MY OWN STORY.

"Oh, tell her, brief is life, but love is long."

"What have I got that you would like to have? Your letters are tied up and directed to you.
Mother will give them to you, when she finds them in my desk. I could execute my last will
myself, if it were not for giving her additional pain. I will leave everything for her to do
except this: take these letters, and when I am dead, give them to Frank. There is not a reproach
in them, and they are full of wit; but he won't laugh, when he reads them again. Choose now,
what will you have of mine?"

"Well," I said, "give me the gold pen-holder that Redmond sent you after he went away."

Laura rose up in her bed, and seized me by my shoulder, and shook me, crying between her teeth,
"You love him! you love him!" Then she fell back on her pillow. "Oh, if he were here now! He
went, I say, to marry the woman he was engaged to before he saw you. He was nearly mad, though,
when he went. The night mother gave them their last party, when you wore your black lace dress,
and had pink roses in your hair, somehow I hardly knew you that night. I was in the little
parlor, looking at the flowers on the mantelpiece, when Redmond came into the room, and, rushing
up to me, bent down and whispered, 'Did you see her go? I shall see her no more; she is walking
on the beach with Maurice.' He sighed so loud that I felt embarrassed; for I was afraid that
Harry Lothrop, who was laughing and talking in a corner with two or three men, would hear him;
but he was not aware that they were there. I did not know what to do, unless I ridiculed him.
'Follow them,' I said. 'Step on her flounces, and Maurice will have a chance to humiliate you
with some of his cutting, exquisite politeness.' He never answered a word, and I would not
look at him, but presently I understood that there were tears falling. Oh, you need not look
towards me with such longing; he does not cry for you now. They seemed to bring him to his
senses. He stamped his foot; but the carpet was thick; it only made a thud. Then he buttoned
his coat, giving himself a violent twist as he did it, and looked at me with such a haughty
composure, that, if I had been you, I should have trembled in my shoes. He walked across the
room toward the group of men.--'Ah, Harry,' he said, 'where is Maurice?' 'Don't you know?'
they all cried out; 'he has gone as Miss Denham's escort?' 'By Jove!' said Harry Lothrop,--'Miss
Denham was as handsome as Cleopatra, to-night. Little Maurice is now singing to her. Did he
take his guitar under his arm? It was here; for I saw a green bag near his hat, when we came
in to-night.' Just then we heard the twang of a guitar under the window, and Redmond, in spite
of himself, could not help a grimace.--Is it not a droll world?" said Laura, after a pause;
"things come about so contrariwise."

She laughed such a shrill laugh, that I shuddered to hear it, and I fell a-crying.  "But,"
she continued, "I am going, I trust, where a key will be given me for this cipher."

Tears came into her eyes, and an expression of gentleness filled her face.

"It is strange," she said, "when I know that I must die, that I should be so moved by earthly
passions and so interested in earthly speculations. My heart supplicates God for peace and
patience, and at the same moment my thoughts float away in dreams of the past. I shall soon
be wiser; I am convinced of that. The doctrine of compensation extends beyond this world; if
it be not so, why should I die at twenty, with all this mysterious suffering of soul? You must
not wonder over me, when I am gone, and ask yourself, 'Why did she live?' Believe that I shall
know why I lived, and let it suffice you and encourage you to go on bravely. Live and make
your powers felt. Your nature is affluent, and you may yet learn how to be happy."

She sighed softly, and turned her face to the wall, and moved her fingers as sick people do.
She waited for me to cease weeping: my tears rained over my face so that I could neither see
nor speak.

After I had become calmer, she moved toward me again and took my hand: her own trembled.

"It is for the last time, Margaret. My good, skilful father gives me no medicine now. My sisters
have come home; they sit about the house like mourners, with idle hands, and do not speak with
each other. It is terrible, but it will soon be over."

She pulled at my hand for me to rise. I staggered up, and met her eyes. Mine were dry now.

"Do not come here again. It will be enough for my family to look at my coffin. I feel better
to think you will be spared the pain."

I nodded.

"Good-bye!"

A sob broke in her throat.

"Margaret,"--she spoke like a little child,--"I am going to heaven."

I kissed her, but I was blind and dumb. I lifted her half out of the bed. She clasped her frail
arms round me, and hid her face in my bosom.

"Oh, I love you!" she said.

Her heart gave such a violent plunge, that I felt it, and laid her back quickly. She waved
her hand to me with a determined smile. I reached the door, still looking at her, crossed the
dark threshold, and passed out of the house. The bold sunshine smote my face, and the insolent
wind played about me. The whole earth was as brilliant and joyous as if it had never been furrowed
by graves.

Laura lived some days after my interview with her. She sent me no message, and I did not go
to see her. From the garret-windows of our house, which was half a mile distant from Laura's,
I could see the windows of the room where she was lying. Three tall poplar-trees intervened
in the landscape. I thought they stood motionless so that they might not intercept my view
while I watched the house of death. One morning I saw that the blinds had been thrown back
and the windows opened. I knew then that Laura was dead.

The day after the funeral I gave Frank his letters, his miniature, and the locket which held
a ring of his hair.

"Is there a fire?" he asked, when I gave them to him; "I want to burn these things."

I went to another room with him.

"I'll leave everything here to-day; and may I never see this cursed place again! Did she die,
do you know, because I held her promise that she would be my wife?"

He threw the papers into the grate, and crowded them down with his boot, and watched them till
the last blackened flake disappeared. He then took from his neck a hair chain, and threw that
into the fire also.

"It is all done now," he said.

He shook my hand with a firm grasp and left me.

A month later Laura's mother sent me a package containing two bundles of letters. It startled
me to see that the direction was dated before she was taken ill:--"To be given to Margaret
in case of my death. June 5th, 1848." They were my letters, and those which she had received
from Harry Lothrop. On this envelop was written, "Put these into the black box he gave you."
The gold pen-holder came into my hands also. Departure was engraved on the handle, and Laura's
initials were cut in an emerald in its top. The black box was an ebony, gold-plated toy, which
Harry Lothrop had given me at the same time Redmond gave Laura the pen-holder. It was when
they went away, after a whole summer's visit in our little town, the year before. I locked
the letters in the black box, and,

  "Whether from reason or from impulse only,"

I know not, but I was prompted to write a line to Harry Lothrop.  "Do not," I said, "write
Laura any more letters. Those you have already written to her are in my keeping, for she is
dead. Was it not a pleasant summer we passed together? The second autumn is already at hand:
time flies the same, whether we are dull or gay. For all this period what remains except the
poor harvest of a few letters?"

I received in answer an incoherent and agitated letter. What was the matter with Laura? he
asked. He had not heard from her for months. Had any rupture occurred between her and her friend
Frank? Did I suppose she was ever unhappy? He was shocked at the news, and said he must come
and learn the particulars of the event. He thanked me for my note, and begged me to believe
how sincere was his friendship for my poor friend.

"Redmond," he continued, "is, for the present, attached to the engineer corps to which I belong,
and he has offered to take charge of my business while I am a day or two absent. He is in my
room at this moment, holding your note in his hand, and appears painfully disturbed."

It was now a little past the time of year when Redmond and Harry Lothrop had left us,--early
autumn. After their departure, Laura and I had been sentimental enough to talk over the events
of their visit. Recalling these associations, we created an illusion of pleasure which of course
could not last. Harry Lothrop wrote to Laura, but the correspondence declined and died. As
time passed on, we talked less and less of our visitors, and finally ceased to speak of them.
Neither of us knew or suspected the other of any deep or lasting feeling toward the two friends.
Laura knew Redmond better than I did; at least, she saw him oftener; in fact, she knew both
in a different way. They had visited her alone; while I had met them almost entirely in society.
I never found so much time to spare as she seemed to have; for everybody liked her, and everybody
sought her. As often as we had talked over our acquaintance, she was wary of speaking of Redmond.
Her last conversation with me revealed her thoughts, and awakened feelings which I thought
I had buffeted down. The tone of Harry Lothrop's note perplexed me, and I found myself drifting
back into an old state of mind I had reason to dread.

As I said, the autumn had come round. Its quiet days, its sombre nights, filled my soul with
melancholy. The lonesome moan of the sea and the waiting stillness of the woods were just the
same a year ago; but Laura was dead, and Nature grieved me. Yet none of us are in one mood
long, and at this very time there were intervals when I found something delicious in life,
either in myself or the atmosphere.

  "Moreover, something is or seems
  That touches me with mystic gleams."

A golden morning, a starry night, the azure round of the sky, the undulating horizon of sea,
the blue haze which rose and fell over the distant hills, the freshness of youth, the power
of beauty,--all gave me deep voluptuous dreams.

I can afford to confess that I possessed beauty; for half my faults and miseries arose from
the fact of my being beautiful. I was not vain, but as conscious of my beauty as I was of that
of a flower, and sometimes it intoxicated me. For, in spite of the comforting novels of the
Jane Eyre school, it is hardly possible to set an undue value upon beauty; it defies ennui.

As I expected, Harry Lothrop came to see me. The sad remembrance of Laura's death prevented
any ceremony between us; we met as old acquaintances, of course, although we had never conversed
together half an hour without interruption. I began with the theme of Laura's illness and death,
and the relation which she had held toward me. All at once I discovered, without evidence,
that he was indifferent to what I was saying; but I talked on mechanically, and like a phantasm
the truth came to my mind. The real man was there,--not the one I had carelessly looked at
and known through Laura.

I became silent.

He twisted his fingers in the fringe of my scarf, which had fallen off, and I watched them.

"Why," I abruptly asked, "have I not known you before?"

He let go the fringe, and folded his hands, and in a dreamy voice replied,--

"Redmond admires you."

"What a pity!" I said. "And you,--you admire me, or yourself, just now; which?"

He flushed slightly, but continued with a bland voice, which irritated and interested me.

"All that time I was so near you, and you scarcely saw me; what a chance I had to study you!
Your friend was intelligent and sympathetic, so we struck a league of friendship: I could dare
so much with her, because I knew that she was engaged to marry Mr. Ballard. I own that I have
been troubled about her since I went away. How odd it is that I am here alone with you in this
room! how many times I have wished it! I liked you best here; and while absent, the remembrance
of it has been inseparable from the remembrance of you,--a picture within a picture. I know
all that the room contains,--the white vases, and the wire baskets, with pots of Egyptian lilies
and damask roses, the books bound in green and gold, the engravings of nymphs and fauns, the
crimson bars in the carpet, the flowers on the cushions, and, best of all, the arched window
and its low seat. But I had promised myself never to see you: it was all I could do for Laura.
She is dead, and I am here."

I rose and walked to the window, and looked out on the misty sea, and felt strangely.

"Another lover," I thought,--"and Redmond's friend, and Laura's. But it all belongs to the
comedy we play."

He came to where I stood.

"I know you so well," he said,--"your pride, your self-control, even your foibles: but they
attract one, too. You did not escape heart-whole from Redmond's influence. He is not married
yet, but he will be; he is a chivalrous fellow. It was a desperate matter between you two,--a
hand-to-hand struggle. It is over with you both, I believe: you are something alike. Now may
I offer you my friendship? If I love you, let me say so. Do not resist me. I appeal to the
spirit of coquetry which tempted you before you saw me to-night. You are dressed to please me."

I was thinking what I should say, when he skilfully turned the conversation into an ordinary
channel. He shook off his dreamy manner, and talked with his old vivacity. I was charmed a
little; an association added to the charm, I fancy. It was late at night when he took his leave.
He had arranged it all; for a man brought his carriage to the door and drove him to the next
town, where he had procured it to come over from the railway.

When I was shut in my room for the night, rage took possession of me. I tore off my dress,
twisted my hair with vehemence, and hurried to bed and tried to go to sleep, but could not,
of course. As when we press our eyelids together for meditation or sleep, violet rings and
changing rays of light flash and fade before the darkened eyeballs, so in the dark unrest of
my mind the past flashed up, and this is what I saw:--

The county ball, where Laura and I first met Redmond, Harry Lothrop, and Maurice. We were struggling
through the crowd of girls at the dressing-room door, to rejoin Frank, who was waiting for
us. As we passed out, satisfied with the mutual inspection of our dresses of white silk, which
were trimmed with bunches of rose-geranium, we saw a group of strangers close by us, buttoning
their gloves, looking at their boots, and comparing looks. Laura pushed her fan against my
arm; we looked at each other, and made signs behind Frank, and were caught in the act, not
only by him, but by a tall gentleman in the group which she had signalled me to notice.

The shadow of a smile was travelling over his face as I caught his eye, but he turned away
so suddenly that I had no opportunity for embarrassment. An usher gave us a place near the
band, at the head of the hall.

"Do not be reckless, Laura," I said,--"at least till the music gives you an excuse."

"You are obliged to me, you know," she answered, "for directing your attention to such attractive
prey. Being in bonds myself, I can only use my eyes for you: don't be ungrateful."

The band struck up a crashing polka, and she and Frank whirled away, with a hundred others.
I found a seat and amused myself by contrasting the imperturbable countenances of the musicians
with those of the dancers. The perfumes the women wore floated by me. These odors, the rhythmic
motion of the dancers, and the hard, energetic music exhilarated me. The music ended, and the
crowd began to buzz. The loud, inarticulate speech of a brilliant crowd is like good wine.
As my acquaintances gathered about me, I began to feel its electricity, and grew blithe and
vivacious. Presently I saw one of the ushers speaking to Frank, who went down the hall with him.

"Oh, my prophetic soul!" said Laura, "they are coming."

Frank came back with the three, and introduced them. Redmond asked me for the first quadrille,
and Harry Lothrop engaged Laura. Frank said to me behind his handkerchief,--"It's en regle;
I know where they came from; their fathers are brave, and their mothers are virtuous."

The quadrille had not commenced, so I talked with several persons near; but I felt a constraint,
for I knew I was closely observed by the stranger, who was entirely quiet. Curiosity made me
impatient for the dance to begin; and when we took our places, I was cool enough to examine
him. Tall, slender, and swarthy, with a delicate moustache over a pair of thin scarlet lips,
penetrating eyes, and a tranquil air. My antipodes in looks, for I was short and fair; my hair
was straight and black like his, but my eyes were blue, and my mouth wide and full.

"What an unnaturally pleasant thing a ball-room is!" he said,--"before the dust rises and the
lights flare, I mean. But nobody ever leaves early; as the freshness vanishes, the extravagance
deepens. Did you ever notice how much faster the musicians play as it grows late? When we open
the windows, the fresh breath of the night increases the delirium within. I have seen the quietest
women toss their faded bouquets out of the windows without a thought of making a comparison
between the flowers and themselves."

"My poor geraniums!" I said,--"what eloquence!"

He laughed, and answered,--

"My friend Maurice yonder would have said it twice as well."

We were in the promenade then, and stopped where the said Maurice was fanning himself against
the wall.

"May I venture to ask you for a waltz, Miss Denham? it is the next dance on the card," said
Maurice;--"but of course you are engaged."

I gave him my card, and he began to mark it, when Redmond took it, and placed his own initials
against the dance after supper, and the last one on the list. He left me then, and I saw him
a moment after talking with Laura.

We passed a gay night. When Laura and I equipped for our ten miles' ride, it was four in the
morning. Redmond helped Frank to pack us in the carriage, and we rewarded him with a knot of
faded leaves.

"This late event," said Laura, with a ministerial air, after we had started, "was a providential
one. You, my dear Frank, were at liberty to pursue your favorite pastime of whist, in some
remote apartment, without being conscience-torn respecting me. I have danced very well without
you, thanks to the strangers. And you, Margaret, have had an unusual opportunity of displaying
your latent forces. Three such different men! But let us drive fast. I am in want of the cup
of tea which mother will have waiting for me."

We arrived first at my door. As I was going up the steps, Laura broke the silence; for neither
of us had spoken since her remarks.

"By the way, they are coming here to stay awhile. They are anxious for some deep-sea fishing.
They'll have it, I think."

I heard Frank's laugh of delight at Laura's wit, as the carriage drove off.

It was our last ball that season.

It was late in the spring; and when Redmond came with his two friends and settled at the hotel
in our town, it was early summer. When I saw them again, they came with Laura and Frank to
pay me a visit. Laura was already acquainted with them, and asked me if I did not perceive
her superiority in the fact.

"Let us arrange," said Harry Lothrop, "some systematic plan of amusement by sea and land. I
have a pair of horses, Maurice owns a guitar, and Redmond's boat will be here in a few days.
Jones, our landlord, has two horses that are tolerable under the saddle. Let us ride, sail,
and be serenaded. The Lake House, Jones again, is eight miles distant. This is Monday; shall
we go there on horse-back Wednesday?"

Laura looked mournfully at Frank, who replied to her look,--

"You must go; I cannot; I shall go back to business to-morrow."

I glanced at Redmond; he was contemplating a portrait of myself at the age of fourteen.

"Shall we go?" Laura asked him.

"Nothing, thank you," he answered.

We all laughed, and Harry Lothrop said,--

"Redmond, my boy, how fond you are of pictures!"

Redmond, with an unmoved face, said,--

"Don't be absurd about my absent-mindedness. What were you saying?"

And he turned to me.

"Do you like our plan," I asked, "of going to the Lake House? There is a deep pond, a fine
wood, a bridge,--perch, pickerel,--a one-story inn with a veranda,--ham and eggs, stewed quince,
elderberry wine,--and a romantic road to ride over."

"I like it."

Frank opened a discussion on fishing; Laura and I withdrew, and went to the window-seat.

"I am light-hearted," I said.

"It is my duty to be melancholy," she replied; "but I shall not mope after Frank has gone."

"'After them the deluge,'" said I. "How long will they stay?"

"Till they are bored, I fancy."

"Oh, they are going; we must leave our recess."

Frank and she remained; the others bid us good-night.

"I shall not come again till Christmas," he said. "These college-chaps will amuse you and make
the time pass; they are young,--quite suitable companions for you girls. Vive la bagatelle!"

He sighed, and, drawing Laura's arm in his, rose to go. She groaned loudly, and he nipped her ears.

"Good-bye, Margaret; let Laura take care of you. There is a deal of wisdom in her."

We shook hands, Laura moaning all the while, and they went home.

Frank and Laura had been engaged three years. He was about thirty, and was still too poor to marry.

Wednesday proved pleasant. We had an early dinner, and our cavalcade started from Laura's.
I rode my small bay horse Folly, a gift from my absentee brother. His coat was sleeker than
satin; his ears moved perpetually, and his wide nostrils were always in a quiver. He was not
entirely safe, for now and then he jumped unexpectedly; but I had ridden him a year without
accident, and felt enough acquainted with him not to be afraid.

Redmond eyed him.

"You are a bold rider," he said.

"No," I answered,--"a careful one. Look at the bit, and my whip, too. I cut his hind legs when
he jumps. Observe that I do not wear a long skirt. I can slip off the saddle, if need be, without
danger."

"That's all very well; but his eyes are vicious; he will serve you a trick some day."

"When he does, I'll sell him for a cart-horse."

Laura and Redmond rode Jones's horses. Harry Lothrop was mounted on his horse Black, a superb,
thick-maned creature, with a cluster of white stars on one of his shoulders. Maurice rode a
wall-eyed pony. Our friends Dickenson and Jack Parker drove two young ladies in a carriage,--all
the saddle-horses our town could boast of being in use. We were in high spirits, and rode fast.
I was occupied in watching Folly, who had not been out for several days. At last, tired of
tugging at his mouth, I gave him rein, and he flew along. I tucked the edge of my skirt under
the saddle-flap, slanted forward, and held the bridle with both hands close to his head. A
long sandy reach of road lay before me. I enjoyed Folly's fierce trotting; but, as I expected,
the good horse Black was on my track, while the rest of the party were far behind. He soon
overtook me. Folly snorted when he heard Black's step. We pulled up, and the two horses began
to sidle and prance, and throw up their heads so that we could not indulge in a bit of conversation.

"Brute!" said Harry Lothrop,--"if I were sure of getting on again, I would dismount and thrash
you awfully."

"Remember Pickwick," I said; "don't do it."

I had hardly spoken, when the strap of his cap broke, and it fell from his head to the ground.
I laughed, and so did he.

"I can hold your horse while you dismount for it."

I stopped Folly, and he forced Black near enough for me to seize the rein and twist it round
my hand; when I had done so, Folly turned his head, and was tempted to take Black's mane in
his teeth; Black felt it, reared, and came down with his nose in my lap. I could not loose
my hands, which confused me, but I saw Harry Lothrop making a great leap. Both horses were
running now, and he was lying across the saddle, trying to free my hand. It was over in an
instant. He got his seat, and the horses were checked.

"Good God!" he said, "your fingers are crushed."

He pulled off my glove, and turned pale when he saw my purple hand.

"It is nothing," I said.

But I was miserably fatigued, and prayed that the Lake House might come in sight. We were near
the wood, which extended to it, and I was wondering if we should ever reach it, when he said,--

"You must dismount, and rest under the first tree. We will wait there for the rest of the party
to come up."

I did so. Numerous were the inquiries, when they reached us. Laura, when she heard the story,
declared she now believed in Ellen Pickering. Redmond gave me a searching look, and asked me
if the one-story inn had good beds.

"I can take a nap, if necessary," I answered, "in one of Mrs. Sampson's rush-bottomed chairs
on the veranda. The croak of the frogs in the pond and the buzz of the bluebottles shall be
my lullaby."

"No matter how, if you will rest," he said, and assisted me to remount.

We rode quietly together the rest of the way. After arriving, we girls went by ourselves into
one of Mrs. Sampson's sloping chambers, where there was a low bedstead, and a thick feather-bed
covered with a patchwork-quilt of the "Job's Trouble" pattern, a small, dim looking-glass surmounted
by a bunch of "sparrow-grass," and an unpainted floor ornamented with home-made rugs which
were embroidered with pink flower-pots containing worsted rose-bushes, the stalks, leaves,
and flowers all in bright yellow. We hung up our riding-skirts on ancient wooden pegs, for
we had worn others underneath them suitable for walking, and then tilted the wooden chairs
at a comfortable angle against the wall, put our feet on the rounds, and felt at peace with
all mankind.

"Alas!" I said, "it is too early for currant-pies."

"I saw," said one of the girls, "Mrs. Sampson poking the oven, and a smell of pies was in the air."

"Let us go into the kitchen," exclaimed Laura.

The proposal was agreeable; so we went, and found Mrs. Sampson making plum-cake.

"The pies are green-gooseberry-pies," whispered Laura,--"very good, too."

"Miss Denham," shrieked Mrs. Sampson, "you haven't done growing yet.--How's your mother and
your grandmother?--Have you had a revival in your church?--I heard of the young men down to
Jones's,--our minister's wife knows their fathers,--first-rate men, she says.--I thought you
would be here with them.--'Sampson,' I said this morning, as soon as I dressed, 'do pick some
gooseberries. I'll have before sundown twenty pies in this house.' There they are,--six gooseberry,
six custard, and, though it's late for them, six mince, and two awful great pigeon pies. It's
poor trash, I expect; I'm afraid you can't eat it; but it is as good as anybody's, I suppose."

We told her we should devour it all, but must first catch some fish; and we joined the gentlemen
on the veranda. A boat was ready for us. Laura, however, refused to go in it. It was too small;
it was wet; she wanted to walk on the bridge; she could watch us from that; she wanted some
flowers, too. Like many who are not afraid of the ocean, she held ponds and lakes in abhorrence,
and fear kept her from going with us. Harry Lothrop offered to stay with her, and take lines
to fish from the bridge. She assented, and, after we pushed off, they strolled away.

The lake was as smooth and white as silver beneath the afternoon sun and a windless sky; it
was bordered with a mound of green bushes, beyond which stretched deep pine woods. There was
no shade, and we soon grew weary. Jack Parker caught all the fish, which flopped about our
feet. A little way down, where the lake narrowed, we saw Laura and Harry Lothrop hanging over
the bridge.

"They must be interested in conversation," I thought; "he has not lifted his line out of the
water once."

Redmond, too, looked over that way often, and at last said,--

"We will row up to the bridge, and walk back to the house, if you, Maurice, will take the boat
to the little pier again."

"Oh, yes," said Maurice.

We came to the bridge, and Laura reached out her hand to me.

"Why, dear!" she exclaimed, "you have burnt your face. Why did you," turning to Redmond, "paddle
about so long in the hot sun?"

Her words were light enough, but the tone of her voice was savage. Redmond looked surprised;
he waved his hand deprecatingly, but said nothing. We went up toward the house, but Laura lingered
behind, and did not come in till we were ready to go to supper.

It was past sundown when we rose from the ruins of Mrs. Sampson's pies. We voted not to start
for home till the evening was advanced, so that we might enjoy the gloom of the pine wood.
We sat on the veranda and heard the sounds of approaching night. The atmosphere was like powdered
gold. Swallows fluttered in the air, delaying to drop into their nests, and chirped their evening
song. We heard the plunge of the little turtles in the lake, and the noisy crows as they flew
home over the distant tree-tops. They grew dark, and the sky deepened slowly into a soft gray.
A gentle wind arose, and wafted us the sighs of the pines and their resinous odors. I was happy,
but Laura was unaccountably silent.

"What is it, Laura?" I asked, in a whisper.

"Nothing, Margaret,--only it seems to me that we mortals are always riding or fishing, eating
or drinking, and that we never get to living. To tell you the truth, the pies were too sour.
Come, we must go," she said aloud.

Redmond himself brought Folly from the stable.

"We will ride home together," he said. "My calm nag will suit yours better than Black. Why
does your hand tremble?"

He saw my shaking hands, as I took the rein; the fact was, my wrists were nearly broken.

"Nothing shall happen to-night, I assure you," he continued, while he tightened Folly's girth.

He contrived to be busy till all the party had disappeared down a turn of the road. As he was
mounting his horse, Mrs. Sampson, who was on the steps, whispered to me,--

"He's a beautiful young man, now!"

He heard her; he had the ear of a wild animal; he took off his hat to Mrs. Sampson, and we
rode slowly away.

As soon as we were in the wood, Redmond tied the bridles of the horses together with his handkerchief.
It was so dark that my sight could not separate him from his horse. They moved beside me, a
vague, black shape. The horses' feet fell without noise in the cool, moist sand. If our companions
were near us, we could not see them, and we did not hear them. Horses generally keep an even
pace, when travelling at night,--subdued by the darkness, perhaps,--and Folly went along without
swaying an inch. I dropped the rein on his neck, and took hold of the pommel. My hand fell
on Redmond's. Before I could take it away, he had clasped it, and touched it with his lips.
The movement was so sudden that I half lost my balance, but the horses stepped evenly together.
He threw his arm round me, and recoiled from me as if he had received a blow.

"Take up your rein," he said, with a strange voice,--"quick!--we must ride fast out of this."

I made no reply, for I was trying to untie the handkerchief. The knot was too firm.

"No, no," he said, when he perceived what I was doing, "let it be so."

"Untie it, Sir!"

"I will not."

I put my face down between the horses' necks and bit it apart, and thrust it into my bosom.

"Now," I said, "shall we ride fast?"

He shook his rein, and we rode fiercely,--past our party, who shouted at us,--through the wood,--over
the brow of the great hill, from whose top we saw the dark, motionless sea,--through the long
street,--and through my father's gateway into the stable-yard, where I leaped from my horse,
and, bridle in hand, said, "Good night!" in a loud voice.

Redmond swung his hat and galloped off.

Early next morning, Laura sent me a note:--

"DEAR MARGARET,--I have an ague, and mean to have it till Sunday night. The pines did it. Did
you bring home any needles? On Monday, mother will give one of her whist-parties. I shall add
a dozen or two of our set; you will come.

"P.S. What do you think of Mr. Harry Lothrop? Good young man, eh?"

I was glad that Laura had shut herself up for a few days; I dreaded to see her just now. I
suffered from an inexplicable feeling of pride and disappointment, and did not care to have
her discover it. Laura, like myself, sometimes chose to protect herself against neighborly
invasions. We never kept our doors locked in the country; the sending in of a card was an unknown
process there. Our acquaintances walked in upon us whenever the whim took them, and it now
and then happened to be an inconvenience to us who loved an occasional fit of solitude. I determined
to keep in-doors for a few days also. Whenever I was in an unquiet mood, I took to industry;
so that day I set about arranging my drawers, making over my ribbons, and turning my room upside
down. I rehung all my pictures, and moved my bottles and boxes. Then I mended my stockings,
and marked my clothes, which was not a necessary piece of work, as I never left home. I next
attacked the parlor,--washed all the vases, changed the places of the furniture, and distressed
my mother very much. When evening came, I brushed my hair a good deal, and looked at my hands,
and went to bed early. I could not read then, though I often took books from the shelves, and
I would not think.

Sunday came round. The church-bells made me lonesome. I looked out of the window many times
that day, and, fixing on the sash one of my father's ship-glasses, swept the sea, and peered
at the islands on the other side of the bay, gazing through their openings, beyond which I
could see the great dim ocean. Mother came home from church, and said young Maurice was there,
and inquired about me. He hoped I did not take cold; his friend Redmond had been hoarse ever
since our ride, and had passed most of the time in his own room, drumming on the window-pane
and whistling dirges. Mother dropped her acute eyes on me, while she was telling me this; but
I yawned all expression from my face.

As Monday night drew near, my numbness of feeling began to pass off; thought came into my brain
by plunges. Now I desired; now I hoped. I dressed myself in black silk, and wore a cape of
black Chantilly lace. I made my hair as glossy as possible, drew it down on my face, and put
round my head a band composed of minute sticks of coral. When all was done, I took the candle
and held it above my head and surveyed myself in the glass. I was very pale. The pupils of
my eyes were dilated, as if I had received some impression that would not pass away. My lips
had the redness of youth; their color was deepened by my paleness.

"How handsome I am!" I thought, as I set down the candle.

When I entered Laura's parlor, she came toward me and said,--

"Artful creature! you knew well, this warm night, that every girl of us would wear a light
dress; so you wore a black one. How well you understand such matters! You are very clever;
your real sensibility adds effect to your cleverness. I see how it is. Come into this corner.
Have you got a fan? Good gracious! black, with gold spangles;--where do you buy your things?
I can tell you now," she continued, "my conversation on the bridge the other day."

She hesitated, and asked me if I liked her new muslin. She did look well in it; it was a white
fabric, with red rose-buds scattered over it. Her delicate face was shadowed by light brown
curls. She was attractive, and I told her so, and she began again:--

"Harry Lothrop said, as he was impaling the half of a worm,--

"'Redmond is a handsome fellow, is he not?'

"'He is too awfully thin,' I answered, 'but his eyes are good.'

"He gave me a crafty side-look, like that of a parrot, when he means to bite your finger.

"'Your friend, too,' he added, 'is really one of the most beautiful girls I ever saw,--a coquette
with a heart.'

"'Let down your line into the water,' I said.

"He laughed a little laugh. By-the-by, there is an insidious tenacity about Mr. Harry Lothrop
which irritates me; but I like him, for I think he understands women. I feel at ease with him,
when he is not throwing out his tenacious feelers. Then he said,--

"'Redmond is engaged to his cousin. The girl's mother had the charge of him through his boyhood.
He is ardently attached to her,--the mother, I mean. She is most anxious to call Redmond her son.'

"'Didn't you have a bite?' I said.

"'Well, I think the bait is off the hook,' he answered; and then we were silent and pondered
the water.

"There are some people I must speak to,"--and Laura moved away without looking at me.

I opened my fan, but felt chilly. A bustle near me caused me to raise my eyes; Redmond was
speaking to a lady. He was in black, too, and very pale. He turned toward me and our eyes met.
His expression agitated me so that I unconsciously rose to my feet and warned him off with
my fan; but he seemed rooted to the spot. Laura took care of us both; she came and stood between
us. I saw her look at him so sweetly and so mournfully, that he understood her in a moment.
He shook his head and walked abruptly into another room. Laura went again from me without giving
me a look. Maurice came up and I made room for him beside me. We talked of the riding-party,
and then of our first meeting at the ball. He told me that Redmond's boat had arrived, and
what a famous boat it was, and "what jolly sprees we fellows had, cruising about with her."
I asked him about his guitar, and when we might hear him play. He grew more chatty and began
to tell me about his sister, when Redmond and Harry Lothrop came over to us, which ended his chat.

The party was like all parties,--dull at first, and brighter as it grew late. The old ladies
played whist in one room, and the younger part of the company were in another. Champagne was
not a prevalent drink in our village, but it happened that we had some that night.

"It may be a sinful beverage," said an old lady near me, "but it is good."

Redmond opened a bottle for me, we clinked glasses, and drank to an indefinite, silent wish.

"One more," he asked, "and let us change glasses."

Presently a cloud of delicate warmth spread over my brain, and gave me courage to seek and
meet his glance. There must have been an expression of irresolution in my face, for he looked
at me inquiringly, and then his own face grew very sad. I felt awkward from my intuition of
his opinion of my mood, when he relieved me by saying something about Shelley,--a copy of whose
poems lay on a table near. From Shelley he went to his boat, and said he hoped to have some
pleasant excursions with Laura and myself. He "would go at once and talk with Laura's mother
about them." I watched him through the door, while he spoke to her. She was in a low chair,
and he leaned his face on one hand close to hers. I saw that his natural expression was one
of tranquillity and courage. He was not more than twenty-two, but the firmness of the lines
about his mouth belied his youth.

"He has a wonderful face," I thought, "and just as wonderful a will."

I felt my own will rise as I looked at him,--a will that should make me mistress of myself,
powerful enough to contend with, and resist, or turn to advantage any controlling fate which
might come near me.

"Do you feel like singing?" Harry Lothrop inquired. "Do you know Byron's song, 'One struggle
more and I am free'?"

"Oh, yes!" I replied,--"it is set to music which suits my voice. I will sing it."

Laura had been playing polkas with great spirit. Since the Champagne, the old ladies had closed
their games of whist for talking, and, as it was nearly time to go, the company was gay. There
was laughing and talking when I began, but silence soon after, for the wine made my voice husky
and effective. I sang as if deeply moved.

"Lord!" I heard Maurice say to Laura, as I rose from the piano, "what a girl! she's really tragic."

I caught Harry Lothrop's eye, as I passed through the door to go up-stairs; it was burning;
I felt as if a hot coal had dropped on me. Maurice ran into the hall and sprang upon the stair-railing
to ask me if he might be my escort home. That night he serenaded me. He was a good-hearted,
cheerful creature; conceited, as small men are apt to be,--conceit answering for size with
them,--but pleasantly so, and I learned to like him as much as Redmond did.

The summer days were passing. We had all sorts of parties,--parties in houses and out-of-doors;
we rode and sailed and walked. Laura walked and talked much with Harry Lothrop. We did not
often see each other alone, but, when we met, were more serious and affectionate with each
other. We did not speak, except in a general way, of Redmond and Harry Lothrop. I did not avoid
Redmond, nor did I seek him. We had many a serious conversation in public, as well as many
a gay one; but I had never met him alone since the night we rode through the pines.

He went away for a fortnight. On the day of his return he came to see me. He looked so glad,
when I entered the room, that I could not help feeling a wild thrill. I went up to him, but
said nothing. He held out both his hands. I retreated. An angry feeling rushed into my heart.

"No," I said, "Whose hand did you hold last?"

He turned deadly pale.

"That of the woman I am going to marry."

I smiled to hide the trembling of my lips, and offered my hand to him; but he waved it away,
and fell back on his chair, hurriedly drawing his handkerchief across his face. I saw that
he was very faint, and stood against the door, waiting for him to recover.

"More than I have played the woman and the fool before you."

"Yes."

"I thought so. You seem experienced."

"I am."

"Forgive me," he said, gently; "being only a man, I think you can. Good God!" he exclaimed,
"what an infernal self-possession you show!"

"Redmond, is it not time to end this? The summer has been a long one,--has it not?--long enough
for me to have learned what it is to live. Our positions are reversed since we have become
acquainted. I am for the first time forgetting self, and you for the first time remember self.
Redmond, you are a noble man. You have a steadfast soul. Do not be shaken. I am not like you;
I am not simple or single-hearted. But I imitate you. Now come, I beg you will go."

"Certainly, I will. I have little to say."

August had nearly gone when Maurice told me they were about to leave. Laura said we must prepare
for retrospection and the fall sewing.

"Well," I said, "the future looks gloomy, and I must have some new dresses."

Maurice came to see me one morning in a state of excitement to say we were all going to Bird
Island to spend the day, dine at the light-house, and sail home by moonlight. Fifteen of the
party were going down by the sloop Sapphire, and Redmond had begged him to ask if Laura and
I would go in his boat.

"Do go," said Maurice; "it will be our last excursion together; next week we are off. I am
broken-hearted about it. I shall never be so happy again. I have actually whimpered once or
twice. You should hear Redmond whistle nowadays. Harry pulls his moustache and laughs his oily
laughs, but he is sorry to go, and kicks his clothes about awfully. By the way, he is going
down in the sloop because Miss Fairfax is going,--he says,--that tall young lady with crinkled
hair;--he hates her, and hopes to see her sick. May I come for you in the morning, by ten o'clock?
Redmond will be waiting on the wharf."

"Tell Redmond," I answered, "that I will go; and will you ask Harry Lothrop not to engage himself
for all the reels to Miss Fairfax?"

He promised to fulfil my message, and went off in high spirits. I wondered, as I saw him going
down the walk, why it was that I felt so much more natural and friendly with him than with
either of his friends. I often talked confidentially to him; he knew how I loved my mother,
and how I admired my father, and I told him all about my brother's business. He also knew what
I liked best to eat and to wear. In return, he confided his family secrets to me. I knew his
tastes and wishes. There was no common ground where I met Redmond and Harry Lothrop. There
were too many topics between Redmond and myself to be avoided, for us to venture upon private
or familiar conversation. Harry Lothrop was an accomplished, fastidious man of the world, I
dreaded boring him, and so I said little. He was several years older than Redmond, and possessed
more knowledge of men, women, and books. Redmond had no acquirements, he knew enough by nature,
and I never saw a person with more fascination of manner and voice.

The evening before the sailing-party, I had a melancholy fit. I was restless, and after dark
I put a shawl over my head and went out to walk. I went up a lonesome road, beyond our house.
On one side I heard the water washing against the shore with regularity, as if it were breathing.
On the other side were meadows, where there were cows crunching the grass. A mile farther was
a low wood of oaks, through which ran a path. I determined to walk through that. The darkness
and a sharp breeze which blew against me from limitless space made me feel as if I were the
only human creature the elements could find to contend with, I turned down the little path
into the deeper darkness of the wood, sat down on a heap of dead leaves, and began to cry.

"Mine is a miserable pride," was my thought,--"that of arming myself with beauty and talent
and going through the world conquering! Girls are ignorant, till they are disappointed. The
only knowledge men proffer us is the knowledge of the heart; it becomes us to profit by it.
Redmond will marry that girl. He must, and shall. I will empty the dust and ashes of my heart
as soon as the fire goes down: that is, I think so; but I know that I do not know myself. I
have two natures,--one that acts, and one that is acted upon,--and I cannot always separate
the one from the other."

Something darkened the opening into the path. Two persons passed in slowly. I perceived the
odor of violets, and felt that one of them must be Laura. Waiting till they passed beyond me,
I rose and went home.

The next morning was cloudy, and the sea was rough with a high wind; but we were old sailors,
and decided to go on our excursion. The sloop and Redmond's boat left the wharf at the same
time. We expected to be several hours beating down to Bird Island, for the wind was ahead.
Laura and I, muffled in cloaks, were placed on the thwarts and neglected; for Redmond and Maurice
were busy with the boat. Laura was silent, and looked ill. Redmond sat at the helm, and kept
the boat up to the wind, which drove the hissing spray over us. The sloop hugged the shore,
and did not feel the blast as we did. I slid along my seat to be near Redmond. He saw me coming,
and put out his hand and drew me towards him, looking so kindly at me that I was melted. Trying
to get at my handkerchief, which was in my dress-pocket, my cloak flew open, the wind caught
it, and, as I rose to draw it closer, I nearly fell overboard. Redmond gave a spring to catch
me, and the boat lost her headway. The sail flapped with a loud bang. Maurice swore, and we
chopped about in the short sea.

"It is your destiny to have a scene, wherever you are," said Laura. "If I did not feel desperate,
I should be frightened. But these green, crawling waves are so opaque, if we fall in, we shall
not see ourselves drown."

"Courage! the boat is under way," Maurice cried out; "we are nearly there."

And rounding a little point, we saw the light-house at last. The sloop anchored a quarter of
a mile from the shore, the water being shoal, and Redmond took off her party by instalments.

"What the deuse was the matter with you at one time?" asked Jack Parker. "We saw you were having
a sort of convulsion. Our cap'n said you were bold chaps to be trifling with such a top-heavy
boat."

"Miss Denham," said Redmond, "thought she could steer the boat as well as I could, and so the
boat lost headway."

Harry Lothrop gave Redmond one of his soft smiles, and a vexed look passed over Redmond's face
when he saw it.

We had to scramble over a low range of rocks to get to the shore. Redmond anchored his boat
by one of them. Bird Island was a famous place for parties. It was a mile in extent. Not a
creature was on it except the light-house keeper, his wife, and daughter. The gulls made their
nests in its rocky borders; their shrill cries, the incessant dashing of the waves on the ledges,
and the creaking of the lantern in the stone tower were all the sounds the family heard, except
when they were invaded by some noisy party like ours. They were glad to see us. The light-house
keeper went into the world only when it was necessary to buy stores, or when his wife and daughter
wanted to pay a visit to the mainland.

The house was of stone, one story high, with thick walls. The small, deep-set windows and the
low ceilings gave the rooms the air of a prison; but there was also an air of security about
them: for, in looking from the narrow windows, one felt that the house was a steadfast ship
in the circle of the turbulent sea, whose waves from every point seemed advancing towards it.
A pale, coarse grass grew in the sand of the island. It was too feeble to resist the acrid
breath of the ocean, so it shuddered perpetually, and bent landward, as if invoking the protection
of its stepmother, the solid earth.

"It is perfect," said Redmond to me; "I have been looking for this spot all my life; I am ready
to swear that I will never leave it."

We were sitting in a window, facing each other. He looked out toward the west, and presently
was lost in thought. He folded his arms tightly across his breast, and his eyes were a hundred
miles away. The sound of a fiddle in the long alley which led from the house to the tower broke
his reverie.

"We shall be uproarious before we leave," I said; "we always are, when we come here."

The fun had already set in. Some of the girls had pinned up their dresses, and borrowed aprons
from the light-house keeper's wife, and with scorched faces were helping her to make chowder
and fry fish. Others were arranging the table, assisted by the young men, who put the dishes
in the wrong places. Others were singing in the best room. One or two had brought novels along,
and were reading them in corners. It was all merry and pleasant, but I felt quiet. Redmond
entered into the spirit of the scene. I had never seen him so gay. He chatted with all the
girls, interfering or helping, as the case might be. Maurice brought his guitar, and had a
group about him at the foot of the tower-stairs. He sung loud, but his voice seemed to fluctuate;--now
it rang through the tower, now it was half overpowered by the roar of the sea. His poetical
temperament led him to choose songs in harmony with the place, not to suit the company,--melancholy
words set to wild, fitful chords, which rose and died away according to the skill of the player.
I had gone near him, for his singing had attracted me.

"You are inspired," I said.

He nodded.

"You never sung so before."

"I feel old to-day," he answered, and he swept his hands across all the strings; "my ditties
are done."

After dinner Laura asked me to go out with her. We slipped away unseen, and went to the beach,
and seated ourselves on a great rock whose outer side was lapped by the water. The sun had
broken through the clouds, but shone luridly, giving the sea a leaden tint. The wind was going
down. We had not been there long, when Redmond joined us. He asked us to go round the island
in his boat. Laura declined, and said she would sit on the rock while we went, if I chose to
go. I did choose to go, and he brought the boat to the rock. He hoisted the sail half up the
mast, and we sailed close to the shore. It rose gradually along the east side of the island,
and terminated in a bold ledge which curved into the sea. We ran inside the curve, where the
water was nearly smooth. Redmond lowered the sail and the boat drifted toward the ledge slowly.
A tongue of land, covered with pale sedge, was on the left side. Above the ledge, at the right,
we could see the tower of the light-house. Redmond tied down the helm, and, throwing himself
beside me, leaned his head on his hand, and looked at me a long time without speaking. I listened
to the water, which plashed faintly against the bows. He covered his face with his hands. I
looked out seaward over the tongue of land; my heart quaked, like the grass which grew upon
it. At last he rose, and I saw that he was crying,--the tears rained fast.

"My soul is dying," he said, in a stifled voice; "I am not more than mortal,--I cannot endure it."

I pointed toward the open sea, which loomed so vague in the distance.

"The future is like that,--is it not? Courage! we must drift through it; we shall find something."

He stamped his foot on the deck.

"Women always talk so; but men are different. If there is a veil before us, we must tear it
away,--not sit muffled in its folds, and speculate on what is behind it. Rise."

I obeyed him. He held me firmly. We were face to face.

"Look at me."

I did. His eyes were blazing.

"Do you love me?"

"No."

He placed me on the bench, hoisted the sail, untied the helm, and we were soon ploughing round
to the spot where we had left Laura; but she was gone. On the rock where she was, perched a
solitary gull, which flew away with a scream as we approached.

That day was the last that I saw Redmond alone. He was at the party at Laura's house which
took place the night before they left. We did not bid each other adieu.

After the three friends had gone, they sent us gifts of remembrance. Redmond's keepsake was
a white fan with forget-me-nots painted on it. To Laura he sent the pen-holder, which was now mine.

We missed them, and should have felt their loss, had no deep feeling been involved; for they
gave an impetus to our dull country life, and the whole summer had been one of excitement and
pleasure. We settled by degrees into our old habits. At Christmas, Frank came. He looked worried
and older. He had heard something of Laura's intimacy with Harry Lothrop, and was troubled
about it, I know: but I believe Laura was silent on the matter. She was quiet and affectionate
toward him during his visit, and he went back consoled.

The winter passed. Spring came and went, and we were deep into the summer when Laura was taken
ill. She had had a little cough, which no one except her mother noticed. Her spirits fell,
and she failed fast. When I saw her last, she had been ill some weeks, and had never felt strong
enough to talk as much as she did in that interview. She nerved herself to make the effort,
and as she bade me farewell, bade farewell to life also. And now it was all over with her!

       *       *       *       *       *

I fell asleep at length, and woke late. It seemed as if a year had dropped out of the procession
of Time. My heart was still beating with the emotion which stirred it when Redmond and I were
together last. Recollection had stung me to the quick. A terrible longing urged me to go and
find him. The feeling I had when we were in the boat, face to face, thrilled my fibres again.
I saw his gleaming eyes; I could have rushed through the air to meet him. But, alas! exaltation
of feeling lasts only a moment; it drops us where it finds us. If it were not so, how easy
to be a hero! The dull reaction of the present, like a slow avalanche, crushed and ground me
into nothingness.

"Something must happen at last," I thought, "to amuse me, and make time endurable."

What can a woman do, when she knows that an epoch of feeling is rounded off, finished, dead?
Go back to her story-books, her dress-making, her worsted-work? Shall she attempt to rise to
mediocrity on the piano or in drawing, distribute tracts, become secretary of a Dorcas society?
or shall she turn her mind to the matter of cultivating another lover at once? Few of us women
have courage enough to shoulder out the corpses of what men leave in our hearts. We keep them
there, and conceal the ruins in which they lie. We grow cunning and artful in our tricks, the
longer we practise them. But how we palpitate and shrink and shudder, when we are alone in
the dark!

After Redmond departed, I had locked up my feelings and thrown the key away. The death of Laura,
and the awakening of my recollections, caused by the appearance of Harry Lothrop, wrenched
the door open. Hitherto I had acted with the bravery of a girl; I must now behave with the
resolution of a woman. I looked into my heart closely. No skeleton was there, but the image
of a living man,--Redmond.

"I love him," I confessed. "To be his wife and the mother of his children is the only lot I
ever care to choose. He is noble, handsome, and loyal. But I cannot belong to him, nor can
he ever be mine.

  "'Of love that never found his earthly close
  What sequel?'

"What did he do with the remembrance of me? He scattered it, perhaps, with the ashes of the
first cigar he smoked after he went from me,--made a mound of it, maybe, in honor of Duty.
I am as ignorant of him as if he no longer existed; so this image must be torn away. I will
not burn the lamp of life before it, but will build up the niche where it stands into a solid
wall."

The ideal happiness of love is so sweet and powerful, that, for a while, adverse influences
only exalt the imagination. When Laura told me of Redmond's engagement, it did but change my
dream of what might be into what might have been. It was a mirage which continued while he
was present and faded with his departure. Then my heart was locked in the depths of will, till
circumstance brought it a power of revenge. I think now, if we had spoken freely and truly
to each other, I should have suffered less when I saw his friend. We feel better when the funeral
of our dearest friend is over and we have returned to the house. There is to be no more preparation,
no waiting; the windows may be opened, and the doors set wide; the very dreariness and desolation
force our attention towards the living.

"Something will come," I thought; and I determined not to have any more reveries. "Mr. Harry
Lothrop is a pleasant riddle; I shall see him soon, or he will write."

It occurred to me then that I had some letters of his already in my possession,--those he had
written to Laura. I found the ebony box, and, taking from it the sealed package, unfolded the
letters one by one, reading them according to their dates. There was a note among them for
me, from Laura.

"When you read these letters, Margaret," it said, "you will see that I must have studied the
writer of them in vain. You know now that he made me unhappy; not that I was in love with him
much, but he stirred depths of feeling which I had no knowledge of, and which between Frank,
my betrothed husband, and myself had no existence. But 'le roi s'amuse.' Perhaps a strong passion
will master this man; but I shall never know. Will you?"

I laid the letters back in their place, and felt no very strong desire to learn anything more
of the writer. I did not know then how little trouble it would be,--my share of making the
acquaintance.

It was not many weeks before Mr. Lothrop came again, and rather ostentatiously, so that everybody
knew of his visit to me. But he saw none of the friends he had made during his stay the year
before. I happened to see him coming, and went to the door to meet him. Almost his first words
were,--

"Maurice is dead. He went to Florida,--took the fever,--which killed him, of course. He died
only a week after--after Laura. Poor fellow! did he interest you much? I believe he was in
love with you, too; but musical people are never desperate, except when they play a false note."

"Yes," I answered; "I was fond of him. His conceit did not trouble me, and he never fatigued
me; he had nothing to conceal. He was a commonplace man; one liked him, when with him,--and
when away, one had no thought about him."

"I alone am left you," said my visitor, putting his hat on a chair, and slowly pulling off
his gloves, finger by finger.

He had slender, white hands, like a woman's, and they were always in motion. After he had thrown
his gloves into his hat, he put his finger against his cheek, leaned his elbow on the arm of
his chair, crossed his legs, and looked at me with a cunning self-possession. I glanced at
his feet; they were small and well-booted. I looked into his face; it was not a handsome one;
but he had magnetic eyes, of a lightish blue, and a clever, loose mouth. It is impossible to
describe him,--just as impossible as it is for a man who was born a boor to attain the bearing
of a gentleman; any attempt at it would prove a bungling matter, when compared with the original.
He felt my scrutiny, and knew, too, that I had never looked at him till then.

"Do you sing nowadays?" he asked, tapping with his fingers the keys of the piano behind him.

"Psalms."

"They suit you admirably; but I perceive you attend to your dress still. How effective those
velvet bands are! You look older than you did two years ago."

"Two years are enough to age a woman."

"Yes, if she is miserable. Can you be unhappy?" he asked, rising, and taking a seat beside me.

There was a tone of sympathy in his voice which made me shudder, I knew not why. It was neither
aversion nor liking; but I dreaded to be thrown into any tumult of feeling. I realized afterward
more fully that it is next to impossible for a passionate woman to receive the sincere addresses
of a manly man without feeling some fluctuation of soul. Ignorant spectators call her a coquette
for this. Happily, there are teachers among our own sex, women of cold temperaments, able to
vindicate themselves from the imputation. They spare themselves great waste of heart and some
generous emotion,--also remorse and self-accusations regarding the want of propriety, and the
other ingredients which go to make up a white-muslin heroine.

Harry Lothrop saw that my cheek was burning, and made a movement toward me. I tossed my head
back, and moved down the sofa; he did not follow me, but smiled and mused in his old way.

And so it went on,--not once, but many times. He wrote me quiet, persuasive, eloquent letters.
By degrees I learned his own history and that of his family, his prospects and his intentions.
He was rich. I knew well what position I should have, if I were his wife. My beauty would be
splendidly set. I was well enough off, but not rich enough to harmonize all things according
to my taste. I was proud, and he was refined; if we were married, what better promise of delicacy
could be given than that of pride in a woman, refinement in a man? He brought me flowers or
books, when he came. The flowers were not delicate and inodorous, but magnificent and deep-scented;
and the material of the books was stalwart and vigorous. I read his favorite authors with him.
He was the first person who ever made any appeal to my intellect. In short, he was educating
me for a purpose.

Once he offered me a diamond cross. I refused it, and he never asked me to accept any gift
again. His visits were not frequent, and they were short. However great the distance he accomplished
to reach me, he staid only an evening, and then returned. He came and went at night. In time
I grew to look upon our connection as an established thing. He made me understand that he loved
me, and that he only waited for me to return it; but he did not say so.

I lived an idle life, inhaling the perfume of the flowers he gave me, devouring old literature,
the taste for which he had created, and reading and answering his letters. To be sure, other
duties were fulfilled, I was an affectionate child to my parents, and a proper acquaintance
for my friends. I never lost any sleep now, nor was I troubled with dreams. I lived in the
outward; all my restless activity, that constant questioning of the heavens and the earth,
had ceased entirely. Five years had passed since I first saw Redmond. I was now twenty-four.
The Fates grew tired of the monotony of my life, I suppose, for about this time it changed.

My oldest brother, a bachelor, lived in New York. He asked me to spend the winter with him;
he lived in a quiet hotel, had a suite of rooms, and could make me comfortable, he said. He
had just asked somebody to marry him, and that somebody wished to make my acquaintance. I was
glad to go. My heart gave a bound at the prospect of change; I was still young enough to dream
of the impossible, when any chance offered itself to my imagination; so I accepted my brother's
invitation with some elation.

I had been in New York a month. One day I was out with my future sister, on a shopping raid;
with our hands full of little paper parcels, we stopped to look into Goupil's window. There
was always a rim of crowd there, so I paid no attention to the jostles we received. We were
looking at an engraving of Ary Scheffer's Francoise de Rimini. "Not the worst hell," muttered
a voice behind me, which I knew. I started, and pulled Leonora's arm; she turned round, and
the fringe of her cloak-sleeve caught a button on the overcoat of one of the gentlemen standing
together. It was Redmond; the other was his "ancient," Harry Lothrop. Leonora was arrested;
I stood still, of course. Redmond had not seen my face, for I turned it from him; and his head
was bent down to the task of disengaging his button.

  "'Each only as God wills
  Can work; God's puppets, best and worst,
  Are we; there is no last nor first,'"

I thought, and turned my head. He instinctively took off his hat, and then planted it back
on his head firmly, and looked over to Harry Lothrop, to whom I gave my hand. He knew me before
I saw him, I am convinced; but his dramatic sense kept him silent,--perhaps a deeper feeling.
There was an expression of pain in his face, which impelled me to take his arm.

"Let us move on, Leonora," I said; "these are some summer friends of mine," and I introduced
them to her.

My chief feeling was embarrassment, which was shared by all the party; for Leonora felt that
there was something unusual in the meeting. The door of the hotel seemed to come round at last,
and as we were going in, Harry Lothrop asked me if he might see me the next morning.

"Do come," I answered aloud.

We all bowed, and they disappeared.

"What an elegant Indian your tall friend is!" said Leonora.

"Yes,--of the Camanche tribe."

"But he would look better hanging from his horse's mane than he does in a long coat."

"He is spoiled by civilization and white parents. But, Leonora, stay and dine with me, in my
own room. John will not come home till it is time for the opera. You know we are going. You
must make me splendid; you can torture me into style, I know."

She consented, provided I would send a note to her mother, explaining that it was my invitation,
and not her old John's, as she irreverently called him. I did so, and she was delighted to stay.

"This is fast," she said; "can't we have Champagne and black coffee?"

She fell to rummaging John's closets, and brought out a dusty, Chinese-looking affair, which
she put on for a dressing-gown. She found some Chinese straw shoes, and tucked her little feet
into them, and then braided her hair in a long tail, and declared she was ready for dinner.
Her gayety was refreshing, and I did not wonder at John's admiration. My spirits rose, too,
and I astonished Leonora at the table with my chat; she had never seen me except when quiet.
I fell into one of those unselfish, unasking moods which are the glory of youth: I felt that
the pure heaven of love was in the depths of my being; my soul shone like a star in its atmosphere;
my heart throbbed, and I cried softly to it,--"Live! live! he is here!" I still chatted with
Leonora and made her laugh, and the child for the first time thoroughly liked me. We were finishing
our dessert, when we heard John's knock. We allowed him to come in for a moment, and gave him
some almonds, which, he leisurely cracked and ate.

"Somehow, Margaret," he said, "you remind me of those women who enjoy the Indian festival of
the funeral pile. I have seen the thing done; you have something of the sort in your mind;
be sure to immolate yourself handsomely. Women are the deuse."

"Finish your almonds, John," I said, "and go away; we must dress."

He put his hand on my arm, and whispered,--

"Smother that light in your eyes, my girl; it is dangerous. And you have lived under your mother's
eye all your life! You see what I have done,"--indicating Leonora with his eyebrows,--"taken
a baby on my hands."

"John, John!" I inwardly ejaculated, "you are an idiot."

"She shall never suffer what you suffer; she shall have the benefit of the experience which
other women have given me."

"Very likely," I answered; "I know we often serve you as pioneers merely."

He gave a sad nod, and I closed the door upon him.

"Put these pins into my hair, Leonora, and tell me, how do you like my new dress?"

"Paris!" she cried.

It was a dove-colored silk with a black velvet stripe through it. I showed her a shawl which
John had given me,--a pale-yellow gauzy fabric with a gold-thread border,--and told her to
make me up. She produced quite a marvellous effect; for this baby understood the art of dress
to perfection. She made my hair into a loose mass, rolling it away from my face; yet it was
firmly fastened. Then she shook out the shawl, and wrapped me in it, so that my head seemed
to be emerging from a pale-tinted cloud. John said I looked outlandish, but Leonora thought
otherwise. She begged him for some Indian perfume, and he found an aromatic powder, which she
sprinkled inside my gloves and over my shawl.

We found the opera-house crowded. Our seats were near the stage. John sat behind us, so that
he might slip out into the lobby occasionally; for the opera was a bore to him. The second
act was over; John had left his seat; I was opening and shutting my fan mechanically, half
lost in thought, when Leonora, who had been looking at the house with her lorgnette, turned
and said,--

"Is not that your friend of this morning, on the other side, in the second row, leaning against
the third pillar? There is a queenish-looking old lady with him. He hasn't spoken to her for
a long time, and she continually looks up at him."

I took her glass, and discovered Redmond. He looked back at me through another; I made a slight
motion with my handkerchief; he dropped his glass into the lap of the lady next him and darted
out, and in a moment he was behind me in John's seat.

"Who is with you?" he asked.

"Brother," I answered.

"You intoxicate me with some strange perfume; don't fan it this way."

I quietly passed the fan to Leonora, who now looked back and spoke to him. He talked with her
a moment, and then she discreetly resumed her lorgnette.

"What happened for two years after I left B.? The last year I know something of."

"Breakfast, dinner, and tea; the ebb and flow of the tide; and the days of the week."

"Nothing more?" And his voice came nearer.

"A few trifles."

"They are under lock and key, I suppose?"

"We do not carry relics about with us."

"There is the conductor; I must go. Turn your face toward me more."

I obeyed him, and our eyes met. His searching gaze made me shiver.

"I have been married," he said, and his eyes were unflinching, "and my wife is dead."

All the lights went down, I thought; I struck out my arm to find Leonora, who caught it and
pressed it down.

"I must get out," I said; and I walked up the alley to the door without stumbling.

I knew that I was fainting or dying; as I had never fainted, I did not know which. Redmond
carried me through the cloak-room and put me on a sofa.

"I never can speak to him again," I thought, and then I lost sight of them all.

A terribly sharp pain through my heart roused me, and I was in a violent chill. They had thrown
water over my face; my hair was matted, and the water was dripping from it on my naked shoulders.
The gloves had been ripped from my hands, and Leonora was wringing my handkerchief.

"The heat made you faint, dear," she said.

John was walking up and down the room with a phlegmatic countenance, but he was fuming.

"My new dress is ruined, John," I said.

"Hang the dress! How do you feel now?"

"It is drowned; and I feel better; shall we go home?"

He went out to order the carriage, and Leonora whispered to me that she had forgotten Redmond's
name.

"No matter," I answered. I could not have spoken it then.

When John came, Leonora beckoned to Redmond to introduce himself. John shook hands with him,
gave him an intent look, and told us the carriage was ready. Redmond followed us, and took
leave of us at the carriage-door.

Leonora begged me to stay at her house; I refused, for I wished to be alone. John deposited
her with her mother, and we drove home. He gave me one of his infallible medicines, and told
me not to get up in the morning. But when morning came, I remembered Harry Lothrop was coming,
and made myself ready for him. As human nature is not quite perfect, I felt unhappy about him,
and rather fond of him, and thought he possessed some admirable qualities. I never could read
the old poets any more without a pang, unless he were with me, directing my eye along their
pages with his long white finger! I never should smell tuberoses again without feeling faint,
unless they were his gift!

By the time he came I was in a state of romantic regret, and in that state many a woman has
answered, "Yes!" He asked me abruptly if I thought it would be folly in him to ask me to marry
him. The question turned the tide.

"No," I answered,--"not folly; for I have thought many times in the last two years, that I
should marry you, if you said I must. But now I believe that it is not best. You have pursued
me patiently; your self-love made the conquest of me a necessary pleasure. That was well enough
for me; for you made me feel all the while, that, if I loved you, you were worth possessing.
And you are. I like you. But my feeling for you did not prevent my fainting away at the opera-house
last night, when Redmond told me that his wife was dead."

"So," he said, "the long-smothered fire has broken out again! Chance does not befriend me.
He saw you last night, and yielded. He said yesterday he should not tell you. He asked me about
you after we left you, and wished to know if I had seen you much for the last year. I offered
him your last letter to read,--am I not generous?--but he refused it.

"'When I see her,' he asked, 'am I at liberty to say what I choose?'

"On that I could have said, 'No.' Redmond and I have not seen each other since the period of
my first visit to you. He has been nursing his wife in the mean time, taking journeys with
her, and trying all sorts of cures; and now he seems tied to his aunt and mother-in-law. He
was merely passing through the city with her, and this morning they have gone again.--Well,"
after a pause, "there is no need of words between us. I have in my possession a part of you.
Beautiful women are like flowers which open their leaves wide enough for their perfume to attract
wandering bees; the perfume is wasted, though the honey may be hid."

"Alas, what a lesson this man is giving me!" I thought.

"Farewell, then," he said. He bit his lips, and his clenched hands trembled; but he mastered
his emotion. "You must think of me."

"And see you, too," I answered. "Everything comes round again, if we live long enough. Dramatic
unities are never preserved in life; if they were, how poetical would all these things be!
But Time whirls us round, showing us our many-sided feelings as carelessly as a child rattles
the bits of glass in his kaleidoscope."

"So be it!" he replied. "Adieu!"

That afternoon I staid at home, and put John's room in order, and cleaned the dust from his
Indian idols, and was extremely busy till he came in. Then I kissed his whiskers, and told
him all my sins, and cried once or twice during my confession. He petted me a good deal, and
made me eat twice as much dinner as I wanted; he said it was good for me, and I obeyed him,
for I felt uncommonly meek that day.

Soon after, Redmond sent me a long letter. He said he had been, from a boy, under an obligation
to his aunt, the mother of his wife. It was a common story, and he would not trouble me with
it. He was married soon after Harry Lothrop's first visit to me, at the time they had received
the news of Laura's death. How much he had thought of Laura afterward, while he was watching
the fading away of his pale blossom! His aunt had been ill since the death of her daughter,
restless, and discontented with every change. He hoped she was now settled among some old friends
with whom she might find consolation. In conclusion, he wrote,--"My aunt noticed our hasty
exit from the opera-house that night, when I was brute enough to nearly kill you. I told her
that I loved you. She now feels, after a struggle, that she must let me go. 'Old women have
no rights,' she said to me yesterday. Margaret, may I come, and never leave you again?"

My answer may be guessed, for one day he arrived. It was the dusk of a cheery winter day, the
time when home wears so bright a look to those who seek it. It was an hour before dinner, and
I was waiting for John to come in. The amber evening sky gleamed before the windows, and the
fire made a red core of light in the room. John's sandal-wood boxes gave out strange odors
in the heat, and the pattern of the Persian rug was just visible. A servant came to the door
with a card. I held it to the grate, and the fire lit up his name.

"Show him up-stairs," I said.

I stood in the doorway, and heard his step on every stair. When he came, I took him by the
hand, and drew him into the room. He was speechless.

"Oh, Redmond, I love you! How long you were away!"

He kneeled by me, and put my arms round his neck, and we kissed each other with the first,
best kiss of passion.

John came in, and I reached out my hand to him and said, "This is my husband."

"That's comfortable," he answered. "Won't you stay to dinner?"

"Oh, yes," replied Redmond; "this is my hotel."

"I see," said John.

But after dinner they had a long talk together. John sent me to my room, and I was glad to
go. I walked up and down, crying, I must say, most of the time, asking forgiveness of myself
for my faults, and remembering Laura and Maurice,--and then thinking Redmond was mine, with
a contraction of the heart which threatened to stifle me.

John took us up to Leonora's that evening; he said he wanted to see if Puss would be tantalized
with the sight of such a beautiful romantic couple just from fairy-land, who were now prepared
"to live in peace."

We were married the next day in a church in a by-street. John was the only witness, and flourished
a large silk handkerchief, so that it had the effect of a triumphal banner. Redmond put the
ring on the wrong finger,--a mistake which the minister kindly rectified. All I had new for
the occasion was a pair of gloves.

One morning after my marriage, when Redmond and John were smoking together, I was turning over
some boxes, for I was packing to go home on a visit to our mother. I called Redmond to leave
his pipe and come to me.

"You have not seen any of my property. Look, here it is:--

"One bitten handkerchief.

"A fan never used.

"A gold pen-holder.

"A draggled shawl."

"Margaret," he said, taking my chin in his hand and bringing his eyes close to mine, "I am
wild with happiness."

"Your pipe has gone out," we heard John say.

THE MAROONS OF SURINAM.

CIRCUMSTANCE.

She had remained, during all that day, with a sick neighbor,--those eastern wilds of Maine
in that epoch frequently making neighbors and miles synonymous,--and so busy had she been with
care and sympathy that she did not at first observe the approaching night. But finally the
level rays, reddening the snow, threw their gleam upon the wall, and, hastily donning cloak
and hood, she bade her friends farewell and sallied forth on her return. Home lay some three
miles distant, across a copse, a meadow, and a piece of woods,--the woods being a fringe on
the skirts of the great forests that stretch far away into the North. That home was one of
a dozen log-houses lying a few furlongs apart from each other, with their half-cleared demesnes
separating them at the rear from a wilderness untrodden save by stealthy native or deadly panther
tribes.

She was in a nowise exalted frame of spirit,--on the contrary, rather depressed by the pain
she had witnessed and the fatigue she had endured; but in certain temperaments such a condition
throws open the mental pores, so to speak, and renders one receptive of every influence. Through
the little copse she walked slowly, with her cloak folded about her, lingering to imbibe the
sense of shelter, the sunset filtered in purple through the mist of woven spray and twig, the
companionship of growth not sufficiently dense to band against her the sweet home-feeling of
a young and tender wintry wood. It was therefore just on the edge of the evening that she emerged
from the place and began to cross the meadow-land. At one hand lay the forest to which her
path wound; at the other the evening star hung over a tide of failing orange that slowly slipped
down the earth's broad side to sadden other hemispheres with sweet regret. Walking rapidly
now, and with her eyes wide-open, she distinctly saw in the air before her what was not there
a moment ago, a winding-sheet,--cold, white, and ghastly, waved by the likeness of four wan
hands,--that rose with a long inflation and fell in rigid folds, while a voice, shaping itself
from the hollowness above, spectral and melancholy, sighed,--"The Lord have mercy on the people!
The Lord have mercy on the people!" Three times the sheet with its corpse-covering outline
waved beneath the pale hands, and the voice, awful in its solemn and mysterious depth, sighed,
"The Lord have mercy on the people!" Then all was gone, the place was clear again, the gray
sky was obstructed by no deathly blot; she looked about her, shook her shoulders decidedly,
and, pulling on her hood, went forward once more.

She might have been a little frightened by such an apparition, if she had led a life of less
reality than frontier settlers are apt to lead; but dealing with hard fact does not engender
a flimsy habit of mind, and this woman was too sincere and earnest in her character, and too
happy in her situation, to be thrown by antagonism merely upon superstitious fancies and chimeras
of the second-sight. She did not even believe herself subject to an hallucination, but smiled
simply, a little vexed that her thought could have framed such a glamour from the day's occurrences,
and not sorry to lift the bough of the warder of the woods and enter and disappear in their
sombre path. If she had been imaginative, she would have hesitated at her first step into a
region whose dangers were not visionary; but I suppose that the thought of a little child at
home would conquer that propensity in the most habituated. So, biting a bit of spicy birch,
she went along. Now and then she came to a gap where the trees had been partially felled, and
here she found that the lingering twilight was explained by that peculiar and perhaps electric
film which sometimes sheathes the sky in diffused light for very many hours before a brilliant
aurora. Suddenly, a swift shadow, like the fabulous flying-dragon, writhed through the air
before her, and she felt herself instantly seized and borne aloft. It was that wild beast--the
most savage and serpentine and subtle and fearless of our latitudes--known by hunters as the
Indian Devil, and he held her in his clutches on the broad floor of a swinging fir-bough. His
long sharp claws were caught in her clothing, he worried them sagaciously a little, then, finding
that ineffectual to free them, he commenced licking her bare white arm with his rasping tongue
and pouring over her the wide streams of his hot, fetid breath. So quick had this flashing
action been that the woman had had no time for alarm; moreover, she was not of the screaming
kind; but now, as she felt him endeavoring to disentangle his claws, and the horrid sense of
her fate smote her, and she saw instinctively the fierce plunge of those weapons, the long
strips of living flesh torn from her bones, the agony, the quivering disgust, itself a worse
agony,--while by her side, and holding her in his great lithe embrace, the monster crouched,
his white tusks whetting and gnashing, his eyes glaring through all the darkness like balls
of red fire,--a shriek, that rang in every forest hollow, that startled every winter-housed
thing, that stirred and woke the least needle of the tasselled pines, tore through her lips.
A moment afterward, the beast left the arm, once white, now crimson, and looked up alertly.

She did not think at this instant to call upon God. She called upon her husband. It seemed
to her that she had but one friend in the world; that was he; and again the cry, loud, clear,
prolonged, echoed through the woods. It was not the shriek that disturbed the creature at his
relish; he was not born in the woods to be scared of an owl, you know; what then? It mast have
been the echo, most musical, most resonant, repeated and yet repeated, dying with long sighs
of sweet sound, vibrated from rock to river and back again from depth to depth of cave and
cliff. Her thought flew after it; she knew, that, even if her husband heard it, he yet could
not reach her in time; she saw that while the beast listened he would not gnaw,--and this she
felt directly, when the rough, sharp, and multiplied stings of his tongue retouched her arm.
Again her lips opened by instinct, but the sound that issued thence came by reason. She had
heard that music charmed wild beasts,--just this point between life and death intensified every
faculty,--and when she opened her lips the third time, it was not for shrieking, but for singing.

A little thread of melody stole out, a rill of tremulous motion; it was the cradle-song with
which she rocked her baby;--how could she sing that? And then she remembered the baby sleeping
rosily on the long settee before the fire,--the father cleaning his gun, with one foot on the
green wooden rundle,--the merry light from the chimney dancing out and through the room, on
the rafters of the ceiling with their tassels of onions and herbs, on the log walls painted
with lichens and festooned with apples, on the king's-arm slung across the shelf with the old
pirate's-cutlass, on the snow-pile of the bed, and on the great brass clock,--dancing, too,
and lingering on the baby, with his fringed gentian eyes, his chubby fists clenched on the
pillow, and his fine breezy hair fanning with the motion of his father's foot. All this struck
her in one, and made a sob of her breath, and she ceased.

Immediately the long red tongue was thrust forth again. Before it touched, a song sprang to
her lips, a wild sea-song, such as some sailor might be singing far out on trackless blue water
that night, the shrouds whistling with frost and the sheets glued in ice,--a song with the
wind in its burden and the spray in its chorus. The monster raised his head and flared the
fiery eyeballs upon her, then fretted the imprisoned claws a moment and was quiet; only the
breath like the vapor from some hell-pit still swathed her. Her voice, at first faint and fearful,
gradually lost its quaver, grew under her control and subject to her modulation; it rose on
long swells, it fell in subtile cadences, now and then its tones pealed out like bells from
distant belfries on fresh sonorous mornings. She sung the song through, and, wondering lest
his name of Indian Devil were not his true name, and if he would not detect her, she repeated
it. Once or twice now, indeed, the beast stirred uneasily, turned, and made the bough sway
at his movement. As she ended, he snapped his jaws together, and tore away the fettered member,
curling it under him with a snarl,--when she burst into the gayest reel that ever answered
a fiddle-bow. How many a time she had heard her husband play it on the homely fiddle made by
himself from birch and cherry-wood! how many a time she had seen it danced on the floor of
their one room, to the patter of wooden clogs and the rustle of homespun petticoat! how many
a time she had danced it herself!--and did she not remember once, as they joined clasps for
right-hands-round, how it had lent its gay, bright measure to her life? And here she was singing
it alone, in the forest, at midnight, to a wild beast! As she sent her voice trilling up and
down its quick oscillations between joy and pain, the creature who grasped her uncurled his
paw and scratched the bark from the bough; she must vary the spell; and her voice spun leaping
along the projecting points of tune of a hornpipe. Still singing, she felt herself twisted
about with a low growl and a lifting of the red lip from the glittering teeth; she broke the
hornpipe's thread, and commenced unravelling a lighter, livelier thing, an Irish jig. Up and
down and round about her voice flew, the beast threw back his head so that the diabolical face
fronted hers, and the torrent of his breath prepared her for his feast as the anaconda slimes
his prey. Franticly she darted from tune to tune; his restless movements followed her. She
tired herself with dancing and vivid national airs, growing feverish and singing spasmodically
as she felt her horrid tomb yawning wider. Touching in this manner all the slogan and keen
clan cries, the beast moved again, but only to lay the disengaged paw across her with heavy
satisfaction. She did not dare to pause; through the clear cold air, the frosty starlight,
she sang. If there were yet any tremor in the tone, it was not fear,--she had learned the secret
of sound at last; nor could it be chill,--far too high a fervor throbbed her pulses; it was
nothing but the thought of the log-house and of what might be passing within it. She fancied
the baby stirring in his sleep and moving his pretty lips,--her husband rising and opening
the door, looking out after her, and wondering at her absence. She fancied the light pouring
through the chink and then shut in again with all the safety and comfort and joy, her husband
taking down the fiddle and playing lightly with his head inclined, playing while she sang,
while she sang for her life to an Indian Devil. Then she knew he was fumbling for and finding
some shining fragment and scoring it down the yellowing hair, and unconsciously her voice forsook
the wild war-tunes and drifted into the half-gay, half-melancholy Rosin the Bow.

Suddenly she woke pierced with a pang, and the daggered tooth penetrating her flesh;--dreaming
of safety, she had ceased singing and lost it. The beast had regained the use of all his limbs,
and now, standing and raising his back, bristling and foaming, with sounds that would have
been like hisses but for their deep and fearful sonority, he withdrew step by step toward the
trunk of the tree, still with his flaming balls upon her. She was all at once free, on one
end of the bough, twenty feet from the ground. She did not measure the distance, but rose to
drop herself down, careless of any death, so that it were not this. Instantly, as if he scanned
her thoughts, the creature bounded forward with a yell and caught her again in his dreadful
hold. It might be that he was not greatly famished; for, as she suddenly flung up her voice
again, he settled himself composedly on the bough, still clasping her with invincible pressure
to his rough, ravenous breast, and listening in a fascination to the sad, strange U-la-lu that
now moaned forth in loud, hollow tones above him. He half closed his eyes, and sleepily reopened
and shut them again.

What rending pains were close at hand! Death! and what a death! worse than any other that is
to be named! Water, be it cold or warm, that which buoys up blue ice-fields, or which bathes
tropical coasts with currents of balmy bliss, is yet a gentle conqueror, kisses as it kills,
and draws you down gently through darkening fathoms to its heart. Death at the sword is the
festival of trumpet and bugle and banner, with glory ringing out around you and distant hearts
thrilling through yours. No gnawing disease can bring such hideous end as this; for that is
a fiend bred of your own flesh, and this--is it a fiend, this living lump of appetites? What
dread comes with the thought of perishing in flames! but fire, let it leap and hiss never so
hotly, is something too remote, too alien, to inspire us with such loathly horror as a wild
beast; if it have a life, that life is too utterly beyond our comprehension. Fire is not half
ourselves; as it devours, arouses neither hatred nor disgust; is not to be known by the strength
of our lower natures let loose; does not drip our blood into our faces from foaming chaps,
nor mouth nor snarl above us with vitality. Let us be ended by fire, and we are ashes, for
the winds to bear, the leaves to cover; let us be ended by wild beasts, and the base, cursed
thing howls with us forever through the forest. All this she felt as she charmed him, and what
force it lent to her song God knows. If her voice should fail! If the damp and cold should
give her any fatal hoarseness! If all the silent powers of the forest did not conspire to help
her! The dark, hollow night rose indifferently over her; the wide, cold air breathed rudely
past her, lifted her wet hair and blew it down again; the great boughs swung with a ponderous
strength, now and then clashed their iron lengths together and shook off a sparkle of icy spears
or some long-lain weight of snow from their heavy shadows. The green depths were utterly cold
and silent and stern. These beautiful haunts that all the summer were hers and rejoiced to
share with her their bounty, these heavens that had yielded their largess, these stems that
had thrust their blossoms into her hands, all these friends of three moons ago forgot her now
and knew her no longer.

Feeling her desolation, wild, melancholy, forsaken songs rose thereon from that frightful aerie,--weeping,
wailing tunes, that sob among the people from age to age, and overflow with otherwise unexpressed
sadness,--all rude, mournful ballads,--old tearful strains, that Shakspeare heard the vagrants
sing, and that rise and fall like the wind and tide,--sailor-songs, to be heard only in lone
mid-watches beneath the moon and stars,--ghastly rhyming romances, such as that famous one
of the "Lady Margaret," when

"She slipped on her gown of green
   A piece below the knee,--
And 'twas all a long, cold winter's night
   A dead corse followed she."

Still the beast lay with closed eyes, yet never relaxing his grasp. Once a half-whine of enjoyment
escaped him,--he fawned his fearful head upon her; once he scored her cheek with his tongue:
savage caresses that hurt like wounds. How weary she was! and yet how terribly awake! How fuller
and fuller of dismay grew the knowledge that she was only prolonging her anguish and playing
with death! How appalling the thought that with her voice ceased her existence! Yet she could
not sing forever; her throat was dry and hard; her very breath was a pain; her mouth was hotter
than any desert-worn pilgrim's;--if she could but drop upon her burning tongue one atom of
the ice that glittered about her!--but both of her arms were pinioned in the giant's vice.
She remembered the winding-sheet, and for the first time in her life shivered with spiritual
fear. Was it hers? She asked herself, as she sang, what sins she had committed, what life she
had led, to find her punishment so soon and in these pangs,--and then she sought eagerly for
some reason why her husband was not up and abroad to find her. He failed her,--her one sole
hope in life; and without being aware of it, her voice forsook the songs of suffering and sorrow
for old Covenanting hymns,--hymns with which her mother had lulled her, which the class-leader
pitched in the chimney-corners,--grand and sweet Methodist hymns, brimming with melody and
with all fantastic involutions of tune to suit that ecstatic worship,--hymns full of the beauty
of holiness, steadfast, relying, sanctified by the salvation they had lent to those in worse
extremity than hers,--for they had found themselves in the grasp of hell, while she was but
in the jaws of death. Out of this strange music, peculiar to one character of faith, and than
which there is none more beautiful in its degree nor owning a more potent sway of sound, her
voice soared into the glorified chants of churches. What to her was death by cold or famine
or wild beasts? "Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him," she sang. High and clear through
the frore fair night, the level moonbeams splintering in the wood, the scarce glints of stars
in the shadowy roof of branches, these sacred anthems rose,--rose as a hope from despair, as
some snowy spray of flower-bells from blackest mould. Was she not in God's hands? Did not the
world swing at His will? If this were in His great plan of providence, was it not best, and
should she not accept it?

"He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth."

Oh, sublime faith of our fathers, where utter self-sacrifice alone was true love, the fragrance
of whose unrequired subjection was pleasant as that of golden censers swung in purple-vapored
chancels!

Never ceasing in the rhythm of her thoughts, articulated in music as they thronged, the memory
of her first communion flashed over her. Again she was in that distant place on that sweet
spring morning. Again the congregation rustled out, and the few remained, and she trembled
to find herself among them.

How well she remembered the devout, quiet faces; too accustomed to the sacred feast to glow
with their inner joy! how well the snowy linen at the altar, the silver vessels slowly and
silently shifting! and as the cup approached and passed, how the sense of delicious perfume
stole in and heightened the transport of her prayer, and she had seemed, looking up through
the windows where the sky soared blue in constant freshness, to feel all heaven's balms dripping
from the portals, and to scent the lilies of eternal peace! Perhaps another would not have
felt so much ecstasy as satisfaction on that occasion; but it is a true, if a later disciple,
who has said, "The Lord bestoweth his blessings there, where he findeth the vessels empty."--"And
does it need the walls of a church to renew my communion?" she asked. "Does not every moment
stand a temple four-square to God? And in that morning, with its buoyant sunlight, was I any
dearer to the Heart of the World than now?" "My beloved is mine, and I am his," she sang over
and over again, with all varied inflection and profuse tune. How gently all the winter-wrapt
things bent toward her then! into what relation with her had they grown! how this common dependence
was the spell of their intimacy! how at one with Nature had she become! how all the night and
the silence and the forest seemed to hold its breath, and to send its soul up to God in her
singing! It was no longer despondency, that singing. It was neither prayer nor petition. She
had left imploring, "How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord?" "Lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep
the sleep of death!" "For in death there is no remembrance of thee";--with countless other
such fragments of supplication.

Then she thought of the Great Deliverance, when he drew her up out of many waters, and the
flashing old psalm pealed forth triumphantly:--

"The Lord descended from above,
  and bow'd the heavens hie;
And underneath his feet he cast
  the darknesse of the skie.
On cherubs and on cherubins
  full royally he road:
And on the wings of all the winds
  came flying all abroad." "O Lord, thou preservest man and
beast!" she said.

She had no comfort or consolation in this season, such as sustained the Christian martyrs in
the amphitheatre.

What whisper of dawn now rustled through the wilderness? How the night was passing! And still
the beast crouched upon the bough, changing only the posture of his head, that again he might
command her with those charmed eyes;--half their fire was gone; she could almost have released
herself from his custody; yet, had she stirred, no one knows what malevolent instinct might
have dominated anew. But of that she did not dream; long ago stripped of any expectation, she
was experiencing in her divine rapture how mystically true it is that "he that dwelleth in
the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty."

Slow clarion cries now wound from the distance as the cocks caught the intelligence of day
and reechoed it faintly from farm to farm,--sleepy sentinels of night, sounding the foe's invasion,
and translating that dim intuition to ringing notes of warning. Still she chanted on. A remote
crash of brushwood told of some other beast on his depredations, or some night-belated traveller
groping his way through the narrow path. Still she chanted on. The far, faint echoes of the
chanticleers died into distance,--the crashing of the branches grew nearer. No wild beast that,
but a man's step,--a man's form in the moonlight, stalwart and strong,--on one arm slept a
little child, in the other hand he held his gun. Still she chanted on.

Perhaps, when her husband last looked forth, he was half ashamed to find what a fear he felt
for her. He knew she would never leave the child so long but for some direst need,--and yet
he may have laughed at himself, as he lifted and wrapped it with awkward care, and, loading
his gun and strapping on his horn, opened the door again and closed it behind him, going out
and plunging into the darkness and dangers of the forest. He was more singularly alarmed than
he would have been willing to acknowledge; as he had sat with his bow hovering over the strings,
he had half believed to hear her voice mingling gayly with the instrument, till he paused and
listened if she were not about to lift the latch and enter. Some mad exclamation escaped him,
but without diverting her. The child knew the singing voice, though never heard before in that
unearthly key, and turned toward it through the veiling dreams. With a celerity almost instantaneous,
it lay, in the twinkling of an eye, on the ground at the father's feet, while his gun was raised
to his shoulder and levelled at the monster covering his wife with shaggy form and flaming
gaze,--his wife so ghastly white, so rigid, so stained with blood, her eyes so fixedly bent
above, and her lips, that had indurated into the chiselled pallor of marble, parted only with
that flood of solemn song.

I do not know if it were the mother-instinct that for a moment lowered her eyes,--those eyes,
so lately riveted on heaven, now suddenly seeing all life-long bliss possible. A thrill of
joy pierced and shivered through her like a weapon, her voice trembled in its course, her glance
lost its steady strength, fever-flushes chased each other over her face, yet she never once
ceased chanting. She was quite aware, that, if her husband shot now, the ball must pierce her
body before reaching any vital part of the beast,--and yet better that death, by his hand,
than the other. But this her husband also knew, and he remained motionless, just covering the
creature with the sight. He dared not fire, lest some wound not mortal should break the spell
exercised by her voice, and the beast, enraged with pain, should rend her in atoms; moreover,
the light was too uncertain for his aim. So he waited. Now and then he examined his gun to
see if the damp were injuring its charge, now and then he wiped the great drops from his forehead.
Again the cocks crowed with the passing hour,--the last time they were heard on that night.
Cheerful home sound then, how full of safety and all comfort and rest it seemed! what sweet
morning incidents of sparkling fire and sunshine, of gay household bustle, shining dresser,
and cooing baby, of steaming cattle in the yard, and brimming milk-pails at the door! what
pleasant voices! what laughter! what security! and here----

Now, as she sang on in the slow, endless, infinite moments, the fervent vision of God's peace
was gone. Just as the grave had lost its sting, she was snatched back again into the arms of
earthly hope. In vain she tried to sing, "There remaineth a rest for the people of God,"--her
eyes trembled on her husband's, and she could think only of him, and of the child, and of happiness
that yet might be, but with what a dreadful gulf of doubt between! She shuddered now in the
suspense; all calm forsook her; she was tortured with dissolving heats or frozen with icy blasts;
her face contracted, growing small and pinched; her voice was hoarse and sharp,--every tone
cut like a knife,--the notes became heavy to lift,--withheld by some hostile pressure,--impossible.
One gasp, a convulsive effort, and there was silence,--she had lost her voice.

The beast made a sluggish movement,--stretched and fawned like one awaking,--then, as if he
would have yet more of the enchantment, stirred her slightly with his muzzle. As he did so,
a sidelong hint of the man standing below with the raised gun smote him; he sprung round furiously,
and, seizing his prey, was about to leap into some unknown airy den of the topmost branches
now waving to the slow dawn. The late moon had rounded through the sky so that her gleam at
last fell full upon the bough with fairy frosting; the wintry morning light did not yet penetrate
the gloom. The woman, suspended in mid-air an instant, cast only one agonized glance beneath,--but
across and through it, ere the lids could fall, shot a withering sheet of flame,--a rifle-crack,
half heard, was lost in the terrible yell of desperation that bounded after it and filled her
ears with savage echoes, and in the wide arc of some eternal descent she was falling;--but
the beast fell under her. I think that the moment following must have been too sacred for us,
and perhaps the three have no special interest again till they issue from the shadows of the
wilderness upon the white hills that skirt their home. The father carries the child hushed
again into slumber; the mother follows with no such feeble step as might be anticipated,--and
as they slowly climb the steep under the clear gray sky and the paling morning star, she stops
to gather a spray of the red-rose berries or a feathery tuft of dead grasses for the chimney-piece
of the log-house, or a handful of brown ones for the child's play,--and of these quiet, happy
folk you would scarcely dream how lately they had stolen from under the banner and encampment
of the great King Death. The husband proceeds a step or two in advance; the wife lingers over
a singular foot-print in the snow, stoops and examines it, then looks up with a hurried word.
Her husband stands alone on the hill, his arms folded across the babe, his gun fallen,--stands
defined against the pallid sky like a bronze. What is there in their home, lying below and
yellowing in the light, to fix him with such a stare? She springs to his side. There is no
home there. The log-house, the barns, the neighboring farms, the fences, are all blotted out
and mingled in one smoking ruin. Desolation and death were indeed there, and beneficence and
life in the forest. Tomahawk and scalping-knife, descending during that night, had left behind
them only this work of their accomplished hatred and one subtle foot-print in the snow.

For the rest,--the world was all before them, where to choose.

       *       *       *       *       *

URANIA.

Hast thou forgotten whose thou art?
  To what high service consecrate?
I gave thee not a noble heart
  To wed with such ignoble fate.

I found thee where the laurels grow
  Around the lonely Delphian shrine;
There, where the sacred fountains flow,
  I found thee, and I made thee mine.

I gave thy soul to agony,
  And strange unsatisfied desire,
That thou mightst dearer be to me,
  And worthier of thy burning lyre.

O child, thy fate had made thee God,
  To thee such powers divine were given;
The paths of fire thou mightst have trod
  Had led thee to the stars of heaven.

And those who in the early dawn
  Of beauty sat and sang of day,
Deep in their twilight shades withdrawn,
  Had heard thy coming far away,--

With haunting music sweet and strange,
  And airs ambrosial blown before,
Vague breathings of the floral change
  That glorifies the hills of yore:

Had felt the joy those only find
  Who in their secret souls have known
The mystery of the poet mind
  That through all beauty feels its own:

Had felt the God within them rise
  To meet thy radiant soul divine;
Had searched with their prophetic eyes
  The midnight luminous of thine.

So fondly did Urania deem!
  So proudly did she prophesy!
Oh, ruin of a noble dream
  She thought too glorious to die!

Nor knew thy passionate songs of yore
  Were as a promise unfulfilled,--
A stately portal set before
  The palace thou shall never build!

For is it come to this, at last?
  And thou forever must remain
A godlike statue, formed and cast
  In marble attitude of pain,--

Proud lips that in their scorn are mute,
  And haunting eyes of anguished love,
One hand that grasps a silent lute,
  And one convulsed hand above

That will not strike? Ah, scorn and shame!
  Shame for the apostate unforgiven,
Beholding an unconquered fame
  In undiscovered fields of heaven!

For Beauty not by one alone
  In her completeness is revealed:
The smiles and tears her face hath shown
  To thee from others are concealed.

Men see not in the midnight sky
  All miracles she worketh there:
It is the blindness of the eye
  That paints its darkness on the air.

Two friends who wander by the shore
  Look not upon the selfsame seas,
Hearing two voices in the roar,
  Because of different memories.

For him whose love the sea hath drowned,
  It moans the music of his wrong;
For him whose life with love is crowned,
  It breaks upon the beach in song.

So dreaming not another's dream,
  But still interpreting thine own,
By woodland wild and quiet stream
  Thou wanderest in the world alone.

Then what thou slayest none can save:
  Silent and dark oblivion rolls
Over the glory in the grave
  Of fierce and suicidal souls.

From that dark wave no pleading ghost
  With pointing hand shall ever rise,
To say,--The world hath treasure lost,
  And here the buried treasure lies!

Beware, and yet beware! my fear
  Unfolds a vision in the gloom
Of Beauty borne upon her bier,
  And Darkness crouching in the tomb.

Beware, and yet beware! her end
  Is thine; or else, her shadowy hearse
Beside, thy spirit shall descend
  The vast sepulchral universe,

And, with the passion that remains
  In desolated hearts, implore
The spectre sitting bound in chains
  To yield what he shall not restore:--

The mystery whose soul divine
  Breathed love, and only love, on thee;
Which better far had not been thine,
  Than, having been, to cease to be.

MARY SOMERVILLE.

There have been in every age a few women of genius who have become the successful rivals of
man in the paths which they have severally chosen. Three instances are of our time. Mrs. Browning
is called a poet even by poets; the artists admit that Rosa Bonheur is a painter; and the mathematicians
accord to Mary Somerville a high rank among themselves.

"In pure mathematics," said Humboldt, "Mrs. Somerville is strong." Of no other woman of the
age could the remark have been made; and this would probably be true, were the walks of science
as marked by the feminine footprint as are those of literature. To read mathematical works
is an easy task; the formula can be learned and their meaning apprehended: to read the most
profound of them, with such appreciation that one stands side by side with the great minds
who originated them, requires a higher order of intellect; and far-reaching indeed is that
which, pondering in the study on a few phenomena known by observation, develops the theory
of worlds, traces back for ages their history, and sketches the outline of their future destiny.

Caroline Herschel, the sister of Sir William, was doubtless gifted with much of the Herschel
talent, and, under other circumstances, her mind might have turned to original research; but
she belonged rather to the last century, and Hanover was not a region favorable to intellectual
efforts in her sex. She lived the life of a simple-hearted, truth-loving woman; most worthy
of the name she bore, she made notes for her brother, she swept the heavens and found comets
for him, she computed and tabulated his observations; it seems never to have occurred to her
to be other than the patient, helping sister of a truly great man.

Mrs. Somerville's life has been more individual. She is the daughter of Admiral Fairfax, and
was born in Fifeshire, Scotland, December 26, 1780, in the house of her uncle, the father of
her present husband.

The home training and the school education of the daughters of Great Britain are very unlike
those of their American sisters. The manners and customs of the Old World change so slowly,
that one can scarcely assent to a remark made by Sir John Herschel:--"The Englishman sticks
to his old ways, but is not cemented to them." The Englishwoman submits to authority from her
infancy; belonging to the middle class, she does not expect the higher education of the nobility;
a woman, she is not supposed to desire to enter into the studies of her brothers. A governess,
generally the daughter of a curate, who prefers this position to that of "companion" to a fine
lady, is provided for her in her early years. If the choice be fortunate and the parents watchful,
the young girl is thoroughly taught in a few branches of what are commonly considered feminine
studies. She learns to read and to speak French; tutors are employed for music and drawing:
every young lady above the rank of the tradesman's daughter plays well upon the piano; every
one has her portfolio of drawings, in which sketches from Nature can always be found, and frequently
the family portraits. The history of the country is considered a study suitable for girls;
the Englishman expects that his daughter shall know something of the past, of which he is so
justly proud.

But the more solid book-learning given to the girls of New England, even in the public schools,
is known only to the daughters of the higher classes, and among them an instance like that
of Lady Jane Grey could scarcely now be found. As the girls and boys are never taught in the
same schools, no taste is aroused by the example of manly studies. An English girl is astonished
to hear that an American girl passes a public examination, like her brothers, and with them
competes for prizes; she doubts the truthfulness of some of the representations of life found
in American novels; and so little is the freedom of manners understood, that the American traveller
is frequently asked,--"Can it really be as Mrs. Stowe represents in America? Does a young lady
really give a party herself?"

The difference that one would expect is found between the women of England or Scotland and
the women of New England. The young Englishwoman is tasteful and elegant, mindful of all the
proprieties and graces of social life; she speaks slowly and cautiously, and gives her opinions
with great modesty. These are not at present the characteristics of the American girl.

Mary Fairfax passed through the usual routine. At fourteen she had read the books to be found
in her father's house, including the few works on Navigation which were necessary to him in
his profession. She had thus obtained an idea of the world of science, and it was dull to return
to worsted-work for amusement. The needle, which has been the fetter of so many women, became,
however, in her hand, magnetic, and pointed her to her destiny. She was in the habit of taking
her work into her brother's study, and listening to his recitations; the revelations of Geometry
were thus opened to her; she listened and worked for a time, until the desire to know more
of this region of form and law, of harmony and of relations, became too strong to be resisted;
the worsted was thrown aside, and she ventured to ask the tutor to instruct her. The honest
man told her that he was no mathematician: he could lend her Euclid, but he could do no more.

The first great step was now taken; Euclid was quickly read; other books were borrowed from
other friends; Bonnycastle's and Euler's Algebra were obtained, and she exulted in the use
of those mystic symbols, x, y, and z. Her parents looked on with indifference; so that the
music were not neglected and the governess reported well of her studies, they felt there was
no harm in her amusing herself as she chose. When the days of the governess were over, the
young lady "came out" in Edinburgh, and mingled much with the best society. This most picturesque
city had long been the resort of the most gifted minds; men of literature and men of science
made the charm of its winter life. Never was it more the gathering-place of intellect than
in the early part of this century; but there was no room for a woman of genius, and the young
girl's friends advised her to conceal her pursuits. Move as quietly, however, and as unobtrusively
as she might in the brilliant circle, her genius was not without recognition. There was a word
of encouragement from Professor Playfair. "Persevere in your study," said he; "it will be a
source of happiness to you when all else fails; for it is the study of truth." She had a champion,
too, in the dreaded critic, Jeffrey. "I am told," said a friend, writing to him, "that the
ladies of Edinburgh are literary, and that one of them sets up as a blue-stocking and an astronomer."
"The lady of whom you speak," replied Jeffrey, "may wear blue stockings, but her petticoats
are so long that I have never seen them."

Mrs. Somerville has been twice married. Her first husband, a gentleman of the name of Greig,
regarded her pursuits as her parents had, simply with indifference. Dr. Somerville, her present
husband, has taken the utmost pains to secure her time for her studies, and has himself relieved
her from many household cares.

The simplicity of character which belonged to her in early life was not lost when her reputation
became established. The Royal Society, whose doors do not open at every knock, admitted her
to membership, and, by their order, her bust was sculptured by Chantrey, and now adorns the
hall of the Society in Somerset House. During the sittings for this purpose, a lady, a friend
of the sculptor, him to introduce her to Mrs. Somerville. Chantrey consented, and made a dinner-party
for the purpose. The two ladies were placed side by side at table, and the benevolent artist
rejoiced to perceive, from the flow of talk, that they were mutually pleased. The next day,
to his astonishment, his friend called on him in a state of great indignation, believing herself
the victim of a practical joke. "How could you do so?" said she. "You knew that I did not want
to know that Mrs. Somerville; I wanted to know the astronomer: that lady talked of the theatre,
the opera, and common things."

The anecdote so often told of Laplace's compliment is literally true. Mrs. Somerville dined
with this great geometer in Paris. "I write books," said Laplace, "that no one can read. Only
two women have ever read the 'Mecanique Celeste'; both are Scotch women: Mrs. Greig and yourself."

Upon the "Mecanique Celeste" Mrs. Somerville's greatest work is founded. "I simply translated
Laplace's work," said she, "from algebra into common language." That is, she did what very
few men and no other woman could do. It is of this work of Laplace that Bonaparte said, "I
will give to it my first six months of leisure." The student who reads it by the aid of Dr.
Bowditch's notes has little idea of the difficulties to be met in the original work. Even Dr.
Bowditch himself said, "I never come across one of Laplace's 'Thus it plainly appears,' without
feeling sure that I have got hours of hard study before me, to fill up the chasm and show how
it plainly appears."

This "translation into common language" was undertaken at the request of Lord Brougham, who
desired a mathematical work suited to the "Library of Useful Knowledge." The manuscript was
submitted to Sir John Herschel, who expressed himself "delighted with it,--that it was a book
for posterity, but quite above the class for which Lord Brougham's course was intended." It
was published at once, and became the text-book for the students of Cambridge.

"The Connection of the Physical Sciences" and the "Physical Geography" are the later works
of Mrs. Somerville. These volumes have probably been more read in our country than in Europe;
for it is a common remark of the scientific writers of Great Britain, that their "readers are
found in the United States." They contain vast collections of facts in all branches of Physical
Science, connected together by the delicate web of Mrs. Somerville's own thought, showing an
amount and variety of learning to be compared only to that of Humboldt.

Provided with an "open sesame" to her heart, in the shape of a letter from her old friend,
Lady Herschel, we sought the acquaintance of Mrs. Somerville in the spring of 1858. She was
at that time residing in Florence, and, sending the letter and a card to her by the servant,
we awaited the reply in the large Florentine parlor, in the fireplace of which a wood-fire
blazed, suggestive of English comfort,--a suggestion which in Italy rarely becomes a reality.

There was the usual delay; then a footstep came slowly through the outer room, and a very old
man, exceedingly tall, with a red silk handkerchief around his head, entered, and introduced
himself as Doctor Somerville. He is proud of his wife; a pardonable weakness in any man, especially
so in the husband of Mary Somerville. He began at once to talk of her. When Mrs. Somerville's
father, as Lieutenant Fairfax, was ordered to America, General Washington wrote to him as a
family relative, and invited him to his house. Lieutenant Fairfax applied to his commanding
officer for leave to accept the invitation, and it was refused; they never met.

At this time, Mrs. Somerville was re-writing her "Physical Geography." She said that she worked
as well as when she was younger, but was more quickly fatigued; yet, in order to gain time,
she had given up her afternoon nap, without apparent injury to her health. Her working hours
were in the morning, and she never refused a visitor after noon. For her first work she said
she computed a good deal; and here she stepped quickly into an adjoining room, and brought
out a mass of manuscript computations made for that work, the mere sight of which would give
a headache to most women. The conversation was rather of the familiar and chatty order, and
marked by great simplicity. She touched upon the recent discoveries in chemical science,--upon
California, its gold and its consequences, some good from which she thought would be found
in the improvement of seamanship,--on the nebulae, more and more of which she thought would
be resolved, while yet there might exist irresolvable nebulous matter, such as composed the
tails of comets, or the satellites of the planets, which she thought had other uses than as
their subordinates. Of Doctor Whewell's attempt to prove that our planet is the only one inhabited
she spoke with disapprobation; she said she believed that the other planets might be inhabited
by beings of a higher order than ourselves.

On subsequent visits, Mrs. Somerville had much to say of the Americans. She regretted that
she so rarely received scientific articles from America; the papers of Lieutenant Maury alone
reached her. She spoke of the late Doctor Bowditch with great interest, and said she had had
some correspondence with one of his sons; of Professor Peirce as a great mathematician; and
she was much interested in the successful photography of the stars by Mr. Whipple. To a traveller,
thousands of miles from home, the mere mention of familiar names is cheering.

Mrs. Somerville resides in Florence on account of the health of her husband. A little garden,
well-stocked with rose-bushes, which she shows with great pride to her visitors, furnishes
her with a means of healthy recreation after her severe studies. Her children are a son by
Mr. Greig and two daughters by Doctor Somerville. In early life, Mrs. Somerville was a fine
musician: the daughters have inherited this talent; and having lived long in Florence, they
speak Italian with a perfect accent. "I speak Italian," said Mrs. Somerville; "but no one could
ever take me for other than a Scotchwoman."

No one can make the acquaintance of this remarkable woman without increased admiration for her.

ROBA DI ROMA.

MAY IN ROME.

May has come again,--"the delicate-footed May," her feet hidden in flowers as she wanders over
the Campagna, and the cool breeze of the Campagna blowing back her loosened hair. She calls
to us from the open fields to leave the wells of damp churches and shadowy streets, and to
come abroad and meet her where the mountains look down from roseate heights of vanishing snow
upon plains of waving grain. The hedges have put on their best draperies of leaves and flowers,
and, girdled in at their waist by double osier bands, stagger luxuriantly along the road like
a drunken Bacchanal procession, crowned with festive ivy, and holding aloft their snowy clusters
of elder-blossoms like thyrsi. Among their green robes may be seen thousands of beautiful wild-flowers,--the
sweet-scented laurustinus, all sorts of running vetches and wild sweet-pea, the delicate vases
of dewy morning-glories, clusters of eglantine or sweetbrier roses, fragrant acacia-blossoms
covered with bees and buzzing flies, the gold of glowing gorses, and scores of purple and yellow
flowers, of which I know not the names. On the gray walls, vines, grass, and the humble class
of flowers which go by the ignoble name of weeds straggle and cluster; and over them, held
down by the green cord of the stalk, balance the bursted balloons of hundreds of flaming scarlet
poppies that seem to have fed on fire. The undulating swell of the Campagna is here ablaze
with them for acres, and there deepening with growing grain, or snowed over with myriads of
daisies. Music and song, too, are not wanting; hundreds of birds are in the hedges. The lark,
"from his moist cabinet rising," rains down his trills of incessant song from invisible heights
of blue sky; and whenever one passes the wayside groves, a nightingale is sure to bubble into
song. The oranges, too, are in blossom, perfuming the air; locust-trees are tasselled with
odorous flowers; and over the walls of the Campagna villa bursts a cascade of vines covered
with foamy Banksia roses.

The Carnival of the kitchen-gardens is now commencing. Peas are already an old story, strawberries
are abundant, and cherries are beginning to make their appearance, in these first days of May;
old women sell them at every corner, tied together in tempting bunches, as in "the cherry-orchard"
which Miss Edgeworth has made fairy-land in our childish memories. Asparagus also has long
since come; and artichokes make their daily appearance on the table, sliced up and fried, or
boiled whole, or coming up roasted and gleaming with butter, with more outside capes and coats
than an ideal English coachman of the olden times. Finocchi, too, are here, tasting like anisette,
and good to mix in the salads. And great beans lie about in piles, the contadini twisting them
out of their thick pods with their thumbs, to eat them raw. Nay, even the signoria of the noble
families do the same, as they walk through the gardens, and think them such a luxury that they
eat them raw for breakfast. But over and above all other vegetables are the lettuces, which
are one of the great staples of food for the Roman people, and so crisp, fresh, delicate, and
high-flavored, that be who eats them once will hold Nebuchadnezzar no longer a subject for
compassion, but rather of envy. Drowned in fresh olive-oil and strong with vinegar, they are
a feast for the gods; and even in their natural state, without condiments, they are by no means
to be despised. At the corners of the streets they lie piled in green heaps, and are sold at
a baiocco for five heads. At noontide, the contadini and laborers feed upon them without even
the condiment of salt, crunching their white teeth through the crisp, wet leaves, and alternating
a bite at a great wedge of bread; and toward nightfall, one may see carts laden high up with
closely packed masses of them, coming in from the Campagna for the market. In a word, the festa
of the vegetables, at which they do not eat, but are eaten, and the Carnival of the kitchen-garden
have come.

But--a thousand, thousand pardons, O mighty Cavolo!--how have I dared omit thy august name?
On my knees, O potentest of vegetables, I crave forgiveness! I will burn at thy shrine ten
waxen candles, in penance, if thou wilt pardon the sin and shame of my forgetfulness! The smoke
of thy altar-fires, the steam of thy incense, and the odors of thy sanctity rise from every
hypaethral shrine in Rome. Out-doors and in-doors, wherever the foot wanders, on palatial stairs
or in the hut of poverty, in the convent pottage and the Lepre soup, in the wooden platter
of the beggar and the silver tureen of the prince, thou fillest our nostrils, thou satisfiest
our stomach. Thou hast no false pride; great as thou art, thou condescendest to be exchanged
for a baiocco. Dear enchantress! to thee, and to thy glorious cousin Broccoli, that tender-hearted,
efflorescent nymph, the Egeria of the osteria con cucina, the peerless maid that goes with
the steak and accepts martyrdom without moan, to drive away the demon of Hunger from her devoted
followers,--all honor! Far away, whenever I inhale thy odor, I shall think of "Roman Joys";
a whiff from thine altar in a foreign land will bear me back to the Eternal City, "the City
of the Soul," the City of the Cabbage, the home of the Dioscuri, Cavolo and Broccoli! Yes,
as Paris is recalled by the odor of chocolate, and London by the damp steam of malt, so shall
Rome come back when my nostrils are filled with thy penetrative fragrance!

Saunter out at any of the city-gates, or lean over the wall at San Giovanni, (and where will
you find a more charming spot?) or look down from the windows of the Villa Negroni, and your
eye will surely fall on one of the Roman kitchen-gardens, patterned out in even rows and squares
of green. Nothing can be prettier or more tasteful in their arrangement than these variegated
carpets of vegetables. A great cistern of running water crowns the height of the ground, which
is used for the purposes of irrigation, and towards nightfall the vent is opened, and you may
see the gardeners imbanking the channelled rows to let the inundation flow through hundreds
of little lanes of intersection and canals between the beds, and then banking them up at the
entrance when a sufficient quantity of water has entered. In this way they fertilize and refresh
the soil, which else would parch under the continuous sun. And this, indeed, is all the fertilization
they need,--so strong is the soil all over the Campagna. The accretions and decay of thousands
of years have covered it with a loam whose richness and depth are astonishing. Dig where you
will, for ten feet down, and you do not pass through its wonderfully fertile loam into gravel,
and the slightest labor is repaid a hundred-fold.

As one looks from the Villa Negroni windows, he cannot fail to be impressed by the strange
changes through which this wonderful city has passed. The very spot on which Nero, the insane
emperor-artist, fiddled while Rome was burning has now become a vast kitchen-garden, belonging
to Prince Massimo, (himself a descendant, as he claims, of Fabius Cunctator,) where men no
longer, but only lettuces, asparagus, and artichokes, are ruthlessly cut down. The inundations
are not for mock sea-fights among slaves, but for the peaceful purposes of irrigation. And
though the fiddle of Nero is only traditional, the trumpets of the French, murdering many an
unhappy strain near by, are a most melancholy fact. In the bottom of the valley, a noble old
villa, covered with frescoes, has been turned into a manufactory of bricks, and the very Villa
Negroni itself is now doomed to be the site of a railway station. Yet here the princely family
of Negroni lived, and the very lady at whose house Lucrezia Borgia took her famous revenge
may once have sauntered under the walls, which still glow with ripening oranges, to feed the
gold-fish in the fountain, or walked with stately friends through the long alleys of clipped
cypresses, and pic-nicked alia Giorgione on lawns which are now but kitchen-gardens, dedicated
to San Cavolo. It pleases me, also, descending in memories to a later time, to look up at the
summer-house built above the gateway, and recall the days when Shelley and Keats came there
to visit their friend Severn, the artist, (for that was his studio,) and look over the same
alleys and gardens, and speak words one would have been so glad to hear,--and, coming still
later down, to recall the hearty words and brave heart of America's best sculptor and my dear
friend, Crawford.

But to return to the kitchen-gardens. Pretty as they are to the eye, they are not considered
to be wholesome; and no Roman will live in a house near one of them, especially if it lie on
the southern and western side, so that the Sirocco and the prevalent summer winds blow over
it. The daily irrigation, in itself, would be sufficient to frighten all Italians away; for
they have a deadly fear of all effluvia arising from decomposing vegetable substances, and
suppose, with a good deal of truth, that, wherever there is water on the earth, there is decomposition.
But this is not the only reason; for the same prejudice exists in regard to all kinds of gardens,
whether irrigated or not,--and even to groves of trees and clusters of bushes, or vegetation
of any kind, around a house. This is the real reason why, even in their country villas, their
trees are almost always planted at a distance from the house, so as to expose it to the sun
and to give it a free ventilation; these they do not care for; damp is their determined foe,
and therefore they will not purchase the luxury of shade from trees at the risk of the damp
it is supposed to engender. On the north, however, gardens are not thought to be so prejudicial
as on the south and west,--as the cold, dry winds come from the former direction. The malaria,
as we call it, though the term is unknown to Romans, is never so dangerous as after a slight
rain, just sufficient to wet the surface of the earth without deeply penetrating it; for decomposition
is then stimulated, and the miasma arising from the Campagna is blown abroad. So long as the
earth is dry, there is no danger of fever, except at morning and nightfall, and then simply
because of the heavy dews which the porous and baked earth then inhales and expires. After
the autumn has given a thorough, drenching rain, Rome is healthy and free from fever.

Rome has with strangers the reputation of being unhealthy; but this opinion I cannot think
well founded,--to the extent, at least, of the common belief. The diseases of children there
are ordinarily very light, while in America and England they are terrible. Scarlet and typhus
fevers, those fearful scourges in the North, are known at Rome only under most mitigated forms.
Cholera has shown no virulence there; and for diseases of the throat and lungs the air alone
is almost curative. The great curse of the place is the intermittent fever, in which any other
illness is apt to end. But this, except in its peculiar phase of Perniciosa, though a very
annoying, is by no means a dangerous disease, and has the additional advantage of a specific
remedy. The Romans themselves of the better class seldom suffer from it, and I cannot but think
that with a little prudence it may be easily avoided. Those who are most attacked by it are
the laborers and contadini on the Campagna; and how can it be otherwise with them? They sleep
often on the bare ground, or on a little straw under a capanna just large enough to admit them
on all-fours. Their labor is exhausting, and performed in the sun, and while in a violent perspiration
they are often exposed to sudden draughts and checks. Their food is poor, their habits careless,
and it would require an iron constitution to resist what they endure. But, despite the life
they lead and their various exposures, they are for the most part a very strong and sturdy
class. This intermittent fever is undoubtedly a far from pleasant thing; but Americans who
are terrified at it in Rome give it no thought in Philadelphia, where it is more prevalent,--and
while they call Rome unhealthy, live with undisturbed confidence in cities where scarlet and
typhus fevers annually rage.

It is a curious fact, that the French soldiers, who in 1848 made the siege of Rome, suffered
no inconvenience or injury to their health from sleeping on the Campagna, and that, despite
the prophecies to the contrary, very few cases of fever appeared, though the siege lasted during
all the summer months. The reason of this is doubtless to be found in the fact that they were
better clothed, better fed, and in every way more careful of themselves, than the contadini.
Foreigners, too, who visit Rome, are very seldom attacked by intermittent fever; and it may
truly be said, that, when they are, it is, for the most part, their own fault. There is generally
the grossest inconsistency between their theories and their practice. Believing as they do
that the least exposure will induce fever, they expose themselves with singular recklessness
to the very causes of fever. After hurrying through the streets and getting into a violent
perspiration, they plunge at once into some damp pit-like church or chill gallery, where the
temperature is at least ten degrees lower than the outer air. The bald-headed, rosy John Bull,
steaming with heat, doffs at once the hat which he wore in the street, and, of course, is astounded,
if the result prove just what it would be anywhere else,--and if he take cold and get a fever,
charges it to the climate, and not to his own stupidity and recklessness. Beside this, foreigners
will always insist on carrying their home-habits with them wherever they go, and it is exceedingly
difficult to persuade any one that he does not understand the climate better than the Italians
themselves, whom he puts down as a poor set of timid ignoramuses. However, the longer one lives
in Rome, the more he learns to value the Italian rules of health. There is probably no people
so careful in these matters as the Italians, and especially the Romans. They understand their
own climate, and they have a special dislike of death. In France and England suicides are very
common; in Italy they are almost unknown. The American recklessness of life completely astounds
the Italian. He enjoys life, studies every method to preserve it, and considers any one who
risks it unnecessarily as simply a fool.

What, then, are their rules of life? In the first place, in all their habits they are very
regular. They eat at stated times, and cannot be persuaded to partake of anything in the intervals.
If it be not their hour for eating, they will refuse the choicest viands, and will sit at your
table fasting, despite every temptation you can offer them. They are also very abstemious in
their diet, and gluttony is the very rarest of vices. I do not believe there is another nation
in Europe that eats so sparingly. In the morning they take a cup of coffee, generally without
milk, sopping in it some light brioche. Later in the day they take a slight lunch of soup and
macaroni, with a glass of wine. This lasts them until dinner, which begins with a watery soup;
after which the lesso or boiled meat comes on and is eaten with one vegetable, which is less
a dish than a garnish to the meat; then comes a dish of some vegetable eaten with bread; then,
perhaps, a chop, or another dish of meat, garnished with a vegetable; some light dolce or fruit,
and a cup of black coffee,--the latter for digestion's sake,--finish the repast. The quantity
is very small, however, compared to what is eaten in England, France, America, or, though last,
not least, Germany. Late in the evening they have a supper. When dinner is taken in the middle
of the day, lunch is omitted. This is the rule of the better classes. The workmen and middle
classes, after their cup of coffee and bit of bread or brioche in the morning, take nothing
until night, except another cup of coffee and bread,--and their dinner finishes their meals
after their work is done. From my own observation, I should say that an Italian does not certainly
eat more than half as much as a German, or two-thirds as much as an American. The climate will
not allow of gormandizing, and much less food is required to sustain the vital powers than
in America, where the atmosphere is so stimulating to the brain and the digestion, or in England,
where the depressing effects of the climate must be counteracted by stimulants. Go to any table
d'hote in the season, and you will at once know all the English who are new comers by their
bottle of ale or claret or sherry or brandy; for the Englishman assimilates with difficulty,
and unwillingly puts off his home-habits. The fresh American will always be recognized by the
morning-dinner, which he calls a breakfast.

If you wish to keep your health in Italy, follow the example of the Italians. Eat a third less
than you are accustomed to at home. Do not drink habitually of brandy, porter, ale, or even
Marsala, but confine yourselves to the lighter wines of the country or of France. Do not walk
much in the sun; "only Englishmen and dogs" do that, as the proverb goes; and especially take
heed not to expose yourself, when warm, to any sudden changes of temperature. If you have heated
yourself with walking in the sun, be careful not to go at once, and especially towards nightfall,
into the lower and shaded streets, which have begun to gather the damps, and which are kept
cool by the high, thick walls of the houses. Remember that the difference of temperature is
very great between the narrow, shaded streets and the high, sunny Pincio. If you have the misfortune
to be of the male sex, and especially if you suffer under the sorrow of the first great Caesar
in being bald, buy yourself a little skullcap, (it is as good as his laurels for the purpose,)
and put it on your head whenever you enter the churches and cold galleries. Almost every fever
here is the result of suddenly checked transpiration of the skin; and if you will take the
precaution to cool yourself before entering churches and galleries, and not to expose yourself
while warm to sudden changes of temperature, you may live twenty years in Rome without a fever.
Do not stand in draughts of cold air, and shut your windows when you go to bed. There is nothing
an Italian fears like a current of air, and with reason. He will never sit between two doors
or two windows. If he has walked to see you and is in the least warm, pray him to keep his
hat on until he is cool, if you would be courteous to him. You will find that he will always
use the same gentilezza to you. The reason why you should shut your windows at night is very
simple. The night-air is invariably damp and cold, contrasting greatly with the warmth of the
day, and it is then that the miasma from the Campagna drifts into the city. And oh, my American
friends! repress your national love for hot rooms and great fires, and do not make an oven
of your salon. Bake yourselves, kiln-dry yourselves, if you choose, in your furnaced houses
at home, but, if you value your health, "reform that altogether" in Italy. Increase your clothing
and suppress your fires, and you will find yourselves better in head and in pocket. With your
great fires you will always be cold and always have colds; for the houses are not tight, and
you only create great draughts thereby. You will not persuade an Italian to sit near them;--"Scusa,
Signore" he will say, "mi fa male; se non gli dispiace, mi metto in questo cantone,"--and with
your permission he takes the farthest corner away from the fire. Seven winters in Rome have
convinced me of the correctness of their rule. Of course, you do not believe me or them; but
it would be better for you, if you did,--and for me, too, when I come to visit you.

But I must beg pardon for all this advice; and as my business is not to write a medical thesis
here, let me return to pleasanter things.

Scarcely does the sun drop behind St. Peter's on the first day of May, before bonfires begin
to blaze from all the country towns on the mountain-sides, showing like great beacons. This
is a custom founded in great antiquity, and common to the North and South. The first of May
is the Festival of the Holy Apostles in Italy; but in Germany, and still farther north, in
Sweden and Norway, it is Walpurgisnacht,--when goblins, witches, hags, and devils hold high
holiday, mounting on their brooms for the Brocken. And it was on this night that Mephistopheles
carried Faust on his wondrous ride, and showed him the spectre of Margaret with the red line
round her throat. Miss Bremer, in her "Life in Dalecarlia," gives the following account of
the origin of this custom:--"It is so old," she says, "that there is no perfect certainty either
of its origin or signification. It is, however, believed that it derives its origin from a
heathen sacrificatory festival; and there is ground for the acceptation that children were
sacrificed alive at this very feast,--and this, in fact, in order to expel or reconcile the
evil spirits, of whom the people believed, that, partly flying, partly riding, they commenced
their passages over fields and woods at the beginning of spring, and which are to this day
called enchanters, witches, nymphs, and so forth. It is also believed that about this time
the spirits of the earth came forth from out of the bosom of the earth and the heart of the
mountains in order to seek intercourse with the children of men. Fires were frequently kindled
upon the sepulchral hills, and at these, sacrifices were offered, chiefly to the good powers,
namely, to those who provide for a fruitful year. At present I should scarcely think there
is an individual who believes in such superstitious stuff. But they still, as in days of yore,
kindle fires upon the mountains on this night, and still look upon it as a bad omen, if any
common or ugly-formed creature, whether beast or man, makes its appearance at the fire."

In the Neapolitan towns great fires are built on this festival, around which the people dance,
jumping through the flames, and flinging themselves about in every wild and fantastic attitude.
It is probably a relic of some old sacrificatory festival to Maia, who has given her name to
this month,--the custom still remaining after its significance is gone.

The month of May is the culmination of the spring and the season of seasons at Rome. No wonder
that foreigners who have come when winter sets in and take wing before April shows her sky
sometimes growl at the weather, and ask if this is the beautiful Italian clime. They have simply
selected the rainy season for their visit; and one cannot expect to have sun the whole year
through, without intermission. Where will they find more sun in the same season? where will
they find milder and softer air? Days even in the middle of winter, and sometimes weeks, descend
as it were from heaven to fill the soul with delight; and a lovely day in Rome is lovelier
than under any other sky on earth. But just when foreigners go away in crowds, the weather
is settling into the perfection of spring, and then it is that Rome is most charming. The rains
are over, the sun is a daily blessing, all Nature is bursting into leaf and flower, and one
may spend days on the Campagna without fear of colds and fever. Stay in Rome during May, if
you wish to feel its beauty.

The best rule for a traveller who desires to enjoy the charms of every clime would be to go
to the North in the winter and to the South in the spring and summer. Cold is the speciality
of the North, and all its sports and gayeties take thence their tone. The houses are built
to shut out the demon of Frost, and protect one from his assaults of ice and snow. Let him
howl about your windows and scrawl his wonderful landscapes on your panes and pile his fantastic
wreaths outside, while you draw round the blazing hearth and enjoy the artificial heat and
warm in the social converse that he provokes. Your punch is all the better for his threats;
by contrast you enjoy the more. Or brave him outside in a flying sledge, careering with jangling
bells over white wastes of snow, while the stars, as you go, fly through the naked trees that
are glittering with ice-jewels, and your blood tingles with excitement, and your breath is
blown like a white incense to the skies. That is the real North. How tame he will look to you,
when you go back in August and find a few hard apples, a few tough plums, and some sour little
things which are apologies for grapes! He looks sneaky enough then, with his make-believe summer,
and all his furs off. No, then is the time for the South. All is simmering outside, and the
locust saws and shrills till he seems to heat the air. You stay in the house at noon, and know
what a virtue there is in thick walls which keep out the fierce heats, in gaping windows and
doors that will not shut because you need the ventilation. You will not now complain of the
stone and brick floors that you cursed all winter long, and on which you now sprinkle water
to keep the air cool in your rooms. The blunders and stupidities of winter are all over. The
breezy loggia is no longer a joke. You are glad enough to sit there and drink your wine and
look over the landscape. Manuccia brings in a great basket of grapes that are grapes, which
the wasp envies you as you eat, and comes to share. And here are luscious figs bursting with
seedy sweetness, and apricots rusted in the sun, and velvety peaches that break into juice
in your mouth, and great black-seeded cocomeri. Nature empties her cornucopia of fruits and
flowers and vegetables all over your table. Luxuriously you enjoy them and fan yourself and
take your siesta, with full appreciation of your dolce far niente. When the sun begins to slope
westward, if you are in the country, you wander through the green lanes festooned with vines
and pluck the grapes as you go; or, if you are in the city, you saunter the evening long through
the streets, where all the world are strolling, and take your granito of ice or sherbet, and
talk over the things of the day and the time, and pass as you go home groups of singers and
serenaders with guitars, flutes, and violins,--serenade, perhaps, sometimes, yourself; and
all the time the great planets and stars palpitate in the near heavens, and the soft air full
of fragrance blows against your cheek. And you can really say, This is Italy! For it is not
what you do, so much as what you feel, that makes Italy.

But pray remember, when you go there, that in the South every arrangement is made for the nine
hot months, and not for the three cold and rainy ones you choose to spend there, and perhaps
your views may be somewhat modified in respect of this "miserable people," who, you say, "have
no idea of comfort,"--meaning, of course, English comfort. Perhaps, I say; for it is in the
nature of travellers to come to sudden conclusions upon slight premises, to maintain with obstinacy
preconceived notions, and to quarrel with all national traits except their own. And being English,
unless you have a friend in India who has made you aware that cane-bottom chairs are India-English,
you will be pretty sure to believe that there is no comfort without carpets and coal; or being
an American, you will be apt to undervalue a gallery of pictures with only a three-ply carpet
on the floor, and to "calculate," that, if they could see your house in Washington Street,
they would feel rather ashamed. However, there is a great deal of human nature in mankind,
wherever you go,--except in Paris, perhaps, where Nature is rather inhuman and artificial.
And when I instance the Englishman and American as making false judgments, let me not be misunderstood
as supposing them the only nations in that category. No, no! did not my Parisian acquaintance
the other day assure me very gravely, after lamenting the absurdity of the Italians' not speaking
French instead of their own language,--"But, Sir, what is this Italian? nothing but bad French!"--and
did not another of that same polished nation, in describing his travels to Naples, say, in
answer to the question, whether he had seen the grand old temples of Paestum,--"Ah, yes, I
have seen Paestum; 'tis a detestable country!--like the Campagna of Rome"? I am perfectly aware
that there are differences of opinion.

Let me, then, beg you to remain in Rome during the mouth of May, if you can possibly make your
arrangements to do so.

May is the month of the Madonna, and on every festa-day you will see at the corners of the
streets a little improvised shrine, or it may be only a festooned print of the Madonna hung
against the walls of some house or against the back of a chair, and tended by two or three
children, who hold out to you a plate, as you pass, and beg for charity, sometimes, I confess,
in the most pertinacious way,--the money thus raised to be expended in oil for the lamps before
the Madonna shrines in the streets. The monasteries of nuns are also busy with processions
and celebrations in honor of "the Mother of God," which are carried on pleasantly within their
precincts and seen only of female friends. Sometimes you will meet a procession of ladies outside
the gates following a cross on foot, while their carriages come after in a long file. These
are societies which are making the pilgrimage of the Seven Basilicas outside the Walls. They
set out early in the morning, stopping in each basilica for a half-hour to say their prayers,
and return to Rome at Ave Maria.

Life, too, is altogether changed now. All the windows are wide open, and there is at least
one head and shoulders leaning out at every house. And the poorer families are all out on their
door-steps, working and chatting together, while their children run about them in the streets,
sprawling, playing, and fighting. Many a beautiful theme for the artist is now to be found
in these careless and characteristic groups; and curly-headed Saint Johns may be seen in every
street, half naked, with great black eyes and rounded arms and legs. It is this which makes
Rome so admirable a residence for an artist. All things are easy and careless in the out-of-doors
life of the common people,--all poses unsought, all groupings accidental, all action unaffected
and unconscious. One meets Nature at every turn,--not braced up in prim forms, not conscious
in manners, not made up into the fashionable or the proper, but impulsive, free, and simple.
With the whole street looking on, they are as unconscious and natural as if they were where
no eye could see them,--ay, and more natural, too, than it is possible for some people to be,
even in the privacy of their solitary rooms. They sing at the top of their lungs as they sit
on their door-steps at their work, and often shout from house to house across the street a
long conversation, and sometimes even read letters from upper windows to their friends below
in the street. The men and women who cry their fruits, vegetables, and wares up and down the
city, laden with baskets or panniers, and often accompanied by a donkey, stop to chat with
group after group, or get into animated debates about prices, or exercise their wits and lungs
at once in repartee in a very amusing way. Everybody is in dishabille in the morning, but towards
twilight the girls put on their better dresses, and comb their glossy raven hair, heaping it
up in great solid braids, and, hanging two long golden ear-rings in their ears and collane
round their full necks, come forth conquering and to conquer, and saunter bare-headed up and
down the streets, or lounge about the doorways or piazzas in groups, ready to give back to
any jeerer as good as he sends. You see them marching along sometimes in a broad platoon of
five or six, all their brows as straight as if they had been ruled, and their great dark eyes
flashing out under them, ready in a moment for a laugh or a frown. What stalwart creatures
they are! What shoulders, bosoms, and backs they have! what a chance for the lungs under those
stout busti! and what finished and elegant heads! They are certainly cast in a large mould,
with nothing belittled or meagre about them, either in feature or figure.

Early in the morning you will see streaming through the streets or gathered together in picturesque
groups, some standing, some couching on the pavement, herds of long-haired goats, brown and
white and black, which have been driven, or rather which have followed their shepherd, into
the city to be milked. The majestical, long-bearded, patriarchal rams shake their bells and
parade solemnly round,--while the silken females clatter their little hoofs as they run from
the hand of the milker when he has filled his can. The shepherd is kept pretty busy, too, milking
at everybody's door; and before the fashionable world is up at nine, the milk is gone and the
goats are off.

You may know that it is May by the orange and lemon stands, which are erected in almost every
piazza. These are little booths covered with canvas, and fantastically adorned with lemons
and oranges intermixed, which, piled into pyramids and disposed about everywhere, have a very
gay effect. They are generally placed near a fountain, the water of which is conducted through
a canna into the centre of the booth, and there, finding its own level again, makes a little
spilling fountain from which the bibite are diluted. Here for a baiocco one buys lemonade or
orangeade and all sorts of curious little drinks or bibite, with a feeble taste of anisette
or some other herb to take off the mawkishness of the water,--or for a half-baiocco one may
have the lemonade without sugar, and in this way it is usually drunk. On all festa-days, little
portable tables are carried round the streets, hung to the neck of the limonaro, and set down
at convenient spots, or whenever a customer presents himself, and the cries of "Acqua fresca,--limonaro,
limonaro,--chi vuol bere?" are heard on all sides; and I can assure you, that, after standing
on tiptoe for an hour in the heat and straining your neck and head to get sight of some Church
procession, you are glad enough to go to the extravagance of even a lemonade with sugar; and
smacking your lips, you bless the institution of the limonaro as one which must have been early
instituted by the Good Samaritan. Listen to his own description of himself in one of the popular
canzonetti sung about the streets by wandering musicians to the accompaniment of a violin and
guitar:--

  "Ma per altro son uomo ingegnoso,
    Non possiedo, ma sono padrone;
    Vendo l' acqua con spirto e limone
  Finche dura d' estate il calor.

  "Ho an capello di paglia,--ma bello!
    Un zinale di sopra fino;
    Chi mi osserva nel mio tavolino,
  Gli vien sete, se sete non ha.

  "Spaccio spirti, siroppi, acquavite
    Fo 'ranciate di nuova invenzione;
    Voi vedete quante persone
  Chiedon acqua,--e rispondo,--Son qua!"

The limonaro is the exponent, the algebraic power, of the Church processions which abound this
month; and he is as faithful to them as Boswell to Johnson;--wherever they appear, he is there
to console and refresh. Nor is his office a sinecure now; and let us hope that he has his small
profits, as well as the Church,--though they spell theirs differently.

The great procession of the year takes place this month on Corpus Domini, and is well worth
seeing, as being the very finest and most characteristic of all the Church festivals. It was
instituted in honor of the famous miracle at Bolsena, when the wafer dripped blood, and is,
therefore, in commemoration of one of the cardinal doctrines of the Roman Church, Transubstantiation,
and one of its most theological miracles. The Papal procession takes place in the morning,
in the piazza of Saint Peter's; and if you would be sure of it, you must be on the spot as
soon as eight o'clock at the latest. The whole circle of the piazza itself is covered with
an awning, festooned gayly with garlands of box, under which the procession passes; and the
ground is covered with yellow sand, over which box and bay are strewn. The celebration commences
with morning mass in the basilica, and that over, the procession issues from one door, and,
making the whole circuit of the piazza, returns into the church. First come the Seminaristi,
or scholars and attendants of the various hospitals and charity-schools, such as San Michele
and Santo Spirito,--all in white. Then follow the brown-cowled, long-bearded Franciscans, the
white Carmelites, and the black Benedictines, bearing lighted candles and chanting hoarsely
as they go. You may see pass before you now all the members of these different conventual orders
that there are in Rome, and have an admirable opportunity to study their physiognomies in mass.
If you are a convert to Romanism, you will perhaps find in their bald beads and shaven crowns
and bearded faces a noble expression of reverence and humility; but, suffering as I do under
the misfortune of being a heretic, I could but remark on their heads an enormous development
of the two organs of reverence and firmness, and a singular deficiency in the upper forehead,
while there was an almost universal enlargement of the lower jaw and of the base of the brain.
Being, unfortunately, a friend of Phrenology, as well as a heretic, I drew no very auspicious
augury from these developments; and looking into their faces, the physiognomical traits were
narrow-mindedness, bigotry, or cunning. The Benedictine heads showed more intellect and will;
the Franciscans more dulness and good-nature.

But while I am criticizing them, they are passing by, and a picturesque set of fellows they
are. Much as I dislike the conventual creed, I should be sorry to see the costume disappear.
Directly on the heels of their poverty come the three splendid triple crowns of the Pope, glittering
with gorgeous jewels, and borne in triumph on silken embroidered cushions, and preceded by
the court jeweller. After them follow the chapters, canons, and choirs of the seven basilicas,
chanting in lofty altos and solid basses and clear ringing tenors from their old Church books,
each basilica bearing a typical tent of colored stripes and a wooden campanile and a bell which
is constantly rung. Next come the canons of the churches and the monsignori, in splendid dresses
and rich capes of beautiful lace falling below their waists; the bishops clad in cloth of silver
with mitres on their heads; the cardinals brilliant in gold embroidery and gleaming in the
sun; and at last the Pope himself, borne on a platform splendid with silver and gold, with
a rich canopy over his head. Beneath this he kneels, or rather, seems to kneel; for, though
his splendid draperies and train are skilfully arranged so as to present this semblance, being
drawn behind him over two blocks which are so placed as to represent his heels, yet in fact
he is seated on a sunken bench or chair, as any careful eye can plainly see. However, kneeling
or sitting, just as you will, there he is, before an altar, holding up the ostia, which is
the corpus Domini, "the body of God," and surrounded by officers of the Swiss guards in glittering
armor, chamberlains in their beautiful black and Spanish dresses with ruffs and swords, attendants
in scarlet and purple costumes, and the guardia nobile in their red dress uniforms. Nothing
could be more striking than this group. It is the very type of the Church,--pompous, rich,
splendid, imposing. After them follow the dragoons mounted,--first a company on black horses,
then another on bays, and then a third on grays; foot-soldiers with flashing bayonets bring
up the rear, and the procession is over. As the last soldiers enter the church, there is a
stir among the gilt equipages of the cardinals which line one side of the piazza,--the horses
toss their scarlet plumes, the liveried servants sway as the carriages lumber on, and you may
spend a half-hour hunting out your own humble vehicle, if you have one, or throng homeward
on foot with the crowd through the Borgo and over the bridge of Sant' Angelo.

This grand procession strikes the note of all the others, and in the afternoon each parish
brings out its banners, arrays itself in its choicest dresses, and with pomp and music bears
the ostia through the streets, the crowd kneeling before it, and the priests chanting. During
the next ottava or eight days, all the processions take place in honor of this festival; and
when the week has passed, everything ends with the Papal procession in Saint Peter's piazza,
when, without music, and with uncovered heads, the Pope, cardinals, monsignori, canons, and
the rest of the priests and officials, make the round of the piazza, bearing great Church banners.

One of the most striking of their celebrations took place this year at the church of San Rocco
in the Ripetta, when the church was made splendid with lighted candles and gold bands, and
a preacher held forth to a crowded audience in the afternoon. At Ave Maria there was a great
procession, with banners, music, and torches, and all the evening the people sauntered to and
fro in crowds before the church, where a platform was erected and draped with old tapestries,
from which a band played constantly. Do not believe, my dear Presbyterian friend, that these
spectacles fail deeply to affect the common mind. So long as human nature remains the same,
this splendor and pomp of processions, these lighted torches and ornamented churches, this
triumphant music and glad holiday of religion will attract more than your plain conventicles,
your ugly meeting-houses, and your compromise with the bass-viol. For my own part, I do not
believe that music and painting and all the other arts really belong to the Devil, or that
God gave him joy and beauty to deceive with, and kept only the ugly, sour, and sad for himself.
We are always better when we are happy; and we are about as sure of being good when we are
happy, as of being happy when we are good. Cheerfulness and happiness are, in my humble opinion,
duties and habits to be cultivated; but, if you don't think so, I certainly would not deny
you the privilege of being wretched: don't let us quarrel about it.

Rather let us turn to the Artists' Festival, which takes place in this month, and is one of
the great attractions of the season. Formerly, this festival took place at Cerbara, an ancient
Etruscan town on the Campagna, of which only certain subterranean caves remain. But during
the revolutionary days which followed the disasters of 1848, it was suspended for two or three
years by the interdict of the Papal government, and when it was again instituted, the place
of meeting was changed to Fidenae, the site of another Etruscan town, with similar subterranean
excavations, which were made the head-quarters of the festival. But the new railway to Bologna
having been laid out directly over this ground, the artists have been again driven away, and
this year the festa was held, for the first time, in the grove of Egeria, one of the most beautiful
spots on the whole Campagna,--and here it is to be hoped it will have an abiding rest.

This festival was instituted by the German artists, and, though the artists of all nations
now join in it, the Germans still remain its special patrons and directors. Early in the morning,
the artists rendezvous at an appointed osteria outside the walls, dressed in every sort of
grotesque and ludicrous costume which can be imagined. All the old dresses which can be rummaged
out of the studios or theatres, or pieced together from masking wardrobes, are now in requisition.
Indians and Chinese, ancient warriors and mediaeval heroes, militia-men and Punches, generals
in top-boots and pigtails, doctors in gigantic wigs and small-clothes, Falstaffs and justices
"with fair round belly with good capon lined," magnificent foolscaps, wooden swords with terrible
inscriptions, gigantic chapeaus with plumes made of vegetables, in a word, every imaginable
absurdity is to be seen. Arrived at the place of rendezvous, they all breakfast, and then the
line of march is arranged. A great wooden cart, adorned with quaint devices, garlanded with
laurel and bay, bears the president and committee. This is drawn by great white oxen, who are
decorated with wreaths and flowers and gay trappings, and from it floats the noble banner of
Cerbara or Fidenae. After this follows a strange and motley train,--some mounted on donkeys,
some on horses, and some afoot,--and the line of march is taken up for the grove of Egeria.
What mad jests and wild fun now take place it is impossible to describe; suffice it to say,
that all are right glad of a little rest when they reach their destination.

Now begin to stream out from the city hundreds of carriages,--for all the world will be abroad
to-day to see,--and soon the green slopes are swarming with gay crowds. Some bring with them
a hamper of provisions and wine, and, spreading them on the grass, lunch and dine when and
where they will; but those who would dine with the artists must have the order of the mezzo
baiocco hanging to their buttonhole, which is distributed previously in Rome to all the artists
who purchase tickets. Some few there are who also bear upon their breasts the nobler medal
of troppo merito, gained on previous days, and those are looked upon with due reverence.

But before dinner or lunch there is a high ceremony to take place,--the great feature of the
day. It is the mock-heroic play. This year it was the meeting of Numa with the nymph Egeria
at the grotto; and thither went the festive procession; and the priest, befilletted and draped
in white, burned upon the altar as a sacrifice a great toy sheep, whose offence "smelt to heaven";
and then from the niches suddenly appeared Numa, a gallant youth in spectacles, and Egeria,
a Spanish artist with white dress and fillet, who made vows over the smoking sheep, and then
were escorted back to the sacred grove with festal music by a joyous, turbulent crowd.

Last year, however, at Fidenae, it was better. We had a travesty of the taking of Troy, which
was eminently ludicrous, and which deserves a better description than I can give. Troy was
a space inclosed within paper barriers, about breast-high, painted "to present a wall," and
within these were the Trojans, clad in red, and all wearing gigantic paper helmets. There was
old Priam, in spectacles, with his crown and robes,--Laocooen, in white, with a white wool
beard and wig,--Ulysses, in a long, yellow beard and mantle,--and Aeneas, with a bald head,
in a blue, long-tailed coat, and tall dickey, looking like the traditional Englishman in the
circus who comes to hire the horse. The Grecians were encamped at a short distance. All had
round, basket-work shields,--some with their names painted on them in great letters, and some
with an odd device, such as a cat or pig. There were Ulysses, Agamemnon, Ajax, Nestor, Patroclus,
Diomedes, Achilles, "all honorable men." The drama commenced with the issuing of Paris and
Helen from the walls of Troy,--he in a tall, black French hat, girdled with a gilt crown, and
she in a white dress, with a great wig hanging round her face in a profusion of carrotty curls.
Queer figures enough they were, as they stepped along together, caricaturing love in a pantomime,
he making terrible demonstrations of his ardent passion, and she finally falling on his neck
in rapture. This over, they seated themselves near by two large pasteboard rocks, he sitting
on his shield and taking out his flute to play to her, while she brought forth her knitting
and ogled him as he played. While they were thus engaged, came creeping up with the stage stride
of a double step, and dragging one foot behind him, Menelaus, whom Thersites had, meantime,
been taunting, by pointing at him two great ox-horns. He walked all round the lovers, pantomiming
rage and jealousy in the accredited ballet style, and then, suddenly approaching, crushed poor
Paris's great black hat down over his eyes. Both, very much frightened, then took to their
heels and rushed into the city, while Menelaus, after shaking Paris's shield, in defiance,
at the walls, retired to the Grecian camp. Then came the preparations for battle. The Trojans
leaned over their paper battlements, with their fingers to their noses, twiddling them in scorn,
while the Greeks shook their fists back at them. The battle now commenced on the "ringing-plains
of Troy," and was eminently absurd. Paris, in hat and pantaloons, (a la mode de Paris,) soon
showed the white feather, and incontinently fled. Everybody hit nowhere, fiercely striking
the ground or the shields, and always carefully avoiding, as on the stage, to hit in the right
place. At last, however, Patroclus was killed, whereupon the battle was suspended, and a grand
tableau of surprise and horror took place, from which at last they recovered, and the Greeks
prepared to carry him off on their shoulders. Then terrible to behold was the grief of Achilles.
Homer himself would have wept to see him. He flung himself on the body, and shrieked, and tore
his hair, and violently shook the corpse, which, under such demonstrations, now and then kicked
up. Finally, he rises and challenges Hector to single combat, and out comes the valiant Trojan,
and a duel ensues with wooden axes. Such blows and counter blows were never seen, only they
never hit, but often whirled the warrior who dealt them completely round; they tumbled over
their own blows, panted with feigned rage, lost their robes and great pasteboard helmets, and
were even more absurd than Richmond and Richard ever were on the country boards at a fifth-rate
theatre. But Hector is at last slain and borne away, and a ludicrous lay figure is laid out
to represent him, with bunged-up eyes and a general flabbiness of body and want of features,
charming to behold. On their necks the Trojans bear him to their walls, and with a sudden jerk
pitch him over them head first, and he tumbles, in a heap, into the city. Then Ulysses harangues
the Greeks. He has brought out a quarteruola barrel of wine, which, with most expressive pantomime,
he shows to be the wooden horse that must be carried into Troy. His proposition is joyfully
accepted, and, accompanied by all, he rolls the cask up to the walls, and, flourishing a tin
cup in one hand, invites the Trojans to partake. At first there is confusion in the city, and
fingers are twiddled over the walls, but after a time all go out and drink, and become ludicrously
drunk, and stagger about, embracing each other in the most maudlin style. Even Helen herself
comes out, gets tipsy with the rest, and dances about like the most disreputable of Maenades.
A great scena, however, takes place as they are about to drink. Laocooen, got up in white wool,
appears, and violently endeavors to dissuade them, but in vain. In the midst of his harangue,
a long string of blown up sausage-skins is dragged in for the serpent, and suddenly cast about
his neck. His sons and he then form a group, the sausage-snake is twined about them,--only
the old story is reversed, and he bites the serpent instead of the serpent biting him,--and
all die in agony, travestying the ancient group.

All, being now drunk, go in, and Ulysses with them. A quantity of straw is kindled, the smoke
rises, the Greeks approach and dash in the paper walls with clubs, and all is confusion. Then
Aeneas, in his blue long-tailed circus-coat, broad white hat, and tall shirt-collar, carries
off old Anchises on his shoulders with a cigar in his mouth, and bears him to a painted section
of a vessel, which is rocked to and fro by hand, as if violently agitated by the waves. Aeneas
and Anchises enter the boat, or rather stand behind it so as to conceal their legs, and off
it sets, rocked to and fro constantly,--Aeolus and Tramontana following behind, with bellows
to blow up a wind, and Fair Weather, with his name written on big back, accompanying them.
The violent motion, however, soon makes Aeneas sick, and as he leans over the side in a helpless
and melancholy manner, and almost gives up the ghost, as well as more material things, the
crowd burst into laughter. However, at last they reach two painted rocks, and found Latium,
and a general rejoicing takes place.--The donkey who was to have ended all by dragging the
body of Hector round the walls came too late, and this part of the programme did not take place.

So much of the entertainment over, preparations are made for dinner. In the grove of Egeria
the plates are spread in circles, while all the company sing part-songs and dance. At last
all is ready, the signal is given, and the feast takes place after the most rustic manner.
Great barrels of wine covered with green branches stand at one side, from which flagons are
filled and passed round, and the good appetites soon make direful gaps in the beef and mighty
plates of lettuce. After this, and a little sauntering about for digestion's sake, come the
afternoon sports. And there are donkey races, and tilting at a ring, and foot-races, and running
in sacks. Nothing can be more picturesque than the scene, with its motley masqueraders, its
crowds of spectators seated along the slopes, its little tents here and there, its races in
the valley, and, above all, the glorious mountains looking down from the distance. Not till
the golden light slopes over the Campagna, gilding the skeletons of aqueducts, and drawing
a delicate veil of beauty over the mountains, can we tear ourselves away, and rattle back in
our carriage to Rome.

The wealthy Roman families, who have villas in the immediate vicinity of Rome, now leave the
city to spend a month in them and breathe the fresh air of spring. Many and many a tradesman
who is well to do in the world has a little vigna outside the gates, where he raises vegetables
and grapes and other fruits; and every festa-day you will be sure to find him and his family
out in his little villetta, wandering about the grounds or sitting beneath his arbors, smoking
and chatting with his children around him. His friends who have no villas of their own here
visit him, and often there is a considerable company thus collected, who, if one may judge
from their cheerful countenances and much laughter, enjoy themselves mightily. Knock at any
of these villa-gates, and, if you happen to have the acquaintance of the owner, or are evidently
a stranger of respectability, you will be received with much hospitality, invited to partake
of the fruit and wine, and overwhelmed with thanks for your gentilezza when you take your leave;
for the Italians are a most good-natured and social people, and nothing pleases them better
than a stranger who breaks the common round of topics by accounts of his own land. Everything
new is to them wonderful, just as it is to a child. They are credulous of everything you tell
them about America, which is to them in some measure what it was to the English in the days
of Raleigh, Drake, and Hawkins, and say "Per Bacco!" to every new statement. And they are so
magnificently ignorant, that you have carte blanche for your stories. Never did I know any
one staggered by anything I chose to say, but once. I was walking with my respectable old padrone,
Nisi, about his little garden one day, when an ambition to know something about America inflamed
his breast.

"Are there any mountains?" he asked.

I told him "Yes," and, with a chuckle of delight, he cried,--

"Per Bacco! And have you any cities?"

"Yes, a few little ones,"--for I thought I would sing small, contrary to the general "'Ercles
vein" of my countrymen. He was evidently pleased that they were small, and, swelling with natural
pride, said,--

"Large as Rome, of course, they could not be"; then, after a moment, he added, interrogatively,
"And rivers, too,--have you any rivers?"

"A few," I answered.

"But not as large as our Tiber," he replied,--feeling assured, that, if the cities were smaller
than Rome, as a necessary consequence, the rivers that flowed by them must be in the same category.

The bait now offered was too tempting. I measured my respectable and somewhat obese friend
carefully with my eye, for a moment, and then hurled this terrible fact at him:--

"We have some rivers three thousand miles long."

The effect was awful. He stood and stared at me, as if petrified, for a moment. Then the blood
rushed into his face, and, turning on his heel, he took off his hat, said suddenly, "Buona
sera," and carried my fact and his opinions together up into his private room. I am afraid
that Don Pietro decided, on consideration, that I had been taking unwarrantable liberties with
him, and exceeding all proper bounds, in my attempt to impose on his good-nature. From that
time forward he asked me no more questions about America.

And here, by the way, I am reminded of an incident, which, though not exactly pertinent, may
find here a parenthetical place, merely as illustrating some points of Italian character. One
fact and two names relating to America they know universally,--Columbus and his discovery of
America, and Washington.

"Si, Signore," said a respectable person some time since, as he was driving me to see a carriage
which he wished to sell me, and therefore desired to be particularly polite to me and my nation,--"a
great man, your Vashintoni! but I was sorry to hear, the other day, that his father had died
in London."

"His father dead, and in London?" I stammered, completely confounded at this extraordinary
news, and fearing lest I had been too stupid in misunderstanding him.

"Yes," he said, "it is too true that his father Vellintoni is dead. I read it in the Diario
di Roma."

But better than this was the ingenious argument of a Frate, whom I met on board a steamer in
going from Leghorn to Genoa, and who, having pumped out the fact that I was an American, immediately
began to "improve" it in a discourse on Columbus. So he informed me that Columbus was an Italian,
and that he had discovered America, and was a remarkable man; to all of which I readily assented,
as being true, if not new. But now a severe abstract question began to tax my friend's powers.
He said, "But how could he ever have imagined that the continent of America was there? That's
the question. It is extraordinary indeed!" And so he sat cogitating, and saying, at intervals,
"Curioso! Straordinario!" At last "a light broke in upon his brain." Some little bird whispered
the secret. His face lightened, and, looking at me, he said, "Perhaps he may have read that
it was there in some old book, and so went to see if it were or no." Vainly I endeavored to
show him that this view would deprive Columbus of his greatest distinction. He answered invariably,
"But without having read it, how could he ever have known it?"--thus putting the earth upon
the tortoise and leaving the tortoise to account for his own support.

Imagine that I have told you these stories sitting under the vine and fig-tree of some villetta,
while Angiolina has gone to call the padrone, who will only be too glad to see you. But, ecco!
at last our padrone comes. No, it is not the padrone, it is the vignarualo, who takes care
of his grapes and garden, and who recognizes us as friends of the padrone, and tells us that
we are ourselves padroni of the whole place, and offers us all sorts of fruits.

One old custom, which existed in Rome some fifteen years ago, has now passed away with other
good old things. It was the celebration of the Fravolata or Strawberry-Feast, when men in gala-dress
at the height of the strawberry-season went in procession through the streets, carrying on
their heads enormous wooden platters heaped with this delicious fruit, accompanied by girls
in costume, who, beating their tamburelli, danced along at their sides and sung the praises
of the strawberry. After threading the streets of the city, they passed singing out of the
gates, and at different places on the Campagna spent the day in festive sports and had an out-door
dinner and dance.

One of these festivals still exists, however, in the picturesque town of Genzano, which lies
above the old crater now filled with the still waters of Lake Nemi, and is called the Infiorata
di Genzano, "The Flower-Festival of Genzano." It takes place on the eighth day of the Corpus
Domini, and receives its name from the popular custom of spreading flowers upon the pavements
of the streets so as to represent heraldic devices, figures, arabesques, and all sorts of ornamental
designs. The people are all dressed in their effective costumes,--the girls in busti and silken
skirts, with all their corals and jewels on, and the men with white stockings on their legs,
their velvet jackets dropping over one shoulder, and flowers and rosettes in their conical
hats. The town is then very gay, the bells clang, the incense steams from the censer in the
church, where the organ peals and mass is said, and a brilliant procession marches over the
strewn flower-mosaic, with music and crucifixes and Church-banners. Hundreds of strangers,
too, are there to look on; and on the Cesarini Piazza and under the shadow of the long avenues
of ilexes that lead to the tower are hundreds of handsome girls, with their snowy tovaglie
peaked over their heads. The rub and thrum of tamburelli and the clicking of castanets are
heard, too, as twilight comes on, and the salterello is danced by many a group. This is the
national Roman dance, and is named from the little jumping step which characterizes it. Any
number of couples dance it, though the dance is perfect with two. Some of the movements are
very graceful and piquant, and particularly that where one of the dancers kneels and whirls
her arms on high, clicking her castanets, while the other circles her round and round, striking
his hands together, and approaching nearer and nearer, till he is ready to give her a kiss,
which she refuses: of course it is the old story of every national dance,--love and repulse,
love and repulse, until the maiden yields. As one couple panting and rosy retires, another
fresh one takes its place, while the bystanders play on the accordion the whirling, circling,
never-ending tune of the Tarantella, which would "put a spirit of youth in everything."

If you are tired of the festival, roam up a few paces out of the crowd, and you stand upon
the brink of Lake Nemi. Over opposite, and crowning the height where the little town of Nemi
perches, frowns the old feudal castle of the Colonna, with its tall, round tower, where many
a princely family has dwelt and many an unprincely act has been done. There, in turn, have
dwelt the Colonna, Borgia, Piccolomini, Cenci, Frangipani, and Braschi, and there the descendants
of the last-named family still pass a few weeks in the summer.[1] Below you, silent and silvery,
lies the lake itself,--and rising around it, like a green bowl, tower its richly wooded banks,
covered with gigantic oaks, ilexes, and chestnuts. This was the ancient grove dedicated to
Diana, which extended to L'Ariccia; and here are still to be seen the vestiges of an ancient
villa built by Julius Caesar. Here, too, if you trust some of the antiquaries, once stood the
temple of Diana Nemorensis,[2] where human sacrifices were offered, and whose chief-priest,
called Rex Nemorensis, obtained his office by slaying his predecessor, and reigned over these
groves by force of his personal arm. Times have, indeed, changed since the priesthood was thus
won and baptized by blood; and as you stand there, and look, on the one side, at the site of
this ancient temple, which some of the gigantic chestnut-trees may almost have seen in their
youth, and, on the other side, at the campanile of the Catholic church at Genzano, with its
flower-strewn pavements, you may have as sharp a contrast between the past and the present
as can easily be found.

[Footnote 1: On the Genzano side stands the castellated villa of the Cesarini Sforza, looking
peacefully across the lake at the rival tower, which in the old baronial days it used to challenge,--and
in its garden-pond you may see stately white swans oaring their way with rosy feet along.]

[Footnote 2: The better opinion of late seems to be that it was on the slopes of the Val d'Ariccia.
But "who shall decide, when doctors disagree?"]

THRENODIA.

ADDRESSED TO ALFRED TENNYSON, P.L., IN RESPONSE TO VERSES OF HIS "ON A LATE EVENT IN ENGLAND."

  I heard you In your English home,--
I read you by my little brook,
  Thousands of miles from British foam,
Hid in my dear New England nook:
But heard you with a sullen look;
  But read you with a gloomy brow;
And thus unto my Muse I spoke:--
  Who is there to write history now?

  Hallam is dead! and Prescott gone!
And Irving sleeps at Sunnyside!
  And now that Lord has wandered on,
Whose laurels must with theirs abide:
I greatly mourned the man who died
  First on this dismal roll of death,--
And him, of all observers eyed,
  My townsman here, who spent his breath

  In telling of the things of Spain,
And doing friendly things to friends,
  Prescott, well known beyond the main
And past the Pillars, to earth's ends:
Both had my tears: but England sends
  Another word across the seas,
Might rouse the dying from his bed:
  Oh, bear it gently, ocean-breeze!
That bitter word,--Thy friend is dead!

  Macaulay dead, who made to live
Past kingdoms, with his vivid brain!
  Who could such warmth to shadows give,
By the mere magic of his pen,
That Charles and England rose again!
  Well sleeps he 'mid the Abbey's dust:
And, Laureate! thy funereal verse
  Shall have such echo as it must
From hearts just wrung at Irving's hearse.

  These are two names to mark the year
As one of memorable woe,
  Two men to the two nations dear
Laid in one fatal winter low!
About the streets the mourners go;
  But I within my chamber rest,
Or walk the room with measured tread,
  Murmuring, with head upon my breast,
My God! and is Macaulay dead?

GENERAL MIRANDA'S EXPEDITION.

In November, 1805, a good-looking foreigner, gentlemanlike in dress and in manner, and apparently
fifty years of age, arrived in New York from England, and took lodgings at Mrs. Avery's, State
Street. He called himself George Martin; but this incognito was intended only for the vulgar.
Some of the principal citizens of New York, who recollected his first visit to this country
twenty years before, knew him as Don Francisco de Miranda of Caracas, one of the most distinguished
adventurers of that revolutionary era,--a favorite of the Empress of Russia, a friend of Mr.
Pitt, and second in command under Dumouriez in the Belgian campaign of 1793. To these gentlemen
he avowed that for many years he had meditated the independence of the Spanish-American Colonies,
and meant to make an attempt to carry out his plans. On Evacuation Day, a New York festival,
which is now nearly worn out, they invited him to a Corporation dinner, as a foreign officer
of rank, and toasted him, wishing him the same success in South America that we had had here.
He then went to Washington, under the name of Molini. There, as everywhere, he was received
by the best society as General Miranda. The President and the Secretary of State, Mr. Madison,
granted him several private interviews. In January he returned to New York,--and on the 2d
of February departed thence mysteriously in the Leander, a ship belonging to Mr. Samuel G.
Ogden, merchant.

While the Leander lay at anchor off Staten Island, a gentleman notified the Naval Officer of
the Port, that large quantities of arms and ammunition had been taken on board of her in boats,
at night. He was informed in return, that the Leander was cleared for Jacquemel, and that no
law existed to prevent her from sailing. No other attempt was made to detain her; but a few
weeks later, rumors affecting the character of the ship broke out in a more decided form. It
was generally believed at the Tontine Coffee-House that the Leander had been fitted out by
Miranda to attack the Spanish possessions in the West India Islands or on the Main. And yet
the New York journals took no notice of her until the 21st of February, nineteen days after
she sailed. In the mean time the Marquis Yrujo, backed by the French Ambassador, had made a
formal complaint to Government, and had caused the insertion in the "Philadelphia Gazette"
of a series of interrogatories to Mr. Madison, which indirectly accused the Administration
of encouraging Miranda's preparations, or at least of conniving at the expedition. This perverse
Marquis, who gave Mr. Jefferson a taste of the annoyance which Genet, Adet, and Fauchet had
inflicted upon the previous administrations, was clamorous and persisting. The authorities
in Washington thought it proper to order the arrest of Mr. Ogden, and of Colonel William Smith,
son-in-law of John Adams and Surveyor of the Port of New York, under the Act of 1794. The prisoners
were taken before Judge Tallmadge of the United States District Court. They were refused counsel,
and were forced by threats of imprisonment to submit to a searching examination. They were
then held to bail, both as principals and witnesses, in the sum of twenty thousand dollars.
Soon after, the President removed Colonel Smith from his office.

Such a waste of editorial raw-material appears very singular to newspaper-readers of the present
day, accustomed as they are to see in print everything that has happened or that might have
happened; but we must recollect that our grandfathers found the excitement necessary to civilized
man in party politics, national and local. This game they played with a fierce eagerness which
is now limited to a small class of inferior men.

To the violence and personal spitefulness of their newspaper articles we have fortunately nothing
comparable, even in the speeches of Honorable Members on Helper and John Brown. The "Tu quoque"
and the "Vos damnamini" were their favorite logical processes, and "Fool" and "Liar" the simple
and conclusive arguments with which they established a principle. Not that these ancients suffered
at all from a lack of stirring news. Bonaparte's wonderful campaigns, (Austerlitz had just
been heard of in New York,) the outrages on our sailors by English cruisers, our merchantmen
plundered by French and Spanish privateers, the irritating behavior of the Dons in Louisiana,
kept them abundantly supplied with this staff of mental life. But they did not care much for
news in the abstract as news, unless they could work it up into political ammunition and discharge
it at each other's heads. We must not forget, too, that newspaper-editing, the "California
of the spiritually vagabond," as Carlyle calls it, was a recent discovery, and that the rich
mine was but surface-worked. "Our own Reporter" was, like Milton's original lion, only half
unearthed; and deep hidden from mortal eyes as yet lay the sensation-items-man, who has made
the last-dying-speech-and-confession style of literature the principal element of our daily press.

At last the Federal editors gave tongue. It was high time; the town was in an uproar. They
perceived that Miranda might become a useful ally against Mr. T. Jefferson. His expedition
came opportunely, as the Mammoth Cheese and Black Sally were beginning to grow stale. Mr. Lang
opened the cry in the "New York Gazette" by asserting the complicity of Government, on the
authority of a "gentleman of the first respectability,"--meaning Mr. Rufus King.--Cheetham,
of the "Citizen," barked back at Lang, a would-be "Solomon," "a foul and abominable slanderer."
Mr. King, he could prove, had been examined, and had nothing to reveal.--Tom Paine wrote to
the "Citizen" to mention that he had known Miranda in New York in 1783 and in Paris in 1793.
Mr. Littlepage of Virginia, Chamberlain to the King of Poland, had then informed him that the
Empress Catharine had given Miranda four thousand pounds "as a retaining fee," and that Mr.
Pitt had also paid him twelve hundred pounds for his services in the Nootka Sound business.--All
the Federal papers charged the Government with connivance. You knew the destination of the
Leander; you did not prevent her from sailing; you nourished the offence until it attained
maturity, and then, after permitting the principals to go upon this expedition, you seize upon
the accessories who remain at home. And in how shameful and illegal a way! You examine them
before a single judge, with no counsel to advise them. You force them to criminate themselves,
and to sign their confessions, by the threat of imprisonment; and you punish Colonel Smith
before you have tried him, by depriving him of his office. Why, such a proceeding is worse
than any "Inquisitorial Tribunal" or "Star-Chamber Court."--Nonsense! answered the Democrats.
Ogden's and Smith's testimony does not implicate the Government in the least. It only proves
that Smith has been the dupe of Miranda. The President knew nothing about the matter. If the
object of the Leander's outfit was so generally spoken of, why did it escape the notice of
the Marquis Yrujo? Why did he not demand her seizure before she sailed? This charge against
the Government is a mere Federal trick. Your friends, the British, are at the bottom of the
expedition, and they have artfully employed Rufus King, a Federal chief, to throw the blame
upon the Executive of the United States. By ascribing to those who administer the government
the atrocities committed by Transatlantic rulers, you aim a deadly blow at the character of
our system; and your conduct, base in any view we can take of it, is particularly reprehensible
in the delicate state of our relations with Spain.

Mr. Cadwallader Golden, of counsel for the defendants, made a motion before Judge Tallmadge
for an order to prevent the District Attorney from using the preliminary evidence taken at
the private examinations. "It was a proceeding," he said, "arbitrary and subversive of the
first principles of law and liberty,"--"which would have disgraced the reign of Charles and
stained the character of Jeffries." The District Attorney was heard in opposition, and was
successful.

On the 7th of April, the Grand Jury found a bill against Smith, Ogden, Miranda, and Thomas
Lewis, captain of the Leander, for "setting on foot and beginning with force and arms a certain
military enterprise or expedition, to be carried on from the United States against the dominions
of a foreign prince: to wit, the dominions of the King of Spain; the said King of Spain then
and there being at peace with the United States." The Grand Jury, as an evidence of their impartiality,
or of the public feeling, also handed the Judge a presentment of himself, which he put into
his pocket, censuring his conduct in the private examinations, because "unusual, oppressive,
and contrary to law."

The trial was set down for the 14th of July. Messrs. Ogden and Smith did not wait so long for
a hearing. They laid their case at once before the public, in two memorials addressed to Congress,
complaining bitterly of the prosecution, not to say persecution, instituted against them by
the authorities in Washington, and of the cruel and oppressive measures taken by Judge Tallmadge
to carry out the mandates of his superiors. If they had done wrong, they urged, it was innocently.
A war with Spain was imminent. The critical position of the Louisiana Boundary question, the
President's Message of the 6th of December, and the documents accompanying it, left no doubts
on that point. Were they not right, then, in supposing, that, under these circumstances, the
President would encourage an expedition against the colonies of a hostile power? As evidence
of Mr. Jefferson's knowledge of Miranda's schemes, they stated that the General had brought
with him from England a letter to "a gentleman of the first consequence in New York," (Mr.
King,) which contained a sketch of his project: this letter was forwarded to the Secretary
of State and laid before the President by him. Miranda then went to Washington, saw the President
and the Secretary, and wrote to the memorialists that he had fully unfolded his plans to both.
In the course of a long conversation with Mr. Madison, he asked for pecuniary assistance and
for open encouragement, on the ground that individuals might not be willing to join in the
enterprise, if Government did not approve it,--particularly as a bill was then before Congress
to prohibit the exportation of arms. He also requested leave of absence for Colonel Smith,
who wished to accompany him. Mr. Madison answered, that the sentiments of the President could
not be doubted, but that the Government of the United States could afford no assistance of
any kind. Private individuals were at liberty to act as they pleased, provided they did not
violate the laws; and New York merchants would always advance money, if they saw their advantage
in it. As to the bill Miranda had spoken of, it was unlikely that it would pass,--and, in fact,
it did not. It was impossible, Mr. Madison added, to grant leave of absence to Colonel Smith,
although he thought him better fitted for military employment than for the custom-house. He
closed the interview by recommending the greatest discretion.

Miranda, continued the memorialists, remained fourteen days in Washington after this conversation,
and returned to New York confident of the silent approval of Government. Eleven days before
the Leander sailed, he sent a letter to Mr. Madison, inclosing another to Mr. Jefferson, both
of which he read to Ogden and to Smith. He assured Mr. Madison that he had conformed in every
way to the intentions of Government, and requested him to keep the secret. To Mr. Jefferson
he wrote in a strain more fashionable ten years before than then, but well adapted to the sentimentality,
both scientific and political, of the "Philosophic President." Here it is:--

"I have the honor to send you, inclosed, the 'Natural and Civil History of Chili,' of which
we conversed at Washington,--and in which you will, perhaps, find more than in those which
have been before published on the same subject, concerning this beautiful country.

"If ever the happy prediction, which you have pronounced on the future destiny of our dear
Columbia, is to be accomplished in our day, may Providence grant that it may be under your
auspices, and by the generous efforts of her own children! We shall then, in some sort, behold
the revival of that age, the return of which the Roman bard invoked in favor of the human race:--

"'The last great age foretold by sacred rhymes
  Renews its finished course; Saturnian times
  Roll round again; and mighty years, begun
  From this first orb, in radiant circles run.'"

On Miranda's reports, these letters, and the fact that the Leander had not been seized, they
rested their case, and prayed for the interference of Congress in their behalf.

Congress unanimously granted the petitioners leave to withdraw. Such evidence as this, not
only hearsay, but heard from the party most interested in misrepresenting the Administration,
was not entitled to much consideration. It had, moreover, the additional disadvantage of proving
nothing against the President and Secretary, even if every word of it were admitted as true.

Public attention was diverted from the Leander, Captain Lewis, to the Leander, Captain Whitby.
This English frigate was cruising off Sandy Hook, bringing to inward and outward bound vessels,
searching them for articles contraband of war, and helping herself to able-bodied seamen who
looked like British subjects. All of which was meekly submitted to in 1806. Mr. Jefferson could
not overcome his doubts as to the constitutionality of a fleet, and the Opposition had the
twofold pleasure of chuckling over the insults offered by John Bull to a government with French
proclivities, and of reproaching the party in power with its supineness and want of spirit.

But the accident of the 25th of April brought the American people to a proper sense of their
situation, for the moment. On that day, His British Majesty's ship Leander fired a round-shot
into the sloop Richard, bound to New York, and killed the man at the helm, John Pierce. The
body was brought to the city and borne through the principal streets, in the midst of universal
excitement, anger, and cries for vengeance. Black streamers were displayed from the houses;
shops were closed; the newspapers appeared in mourning. A public funeral was attended by the
whole population. Captain Whitby was indicted for murder, and took care to keep out of the
reach of United States law-officers. This homicide happened just in time for the May election
in New York. Both parties attempted to make use of it. The Federalists proclaimed that the
blood of Pierce was on the head of Jefferson and his followers. These retorted, that the English
pirates were the friends and comrades of the Federalists. Cheetham had seen the first lieutenant
of the Leander, disguised, in company with eight or ten of them, some days after the murder!!!
And the Democratic Republicans, as was and is still usual, had a majority at the polls.

From time to time short paragraphs appeared in the papers, advertising Miranda's success. "His
flag was flying on every fort from Cumana to Laguayra." "The whole of this fine country may
be considered as lost to Spain." Then came tidings of sadder complexion. He had been beaten
off with the loss of forty men, taken prisoners. The Spaniards had threatened to hang them
as pirates, but they would not dare to do it. The British had furnished Miranda with forty
Spanish prisoners, as hostages, "to avenge the threatened insult to the feelings of every friend
to the rights of self-government in every part of the world." At last, news arrived from the
Gulf which left Miranda's failure in his first attempt to land no longer doubtful. This, of
course, made the position of Ogden and Smith more dangerous, and their case more difficult
to manage.

When the trial of Colonel Smith came on, public interest revived, and became stronger than
before. The court-room was crowded by intelligent spectators during the whole course of the
proceedings, The case was peculiar, and had almost a dramatic interest. Here was a Government
prosecution against a man well known in the community, for an offence new to our courts; and
the heads of that Government, Jefferson and Madison, were indirectly on trial at the same time:--"For,
if Smith and Ogden are acquitted," said the Federal papers, "then must the whole guilt rest
on the Administration." Apart from the political interest of the trial, the eminence of the
counsel employed would have commanded an audience anywhere. Never, since New York has had courts
of justice, have so many distinguished lawyers adorned and dignified her bar as in the first
twenty years of this century. In this case, nearly all of the leaders were retained: Nathan
Sandford, District Attorney, and Pierrepoint Edwards, for the prosecution; for the defence,
Cadwallader Colden, Josiah Ogden Hoffman, Thomas Addis Emmet, Richard Harrison, and Washington
Morton.[*]

[Footnote *: Judge Patterson, of the United States Court, occupied the bench with Judge Tallmadge,
until ill-health obliged him to withdraw. He died soon after.]

Mr. Colden handed the Clerk a list of his witnesses, and requested him to call their names.
Among them were those of Madison, Dearborn, Gallatin, Granger, and Robert Smith, all members
of the Government. He then read the affidavit of service of subpoenas upon them on the 25th
of May, and, inasmuch as these gentlemen had not obeyed the subpoena, and as Colonel Smith
could not safely proceed to trial without their testimony, he moved that an attachment issue
against them.

The District Attorney opposed the motion, on the ground that the testimony of these witnesses
could not possibly be of any use to the defendant. None of them were present in New York when
the Leander was fitted out. And even if it could be shown by these witnesses that the Administration
had approved of this illegal expedition, it would not help the defendant. This is a country
governed by laws, and not by arbitrary edicts. If Colonel Smith had violated these laws, he
had rendered himself liable to punishment. He could not escape by making the President a particeps
criminis. An amusing letter was read from Madison, Dearborn, and Smith, which stated, "that
the President, taking into view the state of our public affairs, has specially signified to
us that our official duties cannot consistently therewith be at this juncture dispensed with."
They suggested that a commission should issue for the purpose of taking their respective testimonies.

Colden insisted that this was an attempt of the Executive to interfere with the Judiciary,
which ought not to be tolerated. Counsel in criminal cases had always the right to stand face
to face with witnesses. It was outrageous that the President should first approve of the conduct
of Colonel Smith, then order a prosecution against him and forbid his witnesses to attend the
trial.

The Court refused to grant an attachment. And later in the trial, when the defence offered
Rufus King to prove the President's knowledge and approbation of the enterprise, the Court
decided against the admission of the evidence.

The history of the expedition in New York, as shown by the testimony, was briefly this:--Colonel
Smith introduced Miranda to Ogden; and Ogden agreed to furnish his armed ship Leander, and
to load her with the necessary provisions, stores, arms, and ammunition. He estimated his expenditure
at seventy thousand dollars. Miranda had brought with him from London a bill of exchange on
New York for eight hundred pounds, which had been paid, and had drawn bills on England and
on Trinidad for seven thousand pounds, which had not been paid. This was all that Ogden had
received. But if the enterprise were successful, he was to be paid two hundred per cent, advance
on the ship and cargo. Smith had engaged fifteen or twenty officers, without informing them
of the object of the expedition, but expressly stipulating in writing that they would not be
employed against England or France, and giving them a general verbal assurance that they would
speedily make their fortunes. In this he was sincere, for he took his son from college and
sent him with Miranda. Smith had employed John Fink, a Bowery butcher, to engage men who could
serve on horseback. Fink enlisted twenty-three at fifteen dollars a month, and fifteen more
as a bounty. They were not to be taken out of the territory of the United States. Some of them
were told that the President was raising a mounted guard; others, that they were to guard the
mail from Washington to New Orleans. One of Fink's papers was shown on the trial, indorsed,
"Muster-Roll for the President's Guard." Smith had furnished the bounty-money, but it did not
appear that he had authorized these misrepresentations of Fink, who developed a talent in this
business which forty years later would have made his fortune as an emigrant-runner. Abundant
proofs of the purchase of military clothing, arms, powder, shot, and cannon were produced.

The Counsel for Colonel Smith, unable to get the connivance of the Administration before the
Jury in the shape of evidence, coolly assumed it as established, and urged it in defence of
their client. They used his memorial to Congress as their brief, enlarged upon the arbitrary
conduct of the Judge in the examinations and upon the tyrannical interference of the President
with their witnesses. As Mr. Emmet cleverly and classically remarked, quoting from Tacitus's
description of the funeral of Junia, "Perhaps their very absence rendered them more decided
witnesses in our favor." They also maintained that the Act of 1794, under which the prisoner
was indicted, did not prohibit an enterprise of this character. Even if it did, no proof existed
that this expedition was organized in New York. On the contrary, it was known that Miranda
had gone hence to Jacquemel, and had made his preparations there, in a port out of our jurisdiction.

This point made, they boldly went a step farther, and declared that the United States were
actually at war with Spain. The affair of the Kempers, and of Flanagan in Louisiana, the obstruction
of the Mobile Kiver, the depredations upon our commerce by Spanish privateers, were sufficient
proof of a state of war. We had a right to meet force by force. The President must have been
of this opinion, else he could not have violated his trust by authorizing this expedition.

The case for the defence, considered in a logical point of view, was desperate; but no case
is desperate before a Jury; and when Mr. Colden, Mr. Hoffman, and Mr. Emmet had each in his
own peculiar mode of eloquence appealed to the Jury to protect their client, already punished
by removal from his place, without a trial or even a hearing, for an offence committed with,
the sanction of his superior officers,--when they compared this State prosecution to the attempts
made by despotic European governments to crush innocent men by the machinery of law, and asserted
that it was instituted solely to gratify the malice of the King of Spain, a bitter enemy to
the United States,--and when they enlarged upon the grandeur of an undertaking to give liberty
to the down-trodden victims of Colonial tyranny, comparing Miranda and his friends to our own
Revolutionary heroes, there could be but little doubt of the verdict. But there was an uneasy
feeling after the District Attorney had closed. He demolished with ease the arguments of the
other side, for not one of them had sufficient strength to stand alone. Smith's perpetual excuse,
that he had been led astray by the belief of connivance in Washington, was preposterous. If
he had been anxious to know the sentiments of Government on the subject, he might at any time
within six days have ascertained whether Miranda told him truth or not. He spoke of the cruelty
and reckless folly of all such attempts upon a neighboring people; asked the Jury how they
would like to see an armed force landed upon our shores to take part with one or the other
of the great political parties; and closed with a few strong words, as true at this day as
then:--"If you acquit the defendant, you say to the world that the United States have renounced
the law of nations,--that they permit their citizens not only to violate their own laws with
impunity, but to invade the people of other countries with hostile force in a time of peace,
as avarice, ambition, or the thought of plunder may dictate. Such a decision would justify
the acts of the pirate on the ocean, and would sink our national character to the barbarism
of savage tribes."

The Jury were out two hours, and brought in a verdict of not guilty, which gave great satisfaction
to Federal editors. Other heroes of this profession, compared with whom Smith and Ogden were
spotless, have since come before our courts only to be turned loose upon the world again. No
other result is to be anticipated. It is an established principle with our fellow-citizens,
that no man is happy, or ought to be, who lives under any other system of government than our
own. Let a lawyer pronounce the magic formula, "Liberty to the oppressed," or "Free institutions
to the victims of despotism," and, presto!--rascality is metamorphosed into merit. After all,
it makes such a difference, when it is only our neighbor's ox that is gored!

Here closed the first act of the expedition. Colonel Smith lost his office, and Mr. Ogden stopped
payment. The passengers by the Leander fared worse. There were two hundred men on board: one
hundred and twenty belonged to the ship; the others had been engaged by Smith and his agent
Fink as officers, dragoons, printers, and armorers. With the exception of two or three, none
of them had seen their commander or knew their destination. The officers, all gentlemen "of
crooked fortunes," supposed that they were sailing to enlarge the area of freedom somewhere
in America; but what particular region of the Spanish dominions was to be subjected to this
wholesome treatment they neither knew nor cared, provided they could improve their own financial
condition. Both officers and privates were for the most part serviceable, steady men, worthy
of a more efficient leader.

On the 12th of February, they were overhauled and searched by H.B.M. ship Cleopatra. Nineteen
men with American protections were carried off in the frigate's boat, and twelve native Americans
taken out of prizes sent back to replace them. The Leander's papers were examined and pronounced
unsatisfactory. Miranda was obliged to go on board the Cleopatra, where he had a long private
conversation with the captain. He returned with full liberty to proceed, and with a written
pass to prevent detention or search by British cruisers. This adventure was made to give an
air of respectability to the enterprise; and Miranda hinted to his suite that the English captain
had promised to join him with his frigate. A day or two later, the Leander took other airs
upon herself. Meeting a small Spanish schooner, laden with logwood, off the Haytian coast,
Lewis fired into her, and ordered the captain on board with his papers, for the mere pleasure
of exercising power. The Spaniard, as soon as he got back to his own craft, made the best of
his way home and gave the first alarm.

On the 18th of February, they cast anchor at Jacquemel. Lewis went immediately to Port au-Prince,
to engage the Emperor, a ship commanded by his brother, to join the expedition. Miranda remained
behind to organize his followers. He at last announced to them that he intended to land near
Caracas; the whole country would rise at his name; his brave Americans would form the nucleus
and the heart of a great army; there was no Spanish force in the province to resist him. In
a general order, "Parole, America; Countersign, Liberty," he assigned to his officers their
rank in the Columbian army, distributing them into the Engineers, Artillery, Dragoons, Riflemen,
and Foot. Another general order, "Parole, Warren; Countersign, Bunker's Hill," fixed the uniforms
of the different corps,--to be distinguished by blue, yellow, or green facings. All hands were
set to work upon the crowded deck. Printers struck off proclamations and blank commissions
in the name of "Don Francisco de Miranda, Commander-in-Chief of the Columbian Army"; carpenters
made pike-handles; armorers repaired the arms bought in New York; (they had cost little, and
were worth less;) the regimental tailor and his disciples stitched the gay facings upon the
new uniforms; files of awkward fellows were put through the manual exercise by an old drill-sergeant;
and the young gentlemen officers read diligently in treatises on war, or listened to the discourses
of their general upon the noble art. In the midst of this stir of preparation, Lewis returned
unsuccessful, without the ship Emperor; but Miranda seemed in no hurry to depart. He continued
his lectures and his drilling until the 28th of March. At last he hoisted the new Columbian
flag,--a tricolor, blue, yellow, and red,--fired a grand salute, and stood gallantly out of
the harbor, where he had wasted six precious weeks.

Captain Lewis had chartered at Port-au-Prince the Bee, a small, unarmed schooner, and had bought
the Bacchus, a vessel of the same class, last from Laguayra, whose captain and men disappeared
mysteriously after their arrival at Jacquemel. Some of the Leander's hands volunteered for
the schooners, to get out of the crowded ship; others were forced on board, to make up a crew.
The little fleet steered for Bonair, but, through the ignorance of their pilot, or of their
captain, found themselves, after a ten-days' cruise, seventy miles to leeward, off the Gulf
of Venezuela. The Leander was a dull sailer; and, with the wind and current against her, it
took them four days to beat up to the Island of Aruba, and seven more to reach Bonair. On the
evening of the 27th of April, they were lying to off Puerto Cabello, preparing to land, and
sure of success, when they made out two Spanish guardacostas close in shore, beating up to
windward. Miranda thought them unworthy of attention, and gave the order to stand in. But the
pilot mistook the landmarks, owing to the darkness, and missed the point agreed upon for landing.
The Bacchus was sent in to reconnoitre and did not return, although signals of recall were
repeated throughout the night. About midnight signals were noticed passing between the fort
at Puerto Cabello and the guardacostas; Captain Lewis beat to quarters, and kept his men at
their guns until morning. At daybreak the Bacchus was seen close in shore, carrying a press
of sail and closely pursued by the Spanish vessels. The Leander bore down with a flowing sheet
upon the enemy, fired a few ineffective shot, and then, for some reason best known to her captain,
or to Miranda, hauled on to the wind, and sailed away, leaving the schooners to take care of
themselves. The guardacostas soon took possession of both, and carried their prizes, with sixty
prisoners, into Puerto Cabello,[1] before the eyes of their astonished and indignant comrades,
who could not understand such a want of courage or conduct on the part of their chief.

[Footnote 1: The unfortunate men taken in the schooners were tried at Puerto Cabello for piracy.
Ten officers were hanged, their heads cut off and stuck upon poles, and six of them sent to
Caracas, two to Laguayra, and two set up at Puerto Cabello. The other prisoners were sentenced
to the chain-gang. The execution took place on the 21st of July, the day before Smith was acquitted
in New York.]

After this disaster, the Leander sailed for Bonair for water. Miranda still assumed a confident
tone, and called a council of war to deliberate whether they should attempt a landing at Coro.
The council decided, that, in view of the loss they had sustained, it would be advisable to
make for Trinidad in search of reinforcements. With wind and tide against them, and a slow
ship, the voyage was long. They were reduced to their last barrel of bread, when they fell
in with the English sloop-of-war Lily, Captain Campbell, who was looking for Miranda, and who
sent supplies of all kinds on board. On the 6th of June, they ran into Bridgetown, Barbadoes.
Admiral Cochrane, who commanded on that station, gave Miranda every assistance in his power,
and offered to put some of his smaller vessels under his orders, upon condition that all goods
imported into the new state of Columbia in British bottoms should be assessed ten per cent,
lower than the products of any other nation, except the United States. Miranda signed a formal
agreement to this effect, and sailed for Trinidad, accompanied by H.B.M. ships Lily and Express,
and the Trimmer, a transport schooner. Captain Lewis, whose repeated quarrels with Miranda
had affected the discipline of the force, resigned at Barbadoes. He was succeeded by Captain
Johnson, a daring fellow, who risked and lost life and property in this expedition.

The Governor of Trinidad, like all the English of the Gulf, was well disposed to aid in an
attack on the Spanish Provinces. Eighty volunteers of all nations, most of them worthless fellows
and candidates for a commission, joined the fleet at this place. Miranda was once more in high
spirits. His army amounted to four hundred men, and he had secured the cooperation of the English.
Success seemed certain. He issued a new proclamation to his followers, headed "To Victory and
Wealth," and set sail, accompanied by seven small British war-vessels and three transports.

On the 2d of August, the fleet anchored within nine miles of La Vela de Coro. The next day
two hundred and ninety men were landed in the boats of the squadron. They were all "Mirandanians,"
the English furnishing only the means of transportation and the necessary supplies. As the
boats approached the shore, they were fired upon from the bushes which lined the beach. The
Columbians jumped into the water and charged; the Spaniards retreated to a fort near the shore.
This was carried, sword in hand,--the Spaniards leaping from the walls and flying in all directions.
Miranda then formed his party, and marched to the town, a quarter of a mile distant, which
was evacuated by the Spaniards with such precipitation that they left their cannon loaded.
The inhabitants had fled, as well as the military, carrying off all their movable property.
The Columbian colors were hoisted, flags of truce sent in all directions, the printed proclamations
distributed about the neighboring country; but in vain; nobody appeared.

The same evening the Liberators marched twelve miles in a northwesterly direction to Coro.
They arrived an hour before dawn, and found the town silent and deserted. Dividing themselves
into two parties, they entered cautiously on opposite sides, for fear of an ambuscade,--but,
unfortunately, when the detachments met in the Grand Plaza, they mistook each other, in the
dusk of the morning, for the enemy, and fired. Miranda's most efficient officer fell, shot
through both thighs. One man was killed, and seven others badly wounded. Not a soul was found
in the place, except those who were too old or too ill to move, and the occupants of the prison.
The jailer presented himself, surrendered his keys, and informed the General that the Governor
had forced the citizens to leave their homes. Miranda remained in the deserted town for five
days, endeavoring, by the most alluring proclamations, to bring the inhabitants back. But it
was useless. Not a man presented himself. He then lost heart, and, instead of advancing into
the country, ordered a retreat to La Vela, and reembarked on the 19th.

Those he left behind in the Leander had been still more unfortunate. Captain Johnson had gone
in the boats to a river three or four miles to the eastward, for water, and, while filling
his casks, was set upon by a party of Spanish soldiers. He was killed, fighting bravely, with
fifteen of his men. The remainder escaped with difficulty.

The discomfited invaders sailed for the Island of Aruba, where their English allies, pretty
well satisfied that nothing could be done with this expedition, left them. Miranda landed his
men and took formal possession of the island. He sent an ambassador to the Governor of the
neighboring island of Curacoa, requesting him to surrender. This request was declined. He was
equally unsuccessful in a mission to Jamaica, begging for assistance from Admiral Dacres. Dacres
refused, on the ground that he had no orders from his Government.

Miranda remained at Aruba, drilling, issuing proclamations, and holding courts martial, until
the want of provisions brought the enterprise to an end. An English ship-of-war, which touched
at the island, offered him a safe means of escape. On the 29th of October, after a passage
of twenty-five days, the Liberators arrived at Trinidad, and disbanded in disgrace. The blue
and yellow uniforms they had worn with pride, as "Columbians," on their last visit, were hastily
laid aside to escape the scoff of the rabble, who jeered them as adventurers and merry-andrews.
Miranda kept out of sight until he could get the opportunity of a passage to England. All his
followers who could find means to quit the island made their way home as best they could. To
conclude the business, the Leander was sold by order of the courts, and the few poor fellows
who had remained by her received a small share of the proceeds. Nobody else was paid the smallest
fraction of the sums the General had so liberally promised.

That a commander, safely landed with three hundred fighting men, in possession of Coro, whose
peninsular situation might have afforded him an inexpugnable position, master of the sea, and
backed by an English fleet, should have retreated, without effecting anything, from a country
ripe for rebellion since the conspiracy of 1797, can be explained only in one way: he must
have been ignorant of the real feelings of the people, and totally unfit to lead such an expedition.
Miranda had what we may call a pretty talent for war. He had studied the principles of the
art, and had seen some service. Excited by the splendid career of Washington, he, like a certain
distinguished Frenchman, determined to imitate him and become the liberator of his country.
When the Giant at a show bends the iron bar, it seems so easy that every strong man in the
crowd thinks he can do as much, until he tries. It needs a Giant of the first class to handle
a people in revolution. Miranda was not made of that kind of stuff. He was weak and inefficient,
fond of mystery and pomp, easily affected by flattery, loving dearly to hear himself talk,
and unable to control his temper. His incessant quarrels with Captain Lewis were one cause
of the loss of the schooners off Puerto Cabello. A want of quickness and energy was felt in
all his operations. Delays are proverbially dangerous, but in a coup de main fatal. The time
wasted by him at Jacquemel and at Aruba was employed by the Spaniards in making preparations
for defence. They had few troops, and did not dare to trust the natives with arms, but they
succeeded in persuading them that Miranda and his men were pagans and pirates, whose triumph
would be ten times more insufferable than the rule of the mother country.

If Miranda was incompetent to carry out a liberating expedition, he had wonderful success in
talking it up. For twenty years he had carried this project about with him in America and in
Europe. It was elaborated to perfection in every part, and there were answers prepared to every
objection. The new government was to be modelled upon the English Constitution,--an hereditary
chief, to be called Inca,--a senate, nominated by the chief, composed of nobles, but not hereditary,--and
a chamber elected by suffrage, limited by a property qualification. He had collected all the
statistics of population and of trade, to show what commercial advantages the world might expect
from a free South American government. And, "rising upon a wind of prophecy," he already saw
in the future a ship-canal across the Isthmus of Panama, and the Nicaragua route opened. He
had laid these plans before Catharine of Russia, who gave him money to help them on. Mr. Pitt
listened, promised him assistance in return for commercial privileges, and kept him in pay
for years. The French Revolutionists were eager to furnish him with an army and a fleet. Rufus
King, American Ambassador at London, sent word of the scheme to Hamilton and Knox, who both
approved of it. Miranda seems to have made the same impression upon everybody. His extensive
travels and acquaintance with distinguished men, his knowledge of facts, dates, and figures,
his retentive and ready memory, his wonderful cleverness in persuading his hearers, are spoken
of in the same terms by all. Dr. Rush wrote to a friend, that Miranda had dined with him, and
had talked about European politics as if he had been "in the inside of all the kings and princes."
He might have been a second Count de St. Germain, if he had lived in the reign of Louis XIV.,
instead of in an era when men had abandoned the philosopher's stone, and were seeking in politics
for a new magnum opus, Constitutions, as the certain means of perfecting the human species.

Everybody was mistaken in him. Although he talked "like an angel," in action he was worthless.
If he had never undertaken to carry out his plans, he might have left an excellent reputation,
and have remained in South American memory as the possible Father of his Country: Capax imperii,
nisi imperasset. A short sketch of his career may be interesting, before we dismiss him again
to the oblivion from which we have evoked him for this month.

Miranda entered the Spanish army in America at the age of seventeen, and was advanced to be
Colonel, a grade seldom or never before reached by a Creole. He left the service before the
close of the Revolutionary War, travelled in the United States, and was admitted to the society
of Washington and of the leading men of the day. Here, his attainments, quickness, and insatiable
curiosity attracted attention. He knew the topography and strategy of every battle fought during
the war better than our officers who had been on the field, and soon made himself familiar
with parties, and even with family connections in this country. His constant topic was the
independence of South America. After the peace of 1783, Miranda went to England: Colonel Smith
was then Secretary of John Adams, the American Minister, and the acquaintance between them
began in London, which ended so disastrously twenty years later in New York. Leaving England,
he travelled over Europe. At Cherson, he attracted the notice of Prince Potemkin, who presented
him to the Empress at Kiew. In 1790, when the dispute about Nootka Sound[*] threatened to produce
a war between Great Britain and Spain, he reappeared in London, and proposed to Mr. Pitt his
scheme for revolutionizing the American Colonies. Pitt at once engaged his services, but Spain
yielded, and the project could not be carried out. Miranda crossed to France, accepted a command
in the Republican army, and served, with credit, in the Netherlands, under Dumouriez, until
the Battle of Neerwinden. In November, 1792, the French rulers conceived the idea of revolutionizing
Spain, both in Europe and in America. Brissot suggested Miranda as the fittest person for this
purpose. He was to take twelve thousand troops of the line from St. Domingo, enlist, in addition,
ten or fifteen thousand "braves mulatres," and make a descent, with this force, upon the Main.
"Le nom de Miranda," wrote Brissot to Dumouriez, "lui vaudra une armee; et ses talens, son
courage, son genie, tout nous repond du succes." Monge, Gensonne, Claviere, Petion, were pleased
with the plan, but Miranda started difficulties. The French system was too democratic for his
taste, and the pressure of affairs in Europe soon turned the attention of Brissot and his friends
in another direction.

[Footnote *: In May, 1789, the Spanish sloop-of-war Princesa seized four English vessels engaged
in a trade with the natives of Vancouver's Island, and took them into a Mexican port as prizes,
on the ground that they had violated the Spanish Colonial laws. The English government denied
the claim of Spain to those distant regions, and insisted upon ample satisfaction. The King
of Spain was obliged to submit to avoid war, but the question of territory was left open.]

After the disastrous affair of Neerwinden, Miranda was accused of misconduct, arrested, and
sent to Paris for trial, but was acquitted by the Tribunal Revolutionnaire, and conducted home
in triumph. He was again imprisoned for incivisme, during the Reign of Terror, and did not
recover his liberty until the general jail-delivery which followed the death of Robespierre.
He was seized for the third time in 1797, by the Directory, as an adherent of the Pichegru
faction, and banished from France.

In January, 1798, Mr. Pitt again sent for Miranda, and a new plan was arranged for the emancipation
of South America. On this occasion, the cooeperation of the United States was confidently relied
upon. Both Pitt and our own rulers foresaw that Spain must inevitably fall a prey to France,
and that the whole of her American possessions would probably share her fate. Our relations
with France were in so critical a condition, that we were making preparations for defence;
and it was, of course, of the highest importance to our safety, that the Floridas and Louisiana
should not fall into the hands of a powerful enemy. It was proposed, consequently, to form
a commercial and defensive alliance between England, the United States, and South America.
We were to get the Floridas and Louisiana to the Mississippi, and in return to furnish a land-force
of ten thousand men. Great Britain would provide the fleet, in consideration of certain important
advantages in trade. Miranda kept his friends in the United States fully advised of the progress
of affairs. Hamilton and Knox were in favor of the project, provided war were declared. Our
provisional army might then have played a brilliant part. But there was no war. President Adams
refused to listen to Miranda's communications, and patched up our difficulties with France.
Nothing was done by the English.

In 1801 Lord Sidmouth revived Miranda's hopes, but the Peace of Amiens put a stop to the preparations.
In 1804 Mr. Pitt was again at the head of affairs, and renewed his intercourse with Miranda.
Orders were given to prepare ships and to enrol men, when the hopes of the third coalition
again suspended the execution of the project.

It was after this last blow from Fortune that Miranda came to New York and fitted out the expedition
we have undertaken to describe. His disastrous failure seemed neither to destroy his hopes,
nor to shake the confidence of his English friends in his pretensions. When he returned to
England from Trinidad, he found ministers prepared to embark with energy in the South American
scheme. This time a fleet and an army were really assembled at Cork, and Sir Arthur Wellesley
was to command them,--when the Spanish Revolution broke out, altered at once the face of affairs
in Europe, and turned Sir Arthur and his army toward Portugal, to begin that brilliant series
of campaigns which drove the French out of the Peninsula.

Few men fix their minds pertinaciously upon an object, and adhere to the pursuit through life,
without at least a partial attainment of it. Miranda, the victim of so many bitter disappointments,
at last found himself for a few months in the position he had so often dreamed of. When the
news of the fall of Seville, and of the dispersion of the Junta who governed in the name of
Ferdinand VII., reached South America, open rebellion broke out at Caracas. King Joseph Bonaparte
had sent over a proclamation, imploring his trusty and well-beloved South Americans to come
to his paternal arms,--or, if they would not do that, at least to set up a government for themselves,
and not take part with Ferdinand and England. His emissaries were hunted down and hanged, wherever
caught. Revolutionary Juntas were established all over the country. On the 19th of April, 1810,
the American Confederation of Venezuela, in Congress assembled, undertook to rule in the name
of Ferdinand VII., but in reality as an independent government. Miranda was called to the command
of the native army. On the 5th of July, 1811, the Congress published their Declaration of Independence,
and a Constitution, both of them remarkable state-papers. In point of liberality of sentiment
and elegance of style they will bear comparison with our own celebrated documents of '76 and
'87. Indeed, in all these Spanish political plays, the plot has been good, the text admirable,
but the actors so poor as to spoil the piece. So it fell out in Venezuela. At first the Patriots
were successful; Miranda defeated the Royalists and took Valencia. The principal towns fell
into the hands of the insurgents. Then, came the terrible earthquake of 1812, which not only
shattered the resources of the Patriots, but was skilfully used by the Church as a proof that
Providence had taken sides against the rebels. Monteverde, the Spanish general, recaptured
Valencia. Congress placed the dictatorship with unlimited power in Miranda's hands, but he
was not the man for desperate situations. On the 6th of July, the Royalists took Puerto Cabello;
Caracas fell on the 28th; and Miranda, betrayed by his own party into the hands of the Spaniards,
was sent a prisoner to Cadiz in October. Simon Bolivar and others, men of different mettle,
regained all that had been lost, and cut loose the Colonies from Spain. From California to
Cape Horn the inestimable system of self-government was established. According to the theory,
the South Americans should have been prosperous and happy; but, unfortunately, the result has
been murder, robbery, and general ruin. The burden of taking care of one's self, which the
North American had the strength to bear, has crushed the poor half-caste Spaniard. There are
persons who assert that a political regimen which agrees so well with us must therefore be
good for all others. It may be instructive to such believers in system to compare Humboldt's
narrative of the cultivation shown by the great Colonial Universities of Mexico, Quito, and
Lima, of the pleasing Creole society that entertained him, and the peaceful quiet and security
he noticed throughout country, with the relations of modern travellers or newspaper-correspondents
who visit those semi-barbarous regions.

Don Francisco de Miranda did not live to hear of the freedom of his "Columbia." Before the
close of the year 1812 he died in prison, at Cadiz.  Thus perished the most gentlemanlike of
filibusters, since the days when Jason sailed in the Argo to extend the blessing of Greek institutions
over Colchis and to appropriate the Golden Fleece.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY. I should think 'twas time 'twas over! Briggs's folks's' buried two children
with 'em laaest week. Th' old Doctor, he'd h' ker'd 'em threugh.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE.

The romance of "The Marble Faun" will be widely welcomed, not only for its intrinsic merits,
but because it is a sign that its writer, after a silence of seven or eight years, has determined
to resume his place in the ranks of authorship. In his preface he tells us, that in each of
his previous publications he had unconsciously one person in his eye, whom he styles his "gentle
reader." He meant it "for that one congenial friend, more comprehensive of his purposes, more
appreciative of his. success, more indulgent of his short-comings, and, in all respects, closer
and kinder than a brother,--that all-sympathizing critic, in short, whom an author never actually
meets, but to whom he implicitly makes his appeal, whenever he is conscious of having done
his best." He believes that this reader did once exist for him, and duly received the scrolls
he flung "upon whatever wind was blowing, in the faith that they would find him out." "But,"
he questions, "is he extant now? In these many years since he last heard from me, may he not
have deemed his earthly task accomplished, and have withdrawn to the paradise of gentle readers,
wherever it may be, to the enjoyments of which his kindly charity on my behalf must surely
have entitled him?" As we feel assured that Hawthorne's reputation has been steadily growing
with the lapse of time, he has no cause to fear that the longevity of his gentle reader will
not equal his own. As long as he writes, there will be readers enough to admire and appreciate.

The publication of this new romance seems to offer us a fitting occasion to attempt some description
of the peculiarities of the genius of which it is the latest offspring, and to hazard some
judgments on its predecessors. It is more than twenty-five years since Hawthorne began that
remarkable series of stories and essays which are now collected in the volumes of "Twice-Told
Tales," "The Snow Image and other Tales," and "Mosses from an Old Manse." From the first he
was recognized by such readers as he chanced to find as a man of genius, yet for a long time
he enjoyed, in his own words, the distinction of being "the obscurest man of letters in America."
His readers were "gentle" rather than enthusiastic; their fine delight in his creations was
a private perception of subtile excellences of thought and style, too refined and self-satisfying
to be contagious; and the public was untouched, whilst the "gentle" reader was full of placid
enjoyment. Indeed, we fear that this kind of reader is something of an Epicurean,--receives
a new genius as a private blessing, sent by a benign Providence to quicken a new life in his
somewhat jaded sense of intellectual pleasure; and after having received a fresh sensation,
he is apt to be serenely indifferent whether the creator of it starve bodily or pine mentally
from the lack of a cordial human shout of recognition.

There would appear, on a slight view of the matter, no reason for the little notice which Hawthorne's
early productions received. The subjects were mostly drawn from the traditions and written
records of New England, and gave the "beautiful strangeness" of imagination to objects, incidents,
and characters which were familiar facts in the popular mind. The style, while it had a purity,
sweetness, and grace which satisfied the most fastidious and exacting taste, had, at the same
time, more than the simplicity and clearness of an ordinary school-book. But though the subjects
and the style were thus popular, there was something in the shaping and informing spirit which
failed to awaken interest, or awakened interest without exciting delight. Misanthropy, when
it has its source in passion,--when it is fierce, bitter, fiery, and scornful,--when it vigorously
echoes the aggressive discontent of the world, and furiously tramples on the institutions and
the men luckily rather than rightfully in the ascendant,--this is always popular; but a misanthropy
which springs from insight,--a misanthropy which is lounging, languid, sad, and depressing,--a
misanthropy which remorselessly looks through cursing misanthropes and chirping men of the
world with the same sure, detecting glance of reason,--a misanthropy which has no fanaticism,
and which casts the same ominous doubt on subjectively morbid as on subjectively moral action,--a
misanthropy which has no respect for impulses, but has a terrible perception of spiritual laws,--this
is a misanthropy which can expect no wide recognition; and it would be vain to deny that traces
of this kind of misanthropy are to be found in Hawthorne's earlier, and are not altogether
absent from his later works. He had spiritual insight, but it did not penetrate to the sources
of spiritual joy; and his deepest glimpses of truth were calculated rather to sadden than to
inspire. A blandly cynical distrust of human nature was the result of his most piercing glances
into the human soul. He had humor, and sometimes humor of a delicious kind; but this sunshine
of the soul was but sunshine breaking through or lighting up a sombre and ominous cloud. There
was also observable in his earlier stories a lack of vigor, as if the power of his nature had
been impaired by the very process--which gave depth and excursiveness to his mental vision.
Throughout, the impression is conveyed of a shy recluse, alternately bashful in disposition
and bold in thought, gifted with original and various capacities, but capacities which seemed
to have developed themselves in the shade, without sufficient energy of will or desire to force
them, except fitfully, into the sunlight. Shakspeare calls moonlight the sunlight sick; and
it is in some such moonlight of the mind that the genius of Hawthorne found its first expression.
A mild melancholy, sometimes deepening into gloom, sometimes brightened into a "humorous sadness,"
characterized his early creations. But that "something within his own mind" was often an unpleasant
something, perhaps a ghastly occult perception of deformity and sin in what appeared outwardly
fair and good; so that the reader felt a secret dissatisfaction with the disposition which
directed the genius, even in the homage he awarded to the genius itself.

Yet, after admitting these peculiarities, nobody who is now drawn to the "Twice-Told Tales,"
from his interest in the later romances of Hawthorne, can fail to wonder a little at the limited
number of readers they attracted on their original publication. For many of these stories are
at once a representation of early New-England life and a criticism on it. They have much of
the deepest truth of history in them. "The Legends of the Province House," "The Gray Champion,"
"The Gentle Boy," "The Minister's Black Veil," "Endicott and the Red Cross," not to mention
others, contain important matter which cannot be found in Bancroft or Grahame. They exhibit
the inward struggles of New-England men and women with some of the darkest problems of existence,
and have more vital import to thoughtful minds than the records of Indian or Revolutionary
warfare. In the "Prophetic Pictures," "Fancy's Show-Box," "The Great Carbuncle," "The Haunted
Mind," and "Edward Fane's Rose-Bud," there are flashes of moral insight, which light up, for
the moment, the darkest recesses of the individual mind; and few sermons reach to the depth
of thought and sentiment from which these seemingly airy sketches draw their sombre life. It
is common, for instance, for religious moralists to insist on the great spiritual truth, that
wicked thoughts and impulses, which circumstances prevent from passing into wicked acts, are
still deeds in the sight of God; but the living truth subsides into a dead truism, as enforced
by commonplace preachers. In "Fancy's Show-Box," Hawthorne seizes the prolific idea; and the
respectable merchant and respected church-member, in the still hour of his own meditation,
convicts himself of being a liar, cheat, thief, seducer, and murderer, as he casts his glance
over the mental events which form his spiritual biography. Interspersed with serious histories
and moralities like these, are others which embody the sweet and playful, though still thoughtful
and slightly saturnine action of Hawthorne's mind,--like "The Seven Vagabonds," "Snow-Flakes,"
"The Lily's Quest," "Mr. Higgenbotham's Catastrophe," "Little Annie's Ramble," "Sights from
a Steeple," "Sunday at Home," and "A Rill from the Town-Pump."

The "Mosses from an Old Manse" are intellectually and artistically an advance from the "Twice-Told
Tales." The twenty-three stories and essays which make up the volumes are almost perfect of
their kind. Each is complete in itself, and many might be expanded into long romances by the
simple method of developing the possibilities of their shadowy types of character into appropriate
incidents. In description, narration, allegory, humor, reason, fancy, subtilty, inventiveness,
they exceed the best productions of Addison; but they want Addison's sensuous contentment and
sweet and kindly spirit. The defect of the serious stories is, that character is introduced,
not as thinking, but as the illustration of thought. The persons are ghostly, with a sad lack
of flesh and blood. They are phantasmal symbols of a reflective and imaginative analysis of
human passions and aspirations. The dialogue, especially, is bookish, as though the personages
knew their speech was to be printed, and were careful of the collocation and rhythm of their
words. The author throughout is evidently more interested in his large, wide, deep, indolently
serene, and lazily sure and critical view of the conflict of ideas and passions, than he is
with the individuals who embody them. He shows moral insight without moral earnestness. He
cannot contract his mind to the patient delineation of a moral individual, but attempts to
use individuals in order to express the last results of patient moral perception. Young Goodman
Brown and Roger Malvin are not persons; they are the mere, loose, personal expression of subtile
thinking. "The Celestial Railroad," "The Procession of Life," "Earth's Holocaust," "The Bosom
Serpent," indicate thought of a character equally deep, delicate, and comprehensive, but the
characters are ghosts of men rather than substantial individualities. In the "Mosses from an
Old Manse," we are really studying the phenomena of human nature, while, for the time, we beguile
ourselves into the belief that we are following the fortunes of individual natures.

Up to this time the writings of Hawthorne conveyed the impression of a genius in which insight
so dominated over impulse, that it was rather mentally and morally curious than mentally and
morally impassioned. The quality evidently wanting to its full expression was intensity. In
the romance of "The Scarlet Letter" he first made his genius efficient by penetrating it with
passion. This book forced itself into attention by its inherent power; and the author's name,
previously known only to a limited circle of readers, suddenly became a familiar word in the
mouths of the great reading public of America and England. It may be said, that it "captivated"
nobody, but took everybody captive. Its power could neither be denied nor resisted. There were
growls of disapprobation from novel-readers, that Hester Prynne and the Rev. Mr. Dimmesdale
were subjected to cruel punishments unknown to the jurisprudence of fiction,--that the author
was an inquisitor who put his victims on the rack,--and that neither amusement nor delight
resulted from seeing the contortions and hearing the groans of these martyrs of sin; but the
fact was no less plain that Hawthorne had for once compelled the most superficial lovers of
romance to submit themselves to the magic of his genius. The readers of Dickens voted him,
with three times three, to the presidency of their republic of letters; the readers of Hawthorne
were caught by a coup d'etat, and fretfully submitted to a despot whom they could not depose.

The success of "The Scarlet Letter" is an example of the advantage which an author gains by
the simple concentration of his powers on one absorbing subject. In the "Twice-Told Tales"
and the "Mosses from an Old Manse" Hawthorne had exhibited a wider range of sight and insight
than in "The Scarlet Letter." Indeed, in the little sketch of "Endicott and the Red Cross,"
written twenty years before, he had included in a few sentences the whole matter which he afterwards
treated in his famous story. Here is the germ of the whole pathos and terror of "The Scarlet
Letter"; but it is hardly noted in the throng of symbols, equally pertinent, in the few pages
of the little sketch from which we have quoted.

Two characteristics of Hawthorne's genius stand plainly out, in the conduct and characterization
of the romance of "The Scarlet Letter," which were less obviously prominent in his previous
works. The first relates to his subordination of external incidents to inward events. Mr. James's
"solitary horseman" does more in one chapter than Hawthorne's hero in twenty chapters; but
then James deals with the arms of men, while Hawthorne deals with their souls. Hawthorne relies
almost entirely for the interest of his story on what is felt and done within the minds of
his characters. Even his most picturesque descriptions and narratives are only one-tenth matter
to nine-tenths spirit. The results that follow from one external act of folly or crime are
to him enough for an Iliad of woes.

The second characteristic of his genius is connected with the first. With his insight of individual
souls he combines a far deeper insight of the spiritual laws which govern the strangest aberrations
of individual souls. But it seems to us that his mental eye, keen-sighted and far-sighted as
it is, overlooks the merciful modifications of the austere code whose pitiless action it so
clearly discerns. In his long and patient brooding over the spiritual phenomena of Puritan
life, it is apparent, to the least critical observer, that he has imbibed a deep personal antipathy
to the Puritanic ideal of character; but it is no less apparent that his intellect and imagination
have been strangely fascinated by the Puritanic idea of justice. His brain has been subtly
infected by the Puritanic perception of Law, without being warmed by the Puritanic faith in
Grace. Individually, he would much prefer to have been one of his own "Seven Vagabonds" rather
than one of the austerest preachers of the primitive church of New England; but the austerest
preacher of the primitive church of New England would have been more tender and considerate
to a real Mr. Dimmesdale and a real Hester Prynne than this modern romancer has been to their
typical representatives in the world of imagination. Throughout "The Scarlet Letter" we seem
to be following the guidance of an author who is personally good-natured, but intellectually
and morally relentless.

"The House of the Seven Gables," Hawthorne's next work, while it has less concentration of
passion and tension of mind than "The Scarlet Letter," includes a wider range of observation,
reflection, and character; and the morality, dreadful as fate, which hung like a black cloud
over the personages of the previous story, is exhibited in more relief. Although the book has
no imaginative creation equal to little Pearl, it still contains numerous examples of characterization
at once delicate and deep. Clifford, especially, is a study in psychology, as well as a marvellously
subtile delineation of enfeebled manhood. A weird fancy, sporting with the facts detected by
a keen observation, gives to every gable of the Seven Gables, every room in the House, every
burdock growing rankly before the door, a symbolic significance. The queer mansion is haunted,--haunted
with thoughts which every moment are liable to take ghostly shape. All the Pyncheons who have
resided in it appear to have infected the very timbers and walls with the spiritual essence
of their lives, and each seems ready to pass from a memory into a presence. The stern theory
of the author regarding the hereditary transmission of family qualities, and the visiting of
the sins of the fathers on the heads of their children, almost wins our reluctant assent through
the pertinacity with which the generations of the Pyncheon race are made not merely to live
in the blood and brain of their descendants, but to cling to their old abiding-place on earth,
so that to inhabit the house is to breathe the Pyncheon soul and assimilate the Pyncheon individuality.
The whole representation, masterly as it is, considered as an effort of intellectual and imaginative
power, would still be morally bleak, were it not for the sunshine and warmth radiated from
the character of Phoebe. In this delightful creation Hawthorne for once gives himself up to
homely human nature, and has succeeded in delineating a New-England girl, cheerful, blooming,
practical, affectionate, efficient, full of innocence and happiness, with all the "handiness"
and native sagacity of her class, and so true and close to Nature that the process by which
she is slightly idealized is completely hidden.

In this romance there is also more humor than in any of his other works. It peeps out, even
in the most serious passages, in a kind of demure rebellion against the fanaticism of his remorseless
intelligence. In the description of the Pyncheon poultry, which we think unexcelled by anything
in Dickens for quaintly fanciful humor, the author seems to indulge in a sort of parody on
his own doctrine of the hereditary transmission of family qualities. At any rate, that strutting
chanticleer, with his two meagre wives and one wizened chicken, is a sly side fleer at the
tragic aspect of the law of descent. Miss Hepzibah Pyncheon, her shop, and her customers, are
so delightful, that the reader would willingly spare a good deal of Clifford and Judge Pyncheon
and Holgrave, for more details of them and Phoebe. Indeed, one cannot but regret that Hawthorne
should be so economical of his undoubted stores of humor,--and that, in the two romances he
has since written, humor, in the form of character, does not appear at all.

Before proceeding to the consideration of "The Blithedale Romance," it is necessary to say
a few words on the seeming separation of Hawthorne's genius from his will. He has none of that
ability which enabled Scott and enables Dickens to force their powers into action, and to make
what was begun in drudgery soon assume the character of inspiration. Hawthorne cannot thus
use his genius; his genius always uses him. This is so true, that he often succeeds better
in what calls forth his personal antipathies than in what calls forth his personal sympathies.
His life of General Pierce, for instance, is altogether destitute of life; yet in writing it
he must have exerted himself to the utmost, as his object was to urge the claims of an old
and dear friend to the Presidency of the Republic. The style, of course, is excellent, as it
is impossible for Hawthorne to write bad English, but the genius of the man has deserted him.
General Pierce, whom he loves, he draws so feebly, that one doubts, while reading the biography,
if such a man exists; Hollingsworth, whom he hates, is so vividly characterized, that the doubt
is, while we read the romance, whether such a man can possibly be fictitious.

Midway between such a work as the "Life of General Pierce" and "The Scarlet Letter" may be
placed "The Wonder-Book" and "Tanglewood Tales." In these Hawthorne's genius distinctly appears,
and appears in its most lovable, though not in its deepest form. These delicious stories, founded
on the mythology of Greece, were written for children, but they delight men and women as well.
Hawthorne never pleases grown people so much as when he writes with an eye to the enjoyment
of little people.

Now "The Blithedale Romance" is far from being so pleasing a performance as "Tanglewood Tales,"
yet it very much better illustrates the operation, indicates the quality, and expresses the
power, of the author's genius. His great books appear not so much created by him as through
him. They have the character of revelations,--he, the instrument, being often troubled with
the burden they impose on his mind. His profoundest glances into individual souls are like
the marvels of clairvoyance. It would seem, that, in the production of such a work as "The
Blithedale Romance," his mind had hit accidentally, as it were, on an idea or fact mysteriously
related to some morbid sentiment in the inmost core of his nature, and connecting itself with
numerous scattered observations of human life, lying unrelated in his imagination. In a sort
of meditative dream, his intellect drifts in the direction to which the subject points, broods
patiently over it, looks at it, looks into it, and at last looks through it to the law by which
it is governed. Gradually, individual beings, definite in spiritual quality, but shadowy in
substantial form, group themselves around this central conception, and by degrees assume an
outward body and expression corresponding to their internal nature. On the depth and intensity
of the mental mood, the force of the fascination it exerts over him, and the length of time
it holds him captive, depend the solidity and substance of the individual characterizations.
In this way Miles Coverdale, Hollingsworth, Westervelt, Zenobia, and Priscilla become real
persons to the mind which has called them into being. He knows every secret and watches every
motion of their souls, yet is, in a measure, independent of them, and pretends to no authority
by which he can alter the destiny which consigns them to misery or happiness. They drift to
their doom by the same law by which they drifted across the path of his vision. Individually,
he abhors Hollingsworth, and would like to annihilate Westervelt, yet he allows the superb
Zenobia to be their victim; and if his readers object that the effect of the whole representation
is painful, he would doubtless agree with them, but profess his incapacity honestly to alter
a sentence. He professes to tell the story as it was revealed to him; and the license in which
a romancer might indulge is denied to a biographer of spirits. Show him a fallacy in his logic
of passion and character, point out a false or defective step in his analysis, and he will
gladly alter the whole to your satisfaction; but four human souls, such as he has described,
being given, their mutual attractions and repulsions will end, he feels assured, in just such
a catastrophe as he has stated.

Eight years have passed since "The Blithedale Romance" was written, and during nearly the whole
of this period Hawthorne has resided abroad. "The Marble Faun," which must, on the whole, be
considered the greatest of his works, proves that his genius has widened and deepened in this
interval, without any alteration or modification of its characteristic merits and characteristic
defects. The most obvious excellence of the work is the vivid truthfulness of its descriptions
of Italian life, manners, and scenery; and, considered merely as a record of a tour in Italy,
it is of great interest and attractiveness. The opinions on Art, and the special criticisms
on the masterpieces of architecture, sculpture, and painting, also possess a value of their
own. The story might have been told, and the characters fully represented, in one-third of
the space devoted to them, yet description and narration are so artfully combined that each
assists to give interest to the other. Hawthorne is one of those true observers who concentrate
in observation every power of their minds. He has accurate sight and piercing insight. When
he modifies either the form or the spirit of the objects he describes, he does it either by
viewing them through the medium of an imagined mind or by obeying associations which they themselves
suggest. We might quote from the descriptive portions of the work a hundred pages, at least,
which would demonstrate how closely accurate observation is connected with the highest powers
of the intellect and imagination.

The style of the book is perfect of its kind, and, if Hawthorne had written nothing else, would
entitle him to rank among the great masters of English composition. Walter Savage Landor is
reported to have said of an author whom he knew in his youth, "My friend wrote excellent English,
a language now obsolete." Had "The Marble Faun" appeared before he uttered this sarcasm, the
wit of the remark would have been pointless. Hawthorne not only writes English, but the sweetest,
simplest, and clearest English that ever has been made the vehicle of equal depth, variety,
and subtilty of thought and emotion. His mind is reflected in his style as a face is reflected
in a mirror; and the latter does not give back its image with less appearance of effort than
the former. His excellence consists not so much in using common words as in making common words
express uncommon things. Swift, Addison, Goldsmith, not to mention others, wrote with as much
simplicity; but the style of neither embodies an individuality so complex, passions so strange
and intense, sentiments so fantastic and preternatural, thoughts so profound and delicate,
and imaginations so remote from the recognized limits of the ideal, as find an orderly outlet
in the pure English of Hawthorne. He has hardly a word to which Mrs. Trimmer would primly object,
hardly a sentence which would call forth the frosty anathema of Blair, Hurd, Kames, or Whately,
and yet he contrives to embody in his simple style qualities which would almost excuse the
verbal extravagances of Carlyle.

In regard to the characterization and plot of "The Marble Faun," there is room for widely varying
opinions. Hilda, Miriam, and Donatello will be generally received as superior in power and
depth to any of Hawthorne's previous creations of character; Donatello, especially, must be
considered one of the most original and exquisite conceptions in the whole range of romance;
but the story in which they appear will seem to many an unsolved puzzle, and even the tolerant
and interpretative "gentle reader" will be troubled with the unsatisfactory conclusion. It
is justifiable for a romancer to sting the curiosity of his readers with a mystery, only on
the implied obligation to explain it at last; but this story begins in mystery only to end
in mist. The suggestive faculty is tormented rather than genially excited, and in the end is
left a prey to doubts. The central idea of the story, the necessity of sin to convert such
a creature as Donatello into a moral being, is also not happily illustrated in the leading
event. When Donatello kills the wretch who malignantly dogs the steps of Miriam, all readers
think that Donatello committed no sin at all; and the reason is, that Hawthorne has deprived
the persecutor of Miriam of all human attributes, made him an allegorical representation of
one of the most fiendish forms of unmixed evil, so that we welcome his destruction with something
of the same feeling with which, in following the allegory of Spenser or Bunyan, we rejoice
in the hero's victory over the Blatant Beast or Giant Despair. Conceding, however, that Donatello's
act was murder, and not "justifiable homicide," we are still not sure that the author's conception
of his nature and of the change caused in his nature by that act, are carried out with a felicity
corresponding to the original conception.

In the first volume, and in the early part of the second, the author's hold on his design is
comparatively firm, but it somewhat relaxes as he proceeds, and in the end it seems almost
to escape from his grasp. Few can be satisfied with the concluding chapters, for the reason
that nothing is really concluded. We are willing to follow the ingenious processes of Calhoun's
deductive logic, because we are sure, that, however severely they task the faculty of attention,
they will lead to some positive result; but Hawthorne's logic of events leaves us in the end
bewildered in a labyrinth of guesses. The book is, on the whole, such a great book, that its
defects are felt with all the more force.

In this rapid glance at some of the peculiarities of Hawthorne's genius, we have not, of course,
been able to do full justice to the special merits of the works we have passed in review; but
we trust that we have said nothing which would convey the impression that we do not place them
among the most remarkable romances produced in an age in which romance-writing has called forth
some of the highest powers of the human mind. In intellect and imagination, in the faculty
of discerning spirits and detecting laws, we doubt if any living novelist is his equal; but
his genius, in its creative action, has been heretofore attracted to the dark rather than the
bright side of the interior life of humanity, and the geniality which evidently is in him has
rarely found adequate expression. In the many works which he may still be expected to write,
it is to be hoped that his mind will lose some of its sadness of tone without losing any of
its subtilty and depth; but, in any event, it would be unjust to deny that he has already done
enough to insure him a commanding position in American literature as long as American literature
has an existence.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Le Prime Quattro Edizioni della Divina Commedia Letteralmente Ristampate per Cura di G.G. WARREN
LORD VERNON. Londra: Presso Tommaso e Guglielmo Boone. MDCCCLVIII. 4to. pp. xxvi., 748.

The zeal with which the study of Dante has been followed by students in every country of Europe,
during the last forty years, is one of the most illustrative facts of the moral as well as
of the intellectual character of the period. The interest which has attracted men of the most
different tempers and persuasions to this study is not due alone to the poetic or historic
value of his works, however high we may place them in these respects, but also and especially
to the circumstance that they present a complete and distinct view of the internal life and
spiritual disposition of an age in which the questions which still chiefly concern men were
for the first time positively stated, and which exhibited in its achievements and its efforts
some of the highest qualities of human nature in a condition of vigor such as they have never
since shown. Dante himself combined a power of imagination beyond that of any other poet with
an intensity and directness of individual character not less extraordinary. The tendency of
modern civilization is to diminish rather than to strengthen the originality and independence
of individuals. Autocracy and democracy seem to have a like effect in reducing men to a uniform
level of thought and effort. And thus during a time when these two principles have been brought
into sharp conflict, it is not surprising that the most thoughtful students should turn to
the works of a man who by actual experience, or by force of imagination, comprehended all the
conditions of his own age, and exhibited in his life and in his writings an individualism of
the noblest sort. The conservative and the reformer, the king and the radical, the priest and
the heretic, the man of affairs and the man of letters, have taken their seats, side by side,
on the scholars' benches, before the same teacher, and, after listening to his large discourse,
have discussed among themselves the questions in religion, in philosophy, in morals, politics,
or history, which his words suggested or explained.

The success which has attended these studies has been in some degree proportioned to the zeal
with which they have been pursued. Dante is now better understood and more intelligently commented
than ever before. Much remains to be done as regards the clearing up of some difficult points
and the explanation of some dark passages,--and the obscurity in which Dante intentionally
involved some portions of his writings is such as to leave little hope that their absolute
meaning will ever be satisfactorily established. The history of the study of the poet, of the
comments on his meaning or his text, of the formation of the commonly received text, and of
the translations of the "Divina Commedia," affords much curious and entertaining matter to
the lover of purely literary and bibliographic narrative, and incidentally illustrates the
general character of each century since his death. As regards the settlement of the text, no
single publication has ever appeared of equal value to that of the magnificent volume the title
of which stands at the head of this notice. Lord Vernon has been known for many years as the
most munificent fosterer of Dantesque publications. One after another, precious and costly
books upon Dante have appeared, edited and printed at his expense, showing both a taste and
a liberality as honorable as unusual.

The first four editions of the "Divina Commedia," of which this volume is a reprint, are all
of excessive rarity. Although each is a document of the highest importance in determining the
text, few of the editors of the poem have had the means of consulting more than one or two
of them. The volumes are to be found united only in the Library of the British Museum, and
it is but a few years that even that great collection has included them all. They were printed
originally between 1470 and 1480 at Foligno, Jesi, Mantua, and Naples; and their chief value
arises from the fact that they present the various readings of three, if not four, early and
selected manuscripts. The doubt whether four manuscripts are represented by them is occasioned
by the similarity between the editions of Foligno and Naples, which are of such a sort (for
instance, correspondence in the most unlikely and odd misprints) as to prove that one must
have served as the basis of the other. But at the same time there are such differences between
them as indicate a separate revision of each, and possibly the consultation by their editors
of different codices.

Unfortunately, there is no edition of the "Divina Commedia" which can claim any special authority,--none
which has even in a small degree such authority as belongs to the first folio of Shakspeare's
plays. The text, as now received, rests upon a comparison of manuscripts and early printed
editions; and as affording to scholars the means of an independent critical judgment upon it,
a knowledge of the readings of these earliest editions is indispensable. But reprints of old
books are proverbially open to error. The reprint of the first folio Shakspeare is so full
of mistakes as to be of comparatively little use. The character of the Italian language is
such that inaccuracies are both easier and more dangerous than in English. Unless the reprint
of the first four editions were literally correct, it would be of little value. To secure this
correctness, so far as was possible, Lord Vernon engaged Mr. Panizzi, the chief librarian of
the British Museum, to edit the volume. A more competent editor never lived. Mr. Panizzi is
distinguished not more for his thorough and appreciative acquaintance with the poetic literature
of his country than for the extent and accuracy of his bibliographical knowledge and the refinement
of his bibliographic skill. There can be no doubt that the reprint is as exact as the most
rigid critic could desire. It is a monument of patience and of unpretending labor, as well
as of typographic beauty,--the work of the editor having been well seconded by that well-known
disciple of Aldus, Mr. Charles Whittingham.

Nor is it only in essential variations that these four texts are important, but also in the
illustration which their different spelling and their varying grammatical forms afford in regard
to the language used by Dante. At the time when these editions appeared, the orthography of
the Italian tongue was not yet established, and its grammatical inflections not in all cases
definitely settled. Printing had not yet been long enough in use to fix a permanent form upon
words. Moreover, the misprints themselves, which in these early editions are very numerous,
often give hints as to the changes which they may have induced, or as to the misplacing of
letters most likely to occur, and consequently most likely to lead to unobserved errors of
the text.

The style of the printing in these first editions, and the aid it may give, or the difficulty
it may occasion, are hardly to be understood without an extract. We open at Paradiso, xv. 70.
Cacciaguida has just spoken to his descendant, and then follows, according to the Foligno,
the following passage:--

  Io mi uolfi abeatrice et quella udio
    pria chio parlaffi et arofemi un cenno
    che fece crefcer lali aluoler mio

  Poi cominciai con leefftto elfenno
    come laprima equalita napparfe
    dun pefo per ciafchun di noi fi fenno

  Pero chel fole che nallumo et arfe
    colcaldo et conlaluce et fi iguali
    che tutte fimiglianze fono fcarfe.

This looks different enough from the common text, that, for example, of the Florentine edition
of 1844.

  I' mi volsi a Beatrice, e quella udio
    Pria ch' io parlassi, ed arrisemi un cenno
    Che fece crescer l' ale al voler mio.

  Poi cominciai cosi: L' affetto e il senno,
    Come la prima egualita v' apparse,
    D' un peso per ciascun di voi si fenno;

  Perocche al Sol, che v' allumo ed arse
    Col caldo e con la luce, en si iguali,
    Che tutte simiglianze sono scarse.

"I turned to Beatrice, and she heard before I spoke, and smiled on me a sign which added wings
to my desire. Then I began thus: Love and wisdom, as soon as the primal Equality has appeared
to you, become of one weight in each one of you; since in that Sun, which illuminates and warms
you with heat and light, they are so equal, that every comparison falls short."

The three other ancient texts are each quite as different from the modern one as that which
we have given, nor is the passage one that affords example of unusual variations. It would
have been easy to select many others varying much more than this, but our object is to show
the general character of these first editions. The second line of the quotation offers a various
reading which is supported by the arrossemi of the Jesi edition, and the arossemi of that of
Naples, as well as by the text of the comment of Benvenuto da Imola, and some other early authorities.
But even were the weight of evidence in its favor far greater than it is, it could never be
received in place of the thoroughly Dantesque and exquisite expression, arrisemi un cenno,
which is found in the Mantua edition. The napparse and the noi of the fifth and sixth lines
and the nallumo of the seventh are plainly mistakes of the scribe, puzzled by the somewhat
obscure meaning of the passage. Not one of the four editions before us gives us the right pronouns,
but they are found in the Bartolinian codex, (as well as many others,) and they are established
in the rare Aldine edition of 1502, the chief source of the modern text. In the eighth line,
where we now read en si iguali, the four give us et or e si iguali, a reading from which it
is difficult to extract a meaning, unless, with the Bartolinian, we omit the che in the preceding
line, and suppose the pero chel to stand, not for perocche al, but for perocche il,--or, retaining
the che, read the first words perocch' e il Sol, and take the clause as a parenthesis. The
meaning, according to the first supposition, would be, "Love and wisdom are of one measure
in you, (since the Sun [sc. the primal Equality] warmed and enlightened you,) and so equal
that," etc. According to the second supposition, we should translate, "Since it [the primal
Equality] is the sun which," etc. Benvenuto da Imola gives still a third reading, making the
e si iguali into ee si iguale, or, in modern orthography, e si iguale; but, as this spoils
the rhyme, it may be left out of account. There seems to us to be some ground for believing
the second reading suggested above,

  Perocch' e il Sol che v' allumo ed arse
  Con caldo e con la luce, e si iguali.

to be the true one, not only from its correspondence with most of the early copies, but from
the rarity of the use of en by Dante. There is but one other passage in the poem where it is
found (Purgatory, xvi. 121).

Such is an example, taken at random, of the doubts suggested and the illustration afforded
by these editions in the study of the text. Of course such minute criticism is of interest
only to those few who reckon Dante's words at their true worth. The common reader may be content
with the text as he finds it in common editions, But Dante, more than any other author, stimulates
his student to research as to his exact words; for no other author has been so choice in his
selection of them. He is not only the greatest modern master of condensation in style, but
he has the deepest insight into the value and force of separate words, the most delicate sense
of appropriateness in position, and in the highest degree the poetic faculty of selecting the
word most fitting for the thought and most characteristic in expression. It rarely happens
that the place of a word of any importance is a matter of indifference in his verse, no regard
being had to the rhythm; and every one sufficiently familiar with the language in which he
wrote to be conscious of its indefinable powers will feel, though he may be unable to point
out specifically, a marked distinction in the quality and combinations of the words in the
different parts of the poem. The description of the entrance to Hell, in the third canto of
the Inferno is, for instance, hardly more different from the description of the Terrestrial
Paradise, (Purgatory, xxviii.,) in scenery and imagery, than it is in the vague but absolute
qualities of language, in its rhythmical and verbal essence.

But, leaving these subtilties, let us look at some of the disputed passages of the poem, upon
which the texts before us may give their evidence.

In the episode of Francesca da Rimini, Mr. Barlow has recently attempted to give currency to
a various reading long known, but never accepted, in the line (Inferno, v. 102) in which Francesca
expresses her horror at the manner of her death. She says, il modo ancor m' offende, "the manner
still offends me." But for il modo Mr. Barlow would substitute il mondo, "the world still offends
me,"--that is, as we suppose, by holding a false opinion of her conduct. Mr. Barlow's suggestions
are always to be received with respect, but we cannot but think him wrong in proposing this
change. The spirits in Hell are not supposed to be aware of what is passing upon earth; they
are self-convicted, (Purgatory, xxvi. 85, 86,) and Francesca being doomed to eternal woe, the
world could not do her wrong by taxing her with sin; while, further, the shudder at the method
of her death, lasting even in torment, seems to us a far more imaginative conception than the
one proposed in its stead. Our four texts read elmodo.

In the famous simile (Inferno, iii. "Until the branch sees all its spoils upon the earth" is
a personification quite in Dante's manner. A confirmation of the value of this reading is given
by the fact that Tasso preferred it to the more common one, and in his treatise on the "Art
of Poetry" praises it as full of energy.

The value of this work of Lord Vernon's to the students of Dante, in enabling them to secure
accuracy in their statements in regard to the early texts, has been illustrated to us by finding
that Blanc, in his useful and excellent "Vocabolario Dantesco," has not unfrequently fallen
into error through his inability to consult those first editions. For example, in the line,
(Inferno, xviii. 43,) Percio a figuralo i piedi affissi, as it is commonly given, or, Percio
a firgurarlo gli occhi affissi, as it appears in some editions, Blanc, who prefers the latter
reading, states that gli occhi is found in "toutes les anciennes editions." But the truth is,
that those of Foligno and Naples read ipedi, that of Jesi has in piedi, and that of Mantua
i pie. The Aldine of 1502 is the earliest edition we have seen which has gli occhi.

In the episode of Ugolino, (Inferno, xxxiii.,) the verse which has given rise to more comment,
perhaps than any other is that (the 26th) in which the Count says, according to the usual reading,
that the narrow window in his tower had shown him many moons before he dreamed his evil dream:
Piu lune gia, quand' i' feci il mal sonno, "Many moons already, when I had my ill slumber."
But another reading, found in a majority of the early MSS. and editions, including those of
Jesi and Mantua gives the variation, piu lume; while the editions of Foligno and Naples give
lieve, which, affording no intelligible meaning, must be regarded as a mere misprint. In spite
of the weight of early authority for lume, the reading lune is perhaps to be preferred, as
giving in a word a brief expressive statement of a weary length of imprisonment,--while lume
would only serve to fix the moment of the dream as having been between the first dawn and the
full day. It is rare that the difference between an n and an m is of such marked effect.

In the sixth canto of Purgatory, verse 58, Virgil says, "Behold there a soul which a posta
looks toward us." Such at least is the common reading, and the words a posta are explained
as meaning fixedly. But this signification is somewhat forced, a posta, or apposta, being more
properly used with the meaning of on purpose or deliberately,--and the first four editions
supply a reading without this difficulty, and one which adds a new and significant feature
to the description. They unite in the omission of the letter a. The passage then bears the
meaning,--"But behold there a soul which, fixed, or placed, alone and all apart, looks toward
us." This reading, beside being supported by the weight of ancient authority, finds confirmation,
in the context, in the terms in which Sordello's aspect is described: "How lofty and disdainful
didst thou stand! how slow and decorous in the moving of thy eyes!"

A curious example of the mistakes of the old copies is afforded in the charming description
of the Terrestrial Paradise in the twenty-eighth canto of the Purgatory.

The lines are so plain that a mistake is difficult in them; but, of our four editions, the
Jesi is the only one which gives them correctly. Foligno and Naples read angeleti for augelletti,
while Mantua gives us the astonishing word intelletti. Again, in line 98 of the same canto,
all four read, exaltation dell' acqua, for the simple and correct esalazion dell' acqua. And
in line 131, for Eunoe si chiama, Jesi supplies the curious word curioce si chiama.

These examples of error are not of great importance in themselves, and are easily corrected,
but they serve to illustrate the great frequency of error in all the early texts of the "Divina
Commedia," and the probability that many errors not so readily discovered may still exist in
the text, making difficulties where none originally existed. They are of value, furthermore,
in the wider range of critical studies, as illustrating in a striking way the liability to
error which existed in all books so long as they were preserved only by the work of scribes.
Here is a poem which was transmitted in manuscript for only about one hundred and fifty years,
the first four printed editions of which show differences in almost every line. It is no exaggeration
to say that the variations between the editions of Foligno, Jesi, and Mantua, in orthography,
inflection, and other grammatical and dialectic forms, not to speak of the less frequent, though
still numerous differences in the words themselves, greatly exceed, throughout the poem, the
number of lines of which it is composed. Yet by a comparison of them one with another a consistent
and generally satisfactory text has been formed. The bearing of this upon the views to be taken
of the condition of the text of more ancient works, as, for instance, that of the Gospels,
is plain.

The work before us is so full of matter interesting to the student of Dante, that we are tempted
to go on with further illustrations of it, though well aware that there are few who have zeal
or patience enough to continue the examination with us. But the number of those in America
who are beginning to read the "Divina Commedia," as something more than a mere exercise in
the Italian language, is increasing, and some of them, at least, will take pleasure with us
in this inquiry concerning the words, that is, the thoughts of Dante. Why should the minute,
but not fruitless criticism of texts be reserved for the ancient classic writers? The great
poet of the Middle Ages deserves this work at our hands far more than any of the Latin poets,
not excluding even his own master and guide.

The eleventh canto of the Paradiso is chiefly occupied with the noble narrative of the life
of St. Francis. Reading it as we do, at such a distance from the time of the events which it
records, and with feelings that have never been warmed into fervor by the facts or the legends
concerning the Saint, it is hard for us to appreciate at its full worth the beauty of this
canto, and its effect upon those who had seen and conversed with the first Franciscans. Not
a century had yet passed since the death of St. Francis, and the order which he had founded
kept his memory alive in every part of the Catholic world. A story which may be true or false,
and it matters little which, tells us that Dante himself in his early manhood had proposed
to enter its ranks. There is no doubt that its vows of poverty and chastity, its arduous but
invigorating rule during its early days, appealed with strong force to his temperament and
his imagination, as promising a withdrawal from those worldly temptations of which he was conscious,
from that pressure of private and public affairs of which he was impatient. The contrast between
the effects which the life of St. Francis and that of St. Dominic had upon the poet's mind
is shown by the contrast in tone in which in successive cantos he tells of these two great
pillars of the Church.

In lines 71 and 72, speaking of Poverty, the bride of the Saint, he says,--

  Si che dove Maria rimase giuso,
  Ella con Cristo salse in sulia croce:

"So that whilst Mary remained below, she mounted the cross with Christ," Such is the common
reading. Now in all four of the editions which are in Lord Vernon's reprint, in Benvenuto da
Imola, in the Bartolinian codex, in the precious codex of Cortona, and in many other early
manuscripts and editions, the word pianse is found in the place of salse; "She lamented upon
the cross with Christ." The antithesis, though less direct, is not less striking, and the phrase
seems to us to become simpler, more natural, and more touching. Yet this reading has found
little favor with recent editors, and one of them goes so far as to say, "che non solo impoverisce,
ma adultera l' idea."

Passing over other variations, some of them of importance, in this eleventh canto, we find
the last verses standing in most modern editions,--

  E vedra il coreggier che argomenta
  U' ben s' impingua, se non si vaneggia.

And the meaning is explained as being,--"And he who is girt with a leathern cord (i.e. the
Dominican) will see what is meant by 'Where well they fatten, if they do not stray.'" But to
this there are several objections. No other example of coreggier thus used is, we believe,
to be found. Moreover, the introduction of a Dominican to learn this lesson is forced, for
it was Dante himself who had had a doubt as to the meaning of these words, and it was for his
instruction that the discourse in which they were explained was held. We prefer, therefore,
the reading which is found in the editions of Jesi, Foligno, and Naples, (in part in that of
Mantua,) and which is given by many other ancient texts: Vedrai or E vedrai il correger che
argomenta: "Thou wilt see the reproof which 'Where well they fatten, if they do not stray,'
conveys." This reading has been adopted by Mr. Cayley in his remarkable translation.

One more instance of the value of Lord Vernon's work, and we have done. The 106th, 107th, and
108th verses of the twenty-sixth canto of the Paradiso are among the most difficult of the
poem, and have given rise to great variety of comment.

And they are explained by Bianchi as meaning, "Because I see it in that true mirror (i. e.
God) which makes other things like to themselves, (that is, represents them as they are,) while
nothing can represent Him like to Himself." Those who love the quarrels of commentators should
look at the notes in the Variorum editions of Padua or Florence to see with what amusing asperity
they have treated each other's solutions of the passage. Italian words of abuse have a sonorous
quality which gives grandeur to a skirmish of critics. One is declared by his opponent to have
ingarbugliato the clearest meaning; another guasta il sentimento and sproposita in grammatica;
a third brings falso and assurdo to the charge, and, not satisfied with their force, adds blasfemo;
a fourth declares that the third has contrived capovolgere la consegitenza; and so on;--from
all which the reader, trying to find shelter from the pelting of hard words, discovers that
the meaning is not clear even to the most confident of the critics. But, standing apart from
the battle, and looking only at the text, and not at the bewildered comment, we find in the
editions of Foligno, Jesi, and Naples, and in many other ancient texts, a reading which seems
to us somewhat easier than the one commonly adopted. We copy the lines after the Foligno:--

  Per chio laueggio neluerace speglio
  che fa dise pareglio alaltre cose
  et nulla face lui dise pareglio.

And we would translate them, "Because I see it in that true mirror who in Himself affords a
likeness to [or of] all other things, while nothing gives back to Him a likeness of Himself."
Here pareglio corresponds with the Provencal parelh and the later French pareil,--and the Provencal
phrase rendre le parelha affords an example of similar application to that of the word in Dante.

With us in America, criticism is not rated as it deserves; it is little followed as a study,
and the love for the great masters and poets of other times and other tongues than our own
fails to stimulate the ardor of students to the thorough examination of their thoughts and
words. No doubt, criticism, as it has too often been pursued, is of small worth, displaying
itself in useless inquiries, and lavishing time and labor upon insoluble and uninteresting
questions. But such is not its true end. Verbal criticism, rightly viewed, has a dignity which
belongs to few other studies; for it deals with words as the symbols of thoughts,--with words,
which are the most spiritual of the instruments of human power, the most marvellous of human
possessions. It makes thought accurate, and perception fine. It adds truth to the creations
of imagination by teaching the modes by which they may be best expressed, and it thus leads
to fuller and more appreciative understanding and enjoyment of the noblest works of the past.
There can, indeed, be no thorough culture without it.

To restore the balance of our lives, in these days of haste, novelty, and restlessness, there
is a need of a larger infusion into them of pursuits which have no end of immediate publicity
or instant return of tangible profit,--of pursuits which, while separating us from the intrusive
world around us, should introduce us into the freer, tranquiller, and more spacious world of
noble and everlasting thought. The greener and lonelier precincts of our minds are now trampled
upon by the hurrying feet of daily events and transient interests. If we would keep that spiritual
region unpolluted, we need to acquaint ourselves with some other literature than that of newspapers
and magazines, and to entertain as familiars the men long dead, yet living in their works.
As Americans, our birthrights in the past are imperfect; we are born into the present alone.
But he who lives only in present things lives but half a life, and death comes to him as an
impertinent interruption: by living also in the past we learn to value the present at its worth,
to hold ourselves ready for its end. With Dante, taking him as a guide and companion in our
privater moods, we may, even in the natural body, pass through the world of spirit.

It will be a good indication of the improvement in the intellectual disposition of our people,
when the study of Dante becomes more general. Meanwhile, on the part of his few students in
America, we would offer our thanks to Lord Vernon and to Mr. Panizzi for the aid which the
liberality of the one and the skill and learning of the other have given to us, and for the
honor they have done to the memory of our common Author and Leader.

Notes of Travel and Study in Italy. By CHARLES ELIOT NORTON. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1860.
pp. x., 320.

There is, perhaps, no country with which we are so intimate as with Italy,--none of which we
are always so willing to hear more. Poets and prosers have alike compared her to a beautiful
woman; and while one finds nothing but loveliness in her, another shudders at her fatal fascination.
She is the very Witch-Venus of the Middle Ages. He quotes triumphantly the proverb,--Inglese
italianato, diavolo incarnato. Plainly, our Tannhaeuser is but too ready to go back to the
Venus-berg!

A new book on Italy seems a dangerous experiment. Has not all been told and told and told again?
Is it not one chief charm of the land, that it is changeless without being Chinese? Did not
Abbot Samson, in 1159, Scotti habitum induens, (which must have shown his massive calves to
great advantage.) probably see much the same popular characteristics that Hawthorne saw seven
hundred years later? Shall a man try to be entertaining after Montaigne, aesthetic after Winckelmann,
wise after Goethe, or trenchant after Forsyth? Can he hope to bring back anything so useful
as the fork, which honest Tom Coryate made prize of two centuries and a half ago, and put into
the greasy fingers of Northern barbarians? Is not the "Descrittione" of Leandro Alberti still
a competent itinerary? And can one hope to pick up a fresh Latin quotation, when Addison and
Eustace have been before him with their scrap-baskets?

If there be anything which a person of even moderate accomplishments may be presumed to know,
it is Italy. The only open question left seems to be, whether Shakespeare were the only man
that could write his name who had never been there. We have read our share of Italian travels,
both in prose and verse, but, as the nicely discriminating Dutchman found that "too moch brahndee
was too moch, but too moch lager-beer was jost hright," so we are inclined to say that too
much Italy is just what we want. After Des Brosses, we are ready for Henri Beyle, and Ampere,
and Hillard, and About, and Gallenga, and Julia Kavanagh; "Corinne" only makes us hungry for
George Sand. That no one can tell us anything new is as undeniable as the compensating fact
that no one can tell us anything too old.

There are two kinds of travellers,--those who tell us what they went to see, and those who
tell us what they saw. The latter class are the only ones whose journals are worth the sifting;
and the value of their eyes depends on the amount of individual character they took with them,
and of the previous culture that had sharpened and tutored the faculty of observation. In our
conscious age the frankness and naivete of the elder voyagers is impossible, and we are weary
of those humorous confidences on the subject of fleas with which we are favored by some modern
travellers, whose motto should be (slightly altered) from Horace,--Flea-bit, et toto cantabitur
orbe. A naturalist self-sacrificing enough may have this experience more cheaply at home.

