We then turned our attention to making a series of actual measurements of the lift and drift
of the machine under various loads. So far as we were aware, this had never previously been
done with any full-size machine. This deficiency we supposed might be due to one or more of
the following causes:--(1) That the depth of the curvature of our surfaces was insufficient,
being only about one in 22, instead of one in 12. (2) That the cloth used in our wings was
not sufficiently air-tight. (3) That the Lilienthal tables might themselves be somewhat in error.

Our attention was next turned to gliding, but no hill suitable for the purpose could be found
near our camp at Kitty Hawk. This compelled us to take the machine to a point four miles south,
where the Kill Devil sand hill rises from the flat sand to a height of more than 100 feet.
Its main slope is toward the northeast, and has an inclination of 10 degrees. On the day of
our arrival the wind blew about 25 miles an hour, and as we had had no experience at all in
gliding, we deemed it unsafe to attempt to leave the ground. But on the day following, the
wind having subsided to 14 miles per hour, we made about a dozen glides. It had been the original
intention that the operator should run with the machine to obtain initial velocity, and assume
the horizontal position only after the machine was in free flight. When it came time to land
he was to resume the upright position and alight on his feet, after the style of previous gliding
experiments. But in actual trial we found it much better to employ the help of two assistants
in starting, which the peculiar form of our machine enabled us readily to do; and in landing
we found that it was entirely practicable to land while still reclining in a horizontal position
upon the machine. Although the landings were made while moving at speeds of more than 20 miles
an hour, neither machine nor operator suffered any injury. The slope of the hill was 9.5 deg.,
or a drop of one foot in six.

When the time came to design our new machine for 1901 we decided to make it exactly like the
previous machine in theory and method of operation. But as the former machine was not able
to support the weight of the operator when flown as a kite, except in very high winds and at
very large angles of incidence, we decided to increase its lifting power. Accordingly, the
curvature of the surfaces was increased to one in 12, to conform to the shape on which Lilienthal's
table was based, and to be on the safe side we decided also to increase the area of the machine
from 165 square feet to 308 square feet, although so large a machine had never before been
deemed controllable. The Lilienthal machine had an area of 151 square feet; that of Pilcher,
165 square feet; and the Chanute double-decker, 134 square feet. As our system of control consisted
in a manipulation of the surfaces themselves instead of shifting the operator's body, we hoped
that the new machine would be controllable, notwithstanding its great size. According to calculations,
it would obtain support in a wind of 17 miles per hour with an angle of incidence of only three
degrees.

Our experience of the previous year having shown the necessity of a suitable building for housing
the machine, we erected a cheap frame building, 16 feet wide, 25 feet long, and 7 feet high
at the eaves. As our machine was 22 feet wide, 14 feet long (including the rudder), and about
6 feet high, it was not necessary to take the machine apart in any way in order to house it.
Both ends of the building, except the gable parts, were made into doors which hinged above,
so that when opened they formed an awning at each end and left an entrance the full width of
the building. We went into camp about the middle of July, and were soon joined by Mr. E. C.
Huffaker, of Tennessee, an experienced aeronautical investigator in the employ of Mr. Chanute,
by whom his services were kindly loaned, and by Dr. A. G. Spratt, of Pennsylvania, a young
man who has made some valuable investigations of the properties of variously curved surfaces
and the travel of the center of pressure thereon. Early in August Mr. Chanute came down from
Chicago to witness our experiments, and spent a week in camp with us. These gentlemen, with
my brother and myself, formed our camping party, but in addition we had in many of our experiments
the valuable assistance of Mr. W. J. Tate and Mr. Dan Tate, of Kitty Hawk.

3.

  +------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |Transcriber's Note:                                               |
  |                                                                  |
  |                                                                  |
  |On page 15:                                                       |
  |                                                                  |
  |Wilbur, who was at one end, seized it in front, Mr. Daniels and I,|
  |who were behind, tried to stop it behind, tried to stop it by     |
  |holding to the rear uprights.  |
  +------------------------------------------------------------------+