"My mother will see you," she said, her tone as ungracious as her look. "But you will say nothing
of lodging here, if it please you. Do you hear?" she added, her voice rising to a more imperious
note.

He nodded.

She turned on the lowest step. "She is bed-ridden," she muttered, as if she felt the need of
explanation. "She is not to be disturbed with house matters, or who comes or goes. You understand
that, do you?"

He nodded, with a mental reservation, and followed her up the confined staircase. Turning sharply
at the head of the first flight he saw before him a long narrow passage, lighted by a window
that looked to the back. On the left of the passage which led to a second set of stairs, were
two doors, one near the head of the lower flight, the other at the foot of the second. She
led him past both--they were closed--and up the second stairs and into a room under the tiles,
a room of good size but with a roof which sloped in unexpected places.

A woman lay there, not uncomely; rather comely with the beauty of advancing years, though weak
and frail if not ill. It was the woman of whom he had so often heard his father speak with
gratitude and respect. It was neither of his father, however, nor of her, that Claude Mercier
thought as he stood holding Madame Royaume's hand and looking down at her. For the girl who
had gone before him into the room had passed to the other side of the bed, and the glance which
she and her mother exchanged as the daughter leant over the couch, the message of love and
protection on one side, of love and confidence on the other--that message and the tone, wondrous
gentle, in which the girl, so curt and abrupt below, named him--these revealed a bond and an
affection for which the life of his own family furnished him with no precedent.

For his mother had many children, and his father still lived. But these two, his heart told
him as he held Madame Royaume's shrivelled hand in his, were alone. They had each but the other,
and lived each in the other, in this room under the tiles with the deep-set dormer windows
that looked across the Pays de Gex to the Jura. For how much that prospect of vale and mountain
stood in their lives, how often they rose to it from the same bed, how often looked at it in
sunshine and shadow with the house still and quiet below them, he seemed to know--to guess.
He had a swift mental vision of their lives, and then Madame Royaume's voice recalled him to
himself.

"You are newly come to Geneva?" she said, gazing at him.

"I arrived yesterday."

"Yes, yes, of course," she answered. She spoke quickly and nervously. "Yes, you told me so."
And she turned to her daughter and laid her hand on hers as if she talked more easily so. "Your
father, Monsieur Mercier," with an obvious effort, "is well, I hope?"

"Perfectly, and he begged me to convey his grateful remembrances. Those of my mother also,"
the young man added warmly.

"Yes, he was a good man! I remember when, when he was ill, and M. Chausse--the pastor, you
know"--the reminiscence appeared to agitate her--"was ill also----"

The girl leant over her quickly. "Monsieur Mercier has brought something for you, mother,"
she said.

"Ah?"

"His grateful remembrances and this letter," Claude murmured with a blush. He knew that the
letter contained no more than he had already said; compliments, and the hope that Madame Royaume
might be able to receive the son as she had received the father.

"Ah!" Madame Royaume repeated, taking the letter with fingers that shook a little.

"You shall read it when Monsieur Mercier is gone," her daughter said. With that she looked
across at the young man. Her eyes commanded him to take his leave.

But he was resolute. "My father expresses the hope," he said, "that you will grant me the same
privilege of living under your roof, Madame, which was so highly prized by him."

"Of course, of course," she answered eagerly, her eyes lighting up. "I am not myself, sir,
able to overlook the house--but, Anne, you will see to--to this being done?"

"My dear mother, we have no room!" the girl replied; and stooping, hid her face while she whispered
in her mother's ear. Then aloud, "We are so full, so--it goes so well," she continued gaily.
"We never have any room. I am sure, sir,"--again she faced him across the bed--"it is a disappointment
to my mother, but it cannot be helped."

"Dear, dear, it is unfortunate!" Madame Royaume exclaimed; and then with a fond look at her
daughter, "Anne manages so well!"

"Yet if there be a room at any time vacant?"

"You shall assuredly have it."

"But, mother dear," the girl cried, "M. Grio and M. Basterga are permanent on the floor below.
And Esau and Louis are now with us, and have but just entered on their course at college. And
you know," she continued softly, "no one ever leaves your house before they are obliged to
leave it, mother dear!"

The mother patted the daughter's hand. "No," she said proudly. "It is true. And we cannot turn
any one away. And yet," looking up at Anne, "the son of Messer Mercier? You do not think--do
you think that we could put him----"

"A closet however small!" Claude cried.

"Unfortunately the room beyond this can only be entered through this one."

"It is out of the question!" the girl responded quickly; and for the first time her tone rang
a little hard. The next instant she seemed to repent of her petulance; she stooped and kissed
the thin face sunk in the pillow's softness. Then, rising, "I am sorry," she continued stiffly
and decidedly. "But it is impossible!"

"Still--if a vacancy should occur?" he pleaded.

Her eyes met his defiantly. "We will inform you," she said.

"Thank you," he answered humbly. "Perhaps I am fatiguing your mother?"

"I think you are a little tired, dear," the girl said, stooping over her. "A little fatigues you."

Madame's cheeks were flushed; her eyes shone brightly, even feverishly. Claude saw this, and
having pushed his plea and his suit as far as he dared, he hastened to take his leave. His
thoughts had been busy with his chances all the time, his eyes with the woman's face; yet he
bore away with him a curiously vivid picture of the room, of the bow-pot blooming in the farther
dormer, of the brass skillet beside the green boughs which filled the hearth, of the spinning
wheel in the middle of the floor, and the great Bible on the linen chest beside the bed, of
the sloping roof, and a queer triangular cupboard which filled one corner.

At the time, as he followed the girl downstairs, he thought of none of these things. He only
asked himself what mystery lay in the bosom of this quiet house, and what he should say when
he stood in the room below at bay before her. The mention of his adversary of last night, which
had not escaped his ear, had only hardened him in his resolution. The room of Esau--or was
it Louis' room--must be his! He must be Jacob the Supplanter.

She did not speak as she preceded him down the stairs, and before they emerged one after the
other into the living-room, which was still unoccupied, he had formed his plan. When she moved
towards the outer door to open it he refused to follow: he stood still. "Pardon me," he said,
"would you mind giving me the name of the young man who admitted me?"

"I do not see----"

"I only want his name."

"Esau Tissot."

"And his room? Which was it?"

Grudgingly she pointed to the nearer of the two closets, that of which the door stood open.

"That one?"

"Yes."

He stepped quickly into it, and surveyed it carefully. Then he laid his cap on the low truckle-bed.
"Very good," he said, raising his voice and speaking through the open door, "I will take it."
And he came out again.

The girl's eyes sparkled. "If you think," she cried, her temper showing in her face, "that
that will do you any good----"

"I don't think," he said, cutting her short, "I take it. Your mother undertook that I should
have the first vacant room. Tissot resigned this room this morning. I take it. I consider myself
fortunate--most fortunate."

Her colour came and went. "If you were a boor," she cried, "you could not behave worse!"

"Then I am a boor!"

"But you will find," she continued, "that you cannot force your way into a house like this.
You will find that such things are not done in Geneva. I will have you put out!"

"Why?" he asked, craftily resorting to argument. "When I ask only to remain and be quiet? Why,
when you have, or to-night will have, an empty room? Why, when you lodged Tissot, will you
not lodge me? In what am I worse than Tissot or Grio," he continued, "or--I forget the other's
name? Have I the plague, or the falling sickness? Am I Papist or Arian? What have I done that
I may not lie in Geneva, may not lie in your house? Tell me, give me a reason, show me the
cause, and I will go."

Her anger had died down while he spoke and while she listened. Instead, the lowness of heart
to which she had yielded when she thought herself alone before the hearth showed in every line
of her figure. "You do not know what you are doing," she said sadly. And she turned and looked
through the casement. "You do not know what you are asking, or to what you are coming."

"Did Tissot know when he came?"

"You are not Tissot," she answered in a low tone, "and may fare worse."

"Or better," he answered gaily. "And at worst----"

"Worse or better you will repent it," she retorted. "You will repent it bitterly!"

"I may," he answered. "But at least you never shall."

She turned and looked at him at that; looked at him as if the curtain of apathy fell from her
eyes and she saw him for the first time as he was, a young man, upright and not uncomely. She
looked at him with her mind as well as her eyes, and seeing felt curiosity about him, pity
for him, felt her own pulses stirred by his presence and his aspect. A faint colour, softer
than the storm-flag which had fluttered there a minute before, rose to her cheeks; her lips
began to tremble. He feared that she was going to weep, and "That is settled!" he said cheerfully.
"Good!" and he went into the little room and brought out his cap. "I lay last night at the
'Bible and Hand,' and I must fetch my cloak and pack."

She stayed him by a gesture. "One moment," she said. "You are determined to--to do this? To
lodge here?"

"Firmly," he answered, smiling.

"Then wait." She passed by him and, moving to the fireplace, raised the lid of the great black
pot. The broth inside was boiling and bubbling to within an inch of the lip, the steam rose
from it in a fragrant cloud. She took an iron spoon and looked at him, a strange look in her
eyes. "Stand where you are," she said, "and I will try you, if you are fit to come to us or
no. Stand, do you hear," she repeated, a note of excitation, almost of mockery, in her voice,
"where you are whatever happens! You understand?"

"Yes, I am to stand here, whatever happens," he answered, wondering. What was she going to do?

She was going to do a thing outside the limits of his imagination. She dipped the iron spoon
in the pot and, extending her left arm, deliberately allowed some drops of the scalding liquor
to fall on the bare flesh. He saw the arm wince, saw red blisters spring out on the white skin,
he caught the sharp indraw of her breath, but he did not move. Again she dipped the spoon,
looking at him with defiant eyes, and with the same deliberation she let the stuff fall on
the living flesh. This time the perspiration sprang out on her brow, her face burned suddenly
hot, her whole frame shrank under the torture.

"Don't!" he cried hoarsely. "I will not bear it! Don't!" And he uttered a cry half-articulate,
like a beast's.

"Stand there!" she said. And still he stood: stood, his hands clenched and his lips drawn back
from his teeth, while she dipped the spoon again, and--though her arm shook now like an aspen
and there were tears of pain in her eyes--let the dreadful stuff fall a third time.

She was white when she turned to him. "If you do it again," he cried furiously, "I will upset--the
cursed pot."

"I have done," she said, smiling faintly. "I am not very brave--after all!" And going to the
dresser, her knees trembling under her, she poured out some water and drank it greedily. Then
she turned to him, "Do you understand?" she said with a long tense look. "Are you prepared?
If you come here, you will see me suffer worse things, things a hundred times, a thousand times
worse than that. You will see me suffer, and you will have to stand and see it. You will have
to stand and suffer it. You will have to stand! If you cannot, do not come."

"I stood it," he answered doggedly. "But there are things flesh and blood cannot stand. There
is a limit----"

"The limit I shall fix," she said proudly. "Not you."

"But you will fix it?"

"Perhaps. At any rate, that is the bargain. You may accept or refuse. You do not know where
I stand, and I do. You must see and be blind, feel and be dumb, hear and make no answer, unless
I speak--if you are to come here."

"But you will speak--sometime?"

"I do not know," she answered wearily, and her whole form wilting she looked away from him.
"I do not know. Go now, if you please--and remember!"

CHAPTER III.

THE QUINTESSENTIAL STONE.

The old town of Geneva, pent in the angle between lake and river, and cramped for many generations
by the narrow corselet of its walls, was not large; it was still high noon when Mercier, after
paying his reckoning at the "Bible and Hand," and collecting his possessions, found himself
again in the Corraterie. A pleasant breeze stirred the leafy branches which shaded the ramparts,
and he stood a moment beside one of the small steep-roofed watch-towers, and resting his burden
on the breast-high wall, gazed across the hazy landscape to the mountains, beyond which lay
Chatillon and his home.

Yet it was not of his home he was thinking as he gazed; nor was it his mother's or his father's
face that the dancing heat of mid-day mirrored for him as he dreamed. Oh, happy days of youth
when an hour and a face change all, and a glance from shy eyes, or the pout of strange lips
blinds to the world and the world's ambitions! Happy youth! But alas for the studies this youth
had come so far to pursue, for the theology he had crossed those mountains to imbibe--at the
pure source and fount of evangelical doctrine! Alas for the venerable Beza, pillar and pattern
of the faith, whom he had thirsted to see, and the grave of Calvin, aim and end of his pilgrimage!
All Geneva held but one face for him now, one presence, one gracious personality. A scarlet
blister on a round white arm, the quiver of a girl's lip a-tremble on the verge of tears--these
and no longing for home, these and no memory of father or mother or the days of childhood,
filled his heart to overflowing.

At length the call of a sentry at the Porte Tertasse startled him from his thoughts. He roused
himself, and uncertain how long he had lingered he took up his cloak and bag and, turning,
hastened across the street to the door at the head of the four steps. He found it on the latch,
and with a confident air, which belied his real feelings, he pushed it open and presented himself.

For a moment he fancied that the room held only one person. This was a young man who sat at
the table in the middle of the room and, surprised by the appearance of a stranger, suspended
his spoon in the air that he might the better gaze at him. But when Claude had set down his
bag behind the door, and turned to salute the other, he discovered his error; and despite himself
he paused in the act of advancing, unable to hide his concern. At the table on the hearth,
staring at him in silence, sat two other men. And one of the two was Grio.

Mercier paused we have said; he expected an outburst of anger if not an assault. But a second
glance at the old ruffian's face relieved him: a stare of vacant wonder made it plain that
Grio sober retained little of the doings of Grio drunk. Nevertheless, the silent gaze of the
three--for no one greeted him--took Claude aback; and it was but awkwardly and with embarrassment
that he approached the table, and prepared to add himself to the party. Something in their
looks as well as their silence whispered him unwelcome. He blushed, and addressing the young
man at the larger table--

"I have taken Tissot's room," he said shyly. "This is his seat, I suppose. May I take it?"
And indicating an empty bowl and spoon on the nearer side of the table, he made as if he would
sit down before them.

In place of answering, the young man looked from him to the two on the hearth, and laughed--a
foolish, frightened laugh. The sound led Mercier's eyes in the same direction, and he appreciated
for the first time the aspect of the man who sat with Grio; a man of great height and vast
bulk, with a large plump face and small grey eyes. It struck Mercier as he met the fixed stare
of those eyes, that he had entered with less ceremony than was becoming, and that he ought
to make amends for it; and, in the act of sitting down in the vacant seat, he turned and bowed
politely to the two at the other table.

"Tissotius timuit, jam peregrinus adest!" the big man murmured in a voice at once silky and
sonorous. Then ignoring Mercier, but looking blandly at the young man who sat facing him at
the table, "What is this of Tissot?" he continued. "Can it be," with a side-glance at the newcomer,
"that we have lost our--I may not call him our quintessence or alcahest--rather shall I say
our baser ore, that at the virgin touch of our philosophical stone blushed into ruddy gold?
And burned ever brighter and hotter in her presence! Tissot gone, and with him all those fair
experiments! Is it possible?"

The young man's grin showed that he savoured a jest. But, "I know nothing," he muttered sheepishly.
"'Tis new to me."

"Tissot gone!" the big man repeated in a tone humorously melancholy. "No more shall we

    Upon his viler metal test our purest pure,
    And see him transmutations three endure!

Tissot gone! And you, sir, come in his place. What change is here! A stranger, I believe?"

"In Geneva, yes," Claude answered, wondering and a little abashed. The man spoke with an air
of power and weight.

"And a student, doubtless in our Academia? Like our Tissot? Yes. It may be," he continued in
the same smooth tones wherein ridicule and politeness appeared to be so nicely mingled that
it was difficult to judge if he spoke in jest or earnest, "like him in other things! It may
be that we have gained and not lost. And that qualities finer and more susceptible underlie
an exterior more polished and an ease more complete," he bowed, "than our poor Tissot could
boast! But here is

    Our stone angelical whereby
    All secret potencies to light are brought!

Doubtless"--with a wave of the hand he indicated the girl who had that moment entered--"you
have met before?"

"I could not otherwise," Claude answered coldly--he began to resent both the man and his manner--"have
engaged the lodging." And he rose to take from the girl's hand the broth she was bringing him.
She, on her side, made no sign that she noticed a change, or that it was no longer Tissot she
served. She gave him what he needed, mechanically and without meeting his eyes. Then turning
to the others, she waited on them after the same fashion. For a minute or two there was silence
in the room.

A strange silence, Claude thought, listening and wondering: as strange and embarrassing as
the talk of the man who shared with Grio the table by the fireplace: as strange as the atmosphere
about them, which hung heavy, to his fancy, and oppressive, fraught with unintelligible railleries,
with subtle jests and sneers. The girl went to and fro, from one to another, her face pale,
her manner quiet. And had he not seen her earlier with another look in her eyes, had he not
detected a sinister something underlying the big man's good humour, he would have learned nothing
from her; he would have fancied that all was as it should be in the house and in the company.

As it was he understood nothing. But he felt that a something was wrong, that a something overhung
the party. Seated as he was he could not without turning see the faces of the two at the other
table, nor watch the girl when she waited on them. But the suspicion of a smile which hovered
on the lips of the young man who sat opposite him--whom he could see--kept him on his guard.
Was a trick in preparation? Were they about to make him pay his footing? No, for they had no
notice of his coming. They could not have laid the mine. Then why that smile? And why this silence?

On a sudden he caught the sound of a movement behind him, the swirl of a petticoat, and the
clang of a pewter plate as it fell noisily to the floor. His companion looked up swiftly, the
smile on his face broadening to a snigger. Claude turned too as quickly as he could and looked,
his face hot, his mind suspecting some prank to be played on him; to his astonishment he discovered
nothing to account for the laugh. The girl appeared to be bending over the embers on the hearth,
the men to be engaged with their meal; and baffled and perplexed he turned again and, his ears
burning, bent over his plate. He was glad when the stout man broke the silence for the second time.

"Agrippa," he said, "has this of amalgams. That whereas gold, silver, tin are valuable in themselves,
they attain when mixed with mercury to a certain light and sparkling character, as who should
say the bubbles on wine, or the light resistance of beauty, which in the one case and the other
add to the charm. Such to our simple pleasures"--he continued with a rumble of deep laughter--"our
simple pleasures, which I must now also call our pleasures of the past, was our Tissot! Who,
running fluid hither and thither, where resistance might be least of use, was as it were the
ultimate sting of enjoyment. Is it possible that we have in our friend a new Tissot?"

The young man at the table giggled. "I did not know Tissot!" Claude replied sharply and with
a burning face--they were certainly laughing at him. "And therefore I cannot say."

"Mercury, which completes the amalgam," the stout man muttered absently and as if to himself,
"when heated sublimes over!" Then turning after a moment's silence to the girl, "What says
our Quintessential Stone to this?" he continued. "Her Tissot gone will she still work her wonders?
Still of base Grios and the weak alloys red bridegrooms make? Still--kind Anne, your hand!"

Silence! Silence again. What were they doing? Claude, full of suspicion, turned to see what
it meant; turned to learn what it was on which the greedy eyes of his table-fellow were fixed
so intently. And now he saw, more or less. The stout man and Grio had their heads together
and their faces bent over the girl's hand, which the former held. On them, however, Claude
scarcely bestowed a glance. It was the girl's face which caught and held his eyes, nay, made
them burn. Had it blushed, had it showed white, he had borne the thing more lightly, he had
understood it better. But her face showed dull and apathetic; as she stood looking down at
the men, suffering them to do what they would with her hand, a strange passivity was its sole
expression. When the big man (whose name Claude learned later was Basterga), after inspecting
the palm, kissed it with mock passion, and so surrendered it to Grio, who also pressed his
coarse lips to it, while the young man beside Claude laughed, no change came over her. Released,
she turned again to the hearth, impassive. And Claude, his heart beating, recognised that this
was the hundredth performance; that so far from being a new thing it was a thing so old as
to be stale to her, moving her less, though there were insult and derision in every glance
of the men's eyes, than it moved him.

And noting this he began in a dim way to understand. This was the thing which Tissot had not
been able to bear; which in the end had driven the young man with the small chin from the house.
This was the pleasantry to which his feeble resistance, his outbursts of anger, of jealousy,
or of protest had but added piquancy, the ultimate sting of pleasure to the jaded palate of
the performers. This was the obsession under which she lay, the trial and persecution which
she had warned him he would find it hard to witness.

Hard? He believed her, trifling as was the thing he had seen. For behind it he had a glimpse
of other and worse things, and behind all of some shadowy brooding mystery which compelled
her to suffer them and forbade her to complain. What that was he could not conceive, what it
could be he could not conceive: nor had he long to consider the question. He found the shifty
eyes of his table-fellow fixed upon him, and, though the moment his own eyes met them they
were averted, he fancied that they sped a glance of intelligence to the table behind him, and
he hastened to curb, if not his feelings, at least the show of them. He had his warning. It
was not as Tissot he must act if he would help her, but more warily, more patiently, biding
her time, and letting the blow, when the time came, precede the word. Unwarned, he had acted
it is probable as Tissot had acted, weakly and stormily: warned, he had no excuse if he failed
her. Young as he was he saw this. The fault lay with him if he made the position worse instead
of better.

Whether, do what he would, his feelings made themselves known--for the shoulders can speak,
and eloquently, on occasion--or the reverse was the case, and his failure to rise to the bait
disappointed the tormentor, the big man, Basterga, presently resumed the attack.

"Tissotius pereat, Tissotianus adest!" he muttered with a sneer. "But perhaps, young sir, Latinity
is not one of your subjects. The tongue of the immortal Cicero----"

"I speak it a little," Claude answered quietly. "It were foolish to approach the door of learning
without the key."

"Oh, you are a wit, young sir! Well, with your wit and your Latinity can you construe this:--

    Stultitiam expellas, furca tamen usque recurret
      Tissotius periit terque quaterque redit!"

"I think so," Claude replied gravely.

"Good, if it please you! And the meaning?"

"Tissot was a fool, and you are another!" the young man returned. "Will you now solve me one,
reverend sir, with all submission?"

"Said and done!" the big man answered disdainfully.

"Nec volucres plumæ faciunt nec cuspis Achillem! Construe me that then if you will!"

Basterga shrugged his shoulders. "Fine feathers do not make fine birds!" he said. "If you apply
it to me," he continued with a contemptuous face, "I----"

"Oh, no, to your company," Claude answered. Self-control comes hardly to the young, and he
had already forgotten his rôle. "Ask him what happened last night at the 'Bible and Hand,'"
he continued, pointing to Grio, "and how he stands now with his friend the Syndic!"

"The Syndic?"

"The Syndic Blondel!"

The moment the words had passed his lips, Claude repented. He saw that he had struck a note
more serious than he intended. The big man did not move, but over his fat face crept a watching
expression; he was plainly startled. His eyes, reduced almost to pin-points, seemed for an
instant the eyes of a cat about to spring. The effect was so evident indeed that it bewildered
Claude and so completely diverted his attention from Grio, the real target, that when the bully,
who had listened stupidly to the exchange of wit, proved by a brutal oath his comprehension
of the reference to himself, the young man scarcely heard him.

"The Syndic Blondel?" Basterga muttered after a pregnant pause. "What know you of him, pray?"

Before the young man could answer, Grio broke in. "So you have followed me here, have you?"
he cried, striking his jug on the table and glaring across the board at the offender. "You
weren't content to escape last night it seems. Now----"

"Enough!" Basterga muttered, the keen expression of his face unchanged. "Softly! Softly! Where
are we? I don't understand. What is this? Last night----"

"I want not to rake up bygones if you will let them be," Claude answered with a sulky air,
half assumed. "It was you who attacked me."

"You puppy!" Grio roared. "Do you think----"

"Enough!" Basterga said again: and his eyes leaving the young man fixed themselves on his companion.
"I begin to understand," he murmured, his voice low, but not the less menacing for that, or
for the cat-like purr in it. "I begin to comprehend. This is one of your tricks, Messer Grio.
One of the clever tricks you play in your cups! Some day you'll do that in them will--No!"
repressing the bully as he attempted to rise. "Have done now and let us understand. The 'Bible
and Hand,' eh? 'Twas there, I suppose, you and this youth met, and----"

"Quarrelled," said Claude sullenly. "That's all."

"And you followed him hither?"

"No, I did not."

"No? Then how come you here?" Basterga asked, his eyes still watchful. "In this house, I mean?
'Tis not easy to find."

"My father lodged here," Claude vouchsafed. And he shrugged his shoulders, thinking that with
that the matter was clear.

But Basterga continued to eye him with something that was not far removed from suspicion. "Oh,"
he said. "That is it, is it? Your father lodged here. And the Syndic--Blondel, was it you said?
How comes he into it? Grio was prating of him, I suppose?" For an instant, while he waited
the answer to the question, his eyes shrank again to pin-points.

"He came in and found us at sword-play," Claude answered. "Or just falling to it. And though
the fault was not mine, he would have sent me to prison if I had not had a letter for him."

"Oh!" "I doubt if such manners will be appreciated in Geneva, young man," and furtively he
wiped his brow. "To old stagers like my friend here who has given his proofs of fidelity to
the State, some indulgence is granted----"

"I see that," Claude answered with sarcasm.

"I am saying it. But you, if you will not be warned, will soon find or make the town too hot
for you."

"He will find this house too hot for him!" growled his companion, who had made more than one
vain attempt to assert himself. "And that to-day! To-day! Perdition, I know him now," he continued,
fixing his bloodshot eyes on the young man, "and if he crows here as he crowed last night,
his comb must be cut! As well soon as late, for there will be no living with him! There, don't
hold me, man! Let me at him!" And he tried to rise.

"Fool, have done!" Basterga replied, still restraining him, but only by the exertion of considerable
force. And then in a lower tone but one partially audible, "Do you want to draw the eyes of
all Geneva this way?" he continued. "Do you want the house marked and watched and every gossip's
tongue wagging about it? You did harm enough last night, I'll answer, and well if no worse
comes of it! Have done, I say, or I shall speak, you know to whom!"

"Why does he come here? Why does he follow me?" the sot complained.

"Cannot you hear that his father lodged here?"

"A lie!" Grio cried vehemently. "He is spying on us! First at the 'Bible and Hand' last night,
and then here! It is you who are the fool, man. Let me go! Let me at him, I say!"

"I shall not!" the big man answered firmly. And he whispered in the other's ear something which
Claude could not catch. Whatever it was it cooled Grio's rage. He ceased to struggle, nodded
sulkily and sat back. He stretched out his hand, took a long draught, and having emptied his
jug, "Here's Geneva!" he said, wiping his lips with the air of a man who had given a toast.
"Only don't let him cross me! That is all. Where is the wench?"

"She has gone upstairs," Basterga answered with one eye on Claude. He seemed to be unable to
shake off a secret doubt of him.

"Then let her come down," Grio answered with a grin, half drunken, half brutal, "and make her
show sport. Here, you there," to the young man who shared Claude's table, "call her down and----"

"Sit still!" Basterga growled, and he trod--Claude was almost sure of it--on the bully's foot.
"It is late, and these young gentlemen should be at their themes. Theology, young sir," he
turned to Claude with the slightest shade of over-civility in his pompous tone, "like the pursuit
of the Alcahest, which some call the Quintessence of the Elements, allows no rival near its
throne!"

"I attend my first lecture to-morrow," Claude answered drily. And he kept his seat. His face
was red and his hand trembled. They would call her down for their sport, would they! Not in
his presence, nor again in his absence, if he could avoid it.

Grio struck the table. "Call her down!" he ordered in a tone which betrayed the influence of
his last draught. "Do you hear!" And he looked fiercely at Louis Gentilis, the young man who
sat opposite Claude.

But Louis only looked at Basterga and grinned.

And Basterga it was plain was not in the mood to amuse himself. Whatever the reason, the big
man was no longer at his ease in Mercier's company. Some unpleasant thought, some suspicion,
born of the incident at the "Bible and Hand," seemed to rankle in his mind, and, strive as
he would, betrayed its presence in the tone of his voice and the glance of his eye. He was
uneasy, nor could he hide his uneasiness. To the look which Gentilis shot at him he replied
by one which imperatively bade the young man keep his seat. "Enough fooling for to-day," he
said, and stealthily he repressed Grio's resistance. "Enough! Enough! I see that the young
gentleman does not altogether understand our humours. He will come to them in time, in time,"
his voice almost fawning, "and see we mean no harm. Did I understand," he continued, addressing
Claude directly, "that your father knew Messer Blondel?"

"Who is now Syndic? My uncle did," Claude answered rather curtly. He was more and more puzzled
by the change in Basterga's manner. Was the big man a poltroon whom the bold front shown to
Grio brought to heel? Or was there something behind, some secret upon which his words had unwittingly
touched?

"He is a good man," Basterga said. "And of the first in Geneva. His brother too, who is Procureur-General.
Their father died for the State, and the sons, the Syndic in particular, served with high honour
in the war. Savoy has no stouter foe than Philibert Blondel, nor Geneva a more devoted son."
And he drank as if he drank a toast to them.

Claude nodded.

"A man of great parts too. Probably you will wait on him?"

"Next week. I was near waiting on him after another fashion," Claude continued rather grimly.
"Between him and your friend there," with a glance at Grio, who had relapsed into a moody glaring
silence, "I was like to get more gyves than justice."

The big man laughed. "Our friend here has served the State," he remarked, "and does what another
may not. Come, Messer Grio," he continued, clapping him on the shoulder, as he rose from his
seat. "We have sat long enough. If the young ones will not stir, it becomes the old ones to
set an example. Will you to my room and view the precipitation of which I told you?"

Grio gave a snarling assent, and got to his feet; and the party broke up with no more words.
Claude took his cap and prepared to withdraw, well content with himself and the line he had
taken. But he did not leave the house until his ears assured him that the two who had ascended
the stairs together had actually repaired to Basterga's room on the first floor, and there
shut themselves up.

CHAPTER IV.

CÆSAR BASTERGA.

Had it been Mercier's eye in place of his ear which attended the two men to the upper room,
he would have remarked--perhaps with surprise, since he had gained some knowledge of Grio's
temper--that in proportion as they mounted the staircase, the toper's crest drooped, and his
arrogance ebbed away; until at the door of Basterga's chamber, it was but a sneaking and awkward
man who crossed the threshold.

Nor was the reason far to seek. Whatever the standpoint of the two men in public, their relations
to one another in private were delivered up, stamped and sealed in that moment of entrance.
While Basterga, leaving the other to close the door, strode across the room to the window and
stood gazing out, his very back stern and contemptuous, Grio fidgeted and frowned, waiting
with ill-concealed penitence, until the other chose to address him. At length Basterga turned,
and his gleaming eyes, his moon-face pale with anger, withered his companion.

"Again! Again!" he growled--it seemed he dare not lift his voice. "Will you never be satisfied
until we are broken on the wheel? You dog, you! The sooner you are broken the better, were
that all! Ay, and were that all, I could watch the bar fall with pleasure! But do you think
I will see the fruit of years of planning, do you think that I will see the reward of this
brain--this! this, you brainless idiot, who know not what a brain is"--and he tapped his brow
repeatedly with an earnestness almost grotesque--"do you think that I will see this cast away,
because you swill, swine that you are! Swill and prate in your cups!"

"'Fore God, I said nothing!" Grio whined. "I said nothing! It was only that he would not drink
and I----"

"Made him?"

"No, he would not, I say, and we were coming to blows. And then----"

"He gave back, did he?"

"No, Messer Blondel came in."

Cæsar Basterga stretched out his huge arms. "Fool! Fool! Fool!" he hissed, with a gesture of
despair. "There it is! And Blondel, who should have sent you to the whipping-post, or out of
Geneva, has to cloak you! And men ask why, and what there is between our most upright Syndic
and a drunken, bragging----"

"Softly," Grio muttered, with a flash of sullen resentment. "Softly, Messer Basterga! I----"

"A drunken, swilling, prating pig!" the other persisted. "A broken soldier living on an hour
of chance service? Pooh, man," with contempt, "do not threaten me! Do you think that I do not
know you more than half craven? The lad below there would cut your comb yet, did I suffer it.
But that is not the point. The point is that you must needs advertise the world that you and
the Syndic, who has charge of the walls, are hail-fellows, and the world will ask why! Or he
must deal with you as you deserve and out you go from Geneva!"

"Per Bacco! I am not the only soldier," Grio muttered, "who ruffles it here!"

