"Oh, Heaven!  what is it you say?"  she cried, seizing his hand in her own.  "Swear to me that
you will share in no guilty deeds; that you will never forget that the King of France is your
master.  Love him above all, next to her who will sacrifice all for you, who will await you
amid suffering and sorrow.  Take this little gold cross and wear it upon your heart; it has
often been wet with my tears, and those tears will flow still more bitterly if ever you are
faithless to the King.  Give me the ring I see on your finger.  Oh, heavens, my hand and yours
are red with blood!"

"Oh, only a scratch.  Did you hear nothing, an hour ago?"

"No; but listen.  Do you hear anything now?"

"No, Marie, nothing but some bird of night on the tower."

"I heard whispering near us, I am sure.  But whence comes this blood? Tell me, and then depart."

"Yes, I will go, while the clouds are still dark above us.  Farewell, sweet soul; in my hour
of danger I will invoke thee as a guardian angel. Love has infused the burning poison of ambition
into my soul, and for the first time I feel that ambition may be ennobled by its aim.  Farewell!
I go to accomplish my destiny."

"And forget not mine."

"Can they ever be separated?"

"Never!"  exclaimed Marie, "but by death."

"I fear absence still more," said Cinq-Mars.

"Farewell!  I tremble; farewell!"  repeated the beloved voice, and the window was slowly drawn
down, the clasped hands not parting till the last moment.

The black horse had all the while been pawing the earth, tossing his head with impatience,
and whinnying.  Cinq-Mars, as agitated and restless as his steed, gave it the rein; and the
whole party was soon near the city of Tours, which the bells of St. Gatien had announced from
afar.  To the disappointment of old Grandchamp, Cinq-Mars would not enter the town, but proceeded
on his way, and five days later he entered, with his escort, the old city of Loudun in Poitou,
after an uneventful journey.

CHAPTER II

THE STREET

          Je m'avancais d'un pas penible et mal assure vers le but
          de ce convoi tragique.--NODIER, 'Smarra'.

The reign of which we are about to paint a few years--a reign of feebleness, which was like
an eclipse of the crown between the splendors of Henri IV and those of Louis le Grand--afflicts
the eyes which contemplate it with dark stains of blood, and these were not all the work of
one man, but were caused by great and grave bodies.  It is melancholy to observe that in this
age, still full of disorder, the clergy, like a nation, had its populace, as it had its nobility,
its ignorant and its criminal prelates, as well as those who were learned and virtuous.  Since
that time, its remnant of barbarism has been refined away by the long reign of Louis XIV, and
its corruptions have been washed out in the blood of the martyrs whom it offered up to the
revolution of 1793.

We felt it necessary to pause for a moment to express this reflection before entering upon
the recital of the facts presented by the history of this period, and to intimate that, notwithstanding
this consolatory reflection, we have found it incumbent upon us to pass over many details too
odious to occupy a place in our pages, sighing in spirit at those guilty acts which it was
necessary to record, as in relating the life of a virtuous old man, we should lament over the
impetuosities of his passionate youth, or over the corrupt tendencies of his riper age.

When the cavalcade entered the narrow streets of Loudun, they heard strange noises all around
them.  The streets were filled with agitated masses; the bells of the church and of the convent
were ringing furiously, as if the town was in flames; and the whole population, without paying
any attention to the travellers, was pressing tumultuously toward a large edifice that adjoined
the church.  Here and there dense crowds were collected, listening in silence to some voice
that seemed raised in exhortation, or engaged in emphatic reading; then, furious cries, mingled
with pious exclamations, arose from the crowd, which, dispersing, showed the travellers that
the orator was some Capuchin or Franciscan friar, who, holding a wooden crucifix in one hand,
pointed with the other to the large building which was attracting such universal interest.

"Jesu Maria!"  exclaimed an old woman, "who would ever have thought that the Evil Spirit would
choose our old town for his abode?"

"Ay, or that the pious Ursulines should be possessed?"  said another.

"They say that the demon who torments the Superior is called Legion," cried a third:

"One demon, say you?"  interrupted a nun; "there were seven in her poor body, whereunto, doubtless,
she had attached too much importance, by reason of its great beauty, though now 'tis but the
receptacle of evil spirits.  The prior of the Carmelites yesterday expelled the demon Eazas
through her mouth; and the reverend Father Lactantius has driven out in like manner the demon
Beherit.  But the other five will not depart, and when the holy exorcists (whom Heaven support!)
summoned them in Latin to withdraw, they replied insolently that they would not go till they
had proved their power, to the conviction even of the Huguenots and heretics, who, misbelieving
wretches!  seem to doubt it.  The demon Elimi, the worst of them all, as you know, has threatened
to take off Monsieur de Laubardemont's skull-cap to-day, and to dangle it in the air at Miserere."

"Holy Virgin!"  rejoined the first speaker, "I'm all of a tremble!  And to think that many
times I have got this magician Urbain to say masses for me!"

"For myself," exclaimed a girl, crossing herself; "I too confessed to him ten months ago! 
No doubt I should have been possessed myself, but for the relic of Saint-Genevieve I luckily
had about me, and--"

"Luckily, indeed, Martine," interposed a fat gossip; "for--no offence!-- you, as I remember,
were long enough with the handsome sorcerer."

"Pshaw!"  said a young soldier, who had joined the group, smoking his pipe, "don't you know
that pretty Martine was dispossessed a month ago."

The girl blushed, and drew the hood of her black cloak over her face. The elder gossips cast
a glance of indignation at the reckless trooper, and finding themselves now close to the door
of the building, and thus sure of making their way in among the first when it should be thrown
open, sat down upon the stone bench at the side, and, talking of the latest wonders, raised
the expectations of all as to the delight they were about to have in being spectators of something
marvellous--an apparition, perhaps, but at the very least, an administration of the torture.

"Is it true, aunt," asked Martine of the eldest gossip, "that you have heard the demons speak?"

"Yes, child, true as I see you; many and many can say the same; and it was to convince you
of it I brought you with me here, that you may see the power of the Evil One."

"What kind of voice has he?"  continued the girl, glad to encourage a conversation which diverted
from herself the invidious attention procured her by the soldier's raillery.

"Oh, he speaks with a voice like that of the Superior herself, to whom Our Lady be gracious!
Poor young woman!  I was with her yesterday a long time; it was sad to see her tearing her
breast, turning her arms and her legs first one way and then another, and then, all of a sudden,
twisting them together behind her back.  When the holy Father Lactantius pronounced the name
of Urbain Grandier, foam came out of her mouth, and she talked Latin for all the world as if
she were reading the Bible.  Of course, I did not understand what she said, and all I can remember
of it now is, 'Urbanus Magicus rosas diabolica,' which they tell me means that the magician
Urbain had bewitched her with some roses the Devil had given him; and so it must have been,
for while Father Lactantius spoke, out of her ears and neck came a quantity of flame-colored
roses, all smelling of sulphur so strongly that the judge-Advocate called out for every one
present to stop their noses and eyes, for that the demons were about to come out."

"Ah, look there now!"  exclaimed with shrill voices and a triumphant air the whole bevy of
assembled women, turning toward the crowd, and more particularly toward a group of men attired
in black, among whom was standing the young soldier who had cut his joke just before so unceremoniously.

"Listen to the noisy old idiots!"  exclaimed the soldier.  "They think they're at the witches'
Sabbath, but I don't see their broomsticks."

"Young man, young man!"  said a citizen, with a sad air, "jest not upon such subjects in the
open air, or, in such a time as this, the wind may become gushing flames and destroy you."

"Pooh!  I laugh at your exorcists!"  returned the soldier; "my name is Grand-Ferre, and I've
got here a better exorciser than any of you can show."

And significantly grasping the handle of his rapier in one hand, with the other he twisted
up his blond moustache, as he looked fiercely around; but meeting no glance which returned
the defiance of his own, he slowly withdrew, left foot foremost, and strolled along the dark,
narrow streets with all the reckless nonchalance of a young soldier who has just donned his
uniform, and a profound contempt for all who wear not a military coat.

In the meantime eight or ten of the more substantial and rational inhabitants traversed in
a body, slowly and silently, the agitated throng; they seemed overwhelmed with amazement and
distress at the agitation and excitement they witnessed everywhere, and as each new instance
of the popular frenzy appeared, they exchanged glances of wonder and apprehension.  Their mute
depression communicated itself to the working-people, and to the peasants who had flocked in
from the adjacent country, and who, all sought a guide for their opinions in the faces of the
principal townsmen, also for the most part proprietors of the surrounding districts.  They
saw that something calamitous was on foot, and resorted accordingly to the only remedy open
to the ignorant and the beguiled--apathetic resignation.

Yet, in the character of the French peasant is a certain scoffing finesse of which he makes
effective use, sometimes with his equals, and almost invariably with his superiors.  He puts
questions to power as embarrassing as are those which infancy puts to mature age.  He affects
excessive humility, in order to confuse him whom he addresses with the very height of his isolated
elevation.  He exaggerates the awkwardness of his manner and the rudeness of his speech, as
a means of covering his real thoughts under the appearance of mere uncouthness; yet, despite
all his self-command, there is something in his air, certain fierce expressions which betray
him to the close observer, who discerns in his sardonic smile, and in the marked emphasis with
which he leans on his long staff, the hopes that secretly nourish his soul, and the aid upon
which he ultimately relies.

One of the oldest of the peasants whom we have indicated came on vigorously, followed by ten
or twelve young men, his sons and nephews, all wearing the broad-brimmed hat and the blue frock
or blouse of the ancient Gauls, which the peasants of France still wear over their other garments,
as peculiarly adapted to their humid climate and their laborious habits.

When the old man had reached the group of personages of whom we have just spoken, he took off
his hat--an example immediately followed by his whole family--and showed a face tanned with
exposure to the weather, a forehead bald and wrinkled with age, and long, white hair.  His
shoulders were bent with years and labor, but he was still a hale and sturdy man.  He was received
with an air of welcome, and even of respect, by one of the gravest of the grave group he had
approached, who, without uncovering, however, extended to him his hand.

"What!  good Father Guillaume Leroux!" said he, "and have you, too, left our farm of La Chenaie
to visit the town, when it's not market-day?  Why, 'tis as if your oxen were to unharness themselves
and go hunting, leaving their work to see a poor rabbit run down!"

"Faith, Monsieur le Comte du Lude," replied the farmer, "for that matter, sometimes the rabbit
runs across our path of itself; but, in truth, I've a notion that some of the people here want
to make fools of us, and so I've come to see about it."

"Enough of that, my friend," returned the Count; "here is Monsieur Fournier, the Advocate,
who assuredly will not deceive you, for he resigned his office of Attorney-General last night,
that he might henceforth devote his eloquence to the service of his own noble thoughts. You
will hear him, perhaps, to-day, though truly, I dread his appearing for his own sake as much
as I desire it for that of the accused."

"I care not for myself," said Fournier; "truth is with me a passion, and I would have it taught
in all times and all places."

He that spoke was a young man, whose face, pallid in the extreme, was full of the noblest expression.
His blond hair, his light-blue eyes, his thinness, the delicacy of his frame, made him at first
sight seem younger than he was; but his thoughtful and earnest countenance indicated that mental
superiority and that precocious maturity of soul which are developed by deep study in youth,
combined with natural energy of character.  He was attired wholly in black, with a short cloak
in the fashion of the day, and carried under his left arm a roll of documents, which, when
speaking, he would take in the right hand and grasp convulsively, as a warrior in his anger
grasps the pommel of his sword. At one moment it seemed as if he were about to unfurl the scroll,
and from it hurl lightning upon those whom he pursued with looks of fiery indignation--three
Capuchins and a Franciscan, who had just passed.

"Pere Guillaume," pursued M. du Lude, "how is it you have brought with you only your sons,
and they armed with their staves?"

"Faith, Monsieur, I have no desire that our girls should learn to dance of the nuns; and, moreover,
just now the lads with their staves may bestir themselves to better purpose than their sisters
would."

"Take my advice, my old friend," said the Count, "and don't bestir yourselves at all; rather
stand quietly aside to view the procession which you see approaching, and remember that you
are seventy years old."

"Ah!"  murmured the old man, drawing up his twelve sons in double military rank, "I fought
under good King Henriot, and can play at sword and pistol as well as the worthy 'ligueurs';"
and shaking his head he leaned against a post, his knotty staff between his crossed legs, his
hands clasped on its thick butt-end, and his white, bearded chin resting on his hands.  Then,
half closing his eyes, he appeared lost in recollections of his youth.

The bystanders observed with interest his dress, slashed in the fashion of Henri IV, and his
resemblance to the Bearnese monarch in the latter years of his life, though the King's hair
had been prevented by the assassin's blade from acquiring the whiteness which that of the old
peasant had peacefully attained.  A furious pealing of the bells, however, attracted the general
attention to the end of the great street, down which was seen filing a long procession, whose
banners and glittering pikes rose above the heads of the crowd, which successively and in silence
opened a way for the at once absurd and terrible train.

First, two and two, came a body of archers, with pointed beards and large plumed hats, armed
with long halberds, who, ranging in a single file on each side of the middle of the street,
formed an avenue along which marched in solemn order a procession of Gray Penitents--men attired
in long, gray robes, the hoods of which entirely covered their heads; masks of the same stuff
terminated below their chins in points, like beards, each having three holes for the eyes and
nose.  Even at the present day we see these costumes at funerals, more especially in the Pyrenees.
The Penitents of Loudun carried enormous wax candles, and their slow, uniform movement, and
their eyes, which seemed to glitter under their masks, gave them the appearance of phantoms.

The people expressed their various feelings in an undertone:

"There's many a rascal hidden under those masks," said a citizen.

"Ay, and with a face uglier than the mask itself," added a young man.

"They make me afraid," tremulously exclaimed a girl.

"I'm only afraid for my purse," said the first speaker.

"Ah, heaven!  there are our holy brethren, the Penitents," cried an old woman, throwing back
her hood, the better to look at them.  "See the banner they bear!  Ah, neighbors, 'tis a joyful
thing to have it among us!  Beyond a doubt it will save us; see, it shows the devil in flames,
and a monk fastening a chain round his neck, to keep him in hell.  Ah, here come the judges--noble
gentlemen!  dear gentlemen!  Look at their red robes; how beautiful!  Blessed be the Virgin,
they've been well chosen!"

"Every man of them is a personal enemy of the Cure," whispered the Count du Lude to the advocate
Fournier, who took a note of the information.

"Don't you know them, neighbors?"  pursued the shrill, sharp voice of the old woman, as she
elbowed one and pinched another of those near her to attract their attention to the objects
of her admiration; "see, there's excellent Monsieur Mignon, whispering to Messieurs the Counsellors
of the Court of Poitiers; Heaven bless them all, say I!"

"Yes, there are Roatin, Richard, and Chevalier--the very men who tried to have him dismissed
a year ago," continued M. du Lude, in undertones, to the young advocate, who, surrounded and
hidden from public observation by the group of dark-clad citizens, was writing down his observations
in a note-book under his cloak.

"Here; look, look!"  screamed the woman.  "Make way!  here's Monsieur Barre, the Cure of Saint-Jacques
at Chinon."

"A saint!"  murmured one bystander.

"A hypocrite!"  exclaimed a manly voice.

"See how thin he is with fasting!"

"See how pale he is with remorse!"

"He's the man to drive away devils!"

"Yes, but not till he's done with them for his own purposes."

The dialogue was interrupted by the general exclamation, "How beautiful she is!"

The Superior of the Ursulines advanced, followed by all her nuns.  Her white veil was raised;
in order that the people might see the features of the possessed ones, it had been ordered
that it should be thus with her and six of the sisterhood.  Her attire had no distinguishing
feature, except a large rosary extending from her neck nearly to her feet, from which hung
a gold cross; but the dazzling pallor of her face, rendered still more conspicuous by the dark
hue of her capuchon, at once fixed the general gaze upon her.  Her brilliant, dark eyes, which
bore the impress of some deep and burning passion, were crowned with eyebrows so perfectly
arched that Nature herself seemed to have taken as much pains to form them as the Circassian
women to pencil theirs artistically; but between them a slight fold revealed the powerful agitation
within.  In her movements, however, and throughout her whole bearing, she affected perfect
calm; her steps were slow and measured, and her beautiful hands were crossed on her bosom,
as white and motionless as those of the marble statues joined in eternal prayer.

"See, aunt," ejaculated Martine, "see how Sister Agnes and Sister Claire are weeping, next
to the Superior!"

"Ay, niece, they weep because they are the prey of the demon."

"Or rather," interposed the same manly voice that spoke before, "because they repent of having
mocked Heaven."

A deep silence now pervaded the multitude; not a word was heard, not a movement, hardly a breath.
Every one seemed paralyzed by some sudden enchantment, when, following the nuns, among four
Penitents who held him in chains, appeared the Cure of the Church of Ste. Croix, attired in
his pastor's robe.  His was a noble, fine face, with grandeur in its whole expression, and
gentleness in every feature.  Affecting no scornful indifference to his position, he looked
calmly and kindly around, as if he sought on his dark path the affectionate glances of those
who loved him.  Nor did he seek in vain; here and there he encountered those glances, and joyfully
returned them.  He even heard sobs, and he saw hands extended toward him, many of which grasped
weapons.  But no gesture of his encouraged these mute offers of aid; he lowered his eyes and
went on, careful not to compromise those who so trusted in him, or to involve them in his own
misfortunes.  This was Urbain Grandier.

Suddenly the procession stopped, at a sign from the man who walked apart, and who seemed to
command its progress.  He was tall, thin, sallow; he wore a long black robe, with a cap of
the same material and color; he had the face of a Don Basilio, with the eye of Nero.  He motioned
the guards to surround him more closely, when he saw with affright the dark group we have mentioned,
and the strong-limbed and resolute peasants who seemed in attendance upon them.  Then, advancing
somewhat before the Canons and Capuchins who were with him, he pronounced, in a shrill voice,
this singular decree:

     "We, Sieur de Laubardemont, referendary, being delegated and
     invested with discretionary power in the matter of the trial of the
     magician Urbain Grandier, upon the various articles of accusation
     brought against him, assisted by the reverend Fathers Mignon, canon,
     Barre, cure of St. Jacques at Chinon, Father Lactantius, and all the
     other judges appointed to try the said magician, have decreed as
     follows:

     "Primo: the factitious assembly of proprietors, noble citizens of
     this town and its environs, is dissolved, as tending to popular
     sedition; its proceedings are declared null, and its letter to the
     King, against us, the judges, which has been intercepted, shall be
     publicly burned in the marketplace as calumniating the good
     Ursulines and the reverend fathers and judges.

     "Secundo: it is forbidden to say, publicly or in private, that the
     said nuns are not possessed by the Evil Spirit, or to doubt of the
     power of the exorcists, under pain of a fine of twenty thousand
     livres, and corporal punishment.

     "Let the bailiffs and sheriffs obey this.  Given the eighteenth of
     June, in the year of grace 1639."

Before he had well finished reading the decree, the discordant blare of trumpets, bursting
forth at a prearranged signal, drowned, to a certain extent, the murmurs that followed its
proclamation, amid which Laubardemont urged forward the procession, which entered the great
building already referred to--an ancient convent, whose interior had crumbled away, its walls
now forming one vast hall, well adapted for the purpose to which it was about to be applied.
Laubardemont did not deem himself safe until he was within the building and had heard the heavy,
double doors creak on their hinges as, closing, they excluded the furious crowd without.

CHAPTER III

THE GOOD PRIEST

          L'homme de paix me parla ainsi.--VICAIRE SAVOYARD.

Now that the diabolical procession is in the arena destined for its spectacle, and is arranging
its sanguinary representation, let us see what Cinq-Mars had been doing amid the agitated throng.
He was naturally endowed with great tact, and he felt that it would be no easy matter for him
to attain his object of seeing the Abbe Quillet, at a time when public excitement was at its
height.  He therefore remained on horseback with his four servants in a small, dark street
that led into the main thoroughfare, whence he could see all that passed.  No one at first
paid any attention to him; but when public curiosity had no other aliment, he became an object
of general interest.  Weary of so many strange scenes, the inhabitants looked upon him with
some exasperation, and whispered to one another, asking whether this was another exorcist come
among them.  Feeling that it was time to take a decided course, he advanced with his attendants,
hat in hand, toward the group in black of whom we have spoken, and addressing him who appeared
its chief member, said, "Monsieur, where can I find Monsieur l'Abbe Quillet?"

At this name, all regarded him with an air of terror, as if he had pronounced that of Lucifer.
Yet no anger was shown; on the contrary, it seemed that the question had favorably changed
for him the minds of all who heard him.  Moreover, chance had served him well in his choice;
the Comte du Lude came up to his horse, and saluting him, said, "Dismount, Monsieur, and I
will give you some useful information concerning him."

After speaking a while in whispers, the two gentlemen separated with all the ceremonious courtesy
of the time.  Cinq-Mars remounted his black horse, and passing through numerous narrow streets,
was soon out of the crowd with his retinue.

"How happy I am!"  he soliloquized, as he went his way; "I shall, at all events, for a moment
see the good and kind clergyman who brought me up; even now I recall his features, his calm
air, his voice so full of gentleness."

As these tender thoughts filled his mind, he found himself in the small, dark street which
had been indicated to him; it was so narrow that the knee-pieces of his boots touched the wall
on each side.  At the end of the street he came to a one-storied wooden house, and in his eagerness
knocked at the door with repeated strokes.

"Who is there?"  cried a furious voice within; and at the same moment, the door opening revealed
a little short, fat man, with a very red face, dressed in black, with a large white ruff, and
riding-boots which engulfed his short legs in their vast depths.  In his hands were a pair
of horse-pistols.

"I will sell my life dearly!"  he cried; "and--"

"Softly, Abbe, softly," said his pupil, taking his arm; "we are friends."

"Ah, my son, is it you?"  said the good man, letting fall his pistols, which were picked up
by a domestic, also armed to the teeth.  "What do you here?  The abomination has entered the
town, and I only await the night to depart.  Make haste within, my dear boy, with your people.
I took you for the archers of Laubardemont, and, faith, I intended to take a part somewhat
out of my line.  You see the horses in the courtyard there; they will convey me to Italy, where
I shall rejoin our friend, the Duc de Bouillon.  Jean!  Jean!  hasten and close the great gate
after Monsieur's domestics, and recommend them not to make too much noise, although for that
matter we have no habitation near us."

Grandchamp obeyed the intrepid little Abbe, who then embraced Cinq-Mars four consecutive times,
raising himself on the points of his boots, so as to attain the middle of his pupil's breast.
He then hurried him into a small room, which looked like a deserted granary; and seating him
beside himself upon a black leather trunk, he said, warmly:

"Well, my son, whither go you?  How came Madame la Marechale to allow you to come here?  Do
you not see what they are doing against an unhappy man, whose death alone will content them?
Alas, merciful Heaven!  is this the first spectacle my dear pupil is to see?  And you at that
delightful period of life when friendship, love, confidence, should alone encompass you; when
all around you should give you a favorable opinion of your species, at your very entry into
the great world!  How unfortunate! alas, why did you come?"

When the good Abbe had followed up this lamentation by pressing affectionately both hands of
the young traveller in his own, so red and wrinkled, the latter answered:

"Can you not guess, my dear Abbe, that I came to Loudun because you are here?  As to the spectacle
you speak of, it appears to me simply ridiculous; and I swear that I do not a whit the less
on its account love that human race of which your virtues and your good lessons have given
me an excellent idea.  As to the five or six mad women who--"

"Let us not lose time; I will explain to you all that matter; but answer me, whither go you,
and for what?"

"I am going to Perpignan, where the Cardinal-Duke is to present me to the King."

At this the worthy but hasty Abbe rose from his box, and walked, or rather ran, to and fro,
stamping.  "The Cardinal!  the Cardinal!"  he repeated, almost choking, his face becoming scarlet,
and the tears rising to his eyes; "My poor child!  they will destroy him!  Ah, mon Dieu!  what
part would they have him play there?  What would they do with him?  Ah, who will protect thee,
my son, in that dangerous place?"  he continued, reseating himself, and again taking his pupil's
hands in his own with a paternal solicitude, as he endeavored to read his thoughts in his countenance.

"Why, I do not exactly know," said Cinq-Mars, looking up at the ceiling; "but I suppose it
will be the Cardinal de Richelieu, who was the friend of my father."

"Ah, my dear Henri, you make me tremble; he will ruin you unless you become his docile instrument.
Alas, why can not I go with you?  Why must I act the young man of twenty in this unfortunate
affair?  Alas, I should be perilous to you; I must, on the contrary, conceal myself.  But you
will have Monsieur de Thou near you, my son, will you not?"  said he, trying to reassure himself;
"he was your friend in childhood, though somewhat older than yourself.  Heed his counsels,
my child, he is a wise young man of mature reflection and solid ideas."

"Oh, yes, my dear Abbe, you may depend upon my tender attachment for him; I never have ceased
to love him."

"But you have ceased to write to him, have you not?"  asked the good Abbe, half smilingly.

"I beg your pardon, my dear Abbe, I wrote to him once, and again yesterday, to inform him that
the Cardinal has invited me to court."

"How! has he himself desired your presence?"

Cinq-Mars hereupon showed the letter of the Cardinal-Duke to his mother, and his old preceptor
grew gradually calmer.

"Ah, well!"  said he to himself, "this is not so bad, perhaps, after all. It looks promising;
a captain of the guards at twenty--that sounds well!" and the worthy Abbe's face became all smiles.

The young man, delighted to see these smiles, which so harmonized with his own thoughts, fell
upon the neck of the Abbe and embraced him, as if the good man had thus assured to him a futurity
of pleasure, glory, and love.

But the good Abbe, with difficulty disengaging himself from this warm embrace, resumed his
walk, his reflections, and his gravity.  He coughed often and shook his head; and Cinq-Mars,
not venturing to pursue the conversation, watched him, and became sad as he saw him become serious.

The old man at last sat down, and in a mournful tone addressed his pupil:

"My friend, my son, I have for a moment yielded like a father to your hopes; but I must tell
you, and it is not to afflict you, that they appear to me excessive and unnatural.  If the
Cardinal's sole aim were to show attachment and gratitude toward your family, he would not
have carried his favors so far; no, the extreme probability is that he has designs upon you.
From what has been told him, he thinks you adapted to play some part, as yet impossible for
us to divine, but which he himself has traced out in the deepest recesses of his mind.  He
wishes to educate you for this; he wishes to drill you into it.  Allow me the expression in
consideration of its accuracy, and think seriously of it when the time shall come.  But I am
inclined to believe that, as matters are, you would do well to follow up this vein in the great
mine of State; in this way high fortunes have begun.  You must only take heed not to be blinded
and led at will.  Let not favors dazzle you, my poor child, and let not elevation turn your
head.  Be not so indignant at the suggestion; the thing has happened to older men than yourself.
Write to me often, as well as to your mother; see Monsieur de Thou, and together we will try
to keep you in good counsel.  Now, my son, be kind enough to close that window through which
the wind comes upon my head, and I will tell you what has been going on here."

Henri, trusting that the moral part of the discourse was over, and anticipating nothing in
the second part but a narrative more or less interesting, closed the old casement, festooned
with cobwebs, and resumed his seat without speaking.

"Now that I reflect further," continued the Abbe, "I think it will not perhaps be unprofitable
for you to have passed through this place, although it be a sad experience you shall have acquired;
but it will supply what I may not have formerly told you of the wickedness of men. I hope,
moreover, that the result will not be fatal, and that the letter we have written to the King
will arrive in time."

"I heard that it had been intercepted," interposed Cinq-Mars.

"Then all is over," said the Abbe Quillet; "the Cure is lost.  But listen.  God forbid, my
son, that I, your old tutor, should seek to assail my own work, and attempt to weaken your
faith!  Preserve ever and everywhere that simple creed of which your noble family has given
you the example, which our fathers possessed in a still higher degree than we, and of which
the greatest captains of our time are not ashamed.  Always, while you wear a sword, remember
that you hold it for the service of God. But at the same time, when you are among men, avoid
being deceived by the hypocrite.  He will encompass you, my son; he will assail you on the
vulnerable side of your ingenuous heart, in addressing your religion; and seeing the extravagance
of his affected zeal, you will fancy yourself lukewarm as compared with him.  You will think
that your conscience cries out against you; but it will not be the voice of conscience that
you hear.  And what cries would not that conscience send forth, how fiercely would it not rise
upon you, did you contribute to the destruction of innocence by invoking Heaven itself as a
false witness against it?"

"Oh, my father!  can such things be possible?"  exclaimed Henri d'Effiat, clasping his hands.

"It is but too true," continued the Abbe; "you saw a partial execution of it this morning.
God grant you may not witness still greater horrors! But listen!  whatever you may see, whatever
crime they dare to commit, I conjure you, in the name of your mother and of all that you hold
dear, say not a word; make not a gesture that may indicate any opinion whatever.  I know the
impetuous character that you derive from the Marechal, your father; curb it, or you are lost.
These little ebullitions of passion give but slight satisfaction, and bring about great misfortunes.
I have observed you give way to them too much. Oh, did you but know the advantage that a calm
temper gives one over men! The ancients stamped it on the forehead of the divinity as his finest
attribute, since it shows that he is superior to our fears and to our hopes, to our pleasures
and to our pains.  Therefore, my dear child, remain passive in the scenes you are about to
witness; but see them you must.  Be present at this sad trial; for me, I must suffer the consequences
of my schoolboy folly.  I will relate it to you; it will prove to you that with a bald head
one may be as much a child as with your fine chestnut curls."

And the excellent old Abbe, taking his pupil's head affectionately between his hands, continued:

"Like other people, my dear son, I was curious to see the devils of the Ursulines; and knowing
that they professed to speak all languages, I was so imprudent as to cease speaking Latin and
to question them in Greek. The Superior is very pretty, but she does not know Greek!  Duncan,
the physician, observed aloud that it was surprising that the demon, who knew everything, should
commit barbarisms and solecisms in Latin, and not be able to answer in Greek.  The young Superior,
who was then upon her bed, turned toward the wall to weep, and said in an undertone to Father
Barre, 'I can not go on with this, father.' I repeated her words aloud, and infuriated all
the exorcists; they cried out that I ought to know that there are demons more ignorant than
peasants, and said that as to their power and physical strength, it could not be doubted, since
the spirits named Gresil des Trones, Aman des Puissance, and Asmodeus, had promised to carry
off the calotte of Monsieur de Laubardemont.  They were preparing for this, when the physician
Duncan, a learned and upright man, but somewhat of a scoffer, took it into his head to pull
a cord he discovered fastened to a column like a bell-rope, and which hung down just close
to the referendary's head; whereupon they called him a Huguenot, and I am satisfied that if
Marechal de Breze were not his protector, it would have gone ill with him.  The Comte du Lude
then came forward with his customary 'sang-froid', and begged the exorcists to perform before
him.  Father Lactantius, the Capuchin with the dark visage and hard look, proceeded with Sister
Agnes and Sister Claire; he raised both his hands, looking at them as a serpent would look
at two dogs, and cried in a terrible voice, 'Quis to misit, Diabole?' and the two sisters answered,
as with one voice, 'Urbanus.'  He was about to continue, when Monsieur du Lude, taking out
of his pocket, with an air of veneration, a small gold box, said that he had in it a relic
left by his ancestors, and that though not doubting the fact of the possession, he wished to
test it.  Father Lactantius seized the box with delight, and hardly had he touched the foreheads
of the two sisters with it when they made great leaps and twisted about their hands and feet.
Lactantius shouted forth his exorcisms; Barre threw himself upon his knees with all the old
women; and Mignon and the judges applauded.  The impassible Laubardemont made the sign of the
cross, without being struck dead for it!  When Monsieur du Lude took back his box the nuns
became still.  'I think,' said Lactantius, insolently, 'that--you will not question your relics
now.' 'No more than I do the possession,' answered Monsieur du Lude, opening his box and showing
that it was empty.  'Monsieur, you mock us,' said Lactantius.  I was indignant at these mummeries,
and said to him, 'Yes, Monsieur, as you mock God and men.' And this, my dear friend, is the
reason why you see me in my seven-league boots, so heavy that they hurt my legs, and with pistols;
for our friend Laubardemont has ordered my person to be seized, and I don't choose it to be
seized, old as it is."

"What, is he so powerful, then?"  cried Cinq-Mars.

