General: At the request of Colonel Thomas, I beg your attention to a few considerations touching
the turning over of the care of the freedmen in Mississippi to the State authorities, so far
as the transfer bears upon the religious and educational privileges of the colored people.
Perhaps no one who has been less engaged in caring for the education and the moral interests
of these people can fully appreciate the facts that I intend to lay before you, or understand
them as having the intensity of meaning that I see in them.

I have seen a good deal of the people of Mississippi, and have purposely sounded them as to
their feelings with regard to the effort to educate the blacks. The general feeling is that
of strong opposition to it. Only one person resident in Mississippi before the rebellion has
expressed himself to me as in favor of it, and he did not propose to do anything to aid it;
and, to show how much his favor was worth, he said he regretted that he was not able to prevent
the negroes from having shouting meetings, and that he would keep them from going off the plantation
to meeting now if he could, as he formerly did. Aside from this gentleman, every native Mississippian
and Irishman with whom I have conversed opposes the instruction of freedmen. Some disguise
their opposition by affected contemptuous disbelief of the negro's capacity. All the facts
that we can give them, however rich and suggestive, are received with sneering incredulity
and the assurance that they know the negroes better than we do. A little persistence in giving
this class of men facts disproving their assertions usually makes them angry, and leads them
to declare that if the negroes can learn, the greater the damage that will be done them, for
the education will do them no good, and will spoil them. Others take this last-mentioned ground
at first, and say that a learned negro is a nuisance; for, while he is ignorant, stupid, and
loutish, he may be compelled to labor; but as soon as he comes to know something the white
people cannot make so profitable use of him.

Some manifest great spite when this subject is mentioned. They say we are trying to make the
negro equal with them. Many do not hesitate to say that he ought to be kept uneducated in order
that he may not be superior to ignorant white men.

I have discovered that many object to the negro women's being educated lest they should be
led to respect themselves, and not so easily be made the instruments of the white man's lust.

The people of Vicksburg have asked Colonel Thomas to prevent the establishment of colored schools
within the city--they would probably say, to preserve the peace of the city; but I feel sure
it is because the sight of them gives pain. And if their removal ever becomes necessary to
the peace of a place, the fact will illustrate public feeling sufficiently.

I have heard more than one person say that he would kill a colored teacher if he ever saw one.

The children of a community generally express the public feeling, and we may usually learn
from them what the feeling is, even when the parents, from prudence, seek to conceal it. Children
often exaggerate, but they get their bias at home. The children of Mississippi throw stones
at colored scholars, and are only restrained by fear from mobbing colored schools.

