A message was dispatched to the Governor to request a commission authorizing the expedition
against the Indians.[519] But Bacon promised his men that if Sir William withheld his assent,
he would lead them forth without it; and in the meanwhile, without waiting for the Governor's
reply, he crossed over into New Kent, "a county ripe for rebellion", where he expected to strengthen
his position and perhaps attack the Pamunkeys.[520] This nation had for many years been friendly
to the English, and had more than once given them invaluable assistance against other Indian
tribes. Their present queen was the widow of Tottopottomoi, who had been killed while fighting
as the ally of the white men against the Richahecrians.[521] They now occupied land allotted
them by the Assembly, upon the frontier of New Kent, where, it was supposed, they would act
as a protection to the colony against the raids of hostile tribes.[522] When the Susquehannocks
began their depredations Governor Berkeley expected valuable assistance from these allies,
whom he termed his "spyes and intelligence" to search out "the bloody enimies".[523] But the
Pamunkeys not only failed to check the invasion of the Susquehannocks, but seem to have joined
with them in the work of bloodshed and pillage. The people of the frontier believed that almost
all the Indians were leagued together for their ruin. The Pamunkeys, they were sure, had taken
part in the recent atrocities. And as they were their close neighbors, knowing all their customs
and all their habitations, they were especially fitted for the work of destruction. The New
Kent planters were now impatient to march out against them to take revenge for the recent horrible
murders. But the Pamunkeys, upon hearing of Bacon's approach, deserted their reservation and
took refuge in the wilderness.[524]

It is not hard to imagine the Governor's anger when he heard of these proceedings. Despite
the testimony of the frontiersmen, he had refused to believe the Pamunkeys guilty, and he still
relied upon them for assistance against the Susquehannocks. Bacon's proceedings, in frightening
them from their lands, upset all his plans of defense. Yet had the volunteers contented themselves
with attacking the Indians, it is conceivable that Berkeley would have yielded. But when they
took up arms without his permission, put themselves under the command of a discontented Councillor,
and demanded redress of grievances from the government, it was necessary for him to resort
to repression. The commission was refused and a proclamation issued denouncing Bacon's conduct
as illegal and rebellious. He and his men were offered pardon, but only on condition that they
lay down their arms, and return immediately to their obedience.[525]

But the mutineers would not obey. Are we, they complained, to return passively to our homes,
there to be slaughtered by the savage foe? The Governor has given us no protection. The Indians
are coming. Already the blood of our butchered relatives cries aloud to Heaven. We hope we
have still enough English blood in our veins to think it more honorable to die in fair battle
with the enemy, than to be sneakingly murdered in our beds. If we lie still, we are destroyed
by the heathen; if we defend ourselves, we are accounted rebels and traitors. But we will fight.
And if we must be hanged for killing those that will destroy us, let them hang us, we will
venture that rather than lie at the mercy of our barbarous enemies. So, turning their backs
upon the plantations, they struck out into the dense woods.[526]

When Berkeley heard that his authority was still defied, and his pardon rejected, he was resolved
at all hazards to compel obedience. Gathering around him a party of three hundred gentlemen,
"well armed and mounted", he set out, on the third of May, to intercept the rebels.[527] But
learning, upon his arrival at the falls of the James, that Bacon had crossed the river and
was already far away, he decided to encamp in the frontier counties and await his return.[528]

But he sent out a party under Colonel Claiborne to pursue the Pamunkeys, and induce them, if
possible, to return to their reservation. The savages were found entrenched in a strong; position,
"encompassed with trees which they had fallen in the branch of an Impassable swamp".[529] Their
queen refused to abandon this retreat, declaring that since the Governor had not been able
to command the obedience of Bacon, he could not save her people from his violence. But she
promised that the Pamunkeys should remain peaceable and should take no part in the raids of
the Susquehannocks. "Of this the Governor was informed, who resolved not to be soe answered
but to reduce her and the other Indians, soe soone as Bacon could be brought to submit."[530]

On May the tenth Berkeley issued a new proclamation. The taking of arms by Bacon, he said,
against his wishes and commands, was an act of disloyalty and rebellion. If permitted to go
unpunished, it would tend to the ruin and overthrow of all government in the colony. It was
his duty to use all the forces at his command to suppress so dangerous a mutiny. Should the
misguided people desert their leader, and return to their allegiance, he would grant a free
and full pardon. And as Nathaniel Bacon had shown himself by his rash proceedings utterly unworthy
of public trust, he suspended him from the Council and from all other offices held by him.
It was amazing, he said, that after he had been Governor of Virginia so many years, and had
done always equal justice to all men, the people should be seduced and carried away by so young
and turbulent a person as Bacon.[531]

But although Berkeley was determined to suppress the rebels by force of arms, the attitude
of the commons in other parts of the colony became so threatening that he was forced to make
some concessions. To the great joy of the people he dissolved the unpopular Long Assembly,
and ordered a new election. It was with sorrow, he declared, that he departed with the present
Burgesses, who had given frequent proof of ability and wisdom. But the complaints of many inhabitants
of the long continuance of the old Assembly had induced him to grant a free election. And if
any man had grievances against his government, or could accuse him of injustice or bribery,
he was to present his complaint by his Burgesses to the Assembly, where it would be examined.[532]

It was indeed time for the Governor to act, for the rebellion was spreading to the older and
more populous counties.[533] The people there too were denouncing the forts, and demanding
redress of grievances. Some began to arm, and it seemed not improbable that the entire colony
might soon be ablaze. Hastening back to his residence at Green Spring, he sought to appease
the people by dismantling the obnoxious forts and dismissing their garrisons.[534]

In the meanwhile Bacon was making his way through the woods southward from the falls of the
James in pursuit of the Susquehannocks that had committed the recent murders upon the frontier.[535]
These savages had not attempted to return to their homes north of the Potomac, but had retired
to the country of the Occaneechees, where they had entrenched themselves in two forts.[536]
The Occaneechees dwelt in the southernmost part of Virginia, near the site of Clarksville.[537]
They are described as a stout people, and the most enterprising of traders. Their chief town,
situated upon an island in the Roanoke River and defended by three strong forts, was "the Mart
for all the Indians for att least 500 miles" around.[538] The beaver skins stored in this place
at the time of Bacon's expedition are said to have valued no less than £1,000.[539] Persicles,
their king, was reported to be an enlightened ruler, "a very brave man & ever true to ye English".[540]

It was toward this island that Bacon led his men. But a quest for Indian allies took him far
out of his route. Everywhere he found the savages reluctant to aid him, even those nations
that had formerly been most friendly to the English now holding aloof from them. This embarrassed
him greatly for he had relied upon receiving aid from several tribes, and his food was not
sufficient for a long march. As the little army went further and further into the wilderness,
they began to face the possibility of starvation. When at last they approached the Occaneechee
country and received promises of aid from Persicles, their provisions were nearly exhausted.[541]

Upon reaching the Roanoke the English crossed the north branch of the river and encamped upon
the Occaneechee island.[542] To his deep satisfaction, Bacon found Persicles embroiled with
the Susquehannocks, and already preparing for their destruction. When these wanderers from
the north first came to him, Persicles had received them with kindness and had relieved their
needs. But they, "being exercised in warr for many years with the Senecaes, and living on rapin,
endeavoured to beat the Ockinagees of their own Island".[543] Persicles had defeated them,
however, and forced them to take refuge in their two forts.[544]

Now the Susquehannocks, in their southward march, had subdued and brought with them some members
of the Mannakin and Annelecton tribes.[545] These savages, although they lived with their conquerors,
had no love for them, and were quite willing to join in any plan for their destruction. Persicles,
it would seem, was plotting with them to surprise and cut off the Susquehannocks, when Bacon
appeared with his men. Fearing, no doubt, that the participation of the English in the attack
would render secrecy impossible, Persicles left them on the island, and went out alone against
the enemy.[546] The Mannakins and Annelectons proved true to their allies and the Susquehannocks
were easily defeated. Persicles returned in triumph, bringing with him several prisoners. These
he wished the English to execute, but they "refused to take that office".[547] Thereupon he
himself put them to death with all the usual Indian tortures, "running fyer brands up their
bodys & the like".[548]

But now the friendship of Persicles and the English came abruptly to an end. The Berkeley party
afterwards claimed that Bacon deliberately picked a quarrel with his allies, and attacked them
without provocation.[549] It would be unjust, however, to place too much confidence in these
charges. Bacon's men found themselves in a most critical situation. They were many miles from
the plantations, surrounded by the savages, their provisions exhausted. Persicles, they asserted,
had failed to keep his promise to supply them with food. He was assuming a threatening posture,
manning his forts, and lining the river bank with his warriors. For Bacon to retreat from the
island under these circumstances, would have exposed his company to destruction. To remain
passive was to starve.[550]

As the English became more insistent in their demands for food, Persicles retired to one of
his forts, and refused further conference. Many of the savages, seeing hostilities imminent,
deserted their cabins and began to rush in through the entrances of their fortresses. But Bacon
interposed his men, and succeeded in shutting out many of them.[551] Now from the Indians across
the river came a shot, and one of the English fell dead.[552] Instantly Bacon ordered a general
attack. The defenseless men, women and children left in the cabins were mercilessly butchered.
At the same time fire was opened upon the forts. The soldiers rushed up to the portholes, and
poured their volleys directly in upon the wretched savages.[553] A hideous din arose. The singing
and howling of the warriors was mingled with the moans of the dying. Fire was set to one of
the forts, in which were the king's wife and children. As the flames arose, three or four braves
made a dash for safety through the line of the English. All others in this fort, including
the king's family, perished amid the burning timbers.[554]

The next day the fight was continued from morn till night. Several times the savages sallied
forth from their remaining forts, and placing themselves behind trees, opened fire upon the
English. But Bacon's frontiersmen were accustomed to this method of warfare. So well were they
posted and so cleverly concealed, that most of the enemy were picked off as they stood. At
last Persicles himself led forth a party of about twenty men in a desperate attack upon his
enemy. With great bravery they rushed around the English in a wide circle, howling and firing.
But they too were unsuccessful. Persicles was killed. Several of his men were shot on the bank
of the river, and fell into the water. Of all this party seven only were seen to escape.[555]

It now seemed hopeless for the Indians to fight further. With their king and many of their
warriors dead, and with one of their forts in ruins, their ultimate destruction was certain
if they remained upon the island. So, with their women and children, they deserted the remaining
forts and escaped. How they managed to slip past the victorious white men and make their way
across the river is not explained. Thinking it best not to follow, Bacon secured his plunder,
and turned his face back towards the plantations.[556]

The news of the victory over the savages was received with enthusiasm in the frontier counties.
Bacon had been popular with the people before; he now became their idol.[557] He and his men,
upon their return, found the entire colony deeply interested in the election of a new House
of Burgesses. In various places popular candidates, men in sympathy with Bacon, were being
nominated.[558] In Henrico county the people showed their contempt for the Governor's proclamations
by electing Bacon himself.[559]

But it would be a matter of no little risk for him to go to Jamestown to take his seat in the
Assembly. While surrounded by his loyal frontiersmen in his own county he might well ignore
the proclamations against him, but if he put himself in the Governor's power, that fiery old
man might not hesitate to hang him as a rebel. His friends would not allow him to go unprotected,
and insisted upon sending with him a guard of forty or fifty armed men.[560] Embarking with
this company in a sloop, Bacon wended his way down the crooked James to the capital. He cast
anchor a short distance above the town and sent to the Governor to know whether he would be
allowed to take his seat in the Assembly without molestation.[561] For reply Sir William opened
fire upon the sloop with the guns of the fort.[562] Whereupon Bacon sailed further up the river
out of danger.[563] But that night he landed with twenty of his men, and unobserved by any,
slipped silently into town.[564]

In the place resided Richard Lawrence and William Drummond, both deeply impressed with the
need of reform in Virginia, and both in sympathy with Bacon's movement. Repairing to Lawrence's
house, Bacon conferred with these two friends for several hours.[565] Upon reëmbarking he was
discovered. Alarm was immediately given in the town and several boats filled with armed men
pursued him up the river. At the same time Captain Gardner, commanding the ship Adam and Eve,
was ordered to follow the fugitives, and capture or sink the sloop. For some hours Bacon eluded
them all. Finally, however, about three the next afternoon, he was driven by the small boats
under the guns of the Adam and Eve, and forced to surrender.[566] Coming on board he was entrusted
to Captain Gardner and Captain Hubert Farrill, and by them conducted to the Governor.[567]

As the prisoner was led before him, the old man lifted his eyes and arms to Heaven, exclaiming,
"Now I behold the greatest Rebell that ever was in Virginia!"[568] After some moments he added,
"Mr. Bacon, doe you continue to be a gentleman? And may I take your word? If so you are at
liberty upon your parol."[569] Later, when the rebel expressed gratitude at this mild treatment
and repentance for his disobedience, Berkeley promised to grant him a free pardon. And should
he offer a humble submission, he was to be restored to his seat in the Council, and even receive
the long desired commission.[570]

In this unexpected leniency the Governor was probably actuated not by magnanimity, but by policy,
or perhaps necessity. When the rebel was out upon his Indian expedition, Sir William had not
scrupled to tell Mrs. Bacon that he would most certainly hang her husband, if ever he got him
in his power.[571] But now he dared not do so. Bacon was regarded by a large part of the people
as their leader in a struggle for justice and liberty; to treat him too harshly might set the
entire colony ablaze. Whereupon the rebel entered, and dropping upon his knee, presented his
submission. "God forgive you," said the Governor, "I forgive you." "And all that were with
him?" asked one of the Council. "Yea," said Sir William, "all that were with him."[574] That
very day Bacon was restored to his seat in the Council.[575] The soldiers that had been captured
with him were freed from their chains and permitted to return to their homes.[576] And, to
the great joy of the people, it was publicly announced by one of the Burgesses, that Bacon
had been granted a commission as general in the Indian war.[577] Feeling that all was now well,
and that their presence in Jamestown was no longer necessary, the sturdy frontiersmen shouldered
their fusils, and returned to their plantations.[578]

But the reconciliation could be but temporary. Bacon's repentance and submission had been forced
from him while helpless in the Governor's power. He did not consider it morally binding. And
so long as the people's grievances were not righted, and the Indian war was neglected, he could
not be content to remain inactive and submissive. On the other hand, Sir William probably felt
that his promise of a commission had been exacted by the unlawful threats of Bacon's friends,
and might be broken without dishonor.[579]

After waiting several days for his papers, Bacon became suspicious of the Governor's intentions,
and set out for his home in Henrico.[580] Berkeley consented to his departure, and he took
"civill leave", but immediately afterwards he repented bitterly that he had let his enemy thus
slip through his fingers. It is probable that information came to him just too late, that Bacon
was again meditating resistance. Parties of men were sent out upon the roads and up the river
to intercept his flight. The very beds of his lodging house were searched in desperate haste,
in the hope that he had not yet left Jamestown. But all in vain. Bacon had ridden quietly out
of town, without servants or friends, and was now far on his way towards the frontier.[581]

On his arrival at Henrico, his old comrades flocked around him, eager to be led out against
the Indians, and confident in the belief that Bacon was authorized to command them. And when
they learned that he had not secured a commission, and was once more a fugitive, they "sett
their throats in one common key of Oathes and curses, and cried out aloud, that they would
either have a Commission ... or else they would pull downe the Towne".[582] And as the news
spread from place to place, rough, angry men came flocking in to Bacon, promising that if he
would but lead them to the Governor, they would soon get him what he pleased. "Thus the raging
tumult came downe to Towne."[583]

Vague rumors began to reach the Assembly that Bacon was marching on Jamestown at the head of
five hundred men.[584] By June the twenty-second, it became definitely known that the rebels
were approaching.[585] Berkeley sent out several messengers to demand their intentions, but
could get no satisfactory reply. Hasty preparations were made to defend the town.[586] The
neighboring militia was summoned. Four guns were dragged to Sandy Bay to command the narrow
neck of land that connected the peninsula with the left bank of the river.[587] It was proposed
to construct palisades across the isthmus. Early on the morning of the 23d, Berkeley went out
himself to direct the mounting of the guns.[588] But it was too late. On all sides the people
were crying, "To arms! To arms! Bacon is within two miles of the town." The rebels were threatening,
it was reported, that if a gun was fired against them, they would kill and destroy all.[589]
Seeing that resistance would be useless, and might be fatal, the Governor ordered the guns
to be dismounted, withdrew his soldiers, and retired to the state house.[590]

And so the rebels streamed unresisted into the town, a motley crew of many sorts and conditions:
Rough, weather-beaten, determined frontiersmen, bent on having the commission for their leader;
poor planters, sunk deep in debt, denouncing the government and demanding relief from their
taxes; freedmen whose release from bondage had brought them little but hunger and nakedness.
Moderation and reason were not to be expected of such a band, and it is not strange that many
of them talked openly of overthrowing the government and sharing the property of the rich among
themselves. Sixteen years of oppression and injustice were bearing their natural fruit--rebellion.[591]

"Now tagg, ragg & bobtayle carry a high hand."[592] Bacon leaves a force to guard Sandy Bay,
stations parties at the ferry and the fort, and draws up his little army before the state-house.[593]
Two Councillors come out from Berkeley to demand what he wants. Bacon replies that he has come
for a commission as general of volunteers enrolled against the Indians. And he protests that
if the Assembly intends a levy for new forces, his men will refuse to pay it. The ragged troops
shout their approval with cries of "Noe Levies! Noe Levies!"[594]

It is easy to imagine with what anger the Governor drew up and signed the commission. But he
dared not refuse it. He was in the power of the rebels, who were already muttering threats
of bloodshed and pillage. To defy them might bring instant ruin.[595] When the commission was
brought out, and Bacon had read it to his soldiers, he refused to accept it, declaring the
powers granted insufficient. Thereupon he drew up the heads of a new paper, in which his loyalty
to the king and the legality of his past actions were attested, and an appointment given him
as general of all the forces in Virginia used in the Indian war.[596]

These new demands throw the old Governor into an uncontrollable rage. He rushes out to Bacon,
gesticulating wildly, and declaring that rather than sign such a paper he will have his hands
cut off.[597] In his excitement he opens his bosom, crying out, "Here, shoot me, fore God fair
mark."[598] Then he offers to measure swords with the rebel before all his men, shouting, "Let
us settle this difference singly between ourselves."[599] But Bacon ignores these ravings.
"Sir," he says, "I come not nor intend to hurt a haire of your Honors head. And for your sword,
your Honor may please to put it up, it will rust in the scabbard before ever I shall desire
you to draw it. I come for a commission against the Heathen who daily inhumanly murder us and
spill our bretherens blood."[600]

In the general distraction somebody takes the proposals to the Burgesses, now sitting in an
upper chamber of the state house. Bacon struts impatiently below, muttering threats and "new
coyned oathes".[601] At a window of the Assembly room are a number of faces, looking out on
the exciting scenes below. Bacon calls up to them, "You Burgesses, I expect your speedy result."
His soldiers shout, "We will have it, we will have it." At a command from Bacon the rebels
cock their fusils, and take aim at the crowded window. "For God's sake hold your hands," cry
the Burgesses, "forbear a little and you shall have what you please."[602] And now there is
wild excitement, confusion and hurrying to and fro. From all sides the Governor is pressed
to grant the commission in Bacon's own terms. At last he yields, and the paper is signed.

But new humiliation awaited him. The next morning Bacon entered the House of Burgesses with
an armed guard, demanding that certain persons active in obeying the Governor's orders should
be deprived of all offices, and that recent letters to the King denouncing him as a rebel should
be publicly contradicted. When Berkeley heard of these demands, he swore he would rather suffer
death than submit to them. But the Burgesses, who thought it not unlikely that they might soon
have their throats cut, advised him to grant whatever was demanded.[603] So a letter was written
to the King, and signed by the Governor, the Council and the Burgesses, expressing confidence
in Bacon's loyalty and justifying his past actions.[604] Several of Berkeley's friends were
committed to prison. Blank commissions for officers to command under Bacon in the Indian war
were presented for signature. The Governor granted all, "as long as they concerned not life
and limb", being "willing to be ridd of him". The Assembly finished its session, and thinking
to appease the rebels, sent their laws out to be read before them. But they rose up like a
swarm of bees, and swore they would have no laws.[605] Yet the legislation of this session
was exceedingly liberal. The elections had been held at a time when the people were bitterly
angry with the Governor and disgusted with the old régime. In several counties popular candidates,
men bent upon reform, had been elected over Berkeley's friends.[606] These men, aided by the
menacing attitude of the people, had initiated a series of bills designed to restrict the Governor's
power and to restore to the commons their rightful share in local government. But it was probably
the presence of Bacon with his ragged troops at Jamestown that brought about the final passage
of the bills. The Governor and the Council would hardly have given their consent, had they
not been forced to do so at the sword's point.

Indeed these laws aimed a telling blow at the aristocratic cliques that had so long controlled
all local government. It was to be illegal in the future, for any man to serve as sheriff for
two consecutive terms.[607] Surveyors, escheators, clerks of the court and sheriffs should
hold only one office at a time.[608] The self-perpetuating vestries which had long controlled
the parishes and levied church taxes, were to give place to bodies elected tri-annually by
the freemen.[609] An act was passed restricting the power of the county courts. For the future
the people were to elect representatives, equal in number with the justices, to sit with them,
and have a voice "in laying the countie assessments, and of making wholesome lawes".[610] Councillors
were no longer to be exempt from taxation. The act of 1670, restricting the right to vote for
Burgesses to freeholders was abolished, and the franchise extended to all freemen.[611] And
since "the frequent false returns" of elections had "caused great disturbances", it was enacted
that any sheriff found guilty of this crime should be fined twenty thousand pounds of tobacco.[612]

Hardly had the Assembly closed its session when the news was received that the Indians were
again on the war-path, having killed eight persons in the upper counties. This caused great
alarm in the rebel army, and Bacon found it necessary the next day to lead them back to the
frontier that they might guard their homes and families.[613]

Here active preparations were made for a new expedition against the savages. Now that Bacon
had a commission signed by the Governor and confirmed with the public seal, men were quite
eager to follow him. On all sides volunteers flocked in to offer their services against the
brutal enemy. Even Councillors and Burgesses encouraged their neighbors to enlist, declaring
that no exception could be taken to the legality of the commission.[614] Thus hundreds swallowed
"down so fair a Bait, not seeing Rebellion at the end of it".[615]

In the meanwhile, the Governor, angered at the great indignities put upon him, was planning
to regain his lost authority. A petition was drawn up in Gloucester county by Sir William's
friends, denouncing Bacon, and asking that forces be raised to suppress him.[616] Although
most of the Gloucestermen, it would seem, had no part in this request, Berkeley crossed over
the York River to their county and began to enlist volunteers.[617] But he met with little
success. Even in this part of the colony Bacon was the popular hero, and men refused to serve
against him. It seemed outrageous to many that while he was out to fight the common enemy,
the Governor should attack him in the rear. All his desperate efforts were in vain. Sick at
heart and exhausted from exertions too great for his age, he is said to have fainted away in
the saddle.[618]

The news that Berkeley was raising forces reached Bacon at the falls of James River, just as
he was going to strike out into the woods. "Immediately he causes the Drums to Beat and Trumpets
to sound for calling his men to-gether."[619]. "Gentlemen and Fellow Soldiers," he says, when
they are assembled, "the news just now brought me, may not a little startle you as well as
myselfe. But seeing it is not altogether unexpected, wee may the better beare it and provide
our remedies. The Governour is now in Gloster County endeavouring to raise forces against us,
having declared us Rebells and Traytors.... It is Revenge that hurries them on without regard
to the Peoples safety. (They) had rather wee should be Murder'd and our Ghosts sent to our
slaughter'd Countrymen by their actings, then wee live to hinder them of their Interest with
the Heathen.... Now then wee must be forced to turne our Swords to our own Defence, or expose
ourselves to their Mercyes.... Let us descend to know the reasons why such a proceedings are
used against us ... (why) those whome they have raised for their Defence, to preserve them
against the Fury of the Heathen, they should thus seek to Destroy. (Was there) ever such a
Theachery ... heard of, such Wickednesse and inhumanity? But they are damned Cowards, and you
shall see they will not dare to meet us in the field to try the Justnesse of our Cause."[620]

Whereupon the soldiers all cried, "Amen. Amen." They were ready to follow him. They would rather
die fighting than be hanged like rogues. It would be better to attack the Governor at once
than have him come upon their rear while they were engaged in the woods with the savages.[621]
And so, with universal acclaim, they gathered up their arms, and set out to give battle to
the Governor.

But Berkeley had fled. Upon finding that the militia of Gloucester and Middlesex would not
support him, he had taken ship for the Eastern Shore. Here, for the time being, he was safe
from the angry rebels. It would be difficult for Bacon to secure vessels enough to transport
his men over to Accomac; to march them hundreds of miles around the head of Chesapeake Bay
was out of the question.

The flight of the Governor left Bacon undisputed master of all the mainland of Virginia. Everywhere
he was hailed by the people as their hero and deliverer. Those that still remained loyal to
Sir William either fled with him or rendered their submission to the rebel. For a while, at
least, he could prosecute the Indian war and redress the public grievances without fear of
interruption.[622]

But now Bacon was confronted with the question of what attitude he should assume to the English
government. Berkeley had written home denouncing him as a rebel and traitor. The King assuredly
would not tolerate his conduct. No doubt preparations were already being made to send British
troops to the colony. Should he defy the King and resist his soldiers in the field of battle?

Bacon made up his mind to fight. The dense woods, the many swamps and creeks, the vast distances
of the colony would all be favorable to him. He would resort to the Indian method of fighting.
His men were as brave as the British; were better marksmen. Five hundred Virginians, he was
sure, would be a match for two thousand red coats. If England sought to bring him to his knees,
by blockading the coast and cutting off all foreign trade, he would appeal to the Dutch or
even to the French for assistance. Assuredly these nations would not neglect so favorable an
opportunity of injuring their old rival and enemy. He even cherished a wild dream of leading
his rebels back into the woods, to establish a colony upon an island in the Roanoke river.[623]

But Bacon knew that the people would hesitate to follow him into open resistance to England.
Ties of blood, of religion, of interest were too strong. All the injustice done them by the
King, all the oppression of the Navigation Acts, could not make them forget that they were
Englishmen. So he found it necessary to deceive them with a pretence of loyalty. He himself
took the oath of allegiance and supremacy, and he imposed it upon all his followers. His commands
were issued in the King's name. He even went to the absurd extremity of declaring it for the
service of the Crown to disobey the King's commands, to arrest the King's Governor, to fight
the King's troops.[624]

Realizing that resistance to his plans would come almost entirely from the upper classes, Bacon
made especial efforts to seduce the wealthy planters. On August the third, a number of influential
gentlemen assembled upon his summons at Middle Plantation, to discuss the means of protecting
the people from the Indians, and preventing civil war. After delivering a long harangue, justifying
his own actions and denouncing the Governor, Bacon requested the entire company to take three
oaths which he had prepared. First, they were to promise to assist him in prosecuting the Indian
war. Secondly, they must combat all attempts of the Governor and his friends to raise troops
against him. Thirdly, they were asked to declare it consistent with their allegiance to the
King to resist the royal troops until his Majesty could be informed by letter from Bacon of
the justice of his cause.[625] This last article caused prolonged and bitter controversy. But
Bacon locked the doors, it is said, and by persuasion and threats induced them all to sign.
The three oaths were taken by no less than sixty-nine prominent men, among them Thomas Swann,
Thomas Milner, Philip Lightfoot and Thomas Ballard.[626]

Bacon now felt himself strong enough to take active control of the administration of the government.
He did not assume, however, the title of Governor, but styled himself "General by the consent
of the people".[627] Nor did he venture to proceed in the alteration of laws or the redress
of grievances without the advice and support of the representatives of the people. In conjunction
with four members of the Council, he issued orders for an immediate election of a new Assembly,
to meet on the fourth of September, at Jamestown.[628]

Having settled these matters, Bacon turned his attention to two military expeditions--one against
the Indians, the other against the Governor. The continued activity of the savages and the
exposed condition of the frontier demanded his personal attention, but he was resolved not
to leave the lower counties exposed during his absence to attack from the Eastern Shore. Seizing
an English ship, commanded by a Captain Larrimore, which was lying in James River, he impressed
her, with all her crew, into his service against the Governor. In this vessel, with a sloop
and a bark of four guns, he embarked a force of two hundred or more men.[629] The expedition
was placed under the command of Captain William Carver, "a valiant, stout Seaman", and Gyles
Bland, both devoted to Bacon's cause and high in his favor. They were ordered to patrol the
coast to prevent raids upon the Western Shore, and, if possible, to attack and capture the
Governor.

Bacon himself hastens to Henrico, "where he bestirs himself lustily in order to a Speedy March
against the Indians". It was his intention to renew his attack upon the Occaneechees and the
Susquehannocks, but for some reason he gave up this design to turn against the Pamunkeys. Hastening
across from the James to the York, Bacon met Colonel Gyles Brent, who brought with him reinforcements
from the plantations upon the upper waters of the Rappahannock and Potomac. Their united forces
marched to the extreme frontier and plunged into the wilderness. Discovering a narrow path
running through the forest, the English followed it to a small Pamunkey village situated upon
a neck of land between two swamps. As Bacon's Indian scouts advanced upon the place they were
fired upon by the enemy. Whereupon the English came running up to assault the village. But
the Pamunkeys deserted their cabins and fled into the adjacent swamps, where the white men
found it impossible to pursue them. All made good their escape except one woman and one little
child.[630]

Continuing his march, Bacon stumbled upon an old squaw, the nurse of the Pamunkey queen, whom
he ordered to act as his guide. But the woman, unwilling to betray her people, led him far
astray, many miles from the Indian settlements. The English followed her "the remainder of
that day & almost another day" before they discovered that they were being deceived. When sure
of her treachery, "Bacon gave command to his soldiers to knock her on the head, which they
did, and left her dead on the way".[631] The army now wandered around at random in the woods,
following first one path and then another, but could not discover the enemy. The appointed
time for the new Assembly was approaching, and it was imperative for Bacon to be at Jamestown
to open the session. He was resolved, however, not to return to the colony until he had struck
a decisive blow at the Indians. Sending a message to the people "that he would be with them
with all possible speed", he resumed his discouraging quest.[632]

But the Indians still eluded him. It seemed a hopeless task to discover their villages amid
the dense woods and treacherous swamps. His men became discouraged. "Tyred, murmuring, impatient,
hunger-starv'd", many begged him to lead them back to the plantations. But Bacon would not
abandon the expedition. He would rather die in the woods, he said, than disappoint the confidence
reposed in him by the people. Those that felt it necessary to return home, he would permit
to depart unmolested. But for himself, he was resolved to continue the march even though it
became necessary to exist upon chincapins and horse flesh.[633] Whereupon the army was divided,
one part setting out for the colony, the other resuming the search for the savages.

That very day Bacon runs upon the main camp of the Pamunkeys and immediately attacks them.
The savages are encamped upon a "piece of Champion land", protected on three sides by swamps,
and covered with a dense growth of "small oke, saplings, Chinkapin-Bushes and grape vines".
As the English charge in among them they offer little resistance, but desert their habitations
and flee. Some are shot down, many are captured. Bacon takes possession of all their goods--"Indian
matts, Basketts, Match cotes, parcells of Wampameag and Roanoke, Baggs, Skins, ffurs", etc.

The poor queen fled for her life with one little boy, and wandered fourteen days in the woods,
separated from her people. "She was once coming back with designe to throw herself upon the
mercy of the English", but "happened to meet with a deade Indian woman lying in the way, ...
which struck such terror in the Queen that fearing their cruelty by that ghastly example, shee
went on ... into the wild woodes". Here she was preserved from starvation by eating part of
a terrapin, found by the little boy.[634] After this victory, Bacon secured his plunder and
his captives, and hastened back to the plantations.

In the meanwhile the expedition against Accomac had ended in disastrous failure.[635] Carver
and Bland had been given instructions to capture the Governor, and Bacon proposed, if ever
he got him in his power, to send him to England, there to stand trial for his misgovernment
and his betrayal of the people to the barbarous Indians.[636] Even though it was quite probable
that the King would send him back, the colony would for a time be rid of his troublesome presence.

Upon the arrival of the little fleet off the coast of Accomac, it was decided to send Carver
ashore under a flag of truce, to treat with the Governor.[637] Leaving Bland to guard the fleet
with a force not superior in number to the English sailors, Carver set out in the sloop "with
the most trusty of his men".[638] In the meanwhile Captain Larrimore and his sailors, who resented
their enforced service with the rebels, were plotting to betray them to the enemy. In some
way Larrimore contrived to get a message to Berkeley, requesting him to send out a party of
loyal gentlemen in boats, and promising to deliver his ship into their hands.[639] The Governor
at first was loath to venture upon such a hazardous undertaking.[640] The whole thing might
be a snare to entrap his men. Yet his situation was desperate; he must take desperate chances.

Placing a party of twenty-six men in two small boats, he sent them out under the command of
Colonel Philip Ludwell, to surprise the ship.[641] Fearing that Carver might return before
the capture could be effected, Berkeley "caressed him with wine", and detained him with prolonged
negotiations. Upon reaching the ship, Ludwell and his men rowed up close under her side, and
clambered in at "the gun room ports". "One courageous gentleman ran up to the deck, and clapt
a pistoll to Bland's breast, saying you are my prisoner."[642] The rest of the company followed
upon his heels, brandishing their pistols and swords. Captain Larrimore and his crew caught
up spikes, which they had ready at hand, and rushed to Ludwell's assistance. The rebels, taken
utterly by surprise, many no doubt without arms, "were amazed and yielded".[643]

A short while after, Carver was seen returning in the sloop from his interview with the Governor.
"They permit the boat to come soe neere as they might ffire directly downe upon her, and soe
they alsoe commanded Carver on Board & secured him. When hee saw this surprize he stormed,
tore his haire off, and curst, and exclaimed at the Cowardize of Bland that had betrayed and
lost all their designe."[644] Not long after he was tried for treason by court martial, condemned,
and hanged.[645]

Elated by this unexpected success, the Governor determined to make one more effort to regain
his lost authority. The rebels were now without a navy; they could not oppose him upon the
water, or prevent his landing upon the Western Shore. With the gentlemen that had remained
loyal to him, the troops of Accomac, many runaway servants and English sailors he was able
to raise a force of several hundred men.[646] Embarking them in Captain Larrimore's ship, in
the Adam and Eve, and sixteen or seventeen sloops, he set sail for Jamestown.[647]

In the meanwhile the appointed date for the convening of the Assembly had come. It is probable
that the members were arriving to take their seats when the news of the Governor's approach
reached the town.[648] Bacon was still absent upon the Pamunkey expedition. There seems to
have been no one present capable of inspiring the rebels with confidence, or of leading them
in a vigorous defense. When the sails of the Governor's fleet were seen, on the seventh of
September, wending their way up the river, the place was thrown into the wildest confusion.
Sir William sent a message ashore, offering a pardon to all, with the exception of Lawrence
and Drummond, that would lay down their arms and return to their allegiance.[649] But few seem
to have trusted him, "feareing to meet with some afterclaps of revenge".[650] That night, before
the place could be fully invested, the rebels fled, "every one shifting for himselfe with no
ordnary feare".[651] "Collonell Larence ... forsooke his owne howse with all his wealth and
a faire cupbord of plate entire standing, which fell into the Governour's hands the next morning."[652]

This was the unwelcome news which greeted Bacon upon his return from the Indian expedition.
So many of his soldiers had left for their homes before the final defeat of the Pamunkeys,
that he now had with him less than one hundred and fifty men.[653] Yet he resolved to march
at once upon Jamestown to attack the Governor. His little band gave him enthusiastic assurance
of loyal support. He knew that he had the well wishes and prayers of the people, while his
opponents were "loaded with their curses". Berkeley's men, although so much more numerous than
his own, he believed to be cowards that would not dare appear against him in the field. Victory
would be easy and decisive.[654]

So, after delaying a short while to gather reinforcements from New Kent and Henrico, he marched
with extraordinary swiftness down upon the enemy.[655] Everywhere along the route he was hailed
by the people as their deliverer. The sight of the sullen Indian captives that he led along
with him "as in a Shew of Triumph", caused enthusiastic rejoicing. Many brought forth fruit
and other food to refresh his weary soldiers. The women swore that if he had not men enough
to defeat the Governor, they themselves would take arms and follow him. All prayed for his
success and happiness, and exclaimed against the injustice of his enemies.[656]

Before Berkeley had been in possession of Jamestown one week, Bacon was upon him. On the evening
of September the thirteenth, the little rebel band arrived at Sandy Bay, driving before them
a party of the Governor's horse.[657] With singular bravado, Bacon himself rode up to the enemy,
fired his carbine at them, and commanded his trumpets to sound their defiance.[658] Few thought,
however, he would attempt to capture the town, for the Governor's position was very strong.
The narrow isthmus, by which alone the place could be approached, was defended by three heavy
guns planted behind strong palisades.[659] Upon the left, "almost close aborde the shore, lay
the ships, with their broadesides to thunder" upon any that dared to assault the works. The
loyal forces had recently been augmented to a thousand men, and now outnumbered the rebels
three to one. Yet Bacon seems to have meditated from the first an attack upon the place, and
was confident of success.[660]

Although his men had marched many miles that day he set them immediately to work within gun-shot
of the enemy, building an entrenched camp.[661] All night long, by the light of the moon, the
soldiers toiled, cutting bushes, felling trees and throwing up earthworks. But it soon became
apparent that their utmost efforts would not suffice to complete the trenches before dawn,
when the enemy's guns would be sure to open upon them. In this dilemma, Bacon hit upon a most
unmanly expedient to protect his men at their work. Sending out several small parties of horse,
he captured a number of ladies, the wives of some of Berkeley's most prominent supporters.

When, however, the ladies were removed, "upon a Signall given from ye Towne the Shipps fire
their Great Guns and at the same tyme they let fly their small-Shott from the Palaisadoes.
But that small Sconse that Bacon had caused to be made in the night, of Trees, Bruch, and Earth
soe defended them that the Shott did them noe damage at all, and was returned back as fast
from the little Fortresse."[663]

Fearing that this cannonade will be followed by an assault upon his works, Bacon places a lookout
on the top of a near-by brick chimney, which commands a view of the peninsula. On the sixteenth,
the watchman announces that the enemy are preparing for an assault, and the rebels make ready
to give them a warm reception. The Governor's forces, six or seven hundred strong, dash across
the Sandy Bay, in an attempt to storm Bacon's redoubts.[664] Horse and foot "come up with a
narrow front, pressing very close upon one another's shoulders". But many of them fight only
from compulsion, and have no heart for their task. At the first volleys of shot that pour in
upon them from the rebel army, they throw down their arms and flee. They marched out, as one
chronicler says, "like scholars going to school ... with heavy hearts, but returned hom with
light heels".[665] Their officers were powerless to stem the rout, until they were safe under
the protection of the palisades.[666]

The Governor's losses in dead and wounded were very small, but the moral effect of his defeat
was great. The rebels were so elated at their easy victory, and so scornful of their cowardly
opponents, "that Bacon could scarce keep them from immediately falling to storm and enter the
Towne".[667] On the other hand, the loyal troops were utterly discouraged. Many of them, that
had been "compelled or hired into the Service", and "were intent only on plunder", clamored
for the desertion of the place, fearing that the victorious rebels would soon burst in upon
them.[668]

"The next day Bacon orders 3 grate guns to be brought into the camp, two whereof he plants
upon his trench. The one he sets to worke against the Ships, the other against the entrance
into the towne, for to open a pasage to his intended storm."[669] Had the rebels delayed no
longer to make an assault it seems certain they could have carried the palisades with ease,
taken many of the enemy, and perhaps captured the Governor himself. The loyal soldiers were
thinking only of flight. "Soe great was the Cowardize and Basenesse of the generality of Sir
William Berkeley's party that of all at last there were only some 20 Gentlemen willing to stand
by him." So that the Governor, "who undoubtedly would rather have dyed on the Place than thus
deserted it, what with (the) importunate and resistless solicitations of all was at last over
persuaded, nay hurried away against his will".[670] "Takeing along with him all the towne people,
and their goods, leaveing all the grate guns naled up, and the howses emty", he left the place
a prey to the rebels.[671] "So fearful of discovery they are, that for Secrecy they imbarque
and weigh anchor in the Night and silently fall down the river."[672]

Early the next morning Bacon marched across the Sandy Bay and took possession of the deserted
town.[673] Here he learned that the Governor had not continued his flight, but had cast anchor
twenty miles below, where he was awaiting a favorable opportunity to recapture the place.[674]
At the same time, news came from the north that Colonel Brent, Bacon's former ally, was collecting
troops in the counties bordering upon the Potomac River, and would soon be on the march to
the Governor's assistance, with no less than a thousand men.[675] Should this new army, by
acting in concert with the fleet, succeed in blocking Bacon up at Jamestown, the rebels would
be caught in a fatal trap. The peninsula could hardly be defended successfully against superior
forces by land and water, and they would be crushed between the upper and nether millstones.
On the other hand, should they desert the town, in order to go out against Brent, Berkeley
would undoubtedly return to take possession of it, and all the fruits of their victory would
be lost.

After long consultation with his chief advisors, Bacon decided to destroy the town.[676] That
very night he set fire to the place, which in a few hours was reduced to ashes. Not even the
state-house, or the old church were spared. Drummond and Lawrence, it is said, showed their
unselfish zeal for the cause by applying the torch to their homes with their own hands.[677]
As the Governor, from his ships, saw in the distance the glare of the burning buildings, he
cursed the cowardice of his soldiers that had forced him to yield the place to the rebels.
But as it could now serve him no longer as a base, he weighed anchor, and set sail for Accomac.[678]

Deserting the ruined town, Bacon led his men north to Green Spring, and thence across York
River into Gloucester county. Here there came to him a messenger riding "post haste from Rapahanock,
with news that Coll: Brent was advancing fast upon him".[679] At once he summons his soldiers
around him, tells them the alarming news, and asks if they are ready to fight. The soldiers
answer "with showtes and acclamations while the drums thunder a march to meet the promised
conflict".[680]

Bacon had advanced not "above 2 or 3 days jurney, but he meets newes ... that Brents men were
all run away, and left him to shift for himselfe".[681] Like the troops that had so signally
failed of their duty in the battle of Sandy Bay, these northern forces had no desire to meet
Bacon. Many of them were undoubtedly pressed into service; many were in sympathy with the rebellion.
At all events they deserted their leaders before the hostile army came in sight, and fled back
to their homes.

Thus Bacon once more found himself master of all the mainland of Virginia. But his situation
was more critical than it had been in July and August. Many of the prominent gentlemen that
had then given him their support, and had taken his three oaths, were now fighting on the side
of the Governor. It was quite certain that royal forces were being equipped for an expedition
to Virginia, and might make their appearance within the capes before many more weeks. Moreover,
the disastrous failure of Carver and Bland had left him without a navy and exposed all the
Western Shore to attack from the loyal forces in Accomac.

Realizing his danger, Bacon felt it necessary to bind the people to him more closely. Summoning
the militia of Gloucester to meet him at their county court-house, he delivered a long harangue
before them and tendered them an oath of fidelity. They were asked to swear that if the King's
troops attempted to land by force, they would "fly to-gether as in a common calamity, and jointly
with the present Army ... stand or fall in the defense of ... the Country". And "in Case of
utmost Extremity rather then submitt to so miserable a Slavery (when none can longer defend
ourselves, our Lives and Liberty's) to acquit the Colony".[682]

The Gloucestermen were most reluctant to take this oath. A Mr. Cole, speaking for them all,
told Bacon that it was their desire to remain neutral in this unhappy civil war. But the rebel
replied that if they would not be his friends, they must be his enemies. They should not be
idle and reap the benefit of liberty earned by the blood of others. A minister, named Wading,
who was active in persuading the men to refuse the oath, was committed to prison by Bacon,
with the warning that the church was the proper place for him to preach, not the camp. Later,
it seems, fearing the consequences of further refusal, the Gloucester troops yielded and took
the binding engagement.[683]

Bacon now turned his thoughts, it is said, to an expedition against Accomac. But his preparations
were never completed. For some time he had been ill of dysentery and now was "not able to hould
out any longer".[684] He was cared for at the house of a Mr. Pate, in Gloucester county, but
his condition soon became worse.[685] His mind, probably wandering in delirium, dwelt upon
the perils of his situation. Often he would enquire if the guard around the house was strong,
or whether the King's troops had arrived. Death came before the end of October.[686] Bacon's
place of burial has never been discovered. It is supposed that Lawrence, to save the body of
his friend from mutilation by the vindictive old Governor, weighted the coffin with stones
and sunk it in the deep waters of the York.[687]

The death of Bacon proved an irreparable loss to the rebels. It was impossible for them to
find another leader of his undaunted resolution, his executive ability, his power of command.
No one could replace him in the affections of the common people. It would not be correct to
attribute the failure of the rebellion entirely to the death of this one man, yet it undoubtedly
hastened the end. Had he continued at the head of his faithful army, he might have kept the
Governor indefinitely in exile upon the Eastern Shore, or even have driven him to take refuge
upon the water. In the end Bacon would have been conquered, for he could not have held out
against the English fleet and the English troops. But he would have made a desperate and heroic
resistance.

The chief command fell to Lieutenant-General Ingram. The selection seems to have been popular
with the soldiers, for when it was announced, they "threw up their caps, crying out as loud
as they could bellow, God save our new Generall".[688] Ingram is depicted by some of the chroniclers
as a man of low birth, a dandy and a fool, but there is reason to believe their impeachment
too harsh. Although he lacked Bacon's force of character and had no executive ability, as a
general he showed considerable talent, and more than held his own against the Governor.

The mastery of the water was an advantage to Berkeley of the very greatest importance. The
numerous deep rivers running far up into the country made it easy for him to deliver swift,
telling blows at any point in the enemy's position. In order to guard the James, the York and
the Rappahannock it became necessary for the rebels to divide their forces into several small
bands. On the other hand, the entire strength of the loyalists could be concentrated at any
time for an unexpected attack.

Ingram made his chief base at West Point, where the Mattapony and the Pamunkey unite to form
the broad and stately York.[689] Here he could watch both banks of the river, and could concentrate
his men quickly either upon the Peninsula, or in Gloucester or Middlesex. At this place were
gathered several hundred rebels under Ingram himself. But it was deemed wise to leave other
detachments at various places lower down in the country, to prevent the enemy from landing,
and to suppress any rising of the people in favor of the Governor. At the house of Colonel
Bacon, in York county, a force of thirty or forty men were posted under the command of Major
Whaly.[690] "The next Parcell, considerable, was at Green Spring, the Governours howse, into
which was put about 100 men and boys." Their leader, a Colonel Drew, fortified the place strongly,
barricading all approaches, and planting three large guns "to beate of the Assailants". Another
small detachment, under Colonel Hansford, was posted "at the Howse where Coll: Reade did once
live", the site of famous old Yorktown.[691]

This last post, situated near the mouth of the river, was especially exposed to attack from
the Eastern Shore. A few days after the death of Bacon, Major Robert Beverley, with a small
force, sailed across the bay to effect its capture.[692] The rebels "kep a negligent Gard",
and were caught completely by surprise. Hansford was taken prisoner, with twenty of his men,
and brought in triumph to Accomac.

Here he was at once charged with treason, tried by court martial, and condemned to die. He
pleaded passionately to "be shot like a soldier and not to be hanged like a Dog. But it was
tould him ... that he was not condemned as he was merely a soldier, but as a Rebell, taken
in Arms."[693] To the last he refused to admit that he was guilty of treason. To the crowd
that gathered around the scaffold to witness his execution he protested "that he dyed a loyal
subject and a lover of his country".

"This business being so well accomplish'd by those who had taken Hansford, ... they had no
sooner deliver'd there Fraight at Accomack, but they hoyse up there sayles, and back againe
to Yorke River, where with a Marvellous celerity they surprise one Major Cheise-Man, and som
others, amongst whom one Capt. Wilford, who (it is saide) in the bickering lost one of his
eyes, which he seemed little concern'd at, as knowing that when he came to Accomack, that though
he had bin starke blinde, yet the Governour would take care for to afford him a guide, that
should show him the way to the Gallows."[694]

The Governor was resolved to make the rebel leaders pay dearly for the indignities they had
put upon him. Those that were so luckless as to fall into his hands, were hastened away to
their execution with but the mockery of a trial. Doubtless Berkeley felt himself justified
in this severity. To him rebellion against the King was not merely a crime, it was a hideous
sacrilege. Those guilty of such an enormity should receive no mercy. But this cannot explain
or excuse the coarse brutality and savage joy with which he sent his victims to the scaffold.
It is impossible not to feel that many of these executions were dictated, not by motives of
policy or loyalty, but by vindictiveness.

Nothing can make this more evident that the pathetic story of Madam Cheesman. "When ... the
Major was brought in to the Governor's presence, and by him demanded, what made him to ingage
in Bacon's designes? Therefore (upon her bended knees) she desires of his hour ... that shee
might be hang'd, and he pardon'd. Though the Governour did know, that that what she had saide,
was neare to the truth," he refused her request and spurned her with a vile insult. It is with
a sense of relief that we learn that her husband died in prison and was thus saved the ignominy
of the gallows.[695]

Encouraged by his successes, Berkeley now planned a more formidable invasion of the Western
Shore. Public sentiment, he hoped, was beginning to turn in his favor. The death of Bacon had
deprived the rebellion of all coherency and definiteness of purpose. The country was getting
weary of the struggle, and was anxious for the reëstablishment of law and order. In Gloucester
and Middlesex especially there were many prominent planters that awaited an opportunity to
take up arms against the rebels. And although the common people were indifferent to the Governor's
cause, they would be forced to enlist under him could he but get a firm foothold in those counties.[696]

So he sailed into York River with a fleet of four ships and several sloops, and a force of
one hundred soldiers.[697] Landing a party, under command of Major Robert Beverley, upon the
north bank, he surprised and captured a number of the enemy at the residence of a Mr. Howard.[698]
He then set up his standard at the very house in which Bacon had died, and sent out summons
to all loyal citizens to come to his support. Here there soon "appeared men enough to have
beaten all the Rebells in the countrey, onely with their Axes and Hoes".[699] They were quickly
organized into an army and placed under the command of Major Lawrence Smith.[700] Almost simultaneously
the people of Middlesex began to take up arms in support of the Governor, and for a while it
seemed that the rebels would be overwhelmed and driven back upon the frontiers.

But Ingram acted with vigor and promptness. He dispatched a body of horse, under Lientenant-General
Walkelett, to attack and disperse the Middlesex troops before their numbers become formidable.
With the main body of the rebels he himself remained at West Point, to watch the movements
of the enemy in Gloucester. When Major Smith heard of Walkelett's advance, he at once hastened
north to intercept him, leaving a garrison at Mr. Pate's house, to guard that post and maintain
intact his communication with the fleet in York River. But he was not quick enough. Before
he could complete his march, news came to him that Walkelett had dispersed the Middlesex troops
and was preparing to give battle to him.[701]

In the meanwhile, Ingram, hearing that Smith had marched north, "by the advice of his officers
strikes in betweene him and his new made Garrisson at M. Pates. He very nimbly invests the
Howse", and forces its defenders to surrender. Hardly had he accomplished this task, "but M.
L. Smith, having retracted his march out of Middlesex ... was upon the back of Ingram before
he was aware". This new move placed the rebels in no little peril, for the Gloucester forces
were between them and their base at West Point. Defeat at this juncture would have meant utter
destruction for Ingram's army.

As the two bands faced each other, "one Major Bristow (on Smith's side) made a Motion to try
the equity, and justness of the quarrill, by single combett ... proffering himselfe against
any one (being a Gent.) on the other side.... This motion was as redely accepted by Ingram,
as proffered by Bristow; Ingram swaring, the newest oath in fashion, that he would be the Man;
and so advanceth on foot, with sword and Pistell, against Bristow; but was fetched back by
his owne men", who had no desire to risk their leader in this duel.[702]

But the Gloucester troops were not inspired to deeds of courage by the intrepidity of their
champion. They had no desire to encounter the veterans that had defeated the Governor before
Jamestown and twice hunted the savages out of their hidden lairs. Despite all the efforts of
their officers they opened negotiations with Ingram and agreed to lay down their arms. No less
than six hundred men, it is said, thus tamely surrendered to the rebels. Major Smith and some
of his officers, when they found themselves betrayed by their men, fled and made good their
escape. Other "chiefe men" fell into the enemy's hands and were held as prisoners of war. Ingram
"dismist the rest to their own abodes".[703]

It was a part of the Governor's plan to secure a foothold also upon the right bank of the river
and to drive the rebels out of York county. With this in view, he sent out one hundred and
twenty men, under Captain Hubert Farrill, to surprise and capture the rebels commanded by Major
Whaly, at Colonel Bacon's house. To advise and assist Farrill, Colonel Ludwell and Colonel
Bacon himself accompanied the expedition. They decided to steal silently up to the place in
the early hours of the morning before dawn, drive in the sentries and "enter pell mell with
them into the howse". But their plans miscarried woefully. "The Centrey had no sooner made
the challenge ... who comes there? ... but the other answer with their Musquits (which seldom
speakes the language of friends) and that in so loud a maner, that it alarmed those in the
howse to a defence, and then to a posture to salley out." The attacking party took refuge "behinde
som out buildings, ... giving the Bullits leave to grope their owne way in the dark". Here
they stood their ground for a short while and then fled back to their boats. Several were taken
prisoners, but none were killed save Farrill himself, "whose commission was found droping-wett
with blood, in his pockett".[704]

The failure of these operations in the York were partly offset by successes in the southern
counties. Late in December a loyal force, consisting in part of English sailors, landed on
the right bank of the James and defeated a party of the rebels, killing their leader and taking
thirteen prisoners. Four days later, they captured one of the enemy's forts. Soon large parts
of Isle of Wight and Surry had been overrun and the people reduced to their allegiance. During
the first week of January several hundred rebels gathered upon the upper James to retrieve
their waning cause, but they seem to have melted away without accomplishing anything, and at
once all the south bank of the river submitted.[705]

Almost simultaneously in all other parts of the colony the rebellion collapsed. The defeats
of the Governor in Gloucester, Middlesex and York had not long postponed the end. The failure
of the movement was due, not to military successes by Berkeley, but to hopeless internal weakness.
Since the death of Bacon the insurgent leaders had been unable to maintain law and order in
the colony. Ingram, although he showed some ability as a general, proved utterly unfitted to
assume control of civil affairs. Bacon, when Sir William fled to Accomac, had grasped firmly
the reins of government, calling a part of the Council to his assistance, summoning a new Assembly,
and retaining sheriffs and justices in their offices. Like Cromwell, he had shown himself not
only a soldier, but a civil ruler of force and ability. But Ingram could not command the respect
and obedience of the people. Under him the machinery of government seems to have broken down.
The unhappy colony was given over to disorder and anarchy. We are inclined to wonder why Drummond
or Lawrence did not assume the chief command in the government after Bacon's death. Both were
men of intelligence and ability, both esteemed by the people, and both devoted heart and soul
to the rebellion. For some reason, neither could take the leadership, and affairs fell into
hopeless confusion.

Without a government to supply their needs, or to direct their movements, the rebel bands found
it necessary to maintain themselves by plundering the estates of the Governor's friends. Many
wealthy planters paid for their loyalty with the loss of their cattle, their sheep, their corn
and wheat, and often the very furniture of their houses. At times the rebel officers could
not restrain their rough soldiers from wanton waste and destruction. Crops were ruined, fences
thrown down, houses burned.[706] Disgusted with this anarchy, and seeing that Ingram could
not preserve order, many of the people began to long for the end of the rebellion. Even the
misgoverment of Berkeley was better than lawlessness and confusion.

Ingram himself seems to have perceived that the end was at hand. Intelligence came to him that
some of his own party, dissatisfied with his conduct, were awaiting an opportunity to deprive
him of the chief command. The long expected arrival of the English troops would bring swift
and complete ruin, for under the present conditions, he could not hope for success against
them. So he soon became quite willing "to dismount from the back of that horse which he wanted
skill, and strength to Manidge". Could he but secure a pardon from the Governor, he would gladly
desert the failing cause of the people, and return to his allegiance.[707]

Nor was Sir William less anxious to come to terms with Ingram. It had been a bitter humiliation
to him to be thrust headlong out of his government by the rebellious people. It would add to
his shame to be restored by English troops. Could he but reduce the colony before the arrival
of the red coats, his position would appear in a much better light, both in Virginia and in
England. So he sent a Captain Grantham to negotiate with Ingram and to offer him immunity and
pardon in return for prompt submission. The rebel leader willingly accepted these terms and
returned to his allegiance.[708]

More delicate was the task of inducing the troops at West Point to follow the example of their
general. It was a question whether Ingram, "or any in the countrye could command them to lay
down their arms". An attempt to betray them, or to wring the sword out their hands by violence
would probably end in failure. It was thought more prudent to subdue "these mad fellows" with
"smoothe words", rather than by "rough deeds". So Grantham presented himself to them, told
of Ingram's submission and offered them very liberal terms of surrender. They were to be paid
for the full time of their service since the granting of Bacon's commission; those that so
desired were to be retained in arms to fight the Indians; all servants among them were to secure
immediate release from their indentures. Deserted by their leader and tempted by these fair
promises, the men were at last persuaded to yield. Grantham embarked them on the fleet and
took them down to Tindall's Point, there to make their submission and "kiss the Governour's
hand".[709]

Almost at the same time overtures were made by the Governor to General Walkelett. Could this
man be induced to surrender himself and his troops, the last great obstacle to peace would
be removed. So anxious was Sir William to seduce him from the cause of the rebels, that he
offered him not only his pardon, but part of the plunder taken by Bacon from the Indians.[710]
Walkelett assented, and agreed to lead his troops to Tindall's Point, and "declare for ye King's
Majesty, the Governour & Country". He was to find there "a considerable Company of resolved
men", to assist him in case his own party offered resistance.[711] This arrangement seems to
have been carried out successfully and Walkelett's entire command was taken.[712]

The collapse of the rebellion sounded the death knell of those "chiefe Incendiaries" Drummond
and Lawrence. These men had long protested against Berkeley's arbitrary government, and had
been largely instrumental in bringing on the insurrection. Bacon had considered them his chief
advisors and friends. So deep was the Governor's hatred of them that in his recent proclamations
he had excepted them from the general pardon.[713]

When Ingram and Walkelett surrendered, these "arch rebels" were stationed on the south side
of the York River, at a place called Brick House. When they heard of Ingram's intended desertion,
they made desperate but futile efforts to prevent his designs. Failing in this, they determined
to gather around them the remnants of the rebel forces and march towards the frontier, in hopes
of kindling anew the waning spirit of resistance. "They sent downe to Coll: Bacons to fetch
of the Gard there, under ... Whaly, to reinforce their own strength." Whaly, whose position
was more exposed than their own, promptly obeyed, and succeeded in bringing off his force with
"the last remains of Coll: Bacon's Estate". The rebel leaders now mustered about three hundred
men, and with these they retreated through New Kent, "thinking (like the snow ball) to increase
by their rouleing". "But finding that in stead of increasing there number decreast; and that
the Moone of there fortune was now past the full, they broke up howse-keeping, every one shifting
for him selfe."[714]

And now the chief rebels were hunted down like wild beasts by the Governor's troops. Thomas
Hall, formerly clerk of the New Kent county court, Thomas Young, Major Henry Page, and a man
named Harris were captured and led before Sir William. They were all tried by court martial,
on shipboard off Tindall's Point, convicted of treason, and at once sent to their execution.[715]

A few days later Drummond was found, exhausted and half starved, hiding in Chickahominy swamp.[716]
When he was brought before the Governor, that resentful old man could not restrain his joy.
He is said to have "complimented him with the ironicall sarcasm of a low bend", declaring that
he was more welcome than any other man in Virginia, or even his own brother.[717] The next
day Berkeley went to Colonel Bray's house and here Drummond was conducted on foot to stand
his trial. "In his way thither he complained very much that his Irons hurt him, and ... expressed
abundance of thankes for being permitted to rest himselfe upon the Roade, while he tooke a
pipe of Tobacco."[718] But he refused the offer of a horse, saying he would come soon enough
to his death on foot.

At his trial he was treated with brutal harshness, his clothes stripped from his back and his
ring torn from his finger. Although the rebellion was now over, he was denied jury trial, and
was condemned by court martial after a hearing of but half an hour. Some months later, when
this matter came to the attention of the English Privy Council, the Lord Chancellor exclaimed
that "he knew not whether it were lawful to wish a person alive, otherwise he could wish Sir
William Berkeley so, to see what could be answered to such barbarity".[719]

Thus ended the rebellion. Apparently it had accomplished nothing for the cause of liberty or
the relief of the oppressed commons. Few of the abuses that had caused the people to take arms
had been rectified. The taxes were heavier than ever, the Governor was more severe and arbitrary.
English troops were on their way to the colony to enforce submission and obedience. Charles
II, irritated at the independent spirit of the Virginians, was meditating the curtailment of
their privileges and the suppression of their representative institutions. Yet this attack
of an outraged people upon an arbitrary and corrupt government, was not without its benefits.
It gave to future Governors a wholesome dread of the commons, and made them careful not to
drive the people again into the fury of rebellion. It created a feeling of fellowship among
the poor planters, a consciousness of like interests that tended to mould them into a compact
class, ready for concerted action in defense of their rights. It gave birth in the breasts
of many brave men to the desire to resist by all means possible the oppression of the Stuart
kings. It stirred the people to win, in their legislative halls, victories for the cause of
liberty, as real as those which Bacon and his followers had failed to secure on the field of
battle.

FOOTNOTES:

[472] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 165; P. R. O., CO1-30-71.

[473] Hen., Vol. I, pp. 323, 380.

[474] Hen., Vol. II, p. 141.

[475] T. M., p. 9; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, pp. 165, 167.

[476] T. M., p. 9; P. R. O., CO5-1371-370; CO1-36-36; CO1-36-37.

[477] T. M., p. 8; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 165.

[478] T. M., pp. 8-9; P. R. O., CO5-1371-370; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 165.

[479] P. R. O., CO1-39-10; CO1-36-78; W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 10.

[480] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 6; T. M., p. 11.

[481] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 6.

[482] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 165; P. R. O., CO1-36-78.

[483] P. R. O., CO5-1371-369; T. M., p. 9.

[484] T. M., p. 10.

[485] T. M., p. 9; P. R. O., CO392.1-173, 178; Cotton, p. 3; Inds' Pros., p. 5; P. R. O., CO5-1371-370.

[486] P. R. O., CO1-36-78; CO5-1371-369; T. M., pp. 9-10; Inds' Pros., pp. 7-8; Mass. S. IV,
Vol. IX, p. 165.

[487] P. R. O., CO5-1371-370.

[488] Inds' Pros., p. 7; P. R. O., CO-1371-370; CO1-36-66; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 176.

[489] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 7.

[490] P. R. O., CO5-1371-372; Va. Mag., Vol. III, p. 35.

[491] T. M., p. 10.

[492] P. R. O., CO5-1371-373, 411.

[493] P. R. O., CO1-30-51; CO1-36-37.

[494] T. M., p. 11; W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 7; P. R. O., CO5-1371-375.

[495] P. R. O., CO1-36-36.

[496] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p 165; Hen., Vol. II, p. 326.

[497] P. R. O., CO5-1371-373; Hen., Vol. II, pp. 327-329.

[498] Inds' Pros., pp. 8, 9.

[499] P. R. O., CO5-1371-378.

[500] P. R. O., CO5-1371-374.

[501] P. R. O., CO5-1371-378; Inds' Pros., p. 8.

[502] P. R. O., CO5-1371-379; CO1-37-17.

[503] P. R. O., CO5-1371-375.

[504] P. R. O., CO1-40-106.

[505] P. R. O., CO5-1371-375.

[506] Ibid.

[507] Ibid.

[508] Bac's Pros., p. 9.

[509] P. R. O., CO5-1371-376.

[510] Cotton, p. 4; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p, 180; P. R. O., CO1-37-1.

[511] Va. Mag., Vol. II, pp. 125-129.

[512] P. R. O., CO5-1371-375.

[513] Va. Mag., Vol. III, pp. 134-135.

[514] P. R. O., CO5-1371-376; W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, pp. 4, 7.

[515] P. R. O., CO5-1371-376.

[516] P. R. O., CO1-36-54; CO1-36-37; CO1-37-1.

[517] P. R. O., CO5-1371-376, 7; CO1-36-54: CO1-37-1; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 166.

[518] P. R. O., CO5-1371-376, 7.

[519] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 7; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 166.

[520] P. R. O., CO5-1371-377; W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 4.

[521] Hen., Vol. I, p 422; Burk, Vol. II, pp. 104-106; Force, Vol. I, Tract VIII, p. 14.

[522] Hen., Vol. I, p. 380.

[523] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, pp. 166, 180.

[524] Mass. S. IV, p. 166.

[525] P. R. O., CO5-1371-377; CO1-36-55; CO1-37-1.

[526] P. R. O., CO5-1371-377; CO1-36-66; CO1-37-14.

[527] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 167.

[528] P. R. O., CO5-1371-377.

[529] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 168.

[530] Ibid.

[531] P. R. O., CO1-37-1.

[532] P. R. O., CO1-36-64. Berkeley's proclamation, addressed to the sheriff of Rappahannock
county, dissolving the Assembly, and the proclamation denouncing Bacon as a traitor were both
issued in Henrico, on May 10, 1676.

[533] P. R. O, CO5-1371-379.

[534] P. R. O., CO5-1371-379, 411.

[535] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 1; Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 180; P. R. O., CO1-36-77; CO1-37-16.

[536] Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 180.

[537] W. & M. Q., Vol. XI, p. 121.

[538] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 167.

[539] Ibid.

[540] P. R. O., CO1-37-16; Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 182.

[541] P. R. O., CO1-36-77.

[542] Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 181.

[543] Mass. S. IV, Vol. I, p. 167.

[544] Ibid.

[545] Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 181; P. R. O., CO1-37-16; W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 2.

[546] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[547] P. R. O., CO1-36-77.

[548] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 167; P. R. O., CO1-37-16; CO1-36-77.

[549] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 167.

[550] P. R. O., CO1-36-77.

[551] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 168.

[552] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[553] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 7.

[554] P. R. O., CO1-36-77.

[555] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 7.

[556] P. R. O., CO1-36-77; CO1-36-16; T. M., p. 11.

[557] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 5.

[558] P. R. O., CO5-1371-379.

[559] Bac's Pros., p. 11; T. M., p. 12.

[560] P. R. O., CO5-1371-369; CO1-37-16, 17; Bac's Pros., p. 11; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 170.

[561] P. R. O., CO5-1371-379.

[562] Ibid.

[563] Ibid.

[564] Ibid.

[565] P. R. O., CO5-1371-380; CO1-37-16; Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 170.

[566] Ibid.

[567] Ibid.

[568] CO5-1371-380.

[569] Ibid.

[570] Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 171; Hen., Vol. II, p. 543.

[571] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 5.

[572] T. M., p. 15.

[573] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 8.

[574] T. M., pp. 12-13.

[575] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[576] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 170; P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[577] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 8.

[578] Ibid.

[579] Ibid.

[580] W. & M. Q., Vol. IX, p. 9.

[581] Va. Mag., Vol. I, p. 171.

[582] P. R. O., CO5-1371-381.

[583] P. R. O., CO5-1371-382.

[584] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 171.

[585] P. R. O., CO1-37-17.

[586] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[587] P. R. O., CO1-37-17.

[588] Ibid.

[589] Ibid.

[590] Ibid.

[591] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[592] P. R. O., CO1-37-17.

[593] P. R. O., CO1-37-16, 17; T. M., p. 16.

[594] P. R. O., CO1-37-17.

[595] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[596] Ibid.

[597] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[598] P. R. O., CO5-1371-382.

[599] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[600] P. R. O., CO5-1371-382.

[601] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[602] P. R. O., CO5-1371-382. In the various accounts left us of these scenes there is usually
agreement upon the essential points. But in details and the sequence of events there is much
discrepancy. The author has endeavored to present the facts in accordance with the greatest
weight of evidence.

[603] P. R. O., CO1-37-16, 17.

[604] P. R. O., CO5-1371-383; CO1-37-15.1.

[605] P. R. O., CO1-37-16.

[606] P. R. O., CO5-1371-379.

[607] Hen., Vol. II, p. 353.

[608] Hen., Vol. II, p. 354.

[609] Hen., Vol. II, p. 359.

[610] Hen., Vol. II, p. 357.

[611] Hen., Vol. II, p. 356.

[612] Ibid.

[613] P. R. O, CO1-37-16.

[614] CO5-1371-384, 385.

[615] P. R. O., CO5-1371-383.

[616] Mass. S. IV, Vol. IX, p. 181.

[617] P. R. O., CO5-1371-385.

[618] P. R. O., CO5-1371-387; T. M., p. 20.

[619] P. R. O., CO5-1371-385.

[620] P. R. O., CO5-1371-385.

[621] P. R. O., CO5-1371-386.

[622] P. R. O., CO5-1371-387.

[623] P. R. O., CO5-1371-232-240; CO1-39-38.

[624] P. R. O., CO1-37-41.

[625] P. R. O., CO1-37-42.

[626] Ibid.

[627] P. R. O., CO1-37-41.

[628] P. R. O., CO1-37-43.

[629] P. R. O., CO5-1371-388; Burk, Vol. II, p. 271.

[630] P. R. O., CO5-1371-390.

[631] P. R. O., CO5-1371-391.

[632] P. R. O., CO5-1371-392.

[633] P. R. O., CO5-1371-392.

[634] P. R. O., CO5-1371-393.

[635] P. R. O., CO5-1371-393.

[636] P. R. O., CO5-1371-394.

[637] Ibid.

[638] T. M., p. 22.

[639] P. R. O., CO5-1371-394; Burk, Vol. II, p. 271.

[640] Burk, Vol. II, p. 271.

[641] Ibid.

[642] T. M., p. 22.

[643] T. M., p. 22.

[644] P. R. O., CO5-1371-394.

[645] T. M., p. 23; P. R. O., CO5-1371-52, 54.

[646] The account of the King's commissioners places the number at six hundred; in Bacon's
Proceedings it is given as one thousand.

[647] P. R. O., CO5-1371-394; Bac's Pros., p. 21.

[648] Bac's Pros., p. 22.

[649] Bac's Pros., p. 22.

[650] Bac's Pros., p. 22.

[651] Bac's Pros., p. 22.

[652] Bac's Pros., p. 22.

[653] P. R. O., CO5-1371-394.

[654] P. R. O., CO5-1371-395.

[655] P. R. O., CO5-1371-395.

[656] P. R. O., CO5-1371-395.

[657] P. R. O., CO5-1371-396.

[658] P. R. O., CO5-1371-397, 400.

[659] Bac's Pros., p. 24.

[660] Bac's Pros., p. 24.

[661] P. R. O., CO5-1371-396.

[662] Cotton, p. 8; Bac's Pros., p. 24. The report of the commissioners places this incident
some days later, after the assault of the 15th. The author has followed the account given in
Bacon's Proceedings, which seems to him probably more correct. Bacon could have no object in
exposing the ladies after his trenches were completed, his heavy guns mounted and the enemy
defeated.

[663] P. R. O., CO5-1371-397.

[664] Bac's Pros., p. 25.

[665] Bac's Pros., p. 25.

[666] P. R. O., CO5-1371-398, 400.

[667] P. R. O., CO5-1371-400.

[668] Ibid.

[669] Bac's Pros., p. 25.

[670] P. R. O., CO5-1371-400.

[671] Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[672] P. R. O., CO5-1371-400.

[673] P. R. O., CO5-1371-401; Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[674] Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[675] Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[676] P. R. O., CO5-1371-401.

[677] P. R. O., CO5-1371-405.

[678] P. R. O., CO5-1371-401; CO1-39-22; Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[679] Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[680] Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[681] Bac's Pros., p. 26.

[682] P. R. O., CO5-1371-402.

[683] P. R. O., CO5-1371-401; Bac's Pros., p. 27.

[684] Bac's Pros., p. 28.

[685] P. R. O., CO5-1371-404.

[686] Bacon's Proceedings places the death of Bacon on Oct. 18; the Commissioners give the
date as Oct. 26.

[687] T. M., p. 24.

[688] Ing's Pros., p. 32.

[689] Ing's Pros., p. 39.

[690] Ing's Pros., p. 40.

[691] Ing's Pros., p. 39.

[692] The news of Hansford's capture reached Captain Morris near Nansemond Nov. 12th.

[693] Ing's Pros., p. 33.

[694] Ing's Pros., p. 35.

[695] Ing's Pros., p. 36.

[696] Ing's Pros., p. 38.

[697] Ing's Pros., p. 38.

[698] Ing's Pros., p. 38.

[699] Ing's Pros., p. 40.

[700] Ing's Pros., p. 40.

[701] Ing's Pros., p. 40.

[702] Ing's Pros., p. 42.

[703] Ing's Pros., p. 42.

[704] Ing's Pros., p. 43.

[705] P. R. O., CO5-1371-416; CO1-37-52; CO1-39-10.

[706] P. R. O., CO1-40-45.

[707] Ing's Pros., p. 45.

[708] Ing's Pros., p. 45; P. R. O., CO5-1371-416.

[709] Ing's Pros., p. 46; P. R. O., CO5-1371-416.

[710] P. R. O., CO1-39-13.

[711] P. R. O., CO5-1371-501.

[712] P. R. O., CO5-1371-416.

[713] P. R. O., CO1-39-10; Ing's Pros., p. 47.

[714] Ing's Pros., p. 48.

[715] Ing's Pros., p. 49.

[716] Drummond was captured Jan. 14, 1677.

[717] T. M., p. 23; Ing's Pros., p. 49.

[718] Ing's Pros., p. 50.

[719] Burk, Vol. II, p. 266; P. R. O., CO1-41-74, 75; CO389.6. Lawrence and Whaly made good
their escape into the forest. They probably perished, however, from exposure, or at the hands
of the Indians.

CHAPTER VII

THE PERIOD OF CONFUSION

When the news reached England that the common people of Virginia were in open revolt against
their Governor, and had driven him from his capital, the King was not a little surprised and
alarmed. The recollection of the civil war in England was still fresh enough in his memory
to make him tremble at the mutterings of rebellion, even though they came from across the Atlantic.
Moreover, since the customs from the Virginia tobacco yielded many thousand pounds annually,
he could but be concerned for the royal revenue. If the tumults in the colony resulted in an
appreciable diminution in the tobacco crop, the Exchequer would be the chief loser. Nor did
the King relish the expense of fitting out an army and a fleet for the reduction of the insurgents.

His anxiety was increased by lack of intelligence from the colonial government. Several letters
telling of Bacon's coercion of the June Assembly had reached him, but after that months passed
without word from the Governor or the Council. From private sources, however, came reports
of "uproars so stupendous" that they could hardly find belief.[720] It was rumored in England
that Sir William had been defeated, driven out of the colony, and "forced to lie at sea".[721]

Charles seems to have perceived at once that Berkeley must have been responsible for the Rebellion.
He probably cared very little whether the old Governor oppressed the people or not, so long
as he kept them quiet, but it was an inexcusable blunder for him to drive them into insurrection.
Charles himself, it is said, had resolved long before, never to resume his travels; he now
wondered why Sir William had brought upon himself this forced journey to Accomac. He decided
to institute an investigation to find out what the Governor had been doing so to infuriate
the people. A commission, consisting of Colonel Herbert Jeffreys, Sir John Berry and Colonel
Francis Moryson, was appointed to go to Virginia to enquire into and report all grievances
and pressures.[722]

Early in June, 1676, Berkeley had written the King, complaining that his age and infirmities
were such that he could no longer perform properly his office in Virginia, and requesting that
he be allowed to retire from active service.[723] The Council had protested against this resignation,
but Charles thought it best to take Sir William at his word and to recall him from the government
he had not been able to preserve in peace and quiet. In honor of his long service, and his
well known loyalty, he was, however, to retain "the title and dignity of Governor".[724] He
was ordered to return to England "with all possible speed", to report upon his administration
and to give an account of the extraordinary tumults in the colony.[725] During his absence
the duties of his office were to be entrusted to Colonel Herbert Jeffreys, who was to bear
the title of Lieutenant-Governor.[726] He was not, however, to be the deputy or assistant of
Sir William, and "to all intents and purposes" was made Governor-in-chief. Berkeley was to
be "no wayes accountable" for his actions good or bad.[727]

The King instructed Colonel Jeffreys, before attempting to subdue the rebels by force of arms,
to exhaust all peaceable means of securing their submission. In order to make this task more
easy, he drew up and had printed a proclamation of pardon, which he directed him to publish
throughout the colony. All, it declared, with the sole exception of Bacon, that should surrender
themselves, and take the oath of allegiance and supremacy, were to receive free and full forgiveness.
Charles felt that most of the colonists were at heart still loyal, and would, if their grievances
were redressed, be glad to accept his royal offer of grace.

But he did not rely entirely upon gentle measures, for, after all, the stubborn Virginians
might distrust his promises and reject the pardon. So he resolved to send to the colony a strong
body of troops to bring them to their senses, if necessary, at the point of the bayonet. A
thousand men, thoroughly equipped for active service, were put under the command of Colonel
Jeffreys and embarked for the colony.[728]

In the meanwhile, Governor Berkeley, having regained his authority, was busily engaged in reimbursing
himself and his friends for their losses in the Rebellion. There can be no doubt that many
of the loyalists had suffered severely by the depredations of the insurgents.[729] Those that
followed the Governor into exile upon the Eastern Shore, had been compelled to leave their
estates to the mercy of the enemy. And the desperate rebels, especially after death had removed
the strong arm of Bacon, had subjected many plantations to thorough and ruthless pillage. Crops
had been destroyed, cattle driven off, farm houses burned, servants liberated. Almost every
member of the Council had suffered, while Berkeley himself claimed to have lost no less than
£10,000.[730]

Thus, it was with a spirit of bitterness and hatred that the loyalists, in January and February,
returned to their ruined homes. Quite naturally, they set up a clamor for compensation from
the estates of those that had plundered them. Now that the King's authority had been restored,
and the cause they had contended for had triumphed, they demanded that the vanquished should
be made to disgorge their plunder and pay for their wanton destruction. Surely the Governor's
followers could not be expected to accept readily all these great losses as a reward for their
loyalty.

But restoration upon a large scale would almost certainly entail injustice, and would fan again
the flames of bitterness and hatred. It might be possible to restore many articles yet remaining
in the hands of the rebels, but most of the plundered goods had long since been consumed. It
was often impossible to determine what persons had been guilty of specific acts of pillage,
while many of the most active rebels were very poor men, from whom no adequate compensation
could be obtained.

There ensued an undignified and pernicious scramble by the loyalists to seize for their own
use the property of the few well-to-do insurgents. On all sides confiscation, unauthorized
seizures, and violence marked the collapse of the Rebellion. In these proceedings Sir William
took the lead. His servants went out, under pretence of searching for his stolen property,
to take for his use the sheep, the cattle, and other goods of the neighboring rebels.[731]
He showed, it was declared, "a greedy determination thoroughly to heale himselfe before hee
car'd to staunch the bleeding gashes of the woefully lacerated country.... Making and treating
men as delinquents, before any due conviction or attainder, by seizing their estates, cattle,
servants and carrying off their tobacco, marking hogsheads and calling this securing it to
the King's service."[732]

Even more unjustifiable was the conduct of Sir William in resorting to arbitrary compositions
with his prisoners to fill his exhausted purse.[733] Men were arrested, thrown into jail, terrified
with threats of hanging, and released only upon resigning to the Governor most or all of their
estates.[734] One James Barrow was locked up at Green Spring and refused permission to plead
his case before the Governor. He was told that his release could be secured only upon the payment
of a ruinous composition. "By reason," he said, "of the extremity of Cold, hunger, lothsomnesse
of Vermin, and other sad occasions, I was forct to comply."[735] Edward Loyd was held for twenty-one
days, while his plantation was invaded, and his wife so frightened that she fell into labor
and died.

It was proposed by the loyalists to share among themselves the estates of all that had been
executed for treason, had died in arms against the King, or had fled from the colony to escape
the Governor's vengeance.[736] It did not matter to them that the wretched widows and orphans
of these men would be left destitute. Nor did they stop to consider that these estates, if
forfeited at all, could not be seized legally for private use, but should revert to the Crown.
They thought only of repairing their own ruined fortunes.[737]

In the midst of this confusion and lawlessness Berry and Moryson, with a part of the fleet
and seventy of the English soldiers, arrived in the James River.[738] They had left Portsmouth
November the nineteenth, but it was January the twenty-ninth before they reached Virginia.[739]
Without waiting for Jeffreys and the main body of the fleet, they notified the Governor of
their arrival and requested an immediate conference. Berkeley came aboard their flag-ship,
the Bristol, February the first, where he was notified of their mission and intrusted with
official letters.[740] He poured into the ears of the commissioners the recital of the exciting
events of the past months--the destruction of Jamestown, Bacon's death, the surrender of Ingram
and Walkelett, the execution of the leading rebels, the return of "the poore Scattered Loyal
party to their ruined homes".[741] Although peace had been restored not three weeks before,
he pretended astonishment that the King had thought it necessary to send soldiers to his aid.

Nor could he conceal his irritation at the mission of Berry and Moryson. That Charles should
think it necessary to make an investigation of affairs in Virginia betokened a lack of confidence
in the Governor. Berkeley's friends claimed, no doubt truly, that he was the author of every
measure of importance adopted by the government of Virginia. An inquiry into conditions in
the colony could but be an inquiry into his conduct. And the Governor, perhaps, knew himself
to be guilty of much that he did not wish to have exposed before his royal master.

Moreover, Berkeley was not in the humor to brook interference at this juncture. He was inexorably
resolved that the chief rebels should be brought to the gallows and that his own followers
should be rewarded for their faithfulness. If the commissioners intended to block these measures,
or protest against his actions when in violation of law, they might expect his bitter hostility.

Before the commissioners had been in Virginia two weeks their relations with the Governor became
strained. The disposing of the "delinquents Estates", they announced, must be referred to the
King. Loyal sufferers should not secure restitution except by due process of law. Seizures
of tobacco and other goods must stop. Soon the meetings in the cabin of the Bristol became
so stormy that the commissioners decided to hold all future communication with Sir William
in writing. This they thought necessary because his "defect of hearing" not only made privacy
impossible, but looked "angrily, by loud and fierce speaking".[742]

A few days later Colonel Jeffreys arrived with the remainder of the fleet. He and his fellow
commissioners found the whole country so ruined and desolate that they experienced considerable
difficulty in securing a place of residence.[743] As the Governor disobeyed flatly the King's
commands to entertain them at Green Spring,[744] they were compelled to accept the hospitality
of Colonel Thomas Swann and make their home at his seat on the James River.[745] On the twelfth
of February, Jeffreys, Berry and Moryson went to Green Spring, where they held a long conference
with Berkeley and the Council.[746] Jeffreys produced his commission, and read the clauses
which instructed Berkeley to return immediately to England, and to resign the government into
his hands.[747]

It is easy to imagine with what anger Berkeley and his Council received this command. If Sir
William must embark for England and give up his government to this stranger, they would be
foiled in their revenge in the very moment of triumph. Jeffreys would probably put an end to
the wholesale plundering of the rebels: the illegal distribution of confiscated estates, the
seizure of goods, the unjust compositions. It was true that Sir William had written the King
in June asking his recall, but many things had happened in Virginia since he penned that letter.
He was passionately opposed to leaving his government at this juncture.

And the old man's quick wit found an excuse for remaining in Virginia. The word "conveniency"
in his orders gave him a loophole.[748] It was evident to all that the King wished him to return
without delay, but Berkeley pretended to believe that this word had been inserted in order
to permit him to use his own convenience in selecting the date of departure. The question was
put to the Council and this body gave a ready and joyous support to the Governor's interpretation.
Jeffreys and the commissioners begged them to consider that the word referred not to Sir William's
"conveniency", but to that of the King's service, yet they would not heed them.[749] So Jeffreys
went back to Swann's Point in discomfiture and the old Governor remained in Virginia for three
months more to carry to completion his plans of restitution and revenge.[750] That he should
have dared thus to trifle with his royal master's commands, which all his life he had considered
sacred, reveals to us vividly his furious temper at this juncture. The humiliation and indignities
he had experienced during the Rebellion had deprived him of all prudence.

Had Colonel Jeffreys been a man of force he would not have submitted to this juggling with
the King's commands. With a thousand British troops at his back, he could easily have arrested
Sir William and forced him to take ship for England. Although this would have been harsh treatment
for one that had so long served the King, it was fully justified by the Governor's flagrant
disobedience. And it would have relieved the colony of the presence of a man whose inhuman
cruelty had rendered him odious to the people. But Jeffreys knew that the Governor's brother,
Lord John Berkeley, was high in the King's favor, and might take revenge should he resort to
violent measures. So he contented himself with writing home his complaints, and sat quietly
by, while Berkeley carried to completion his principal designs.

The Governor was deeply displeased with the King's proclamation of pardon. Should he publish
it at once, as he was ordered to do, it would greatly hinder him in his work of revenge and
render more difficult his illegal seizures and confiscations. Since the pardon excepted only
Bacon, under its terms such notorious rebels as Robert Jones, or Whaly, or even Lawrence, might
come in out of the wilderness and demand immunity. This Berkeley was determined should not
be. He thought at first of suppressing the pardon entirely, and of setting out one of his own
based upon it, excepting the most notorious rebels.[751] The commissioners urged him to publish
the papers unchanged, as the King would undoubtedly resent any attempt to frustrate his intentions.[752]
And they insisted that there should be no delay. "Observing the generality of the people to
look very amazedly one upon another", at the arrival of the English soldiers, as though dreading
a terrible revenge by the King, they thought it highly desirable to "put them out of their
paine".[753] It was, they declared, by no means unlikely that a new rebellion would break out,
for the people were still deeply dissatisfied and "murmured extremely".

After several days of hesitation, Berkeley decided to issue the King's proclamation unchanged.
Accordingly, on the tenth of February, to the great relief of "the trembling people", the printed
copies brought over by the commissioners were made public.[754] But with them the Governor
published a proclamation of his own, which limited and modified that of his Majesty.[755] Gyles
Bland, Thomas Goodrich, Anthony Arnold, and all other rebels then in prison were to be denied
the benefit of the pardon. The King's mercy was not to extend to Lawrence and Whaly; or to
John Sturdivant, Thomas Blayton, Robert Jones, John Jennings, Robert Holden, John Phelps, Thomas
Mathews,[756] Robert Spring, Stephen Earleton and Peter Adams; or "to John West and John Turner,
who being legally condemned for rebellion made their escapes by breaking prison"; or to Sara
Grindon, "who by her lying and scandalous Reports was the first great encourager and Setter
on of the ignorant" people; or even to Colonel Thomas Swann, Colonel Thomas Bcale or Thomas
Bowler, former members of the Council.[757] The commissioners thought it highly presumptuous
in Berkeley thus to frustrate the King's wishes, and they were careful to let his Majesty know
the Governor's disobedience, but the Council of Virginia endorsed all his actions and the people
dared not disobey.

And so the trials and executions of the wretched rebels continued. As a result, no doubt, of
the protests of the commissioners, the proceedings of the court martial were closed, and the
accused were now examined before the court of oyer and terminer.[758] Gyles Bland, who for
some months had been a prisoner aboard the Adam and Eve, was now made to answer for his participation
in the Rebellion.[759] He possessed many powerful friends in England, but their influence could
not save him. It was rumored that the Duke of York had blocked all efforts in his behalf, vowing
"by God Bacon and Bland shoud dye".[760] Accordingly, on the eighth of March, he was condemned,
and seven days later was executed.[761] Other trials followed. In quick succession Robert Stoakes,
John Isles, Richard Pomfoy, John Whitson and William Scarburgh were sent to the scaffold.[762]
Some of the Governor's friends expressed fear that the rabble might attempt to rescue these
men, and "Counsell'd the not sending them to dye without a strong Guard", but the people dared
not rise in their behalf.[763]

Robert Jones was condemned, but was saved from the gallows by the intercession of Colonel Moryson.
Jones had fought with Charles I in the English civil wars, and now exhibited the wounds received
in the service of the father as a plea for pardon for his rebellion against the son. Moryson
was moved to pity at the plight of the old veteran and wrote to Madam Berkeley requesting her
to intercede for him with the Governor.[764] "If I am at all acquainted with my heart," wrote
the Lady in reply, "I should with more easinesse of mind have worne the Canvas Lynnen the Rebells
said they would make me be glad off, than have had this fatal occasion of interceding for mercy."[765]
None the less Berkeley consented to reprieve Jones, and many months later the King pardoned
him.[766]

Anthony Arnold, who had been one of the most active of the rebel leaders, boldly defended the
right of peoples to resist the oppressions of their rulers. He declared that kings "had no
rights but what they gott by Conquest and the Sword, and he that could by force of the Sword
deprive them thereof, had as good and just a Title to it as the King himselfe.... If the King
should deny to doe him right he would make noe more to sheathe his sword in his heart or Bowells
then of his own mortall Enemyes."[767] For these and other treasonable words this "horrible
resolved Rebell and Traytor" was condemned to be "hang'd in Chaines in his own County, to bee
a more remarkable Example than the rest".[768]

The Governor, even now, showed no inclination to put an end to the trials and executions. No
sooner would the courts empty the jails of prisoners than he would fill them up again. The
unhappy rebels, finding that the King's pardon gave them little protection, and that Berkeley
excepted from it whom he wished, could not know where next the axe would fall.[769] None can
say how far Sir William would have carried his revenge had not the Assembly requested him "to
hold his hand from all other Sanguinary punishment".[770] This brought him to his senses and
he consented, though with extreme reluctance, to dismiss his witnesses and juries, and put
an end to the executions. And even then "he found out a new way" to punish his victims, "ffyning
some of their Treasons and Rebellions and condemning others to banishment to England".[771]

The Governor's extreme severity and the insatiable greed of the loyal party brought the colony
to the verge of another rebellion. The people were deeply angered. Had there appeared any person
to lead them, "bould and courageous ... that durst venture his neck", the commons were ready
"to Emmire themselves as deepe in Rebellion as ever they did in Bacon's time".[772] For many
months it was feared that Lawrence, "that Stubborn desperate and resolved Rebell", would emerge
from seclusion to put himself at the head of a new swarm of mutineers.[773] Were he to appear
at this juncture, not even the presence of the English troops could prevent Bacon's veterans
from flocking to his standard. "Soe sullen and obstinate" were the people that it was feared
they would "abandon their Plantacons, putt off their Servants & dispose of their Stock and
away to other parts". Had England at this juncture become involved in a foreign war, the Virginians
would undoubtedly have sought aid from the enemies of the mother country.[774]

Nor could the people expect relief or justice from the General Assembly which met at Green
Spring, February the twentieth, 1677.[775] The elections had been held soon after the final
collapse of the Rebellion, amid the general terror inspired by the numerous executions, and
had resulted in an overwhelming victory for the loyalists. In many counties, staunch friends
of the Governor had been put in nomination, and the commons given an opportunity of showing
the sincerity of their repentance by electing them to the Assembly. William Sherwood declared
that most of the Burgesses were Berkeley's "owne Creatures & choase by his appointments before
the arrivall of the Commissioners".[776] In several places fraud as well as intimidation seems
to have been used to secure the election of loyalists. The commons of Charles City complained
that there had been illegal voting in their county and seventy of them signed a petition, demanding
a new election, which they posted upon the court house door.[777] That the Assembly was in
no sense representative of the people seems to have been recognized even in England, for some
of the King's ministers declared that it had been "called when ye Country was yet remaining
under great distractions, and uncapable of making their Elections after ye usual manner".[778]

Certain it is, that the House of Burgesses as well as the Council, was filled with ardent loyalists
and friends of the Governor. They passed several acts confirming all Berkeley's recent measures,
and inflicting further punishment upon the luckless rebels.[779] Some that had escaped the
gallows were forced to pay heavy fines, others were banished.[780] Many were compelled to make
humble submission, with ropes around their necks, upon their knees before the Governor or the
county magistrates. Large sums of money were voted to reward the most active of Berkeley's
supporters. All that had held command among the rebels, even Ingram and Walkelett, were made
forever "incapable of any office civil or military in Virginia". To speak ill of the Governor
and Council or of the justices of the peace, was declared a high crime, punishable by whipping.
If the people, to the number of six, assembled in arms, they were to be considered mutineers
and rebels. And the Burgesses showed great reluctance to reduce their own salaries, which the
people considered so excessive. The Governor feared to insist upon it, "least perhaps he might
thereby disoblige and thwart his own ends and interest in the Assembly", and only the positive
commands of the King, delivered to them by the commissioners, could induce them to make any
reduction at all.[781]

They passed resolutions praising the wisdom, the bravery, the justice and integrity of the
Governor, and exonerating him for all blame for the outbreak of the Rebellion.[782] "The distempered
humor predominant in the Common people", which had occasioned the insurrection, they declared
the result of false rumors "inspired by ill affected persons, provoking an itching desire in
them to pry into the secrets of the grand assembly".[783] They snubbed the King's commissioners,
replying to their request for assistance in discovering the common grievances that the Assembly
alone was the proper body to correct the people's wrongs.[784] Yet when the commons did come
to the Burgesses with their complaints they were repulsed with harsh reproofs and even severe
punishment. Certain grievances from Isle of Wight county were denounced as "libellous, Scandalous
and rebellious" and "the chiefe persons in the Subscriptions" were to be punished "to the merits
of their Crymes".[785] A petition from Gloucester county was declared to savor so strongly
of the "old leaven of rebellion" that it must be expunged from the records. When the people
of Nansemond appealed for a more just method of taxation, they were answered briefly, "It is
conceived the pole is the equallest way."[786]

One is inclined to wonder why the people, thus finding the Assembly but an instrument of oppression
in the Governor's hands, did not turn eagerly for support and relief to the King's commissioners.
These men had invited them to bring in all their pressures, without restraint or fear of punishment.
His Majesty, they announced, was anxious to know what had caused them to rise against his authority.
All just complaints would be carefully considered and all grievances redressed.[787] But dread
of Sir William's anger held the people back. Their chief grievance was the old Governor himself,
but there were few that dared say so, even with the promise of the King's protection. The commissioners
wrote Secretary Coventry that until "the awe of his stay" was removed, they could "never thoroughly
search and penetrate into the bottome of the Businesse".[788] Berkeley, they said, continually
impeded their investigations and prevented the people from testifying. It might be necessary
for Colonel Jeffreys to send him home, before the mists he cast before them could be dispelled.[789]
When he was gone, a short time would show boldly those things that as yet only cautiously peeped
forth.[790]

The violent opposition which the commissioners encountered from the Governor and the loyalists
soon forced them to become the leaders of the defeated party. The poor people looked forward
with hope to the day when Sir William would leave and Colonel Jeffreys assume control of the
executive. Then, they were sure, the persecutions would end and justice be done them.

The hatred and contempt of the Governor's friends for Colonel Jeffreys and his colleagues is
shown by an interesting and unique incident. Having heard that Sir William was at last preparing
to sail for England, they went to Green Spring, on the twenty-second of April, to bid him farewell.[791]
This they thought due his dignity and rank, even though their relations with him had been far
from cordial.[792] As they left the house, after paying their respects to the Governor and
his lady, they found Sir William's coach waiting at the door to convey them to their landing.[793]
But before they rode away a strange man came forward, boldly putting aside the "Postillion
that used to Ryde" and got up himself in his place. The Governor, several Councillors, and
others saw what occurred, but did not offer to interfere. Lady Berkeley went "into her Chamber,
and peep'd through a broken quarrell of the Glass, to observe how the Show look'd".[794] After
reaching their boat, the commissioners found to their horror that the strange postilion was
none other than the "Common Hangman that ... put the Halters about the Prisoner's Necks in
Court when they were to make their submission". This seemed to them so gross an insult, not
only to the "Great Seal", but to their "persons as Gentlemen", that they were resolved to make
his Majesty himself acquainted with it.[795] "The whole country rings of ... the public Odium
and disgrace cast upon us," they said, "as the Exchange itselfe shortly may."[796]

It is probable that Lady Berkeley alone was responsible for this incident, which, as the commissioners
themselves said, looked "more like a woman's than a man's malice".[797] The Governor denied
with passionate vehemence that he was in any way guilty. "I have sent the Negro[798] to be
Rebuked, Tortur'd or whipt, till he confesse how this dire misfortune happen'd," he wrote the
commissioners, "but I am soe distracted that I scarce know what I doe."[799]

Even before Berkeley left the colony Colonel Jeffreys issued a proclamation, formally taking
possession of the government.[800] For some time it had been apparent that the Lieutenant-Governor's
long delay in entering upon his duties was greatly weakening him in the estimation of the people.
Since he had been forced to sit idly by for several months while Sir William carried to completion
matters of the utmost importance, and had not dared to take his office so long as it pleased
the old man to linger in the colony, many thought, quite naturally, that he could not have
been entrusted with full authority to act as Governor. And this opinion had been industriously
furthered by the loyal party. The departure of Sir William, they declared, did not mean a permanent
change of administration. Jeffreys was to act only as his deputy during his absence and would
retire upon his return.[801] Feeling that these views, if universally accepted, would undermine
his influence and authority, Jeffreys entered a vigorous denial in his proclamation. He had
been appointed, he declared, to exercise the power of Governor, as fully as Berkeley or any
of his predecessors had done. No man should dare to belittle his office or authority. Berkeley
was going home at his own request because his great age and infirmities rendered him unfit
to sustain further the burdens of his position. The new executive had refrained from assuming
his duties earlier, "because an Assembly being ... ready to convene, the issueing forth a new
Summons ... must needs have greatly retarded the publique Weale".[802] Nor did he scruple to
claim the full title of "Governour and Captain Generall of Virginia".

This proclamation aroused Berkeley's deepest ire. "Your ejecting me," he wrote Jeffreys, "from
having any share in the Government whilst yet I am in the Countrey ... I beleeve can neither
be justified by your Comision nor mine." "You say that his Majesty out of the knowledge of
my inability to govern did surrogate so able a man as Coll: Jeffreys to supply my defects.
I wish from my heart Coll: Jeffreys were as well known to the King and Counsel as Sir William
Berkeley is, for then the difference would be quickly decided." The letter was addressed to
the "Right honorable Coll: Herbert Jeffreys, his Majesty's Lieutenant Governor of Virginia",
and was signed "William Berkeley, Governor of Virginia till his most Sacred Majesty shall please
to determine otherwise".[803]

In the meanwhile the letters of the commissioners, reporting Berkeley's disobedience to the
King's commands, had arrived in England. Charles was angered, not only at his delay in surrendering
the government, but also at his presumption in disregarding the royal proclamation of pardon.
"You may well think," he wrote Berkeley, "we are not a little surprised to understand that
you make difficulty to yield obedience to our commands, being so clear and plain that we thought
no man could have raised any dispute about them. Therefore ... we do ... command you forthwith
... without further delay or excuse (to) repair unto our Presence as We formerly required you."[804]

Secretary Coventry wrote even more severely. We understand, he said, that to the King's clear
and positive orders for you to resign the government to Colonel Jeffreys, "upon certain pretences
which are no wayes understood here, you have delayed at least if not refused obedience....
His Majesty ... seemeth not a little surprised as well as troubled to find a person that had
for so many years served his Royal Father and himself through ye worst of times with so unshaken
a loyalty, and so absolute obedience and resignation, should now at one time fall into two
such great errors as to affront his Proclamation by putting out one of his owne at ye same
time with his, and in that to exempt several persons from pardon, which were by the King's
owne Proclamation made capable of Pardon; then after positive orders given for your immediate
return ... you yet stay there ... and continually dispute with his Majesty's commissioners.
I will assure you, Sir, his Majesty is very sensible of these miscarriages, and hath very little
hopes that ye people of Virginia shall be brought to a right sense of their duty to obey their
Governours when the Governours themselves will not obey the King. I pray you, Sir, ... take
not councell from your owne nor any other body's passion or resentment, to take upon you to
judge either conveniency or not conveniency of the King's orders, but obey them, and come over;
and whatever you have to say ... you will be heard at large."[805]

Even before these letters were written Sir William had left the colony. He had embarked for
England, May the fifth, in Captain Larrimore's sturdy ship which had stood him in such good
stead in the hour of need.[806] But the old man, worn out by his violent passions and unusual
exertions, was physically unfit for the long voyage across the Atlantic. He became very ill
on shipboard, and reached England a dying man. "He came here alive," wrote Secretary Coventry,
"but so unlike to live that it had been very inhumane to have troubled him with any interrogacons."[807]
The news of the King's displeasure at his conduct added much to his suffering. He pleaded for
an opportunity "to clear his Innocency" even though the "tedious passage & griefe of mind"
had reduced him "to extreame weaknesse".[808] That Charles did not refuse him this privilege
is attested by a letter written to Berkeley by Secretary Coventry. "I am commanded by his Majesty,"
he said, "to let you know that his Majesty would speake with you as soone as you can, because
there are some ships now going to Virginia, and his Majesty would see what further Instructions
may be necessary to be sent by them."[809] But Berkeley could not attend the King, either to
give information or to plead his own cause. His condition rapidly became critical, and a few
days later he died.[810]

Hardly had Sir William breathed his last than Thomas Lord Culpeper "kissed the King's hand
as Governour".[811] This nobleman had received a commission, July 8, 1675, which was to take
effect immediately upon the death, surrender or forfeiture of the office by Berkeley.[812]
It had never been Charles' intention that Colonel Jeffreys should remain permanently at the
head of the government of Virginia, and he now notified him to prepare to surrender his office
to the new Governor.[813] The King, who felt that the unsettled condition of Virginia required
Culpeper's immediate presence, ordered him to depart "with all speed", and told the colonists
they might expect him by Christmas "without fayle".[814] But this pampered lord, accustomed
to the luxury of the court, had no desire to be exiled in the wilderness of the New World.
By various excuses he succeeded in postponing his departure for over two years, and it was
not until the spring of 1680 that he landed in Virginia.[815] Thus, for a while, Colonel Jeffreys
was left as the chief executive of the colony.

In the meanwhile the commissioners, freed from the baleful presence of the old Governor, were
continuing their investigation into the causes of the Rebellion. Berkeley had advised them,
when they first announced their mission, to carry out their work through the county courts.[816]
But they had refused to accept this plan. The justices were almost all henchmen of Sir William,
many were hated by the people and some were the objects of their chief accusations. Had the
investigation been intrusted to their hands, they would most certainly have suppressed the
principal complaints.[817] The commissioners, therefore, appointed especial officers in the
counties to hear the people's grievances, draw them up in writing and bring them in for presentation
to the King.[818] Even then the loyal party attempted, by intimidation, to prevent the commons
from explaining without reserve what had caused them to take up arms against the government.
Sir William, they were careful to report, would most certainly return, and any that dared charge
him or his friends with corruption might expect the severest punishment.[819] But the announcement
by the commissioners that his Majesty himself had promised his protection to all informants
relieved the fears of the people and many came forward with the story of their wrongs.[820]
These seem to have been faithfully drawn up by the officers and in time presented to the King.

The loyal party complained loudly that the commissioners used in this matter none but the enemies
of the Governor.[821] Lord John Berkeley declared that they had sought information from such
only as were known "to be notorious actors in the rebellion".[822] But the commissioners were
undoubtedly right in insisting that all grievances should come from those that had been aggrieved.
They themselves, they declared, were not responsible for the truth of the charges; their function
was only to receive and report them. The King had sent them to Virginia to make the royal ear
accessible to the humblest citizen. This could be done only by brushing aside the usual channels
of information and going directly to the commons themselves. That some of the accusations were
exaggerated or even entirely false seems not improbable; many were undoubtedly true. Posterity
must accept them, not as the relation of established truth, but as the charges of a defeated
and exasperated party.

In their work of investigation the commissioners found that they had need of the records of
the House of Burgesses. In April, 1677, after the adjournment of the session at Green Spring,
they came to Major Robert Beverley, the clerk of the Assembly, and demanded "all the Originall
Journals, Orders, Acts", etc., then in his custody.[823] Beverley required them to show their
authority, and this they did, by giving him a sight of that part of their commission which
concerned his delivery of the records.[824] He then offered to allow them to examine any of
the papers necessary to the investigation, but he refused absolutely to relinquish their custody.[825]
The commissioners, who distrusted Beverley and perhaps feared that he might conceal the records,
"took them from him by violence".[826]

When the Assembly met in October, 1677, the House of Burgesses sent a vigorous protest to Colonel
Jeffreys against these proceedings of the commissioners. Their action, they declared, "we take
to be a great violation of our privileges". The power to command the records which the commissioners
claim to have received from the King, "this House humbly suppose His Majesty would not grant
or Comand, for that they find not the same to have been practiced by any of the Kings of England
in the likewise.... The House do humbly pray your Honour ... will please to give the House
such satisfaction, that they may be assured no such violation of their privileges shall be
offered for the future."[827]

When Charles II heard of this bold protest he was surprised and angered. It seemed to him a
"great presumption of ye said Assembly ... to call in Question" his authority.[828] Referring
their representation to the Lords of Trade and Plantations, he directed them "to examine ye
same, & to Report" what they thought "fitt to be done in Vindication of ... (the) Royall Authority,
& for bringing the said Assembly to a due sence & acknowledgement of their Duty & Submission".[829]
The Lords gave it as their opinion that the declaration was so "Seditious, even tending to
Rebellion", that the new Governor should be directed to rebuke the Assembly and punish the
"authors and abettors of this presumption".[830] The King commanded Lord Culpeper to carry
these recommendations into effect. On the third of July, 1680, Culpeper brought the matter
before the Virginia Council, preparatory to delivering the rebuke. But the Councillors made
a vigorous defense of the action of the Assembly, and unanimously advised the Governor to suspend
the execution of the King's command.[831] After some hesitation, Culpeper yielded, and the
matter was referred back to the Privy Council. Charles was finally induced to rescind the order,
but he insisted that all reference to the declaration "be taken off the file and razed out
of the books of Virginia".[832]

The work of the commission being completed, Berry and Moryson, in July, 1677, sailed with the
royal squadron for England.[833] Their report, which was so damaging to the Virginia loyalists,
was not allowed to go unchallenged. Sir William Berkeley, upon his death bed, had told his
brother, Lord John Berkeley, of the hostility of the commissioners, and charged him to defend
his conduct and character. And Lord Berkeley, who was a member of the Privy Council and a man
of great influence, did his best to refute their evidence and to discredit them before the
King.[834] Their entire report, he declared, was "a scandalous lible and invective of Sir William
... and the royal party in Virginia".[835] His brother's conduct had been always prudent and
just, and it was noticeable that not one private grievance had ever been brought against him
before this rebellion.[836] The meetings of Lord Berkeley with the commissioners in the Council
chamber were sometimes stormy. On one occasion he told Berry, "with an angry voice and a Berklean
look, ... that he and Morryson had murdered his brother". "Sir John as sharply returned again"
that they had done nothing but what they "durst justify".[837]

As the other members of the Privy Council protected the commissioners, and upheld their report,
the attacks of the angry nobleman availed nothing. Secretary Coventry averred that Berry and
Moryson had been most faithful in carrying out the King's directions, and he showed his confidence
in their honesty and their judgment by consulting them upon all important matters relating
to the colony.[838] And for a while, their influence in shaping the policy of the Privy Council
in regard to Virginia was almost unlimited.

Nor did they scruple to use this great power to avenge themselves upon those men that had so
antagonized them and hindered their investigation. Robert Beverley they represented to the
Privy Council as a man of low education and mean parts, bred a vulgar seaman and utterly unfit
for high office.[839] Colonel Edward Hill was the most hated man in Charles City county.[840]
Ballard, Bray and some of the other Councillors were rash and fiery, active in opposing the
King's orders and unjust to the poor people.[841] The Privy Council was so greatly influenced
by these representations that they determined to reconstruct the Virginia Council, upon lines
suggested by Berry and Moryson. Colonel Philip Ludwell, Colonel Ballard and Colonel Bray were
expressly excluded from the Council, while Colonel Hill and Major Beverley as "men of evil
fame and behavior" were deprived of all governmental employment whatsoever, and "declared unfit
to serve His Majesty".[842] On the other hand, Colonel Thomas Swann, who had been excluded
from the Council by Governor Berkeley, was now, for his kindness to the commissioners, restored
to his seat.[843]

The departure of Sir William Berkeley by no means ended the opposition to Colonel Jeffreys.
A part of the Council, realizing that continued hostility could result only in harm to themselves,
made their peace with the new administration, and were received into favor, but the more violent
of the loyal party remained defiant and abusive. Philip Ludwell, Beverley, Hill, Ballard and
others openly denounced Jeffreys as a weakling, entirely unsuited for the important office
he now occupied, and did their best to render him unpopular with the people.[844] The Lieutenant-Governor
retaliated with considerable spirit, depriving some of their lucrative offices, and suspending
others from the Council. Ludwell, whose conduct had been especially obnoxious, was ousted from
the collectorship of York River.[845] Ballard was expelled from a similar office.[846] And
many months before the changes in the Council ordered by the English government became known
in Virginia, no less than six of the most active loyalists had been suspended by the Lieutenant-Governor.[847]

But events soon took a more favorable turn for the Berkeley party. The departure of Berry and
Moryson deprived Jeffreys of his staunchest friends and advisors. And, before the end of the
summer, he was prostrated by the Virginia sickness, which was still deadly to those unaccustomed
to the climate of the colony. For several months he was too ill to attend properly to his duties
or to resist the machinations of his enemies, and the government fell into the hands of the
Council.[848] And since this body, despite its pretended support of the Lieutenant-Governor,
was at heart in full sympathy with Beverley and Ludwell and the other loyalists, the policy
of the administration was once more changed. The work of extortion was actively resumed and
the courts again busied themselves with suits against the former rebels.[849]

But consternation seized the Green Spring faction, as the loyalists were now called, upon the
arrival of the King's order, annulling Berkeley's proclamation of February 10, 1677, and reaffirming
the general pardon.[850] If this command were put into effect, most of the confiscations secured
since the Rebellion, would become illegal, and restitution would have to be made. So desperately
opposed to this were the loyalists that they resolved to suppress the King's letter. They believed
that it had been obtained by the influence of the commissioners, and this, they hoped, would
soon be rendered nugatory by the presence at court of Sir William Berkeley. If they could keep
the order secret for a few weeks, new instructions, dictated by the Governor, might arrive
to render its execution unnecessary. Colonel Jeffreys protested against their disobedience,
but he was too weak to oppose the will of the Council.[851] So, for six weeks, his Majesty's
grace "was unknown to ye poore Inhabitants", while the innumerable suits and prosecutions were
pushed vigorously. Not until October the twenty-sixth, when all hope of its revocation had
been dispelled by fresh information from England, did the Council consent to the publication
of the letter.[852]

In September, 1677, writs were issued for an election of Burgesses.[853] Had Jeffreys not been
ill, he would perhaps have refused to allow a new session of the Assembly. The contest at the
polls could but result in a victory for the Green Spring faction, as the electoral machinery
was in their hands. The Lieutenant-Governor, although he had removed some of the higher colonial
officials, had made few changes in the personnel of the county courts.[854] The sheriffs, by
resorting to the old methods, made sure of the election of most of the nominees of the loyal
party. Complaints came from James City county, New Kent county and other places that intimidation
and fraud had been used to deprive the people of a fair election.[855] If we may believe the
testimony of William Sherwood, the Berkeley faction carried things with a high hand. "The Inhabitants
of James City County," he wrote, "did unanimously elect me a Burgess ... but several of my
professed enemies ... procured another writt for a new election, with a positive command not
to choose me. The people then being under amazement consented to whome soever the Sheriffe
would returne, & so my enemies to make their party the stronger in ye house ... causd three
Burgesses to serve for James City County."[856]

"By this means," wrote Colonel Daniel Parke, "and by persuading the burgesses that Sir William
Berkeley was coming in Governour again, (the loyal party) got all confirmed that was done at
the Assembly before held at Greene Spring."[857] In order to compensate themselves for their
great losses and to fulfil the promises made by Berkeley to his followers during the Rebellion,
they levied a tax upon the people of one hundred and ten pounds of tobacco per poll. "This
with the county tax and parish tax," said Parke, "is in some counties 250lbs, in some 300,
and in some 400lbs, which falls very heavie upon the poorer people." The county grievances
were again rejected by the Burgesses as false and scandalous, and the persons presenting them
were severely punished.[858] But the Assembly expressed an earnest desire to bring about a
reconciliation between the hostile factions in the colony, and prescribed a heavy penalty for
the use of such opprobrious epithets as "traytor, Rebell Rougue, Rebell", etc.[859]

The news of Berkeley's death was a severe blow to the Green Spring party. All the hope they
had entertained that he would accomplish the overthrow of the work of the commissioners, at
once fell to the ground. But they were somewhat consoled by the appointment of Lord Culpeper.
This nobleman was related to Lady Berkeley, and they had good reason to believe he would reverse
the policy of the present administration and ally himself with the loyalists.[860]

In the meanwhile the Lieutenant-Governor was regaining his health and spirits, and was taking
a more active part in public affairs. He had been deeply angered with Colonel Philip Ludwell
for his many insults, and he now determined to prosecute him "for scandalizing the Governor,
and abusing the Authority of his Majesty".[861] Ludwell's unpardonable crime, it would seem,
consisted in calling Jeffreys "a pitiful little Fellow with a perriwig".[862] He had also been
heard to say that the Lieutenant-Governor was "a worse Rebel than Bacon", that he had broken
the laws of Virginia, that he had perjured himself, that he "was not worth a Groat in England".
Nor was it considered a sufficient excuse that Ludwell had made those remarks immediately after
consuming "part of a Flaggon of Syder".[863] The jury found him guilty of "scandalizing the
Governor", but acquitted him of any intention of abusing his Majesty's authority. The General
Court, upon the motion of Colonel Jeffreys, referred the case to the King and Privy Council,
that they might "advise a punishment proportionable to the offence".[864] Against this decision
the defendant, as he had an undoubted right to do, appealed to the General Assembly. Ludwell
felt, no doubt, that should the appeal be allowed, his great influence in the House of Burgesses
would secure him a light sentence. But the court declared the case so unprecedented that the
whole matter, including the question of appeal, must be decided by the King.

With the return of hot weather, Colonel Jeffreys, not yet being acclimated, or "seasoned",
as the Virginians expressed it, again became seriously ill.[865] The Council elected a president
to act in his place and once more assumed control of the administration.[866] The Green Spring
faction, whom only the Lieutenant-Governor could restrain, again lifted its head and endeavored
"to continue their old exactions & abuses".[867] Feeling, perhaps, a sense of security in their
remoteness from the King, which made it impossible for him to watch their actions closely,
or to mete out to them prompt punishment, they still disregarded his pardon and his reiterated
commands.[868] "The colony would be as peaceful as could be wished," wrote William Sherwood
in August, 1678, "except for the malice of some discontented persons of the late Governor's
party, who endeavour by all ye cunning contrivances that by their artifice can be brought about,
to bring a Contempt of Colonel Jeffreys, our present good Governor.... Those persons who are
the troublers of the peace ... are ... Lady Berkeley, Colonel Philip Ludwell, Colonel Thomas
Ballard, Colonel Edward Hill, Major Robert Beverley, all of which are cherished by Mr. Secretary
Ludwell (who acts severely.) It is to be feared, unless these fiery Spiritts are allayed or
removed home, there will not be that settled, happy peace and unity which otherwise might be,
for they are entered into a faction, which is upheld by the expectation of my Lord Culpeper's
doing mighty things for them & their interest."[869]

Colonel Jeffreys died in November, 1678.[870] It was the fortune of this Governor to come to
the colony in one of the greatest crises of its history. Had he been a man of ability and firmness
he could have rendered the people services of great value. He might have put an end to the
reign of terror inaugurated by Berkeley, prevented the unending law suits, confiscations and
compositions, reorganized the county courts and assured to the people a fair election of Burgesses.
He seems to have wished to rule justly and well, but he was too weak to quell the strife between
the rival factions and bring quiet to the distracted colony.

So bitter was the loyal party against Colonel Jeffreys, that after his death they sought to
revenge themselves upon his widow. The Lieutenant-Governor had received no part of his salary
from March, 1678, to the day of his death, and had, as a result, incurred considerable debt.
As Mrs. Jeffreys was unable to meet all her husband's obligations, she was detained in Virginia,
and, according to one account, thrown into prison.[871] "'Tis plain," she wrote Secretary Coventry,
"they seek my Life in malice to my husband, though none of them can tax him with any injustice....
I cannot hope to outlive this persecution, but I most humbly beseech you to intercede for me
to his Majesty, that my child may not be ruined."[872] Mrs. Jeffreys later received the arrears
due her husband, and was thus enabled to free herself from the power of her enemies.[873]

Upon the death of Colonel Jeffreys, Sir Henry Chicheley, by virtue of a commission granted
in 1674, assumed control of the government.[874] The new Governor had long served with distinction
in the Council, and seems to have been a "most loyal, worthy person and deservedly beloved
by the whole country".[875] But he was now too "old, sickly and crazy" to govern the colony
with the vigor and firmness that were so greatly needed.[876] During the eighteen months of
his administration the people were "not reconciled to one another", and "ill blood" only too
often was manifested by both factions.[877]

Sir Henry had himself been a severe sufferer by the Rebellion. He had fallen into Bacon's hands
and had even, it would seem, been threatened with death, in retaliation for Berkeley's execution
of Captain Carver. Yet he attempted to rule impartially and well. Writs were issued in the
spring of 1679 for an election of Burgesses, and the people were protected from intimidation
at the polls. The Assembly, as a result, showed itself more sane, more sensitive to the wishes
of the commons, than had been either of the sessions of 1677.[878] Several laws were enacted
redressing some of the most flagrant evils of the old governmental system of Berkeley. The
voters of each parish were empowered to elect two men "to sitt in the severall county courts
and have their equall votes with the severall justices for the makeing of by lawes".[879] An
act was passed putting a limit upon the excessive fees charged by the collectors of the customs.[880]
And the clamor of the loyalists for the payment of their claims upon the treasury were unheeded,
and all public debts were referred for settlement to the next session.[881]

Chicheley's administration came temporarily to an end with the arrival of Lord Culpeper. The
period from the close of the Rebellion to May, 1680, when the new Governor-General took the
oath of office, seems, at first sight, characterized only by confusion and disaster. The violent
animosities, the uncertainty of property rights, the lack of a firm and settled government
kept the people in constant uneasiness and discontent. The numerous banishments and executions
had deprived the colony of some of its most intelligent and useful citizens, while the plundering
of both parties during the Rebellion, and the numberless forfeitures that followed the establishment
of peace, had reduced many men to poverty. Nor had the most pressing of the grievances that
had caused the people to rise against the government been redressed. The Navigation Acts were
still in force, the commons were yet excluded from their rightful share in the government,
the taxes were more oppressive than ever.

Yet amid the melancholy confusion of the times, important changes for the better were taking
place. Never again was an English Governor to exercise the despotic power that had been Sir
William Berkeley's. This was not due to the greater leniency of the British government, or
to lack of ambition in the later Governors. But the Rebellion and the events following it,
had weakened the loyalty of the people and shown them the possibility of resisting the King's
commands. The commons, angered at the severity of the punishment inflicted upon the rebel leaders,
and disappointed in the royal promise that their grievances should be redressed, regarded the
government with sullen hostility. The wealthy planters resented what they considered Charles'
ingratitude for their loyal support in the hour of need, and complained bitterly of his interference
with their attempts to restore their ruined fortunes. Throughout Berkeley's administration
their interests had seemed to be identical with those of the Governor, and they had ever worked
in harmony with him. With the advent of Colonel Jeffreys, however, they had been thrown into
violent opposition to the executive. Their success in thwarting the policies of the Lieutenant-Governor,
and in evading and disobeying the King's commands gave them a keen appreciation of their own
influence and power. They were to become more and more impatient of the control of the Governors,
more and more prone to defy the commands of the English government.

The awakened spirit of resistance bore rich fruit for the cause of liberty. The chief difficulty
heretofore experienced by the commons in defending their rights was the lack of intelligent
and forceful leaders. These they now secured through the frequent quarrels of the wealthy planters
with the Governors. More than once Councillors, suspended from their seats for disobedience,
came forward as leaders in the struggle to preserve the rights of the people. In this capacity
they rendered services of the highest importance. Strangely enough some of the leading spirits
of the old Berkeley party became, by their continued opposition to the executive, champions
of representative government in the colony. Had it not been for the active leadership of Robert
Beverley and Philip Ludwell the cause of liberty might well have perished under the assaults
of Charles II and James II.

The House of Burgesses was gradually becoming more representative of the people. The intimidation
of voters practiced by the loyal party immediately after the Rebellion could not be continued
indefinitely. As the terror inspired by Berkeley's revenge upon the rebels began to wane, the
commons insisted more upon following their own inclinations at the polls. Moreover, the incessant
quarrels of the Governors with the members of the aristocracy made it impossible for any clique
to control again the electoral machinery. As the sheriffs and justices were no longer so closely
allied with the executive as they had been in the Restoration period, false returns of Burgesses
and other electoral frauds were apt to be of less frequent occurrence.

Thus, during the years immediately following the Rebellion, forces were shaping themselves
which were to make it possible for the colony to resist those encroachments of the Crown upon
its liberties that marked the last decade of the rule of the Stuart kings, and to pass safely
through what may well be called the Critical Period of Virginia history.

FOOTNOTES:

[720] P. R. O., CO389.6-177.

[721] Ibid.

[722] The commission had consisted at first of Sir John Berry, Colonel Francis Moryson and
Thomas Fairfax. P. R. O., CO1-37-53.

[723] P. R. O., CO389.6-113, 174.

[724] P. R. O., CO389.6-113.

[725] P. R. O., CO389.6-121, 174, 175.

[726] P. R. O., CO389.6-113.

[727] P. R. O., CO389.6-137, 139, 140, 144; CO1-38-7.

[728] P. R. O., CO389.6-116.

[729] P. R. O., CO5-1371-149, 154.

[730] P. R. O., CO1-40-110; CO5-1371-27, 33, 62, 63, 64.

[731] P. R. O., CO1-39-11, 17; CO5-1371-68, 69, 62, 63, 64, 78, 79, 81, 82, 132.

[732] P. R. O., CO5-1371-152.

[733] P. R. O., CO5-1371-132.

[734] CO1-40-1 to 37; CO1-40-43; CO5-1371-81, 82.

[735] P. R. O., CO1-40-23.

[736] P. R. O., CO5-1371-27, 33.

[737] P. R. O., CO1-39-38.

[738] P. R. O., CO5-1371-17, 20.

[739] Ibid.

[740] P. R. O., CO5-1371-27, 33.

[741] Ibid.

[742] P. R. O., CO5-1371-55, 60.

[743] P. R. O., CO5-1371-90, 94.

[744] P. R. O., CO391.2-173, 178.

[745] P. R. O., CO5-1371-90, 94.

[746] P. R. O., CO5-1371-83, 85, 90, 94.

[747] P. R. O., CO289.6-121.

[748] P. R. O., CO5-1371-50, 83.

[749] P. R. O., CO5-1371-93, 94.

[750] P. R. O., CO1-40-88.

[751] P. R. O., CO1-39-24.

[752] P. R. O., CO5-1371-32.

[753] P. R. O., CO5-1371-55, 60.

[754] P. R. O., CO5-1371-32, 38.

[755] P. R. O., CO5-1371-276, 286.

[756] This Thomas Mathews was probably the author of the T. M. account of Bacon's Rebellion.

[757] P. R. O., CO2-39-31; CO5-1371-276, 286.

[758] P. R. O., CO5-1371-125, 127.

[759] P. R. O., CO1-39-38; CO1-41-79.

[760] T. M., p. 24.

[761] P. R. O., CO1-39-35; Hen., Vol. II, p. 550.

[762] P. R. O., CO1-39-35; Hen., Vol. II, p. 553.

[763] P. R. O., CO5-1371-152.

[764] P. R. O., CO5-1371-178, 179.

[765] P. R. O., CO5-1371-180, 181.

[766] P. R. O., CO1-45-3.

[767] P. R. O., CO5-1371-152.

[768] P. R. O., CO5-1371-152; Hen., Vol. II, p. 550.

[769] P. R. O., CO5-1371-32, 152.

[770] P. R. O., CO5-1371-152.

[771] P. R. O., CO5-1371-152.

[772] P. R. O., CO1-40-88.

[773] P. R. O., CO5-1371-132.

[774] P. R. O., CO5-1371-32.

[775] P. R. O., CO1-39-35.

[776] P. R. O., CO1-40-43.

[777] P. R. O., CO1-40-73, 106.

[778] P. R. O., CO1-40-114.

[779] P. R. O., CO1-39-35.

[780] P. R. O., CO1-39-35.

[781] P. R. O., CO5-1371-168 to 175; CO1-39-35.

[782] P. R. O., CO1-39-38.

[783] P. R. O., CO1-39-38.

[784] P. R. O., CO1-39-39.

[785] P. R. O., CO1-39-38.

[786] P. R. O., CO1-39-38.

[787] P. R. O., CO5-1371-39 to 44.

[788] P. R. O., CO5-1371-132.

[789] P. R. O., CO5-1371-182, 187

[790] P. R. O., CO5-1371-193 to 198.

[791] P. R. O., CO5-1371-208 to 211

[792] P. R. O., CO5-1371-212, 213.

[793] P. R. O., CO5-1371-220, 231.

[794] P. R. O., CO5-1371-220, 231.

[795] P. R. O., CO5-1371-212, 213.

[796] P. R. O., CO5-1371-220, 231.

[797] P. R. O., CO5-1371-220, 231.

[798] Probably the real postilion.

[799] P. R. O., CO5-1371-214 to 217.

[800] This proclamation was issued April 27, 1677. P. R. O., CO1-40-53.

[801] P. R. O., CO1-41-121; CO1-42-23.

[802] P. R. O., CO1-40-53.

[803] P. R. O., CO1-40-54.

[804] This letter was written May 13, 1677.

[805] P. R. O., CO389.6-195 to 198.

[806] P. R. O., CO1-40-88.

[807] P. R. O., CO389.6.

[808] P. R. O., CO1-40-110.

[809] P. R. O., CO389.6-207.

[810] P. R. O., CO389.6-210.

[811] P. R. O., CO389.6-212.

[812] P. R. O., CO5-1355-299; CO389.6-271 to 273.

[813] P. R. O., CO389.6-210, 215.

[814] P. R. O., CO389.6-210.

[815] P. R. O., CO5-1355-377.

[816] P. R. O., CO5-1371-45.

[817] Nothing can show this more clearly than the reception in the Assembly, which was largely
composed of justices of the peace, of the county grievances.

[818] P. R. O., CO391.2-180.

[819] P. R. O., CO5-1371-132.

[820] P. R. O., CO5-1371-132.

[821] P. R. O., CO391.2-180; Burk, Vol. II, pp. 259, 260.

[822] P. R. O., CO391.2-173 to 178; Burk, Vol. II, p. 260.

[823] P. R. O., CO1-41-87.

[824] P. R. O., CO1-42-138.

[825] P. R. O., CO5-1376-273.

[826] P. R. O., CO5-1376-273.

[827] P. R. O., CO1-41-87.

[828] P. R. O., CO1-42-141.

[829] P. R. O., CO1-42-141.

[830] P. R. O., CO391.2-300, 301.

[831] P. R. O., CO5-1355-354.

[832] Sains., Vol. XVIII, p. 129.

[833] P. R. O., CO1-41-17.

[834] Burk, Vol. II, p. 263.

[835] Burk, Vol. II, p. 259; P. R. O., CO391.2-180.

[836] Burk, Vol. II, p. 264.

[837] Burk, Vol. II, p. 266.

[838] P. R. O., CO391.2-180.

[839] P. R. O., CO1-41-121. Major Beverley was of good family. His military leadership in Bacon's
Rebellion, and his services as clerk of the Assembly, testify to his ability. Va. Mag., Vol.
II, p. 405.

[840] P. R. O., CO1-41-121.

[841] P. R. O., CO391.2-173 to 178.

[842] P. R. O., C039I.2-305.

[843] P. R. O., CO391.2-173 to 178.

[844] P. R. O., CO1-41-138; CO1-42-117.

[845] Va. Mag., Vol. XVIII, p. 18; P. R. O., CO1-42-55.

[846] Sains., Vol. XVII, p. 19.

[847] P. R. O., CO1-41-121.

[848] P. R. O., CO1-42-17.1, 23.

[849] P. R. O., CO1-42-23.

[850] P. R. O., CO1-42-17.1, 23.

[851] P. R. O., CO1-42-17.1, 23.

[852] P. R. O., CO1-42-17.1.

[853] P. R. O., CO1-42-23.

[854] P. R. O., CO1-42-23.

[855] P. R. O., CO1-42-17.1.

[856] P. R. O., CO1-42-23.

[857] P. R. O., CO1-42-17.1.

[858] P. R. O., CO5-1376.

[859] P. R. O., CO5-1376.

[860] P. R. O., CO1-42-55; Va. Mag., Vol. II, p. 408.

[861] Va. Mag., Vol. XVIII, p. 20.

[862] Va. Mag., Vol. XVIII, p. 12.

[863] Va. Mag., Vol. XVIII, p. 11.

[864] Va. Mag., Vol. XVIII, p. 23.

[865] P. R. O., CO1-42-103.

[866] Va. Mag., Vol. IX, p. 307.

[867] P. R. O., CO1-42-103.

[868] P. R. O., CO1-42-107.

[869] P. R. O., CO1-42-117.

[870] Va. Mag., Vol. IX, p. 307.

[871] P. R. O., CO5-1355-304, 305, 309.

[872] P. R. O., CO5-1355-305.

[873] P. R. O., CO5-1355-370.

[874] Va. Mag., Vol. IX, p. 307.

[875] P. R. O., CO1-41-121.

[876] Sains., Vol. XVII, p. 230.

[877] Sains., Vol. XVII, p. 230.

[878] Hen., Vol. II, p. 433.

[879] Hen., Vol. II, p. 441.

[880] Hen., Vol. II, p. 443.

[881] Hen., Vol. II, p. 456.

CHAPTER VIII

THE CRITICAL PERIOD

For some years after the Restoration the administration of English colonial affairs had been
very lax. The Council of Plantations, which had served as a Colonial Office during the period
from 1660 to 1672, had done little to control the Governors or to supervise and direct their
policies. With the exception of one list of questions sent to Virginia in 1670, they had left
Sir William Berkeley almost entirely to his own devices. September 27, 1672, the Council of
Plantations was united with the Board of Domestic Trade to form the Council of Trade and Plantations.
This new arrangement seems not to have been productive of good results, for in December, 1674,
after the fall of the Cabal ministry, it was discontinued and the direction of colonial affairs
entrusted to the King's Privy Council. This important body, finding its new duties very onerous,
created a committee of twenty-one members, to whom the supervision of trade and plantations
was assigned. In this way the King's most trusted ministers were brought into close touch with
colonial affairs. We find now such prominent statesmen as Secretary Coventry, Secretary Williamson
and Sir Lionel Jenkins carrying on extensive correspondence with the Governors, becoming interested
in all their problems and needs, and demanding copies of all journals of Assembly and other
state papers.[882]

This closer intimacy with the colonial governments led inevitably to a feeling of intolerance
for local autonomy and for representative institutions, and to a determination to force upon
the colonists a conformity with the policies and desires of the English government. Charles
II and James II, instituted, in the decade preceding the English Revolution, a series of measures
designed to curb the independence of the colonists. Some of the Assembly's long-established
and most important rights were attacked. Many of its statutes were annulled by proclamation;
its judicial powers were forever abolished; its control over taxation and expenditure was threatened;
the privilege of selecting the Assembly clerk was taken from it; while even the right to initiate
legislation was assailed.

The intolerant mood of the King and Privy Council is reflected in the instructions given Lord
Culpeper upon his departure for Virginia. They included orders depriving him of the power,
exercised freely by all former Governors, of calling sessions of the Assembly. "It is Our Will
and pleasure," Charles declared, "that for the future noe General Assembly be called without
Our special directions, but that, upon occasion, you doe acquaint us by letter, with the necessity
of calling such an Assembly, and pray Our consent, and directions for their meeting."[883]

Even more dangerous to the liberties of the people was the attempt to deprive the Assembly
of the right to initiate legislation. "You shall transmit unto us," Culpeper was commanded,
"with the advice and consent of the Council, a draught of such Acts, as you shall think fit
and necessary to bee passed, that wee may take the same into Our consideration, and return
them in the forme wee shall think fit they bee enacted in. And, upon receipt of Our commands,
you shall then summon an Assembly, and propose the said Laws for their consent."[884]

Most fortunately neither of these instructions could be enforced. The great distance of England
from Virginia, and the time required to communicate with the King, made the summoning of the
Assembly and the initiation of legislation without the royal assent a matter of absolute necessity.
Lord Culpeper, with his Majesty's especial permission, disregarded these orders during his
first visit to the colony, and later, to his great satisfaction, the Committee of Trade and
Plantations "altered their measures therein".[885]

Culpeper was directed to secure in the colony a permanent revenue for the King. It was rightly
judged that the representatives of royal authority could never be entirely masters of the government
while they were dependent for their salaries upon the votes of the Assembly. Sir William Berkeley,
it is true, had rendered his position secure by obliging all "the men of parts and estates",
but similar methods might be impossible for other Governors. The King and Privy Council did
not, however, attempt to raise the desired revenue by imposing a tax upon the people without
their own consent. An act levying a duty of two shillings a hogshead upon all tobacco exported
from Virginia was drawn up by the Attorney-General for ratification by the Assembly.[886] The
consent of the King in Council was duly received and the bill, with an act concerning naturalization
and another for a general pardon, were sent to Virginia by Lord Culpeper. "These bills," the
King told him, "we have caused to be under the Greate Seale of England, and our will is that
the same ... you shall cause to be considered and treated upon in our Assembly of Virginia."[887]

The revenue bill was quite similar to an act of Assembly still in force, which had imposed
a duty upon exported tobacco, but an all-important difference lay in the disposal of the funds
thus raised. The former statute had given the proceeds of this tax to the Assembly, "for the
defraying the publique necessary charges",[888] but the new act was to grant the money "to
the King's most excellent Majesty his heires and Successors for ever to and for the better
support of the Government".[889]

In order to carry out these new designs for the government of the colony, the King ordered
Lord Culpeper to prepare to sail at once. The Governor, however, was most reluctant to leave
the pleasures of the court for a life in the American wilderness. His departure had already
been long delayed, more than two years having elapsed since Charles had told the colonists
to expect his speedy arrival. Yet he still delayed and procrastinated. On the third of December,
1679, an order was issued giving his Lordship "liberty to stay in Towne about his affaires
until Monday next, and noe longer, and then to proceed forthwith" to the Downs, where "the
Oxford frigat" was waiting to convey him to Virginia.[890] But as he still lingered in London,
the Captain of the frigate was ordered to sail up the Thames to take him on board.[891] No
sooner had he left his moorings, however, than Culpeper, probably in order to gain time, hastened
away to the Downs. This so aroused the King's anger that he was pleased to direct one of his
principal secretaries to signify by letter to Lord Culpeper his high displeasure at his delay
and neglect of duty, and that his intentions were to appoint another Governor of Virginia unless
he embarked as soon as the frigate returned to the Downs.[892] But now adverse winds set in,
and Culpeper, with the tobacco fleet which had waited for him, was unable to sail until February
13, 1680.[893]

He arrived off the capes May the second, and eight days later took formal possession of his
government. Immediately the Councillors and other leading planters flocked around him, eager
to secure his support against the old rebellious party. Nor was their presentation of their
cause ineffectual in winning the Governor's sympathy. "All things," he wrote Secretary Coventry,
"are ... far otherwise than I supposed in England, and I beleeve ye Council, at least I have
seen through a mist."[894] It was to be expected then, that in settling the dispute that had
so long troubled the colony he would favor the Berkeley faction. And this, so far as the King's
commands would permit, he seems to have done. The wealthy planters expressed their satisfaction
with his measures, and the commons, if they disapproved, feared to reveal their resentment.
"His Excellency," wrote Colonel Spencer, "has with soe great prudence settled all the Affairs
of the Country that our late different Interests are perfectly united to the general satisfaction
of all his Majesty's Subjects in this colony."[895]

The Berkeley party was deeply displeased at the King's command to exclude Colonel Philip Ludwell
from the Council. Recognizing in the order the influence of Colonel Jeffreys and the other
commissioners, they assured the Governor that it had been secured by false representations.
The Councillors declared "that they were very sencible of ye want of that Assistance they for
many Years" had had from Colonel Ludwell, "whose good abilities, Knowne Integrity and approved
Loyalty" rendered him most necessary to his Majesty's service. They therefore earnestly requested
"his Excellency to Readmitt & Receive him to be one of ye Councill".[896] Culpeper yielded
readily, and Ludwell was restored to his seat.

The Burgesses were chagrined at the order to oust Major Robert Beverley from all public employment.
He was again the clerk of Assembly, for which office he was "their Unanimous Choyce", and his
disgrace was regarded as a rebuke to the House.[897] Upon their earnest petition Culpeper consented
that he should retain that important post in which he was soon to render signal service to
the people and to incur again the anger of the King and his ministers.[898]

When the Assembly convened the Governor at once laid before it the Act of General Pardon, the
Act of Naturalization and the Act for a Public Revenue. To the first and the second he obtained
a prompt assent, but the third was strenuously resisted. The House of Burgesses was filled
with gentlemen of the best families, men closely allied with the Council in position and interest,
yet they were unwilling to permit any part of the public revenue to pass out of the control
of the people.[899] "The House," they declared, "doe most humbly desire to be Excused if they
doe not give their approbacon of his Majesties bill."[900] And so determined were they, that
when the matter was again brought before them by the Governor they refused even to resume the
debate.[901]

But Culpeper, fearful of the King's displeasure, and uneasy for the payment of his own salary,
made strenuous efforts to secure the passage of the bill. He did not scruple to resort to bribery
and intimidation to force obedience from the stubborn Burgesses. We have the testimony of the
Governor himself to one notorious case of the misuse of the patronage. Among the leaders of
the House of Burgesses was Isaac Allerton, a man of wealth and education, and an excellent
speaker.[902] "He did assure me," Culpeper reported to the Privy Council, "of his utmost services
in whatsoever the King should command him by his Governor, particularly as to a further Bill
of Revenue for the support of ye Government, And I did engage to move his Majesty that hee
should bee of the Council ... though not to be declared till after the Session of next Assembly,
when I am sure he can bee as serviceable if not more than any other person whatsoever."[903]
This bargain was faithfully kept and in time Allerton, for thus betraying his trust, received
his seat in the Council.[904]

Nor did Lord Culpeper hesitate to intimidate the Burgesses by threatening to demand the payment
of all arrears of quit-rents. This tax, although belonging to the King from the first settlement
of the colony, had not, for many years, been duly collected. It was now rumored, however, that
the Privy Council intended, not only to enforce for the future a strict payment, but to demand
a settlement for the accumulated arrears. In 1679 Sir Henry Chicheley had forwarded to his
Majesty a petition from the Assembly asking relief from this great burden. If this be not granted,
he wrote, the payments which have been so long due and amount to so vast a sum, will fall heavily
upon all, but especially upon the poor.[905] Culpeper, knowing well the anxiety of the Burgesses
upon this point, told them that if they expected the King to grant their petition, they must
yield to his desire for a royal revenue in the colony.

Calling the Assembly before him, he urged them to resume their debate. "It looks," he said,
"as if you could give noe reasons or as if you were affraid to be convinced.... I desire you
to lay aside that irregular proceeding ... and resume the debate." The Council, he added, had
given their unanimous consent to the bill. "Consider the affaires of the Quitt Rents, Consider
the King's favour in every thing you may aske even to a cessacon ... and reflect if it be tante
for you not to concurr in a thing that, I am assured, ye King ... judges his owne and will
soe use it and the more fully then if this Act pass."[906]

Thus threatened, the Burgesses finally yielded, and the bill became law. But they insisted
upon adding to it two provisos: that the former export duty upon tobacco be repealed, and that
the exemption of Virginia ship owners from the payment of the tax, which had been a provision
of the former law, should be continued.[907] When some months later the matter came before
the Committee of Trade and Plantations, their Lordships expressed much dissatisfaction at these
amendments, declaring that the bill should have passed "in Terminis". Since, however, the first
proviso in no way changed the sense of the act, and had been added only to prevent a double
imposition, they recommended that it should be continued. But the second was declared null
and void by order of the King, as "irregular and unfit to be allowed of".[908]

Lord Culpeper, immediately after the dismissal of the Assembly made ready to return to England.
August 3, 1680, he read to the Council an order from the King granting him permission to leave
the colony, and a few days later he set sail in The James.[909] The government was again left
in the hands of the infirm Chicheley.[910]

Culpeper, upon his arrival in England, told the King that all was well in the colony, that
the old contentions had been forgotten, and the people were happy and prosperous. But this
favorable report, which was made by the Governor to palliate his desertion of his post, was
far from being true. There was, as he well knew, a deep-seated cause of discontent in Virginia,
that threatened constantly to drive the people again into mutiny and disorder. This was the
continued low price of tobacco. In the years which had elapsed since Bacon's Rebellion, the
people, despite their bitter quarrels, had produced several large crops, and the English market
was again glutted. "What doth quite overwhelm both us and Maryland," complained the colonists,
"is the extreme low price of our only commodity ... and consequently our vast poverty and infinite
necessity."[911] The Burgesses, in 1682, spoke of the worthlessness of tobacco as an "ineffable
Calamity". "Wee are," they said, "noe wayes able to force a miserable subsistance from the
same.... If force of penne, witt, or words Could truely represent (our condition) as it is,
the sad resentments would force blood from any Christian Loyall Subjects heart."[912] Some
months later the Council wrote, "The people of Virginia are generally, some few excepted, extremely
poor, ... not being able to provide against the pressing necessities of their families."[913]
That the Privy Council was aware, as early as October, 1681, that these conditions might lead
to another insurrection, is attested by a letter of the Committee of Trade and Plantations
to Lord Culpeper. "We are informed," they wrote, "that Virginia is in great danger of disturbance
... by reason of the extreme poverty of the People, occasioned by the low price of tobacco
which, tis feared may induce the servants to plunder the Stores of the Planters and the Ships
arriving there and to commit other outrages and disorders as in the late Rebellion."[914]

This universal distress created a strong sentiment throughout the colony in favor of governmental
restriction upon the planting of tobacco. Unless something were done to limit the annual crop,
prices would continue to decline. Many merchants, who had bought up large quantities of tobacco
in England with the expectation that its value would eventually rise, "fell to insinuate with
the easiest sort People how advantageous it would bee ... if an Act of Assembly could be procured
to cease planting tobacco for one whole year".[915] When, in the spring of 1682, it became
apparent that another large crop must be expected, an almost universal demand arose for the
immediate convening of the Assembly for the passage of a law of cessation.

The Councillors, although themselves in favor of some restraint upon the huge output, advised
the aged Deputy-Governor not to consent to a session at this juncture.[916] But Chicheley,
persuaded, it was claimed, by the insistent arguments of Major Beverley, yielded to the desires
of the people, and upon his own responsibility, issued writs summoning the Burgesses to convene
at Jamestown, April 18, 1682.[917] Five days before the date of meeting, however, a letter
arrived from the King, expressly forbidding an Assembly until November the tenth, when, it
was hoped, Lord Culpeper would have returned to his government.[918] The letter also informed
the Deputy-Governor that two companies of troops that had remained in Virginia ever since the
Rebellion, could no longer be maintained at the expense of the royal Exchequer. Since many
of the Burgesses were already on their way to Jamestown, Sir Henry decided to hold a brief
session, in order to permit them, if they so desired, to continue the companies at the charge
of the colony.[919] But he expressed his determination, in obedience to the King's commands,
to forbid the consideration of any other matter whatsoever.

The Burgesses met "big with expectation to enact a Cessation".[920] The appeals of their constituents
and the smart of their own purses made them desperately resolute to give the country relief
from the present depressing conditions. When they learned that after all their session was
to be in vain, and that they were to be allowed to vote only on the matter of continuing the
companies, they were deeply concerned and angered. Addressing the Deputy Governor, they declared
themselves overwhelmed with grief at the expectation of adjournment. They had, from all parts
of the drooping country, passionately wended their way to Jamestown, to attend this Assembly,
upon which the "last expiring hopes" of the "miserably indigent poor Country" were reposed.
Should they be compelled to return to their homes, having accomplished nothing, the people
would be struck with amazement, "like an unexpected death wound".[921]

The Deputy Governor, not daring to disobey the King, ignored their appeal, and bade them decide
without delay whether or not they would continue the two companies. But the Burgesses would
give no definite answer upon this matter, hoping by a policy of delay to win, in the end, Chicheley's
consent to the cessation. After seven days of fruitless bickering Sir Henry, in anger at their
obstinacy, prorogued the Assembly to November the tenth.[922] Before their dismissal, however,
the Burgesses, in order to show that they had not been remiss in endeavoring to secure relief
for the people, voted that the journal of their proceedings should be read publicly in every
county.

Nor had they misjudged the desperate humor of the people. When it became known throughout the
colony that the Assembly had done nothing to restrict the planting of tobacco, the anger of
the poor planters could not be restrained. Some bold spirits proposed that the people should
assemble in various parts of the country, and, in defiance of law and order, cut to pieces
the tobacco then in the fields. If the King would not permit a cessation by law, they would
bring about a cessation by force. A few days after the close of the Assembly, parties of men
in Gloucester began the work of destruction. It required but little exertion to ruin the tender
plants, and the rioters, passing from plantation to plantation, in an incredibly short time
accomplished enormous havoc. Many men, filled with the contagion, cut up their own tobacco,
and then joined the mob in the destruction of the crops of their neighbors.[923]

As soon as the news of this strange insurrection reached Jamestown, Chicheley dispatched Colonel
Kemp to Gloucester with directions to muster the militia and to restore order by force of arms.
This officer, with a troop of horse, fell upon one party of plant-cutters, and captured twenty-two
of their number. "Two of the principal and incorrigible rogues" he held for trial, but "the
rest submitting and giving assurances of their quiet and peacable behavior were remitted".[924]
Other parties, intimidated by these vigorous measures, dispersed, and soon peace was restored
throughout all Gloucester. But now news reached the Deputy-Governor "that the next adjacent
county, being new Kent, was lately broke forth, committing the like spoyles on plants". And
no sooner had the troops suppressed the rioters here than the disorders spread to Middlesex
and other counties. It became necessary to issue orders to the commanders of the militia in
each county to keep parties of horse in continual motion, to prevent the designs of the plant-cutters
and arrest their leaders.[925] And then the rioters, who had at first carried on their work
in the open day, "went in great companys by night, destroying and pulling up whole fields of
tobacco after it was well grown".[926] Not until August were the disorders finally suppressed.

These troubles, coming so soon after Bacon's Rebellion, caused great apprehension, both to
the colonial government and to the Privy Council. "I know," wrote Secretary Spencer, "the necessities
of the inhabitants to be such ... their low estate makes them desperate.... If they goe forward
the only destroying Tobacco plants will not satiate their rebellious appatites who, if they
increase and find the strength of their own arms, will not bound themselves."[927] And, although
the actual rioters were "inconsiderable people", yet it was thought they had been instigated
by men of position and wealth.[928]

Grave suspicion rested upon Major Robert Beverley.[929] It had been the importunities of "the
over-active Clerk" that had persuaded Chicheley, against the advice of the Council, to convene
the Assembly. It was he that had been the most industrious advocate of a cessation, that had
fomented the disputes in the Assembly, that had most strenuously opposed adjournment. And it
was he, the Council believed, that had "instilled into the multitude ... the right of making
a Cessation by cutting up Plants".[930] Moreover, they thought it not improbable that he would
lead the people into a new insurrection. The rabble regarded him with veneration and love.
His activity in suppressing the Rebellion and his opposition to the county grievances of 1677
had been forgotten, and they saw in him now only the defender of the poor and helpless. Were
he to assume the rôle of a Bacon and place himself at the head of the commons, he might easily
make himself master of the colony. Although there was no evidence against him, "but only rudeness
and sauciness", it was thought advisable to render him powerless to accomplish harm, by placing
him under arrest.[931] He was taken without resistance by Major-General Smith, "though to his
own great loss of 2 or 300 pounds, by the Rabbles cutting up his Tobacco plants within two
days after out of Spight".[932]

Beverley was kept in strict confinement on board an English ship, the Duke of York, where for
the time, he was safe from rescue by the people. But so fearful was the Council that he might
plot for a general insurrection, that they issued orders forbidding him to send or to receive
letters, and permitting him to speak only in the presence of the captain of the ship.[933]
Even these harsh measures did not reassure them, and it was decided to send him to the Eastern
Shore, where the people were most loyal to the government, and where rescue would be impossible.[934]
As preparations were being made to effect his transfer, he escaped from the custody of the
sheriff, and returned to his home in Middlesex. But he was soon recaptured, and conveyed to
Northampton. Here, despite all the efforts of his friends and his own violent protests, he
was kept in confinement for months. In the fall he applied for a writ of habeas corpus, but
this was denied him under the pretext that the whole matter had been referred to the King,
and was no longer within the jurisdiction of the Deputy-Governor and Council.[935] Since, however,
all fear of a rebellion was now passed, he was permitted, upon giving bail to the sum of £2,000,
to return to his home. But he was still restricted to the counties of Middlesex and Gloucester,
was declared ineligible to public office and was forbidden to plead as an attorney in any colonial
court.[936]

When the Privy Council learned of the plant-cutting in Virginia, they ordered Lord Culpeper
"to repair to the Government with all possible speed, in order to find out, by the strictest
enquiry, the abbetors and instruments of this commotion". And since they too were fearful of
a new insurrection, they gave directions "that some person who shall be found most faulty may
be forthwith punished".[937] "After which," the Privy Council advised, "and not before the
Governor may be directed to consider of and propose, with the advice of the Council and the
Assembly, ... some temperament in relation to the Planting of Tobacco and raising the price
of that commodity."[938]

Culpeper left England in October, 1682, upon "the Mermaid frigat", and, after a tedious and
dangerous voyage of eleven weeks, arrived safely in Virginia. He was resolved that the persons
responsible for the plant-cutting should be brought immediately to trial, and punished with
the utmost rigor of the law. The strictest inquiry was made into the conduct of Major Beverley,
and had there been evidence sufficient to convict him, the unfortunate Clerk would undoubtedly
have suffered death upon the gallows. But since only the most trivial offenses could be adduced
against him, Culpeper was forced to turn elsewhere for the victims demanded by the English
government.

So the prosecution was now directed against some of the actual plant-cutters. In this, however,
Culpeper found himself greatly embarrassed by Chicheley's previous treatment of the matter.
The Deputy-Governor had, some months before, issued pardons to many of the chief offenders,
and had permitted the others to give bail, thus treating their crime as "Ryot and noe more",
and making the affair seem "as slight as possible to the people".[939] But Culpeper, despite
this action of Sir Henry, ordered the arrest of four of the most notorious plant-cutters and
charged them with high treason. Their trial created great excitement throughout the colony,
but "despite the high words and threats" of the rabble, three of them were convicted. Two were
executed--Somerset Davies at Jamestown, and Black Austin "before the Court-house in Glocester
county, where the Insurrection first broke out".[940] The third was pardoned by the Governor.
"Hee was extremely young," Culpeper wrote, "not past 19, meerely drawn in and very penitent,
and therefore ... I thought fit to mingle mercy with Justice and Repreeved him ... to the end
the whole country might be convinced that there was no other motive in the thing but purely
to maintain Government."[941]

But although Culpeper was thus vigorous in punishing the disorders of the poor people, he did
nothing to remove the cause of their turbulence--the low price of tobacco. By an order in Council
of June 17, 1682, he had been directed to grant a cessation, should it seem expedient, and
had been given a letter from Secretary Jenkins to Lord Baltimore, requiring the coöperation
of Maryland.[942] But, upon finding the colony in peace and quiet, and the Assembly busy with
other concerns, he "took advantage thereof", and kept secret this unexpected concession. Culpeper
pretended to believe that the desired cessation would be of no real benefit to the planters,
but it is clear that he was consciously betraying the colony to the greed of the royal Exchequer.[943]
"I soe encouraged the planting of tobacco," he reported to the Privy Council, "that if the
season continue to be favorable ... there will bee a greater cropp by far than ever grew since
its first seating. And I am confident that Customs next year from thence will be £50,000 more
than ever heretofore in any one year."[944] Immediately after, he declared that he well knew
"that the great Cropp then in hand would most certainly bring that place into the utmost exigencies
again", and he promised to be prepared to quell the disturbances that would result.[945]

Before Lord Culpeper left England an order had been delivered to him "commanding that noe Governour
of his Majesty's Plantations, doe come into England from his Government", without first obtaining
leave from the King.[946] But so loath was he to remain long in Virginia, that as soon as he
had dispatched the business of the April court, he once more set sail for England. "I judged
it a proper time," he said, "to make a step home this easy quiet year, not out of any fondness
to bee in England, ... but for the King's service only."[947]

But Charles and the Privy Council were weary of Culpeper's neglect of duty. They decided to
rid themselves of so untrustworthy an officer and to appoint in his place a man that would
remain in the colony and carry out their wishes and policies. An inquisition was held upon
his conduct, and his letters patent as Governor-General were declared void.[948] On the 28th
of September, 1683, a commission as Lieutenant- and Governor-General of Virginia was granted
to Lord Howard of Effingham.[949]

Few British colonial Governors are less deserving of respect than Thomas Lord Culpeper. He
was insensible of any obligation to guard the welfare of the people of Virginia, and was negligent
in executing the commands of the King. He seems to have regarded his office only as an easy
means of securing a large income, and he was untiring in his efforts to extort money from the
exhausted and impoverished colony. Sir William Berkeley's salary as Governor had been £1,000,
but Culpeper demanded and received no less than £2,000.[950] In addition, he was allowed £150
a year in lieu of a residence, received pay as captain of infantry and claimed large sums under
the provisions of the Arlington-Culpeper grant.

Nor did he scruple to resort to open fraud in satisfying his greed. There were, in 1680, two
companies remaining in Virginia of the troops sent over to suppress Bacon's Rebellion. Having
received no pay for many months, the soldiers were discontented and mutinous.[951] The Privy
Council entrusted to Culpeper, upon his first departure for the colony, money to satisfy them,
and to compensate the householders with whom they had been quartered.[952] At this period,
as always in the seventeenth century, there was a great scarcity of specie in Virginia. But
there circulated, usually by weight, various foreign coins, the most common of which was the
Spanish piece of eight, about equal in value to five shillings in English money. My Lord, upon
his arrival, industriously bought up all the worn coins he could secure, arbitrarily proclaimed
them legal tender at the ratio of six shillings to one piece of eight, and then paid the soldiers
and the landlords. This ingenious trick probably netted him over £1,000. Later he restored
the ratio to five to one, so that he would lose nothing when his own salary became due. Of
such stuff were some of the Virginia colonial governors.[953]

But Culpeper's many defects were not wholly unfortunate for the colony, for they rendered him
unfit to carry out the designs of the King. His frequent absences from his government made
it impossible for him to become thoroughly acquainted with conditions in the colony, or to
bind the wealthy to him by a judicious use of the patronage. He was too weak, too careless
to pursue a long continued attack upon the established privileges of the people.

It boded ill, therefore, for Virginia, when he was removed, and a commission granted to Lord
Howard. The new Governor was well fitted for the task of oppression and coercion. Unscrupulous,
deceitful, overbearing, resentful, persistent, he proved a dangerous foe to the representative
institutions of the colony, and an able defender of royal prerogative. Had he not encountered
throughout his entire administration, the united and determined resistance of the Burgesses,
he might have overthrown all constitutional government. Well it was for Virginia that at this
moment of imminent danger, the Burgesses should have been so conscious of their duty and so
resolute in executing it. They were still, as in most periods of colonial history, men of high
social position, but they represented, not their own class, but the entire colony. And they
were ever watchful to guard the interests of the commons.

Effingham took the oath of office in England, October 24, 1683,[954] and a few months later
sailed for the colony.[955] No sooner had he set foot in Virginia than the struggle with the
Burgesses began. The session of Assembly of April, 1684, was filled with their bitter disputes.

Consternation reigned in the House when Lord Howard produced an instruction from the King forbidding
appeals from the inferior courts to the Assembly.[956] As early as October, 1678, Colonel Francis
Moryson had advised the Privy Council to abolish the judicial powers of the Assembly, claiming
that they were the source of the great influence and "arrogancy" of that body.[957] Their Lordships
did not awaken at once to the importance of this matter, but before long they became convinced
that Moryson was right. Accordingly Lord Culpeper, in his commission of 1682, was directed
to procure the immediate repeal of all laws "allowing appeals to the Assembly".[958] But Culpeper,
interested only in securing money from the Burgesses, failed to put this instruction into operation.
"As to what concerns Appeals," he declared, "I have never once permitted any one to come to
the Assembly, soe that the thing is in effect done. But having some thoughts of getting a Revenue
Bill to pass, I was unwilling actually to repeal ye Laws relating thereunto till the next session
of Assembly should be over, well knowing how infinitely it would trouble them."[959]

But Effingham had no such scruples, and told the Burgesses plainly the commands he bore from
the King.[960] The House, in great dismay, requested the Governor and the Council to join them
in an address to his Majesty, imploring him to restore a privilege which had so long been enjoyed
"according to ye Laws and antient Practice of the Country".[961] But Lord Howard replied coldly,
"It is what I can in noe parte admitt of, his Majesty haveing been pleased by his Royal instruccons
to direct & command that noe appeales be open to the General Assembly."[962]

Nor did the Assembly ever regain this important power. As late as 1691 we find the agent of
the Burgesses in England asking in vain for the restoration of the right of appeals.[963] The
change threw into the hands of the Governor and Council extraordinary power over the judiciary
of the colony. The county justices, who sat in the lower courts, were the appointees of the
Governor, and could not effectually resist his will. Moreover, as appeals lay from them to
the General Court, they were powerless before the decisions of the superior tribunal. Thus
the judiciary of the colony lost its only democratic feature.

The Burgesses, undismayed by their defeat in this matter, at this same session entered a vigorous
protest against the King's right to annul acts of Assembly. During Berkeley's administration
his Majesty had seldom exercised this power, but of late many acts had been repealed by proclamation
without the consent or knowledge of the Assembly. This, the Burgesses claimed, was an unwarranted
infringement upon the privileges granted them "by sundry Comissions, Letters and Instructions",
that was most destructive of their cherished liberties and rights. And they demanded that henceforth
their statutes should have the force of law until they had been "Repealed by the same Authority
of Generall Assembly".[964] But they received no encouragement from the Governor. What you
ask, he told them, "is soe great an entrenchment upon ye Royall authority that I cannot but
wonder you would offer at it".[965]

Thereupon the House determined to appeal directly to the King, petitioning him not only to
give up the right of repealing laws by proclamation, but to permit the continuation of appeals
to the Assembly. Since the Governor refused to transmit their address to his Majesty, they
forwarded copies to Secretary Jenkins by two of their own members--Thomas Milner and William
Sherwood.[966]

This address received scant consideration from the King and the Privy Council. "Whereas," James
II wrote Effingham in October, 1685, "it hath been represented unto us by our Committee for
Trade and Plantations, that they have received from some unknown persons a paper entitled an
address and supplication of the General Assembly of Virginia ... which you had refused to recommend
as being unfit to be presented.... Wee cannot but approve of your proceedings.... And wee doe
further direct you to discountenance such undue practices for the future as alsoe the Contrivers
and Promoters thereof."[967] For their activity in this matter Sherwood and Milner "in ye following
year were both turned out of all imployments to their great damage and disgrace".[968]

In the spring of 1685 Effingham received notification from the Privy Council of the death of
Charles II and the accession of the Duke of York as James II.[969] He replied a few days later,
"I have, with the greatest solemnity this place is capable of proclaimed his Majesty King James
II in all the considerable places of this colony, where the great Acclamations and Prayers
of the People gave a universal Testimony of their Obedience."[970] Despite these outward manifestations
of joy, the people were by no means pleased to have a Roman Catholic monarch upon the English
throne. When news reached Virginia that the Duke of Monmouth was in open rebellion, and had
gained important successes over his Majesty's forces, there was grave danger that the commons
of the colony might espouse his cause.[971] Many were so emboldened, wrote Effingham, "that
their tongues ran at large and demonstrated the wickedness of their hearts, till I secured
some and deterred others from spreading such false reports by my Proclamation".[972] The defeat
and execution of the Duke of Monmouth for a time ended all thought of resistance to the King.

But Effingham found the people sullen and discontented and the Burgesses more stubborn than
ever. The session of Assembly of 1685 was, perhaps, the most stormy ever held in Virginia.
The House made a strenuous and successful resistance to a vigorous attempt to deprive it of
its control over taxation. In 1662, when the Assembly was dominated by Sir William Berkeley,
an act had been passed empowering the Governor and Council to levy annually for three years
a tax of not more than twenty pounds of tobacco per poll.[973] In 1680 the Council had requested
Lord Culpeper to represent to the King the disadvantages of leaving taxation entirely in the
hands of the Assembly, hoping that his Majesty would by proclamation revive the law of 1662.[974]
The greatest item of expense to the government, they argued, arose from the Assembly itself,
"ye charge of which hath been too often found to be twice as much as would have satisfied all
publiq dues".[975] The matter was presented to the consideration of the Burgesses in 1680,
but was lost in the committee room.[976]

The King and Privy Council, although they approved of the levy by the Governor and the Council,
did not venture to grant them that power by royal proclamation. They instructed Lord Howard,
however, in his commission of 1683, to propose for passage in the Assembly a law similar to
that of 1662.[977] Accordingly, in 1684, Effingham placed the matter before the Burgesses and
told them that it was the King's desire that they give their consent. But they ignored his
message, and the Governor could not press the matter at that time. In the next session, however,
he became more insistent. "I must remind you," he told the Burgesses, "of what was omitted
in ye last Assembly ... that a Law may passe whereby His Majesty's Governor with ye advice
of ye Council may be empowered to lay a levy."[978] But the Burgesses would not yield. "The
House," they replied, "... do humbly signifye to your Excellency, that they can noe waies concede
to or comply with that proposition, without apparent and signal violation of ye great trust
with them reposed."[979] And when Effingham urged them to reconsider their action, they passed
a resolution unanimously refusing to relinquish this their greatest privilege.

After the prorogation of the Assembly, Lord Howard wrote home his complaints against the stubborn
Burgesses. "Your Lordships," he said, "will ... find their total denyal that the Governor and
Council should have any power to lay the least Levy to ease the necessity of soe frequent Assemblys....
This was propounded by mee to them before his Majesty's Instructions came to my hand that I
should,... but nothing would prevail nor I beleeve will, unless his Majesty's special command
therein."[980]

A long and acrimonious quarrel occurred over the quit-rents. Because of the lack of specie
in the colony, it had always been necessary to collect this tax, when it was collected at all,
in tobacco. In March, 1662, the Assembly had passed a law fixing the rate of payment at two
pence a pound, which was then not far from the current price. But the decline in value of the
commodity which had occurred since 1662, had resulted in a great diminution in the tax.

In July, 1684, the King wrote Effingham that he had taken over all the rights of Arlington
and Culpeper to the quit-rents, and announced it his intention to use them for the support
of the Virginia government. He directed the Governor to secure the repeal of the law of 1662
and to forbid all payments in tobacco. "You must ... impower," he wrote, "the Officers of our
Revenue to collect (them) ... according to ye reservation of 2s per every hundred acres ...
to be paid in specie, that is in Mony."[981]

As tobacco sold, in 1684, at a half penny a pound, this order, had it been put into operation,
would have quadrupled the value of the quit-rents, and increased materially the burdens of
the planters. The Burgesses, in alarm, petitioned the Governor to allow the old arrangement
to continue, declaring that the lack of specie made it impossible to comply with the King's
order. And they refused to repeal the law of March, 1662.

Displeased at their obstinacy, the King, in August, 1686, nullified the law by proclamation.
"Being now informed," he declared, "that several persons goe about to impede our Service ...
by imposing bad tobacco upon our collectors at the rate of 2d per llb, under pretence of an
Act of Assembly of March 30, 1662, ... Wee have thought fit to Repeal the said Act."[982]

Even then the Burgesses resisted. At the session of 1686 they petitioned on behalf of all the
freeholders of the colony that the quit-rents should be paid as formerly. To make payment in
specie, they declared, would not only be ruinous, but utterly impossible.[983] So angered were
they and so determined not to obey, that Effingham found it expedient to consent to a compromise.
It was agreed that the tax should be collected in tobacco as before, but at the rate of one
penny per pound, which, as Effingham said, was not ad valorum. Thus the only result of this
long quarrel was to double the value of the quit-rents, and to add greatly to the burdens of
the impoverished and discontented people.[984]

Even more bitter was the contest over the so-called Bill of Ports. This measure was designed
to remedy the scattered mode of living in Virginia, by appointing certain places as ports of
landing and shipment, and confining to them all foreign trade. Throughout the seventeenth century
almost all shipping was done from private wharves. The country was so interspersed with rivers,
inlets and creeks, deep enough to float the largest vessels, that ports were entirely unnecessary.
Each planter dealt directly with the merchants, receiving English manufactured goods almost
at his front door, and lading the ships with tobacco from his own warehouse. This system, so
natural and advantageous, seemed to the English Kings, and even to the colonists, a sign of
unhealthful conditions. More than once attempts had been made to force the people to build
towns and to discontinue the desultory plantation trade.

In 1679, Culpeper was ordered to propose a law in the Assembly requiring the erection of towns
on each great river, to which all foreign trade should be confined. Accordingly, in 1680, a
Bill of Ports was passed. "Wee are now grown sensible," wrote Secretary Spencer, "that our
present necessities, and too much to be doubted future miseries, are much heightened by our
wild and rambling way of living, therefore are desirous of cohabitation, in order whereunto
in ye late Assembly an Act was made appointing a town in every County, where all Goods imported
are to be landed, and all Goods exported to be shipt off. And if this takes effect, as its
hoped it may, Virginia will then go forward which of late years hath made a retrograde motion."[985]

But this attempt ended in dismal failure. In 1681, when the shipmasters came to the appointed
ports, they found that no shelter had been constructed for their goods. Thinking the law nullified,
or not yet in operation, they traded as usual from private wharves. For this breach of the
law, some of them were prosecuted in the colonial courts, to their own great loss and to the
inconvenience of many of the planters.[986] Loud wrangling and bitter animosities resulted
throughout the colony, and at length the King was compelled to suspend the law.[987]

In the Assembly of 1685 it was proposed to enact another Bill of Ports. Accordingly an act
was drafted in the House of Burgesses and, in due time, sent up for the approval of the Council.
The upper house, after making several alterations, consented to the bill and returned it to
the Burgesses. The latter agreed to most of the changes, but struck out a clause restricting
the towns to two upon each river, and added an amendment permitting one port to a county.[988]
The Council in turn yielded, but inserted a new clause, "That there should bee ffees ascertained
on Goods exported and imported for the support of those Officers which should bee obliged to
reside in those Ports".[989] As "there was noe room in ye margint to write ye alteration ...
it was wrote in a piece of paper and affixt to ye Act".[990] When the bill came back to the
House, Major Robert Beverley, who was again the clerk of the Assembly, acting it would seem
upon his own initiative, tore off the paper containing this amendment. The bill then came before
the House apparently assented to without change and was returned by them for the signature
of the Governor and the Councillors. Neither Effingham nor any of the Council noticed the omission,
and thinking their amendment had been accepted, signed the bill.[991] Thereupon it was engrossed,
and sent up for the final signature of the Governor. But Effingham in reading the engrossed
copy, discovered the omission, and refused to affix his name to the bill, claiming that it
"was not engrost as assented to" by him and the Council.[992] "To which," wrote the Governor,
"they sent mee word that the Bill could admit of noe alteration or amendment after it was attested
by the Clerk of the General Assembly as assented to, and that it had by that the force of a
Law.... I sent them word again that though any bill was assented to by mee and the Council,
yet if I should afterwards perseive it would prove prejudicial ... I had power to refuse the
signing of it by vertue of His Majesty's negative voice.... But all would not persuade them
out of their obstinacy, nay tho' I offered to lay that Bill aside till His Majesty's pleasure
should bee known therein; And to sign all the others.... But nothing would please them but
Invading, if not destroying, His Majesty's Prerogative." The Burgesses declared that they did
not contest the Governor's right to the veto, but contended that when once he signed a bill,
"it could not faile of having ye force of a Law".[993] Effingham, they complained, was claiming
a "double negative Voice". So angry did they become that they refused to apportion the levy
for defraying the public charges, and after many days of bitter contention the Governor was
forced to prorogue them.

"I did not disolve them," he wrote the Privy Council, "for these reasons. Because if his Majesty
shall think fitt to have them dissolved, it will bee soe great a rebuke to them, when done
by his Majesty's special command, that I hope it will deter them for the future to bee soe
obstinate and peevish."[994] Accordingly, in August, 1686, the King wrote the Governor, "Whereas,
we have been informed of ye irregular and tumultuous proceedings of the House of Burgesses
of Virginia, at their late meeting, the members thereof having ... presumed so far as to raise
contests touching ye power of ye Negative Voice ... which wee cannot attribute to any other
Cause then the disaffected & unquiet Dispositions of those Members.... Wee have thought fitt
hereby as a mark of our displeasure ... to Charge ... you forthwith to Dissolve the present
Assembly."[995]

When this order reached Virginia the Assembly was again in session. "After I had passed the
Acts," wrote Effingham, "I ordered His Majesty's Letter to bee publickly read to them, and
then Dissolved them ... and told them they were the first Assembly which had been soe dissolved
and I hoped they would bee the last that should deserve it. I ordered copies of his Majesty's
Letter to bee sent to the several County-Courts, that all the Inhabitants might know how displeasing
such proceedings were to his Majesty."[996] "And now," he added, "the public debts being paid,...
I shall not for the future have soe frequent Assemblys."[997]

More damaging to the Burgesses than this rebuke was the loss of the right to elect their own
clerk. "I was severely angry with their Clerk," declared Effingham, "that he durst omit ye
least clause, especially soe material an one ... I sent to the Assembly to make him an example
for it, But they rather maintained him."[998] Some months later the King sent orders that Beverley
be tried for defacing the records and that he be once more deprived of all offices. Probably
because of his great popularity, Beverley was never brought to trial, but he was forced to
relinquish his lucrative governmental posts.[999] In May, 1686, Nicholas Spencer wrote the
Committee of Trade and Plantations, advocating the appointment of the clerk by the Governor.
"I ... beg leave to present," he said, "how necessary it is ... that the clerk of the House
... bee commissionated by his Majesty's Governour ... and that his salary be appointed unto
him out of his Majesty's revenue. This will take off his dependency on his great masters the
House of Burgesses, and leave noe room for designed omissions."[1000] Nothing loath, the King,
in August, 1686, wrote Lord Howard, "Wee ... require you ... upon the Convening of the Assembly
to appoint a fit person to execute the Office of Clerk of the House of Burgesses, & not to
permit upon any pretense whatsoever any other person to execute ye said Office but such as
shall bee soe chosen by you."[1001]

Accordingly, at the session of April, 1688, the Governor, with the approbation of the Council,
appointed Captain Francis Page as clerk of the House.[1002] The Burgesses could but yield,
but they told Effingham that the clerk was still their servant and ought to take the usual
oath of secrecy. "I do declare," replied the Governor, "it was never my intention nor my desire
that the Clerk should be as a spy upon your Actions and to declare to me your private Debates."
It was therefore agreed that he should take the following oath: "You shall keep secret all
private Debates of the said House of Burgesses."[1003] Despite this, it was quite evident that
the House was no longer to be master of its own clerk, and that he was to be in the future,
to some extent at least, an emissary of the enemy seated in their midst.

The resolute and vigilant defense of the constitutional rights of Virginia made by the House
in this the critical period of her history is deserving of the highest praise, because it was
made in the face of vigorous personal attacks by Effingham upon the most active of the members.
Every Burgess that voted against the measures proposed by the King or advocated by his Governor,
exposed himself not only to removal from office, but to active persecution. As we have seen,
Mr. William Sherwood and Colonel Thomas Milner, for forwarding to the Privy Council the address
of the Burgesses in 1684, had been dismissed from office.[1004] "In ye year 1686 Mr. Arthur
Allen & Mr. John Smith, who were Burgesses in ye year 1685, were turned out of all imployment
Civill & Military to Mr. Allen's great damage, he being a surveyor of land at that tyme."[1005]
I have displaced Allen, wrote Effingham, because he was "a great promoter of those differences
between mee and the Assembly concerning the King's negative Voice ... as not thinking it fitt
that those who are peevishly opposite to his Majesty's interest should have any advantage by
his favor".[1006] "In the year 1688 Mr. William Anderson, a member of ye Assembly in that year
was soon after the Assembly by the Governor's order and Command put in ye Common goale and
there detained 7 months, without Tryal, though often prayed for, and several courts past in
ye time of his imprisonment. Nor could he obtain ye benefit of habeas corpus upon his humble
petition.... Mr. Charles Scarburgh, a member of that Assembly, alsoe was, soon after ye Assembly,
turned out of all imployment and as a mark of his Lordship's displeasure, a command was sent
to ye clerk of ye county to raze his name out of ye records as a Justice of Peace."[1007] "From
whence," it was declared, "the people conclude these severities are inflicted rather as a terrour
to others than for any personall crimes of their owne, and is of such ruinous consequence that
either the public or particular interests must fall, for if none oppose, the country must languish
under the severity of the government, or fly into a mutiny to save themselves from starving.
If any do appear more zealous in prosecuting the countries complaints they know what to expect.
It being observable that none has been thus punisht but those who were forward in the assembly
to oppose the encroachments on the people, and promote the complaint to England, being out
of hope of relief on the place."[1008]

One is inclined to ask, when considering the incessant quarrels of the Governor and the Burgesses,
why Lord Howard was less successful than Governor Berkeley had been in gaining an ascendency
over the Assembly. During the Restoration Period the Burgesses had worked in entire harmony
with Sir William, even when he advocated the oppressive measures that were so instrumental
in bringing on Bacon's Rebellion. Effingham, on the other hand, found himself continually embroiled
with the Assemblymen, and unable to force them into submission even with rebukes and persecution.

The explanation must be sought partly in the different characters of the two Governors. Berkeley
was an abler man than Lord Howard, more tactful, more capable of utilizing the weapons at hand.
His method of overwhelming the legislators with favors was more effective in winning their
support than intimidation and threats. Moreover, Sir William, himself a Virginian by his long
residence in the colony, carried out only his own policies, and by methods that did not openly
assail the charter rights of the people. Effingham, on the other hand, was the instrument of
the English King and his Councillors in an assault upon representative government in the colony.
It was but natural that all classes, even the wealthy planters, should resist him with stubborn
resolution. Nor was it possible for Effingham to control, as Sir William had done, the elections
of Burgesses. The opposition of many sheriffs, whose duty it was to preside at the polls, to
the administration, the greater vigilance of the House, and the independent spirit of the commons
conspired to render the returns more accurate and the House more responsive to the will of
the people. Finally, the poor planters found now, what they had lacked during the Restoration
Period, cultured and able men to represent them in the Assembly. Without the aggressive leadership
of Major Robert Beverley, Thomas Milner, Colonel Ballard, and other prominent planters, the
cause of the people might have been lost.

Even in the Council the commons had one staunch friend--Colonel Philip Ludwell. This restless
man, who was unable to work in harmony with any Governor save Sir William Berkeley, sympathized
with his old friends of the Green Spring faction in their resistance to Effingham. As early
as 1684 he had aroused the Governor's suspicion by arguing in Council "for the undutiful Address
which was sent to his Majesty",[1009] and during the sessions of 1685 and 1686 it was thought
that he was "an Instrument in Abbetting and formenting those Disputes & Exceptions the Assembly
soe insisted on".[1010]

Soon after, the Governor's distrust was heightened by two acts of favor shown by Ludwell to
leaders of the opposition in the House of Burgesses. When ordered to oust Major Allen from
his surveyor's place, he gave it to "Major Swan, one altogether as troublesom as the other
& that only for the use of Allen". Upon receiving information that the King had declared Major
Beverley "uncapable of any public imployment ... hee presently gives his Surveyor's place,
the best in the Country to his Son".[1011] In the spring of 1686 the Governor made one last
attempt to win Ludwell over from the people's cause. "I did," he wrote, "on the death of Colonel
Bridger ... give him a collector's place, in hopes to have gained him by it."[1012] But Ludwell,
unaffected by this attempted bribery, continued his active opposition to the arbitrary and
illegal conduct of the Governor. At last, during the session of Assembly of 1686, there occurred
an open breach. "His Lordship flew into a great rage and told ... Ludwell he had formerly made
remarks upon him, and that if he did not look the better to himself he should shortly suspend
him from the Council."[1013] Early in 1687 this threat was put into effect,[1014] and the troublesome
Councillor was for the second time deprived of his seat. But this persecution, which the people
believed to be directed against Ludwell for his support of their cause, brought him into great
popularity throughout the colony and made him the acknowledged leader of the opposition to
the administration. In the elections for the Assembly of 1688 he was chosen by the freeholders
of James City county to represent them in the House of Burgesses.[1015] Effingham, however,
would not allow him to take his seat, producing a clause from his commission which forbade
suspended Councillors to become members of the Assembly.[1016] Despite this exclusion, Ludwell
could and did, by conferences with individual members, influence the actions of the House and
lead them in their fight against the Governor.

The most important task that confronted the Burgesses when they assembled in 1688 was to call
the Governor to account for many burdensome fees which he had imposed upon the people by executive
order. First in importance was "a fee of 200 pounds of tobacco for the Seal affixed to Patents
& other public instruments".[1017] This the Burgesses considered a tax imposed without the
authority or consent of the Assembly, and consequently destructive of the most cherished rights
of the people. Moreover, it had, they claimed, deterred many from using the seal and had greatly
impeded the taking up of land. They also protested against a fee demanded by the "Master of
the Escheat Office of £5 or 1000lbs tobacco", and to one of thirty pounds of tobacco required
by the Secretary for recording surveys of land.[1018] "This House," they declared, "upon Examination
of the many grievous Complaints ... (have) been fully convinced and made sensible that many
unlawful and unwarrantable fees and other dutyes have been, under colour of his Majesty's Royal
authority, unjustly imposed ... & that divers new unlawful, unpresidented & very burthensom
and grievous wayes & devises have been of late made use of to the great impoverishing Vexing
and utter undoeing of many of his Majesties Subjects of this his Dominion."[1019]

The Burgesses were also deeply concerned at an instance of the unwarrantable use of the royal
prerogative. In 1680 an act had been passed concerning attorneys. Two years later, before the
act had received the royal assent, it had been repealed by the Assembly. Later the King, by
proclamation, had made void the act of 1682, and the Governor had insisted that this revived
the law of 1680. Against this, the Burgesses in 1688 entered a vigorous protest. "A Law," they
declared, "may as well Receive its beginning by proclamation as such revivall.... Some Governor
may be sent to Govern us who under the pretense of the liberty he hath to construe prerogative
and stretch it as far as he pleaseth may by proclamation Revive all the Lawes that for their
great Inconveniences to the Country have been Repeal'd through forty years since."[1020]

The Burgesses drew up a long paper, setting forth their many grievances, with the intention
of presenting it to the Governor. They first, however, requested the Council to join them in
their demand for redress. This the Council with some sharpness, refused to do. We are apprehensive,
they replied, that the grievances "proceed from petulent tempers of private persons and that
which inclines us the rather so to take them is from the bitterness of the Expressions".[1021]
Judging the Governor's temper from this reply of the Councillors, the Burgesses relinquished
hope of redress from the executive and determined to petition the King himself. An humble address
was drawn up, entrusted to Colonel Philip Ludwell and delivered by him at Windsor, in September,
1688, into the hands of James II. Before it could be considered, however, William of Orange
had landed in England and King James had been overthrown.[1022]

In the meanwhile a crisis in Virginia had been approaching rapidly. The people felt that their
religion, as well as their liberties, was menaced by the rule of James II. In 1685, the King
had directed Effingham "to permit a Liberty of Conscience to all persons", that would "bee
contented with a quiet and peaceable enjoyment of it, not giving offence or scandal".[1023]
The people of Virginia understood well enough that this order was dictated, not by considerations
of liberality, but by James' determination to favor the Catholic church. The feeling of uneasiness
was increased when, in 1688, Effingham, declaring it no longer necessary for the Burgesses
to take the oaths of allegiance and supremacy, admitted a Catholic to the Assembly.[1024]

In October, 1688, James sent word to the Governor of the impending invasion of the Prince of
Orange and commanded him to place Virginia in a posture of defense.[1025] Immediately the colony
was thrown into the wildest excitement, and, for a time, it seemed probable that the people
would attempt the expulsion of Effingham. "Unruly and unorderly spiritts," the Governor afterwards
testified, "laying hold of the motion of affairs, and that under the pretext of religion,...
betook themselves to arms."[1026] Wild rumors spread through the colony that the Papists of
Maryland were conspiring with the Senecas to fall upon Virginia and cut off all Protestants
in a new Saint Bartholomew's Eve.[1027] The frontiersmen along the upper courses of the Rappahannock
and the Potomac "drawing themselves into parties upon their defense", were "ready to fly in
the face of ye government. Soe that matters were ... tending to a Rebellion." However, the
news of William's easy victory and the flight of James restored quiet to the colony. On February
the nineteenth, 1689, the Privy Council wrote the Governor that William and Mary had ascended
the throne of England,[1028] and a few weeks later their Majesties were proclaimed at Jamestown
with solemnity and thanksgiving.[1029]

The Glorious Revolution was a victory for liberty even more important to Virginia than to England.
It brought to an end those attacks of the English government upon the representative institutions
of the colony that had marked the past ten years. It confirmed to the people the rights that
had been guaranteed them, through a long series of patents dating back as far as 1606, and
rendered impossible for all time the illegal oppressions of such men as Harvey, Berkeley, Culpeper
and Effingham. Other Governors of despotic disposition were yet to rule Virginia--Nicholson,
Andros, Dunmore--but it was impossible for them to resort to the tyrannical methods of some
of their predecessors. The English Revolution had weakened permanently the control of the British
government over the colony, and consequently the power of the Governor.

The advance of liberalism which was so greatly accelerated both in England and in America by
the events of 1688 was halted in the mother country in the middle of the eighteenth century.
But Virginia and the other colonies were not greatly affected by the reaction upon the other
side of the Atlantic. Here the power of the people grew apace, encountering no serious check,
until it came into conflict with the sullen Toryism of George III. Then it was that England
sought to stifle the liberalism of the colonies, and revolution and independence resulted.

The changed attitude of the Privy Council towards Virginia was made immediately apparent by
the careful consideration given the petition of the Burgesses. Had James remained upon the
throne it is probable that it, like the address of 1684, would have been treated with neglect
and scorn. But William received Ludwell graciously, listened to his plea "on behalf of the
Commons of Virginia", and directed the Committee of Trade and Plantations to investigate the
matter and to see justice done.[1030]

Effingham, who had been called to England upon private business, appeared before the Committee
to defend his administration and to refute Ludwell's charges. Despite his efforts, several
articles of the petition were decided against him, and the most pressing grievances of the
people redressed. The "Complaint touching the fee of 200lbs of tobacco and cask", it was reported,
"imposed by my Lord Howard for affixing the Great Seal to Patents ... in regard it was not
regularly imposed ... the committee agree to move his Majesty the same be discontinued".[1031]
Similarly their Lordships declared in favor of abolishing the fee of thirty pounds of tobacco
required for registering surveys. The article touching the revival of repealed laws by proclamation
was referred to the consideration of the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General. These
officers gave it as their opinion that his Majesty did have the right, by repealing acts of
repeal, to revive laws, but the committee agreed to move the King that the Act of Attorneys
should be made void by proclamation.[1032]

This was a signal victory for the Burgesses, but Ludwell, who had personal scores to settle
with the Governor, did not let matters drop here. After the lapse of several months he appeared
once more before the Committee with charges against Effingham of misgovernment and oppression.[1033]
Referring to the quarrel over the Bill of Ports, in 1685, he accused him of exercising "two
negative voices". He complained bitterly of his attacks upon those Burgesses that had opposed
him in the Assembly, and of his abuse of the power of suspending Councillors. The money arising
from fort duties, he said, which had formerly been accounted for to the Assembly, had, during
Effingham's administration, "been diverted to other uses". The Governor had established new
courts of judicature contrary to the wishes of the people.

These persistent attacks of Ludwell resulted in another victory, for the Committee decided
that Effingham should no longer rule the colony. He was not displaced as Governor-General,
but he was commanded to remain in England, and to leave the control of the administration to
a Lieutenant-Governor. This, doubtless, was not unsatisfactory to Lord Howard, for he retained
a part of his salary and was relieved of all the work and responsibility of his office. The
Lieutenant-Governorship was given to Captain Francis Nicholson.[1034]

Thus the colony emerged triumphant from the Critical Period. It is true the House of Burgesses
had lost many privileges--the right to elect its own clerk, the right to receive judicial appeals,
the right to control all revenues,--but they had retained within their grasp that all-important
power--the levying of general taxes. And they had gained greatly in political experience. Long
years of watchfulness, of resistance to encroachments upon their rights, had moulded them into
a body that the most cunning executive could neither cajole nor intimidate. Unmindful of the
anger of Governors, the rebukes of Kings, of personal loss, even of imprisonment, they had
upheld the people's rights. And their descendants were to reap the reward of their faithfulness.
The traditions of ability, probity and heroism established by the men of the Critical Period
made possible that long and honorable career of the House of Burgesses and the important rôle
it was to play in winning independence for America.

FOOTNOTES:

[882] Osg., Vol. III, pp. 280, 281.

[883] P. R. O., CO5-1355-334; McD., Vol. V, p. 302.

[884] P. R. O., CO5-1355-313, 334.

[885] P. R. O., CO5-1355-334; McD., Vol. V, p. 302.

[886] P. R. O., CO5-1356; CO391.2-276, 325, 283 to 285.

[887] P. R. O., CO1-43-165.

[888] Hen., II, p. 133.

[889] P. R. O., CO5-1376; Hen., Vol. II, p. 466.

[890] P. R. O., CO5-1355-372.

[891] P. R. O., CO5-1355-375.

[892] P. R. O., CO5-1355-375, 376.

[893] P. R. O., CO5-1355-378.

[894] P. R. O., CO5-1355-385.

[895] P. R. O., CO5-1355-384.

[896] P. R. O., CO5-1376-265.

[897] Jour. H. of B., 1680, p. 1.

[898] Jour. H. of B., 1680, p. 7.

[899] Among the Burgesses were Captain William Byrd, Major Swann, Benjamin Harrison, Colonel
Ballard, Colonel Mason, Colonel John Page, Colonel Matthew Kemp, William Fitzhugh, Isaac Allerton,
John Carter and Captain Fox. P. R. O., CO5-1376-321.

[900] Jour. H. of B., 1680, pp. 13, 14.

[901] Jour. H. of B., 1680, p. 27.

[902] P. R. O., CO5-1356-125.

[903] P. R. O., CO5-1356-125, 126.

[904] P. R. O., CO5-1356-265.

[905] P. R. O., CO5-1355-361.

[906] Jour. H. of B., 1680, p. 32.

[907] Jour. H. of B., 1680, p. 36.

[908] P. R. O., CO5-1355-388 to 394.

[909] P. R. O., CO5-1355-380; CO5-1376-286.

[910] P. R. O., CO5-1355-396.

[911] P. R. O., CO5-1355-408.

[912] Jour. II. of B., April 1682, p. 4.

[913] P. R. O., CO5-1356-179.

[914] P. R. O., CO5-1356-1, 2.

[915] P. R. O., CO5-1356-177.

[916] P. R. O., CO5-1356-73.

[917] P. R. O., CO5-1356-73, 156; Jour, H. of B., April 1682.

[918] P. R. O., CO5-1356-11, 12, 68, 72.

[919] P. R. O., CO5-1356-8.

[920] P. R. O., CO5-1356-68.

[921] Jour. H. of B., April 1682, pp. 4, 5.

[922] Jour. H. of B., April 1682; P. R. O., CO5-1356-68.

[923] P. R. O., CO5-1356-65, 66, 67.

[924] P. R. O., CO5-1356-70.

[925] P. R. O., CO5-1356-71.

[926] P. R. O., CO5-1356-178.

[927] P. R. O., CO5-1356-71.

[928] P. R. O., CO5-1356-178.

[929] P. R. O., CO5-1356-74.

[930] P. R. O, CO5-1356-74.

[931] Hen., Vol. III, p. 543.

[932] P. R. O., CO5-1356-156.

[933] Hen., Vol. III, p. 544.

[934] Hen., Vol. III, p. 546.

[935] Hen., Vol. III, pp. 546, 547.

[936] Hen., Vol. III, p. 547.

[937] P. R. O., CO5-1356-76.

[938] P. R. O., CO5-1356-76, 77.

[939] P. R. O., CO5-1356-157.

[940] P. R. O., CO5-1356-158.

[941] P. R. O., CO5-1356-159.

[942] P. R. O., CO5-1356-76, 77, 163.

[943] P. R. O., CO5-1356-164.

[944] P. R. O., CO5-1356-164.

[945] P. R. O., CO5-1356-164, 169.

[946] P. R. O., CO5-1356-87.

[947] P. R. O., CO5-1356-168, 169.

[948] P. R. O., CO5-1356-188, 239, 244, 114.

[949] P. R. O., CO5-1356-188.

[950] P. R. O., CO5-1356-56, 145, 146.

[951] P. R. O., CO5-1376-287.

[952] P. R. O., CO1-42-152; CO391.2-276.

[953] Beverley.

[954] P. R. O., CO5-1356-244, 245.

[955] P. R. O., CO5-1356-248.

[956] Jour. H. of B., 1684, pp. 23, 24.

[957] P. R. O., CO1-42-138, 139.

[958] P. R. O., CO5-1356-53.

[959] P. R. O., CO5-1356-142.

[960] P. R. O., CO5-1356-22.

[961] Jour. H. of B., 1684, p. 37.

[962] Jour, H. of B., 1684, p. 42.

[963] Justice in Va., p. 25.

[964] Jour. H. of B., 1684, p. 114.

[965] Jour. H. of B., 1684, p. 159.

[966] P. R. O., CO5-1356-299, 301.

[967] P. R. O., CO5-1357-58.

[968] McD., Vol. VII, p. 88.

[969] P. R. O., CO5-1356-316.

[970] P. R. O, CO5-1356-328.

[971] P. R. O., CO5-1357-79, 80, 95, 96; Jour. H. of B., 1685, p. 49.

[972] P. R. O., CO5-1357-80.

[973] Hen., Vol. II, p. 24; P. R. O., CO5-1376-281.

[974] P. R. O., CO5-1376-281.

[975] P. R. O., CO5-1376-281; CO5-1356-101.

[976] P. R. O., CO5-1376-362.

[977] P. R. O., CO5-1356-267.

[978] Jour. H. of B., 1685.

[979] Jour. H. of B., 1685.

[980] P. R. O., CO5-1357-85.

[981] P. R. O., CO5-1356-282.

[982] P. R. O., CO5-1357-113.

[983] Jour. H. of B., 1686, p. 17.

[984] Jour. H. of B., 1686, p. 37.

[985] P. R. O., CO5-1355-383.

[986] P. R. O., CO5-1356-177.

[987] P. R. O., CO5-1356-4.

[988] P. R. O., CO5-1407-310, 282.

[989] P. R. O., CO5-1357-89.

[990] P. R. O., CO5-1407-310.

[991] P. R. O., CO5-1357-89.

[992] P. R. O., CO5-1357-89.

[993] Jour. H. of B., 1685.

[994] P. R. O., CO5-1357-93.

[995] P. R. O., CO5-1357-119.

[996] P. R. O., CO5-1357-127.

[997] P. R. O., CO5-1357-133.

[998] P. R. O., CO5-1357-92; McD., Vol. VII, p. 222.

[999] Sains., Vol. XV, p. 30.

[1000] McD., Vol. VII, p. 229.

[1001] P. R. O., CO5-1357-119.

[1002] Jour. H. of B., 1688, p. 1.

[1003] Jour. H. of B., 1688, p. 17.

[1004] Sains., Vol. IV, p. 254.

[1005] McD., Vol. VII, p. 26.

[1006] McD., Vol. VII, p. 257. Some years later Effingham contradicted this statement. "They
were not dismissed," he said, "from their imployments upon account of their proceedings in
ye Assembly, but being Justices of Peace they oppenly opposed the King's authority in naming
sheriffs by his Governour alledging that office ought to go by succession."

[1007] McD., Vol. VII, pp. 437-441.

[1008] McD., Vol. VII, pp. 437-441.

[1009] P. R. O., CO5-1357-130.

[1010] CO5-1357-127.

[1011] P. R. O., CO5-1357-129.

[1012] P. R. O., CO5-1357-130.

[1013] McD., Vol. VII, pp. 437-441.

[1014] Sains., Vol. IV, p. 226; P. R. O., CO5-1357-127.

[1015] McD., Vol. VII, pp. 437-441; Jour. H. of B., 1688, p. 13.

[1016] P. R. O., CO5-1355-313; Jour. H. of B., 1688, p. 29.

[1017] P. R. O., CO5-1357-218.

[1018] Jour. H. of B., 1688, pp. 82, 83.

[1019] Jour. H. of B., 1688, pp. 82, 83.

[1020] Jour, H. of B., 1688, p. 50.

[1021] Jour. H. of B., 1688, p. 116.

[1022] P. R. O., CO5-1357-248.

[1023] P. R. O., CO5-1357-38, 39.

[1024] Jour. H. of B., 1688, p. 8; McD., Vol. VII, pp. 437-441.

[1025] P. R. O., CO5-1357-229.

[1026] McD., Vol. VII, p. 316.

[1027] McD., Vol. VII, p. 316.

[1028] P. R. O., CO5-1357-236.

[1029] Sains., Vol. IV, p. 215.

[1030] P. R. O., CO5-1357-247, 248.

[1031] Sains., Vol. IV, pp. 233, 234.

[1032] Sains., Vol. IV, p. 243.

[1033] Sains., Vol. IV, p. 246.

[1034] Sains., Vol. IV, p. 254.

INDEX

Abigall, brings contagion, 46.

Accomac, see also Eastern Shore, 80;
  Berkeley flees to, 171;
   expedition against, 176, 177; 182; 184; 186; 195; 197.

Adam and Eve, ship, captures Bacon, 163; 177; 203.

Adams, Peter, excepted from pardon, 202.

Admirall, ship, 128, 129.

Allen, Arthur, 251, 253.

Allerton, Isaac, 229;
  corrupt bargain of, 230.

Anderson, William, 257.

Annelectons, aid in Susquehannock defeat, 160.

Apachisco, negotiates peace, 26.

Appomatocks, expedition against, 52.

Appomattox, river, 21.

Archer, Gabriel, admitted to Council, tries to establish a parliament, 6; 8;
  helps depose Smith, 10.

Argoll, Samuel, 19;
  enforces laws, 23;
  captures Pocahontas, 25.

Arlington, Earl of, grant to of Virginia, 123, 124;
  yields his rights, 125; 145; 245.

Arnold, Anthony, excepted from pardon, 202;
  hanged, 204.

Assembly, General, attempt to establish, 6;
  early desire for, 8;
  describes tyranny of Governors, 24;
  established, 1619, 36;
  convenes, 37;
  legislative powers of, 38;
  control over taxation, 39;
  judicial functions of, 40;
  Council the upper house of, 41; 42;
  describes Indian war, 51;
  supports Company, 60; 61;
  saved, 62;
  restored, 63; 64;
  Harvey usurps powers of, 72; 73;
  refuses tobacco contract, 74; 76;
  Council summons, 1636, 77;
  elects West Governor, 78; 79; 86;
  opposes revival of Company, 88; 91;
  persecutes Puritans, 92;
  acknowledges Charles II, 95;
  defies Parliament, 98;
  surrenders, 100; 102;
  Northampton petitions, 104; 105; 106; 107; 108;
  contest in, 109;
  elects Berkeley Governor, 110;
  Berkeley addresses, 111; 112; 115;
  encourages manufacture, 119; 122;
  protests to King, 124; 125; 133; 134;
  Long Assembly, 135; 136; 137; 138; 140; 143;
  erects forts, 151, 152;
  hatred of, 153;
  Berkeley dissolves, 1676, 158, 159;
  Bacon elected to, 162; 163;
  Bacon threatens, 168;
  liberal laws of, 169, 170;
  Bacon summons, 173;
  interrupted, 178; 204;
  supports Berkeley, 206, 207;
  protest of, 1677, 214;
  session of October, 1677, 218, 219;
  session of 1679, 222;
  rights of attacked, 226;
  session of 1682, 233;
  appeals to forbidden, 241, 242;
  petition of 242, 243;
  quarrels with Effingham over, taxation, 244, 245;
  quit-rents, 245, 246;
  veto power, 246, 247, 248, 249;
  the clerk, 249, 250.

Austin, Black, executed, 238.

Bacon, Nathaniel, the rebel, 123;
  accuses Burgesses, 133, 134;
  describes abuses of the rich, 135;
  Berkeley jealous of, 144; 145;
  character of, 154;
  becomes leader of rebels, 155;
  prepares to attack Indians, 156;
  attacks Indians, 157;
  proclaimed a rebel, 158;
  pursues Susquehannocks, 159;
  visits Occaneeches, 160;
  battle with Occaneechees, 161, 162;
  elected Burgess, 162;
  captured, 163;
  pardoned, 164;
  flees from Jamestown, 165;
  seizes Jamestown, 166;
  demands commission, 167;
  new demands of, 168;
  secures liberal laws, 169, 170;
  prepares new Indian expedition, 171;
  marches against Berkeley, 171;
  resolves to defy King, 172;
  forces oaths on prominent men, 173;
  attacks Pamunkeys, 174, 175;
  marches on Jamestown, 178, 179;
  repulses Berkeley's attack, 180;
  enters Jamestown, 181;
  burns Jamestown, 182;
  binds Gloucestermen, 183, 184;
  death of in October, 1676, 184; 186; 187;
  executive ability of, 190; 195; 196; 202; 222.

Bacon, Colonel Nathaniel, 108;
  cousin of the Rebel, 154;
  rebels at house of, 185; 189.

Bacon's Rebellion, see Bacon, 114; 121;
  interrupts Virginia charter, 126; 127; 135; 136; 139; 144;
  outbreak of, 155;
  events of, 155 to 194;
  collapses, 190;
  anarchy of, 191;
  results of, 223.

Bahama, Gulf of, fleet wrecked in, 9.

Ballard, Thomas, takes Bacon's oaths, 173;
  excluded from Council, 216; 229; 252.

Baltimore, Lord, (Cecilius Calvert) sends colonists to Maryland, 70; 71; 72; 118;
  prohibits cessation in Maryland, 122; 123; 238.

Baltimore, Lord, (George Calvert) colony of in Newfoundland, 68;
  secures Maryland patent, death of, 69.

Barrow, James, injustice to, 198.

Beale, Thomas, excepted from pardon, 203.

Bennett, Richard, invites Puritan preachers, 92;
  Governor, 103;
  appeases Northampton, 105;
  Burgesses rebuke, 106.

Berkeley, Lord John, 131; 201; 213;
  attacks King's commissioners, 215.

Berkeley, Sir William, 12;
  Governor, 84;
  character of, 85;
  just rule of, 86;
  equalizes taxes, 87;
  opposes Company, 88;
  conquers Indians, 90;
  loyalty of to King, 91;
  persecutes Puritans, 92;
  fears assassination, 94;
  speech of defying Parliament, 96, 97, 98;
  expedition against, 99;
  surrenders, 100;
  terms with Parliament, 101; 103;
  elected Governor, 1660, 110;
  speech of, 111;
  accepts office, 112;
  letter of to Charles II, 113; 114;
  becomes changed, 115;
  opposes Navigation Acts, 120;
  efforts for cessation, 122;
  Baltimore angers, 123;
  fears mutiny, 126, 127;
  prepares to attack Dutch, 1667, 128, 129;
  complains of freight rates, 131;
  controls elections, 133;
  corrupts Burgesses, 134;
  retains Long Assembly, 135, 136;
  controls local government, 137, 138, 139;
  evidence against partizan, 143;
  views upon government, 144, 145;
  sells arms to Indians, 147;
  recalls army, 151;
  wants defensive war, 152;
  quarrels with Bacon, 154;
  refuses Bacon a commission, 156;
  pursues Bacon, 157;
  proclaims Bacon a rebel, 158;
  dissolves Long Assembly, 158, 159;
  captures Bacon, 163;
  pardons Bacon, 164;
  Bacon escapes from, 165;
  Bacon seizes, 166;
  grants commission, 167;
  yields to Bacon, 168;
  tries to raise forces, 170;
  flees to Accomac, 171;
  rebels attack, 174;
  captures rebel fleet, 176, 177;
  captures Jamestown, 178;
  Bacon marches on, 179;
  repulsed, 180;
  flees, 181;
  sails for Accomac, 182;
  controls navy, 185;
  raids of on Western Shore, 186;
  expedition of to York River, 187, 188, 189, 190;
  offers Ingram pardon, 191;
  rebels surrender to, 191, 192;
  Charles II blames, 195;
  recalled, 196;
  illegal seizures of, 197, 198;
  angry at commissioners, 199, 200;
  refuses to leave, 201;
  proclamation of, 202, 203;
  continues executions, 203, 204;
  controls Assembly, 205, 206;
  dread of, 207;
  Jeffreys' proclamation angers, 209, 210;
  death of, 211;
  compared with Effingham, 252.

Berkeley, Lady, letter of to Moryson, 204; 208; 210; 220.

Bermuda Hundred, Dale founds, 21; 116.

Bermudas, Sea Adventure wrecked in, 9.

Berry, John, King's commissioner, 196;
  arrives, 199; 200;
  insulted, 208;
  returns to England, 215;
  influence of, 215, 216, 217.

Beverley, Robert, captures Hansford, 156;
  invades Gloucester, 187, 188;
  journals taken from, 213, 214;
  dismissed from office, 216; 217; 220;
  continued as Clerk of Assembly, 221;
  prosecution of, 235, 236, 237;
  alters bill, 248;
  Effingham censures, 249; 252; 253.

Black George, Harveys sails in, 79.

Bland, Gyles, complains of poll tax, 139;
  leads rebel fleet, 174; 176;
  captured, 177; 183;
  excepted from pardon, 202;
  executed, 203.

Bland, John, attacks Navigation Acts, 119.

Blayton, Thomas, excepted from pardon, 202.

Bowler, Thomas, excepted from pardon, 203.

Bray, Colonel, excluded from Council, 216; 220.

Brent, Gyles, pursues Indians, 146, 147; 149;
  joins Pamunkey expedition, 174;
  marches against Bacon, 182;
  his forces flee, 183.

Brick House, rebel forces at, 193.

Bristol, conferences on board of, 200.

Bristow, Major, 188, 189.

Buck, Rev., preaches at Jamestown, 17;
  prayer of, 37.

Butler, Nathaniel, describes mortality in Virginia, 12;
  attacks London Company, 56.

Byrd, William, 229.

Calvert, Cecilius, see Lord Baltimore.

Calvert, George, see Lord Baltimore.

Calvert, Leonard, Governor of Maryland, 70;
  war with Claiborne, 71.

Carter, John, 229.

Carver, William, commands rebel fleet, 174;
  visits Berkeley, 176;
  captured and hanged, 177; 183; 222.

Causie, beats off Indians, 49.

Cessation, of tobacco planting, attempts to secure, 121, 122, 123;
  asked, 1682, 232;
  Burgesses eager for, 233; 238; 239.

Chanco, reveals Indian plot, 48.

Charles I, 42;
  his plans for Virginia, 62;
  calls Assembly, 1627, 63; 65; 66;
  grants Maryland charter, 69; 70;
  asks tobacco contract, 74;
  angered at Virginians, 78;
  restores Harvey, 79; 80;
  forgets Harvey case, 82; 85;
  Virginians' loyalty pleases, 88; 90; 94;
  executed, 95; 97; 102; 111.

Charles II, 40; 85;
  proclaimed King, 1649, 89;
  Virginians cling to, 98; 101; 110;
  reappoints Berkeley, 113;
  oppresses Virginia, 115;
  approves Navigation Acts, 117; 119; 120;
  forbids cessation, 121;
  blind to disaffection in Virginia, 123;
  makes Arlington-Culpeper grant, 124;
  grants new Virginia patent, 126; 140;
  Bacon's Rebellion alarms, 195;
  sends commission to Virginia, 196; 199; 200;
  anger of at Berkeley, 210; 211;
  angry at Assembly, 214, 215; 224; 225; 226; 227;
  death of, 243.

Charles City, county, complains of Berkeley, 136;
  charges of corruption in, 138; 142;
  petition from, 153;
  people of take arms, 154;
  electoral frauds in, 205; 216.

Charters:--the royal charter of 1606, 2; 31;
  provisions of, 34; 57;
  the royal charter of 1609, Sandys draws up, 8;
  Governors disregard, 24; 31;
  gives Company control of colony, 35;
  the popular charter of 1612, 35; 54;
  James I attacks, 56, 57;
  revoked, 59, 60;
  the proposed charter of 1621, 54;
  Maryland charter, Baltimore secures, 69:
  new Virginia charter, 124, 125.

Cheesman, Major, captured, 186;
  death of, 187.

Chesapeake Bay, first fleet enters, 1; 3;
  Capt. Smith explores, 7; 70;
  naval war in, 71;
  Dutch fleet enters, 1667, 128;
  battle with Dutch in, 1672, 129, 130; 146; 171.

Chicheley, Sir Henry, commands Indian forces, 1676, 151;
  acting Governor, 1678, 221;
  holds fair election, 222; 230;
  defies Burgesses, 233; 234; 235; 236; 237; 238.

Chickahominies, peace with, 26;
  expedition against, 52.

Chiles, Colonel, 106.

Claiborne, William, in England, 69;
  makes war on Maryland, 71; 107.

Clovell, killed by Indians, 14.

Cockatrice, Marylanders capture, 71.

Commissions:--commission to investigate Company, 56;
  unfavorable report, 57:
  commission in Virginia, 1624, 60; 61; 64;
  Mandeville commission, for Virginia affairs, 61;
  abolished, 62;
  Parliamentary commission, to reduce Virginia, 99;
  secures surrender, 100;
  grants favorable terms, 101;
  establishes new government, 102;
  taxes Northampton, 104; 105:
  King's commission of 1676-1677, to receive Virginia grievances, 121, 122; 127;
  thinks poll tax unjust, 139; 142;
  hostile to Berkeley, 143; 144; 177; 184;
  appointment of, 196;
  Berkeley angry at, 199, 200;
  conference of with Berkeley, 200, 201;
  wants King's pardon published, 202;
  Assembly snubs, 206;
  leads opposition
  party, 207;
  insulted, 208;
  reports Berkeley's disobedience, 210;
  receives grievances, 212, 213;
  seizes journals, 213, 214;
  report of, 215;
  Virginia commission to Maryland, to secure cessation, 122.

Commonwealth of England, 85; 86;
  defied by Berkeley, 96;
  sends expedition to Virginia, 99;
  Virginia surrenders to, 100; 103.

Commonwealth Period, 42;
  government of Virginia during, 102; 110;
  ended, 114; 115; 116.

Commons of Virginia, see Middle Class.

Conway, Captain, Dutch take shallop of, 127, 128.

Council, resident in England, King appoints, 2;
  warning of, 10;
  determination of, 31; 34.

Council of State, of Commonwealth, 95;
  warns Berkeley, 96;
  sends expedition to Virginia, 99; 100; 102; 103;
  letter from, 108.

Council of Virginia; 1606-1610, great powers of, 2;
  selections for, 3;
  discord in, 3, 4;
  disruption of, 4;
  deposes Wingfield, 4, 5;
  tyranny of, 5;
  reduced to two, 7;
  abolished, 8;
  acts to depose Smith, 10; 34;
  1610-1619, an advisory body, 17;
  1619-1689, part of Assembly, 36; 37; 39;
  powers of, 41;
  Indians kill six of, 50;
  sympathizes with Company, 60;
  punishes Sharpless, 61; 62; 63; 64;
  Harvey wishes to restrain, 65;
  quarrels with Harvey, 67, 68;
  gets rid of Baltimore, 69; 70;
  hostile to Maryland, 71; 72;
  threatens Harvey, 73; 74; 75;
  arrests Harvey, 76;
  expels Harvey, 77;
  revised, 80; 86; 87; 93; 100;
  agreement of with Commonwealth, 101;
  elected by Burgesses, 1652, 102; 105;
  contest with Burgesses, 106;
  Burgesses dismiss, 107;
  seeks lost power, 108;
  assumes authority, 109; 129;
  submission of to Berkeley, 133; 137;
  praises Berkeley, 143, 144;
  Bacon appointed to, 164;
  Bacon coerces, 168; 169; 200; 201; 217; 220; 228; 229;
  prosecutes Beverley, 235, 236, 237;
  quarrel of over Bill of Ports, 247, 248, 249;

Courts, Council sits as a court, 34; 35;
  Assembly acts as a court, 40; 41;
  Governor's misuse of, 66; 78; 79;
  Harvey master of, 80; 81;
  Berkeley does not abuse, 86; 133;
  local courts, 137;
  Berkeley controls, 138;
  judicial functions of Assembly abolished, 241, 242.

Coventry, Secretary, 207;
  letter of to Berkeley, 210, 211;
  protects King's commissioners, 215; 221; 225.

Crimson, Abraham, captures tobacco fleet, 127, 128, 129.

Cromwell, Oliver, 102;
  neglects Virginia, 103; 107;
  death of, 108.

Cromwell, Richard, Lord Protector, 108;
  resigns, 109.

Curls of the River, 24.

Dale, Sir Thomas, Deputy-Governor, 1611, 19;
  founds Henrico, 19, 21;
  secures corn crop, 22;
  educates Pocahontas, 25;
  returns to England, 27; 35; 36.

Davies, Somerset, 238.

De la Warr, Thomas Lord, first Governor, 8; 11;
  prevents desertion of Virginia, 16;
  assumes government, 17;
  restores prosperity, 17, 18;
  becomes ill, 18, 19; 22; 23;
  brings new constitution, dies at sea, 1618, 35; 64.

Denis, Robert, commands fleet to Virginia, 99.

Devil's Island, colonists wrecked on, 10; 16; 22.

DeVries, describes sickness, 12.

Digges, Edward, Governor, 106.

Discovery, sails for Virginia, 1, 11.

Doeg, Indians, 146, 147.

Drew, Colonel, rebel leader, 185.

Drummond, William, Bacon visits, 163;
  Berkeley excepts from pardon, 178; 182; 190;
  captured, 193;
  executed, 194.

Duke of York, ship, 236.

Dutch, 85;
  take Virginia tobacco, 96, 98; 100;
  on the Eastern Shore, 104; 105; 114; 115;
  contest carrying trade, 116;
  cut off from tobacco trade, 117; 118; 119;
  capture tobacco fleet, 1667, 127, 128, 129;
  battle with in Chesapeake Bay, 1672, 129, 130; 131; 132; 142; 145; 172.

Dysentery, epidemic of in Virginia, 11; 15;
  De la Warr suffers from 19;
  Bacon dies of, 184.

Earleton, Stephen, excepted from pardon, 202.

Eastern Shore, see also Accomac, ill affected, 103;
  grievances of, 104;
  disorders of suppressed, 105;
  Berkeley flees to, 171;
  expedition against, 174, 176, 177;
  Berkeley returns to, 182; 184; 186; 197; 236.

Elizabeth, frigate, captured by Dutch, 127, 128, 129.

Elizabeth, river, merchantmen escape into, 1667, 128.

Elizabeth City, 66; 67;
  temporary capital, 80.

English Church, desire to extend, 31;
  to convert Indians, 44; 48;
  large planters adhere to, 91.

English Revolution, 40; 42;
  a victory for Virginia, 256, 257.

Epidemics, see Sickness.

Fairfax, Thomas, 196.

Famines, frequent, 2;
  Indians and epidemics cause, 14;
  misery of described, 15;
  eliminated on upper James, 23;
  English bring on Indians, 51, 52.

Farrar, William, 76.

Farrar's Island, see Henrico.

Farrill, Hubert, Bacon entrusted to, 163;
  attacks Bacon's House, 189; killed, 190.

Fees, limited, 87.

First Supply, Newport brings, 6.

Fitzhugh, William, 229. [** missing page?]

Gardner, Captain, fights Dutch, 130;
  captures Bacon, 163.

Gates, Sir Thomas, first Lieutenant-Governor, 8;
  wrecked in Bermudas, 9; 10;
  ends first royal government, 10;
  to abandon Virginia, 16;
  returns, Councillor, 17; 19;
  again in Virginia, 21;
  posts laws, 1610, 22; 27; 35.

George, takes tobacco to England, 28.

Gloucester, county, Berkeley active in, 170; 171;
  Bacon in, 182;
  Bacon coerces, 183, 184;
  Bacon dies in, 184; 185;
  military movements in, 187, 188, 189; 190; 207;
  plant-cutting in, 234, 235; 237; 238.

Goodrich, Thomas, excepted from pardon, 202.

Goodspeed, sails for Virginia, 1; 11.

Gosnold, Bartholomew, made Councillor, 3;
  death of, 4.

Grantham, Captain, envoy to Ingram, 191;
  secures surrender of rebels, 192.

Green Spring, 159; 182;
  rebels at, 185; 200;
  Assembly at, 205; 208; 213; 218.

Green Spring faction, 217;
  controls elections, 218; 219;
  activity of, 220;
  Culpeper supports, 228;
  pleads for Ludwell, 229; 253.

Grindon, Sara, excepted from pardon, 203.

Hamor, Ralph, 26; 49.

Hamor, Thomas, 49.

Hansford, Colonel, rebel leader, 185;
  captured and hanged, 186.

Harrison, Benjamin, 229.

Harrison, Thomas, becomes a Puritan, 92;
  expelled from his parish, 93; 95; 96.

Harvey, John, describes Indian war, 52;
  commissioner to Virginia, 60;
  Governor, 64;
  attacks Pott, 65; 66;
  quarrels with Council, 67;
  wants greater power, 68;
  aids Marylanders, 70;
  arbitrary rule of, 72; 73;
  seizes a servant, 73;
  detains letter to King, 74;
  arrests rioters, 75;
  Council arrests, 76;
  expelled from Virginia, 77;
  in England, 78;
  reinstated, 79;
  tyranny of, 80;
  seizes Matthews' estate, 81;
  attacked in England, 82;
  removed, 83;
  prosecuted, 84; 85; 86.

Harwood, Thomas, envoy to England, 1636, 78; 79.

Henrico, county, Bacon resides in, 154;
  Berkeley in, 159;
  Bacon Burgess from, 162;
  Bacon flees to, 165; 174; 178.

Henrico, plantation, Dale founds, 19, 21; 22; 24; 43;
  college of, 44.

Hill, Edward, deprived of office, 216; 220.

Holden, Robert, excepted from pardon, 202.

Holland, see Dutch.

Hopton, Lord, 124.

Indians, a menace, 2;
  attack Jamestown, 13;
  destroy corn, 14; 15; 16;
  war with continues, 18;
  Dale seeks stronghold against, 19;
  driven from Bermuda Hundred, 21;
  peace with, 25; 26; 27;
  destroy iron works, 43;
  college for, 44;
  friendship of, 47;
  plan massacre, 48;
  massacre of 1622, 49; 50;
  war with, 50 to 54; 56;
  long peace with, 88;
  massacre of 1644, 89;
  make peace, 90; 91;
  conspiracy of rumored, 104; 122;
  raid of, 1675, 146;
  war with, 147, 149, 150, 152;
  kill Bacon's overseer, 155;
  Bacon prepares to attack, 156;
  war with, 157 to 162; 167;
  again on war path, 170;
  Bacon again attacks, 175 to 176; 178.

Ingram, General, election of, 184;
  disposes rebel forces, 185;
  captures Pate's House, 188;
  rebel army surrenders to, 189;
  his lack of executive ability, 190;
  his surrender, 191; 193; 206.

Isle of Wight, county, 136;
  complaints from, 138; 140; 143;
  subdued, 190; 207.

Isles, John, executed, 203.

James, ship, 231.

