LIBRARY TRACT, No. 10

Revised Edition of Tract No. 1

WHY DO WE NEED A PUBLIC LIBRARY?

MATERIAL FOR A LIBRARY CAMPAIGN

Compiled by CHALMERS HADLEY Sec'y American Library Association

AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION PUBLISHING BOARD 1 WASHINGTON STREET, CHICAGO 1910

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLICATIONS OF THE

AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION

PUBLISHING BOARD

Postage on book publications extra

Guide to reference books, by Alice B. Kroeger.
  New and enlarged edition. Cloth, $1.50.

Literature of American history; edited by J. N.
  Larned. Cloth, $6.00. Supplements for 1902,
  1903, paper, each $1; for 1904, 25c.

A. L. A. Index to general literature. Cloth, $10.

A. L. A. Index to portraits. $3.

A. L. A. Catalog. Paper, $1.

A. L. A. Catalog rules. Cloth, 60c.

A. L. A. Booklist (monthly, 10 numbers) $1 a year

List of subject headings for use in dictionary catalogs.
  Cloth, $2.

Books for girls and women and their clubs.
  Paper, 25c. Also issued in five parts, small
  size, 5c. each.

Reading for the young, with supplement. Sheets,
  $1.

Books for boys and girls, by Caroline M. Hewins.
  Paper, 15c. $5 per 100.

Children's reading. Paper, 25c.

Small library buildings. Paper, $1.25.

Library buildings, by W. R. Eastman. Paper, 10c. Not only will the reading and thinking part
of the people thereby be reached, but any library editorial appearing in a newspaper, will,
because of the public notice given it, receive greater consideration than if printed elsewhere.
Library Commission workers and library supporters in general, have felt the need of printed
material which could be made immediately available in a library campaign. Most library addresses
and articles are too long, too scholarly in treatment or have lacked that crisp style necessary
for use in the press.

Editors of newspapers are slow to accept for printing, signed editorials which have seen service
elsewhere. It is suggested that the material here compiled be made as local as possible in
its application to individual communities, and that the editorials be sent to newspapers unsigned
by the original writers. The same editorials should not be sent to neighboring communities,
at least in their original form. Every attempt should be made to have them appear as fresh
and spontaneous as possible. Different editorials should always be sent the several papers
in the same city.

The material here compiled is suggestive and sufficiently comprehensive to meet ordinary conditions.
Much valuable material has been taken from circulars sent out by the Library Commissions of
Oregon, Wisconsin and Iowa.

No better advice could be given in opening a public library campaign through the public press
than the following, in the Wisconsin Free Library Commission Circular of Information, No. 5:

1 Citizens of ---- believe in free public libraries. They need organization and courage to
attack local problems rather than long homilies on the value of good literature.

2 Public sentiment needs time to ripen. Frequent short articles running through the issues
of a few weeks are better than a few long ones.

3 Make the articles breezy, optimistic, with local application. You can get a library if you
are in earnest.

4 Appeal to local pride. Civic patriotism is the basis of civic improvement. Give the names
of familiar towns of similar size which have good libraries.

5 Do not rely solely on editorials. Get brief communications from citizens, but have each letter
make only one point, and that crisply.

6 Do not waste space rebutting trivial arguments. Refute them by affirmative statements.

7 Get brief interviews with visitors from towns where they have good libraries, and with your
own townsmen who have visited neighboring libraries.

8 Keep this fact in mind--Your people want a library and only need pluck and a leader.

9 Remember that the worst enemy of the movement is the talker who wants a library very much,
in the "sweet bye and bye," when all other public improvements are completed.

10 When it is time to strike--strike hard. Apologies and faint hearts never won any kind of
a contest.

CHALMERS HADLEY, Secretary American Library Association.

WHAT A PUBLIC LIBRARY DOES FOR A COMMUNITY

1 It doubles the value of the education the child receives in school, and, best of all, imparts
a desire for knowledge which serves as an incentive to continue his education after leaving
school; and, having furnished the incentive, it further supplies the means for a life-long
continuance of education.

2 It provides for the education of adults who have lacked, or failed to make use of, early
opportunities.

3 It furnishes information to teachers, ministers, journalists, physicians, legislators, all
persons upon whose work depend the intellectual, moral, sanitary and political welfare and
advancement of the people.

4 It furnishes books and periodicals for the technical instruction and information of mechanics,
artisans, manufacturers, engineers and all others whose work requires technical knowledge--of
all persons upon whom depends the industrial progress of the city.

5 It is of incalculable benefit to the city by affording to thousands the highest and purest
entertainment, and thus lessening crime and disorder.

6 It makes the city a more desirable place of residence, and thus retains the best citizens
and attracts others of the same character.

7 More than any other agency, it elevates the general standard of intelligence throughout the
great body of the community, upon which its material prosperity, as well as its moral and political
well-being, must depend.

Finally, the public library includes potentially all other means of social betterment. A library
is a living organism, having within itself the capacity of infinite growth and reproduction.
It may found a dozen museums and hospitals, kindle the train of thought that produces beneficent
inventions, and inspire to noble deeds of every kind, all the while imparting intelligence
and inculcating industry, thrift, morality, public spirit and all those qualities that constitute
the wealth and well-being of a community.

F. M. CRUNDEN.

WHAT A FREE LIBRARY DOES FOR A COUNTRY TOWN

1 It keeps boys at home in the evening by giving them well-written stories of adventure.

2 It gives teachers and pupils interesting books to aid their school work in history and geography,
and makes better citizens of them by enlarging their knowledge of their country and its growth.

3 It provides books on the care of children and animals, cookery and housekeeping, building
and gardening, and teaches young readers how to make simple dynamos, telephones and other machines.

4 It helps clubs that are studying history, literature or life in other countries, and throws
light upon Sunday-school lessons.

5 It furnishes books of selections for reading aloud, suggestions for entertainments and home
amusements, and hints on correct speech and good manners.

6 It teaches the names and habits of the plants, birds and insects of the neighborhood, and
the differences in soil and rock.

7 It tells the story of the town from its settlement, and keeps a record of all important events
in its history.

8 It offers pleasant and wholesome stories to readers of all ages.

CAROLINE M. HEWINS.

W. I. FLETCHER.

WHY WE NEED A LIBRARY

A public library in our community would be an influence for good every day in the week.

It would make the town more attractive to the class of people we want as residents and neighbors.

It would mould the characters of the children in our homes.

A good library would get gifts from wealthy citizens. No other public institution offers so
fitting an opportunity for a public-spirited citizen to help his neighbors and win their approval
and affection.

A library in ---- would be the center of our intellectual life and would stimulate the growth
of all kinds of clubs for study and debating.

It is a great part of our education to know how to find facts. No man knows everything, but
the man who knows how to find an indispensable fact quickly has the best substitute for such
knowledge. We need a library to carry forward in a better manner the education of the children
who leave school; to give them a better chance for self-education. We need it to give thoughts
and inspiration to the teachers of the people, those who in the schoolroom or pulpit, on the
rostrum, or with the pen attempt to instruct or lead their fellow citizens. We need it to help
our mechanics in their employments, to give them the best thoughts of the best workers in their
lines, whether these thoughts come in books or papers or magazines.

WISCONSIN FREE LIBRARY COMMISSION.

The public library is an adult school; it is a perpetual and life-long continuation class;
it is the greatest educational factor that we have; and the librarian is becoming our most
important teacher and guide.

SIR WALTER BESANT.

WHAT A LIBRARY DOES FOR A TOWN

1 Completes its educational equipment, carrying on and giving permanent value to the work of
the schools.

2 Gives the children of all classes a chance to know and love the best in literature. Without
the public library such a chance is limited to the very few.

3 Minimizes the sale and reading of vicious literature in the community, thus promoting mental
and moral health.

4 Effects a great saving in money to every reader in the community. The library is the application
of common sense to the problem of supply and demand. Through it every reader in the town can
secure at a given cost from 100 to 1000 times the material for reading or study that he could
secure by acting individually.

5 Appealing to all classes, sects and degrees of intelligence, it is a strong unifying factor
in the life of a town.

6 The library is the one thing in which every town, however poor or isolated, can have something
as good and inspiring as the greatest city can offer. Neither Boston nor New York can provide
better books to its readers than the humblest town library can easily own and supply.

7 Slowly but inevitably raises the intellectual tone of a place.

8 Adds to the material value of property. Real estate agents in the suburbs of large cities
never fail to advertise the presence of a library, if there be one, as giving added value to
the lots or houses they have for sale.

A. W. in NEW YORK LIBRARIES.

HELPFUL THINGS DONE BY LIBRARIES FOR TEACHERS AND CHILDREN

1 Graded lists (sometimes annotated) of books suitable for children are printed as part of
the library's finding lists.

2 Bulletins of books for special days are printed.

3 Lists of books on special subjects are printed.

4 Topics being studied in the schools are illustrated by special exhibits at the libraries.

5 Study rooms in the libraries are maintained for the pupils of the high schools and the higher
grammar grades.

6 Children's or young people's rooms are maintained at the libraries, where the children may
come into personal contact with a trained children's librarian and with hundreds of books on
open shelves.

7 Story hours or readings for children are conducted at the libraries.

8 Training in reference work, in the use of books and libraries, in the use of finding lists,
card catalogs, indexes, etc., is given by library assistants: (a) to teachers at the library;
(b) at the library to individual pupils and classes that come there; (c) at the schools to
the pupils in their rooms.

9 Lectures on classification, bibliographies, and catalogs are given by members of the library
staff for teachers and normal school students.

10 Special study rooms for teachers are provided.

11 Special educational collections are shelved for use by the teachers.

12 Cases of about 50 books (traveling libraries as it were) are prepared by libraries and sent
to schoolrooms to remain for a year or less, teachers to issue books for home use.

13 Branch reading--and delivery--rooms are opened in schools, in charge of library assistants,
with supply of books on hand for circulation and facilities for drawing others from the main
library.

14 Assistant librarians are placed in charge of work with schools.

15 In large cities complete branch libraries are established in schools on the outskirts of
the cities.

16 Special collections of books are furnished to vacation schools.

17 Special cards are issued to teachers on which they may draw more than the usual number of
volumes at a time.

18 Teachers and principals are allowed to draw a number of volumes for (a) reading by children
at school; (b) reading by children at home.

PUBLIC LIBRARIES.

LIBRARIES, A PUBLIC BENEFACTION

A library is not a luxury; it is not for the cultured few; it is not merely for the scientific;
it is not for any intellectual cult or exclusive literary set. It is a great, broad, universal
public benefaction. It lifts the entire community; it is the right arm of the intellectual
development of the people, ministering to the wants of those who are already educated and spreading
a universal desire for education. It is the upper story of the public school system, while
it is a broad field wherein ripe scholars may find a fuller training for their already highly
developed faculties. It is above all a splendid instrument for the education and culture of
those vast masses of boys and girls that are denied the high privileges of the systematic training
of the schools.

C. C. THACH.

The function of the library as an institution of society, is the development and enrichment
of human life in the entire community by bringing to all the people the books that belong to them.

SALOME CUTLER FAIRCHILD.

MEANING OF THE PUBLIC LIBRARY

Cities and towns are now for the first time, and chiefly in this country, erecting altars to
the gods of good fellowship, joy and learning. These altars are our public libraries. We had
long ago our buildings of city and state, our halls of legislation, our courts of justice.
But these all speak more or less of wrongdoing, of justice and injustice, of repression. Most
of them touch on partisanship and bitterness of feeling. We have had, since many centuries,
in all our cities, the many meeting places of religious sects--our chapels, churches and cathedrals.
They stand for so much that is good, but they have not brought together the communities in
which they are placed. A church is not always the center of the best life of all who live within
the shadow of its spire.

For several generations we have been building temples to the gods of learning and good citizenship--our
schools. And they have come nearer to bringing together for the highest purpose the best impulses
of all of us than have any other institutions. But they are all not yet, as some day they will
be, for both old and young. Then they speak of discipline, of master and pupil, instead only
of pure and simple fellowship in studies.

And so we are for the first time in all history, building, in our public libraries, temples
of happiness and wisdom common to us all. No other institution which society has brought forth
is so wide in its scope; so universal in its appeal; so near to every one of us; so inviting
to both young and old; so fit to teach, without arrogance, the ignorant and, without faltering,
the wisest.

