It is this ideal that is daily attracting larger numbers of Jews, as well as Gentiles; and
all attempts to hinder the realization thereof, like the present nationalistic movement, will
be swept away by the storm that precedes the birth of the new era--mankind clasped in universal
brotherhood.

Mine Owners' Revenge

BY M. B.

+Charles H. Moyer+, President of the Western Federation of Miners, William D. Haywood, Secretary
of that organization, and G. A. Pettibone, former member of the same, were arrested in Denver,
February 17th.

They are accused of having participated in the murder of the ex-Governor of Idaho, Mr. Steunenberg.
Various other arrests have taken place in Cripple Creek and Haines, Oregon.

The events during and after the arrest leave no doubt that the authorities of Colorado and
Idaho are in the most beautiful accord in their attempt to kill the Miners' Union. This accord
and harmony is so apparent that thoughtful citizens cannot fail to see that the governments
of Colorado and Idaho are aiding in the conspiracy of the mine owners against the miners.

Requisition papers and a special train seem to have been prepared in advance, for immediately
after the arrest they were expelled and taken to Boise City, Idaho, and within a few moments
the whole matter was settled by the authorities of Colorado, not even pretending to show the
slightest fairness. Nor did they display the least desire to investigate the grounds upon which
requisition papers were granted. This process usually takes several days. In the case of Moyer,
Haywood and Pettibone a few moments sufficed to close the whole proceedings.

Since the papers were issued before the arrest, it is not at all unlikely that the death sentence
has already been decided upon. Optimists in the labor movement maintain that a repetition of
the legal murder of 1887, that has caused shame and horror even in the ranks of the upper ten
thousand, is impossible--that the authorities would shrink from such an outrage, such an awful
crime. That which has happened in Colorado and Idaho warrants no such hope.

The evidence against the leaders of the Western Federation of Miners consists largely of one
individual, who is supposed to have known and witnessed everything. The gentleman seems to
fairly long for the moment when he can take the witness stand and furnish the material that
the District Attorney needs to prove the guilt of the accused. An expert perjurer, it seems.

The Governor of Idaho, Mr. Gooding, has already given him a good character. The man acknowledged
his firm belief in the existence of a Supreme Being, which touched the governor's heart deeply.
Does he not know that it has ever been the mission of the Supreme Being to serve as Impresario
to Falsehood and Wretchedness?

The accusation against the three prisoners is the best affidavit of the miner magnates of the
courageous stand of the Western Federation of Miners during the reign of terror of the money
powers. For years everything was done to disrupt them, but without results. The latest outrage
is a renewed and desperate attack on that labor organization. Are the working people of America
going to look on coolly at a repetition of the Black Friday in Chicago? Perhaps there will
also be a labor leader, á la Powderly, who will be willing to carry faggots to the stake? Or
are they going to awaken from their lethargy, ere America becomes thoroughly Russified?

INTERNATIONAL REVIEW

+A painting+ from the "good old times" represents two peasants wrangling about a cow. One holds
on to the horns of the animal, the other tightly clutches its tail, a third figure is in a
crouched position underneath. It is the lawyer milking the cow, while the other two are quarreling.
Here we have the beauty of the representative system. While groups are bargaining about their
rights, their official advisers and lawmakers are skimming the cream off the milk. Not justice,
but social injustice is the incentive of these worthy gentlemen.

Human justice, and legal representation thereof, are two different things. One who seeks for
a representation places his rights in the hands of another. He does not struggle for them himself,
he must wait for a decision thereupon from such quarters as are never inspired by love for
justice, but by personal gain and profit.

The working people are beginning to recognize this. It is also beginning to dawn upon them
that they will have to be their own liberators. They have the power to refuse their material
support to a society that degrades them into a state of slavery. This power was already recognized
in 1789, when, at the French National Convention, Mirabeau thundered: "Look out! Do not enrage
the common people, who produce everything, who only need to fold their arms to terrify you!"

The General Strike is still at the beginning of its activity. It has gone through the fire
in Russia. In Spain and Italy it has helped to demolish the belief in the sovereignity of Property
and the State.

Altogether the General Strike idea, though relatively young, has made a deeper impression on
friend and foe than several million votes of the working people could have achieved. Indeed,
it is no joke for the pillars of society. What, if the workers, conscious of their economic
power, cease to store up great wealth in the warehouses of the privileged? It was not difficult
to get along with the would-be labor leaders in the legislative bodies, these worthy ones,
experienced through the practice of manufacturing laws to maintain law and disorder, rapidly
develop into good supporters of the existing conditions.

Now, however, the workingmen have entered upon the battlefield themselves, refusing their labor,
which has always been the foundation of the golden existence of the haute volée. They demand
the possibility to so organize production and distribution as to make it impossible for the
minority to accumulate outrageous wealth, and to guarantee to each economic well-being.

The expropriateurs are in danger of expropriation. Capitalism has expropriated the human race,
the General Strike aims to expropriate capitalism.

A new and invigorating breath of life is also felt in this country, through the formation of
the "Industrial Workers of the World." It awakens the hope of a transformation of the present
trade-union methods. In their present form they serve the money powers more than the working class.

       *       *       *       *       *

+Robert Koch+, the world-renowned scientist, who was awarded the Nobel prize in recognition
of his work in the direction of exterminating tuberculosis, delivered a lecture at Stockholm
at the time of receiving the mark of distinction. In the course of his speech he said: "We
may not conceal the fact, that the struggle against tuberculosis requires considerable sums
of money. It is really only a question of money. The greater the number of free places for
consumptives in well-equipped and well-conducted hospitals, the better the families of these
are supported, so that the sick are not prevented from going to these hospitals on account
of the care of their relations; and the oftener such places are established, the more rapidly
tuberculosis will cease to be a common disease."

Where are the governments which are supposed to serve as benefactors of suffering mankind?
They have milliards at their disposal, but use most of it for the maintenance of armies, bureaucracies,
police forces. With these vast sums, which they extort from the people, they increase instead
of diminish suffering.

       *       *       *       *       *

