19. She went to a very learned man, and a very great servant of God, of the Order of St. Dominic,
[7] to whom she gave an account of all this matter.  This was even before the Provincial had
withdrawn his consent; for in this place we had no one who would give us advice; and so they
said that it all proceeded solely from our obstinacy.  That lady gave an account of everything,
and told the holy man how much she received from the property of her husband.  Having, a great
desire that he would help us,--for he was the most learned man here, and there are few in his
Order more learned than he,--I told him myself all we intended to do, and some of my motives.
I never said a word of any revelation whatever, speaking only of the natural reasons which
influenced me; for I would not have him give an opinion otherwise than on those grounds.  He
asked us to give him eight days before he answered, and also if we had made up our minds to
abide by what he might say.  I said we had; but though I said so, and though I thought so,
I never lost a certain confidence that the monastery would be founded.  My friend had more
faith than I; nothing they could say could make her give it up.  As for myself, though, as
I said, it seemed to me impossible that the work should be finally abandoned, yet my belief
in the truth of the revelation went no further than in so far as it was not against what is
contained in the sacred writings, nor against the laws of the Church, which we are bound to
keep.  Though the revelation seemed to me to have come really from God, yet, if that learned
man had told me that we could not go on without offending God and going against our conscience,
I believe I should have given it up, and looked out for some other way; but our Lord showed
me no other way than this.

20. The servant of God told me afterwards that he had made up his mind to insist on the abandonment
of our project, for he had already heard the popular cry: moreover, he, as everybody did, thought
it folly; and a certain nobleman also, as soon as he knew that we had gone to him, had sent
him word to consider well what he was doing, and to give us no help; that when he began to
consider the answer he should make us, and to ponder on the matter, the object we had in view,
our manner of life, and the Order, he became convinced that it was greatly for the service
of God, and that we must not give it up.  Accordingly, his answer was that we should make haste
to settle the matter.  He told us how and in what way it was to be done; and if our means were
scanty, we must trust somewhat in God.  If anyone made any objections, they were to go to him--he
would answer them; and in this way he always helped us, as I shall show by and by. [8]

21. This answer was a great comfort to us; so also was the conduct of certain holy persons
who were usually against us: they were now pacified, and some of them even helped us.  One
of them was the saintly nobleman [9] of whom I spoke before; [10] he looked on it--so, indeed,
it was--as a means of great perfection, because the whole foundation was laid in prayer.  He
saw also very many difficulties before us, and no way out of them,--yet he gave up his own
opinion, and admitted that the work might be of God.  Our Lord Himself must have touched his
heart, as He also did that of the doctor, the priest and servant of God, to whom, as I said
before, [11] I first spoke, who is an example to the whole city,--being one whom God maintains
there for the relief and progress of many souls: he, too, came now to give us his assistance.

22. When matters had come to this state, and always with the help of many prayers, we purchased
a house in a convenient spot; and though it was small, I cared not at all for that, for our
Lord had told me to go into it as well as I could,--that I should see afterwards what He would
do; and how well I have seen it!  I saw, too, how scanty were our means; and yet I believed
our Lord would order these things by other ways, and be gracious unto us.

1. See ch. v. section 14, ch. vi. section 1.

2. Ch. xxxi. section 3.

3. In 1558 (De la Fuente).

4. This was said by Maria de Ocampo, niece of St. Teresa, then living in the monastery of the
Incarnation, but not a religious; afterwards Maria Bautista, Prioress of the Carmelites at
Valladolid (Ribera, i. 7).

5.

6. The Provincial of the Carmelites: F. Angel de Salasar (De la Fuente).

7. F. Pedro Ibanez (De la Fuente).

8. Ch. xxxiii. section 8.

9. Francis de Salcedo.

10. Ch. xxiii. section 6.

11. Gaspar Daza.  See ch. xxiii. section 6.

Chapter XXXIII.

The Foundation of the Monastery Hindered.  Our Lord Consoles the Saint.

1. When the matter was in this state--so near its conclusion, that on the very next day the
papers were to be signed--then it was that the Father Provincial changed his mind.  I believe
that the change was divinely ordered--so it appeared afterwards; for while so many prayers
were made, our Lord was perfecting His work and arranging its execution in another way.  When
the Provincial refused us, my confessor bade me forthwith to think no more of it, notwithstanding
the great trouble and distress which our Lord knows it cost me to bring it to this state. 
When the work was given up and abandoned, people were the more convinced that it was altogether
the foolishness of women; and the complaints against me were multiplied, although I had until
then this commandment of my Provincial to justify me.

2. I was now very much disliked throughout the whole monastery, because I wished to found another
with stricter enclosure. It was said I insulted my sisters; that I could serve God among them
as well as elsewhere, for there were many among them much better than I; that I did not love
the house, and that it would have been better if I had procured greater resources for it than
for another.  Some said I ought to be put in prison; others--but they were not many--defended
me in some degree.  I saw well enough that they were for the most part right, and now and then
I made excuses for myself; though, as I could not tell them the chief reason, which was the
commandment of our Lord, I knew not what to do, and so was silent.

3. In other respects God was most merciful unto me, for all this caused me no uneasiness; and
I gave up our design with much readiness and joy, as if it cost me nothing.  No one could believe
it, not even those men of prayer with whom I conversed; for they thought I was exceedingly
pained and sorry: even my confessor himself could hardly believe it.  I had done, as it seemed
to me, all that was in my power.  I thought myself obliged to do no more than I had done to
fulfil our Lord's commandment, and so I remained in the house where I was, exceedingly happy
and joyful; though, at the same time, I was never able to give up my conviction that the work
would be done.  I had now no means of doing it, nor did I know how or when it would be done;
but I firmly believed in its accomplishment.

4. I was much distressed at one time by a letter which my confessor wrote to me, as if I had
done anything in the matter contrary to his will.  Our Lord also must have meant that suffering
should not fail me there where I should feel it most; and so, amid the multitude of my persecutions,
when, as it seemed to me, consolations should have come from my confessor, he told me that
I ought to recognise in the result that all was a dream; that I ought to lead a new life by
ceasing to have anything to do for the future with it, or even to speak of it any more, seeing
the scandal it had occasioned.  He made some further remarks, all of them very painful.  This
was a greater affliction to me than all the others together.  I considered whether I had done
anything myself, and whether I was to blame for anything that was an offence unto God; whether
all my visions were illusions, all my prayers a delusion, and I, therefore, deeply deluded
and lost. This pressed so heavily upon me, that I was altogether disturbed and most grievously
distressed.  But our Lord, who never failed me in all the trials I speak of, so frequently
consoled and strengthened me, that I need not speak of it here.  He told me then not to distress
myself; that I had pleased God greatly, and had not sinned against Him throughout the whole
affair; that I was to do what my confessors required of me, and be silent on the subject till
the time came to resume it.  I was so comforted and so happy, that the persecution which had
befallen me seemed to be as nothing at all.

5. Our Lord now showed me what an exceedingly great blessing it is to be tried and persecuted
for His sake; for the growth of the love of God in my soul, which I now discerned, as well
as of many other virtues, was such as to fill me with wonder.  It made me unable to abstain
from desiring trials, and yet those about me thought I was exceedingly disheartened; and I
must have been so, if our Lord in that extremity had not succoured me with His great compassion.
Now was the beginning of those more violent impetuosities of the love of God of which I have
spoken before, [1] as well as of those profounder trances.  I kept silence, however, and never
spoke of those graces to any one. The saintly Dominican [2] was as confident as I was that
the work would be done; and as I would not speak of it, in order that nothing might take place
contrary to the obedience I owed my confessor, he communicated with my companion, and they
wrote letters to Rome and made their preparations.

6. Satan also contrived now that persons should hear one from another that I had had a revelation
in the matter; and people came to me in great terror, saying that the times were dangerous,
that something might be laid to my charge, and that I might be taken before the Inquisitors.
I heard this with pleasure, and it made me laugh, because I never was afraid of them; for I
knew well enough that in matters of faith I would not break the least ceremony of the Church,
that I would expose myself to die a thousand times rather than that any one should see me go
against it or against any truth of Holy Writ.  So I told them I was not afraid of that, for
my soul must be in a very bad state if there was anything the matter with it of such a nature
as to make me fear the Inquisition; I would go myself and give myself up, if I thought there
was anything amiss; and if I should be denounced, our Lord would deliver me, and I should gain
much.

7. I had recourse to my Dominican father; for I could rely upon him, because he was a learned
man.  He reassured me much, and, I think, profited himself; for though he was exceedingly good,
yet, from this time forth, he gave himself more and more to prayer, and retired to a monastery
of his Order which was very lonely, that he might apply himself more effectually to prayer,
where he remained more than two years.  He was dragged out of his solitude by obedience, to
his great sorrow: his superiors required his services; for he was a man of great ability. 
I, too, on my part, felt his retirement very much, because it was a great loss to me, though
I did not disturb him.  But I knew it was a gain to him; for when I was so much distressed
at his departure, our Lord bade me be comforted, not to take it to heart, for he was gone under
good guidance.

8. So, when he came back, his soul had made such great progress, and he was so advanced in
the ways of the spirit, that he told me on his return he would not have missed that journey
for anything in the world.  And I, too, could say the same thing; for where he reassured and
consoled me formerly by his mere learning, he did so now through that spiritual experience
he had gained of supernatural things.  And God, too, brought him here in time; for He saw that
his help would be required in the foundation of the monastery, which His Majesty willed should
be laid.

9. I remained quiet after this for five or six months, neither thinking nor speaking of the
matter; nor did our Lord once speak to me about it.  I know not why, but I could never rid
myself of the thought that the monastery would be founded.  At the end of that time, the then
Rector [3] of the Society of Jesus having gone away, His Majesty brought into his place another,
[4] of great spirituality, high courage, strong understanding, and profound learning, at the
very time when I was in great straits. As he who then heard my confession had a superior over
him--the fathers of the Society are extremely strict about the virtue of obedience and never
stir but in conformity with the will of their superiors,--so he would not dare, though he perfectly
understood my spirit, and desired the accomplishment of my purpose, to come to any resolution;
and he had many reasons to justify his conduct.  I was at the same time subject to such great
impetuosities of spirit, that I felt my chains extremely heavy; nevertheless, I never swerved
from the commandment he gave me.

10. One day, when in great distress, because I thought my confessor did not trust me, our Lord
said to me, Be not troubled; this suffering will soon be over.  I was very much delighted,
thinking I should die shortly; and I was very happy whenever I recalled those words to remembrance.
Afterwards I saw clearly that they referred to the coming of the rector of whom I am speaking,
for never again had I any reason to be distressed. The rector that came never interfered with
the father-minister who was my confessor.  On the contrary, he told him to console me,--that
there was nothing to be afraid of,--and not to direct me along a road so narrow, but to leave
the operations of the Spirit of God alone; for now and then it seemed as if these great impetuosities
of the spirit took away the very breath of the soul.

11. The rector came to see me, and my confessor bade me speak to him in all freedom and openness.
I used to feel the very greatest repugnance to speak of this matter; but so it was, when I
went into the confessional, I felt in my soul something, I know not what.  I do not remember
to have felt so either before or after towards any one.  I cannot tell what it was, nor do
I know of anything with which I could compare it.  It was a spiritual joy, and a conviction
in my soul that his soul must understand mine, that it was in unison with it, and yet, as I
have said, I knew not how.  If I had ever spoken to him, or had heard great things of him,
it would have been nothing out of the way that I should rejoice in the conviction that he would
understand me; but he had never spoken to me before, nor I to him, and, indeed, he was a person
of whom I had no previous knowledge whatever.

12. Afterwards, I saw clearly that my spirit was not deceived; for my relations with him were
in every way of the utmost service to me and my soul, because his method of direction is proper
for those persons whom our Lord seems to have led far on the way, seeing that He makes them
run, and not to crawl step by step. His plan is to render them thoroughly detached and mortified,
and our Lord has endowed him with the highest gifts herein as well as in many other things
beside.  As soon as I began to have to do with him, I knew his method at once, and saw that
he had a pure and holy soul, with a special grace of our Lord for the discernment of spirits.
He gave me great consolation. Shortly after I had begun to speak to him, our Lord began to
constrain me to return to the affair of the monastery, and to lay before my confessor and the
father-rector many reasons and considerations why they should not stand in my way.  Some of
these reasons made them afraid, for the father-rector never had a doubt of its being the work
of the Spirit of God, because he regarded the fruits of it with great care and attention. 
At last, after much consideration, they did not dare to hinder me. [5]

13. My confessor gave me leave to prosecute the work with all my might.  I saw well enough
the trouble I exposed myself to, for I was utterly alone, and able to do so very little.  We
agreed that it should be carried on with the utmost secrecy; and so I contrived that one of
my sisters, [6] who lived out of the town, should buy a house, and prepare it as if for herself,
with money which our Lord provided for us. [7]  I made it a great point to do nothing against
obedience; but I knew that if I spoke of it to my superiors all was lost, as on the former
occasion, and worse even might happen.  In holding the money, in finding the house, in treating
for it, in putting it in order, I had so much to suffer; and, for the most part, I had to suffer
alone, though my friend did what she could: she could do but little, and that was almost nothing.
Beyond giving her name and her countenance, the whole of the trouble was mine; and that fell
upon me in so many ways, that I am astonished now how I could have borne it. [8] Sometimes,
in my affliction, I used to say: O my Lord, how is it that Thou commandest me to do that which
seems impossible?--for, though I am a woman, yet, if I were free, it might be done; but when
I am tied in so many ways, without money, or the means of procuring it, either for the purpose
of the Brief or for any other,--what, O Lord, can I do?

14. Once when I was in one of my difficulties, not knowing what to do, unable to pay the workmen,
St. Joseph, my true father and lord, appeared to me, and gave me to understand that money would
not be wanting, and I must hire the workmen.  So I did, though I was penniless; and our Lord,
in a way that filled those who heard of it with wonder, provided for me.  The house offered
me was too small,--so much so, that it seemed as if it could never be made into a monastery,--and
I wished to buy another, but had not the means, and there was neither way nor means to do so.
I knew not what to do.  There was another little house close to the one we had, which might
have formed a small church.  One day, after Communion, our Lord said to me, I have already
bidden thee to go in anyhow.  And then, as if exclaiming, said: Oh, covetousness of the human
race, thinking that even the whole earth is too little for it! how often have I slept in the
open air, because I had no place to shelter Me! [9]  I was alarmed, and saw that He had good
reasons to complain.  I went to the little house, arranged the divisions of it, and found that
it would make a sufficient, though small, monastery.  I did not care now to add to the site
by purchase, and so I did nothing but contrive to have it prepared in such a way that it could
be lived in.  Everything was coarse, and nothing more was done to it than to render it not
hurtful to health--and that must be done everywhere.

15. As I was going to Communion on her feast, St. Clare appeared to me in great beauty, and
bade me take courage, and go on with what I had begun; she would help me.  I began to have
a great devotion to St. Clare; and she has so truly kept her word, that a monastery of nuns
of her Order in our neighbourhood helped us to live; and, what is of more importance, by little
and little she so perfectly fulfilled my desire, that the poverty which the blessed Saint observes
in her own house is observed in this, and we are living on alms.  It cost me no small labour
to have this matter settled by the plenary sanction and authority of the Holy Father, [10]
so that it shall never be otherwise, and we possess no revenues.  Our Lord is doing more for
us--perhaps we owe it to the prayers of this blessed Saint; for, without our asking anybody,
His Majesty supplies most abundantly all our wants. May He be blessed for ever!  Amen.

16. On one of these days--it was the Feast of the Assumption of our Lady--I was in the church
of the monastery of the Order of the glorious St. Dominic, thinking of the events of my wretched
life, and of the many sins which in times past I had confessed in that house.  I fell into
so profound a trance, that I was as it were beside myself.  I sat down, and it seemed as if
I could neither see the Elevation nor hear Mass.  This afterwards became a scruple to me. 
I thought then, when I was in that state, that I saw myself clothed with a garment of excessive
whiteness and splendour.  At first I did not see who was putting it on me. Afterwards I saw
our Lady on my right hand, and my father St. Joseph on my left, clothing me with that garment.
I was given to understand that I was then cleansed from my sins. When I had been thus clad--I
was filled with the utmost delight and joy--our Lady seemed at once to take me by both hands.
She said that I pleased her very much by being devout to the glorious St. Joseph; that I might
rely on it my desires about the monastery were accomplished, and that our Lord and they too
would be greatly honoured in it; that I was to be afraid of no failure whatever, though the
obedience under which it would be placed might not be according to my mind, because they would
watch over us, and because her Son had promised to be with us [11]--and, as a proof of this,
she would give me that jewel.  She then seemed to throw around my neck a most splendid necklace
of gold, from which hung a cross of great value.  The stones and gold were so different from
any in this world, that there is nothing wherewith to compare them.  The beauty of them is
such as can be conceived by no imagination,--and no understanding can find out the materials
of the robe, nor picture to itself the splendours which our Lord revealed, in comparison with
which all the splendours of earth, so to say, are a daubing of soot.  This beauty, which I
saw in our Lady, was exceedingly grand, though I did not trace it in any particular feature,
but rather in the whole form of her face. She was clothed in white and her garments shone with
excessive lustre that was not dazzling, but soft.  I did not see St. Joseph so distinctly,
though I saw clearly that he was there, as in the visions of which I spoke before, [12] in
which nothing is seen.  Our Lady seemed to be very young.

17. When they had been with me for a while,--I, too, in the greatest delight and joy, greater
than I had ever had before, as I think, and with which I wished never to part,--I saw them,
so it seemed, ascend up to heaven, attended by a great multitude of angels.  I was left in
great loneliness, though so comforted and raised up, so recollected in prayer and softened,
that I was for some time unable to move or speak--being, as it were, beside myself.  I was
now possessed by a strong desire to be consumed for the love of God, and by other affections
of the same kind. Everything took place in such a way that I could never have a doubt--though
I often tried--that the vision came from God. [13] It left me in the greatest consolation and
peace.

18. As to that which the Queen of the Angels spoke about obedience, it is this: it was painful
to me not to subject the monastery to the Order, and our Lord had told me that it was inexpedient
to do so.  He told me the reasons why it was in no wise convenient that I should do it but
I must send to Rome in a certain way, which He also explained; He would take care that I found
help there: and so I did.  I sent to Rome, as our Lord directed me,--for we should never have
succeeded otherwise,--and most favourable was the result.

19. And as to subsequent events, it was very convenient to be under the Bishop, [14] but at
that time I did not know him, nor did I know what kind of a superior he might be.  It pleased
our Lord that he should be as good and favourable to this house as it was necessary he should
be on account of the great opposition it met with at the beginning, as I shall show hereafter,
[15] and also for the sake of bringing it to the condition it is now in. Blessed be He who
has done it all!  Amen.

1. Ch. xxi. section 6, ch. xxix. sections 10, 11.

2. Pedro Ibanez.  See ch. xxxviii. section 15.

3. Dionisio Vasquez.  Of him the Bollandists say that he was very austere and harsh to his
subjects, notwithstanding his great learning: "homini egregie docto ac rebus gestis claro,
sed in subditos, ut ex historia Societatis Jesu liquet, valde immiti" (n. 309).

4. Gaspar de Salazar was made rector of the house in Avila in 1561, therein succeeding Vasquez
(Bollandists, ibid.).

5. St. Teresa was commanded by our Lord to ask Father Baltasar Alvarez to make a meditation
on Psalm xci. 6: "Quam magnificata sunt opera Tua."  The Saint obeyed, and the meditation was
made. From that moment, as F. Alvarez afterwards told Father de Ribera (Life of St. Teresa,
i. ch. vii.), there was no further hesitation on the part of the Saint's confessor.

6. Juana de Ahumada, wife of Juan de Ovalle.

7. The money was a present from her brother, Don Lorenzo de Cepeda; and the Saint acknowledges
the receipt of it, and confesses the use made of it, in a letter to her brother, written in
Avila, Dec. 31, 1561 (De la Fuente).

8. One day, she went with her sister--she was staying in her house--to hear a sermon in the
church of St. Thomas.  The zealous preacher denounced visions and revelations; and his observations
were so much to the point, that there was no need of his saying that they were directed against
St. Teresa, who was present. Her sister was greatly hurt, and persuaded the Saint to return
to the monastery at once (Reforma, i. ch. xlii. section 1).

9. St. Luke ix. 58: "Filius autem hominis non habet ubi caput reclinet."

10. Pius IV., on Dec. 5, 1562, (Bouix). See ch. xxxix. section 19.

11. Ch. xxxii. section 14.

12. See ch. xxvii. section 7.

13. "Nuestro Senor," "our Lord," though inserted in the printed editions after the word "God,"
is not in the MS., according to Don V. de la Fuente.

14. Don Alvaro de Mendoza, Bishop of Avila, afterwards of Palencia.

15. See ch. xxxvi. section 15; Way of Perfection, ch. v. section 10; Foundations, ch. xxxi.
section 1.

1. Now, though I was very careful that no one should know what we were doing, all this work
could not be carried on so secretly as not to come to the knowledge of divers persons; some
believed, in it, others did not, I was in great fear lest the Provincial should be spoken to
about it when he came, and find himself compelled to order me to give it up; and if he did
so, it would have been abandoned at once.  Our Lord provided against it in this way.  In a
large city, more than twenty leagues distant, was a lady in great distress on account of her
husband's death. [1] She was in such extreme affliction, that fears were entertained about
her life.  She had heard of me, a poor sinner,--for our Lord had provided that,--and men spoke
well to her of me, for the sake of other good works which resulted from it.  This lady knew
the Provincial well; and as she was a person of some consideration, and knew that I lived in
a monastery the nuns of which were permitted to go out, our Lord made her desire much to see
me.  She thought that my presence would be a consolation to her, and that she could not be
comforted otherwise. She therefore strove by all the means in her power to get me into her
house, sending messages to the Provincial, who was at a distance far away.

2. The Provincial sent me an order, charging me in virtue of my obedience to go immediately,
with one companion.  I knew of it on Christmas night.  It caused me some trouble and much suffering
to see that they sent for me because they thought there was some good in me; I, knowing myself
to be so wicked, could not bear it. I commended myself earnestly to God, and during Matins,
or the greater part of them, was lost in a profound trance.  Our Lord told me I must go without
fail, and give no heed to the opinions of people, for they were few who would not be rash in
their counsel; and though I should have troubles, yet God would be served greatly: as to the
monastery, it was expedient I should be absent till the Brief came, because Satan had contrived
a great plot against the coming of the Provincial; that I was to have no fear,--He would help
me.  I repeated this to the rector, and he told me that I must go by all means, though others
were saying I ought not to go, that it was a trick of Satan to bring some evil upon me there,
and that I ought to send word to the Provincial.

3. I obeyed the rector, and went without fear, because of what I had understood in prayer,
though in the greatest confusion when I thought of the reasons why they sent for me, and how
very much they were deceived.  It made me more and more importunate with our Lord that He would
not abandon me.  It was a great comfort that there was a house of the Society of Jesus there
whither I was going, and so I thought I should be in some degree safe under the direction of
those fathers, as I had been here.

4. It was the good pleasure of our Lord that the lady who sent for me should be so much consoled
that a visible improvement was the immediate result she was comforted every day more and more.
This was very remarkable, because, as I said before, her suffering had reduced her to great
straits.  Our Lord must have done this in answer to the many prayers which the good people
of my acquaintance made for me, that I might prosper in my work. She had a profound fear of
God, and was so good, that her great devotion supplied my deficiencies.  She conceived a great
affection for me--I, too, for her, because of her goodness; but all was as it were a cross
for me; for the comforts of her house were a great torment, and her making so much of me made
me afraid.  I kept my soul continually recollected--I did not dare to be careless: nor was
our Lord careless of me; for while I was there, He bestowed the greatest graces upon me, and
those graces made me so free, and filled me with such contempt for all I saw,--and the more
I saw, the greater my contempt,--that I never failed to treat those ladies, whom to serve would
have been a great honour for me, with as much freedom as if I had been their equal.

5. I derived very great advantages from this, and I said so. I saw that she was a woman, and
as much liable to passion and weakness as I was; that rank is of little worth, and the higher
it is, the greater the anxiety and trouble it brings.

6. So it was that I came to hate the very wish to be a great lady.  God deliver me from this
wicked, artificial life!--though I believe that this lady, notwithstanding that she was one
of the chief personages of the realm, was a woman of great simplicity, and that few were more
humble than she was.  I was very sorry for her, for I saw how often she had to submit to much
that was disagreeable to her, because of the requirements of her rank.  This of itself is a
slavery, and one of the lies of the world is that it calls such persons masters, who, in my
eyes, are nothing else but slaves in a thousand ways.

7. It was our Lord's pleasure that the household of that lady improved in the service of His
Majesty during my stay there, though I was not exempted from some trials and some jealousies
on the part of some of its members, because of the great affection their mistress had for me.
They perhaps must have thought I had some personal interest to serve.  Our Lord must have permitted
such matters, and others of the same kind, to give me trouble, in order that I might not be
absorbed in the comforts which otherwise I had there; and He was pleased to deliver me out
of it all with great profit to my soul.

8. When I was there, a religious person of great consideration, and with whom I had conversed
occasionally some years ago, [2] happened to arrive.  When I was at Mass, in a monastery of
his Order, near the house in which I was staying, I felt a longing to know the state of his
soul,--for I wished him to be a great servant of God,--and I rose up in order to go and speak
to him. But as I was then recollected in prayer, it seemed to me a waste of time--for what
had I to do in that matter?--and so I returned to my place.  Three times, I think I did this,
and at last my good angel prevailed over the evil one, and I went and asked for him; and he
came to speak to me in one of the confessionals. We began by asking one another of our past
lives, for we had not seen one another for many years.  I told him that my life had been one
in which my soul had had many trials.  He insisted much on my telling him what those trials
were.  I said that they were not to be told, and that I was not to tell them.  He replied that
the Dominican father, [3] of whom I have spoken, knew them, and that, as they were great friends,
he could learn them from him, and so I had better tell them without hesitation.

9. The fact is, that it was not in his power not to insist, nor in mine, I believe, to refuse
to speak; for notwithstanding all the trouble and shame I used to feel formerly, I spoke of
my state, to him, and to the rector whom I have referred to before, [4] without any difficulty
whatever; on the contrary, it was a great consolation to me; and so I told him all in confession.
He seemed to me then more prudent than ever; though I had always looked upon him as a man of
great understanding. I considered what high gifts and endowments for great services he had,
if he gave himself wholly unto God.  I had this feeling now for many years, so that I never
saw any one who pleased me much without wishing at once he were given wholly unto God; and
sometimes I feel this so keenly, that I can hardly contain myself.  Though I long to see everybody
serve God, yet my desire about those who please me is very vehement, and so I importune our
Lord on their behalf.

10. So it happened with respect to this religious.  He asked me to pray much for him to God.
There was no necessity for his doing so, because I could not do anything else, and so I went
back to my place where I was in the habit of praying alone, and began to pray to our Lord,
being extremely recollected, in that my simple, silly way, when I speak without knowing very
often what I am saying.  It is love that speaks, and my soul is so beside itself, that I do
not regard the distance between it and God.  That love which I know His Majesty has for it
makes it forget itself, and think itself to be one with Him; and so, as being one with Him,
and not divided from Him, the soul speaks foolishly.  When I had prayed with many tears that
the soul of this religious might serve Him truly,--for, though I considered it good, it was
not enough for me; I would have it much better,--I remember I said, "O Lord, Thou must not
refuse me this grace; behold him,--he is a fit person to be our friend."

11. Oh, the great goodness and compassion of God!  How He regards not the words, but the desire
and the will with which they are spoken!  How He suffered such a one as I am to speak so boldly
before His Majesty!  May He be blessed for evermore!

12. I remember that during those hours of prayer on that very night I was extremely distressed
by the thought whether I was in the grace of God, and that I could never know whether I was
so or not,--not that I wished to know it; I wished, however, to die, in order that I might
not live a life in which I was not sure that I was not dead in sin, for there could be no death
more dreadful for me than to think that I had sinned against God.  I was in great straits at
this thought.  I implored Him not to suffer me to fall into sin, with great sweetness, dissolved
in tears. Then I heard that I might console myself, and trust [5] that I was in a state of
grace, because a love of God like mine, together with the graces and feelings with which His
Majesty filled my soul, was of such a nature as to be inconsistent with a state of mortal sin.

13. I was now confident that our Lord would grant my prayer as to that religious.  He bade
me repeat certain words to him.  This I felt much, because I knew not how to speak to him;
for this carrying messages to a third person, as I have said, [6] is what I have always felt
the most, especially when I did not know how that person would take them, nor whether he would
not laugh at me.  This placed me in great difficulties, but at last I was so convinced I ought
to do it, that I believe I made a promise to God I would not neglect that message; and because
of the great shame I felt, I wrote it out, and gave it in that way. The result showed clearly
enough that it was a message from God, for that religious resolved with great earnestness to
give himself to prayer, though he did not do so at once.  Our Lord would have him for Himself,
so He sent me to tell him certain truths which, without my understanding them, were so much
to the purpose that he was astonished.  Our Lord must have prepared him to receive them as
from His Majesty; and though I am but a miserable sinner myself, yet I made many supplications
to our Lord to convert him thoroughly, and to make him hate the pleasures and the things of
this life.  And so he did--blessed be God!--for every time that he spoke to me I was in a manner
beside myself; and if I had not seen it, I should never have believed that our Lord would have
given him in so short a time graces so matured, and filled him so full of God, that he seemed
to be alive to nothing on earth.

14. May His Majesty hold him in His hand!  If he will go on--and I trust in our Lord he will
do so, now that he is so well grounded in the knowledge of himself--he will be one of the most
distinguished servants of God, to the great profit of many souls, because he has in a short
time had great experience in spiritual things: that is a gift of God, which He gives when He
will and as He will, and it depends not on length of time nor extent of service.  I do not
mean that time and service, are not great helps, but very often our Lord will not give to some
in twenty years the grace of contemplation, while He gives it to others in one,--His Majesty
knoweth why.  We are under a delusion when we think that in the course of years we shall come
to the knowledge of that which we can in no way attain to but by experience; and thus many
are in error, as I have said [7] when they would understand spirituality without being spiritual
themselves.  I do not mean that a man who is not spiritual, if he is learned, may not direct
one that is spiritual; but it must be understood that in outward and inward things, in the
order of nature, the direction must be an act of reason; and in supernatural things, according
to the teaching of the sacred writings.  In other matters, let him not distress himself, nor
think that he can understand that which he understandeth not; neither let him quench the Spirit;
[8] for now another Master, greater than he, is directing these souls, so that they are not
left without authority over them.

15. He must not be astonished at this, nor think it impossible: all things are possible to
our Lord; [9] he must strive rather to strengthen his faith, and humble himself, because in
this matter our Lord imparts perhaps a deeper knowledge to some old woman than to him, though
he may be a very learned man.  Being thus humble, he will profit souls and himself more than
if he affected to be a contemplative without being so; for, I repeat it, if he have no experience,
if he have not a most profound humility, whereby he may see that he does not understand, and
that the thing is not for that reason impossible, he will do himself but little good, and still
less to his penitent.  But if he is humble, let him have no fear that our Lord will allow either
the one or the other to fall into delusion.

16. Now as to this father I am speaking of, as our Lord has given him light in many things,
so has he laboured to find out by study that which in this matter can be by study ascertained;
for he is a very learned man, and that of which he has no experience himself he seeks to find
out from those who have it,--and our Lord helps him by increasing his faith, and so he has
greatly benefited himself and some other souls, of whom mine is one. As our Lord knew the trials
I had to undergo, His Majesty seems to have provided that, when He took away unto Himself some
of those who directed me, others might remain, who helped me in my great afflictions, and rendered
me great services.

17. Our Lord wrought a complete change in this father, so much so that he scarcely knew himself,
so to speak.  He has given him bodily health, so that he may do penance, such as he never had
before; for he was sickly.  He has given him courage to undertake good works, with other gifts,
so that he seems to have received a most special vocation from our Lord.  May He be blessed
for ever!

18. All these blessings, I believe, came to him through the graces our Lord bestowed upon him
in prayer; for they are real. It has been our Lord's pleasure already to try him in certain
difficulties, out of which he has come forth like one who knows the true worth of that merit
which is gained by suffering persecutions.  I trust in the munificence of our Lord that great
good will, by his means, accrue to some of his Order and to the Order itself.  This is beginning
to be understood.  I have had great visions on the subject, and our Lord has told me wonderful
things of him and of the Rector of the Society of Jesus, whom I am speaking of, [10] and also
of two other religious of the Order of St. Dominic, particularly of one who, to his own profit,
has actually learned of our Lord certain things which I had formerly understood of him.  But
there were greater things made known of him to whom I am now referring: one of them I will
now relate.

19. I was with him once in the parlour, when in my soul and spirit I felt what great love burned
within him, and became as it were lost in ecstasy by considering the greatness of God, who
had raised that soul in so short a time to a state so high.  It made me ashamed of myself when
I saw him listen with so much humility to what I was saying about certain matters of prayer,
when I had so little myself that I could speak on the subject to one like him.  Our Lord must
have borne with me in this on account of the great desire I had to see that religious making
great progress. My interview with him did me great good,--it seems as if it left a new fire
in my soul, burning with desire to serve our Lord as in the beginning.  O my Jesus! what is
a soul on fire with Thy love!  How we ought to prize it, and implore our Lord to let it live
long upon earth!  He who has this love should follow after such souls, if it be possible.

20. It is a great thing for a person ill of this disease to find another struck down by it,--it
comforts him much to see that he is not alone; they help one another greatly to suffer and
to merit.  They are strong with a double strength who are resolved to risk a thousand lives
for God, and who long for an opportunity of losing them.  They are like soldiers who, to acquire
booty, and therewith enrich themselves, wish for war, knowing well that they cannot become
rich without it.  This is their work--to suffer.  Oh, what a blessing it is when our Lord gives
light to understand how great is the gain of suffering for Him!  This is never understood till
we have left all things; for if anybody is attached to any one thing, that is a proof that
he sets some value upon it; and if he sets any value upon it, it is painful to be compelled
to give it up.  In that case, everything is imperfect and lost.  The saying is to the purpose
here,--he who follows what is lost, is lost himself; and what greater loss, what greater blindness,
what greater calamity, can there be than making much of that which is nothing!

21. I now return to that which I had begun to speak of.  I was in the greatest joy, beholding
that soul.  It seemed as if our Lord would have me see clearly the treasures He had laid up
in it; and so, when I considered the favour our Lord had shown me, in that I should be the
means of so great a good, I recognised my own unworthiness for such an end.  I thought much
of the graces our Lord had given him, and held myself as indebted for them more than if they
had been given to myself.  So I gave thanks to our Lord, when I saw that His Majesty had fulfilled
my desires and heard my petition that He would raise up persons like him. And now my soul,
no longer able to bear the joy that filled it, went forth out of itself, losing itself that
it might gain the more. It lost sight of the reflections it was making; and the hearing of
that divine language which the Holy Ghost seemed to speak threw me into a deep trance, which
almost deprived me of all sense, though it did not last long.  I saw Christ, in exceeding great
majesty and glory, manifesting His joy at what was then passing.  He told me as much, and it
was His pleasure that I should clearly see that He was always present at similar interviews,
and how much He was pleased when people thus found their delight in speaking of Him.

22. On another occasion, when far away from this place, I saw him carried by angels in great
glory.  I understood by that vision that his soul was making great progress: so it was; for
an evil report was spread abroad against him by one to whom he had rendered a great service,
and whose reputation and whose soul he had saved.  He bore it with much joy.  He did also other
things greatly to the honour of God, and underwent more persecutions. I do not think it expedient
now to speak further on this point; if, however, you, my father, who know all, should hereafter
think otherwise, more might be said to the glory of our Lord.

23. All the prophecies spoken of before, [11] relating to this house, as well as others, of
which I shall speak hereafter, relating to it and to other matters, have been accomplished.
Some of them our Lord revealed to me three years before they became known, others earlier and
others later.  But I always made them known to my confessor, and to the widow my friend; for
I had leave to communicate with her, as I said before. [12]  She, I know, repeated them to
others, and these know that I lie not. May God never permit me, in any matter whatever,--much
more in things of this importance,--to say anything but the whole truth!

24. One of my brothers-in-law [13] died suddenly; and as I was in great distress at this, because
he had no opportunity of making his confession, our Lord said to me in prayer that my sister
also was to die in the same way; that I must go to her, and make her prepare herself for such
an end.  I told this to my confessor; but as he would not let me go, I heard the same warning
again; and now, when he saw this, he told me I might go, and that I should lose nothing by
going.  My sister was living in the country; and as I did not tell her why I came, I gave her
what light I could in all things.  I made her go frequently to confession, and look to her
soul in everything.  She was very good, and did as I asked her.  Four or five years after she
had begun this practice, and keeping a strict watch over her conscience, she died, with nobody
near her, and without being able to go to confession.  This was a blessing to her, for it was
little more than a week since she had been to her accustomed confession.  It was a great joy
to me when I heard of her death. She was but a short time in purgatory.

25. I do not think it was quite eight days afterwards when, after Communion, our Lord appeared
to me, and was pleased that I should see Him receive my sister into glory.  During all those
years, after our Lord had spoken to me, until her death, what I then learnt with respect to
her was never forgotten either by myself or by my friend, who, when my sister was thus dead,
came to me in great amazement at the fulfilment of the prophecy.  God be praised for ever,
who takes such care of souls that they may not be lost!

1. Dona Luisa de la Cerda, sister of the Duke of Medina-Coeli, was now the widow of Arias Pardo,
Marshal of Castille, Lord of Malagon and Paracuellos.  Don Arias was nephew of Cardinal Tabera,
Archbishop of Toledo (De la Fuente).

2. F. Vicente Barron, Dominican (see ch. v. section 8), according to F. Bouix, on the authority
of Ribera and Yepez; but the Carmelite Father, Fr. Antonio of St. Joseph, in his note on the
first Fragment (Letters, vol. iv. p. 408), says that it was Fr. Garcia of Toledo, brother of
Don Fernando, Duke of Alva; and Don Vicente de la Fuente thinks the opinion of Fr. Antonio
the more probable.

3. Pedro Ibanez (Bouix).

4. Ch. xxxiii. section 11.

5. Father Bouix says that here the word "confiar," "trust," in the printed text, has been substituted
by some one for the words "estar cierta," "be certain," which he found in the MS.  But Don
Vicente de la Fuente retains the old reading "confiar," and makes no observation on the alleged
discrepancy between the MS. and the printed text.  The observation of F. Bouix, however, is
more important, and deserves credit,--for Don Vicente may have failed, through mere inadvertence,
to see what F. Bouix saw; and it is also to be remembered that Don Vicente does not say that
the MS. on this point has been so closely inspected as to throw any doubt on the positive testimony
of F. Bouix.  Six years after this note was written Don Vicente published a facsimile by photography
of the original text in the handwriting of the Saint, preserved in the Escurial.  The words
are not "confiar," but "estar cierta."

6. Ch. xxxiii. section 12.

7. Ch. xiv. section 10.

8. 1 Thess. v. 19: "Spiritum nolite extinguere."

9. St. Matt. xix. 26: "Apud Deum autem omnia possibilia sunt."

10. F. Gaspar de Salazar.

11. Ch. xxvi. section 3.

12. Ch. xxx. section 3.  Dona Guiomar de Ulloa.

13. Don Martin de Guzman y Barrientos, husband of Maria de Cepeda, the Saint's sister.

Chapter XXXV.

The Foundation of the House of St. Joseph.  The Observation of Holy Poverty Therein.  How the
Saint Left Toledo.

1. When I was staying with this lady, [1] already spoken of, in whose house I remained more
than six months, our Lord ordained that a holy woman [2] of our Order should hear of me, who
was more than seventy leagues away from the place.  She happened to travel this way, and went
some leagues out of her road that she might see me.  Our Lord had moved her in the same year,
and in the same month of the year, that He had moved me, to found another monastery of the
Order; and as He had given her this desire, she sold all she possessed, and went to Rome to
obtain the necessary faculties.  She went on foot, and barefooted. She is a woman of great
penance and prayer, and one to whom our Lord gave many graces; and our Lady appeared to her,
and commanded her to undertake this work.  Her progress in the service of our Lord was so much
greater than mine, that I was ashamed to stand in her presence.  She showed me Briefs she brought
from Rome, and during the fortnight she remained with me we laid our plan for the founding
of these monasteries.

2. Until I spoke to her, I never knew that our rule, before it was mitigated, required of us
that we should possess nothing; [3] nor was I going to found a monastery without revenue, [4]
for my intention was that we should be without anxiety about all that was necessary for us,
and I did not think of the many anxieties which the possession of property brings in its train.
This holy woman, taught of our Lord, perfectly understood--though she could not read--what
I was ignorant of, notwithstanding my having read the Constitutions [5] so often; and when
she told me of it, I thought it right, though I feared they would never consent to this, but
would tell me I was committing follies, and that I ought not to do anything whereby I might
bring suffering upon others.  If this concerned only myself, nothing should have kept me back,--on
the contrary, it would have been my great joy to think that I was observing the counsels of
Christ our Lord; for His Majesty had already given me great longings for poverty. [6]

3. As for myself, I never doubted that this was the better part; for I had now for some time
wished it were possible in my state to go about begging, for the love of God--to have no house
of my own, nor anything else.  But I was afraid that others--if our Lord did not give them
the same desire--might live in discontent. Moreover, I feared that it might be the cause of
some distraction: for I knew some poor monasteries not very recollected, and I did not consider
that their not being recollected was the cause of their poverty, and that their poverty was
not the cause of their distraction: distraction never makes people richer, and God never fails
those who serve Him. In short, I was weak in faith; but not so this servant of God.

4. As I took the advice of many in everything, I found scarcely any one of this opinion--neither
my confessor, nor the learned men to whom I spoke of it.  They gave me so many reasons the
other way, that I did not know what to do.  But when I saw what the rule required, and that
poverty was the more perfect way, I could not persuade myself to allow an endowment.  And though
they did persuade me now and then that they were right, yet, when I returned to my prayer,
and saw Christ on the cross, so poor and destitute, I could not bear to be rich, and I implored
Him with tears so to order matters that I might be poor as He was.

5. I found that so many inconveniences resulted from an endowment, and saw that it was the
cause of so much trouble, and even distraction, that I did nothing but dispute with the learned.
I wrote to that Dominican friar [7] who was helping us, and he sent back two sheets by way
of reply, full of objections and theology against my plan, telling me that he had thought much
on the subject.  I answered that, in order to escape from my vocation, the vow of poverty I
had made, and the perfect observance of the counsels of Christ, I did not want any theology
to help me, and in this case I should not thank him for his learning.  If I found any one who
would help me, it pleased me much.  The lady in whose house I was staying was a great help
to me in this matter.  Some at first told me that they agreed with me; afterwards, when they
had considered the matter longer, they found in it so many inconveniences that they insisted
on my giving it up.  I told them that, though they changed their opinion so quickly, I would
abide by the first.

6. At this time, because of my entreaties,--for the lady had never seen the holy friar, Peter
of Alcantara,--it pleased our Lord to bring him to her house.  As he was a great lover of poverty,
and had lived in it for so many years, he knew well the treasures it contains, and so he was
a great help to me; he charged me on no account whatever to give up my purpose. Now, having
this opinion and sanction,--no one was better able to give it, because he knew what it was
by long experience,--I  made up my mind to seek no further advice.

7. One day, when I was very earnestly commending the matter to God, our Lord told me that I
must by no means give up my purpose of founding the monastery in poverty; it was His will,
and the will of His Father: He would help me.  I was in a trance; and the effects were such,
that I could have no doubt it came from God. On another occasion, He said to me that endowments
bred confusion, with other things in praise of poverty; and assured me that whosoever served
Him would never be in want of the necessary means of living: and this want, as I have said,
[8] I never feared myself.  Our Lord changed the dispositions also of the licentiate,--I am
speaking of the Dominican friar, [9]--who, as I said, wrote to me that I should not found the
monastery without an endowment.  Now, I was in the greatest joy at hearing this; and having
these opinions in my favour, it seemed to me nothing less than the possession of all the wealth
of the world, when I had resolved to live in poverty for the love of God.

8. At this time, my Provincial withdrew the order and the obedience, in virtue of which I was
staying in that house. [10] He left it to me to do as I liked: if I wished to return I might
do so; if I wished to remain I might also do so for a certain time. But during that time the
elections in my monastery [11] would take place and I was told that many of the nuns wished
to lay on me the burden of superiorship.  The very thought of this alone was a great torment
to me; for though I was resolved to undergo readily any kind of martyrdom for God, I could
not persuade myself at all to accept this; for, putting aside the great trouble it involved,--because
the nuns were so many,--and other reasons, such as that I never wished for it, nor for any
other office,--on the contrary, had always refused them,--it seemed to me that my conscience
would be in great danger; and so I praised God that I was not then in my convent.  I wrote
to my friends and asked them not to vote for me.

9. When I was rejoicing that I was not in that trouble, our Lord said to me that I was on no
account to keep away; that as I longed for a cross, there was one ready for me, and that a
heavy one: that I was not to throw it away, but go on with resolution; He would help me, and
I must go at once.  I was very much distressed, and did nothing but weep, because I thought
that my cross was to be the office of prioress; and, as I have just said, I could not persuade
myself that it would be at all good for my soul--nor could I see any means by which it would
be.  I told my confessor of it, and he commanded me to return at once: that to do so was clearly
the most perfect way; and that, because the heat was very great,--it would be enough if I arrived
before the election,--I might wait a few days, in order that my journey might do me no harm.

10. But our Lord had ordered it otherwise.  I had to go at once, because the uneasiness I felt
was very great; and I was unable to pray, and thought I was failing in obedience to the commandments
of our Lord, and that as I was happy and contented where I was, I would not go to meet trouble.
All my service of God there was lip-service: why did I, having the opportunity of living in
greater perfection, neglect it?  If I died on the road, let me die.  Besides, my soul was in
great straits, and our Lord had taken from me all sweetness in prayer.  In short, I was in
such a state of torment, that I begged the lady to let me go; for my confessor, when he saw
the plight I was in, had already told me to go, God having moved him as He had moved me.  The
lady felt my departure very much, and that was another pain to bear; for it had cost her much
trouble, and diverse importunities of the Provincial, to have me in her house.

11. I considered it a very great thing for her to have given her consent, when she felt it
so much; but, as she was a person who feared God exceedingly,--and as I told her, among many
other reasons, that my going away tended greatly to His service, and held out the hope that
I might possibly return,--she gave way, but with much sorrow.  I was now not sorry myself at
coming away, for I knew that it was an act of greater perfection, and for the service of God.
So the pleasure I had in pleasing God took away the pain of quitting that lady,--whom I saw
suffering so keenly,--and others to whom I owed much, particularly my confessor of the Society
of Jesus, in whom I found all I needed. But the greater the consolations I lost for our Lord's
sake, the greater was my joy in losing them.  I could not understand it, for I had a clear
consciousness of these two contrary feelings--pleasure, consolation, and joy in that which
weighed down my soul with sadness.  I was joyful and tranquil, and had opportunities of spending
many hours in prayer; and I saw that I was going to throw myself into a fire; for our Lord
had already told me that I was going to carry a heavy cross,--though I never thought it would
be so heavy as I afterwards found it to be,--yet I went forth rejoicing.  I was distressed
because I had not already begun the fight, since it was our Lord's will that I should be in
it.  Thus His Majesty gave me strength, and established it in my weakness. [12]

12. As I have just said, I could not understand how this could be.  I thought of this illustration:
if I were possessed of a jewel, or any other thing which gave me great pleasure, and it came
to my knowledge that a person whom I loved more than myself, and whose satisfaction I preferred
to my own, wished to have it, it would give me great pleasure to deprive myself of it, because
I would give all I possessed to please that person.  Now, as the pleasure of giving pleasure
to that person surpasses any pleasure I have in that jewel myself, I should not be distressed
in giving away that or anything else I loved, nor at the loss of that pleasure which the possession
of it gave me.  So now, though I wished to feel some distress when I saw that those whom I
was leaving felt my going so much, yet, notwithstanding my naturally grateful disposition,--which,
under other circumstances, would have been enough to have caused me great pain,--at this time,
though I wished to feel it, I could feel none.

13. The delay of another day was so serious a matter in the affairs of this holy house, that
I know not how they would have been settled if I had waited.  Oh, God is great!  I am often
lost in wonder when I consider and see the special help which His Majesty gave me towards the
establishment of this little cell of God,--for such I believe it to be,--the lodging wherein
His Majesty delights; for once, when I was in prayer, He told me that this house was the paradise
of his delight. [13]  It seems, then, that His Majesty has chosen these whom he has drawn hither,
among whom I am living very much ashamed of myself. [14]  I could not have even wished for
souls such as they are for the purpose of this house, where enclosure, poverty, and prayer
are so strictly observed; they submit with so much joy and contentment, that every one of them
thinks herself unworthy of the grace of being received into it,--some of them particularly;
for our Lord has called them out of the vanity and dissipation of the world, in which, according
to its laws, they might have lived contented. Our Lord has multiplied their joy, so that they
see clearly how He had given them a hundredfold for the one thing they have left, [15] and
for which they cannot thank His Majesty enough. Others He has advanced from well to better.
To the young He gives courage and knowledge, so that they may desire nothing else, and also
to understand that to live away from all things in this life is to live in greater peace even
here below.  To those who are no longer young, and whose health is weak, He gives--and has
given--the strength to undergo the same austerities and penance with all the others.

14. O my Lord! how Thou dost show Thy power!  There is no need to seek reasons for Thy will;
for with Thee, against all natural reason, all things are possible: so that thou teachest clearly
there is no need of anything but of loving Thee [16] in earnest, and really giving up everything
for Thee, in order that Thou, O my Lord, might make everything easy.  It is well said that
Thou feignest to make Thy law difficult: [17] I do not see it, nor do I feel that the way that
leadeth unto Thee is narrow. I see it as a royal road, and not a pathway; a road upon which
whosoever really enters, travels most securely.  No mountain passes and no cliffs are near
it: these are the occasions of sin. I call that a pass,--a dangerous pass,--and a narrow road,
which has on one side a deep hollow, into which one stumbles, and on the other a precipice,
over which they who are careless fall, and are dashed to pieces.  He who loves Thee, O my God,
travels safely by the open and royal road, far away from the precipice: he has scarcely stumbled
at all, when Thou stretchest forth Thy hand to save him. One fall--yea, many falls--if he does
but love Thee, and not the things of the world, are not enough to make him perish; he travels
in the valley of humility.  I cannot understand what it is that makes men afraid of the way
of perfection.

15. May our Lord of His mercy make us see what a poor security we have in the midst of dangers
so manifest, when we live like the rest of the world; and that true security consists in striving
to advance in the way of God!  Let us fix our eyes upon Him, and have no fear that the Sun
of justice will ever set, or suffer us to travel to our ruin by night, unless we first look
away from Him.  People are not afraid of living in the midst of lions, every one of whom seems
eager to tear them: I am speaking of honours, pleasures, and the like joys, as the world calls
them: and herein the devil seems to make us afraid of ghosts.  I am astonished a thousand times,
and ten thousand times would I relieve myself by weeping, and proclaim aloud my own great blindness
and wickedness, if, perchance, it might help in some measure to open their eyes.  May He, who
is almighty, of His goodness open their eyes, and never suffer mine to be blind again!

1. Dona Luisa de la Cerda.

2. Maria of Jesus was the daughter of a Reporter of Causes in the Chancery of Granada; but
his name and that of his wife are not known.  Maria married, but became a widow soon afterwards.
She then became a novice in the Carmelite monastery in Granada, and during her noviciate had
revelations, like those of St. Teresa, about a reform of the Order.  Her confessor made light
of her revelations, and she then referred them to F. Gaspar de Salazar, a confessor of St.
Teresa, who was then in Granada. He approved of them, and Maria left the noviciate, and went
to Rome with two holy women of the Order of St. Francis.  The three made the journey on foot,
and, moreover, barefooted.  Pope Pius IV. heard her prayer, and, looking at her torn and bleeding
feet, said to her, "Woman of strong courage, let it be as thou wilt." She returned to Granada,
but both the Carmelites and the city refused her permission to found her house there, and some
went so far as to threaten to have her publicly whipped.  Dona Leonor de Mascarenas gave her
a house in Alcala de Henares, of which she took possession Sept. 11, 1562; but the house was
formally constituted July 23, 1563, and subjected to the Bishop ten days after (Reforma, i.
c. 59; and Don Vicente, vol. i. p. 255). The latter says that the Chronicler is in error when
he asserts that this monastery of Maria of Jesus was endowed.

3. The sixth chapter of the rule is: "Nullus fratrum sibi aliquid proprium, esse dicat, sed
sint vobis omnia communia."

4. See ch. xxxii. section 13.

5. The Constitutions which the Saint read in the Monastery of the Incarnation must have been
the Constitutions grounded on the Mitigated Rule which was sanctioned by Eugenius IV. (Romani
Pontificis, A.D. 1432).

6. See Relation, i. section 10.

7. F. Pedro Ibanez.

8. Ch. xi. section 3.

9. F. Pedro Ibanez.

10. The house of Dona Luisa, in Toledo.

11. The monastery of the Incarnation, Avila.

12. 2 Cor. xii. 9: "Virtus in infirmitate perficitur."

13. See Way of Perfection, ch. xxii.; but ch. xiii. ed. Doblado.

14. See Foundations, ch. I, section 1.

15. St. Matt. xix. 29: "Et omnis qui reliquerit domum . . . propter nomen Meum, centuplum accipiet,
et vitam aeternam possidebit."

16. When the workmen were busy with the building, a nephew of the Saint, the child of her sister
and Don Juan de Ovalle, was struck by some falling stones and killed.  The workmen took the
child to his mother: and the Saint, then in the house of Dona Guiomar de Ulloa, was sent for.
Dona Guiomar took the dead boy into her arms, gave him to the Saint, saying that it was a grievous
blow to the father and mother, and that she must obtain his life from God.  The Saint took
the body, and, laying it in her lap, ordered those around her to cease their lamentations,
of whom her sister was naturally the loudest, and be silent.  Then, covering her face and her
body with her veil, she prayed to God, and God gave the child his life again.  The little boy
soon after ran up to his aunt and thanked her for what she had done.  In after years the child
used to say to the Saint that, as she had deprived him of the bliss of heaven by bringing him
back to life, she was bound to see that he did not suffer loss.  Don Gonzalo died three years
after St. Teresa, when he was twenty-eight years of age (Reforma, i. c. 42, section 2).

17. Psalm xciii. 20: "Qui fingis laborem in praecepto."

1. Having now left that city, [1] I travelled in great joy, resolved to suffer most willingly
whatever our Lord might be pleased to lay upon me.  On the night of my arrival here, [2] came
also from Rome the commission and the Brief for the erection of the monastery. [3]  I was astonished
myself, and so were those who knew how our Lord hastened my coming, when they saw how necessary
it was, and in what a moment our Lord had brought me back. [4]  I found here the Bishop and
the holy friar, [5] Peter of Alcantara, and that nobleman, [6] the great servant of God, in
whose house the holy man was staying; for he was a man who was in the habit of receiving the
servants of God in his house. These two prevailed on the Bishop to accept the monastery, which
was no small thing, because it was founded in poverty; but he was so great a lover of those
whom he saw determined to serve our Lord, that he was immediately drawn to give them His protection.
It was the approbation of the holy old man, [7] and the great trouble he took to make now this
one, now that one, help us, that did the whole work.  If I had not come at the moment, as I
have just said, I do not see how it could have been done; for the holy man was here but a short
time,--I think not quite eight days,--during which he was also ill; and almost immediately
afterwards our Lord took him to Himself. [8]  It seems as if His Majesty reserved him till
this affair was ended, because now for some time--I think for more than two years--he had been
very ill.

2. Everything was done in the utmost secrecy; and if it had not been so, I do not see how anything
could have been done at all; for the people of the city were against us, as it appeared afterwards.
Our Lord ordained that one of my brothers-in-law [9] should be ill, and his wife away, and
himself in such straits that my superiors gave me leave to remain with him. Nothing, therefore,
was found out, though some persons had their suspicions;--still, they did not believe.  It
was very wonderful, for his illness lasted only no longer than was necessary for our affair;
and when it was necessary he should recover his health, that I might be disengaged, and he
leave the house empty, our Lord restored him; and he was astonished at it himself. [10]

3. I had much trouble in persuading this person and that to allow the foundation; I had to
nurse the sick man, and obtain from the workmen the hasty preparation of the house, so that
it might have the form of a monastery; but much remained still to be done. My friend was not
here, [11] for we thought it best she should be away, in order the better to hide our purpose.
I saw that everything depended on haste, for many, reasons, one of which was that I was afraid
I might be ordered back to my monastery at any moment.  I was troubled by so many things, that
I suspected my cross had been sent me, though it seemed but a light one in comparison with
that which I understood our Lord meant me to carry.

4. When everything was settled, our Lord was pleased that some of us should take the habit
on St. Bartholomew's Day.  The most Holy Sacrament began to dwell in the house at the same
time. [12] With full sanction and authority, then, our monastery of our most glorious father
St. Joseph was founded in the year 1562. [13] I was there myself to give the habit, with two
nuns [14] of the house to which we belonged, who happened then to be absent from it.  As the
house which thus became a monastery was that of my brother-in-law--I said before [15] that
he had bought it, for the purpose of concealing our plan--I was there myself with the permission
of my superiors; and I did nothing without the advice of learned men, in order that I might
not break, in a single point, my vow of obedience.  As these persons considered what I was
doing to be most advantageous for the whole Order, on many accounts, they told me--though I
was acting secretly, and taking care my superiors should know nothing--that I might go on.
If they had told me that there was the slightest imperfection in the whole matter, I would
have given up the founding of a thousand monasteries,--how much more, then, this one!  I am
certain of this; for though I longed to withdraw from everything more and more, and to follow
my rule and vocation in the greatest perfection and seclusion, yet I wished to do so only conditionally:
for if I should have learnt that it would be for the greater honour of our Lord to abandon
it, I would have done so, as I did before on one occasion, [16] in all peace and contentment.

5. I felt as if I were in bliss, when I saw the most Holy Sacrament reserved, with four poor
orphans, [17]--for they were received without a dowry,--and great servants of God, established
in the house.  It was our aim from the beginning to receive only those who, by their example,
might be the foundation on which we could build up what we had in view--great perfection and
prayer--and effect a work which I believed to be for the service of our Lord, and to the honour
of the habit of His glorious Mother. This was my anxiety.  It was also a great consolation
to me that I had done that which our Lord had so often commanded me to do, and that there was
one church more in this city dedicated to my glorious father St. Joseph.  Not that I thought
I had done anything myself, for I have never thought so, and do not think so even now; I always
looked upon it as the work of our Lord. My part in it was so full of imperfections, that I
look upon myself rather as a person in fault than as one to whom any thanks are due.  But it
was a great joy to me when I saw His Majesty make use of me, who am so worthless, as His instrument
in so grand a work.  I was therefore in great joy,--so much so, that I was, as it were, beside
myself, lost in prayer.

6. When all was done--it might have been about three or four hours afterwards--Satan returned
to the spiritual fight against me, as I shall now relate.  He suggested to me that perhaps
I had been wrong in what I had done; perhaps I had failed in my obedience, in having brought
it about without the commandment of the Provincial.  I did certainly think that the Provincial
would be displeased because I had placed the monastery under the jurisdiction of the Bishop
[18] without telling him of it beforehand; though, as he would not acknowledge the monastery
himself, and as I had not changed mine, it seemed to me that perhaps he would not care much
about the matter.  Satan also suggested whether the nuns would be contented to live in so strict
a house, whether they could always find food, whether I had not done a silly thing, and what
had I to do with it, when I was already in a monastery?  All our Lord had said to me, all the
opinions I had heard, and all the prayers which had been almost uninterrupted for more than
two years, were completely blotted out of my memory, just as if they had never been.  The only
thing I remembered was my own opinion; and every virtue, with faith itself, was then suspended
within me, so that I was without strength to practise any one of them, or to defend myself
against so many blows.

7. The devil also would have me ask myself how I could think of shutting myself up in so strict
a house, when I was subject to so many infirmities; how could I bear so penitential a life,
and leave a house large and pleasant, where I had been always so happy, and where I had so
many friends?--perhaps I might not like those of the new monastery; I had taken on myself a
heavy obligation, and might possibly end in despair.  He also suggested that perhaps it was
he himself who had contrived it, in order to rob me of my peace and rest, so that, being unable
to pray, I might be disquieted, and so lose my soul.  Thoughts of this kind he put before me;
and they were so many, that I could think of nothing else; and with them came such distress,
obscurity, and darkness of soul as I can never describe.  When I found myself in this state,
I went and placed myself before the most Holy Sacrament, though I could not pray to Him; so
great was my anguish, that I was like one in the agony of death.  I could not make the matter
known to any one, because no confessor had as yet been appointed.

8. O my God, how wretched is this life!  No joy is lasting; everything is liable to change.
Only a moment ago, I do not think I would have exchanged my joy with any man upon earth; and
the very grounds of that joy so tormented me now, that I knew not what to do with myself. 
Oh, if we did but consider carefully the events of our life, every one of us would learn from
experience how little we ought to make either of its pleasures or of its pains!  Certainly
this was, I believe, one of the most distressing moments I ever passed in all my life; my spirit
seemed to forecast the great sufferings in store for me, though they never were so heavy as
this was, if it had continued. But our Lord would not let His poor servant suffer, for in all
my troubles He never failed to succour me; so it was now.  He gave me a little light, so that
I might see it was the work of the devil, and might understand the truth,--namely, that it
was nothing else but an attempt on his part to frighten me with his lies.  So I began to call
to mind my great resolutions to serve our Lord, and my desire to suffer for His sake; and I
thought that if I carried them out, I must not seek to be at rest; that if I had my trials,
they would be meritorious; and that if I had troubles, and endured them in order to please
God, it would serve me for purgatory.  What was I, then, afraid of?  If I longed for tribulations,
I had them now; and my gain lay in the greatest opposition.  Why, then, did I fail in courage
to serve One to whom I owed so much?

9. After making these and other reflections, and doing great violence to myself, I promised
before the most Holy Sacrament to do all in my power to obtain permission to enter this house,
and, if I could do it with a good conscience, to make a vow of enclosure.  When I had done
this, the devil fled in a moment, and left me calm and peaceful, and I have continued so ever
since; and the enclosure, penances, and other rules of this house are to me, in their observance,
so singularly sweet and light, the joy I have is so exceedingly great, that I am now and then
thinking what on earth I could have chosen which should be more delightful.  I know not whether
this may not be the cause of my being in better health than I was ever before, or whether it
be that our Lord, because it is needful and reasonable that I should do as all the others do,
gives me this comfort of keeping the whole rule, though with some difficulty.  However, all
who know my infirmities, are astonished at my strength.  Blessed be He who giveth it all, and
in whose strength I am strong!

10. Such a contest left me greatly fatigued, and laughing at Satan; for I saw clearly it was
he.  As I have never known what it is to be discontented because I am a nun--no, not for an
instant--during more than twenty-eight years of religion, I believe that our Lord suffered
me to be thus tempted, that I might understand how great a mercy He had shown me herein, and
from what torment He had delivered me, and that if I saw any one in like trouble I might not
be alarmed at it, but have pity on her, and be able to console her.

11. Then, when this was over, I wished to rest myself a little after our dinner; for during
the whole of that night I had scarcely rested at all, and for some nights previously I had
had much trouble and anxiety, while every day was full of toil; for the news of what we had
done had reached my monastery, and was spread through the city.  There arose a great outcry,
for the reasons I mentioned before, [19] and there was some apparent ground for it.  The prioress
[20] sent for me to come to her immediately.  When I received the order, I went at once, leaving
the nuns in great distress.  I saw clearly enough that there were troubles before me; but as
the work was really done, I did not care much for that.  I prayed and implored our Lord to
help me, and my father St. Joseph to bring me back to his house. I offered up to him all I
was to suffer, rejoicing greatly that I had the opportunity of suffering for his honour and
of doing him service.  I went persuaded that I should be put in prison at once but this would
have been a great comfort, because I should have nobody to speak to, and might have some rest
and solitude, of which I was in great need; for so much intercourse with people had worn me out.

12. When I came and told the prioress what I had done, she was softened a little.  They all
sent for the Provincial, and the matter was reserved for him.  When he came, I was summoned
to judgment, rejoicing greatly at seeing that I had something to suffer for our Lord.  I did
not think I had offended against His Majesty, or against my Order, in anything I had done;
on the contrary, I was striving with all my might to exalt my Order, for which I would willingly
have died,--for my whole desire was that its rule might be observed in all perfection.  I thought
of Christ receiving sentence, and I saw how this of mine would be less than nothing.  I confessed
my fault, as if I had been very much to blame; and so I seemed to every one who did not know
all the reasons.  After the Provincial had rebuked me sharply--though not with the severity
which my fault deserved, nor according to the representations made to him--I would not defend
myself, for I was determined to bear it all; on the contrary, I prayed him to forgive and punish,
and be no longer angry with me.

13. I saw well enough that they condemned me on some charges of which I was innocent, for they
said I had founded the monastery that I might be thought much of, and to make myself a name,
and for other reasons of that kind.  But on other points I understood clearly that they were
speaking the truth, as when they said that I was more wicked than the other nuns.  They asked,
how could I, who had not kept the rule in that house, think of keeping it in another of stricter
observance?  They said I was giving scandal in the city, and setting up novelties.  All this
neither troubled nor distressed me in the least, though I did seem to feel it, lest I should
appear to make light of what they were saying.

14. At last the Provincial commanded me to explain my conduct before the nuns, and I had to
do it.  As I was perfectly calm, and our Lord helped me, I explained everything in such a way
that neither the Provincial nor those who were present found any reason to condemn me.  Afterwards
I spoke more plainly to the Provincial alone; he was very much satisfied, and promised, if
the new monastery prospered, and the city became quiet, to give me leave to live in it.  Now
the outcry in the city was very great, as I am going to tell.  Two or three days after this,
the governor, certain members of the council of the city and of the Chapter, came together,
and resolved that the new monastery should not be allowed to exist, that it was a visible wrong
to the state, that the most Holy Sacrament should be removed, and that they would not suffer
us to go on with our work.

15. They assembled all the Orders--that is, two learned men from each--to give their opinion.
Some were silent, others condemned; in the end, they resolved that the monastery should be
broken up. Only one [21]--he was of the Order of St. Dominic, and objected, not to the monastery
itself, but to the foundation of it in poverty--said that there was no reason why it should
be thus dissolved, that the matter ought to be well considered, that there was time enough,
that it was the affair of the bishop, with other things of that kind.  This was of great service
to us, for they were angry enough to proceed to its destruction at once, and it was fortunate
they did not.  In short, the monastery must exist; our Lord was pleased to have it, and all
of them could do nothing against His will.  They gave their reasons, and showed their zeal
for good, and thus, without offending God, made me suffer together with all those who were
in favour of the monastery; there were not many, but they suffered much persecution.  The inhabitants
were so excited, that they talked of nothing else; every one condemned me, and hurried to the
Provincial and to my monastery.

16. I was no more distressed by what they said of me than if they had said nothing; but I was
afraid the monastery would be destroyed: that was painful; so also was it to see those persons
who helped me lose their credit and suffer so much annoyance. But as to what was said of myself
I was rather glad, and if I had had any faith I should not have been troubled at all.  But
a slight failing in one virtue is enough to put all the others to sleep. I was therefore extremely
distressed during the two days on which those assemblies of which I have spoken were held.
In the extremity of my trouble, our Lord said to me: "Knowest thou not that I am the Almighty?
what art thou afraid of?" He made me feel assured that the monastery would not be broken up,
and I was exceedingly comforted.  The informations taken were sent up to the king's council,
and an order came back for a report on the whole matter.

17. Here was the beginning of a grand lawsuit: the city sent delegates to the court, and some
must be sent also to defend the monastery: but I had no money, nor did I know what to do. Our
Lord provided for us for the Father Provincial never ordered me not to meddle in the matter.
He is so great a lover of all that is good, that, though he did not help us, he would not be
against our work.  Neither did he authorise me to enter the house till he saw how it would
end.  Those servants of God who were in it were left alone, and did more by their prayers than
I did with all my negotiations, though the affair needed the utmost attention.  Now and then
everything seemed to fail; particularly one day, before the Provincial came, when the prioress
ordered me to meddle no more with it, and to give it up altogether. I betook myself to God,
and said, "O Lord, this house is not mine; it was founded for Thee; and now that there is no
one to take up the cause, do Thou protect it."  I now felt myself in peace, and as free from
anxiety as if the whole world were on my side in the matter; and at once I looked upon it as
safe. [22]

18. A very great servant of God, and a lover of all perfection, a priest [23] who had helped
me always, went to the court on this business, and took great pains.  That holy nobleman [24]
of whom I have often spoken laboured much on our behalf, and helped us in every way.  He had
much trouble and persecution to endure, and I always found a father in him, and do so still.
All those who helped us, our Lord filled with such fervour as made them consider our affair
as their own, as if their own life and reputation were at stake; and yet it was nothing to
them, except in so far as it regarded the service of our Lord.  His Majesty visibly helped
the priest I have spoken of before, [25] who was also one of those who gave us great help when
the Bishop sent him as his representative to one of the great meetings.  There he stood alone
against all; at last he pacified them by means of certain propositions, which obtained us a
little respite. But that was not enough; for they were ready to spend their lives, if they
could but destroy the monastery.  This servant of God was he who gave the habit and reserved
the most Holy Sacrament, and he was the object of much persecution. This attack lasted about
six months: to relate in detail the heavy trials we passed through would be too tedious.

19. I wondered at what Satan did against a few poor women, and also how all people thought
that merely twelve women, with a prioress, could be so hurtful to the city,--for they were
not to be more,--I say this to those who opposed us,--and living such austere lives; for if
any harm or error came of it, it would all fall upon them.  Harm to the city there could not
be in any way; and yet the people thought there was so much in it, that they opposed us with
a good conscience.  At last they resolved they would tolerate us if we were endowed, and in
consideration of that would suffer us to remain.  I was so distressed at the trouble of all
those who were on our side--more than at my own--that I thought it would not be amiss, till
the people were pacified, to accept an endowment, but afterwards to resign it. At other times,
too, wicked and imperfect as I am, I thought that perhaps our Lord wished it to be so, seeing
that, without accepting it, we could not succeed; and so I consented to the compromise.

20. The night before the settlement was to be made, I was in prayer,--the discussion of the
terms of it had already begun,--when our Lord said to me that I must do nothing of the kind;
for if we began with an endowment, they would never allow us to resign it.  He said some other
things also.  The same night, the holy friar, Peter of Alcantara, appeared to me. He was then
dead. [26]  But he had written to me before his death--for he knew the great opposition and
persecution we had to bear--that he was glad the foundation was so much spoken against; it
was a sign that our Lord would be exceedingly honoured in the monastery, seeing that Satan
was so earnest against it; and that I was by no means to consent to an endowment.  He urged
this upon me twice or thrice in that letter, and said that if I persisted in this everything
would succeed according to my wish.

21. At this time I had already seen him twice since his death, and the great glory he was in,
and so I was not afraid,--on the contrary, I was very glad; for he always appeared as a glorified
body in great happiness, and the vision made me very happy too. I remember that he told me,
the first time I saw him, among other things, when speaking of the greatness of his joy, that
the penance he had done was a blessed thing for him, in that it had obtained so great a reward.
But, as I think I have spoken of this before, [27] I will now say no more than that he showed
himself severe on this occasion: he merely said that I was on no account to accept an endowment,
and asked why it was I did not take his advice.  He then disappeared. I remained in astonishment,
and the next day told the nobleman--for I went to him in all my trouble, as to one who did
more than others for us in the matter,--what had taken place, and charged him not to consent
to the endowment, but to let the lawsuit go on.  He was more firm on this point than I was,
and was therefore greatly pleased; he told me afterwards how much he disliked the compromise.

22. After this, another personage--a great servant of God, and with good intentions--came forward,
who, now that the matter was in good train, advised us to put it in the hands of learned men.
This brought on trouble enough; for some of those who helped me agreed to do so; and this plot
of Satan was one of the most difficult of all to unravel.  Our Lord was my helper throughout.
Writing thus briefly, it is impossible for me to explain what took place during the two years
that passed between the beginning and the completion of the monastery: the last six months
and the first six months were the most painful.

23. When at last the city was somewhat calm, the licentiate father, the Dominican friar [28]
who helped us, exerted himself most skilfully on our behalf.  Though not here at the time,
our Lord brought him here at a most convenient moment for our service, and it seems that His
Majesty brought him for that purpose only.  He told me afterwards that he had no reasons for
coming, and that he heard of our affair as if by chance. He remained here as long as we wanted
him, and on going away he prevailed, by some means, on the Father Provincial to permit me to
enter this house, and to take with me some of the nuns [29]--such a permission seemed impossible
in so short a time for the performance of the Divine Office--and the training of those who
were in this house: the day of our coming was a most joyful day for me. [30]

24. While praying in the church, before I went into the house, and being as it were in a trance,
I saw Christ; who, as it seemed to me, received me with great affection, placed a crown on
my head, and thanked me for what I had done for His Mother. On another occasion, when all of
us remained in the choir in prayer after Compline, I saw our Lady in exceeding glory, in a
white mantle, with which she seemed to cover us all. I understood by that the high degree of
glory to which our Lord would raise the religious of this house.

25. When we had begun to sing the Office, the people began to have a great devotion to the
monastery; more nuns were received, and our Lord began to stir up those who had been our greatest
persecutors to become great benefactors, and give alms to us. In this way they came to approve
of what they had condemned; and so, by degrees, they withdrew from the lawsuit, and would say
that they now felt it to be a work of God, since His Majesty had been pleased to carry it on
in the face of so much opposition. And now there is not one who thinks that it would have been
right not to have founded the monastery: so they make a point of furnishing us with alms; for
without any asking on our part, without begging of any one, our Lord moves them to, succour
us; and so we always have what is necessary for us, and I trust in our Lord it will always
be so. [31]  As the sisters are few in number, if they do their duty as our Lord at present
by His grace enables them to do, I am confident that they will always have it, and that they
need not be a burden nor troublesome to anybody; for our Lord will care for them, as He has
hitherto done.

26. It is the greatest consolation to me to find myself among those who are so detached.  Their
occupation is to learn how they may advance in the service of God.  Solitude is their delight;
and the thought of being visited by any one, even of their nearest kindred, is a trial, unless
it helps them to kindle more and more their love of the Bridegroom.  Accordingly, none come
to this house who do not aim at this; otherwise they neither give nor receive any pleasure
from their visits.  Their conversation is of God only; and so he whose conversation is different
does not understand them, and they do not understand him.

27. We keep the rule of our Lady of Carmel, not the rule of the Mitigation, but as it was settled
by Fr. Hugo, Cardinal of Santa Sabina, and given in the year 1248, in the fifth year of the
pontificate of Innocent IV., Pope.  All the trouble we had to go through, as it seems to me,
will have been endured to good purpose.

28. And now, though the rule be somewhat severe,--for we never eat flesh except in cases of
necessity, fast eight months in the year, and practise some other austerities besides, according
to the primitive rule, [32]--yet the sisters think it light on many points, and so they have
other observances, which we have thought necessary for the more perfect keeping of it.  And
I trust in our Lord that what we have begun will prosper more and more, according to the promise
of His Majesty.

29. The other house, which the holy woman of whom I spoke before [33] laboured to establish,
has been also blessed of our Lord, and is founded in Alcala: it did not escape serious opposition,
nor fail to endure many trials.  I know that all duties of religion are observed in it, according
to our primitive rule.  Our Lord grant that all may be to the praise and glory of Himself and
of the glorious Virgin Mary, whose habit we wear.  Amen.

30. I think you must be wearied, my father, by the tedious history of this monastery; and yet
it is most concise, if you compare it with our labours, and the wonders which our Lord has
wrought here.  There are many who can bear witness to this on oath.  I therefore beg of your
reverence, for the love of God, should you think fit to destroy the rest of this my writing,
to preserve that part of it which relates to this monastery, and give it, when I am dead, to
the sisters who may then be living in it.  It will encourage them greatly, who shall come here
both to serve God and to labour, that what has been thus begun may not fall to decay, but ever
grow and thrive, when they see how much our Lord has done through one so mean and vile as I.
As our Lord has been so particularly gracious to us in the foundation of this house it seems
to me that she will do very wrong, and that she will be heavily chastised of God, who shall
be the first to relax the perfect observance of the rule, which our Lord has here begun and
countenanced, so that it may be kept with so much sweetness: it is most evident that the observance
of it is easy, and that it can be kept with ease, by the arrangement made for those who long
to be alone with their Bridegroom Christ, in order to live for ever in Him.

31. This is to be the perpetual aim of those who are here, to be alone with Him alone.  They
are not to be more in number than thirteen: I know this number to be the best, for I have had
many opinions about it; and I have seen in my own experience, that to preserve our spirit,
living on alms, without asking of anyone, a larger number would be inexpedient.  May they always
believe one who with much labour, and by the prayers of many people, accomplished that which
must be for the best!  That this is most expedient for us will be seen from the joy and cheerfulness,
and the few troubles, we have all had in the years we have lived in this house, as well as
from the better health than usual of us all.  If any one thinks the rule hard, let her lay
the fault on her want of the true spirit, and not on the rule of the house, seeing that delicate
persons, and those not saints,--because they have the true spirit,--can bear it all with so
much sweetness. Let others go to another monastery, where they may save their souls in the
way of their own spirit.

1. Toledo.

2. Avila.  In the beginning of June, 1562.

3. See ch. xxxiv. section 2.  The Brief was dated Feb. 7, 1562, the third year of Pius IV.
(De la Fuente).

4. The Brief was addressed to Dona Aldonza de Guzman, and to Dona Guiomar de Ulloa, her daughter.

5. Don Alvaro de Mendoza (De la Fuente).

6. Don Francisco de Salcedo.

7. St. Peter of Alcantara.  "Truly this is the house of St. Joseph," were the Saint's words
when he saw the rising monastery; "for I see it is the little hospice of Bethlehem" (De la Fuente).

8. In less than three months, perhaps; for St. Peter died in the sixty-third year of his age,
Oct. 18, 1562, and in less than eight weeks after the foundation of the monastery of St. Joseph.

9. Don Juan de Ovalle.

10. When he saw that the Saint had made all her arrangements, he knew the meaning of his illness,
and said to her, "It is not necessary I should be ill any longer" (Ribera, i. c. 8).

11. Dona Guiomar de Ulloa was now in her native place, Ciudad Toro.

12. The Mass was said by Gaspar Daza.  See infra, section 18; Reforma, i. c. xlvi. section 3.

13. The bell which the Saint had provided for the convent weighed less than three pounds, and
remained in the monastery for a hundred years, till it was sent, by order of the General, to
the monastery of Pastrana, where the general chapters were held. There the friars assembled
at the sound of the bell, which rang for the first Mass of the Carmelite Reform (Reforma, i.
c. xlvi. section 1).

14. They were Dona Ines and Dona Ana de Tapia, cousins of the Saint.  There were present also
Don Gonzalo de Aranda, Don Francisco Salcedo, Julian of Avila, priest; Dona Juana de Ahumada,
the Saint's sister; with her husband, Juan de Ovalle. The Saint herself retained her own habit,
making no change, because she had not the permission of her superiors (Reforma, i. c. xlvi.
section 2).

15. Ch. xxxiii. section 13.

16. Ch. xxxiii. section 3.

17. The first of these was Antonia de Henao, a penitent of St. Peter of Alcantara, and who
wished to enter a religious house far away from Avila, her home.  St. Peter kept her for St.
Teresa. She was called from this day forth Antonia of the Holy Ghost. The second was Maria
de la Paz, brought up by Dona Guiomar de Ulloa.  Her name was Maria of the Cross.  The third
was Ursola de los Santos.  She retained her family name as Ursola of the Saints.  It was Gaspar
Daza who brought her to the Saint. The fourth was Maria de Avila, sister of Julian the priest,
and she was called Mary of St. Joseph.  It was at this house, too, that the Saint herself exchanged
her ordinary designation of Dona Teresa de Ahumada for Teresa of Jesus (Reforma, i. c. xlvi.
section 2).

18. See Foundations, ch. ii. section 1, and ch. xxxi, section 1.

19. Ch. xxxiii. sections 1, 2.

20. Of the Incarnation.

21. F. Domingo Banes, the great commentator on St. Thomas. On the margin of the MS., Banes
has with his own hand written: "This was at the end of August, 1562.  I was present, and gave
this opinion.  I am writing this in May" (the day of the month is not legible) "1575, and the
mother has now founded nine monasteries en gran religion" (De la Fuente).  At this time Banes
did not know, and had never seen, the Saint; he undertook her defence simply because he saw
that her intentions were good, and the means she made use of for founding the monastery lawful,
seeing that she had received the commandment to do so from the Pope. Banes testifies thus in
the depositions made in Salamanca in 1591 in the Saint's process.  See vol. ii. p. 376 of Don
Vicente's edition.

22. See Ch. xxxix. section 25.

23. Gonzalo de Aranda (De la Fuente).

24. Don Francisco de Salcedo (ibid.).

25. Ch. xxiii. section 6; Gaspar Daza (ibid.).

26. He died Oct. 18, 1562.

27. Ch. xxvii. section 21.

28. "El Padre Presentado, Dominico.  Presentado en algunas Religiones es cierto titulo de grado
que es respeto del Maestro como Licenciado" (Cobarruvias, in voce Presente).  The father was
Fra Pedro Ibanez.  See ch. xxxviii. section 15.

29. From the monastery of the Incarnation.  These were Ana of St. John, Ana of All the Angels,
Maria Isabel, and Isabel of St. Paul.  St. Teresa was a simple nun, living under obedience
to the prioress of St. Joseph, Ana of St. John, and intended so to remain.  But the nuns applied
to the Bishop of Avila and to the Provincial of the Order, who, listening to the complaints
of the sisters, compelled the Saint to be their prioress.  See Reforma, i. c. xlix. section 4.

30. Mid-Lent of 1563.

31. See Way of Perfection, ch. ii.

32. "Jejunium singulis diebus, exceptis Dominicis, observetis a Festo Exaltationis Sanctae
Crucis usque ad diem Dominicae Resurrectionis, nisi infirmitas vel debilitas corporis, aut
alia justa causa, jejunium solvi suadeat; quia necessitas non habet legem.  Ab esu carnium
abstineatis, nisi pro infirmitatis aut debilitatis remedio sint sumantur."  That is the tenth
section of the rule.

33. See ch. xxxv. section 1.  Maria of Jesus had founded her house in Alcala de Henares; but
the austerities practised in it, and the absence of the religious mitigations which long experience
had introduced, were too much for the fervent nuns there assembled.  Maria of Jesus begged
Dona Leonor de Mascarenas to persuade St. Teresa to come to Alcala.  The Saint went to the
monastery, and was received there with joy, and even entreated to take the house under her
own government (Reforma, ii. c. x. sections 3, 4).

1. It is painful to me to recount more of the graces which our Lord gave me than these already
spoken of; and they are so many, that nobody can believe they were ever given to one so wicked:
but in obedience to our Lord, who has commanded me to do it, [1] and you, my fathers, I will
speak of some of them to His glory. May it please His Majesty it may be to the profit of some
soul! For if our Lord has been thus gracious to so--miserable a thing as myself, what will
He be to those who shall serve Him truly? Let all people resolve to please His Majesty, seeing
that He gives such pledges as these even in this life. [2]

2. In the first place, it must be understood that, in those graces which God bestows on the
soul, there are diverse degrees of joy: for in some visions the joy and sweetness and comfort
of them so far exceed those of others, that I am amazed at the different degrees of fruition
even in this life; for it happens that the joy and consolation which God gives in a vision
or a trance are so different, that it seems impossible for the soul to be able to desire anything
more in this world: and, so, in fact, the soul does not desire, nor would it ask for, a greater
joy. Still, since our Lord has made me understand how great a difference there is in heaven
itself between the fruition of one and that of another, I see clearly enough that here also,
when our Lord wills, He gives not by measure; [3] and so I wish that I myself observed no measure
in serving His Majesty, and in using my whole life and strength and health therein; and I would
not have any fault of mine rob me of the slightest degree of fruition.

3. And so I say that if I were asked which I preferred, to endure all the trials of the world
until the end of it, and then receive one slight degree of glory additional, or without any
suffering of any kind to enter into glory of a slightly lower degree, I would accept--oh, how
willingly!--all those trials for one slight degree of fruition in the contemplation of the
greatness of God; for I know that he who understands Him best, loves Him and praises Him best.
I do not mean that I should not be satisfied, and consider myself most blessed, to be in heaven,
even if I should be in the lowest place; for as I am one who had that place in hell, it would
be a great mercy of our Lord to admit me at all; and may it please His Majesty to bring me
thither, and take away His eyes from beholding my grievous sins. What I mean is this,--if it
were in my power, even if it cost me everything, and our Lord gave me the grace to endure much
affliction, I would not through any fault of mine lose one degree of glory.  Ah, wretched that
I am, who by so many faults had forfeited all!

4. It is also to be observed that, in every vision or revelation which our Lord in His mercy
sent me, a great gain accrued to my soul, and that in some of the visions this gain was very
great. The vision of Christ left behind an impression of His exceeding beauty, and it remains
with me to this day.  One vision alone of Him is enough to effect this; what, then, must all
those visions have done, which our Lord in His mercy sent me? One exceedingly great blessing
has resulted therefrom, and it is this,--I had one very grievous fault, which was the source
of much evil; namely, whenever I found anybody well disposed towards myself, and I liked him,
I used to have such an affection for him as compelled me always to remember and think of him,
though I had no intention of offending God: however, I was pleased to see him, to think of
him and of his good qualities.  All this was so hurtful, that it brought my soul to the very
verge of destruction.

5. But ever since I saw the great beauty [4] of our Lord, I never saw any one who in comparison
with Him seemed even endurable, or that could occupy my thoughts.  For if I but turn mine eyes
inwardly for a moment to the contemplation of the image which I have within me, I find myself
so free, that from that instant everything I see is loathsome in comparison with the excellences
and graces of which I had a vision in our Lord.  Neither is there any sweetness, nor any kind
of pleasure, which I can make any account of, compared with that which comes from hearing but
one word from His divine mouth.  What, then, must it be when I hear so many?  I look upon it
as impossible--unless our Lord, for my sins, should permit the loss of this remembrance--that
I should have the power to occupy myself with anything in such a way as that I should not instantly
recover my liberty by thinking of our Lord.

6. This has happened to me with some of my confessors, for I always have a great affection
for those who have the direction of my soul.  As I really saw in them only the representatives
of God, I thought my will was always there where it is most occupied; and as I felt very safe
in the matter, I always showed myself glad to see them. [5]  They, on the other hand, servants
of God, and fearing Him, were afraid that I was attaching and binding myself too much to them,
though in a holy way, and treated me with rudeness.  This took place after I had become so
ready to obey them; for before that time I had no affection whatever for them.  I used to laugh
to myself, when I saw how much they were deceived.  Though I was not always putting before
them how little I was attached to anybody, as clearly as I was convinced of it myself, yet
I did assure them of it; and they, in their further relations with me, acknowledged how much
I owed to our Lord in the matter.  These suspicions of me always arose in the beginning.

7. My love of, and trust in, our Lord, after I had seen Him in a vision, began to grow, for
my converse with Him was so continual. I saw that, though He was God, He was man also; that
He is not surprised at the frailties of men, that He understands our miserable nature, liable
to fall continually, because of the first sin, for the reparation of which He had come.  I
could speak to Him as to a friend, though He is my Lord, because I do not consider Him as one
of our earthly Lords, who affect a power they do not possess, who give audience at fixed hours,
and to whom only certain persons may speak.  If a poor man have any business with these, it
will cost him many goings and comings, and currying favour with others, together with much
pain and labour before he can speak to them.  Ah, if such a one has business with a king! 
Poor people, not of gentle blood, cannot approach him, for they must apply to those who are
his friends, and certainly these are not persons who tread the world under their feet; for
they who do this speak the truth, fear nothing, and ought to fear nothing; they are not courtiers,
because it is not the custom of a court, where they must be silent about those things they
dislike, must not even dare to think about them, lest they should fall into disgrace.

8. O King of glory, and Lord of all kings! oh, how Thy kingly dignity is not hedged about by
trifles of this kind!  Thy kingdom is for ever.  We do not require chamberlains to introduce
us into Thy presence.  The very vision of Thy person shows us at once that Thou alone art to
be called Lord.  Thy Majesty is so manifest that there is no need of a retinue or guard to
make us confess that Thou art King.  An earthly king without attendants would be hardly acknowledged;
and though he might wish ever so much to be recognised, people will not own him when he appears
as others; it is necessary that his dignity should be visible, if people are to believe in
it.  This is reason enough why kings should affect so much state; for if they had none, no
one would respect them; this their semblance of power is not in themselves, and their authority
must come to them from others.

9. O my Lord!  O my King! who can describe Thy Majesty?  It is impossible not to see that Thou
art Thyself the great Ruler of all, that the beholding of Thy Majesty fills men with awe. 
But I am filled with greater awe, O my Lord, when I consider Thy humility, and the love Thou
hast for such as I am.  We can converse and speak with Thee about everything whenever we will;
and when we lose our first fear and awe at the vision of Thy Majesty, we have a greater dread
of offending Thee,--not arising out of the fear of punishment, O my Lord, for that is as nothing
in comparison with the loss of Thee!

10. Thus far of the blessings of this vision, without speaking of others, which abide in the
soul when it is past.  If it be from God, the fruits thereof show it, when the soul receives
light; for, as I have often said, [6] the will of our Lord is that the soul should be in darkness,
and not see this light.  It is, therefore, nothing to be wondered at that I, knowing myself
to be so wicked as I am, should be afraid.

11. It is only just now it happened to me to be for eight days in a state wherein it seemed
that I did not, and could not, confess my obligations to God, or remember His mercies; but
my soul was so stupefied, and occupied with I know not what nor how: not that I had any bad
thoughts; only I was so incapable of good thoughts, that I was laughing at myself, and even
rejoicing to see how mean a soul can be if God is not always working in it. [7]  The soul sees
clearly that God is not away from it in this state, and that it is not in those  great tribulations
which I have spoken of as being occasionally mine.  Though it heaps up fuel, and does the little
it can do of itself, it cannot make the fire of the love of God burn: it is a great mercy that
even the smoke is visible, showing that it is not altogether quenched.  Our Lord will return
and kindle it; and until then the soul--though it may lose its breath in blowing and arranging
the fuel--seems to be doing nothing but putting it out more and more.

12. I believe that now the best course is to be absolutely resigned, confessing that we can
do nothing, and so apply ourselves--as I said before [8]--to something else which is meritorious.
Our Lord, it may be, takes away from the soul the power of praying, that it may betake itself
to something else, and learn by experience how little it can do in its own strength.

13. It is true I have this day been rejoicing in our Lord, and have dared to complain of His
Majesty.  I said unto Him: How is it, O my God, that it is not enough for Thee to detain me
in this wretched life, and that I should have to bear with it for the love of Thee, and be
willing to live where everything hinders the fruition of Thee; where, besides, I must eat and
sleep, transact business, and converse with every one, and all for Thy love? how is it, then,--for
Thou well knowest, O my Lord, all this to be the greatest torment unto me,--that, in the rare
moments when I am with Thee, Thou hidest Thyself from me?  How is this consistent with Thy
compassion?  How can that love Thou hast for me endure this?  I believe, O Lord, if it were
possible for me to hide myself from Thee, as Thou hidest Thyself from me--I think and believe
so--such is Thy love, that Thou wouldest not endure it at my hands.  But Thou art with me,
and seest me always.  O my Lord, I beseech Thee look to this; it must not be; a wrong is done
to one who loves Thee so much.

14. I happened to utter these words, and others of the same kind, when I should have been thinking
rather how my place in hell was pleasant in comparison with the place I deserved.  But now
and then my love makes me foolish, so that I lose my senses; only it is with all the sense
I have that I make these complaints, and our Lord bears it all.  Blessed be so good a King!

15. Can we be thus bold with the kings of this world?  And yet I am not surprised that we dare
not thus speak to a king, for it is only reasonable that men should be afraid of him, or even
to the great lords who are his representatives.  The world is now come to such a state, that
men's lives ought to be longer than they are if we are to learn all the new customs and ceremonies
of good breeding, and yet spend any time in the service of God.  I bless myself at the sight
of what is going on.  The fact is, I did not know how I was to live when I came into this house.
Any negligence in being much more ceremonious with people than they deserve is not taken as
a jest; on the contrary, they look upon it as an insult deliberately offered; so that it becomes
necessary for you to satisfy them of your good intentions, if there happens, as I have said,
to have been any negligence; and even then, God grant they may believe you.

16. I repeat it,--I certainly did not know how to live; for my poor soul was worn out.  It
is told to employ all its thoughts always on God, and that it is necessary to do so if it would
avoid many dangers.  On the other hand, it finds it will not do to fail in any one point of
the world's law, under the penalty of affronting those who look upon these things as touching
their honour.  I was worn out in unceasingly giving satisfaction to people; for, though I tried
my utmost, I could not help failing in many ways in matters which, as I have said, are not
slightly thought of in the world.

17. Is it true that in religious houses no explanations are necessary, for it is only reasonable
we should be excused these observances?  Well, that is not so; for there are people who say
that monasteries ought to be courts in politeness and instruction.  I certainly cannot understand
it.  I thought that perhaps some saint may have said that they ought to be courts to teach
those who wish to be the courtiers of heaven, and that these people misunderstood their meaning;
for if a man be careful to please God continually, and to hate the world, as he ought to do,
I do not see how he can be equally careful to please those who live in the world in these matters
which are continually changing.  If they could be learnt once for all, it might be borne with:
but as to the way of addressing letters, there ought to be a professor's chair founded, from
which lectures should be given, so to speak, teaching us how to do it; for the paper should
on one occasion be left blank in one corner, and on another in another corner; and a man must
be addressed as the illustrious who was not hitherto addressed as the magnificent.

18. I know not where this will stop: I am not yet fifty, and yet I have seen so many changes
during my life, that I do not know how to live.  What will they do who are only just born,
and who may live many years?  Certainly I am sorry for those spiritual people who, for certain
holy purposes, are obliged to live in the world; the cross they have to carry is a dreadful
one.  If they could all agree together, and make themselves ignorant, and be willing to be
considered so in these sciences, they would set themselves free from much trouble.  But what
folly am I about! from speaking of the greatness of God I am come to speak of the meanness
of the world!  Since our Lord has given me the grace to quit it, I wish to leave it altogether.
Let them settle these matters who maintain these follies with so much labour. God grant that
in the next life, where there is no changing, we may not have to pay for them!  Amen.

1. The Saint, having interrupted her account of her interior life in order to give the history
of the foundation of the monastery of St. Joseph, Avila,--the first house of the Reformed Carmelites,--here
resumes that account broken off at the end of section 10 of ch. xxxii.

2. Ephes. i. 14: "Pignus haereditatis nostrae."

3. St. John iii. 34: "Non enim ad mensuram dat Deus spiritum."

4. Ch. xxviii. sections 1-5.

5. See ch. xl. section 24; Way of Perfection, ch. vii. section 1; but ch. iv. of the previous
editions.

6. See ch. xx. section 14.

7. See ch. xxx. section 19.

8. See ch. xxx. sections 18, 25.

Chapter XXXVIII.

Certain Heavenly Secrets, Visions, and Revelations.  The Effects of Them in Her Soul.

1. One night I was so unwell that I thought I might be excused making my prayer; so I took
my rosary, that I might employ myself in vocal prayer, trying not to be recollected in my understanding,
though outwardly I was recollected, being in my oratory.  These little precautions are of no
use when our Lord will have it otherwise.  I remained there but a few moments thus, when I
was rapt in spirit with such violence that I could make no resistance whatever.  It seemed
to me that I was taken up to heaven; and the first persons I saw there were my father and my
mother.  I saw other things also; but the time was no longer than that in which the Ave Maria
might be said, and I was amazed at it, looking on it all as too great a grace for me.  But
as to the shortness of the time, it might have been longer, only it was all done in a very
short space.

2. I was afraid it might be an illusion; but as I did not think so, I knew not what to do,
because I was very much ashamed to go to my confessor about it.  It was not, as it seemed to
me, because I was humble, but because I thought he would laugh at me, and say: Oh, what a St.
Paul!--she sees the things of heaven; or a St. Jerome.  And because these glorious Saints had
had such visions, I was so much the more afraid, and did nothing but cry; for I did not think
it possible for me to see what they saw. At last, though I felt it exceedingly, I went to my
confessor; for I never dared to keep secret anything of this kind, however much it distressed
me to speak of them, owing to the great fear I had of being deceived.  When my confessor saw
how much I was suffering, he consoled me greatly, and gave me plenty of good reasons why I
should have no fear.

3. It happened, also, as time went on, and it happens now from time to time, that our Lord
showed me still greater secrets. The soul, even if it would, has neither the means not the
power to see more than what He shows it; and so, each time, I saw nothing more than what our
Lord was pleased to let me see. But such was the vision, that the least part of it was enough
to make my soul amazed, and to raise it so high that it esteems and counts as nothing all the
things of this life.  I wish I could describe, in some measure, the smallest portion of what
I saw; but when I think of doing it, I find it impossible; for the mere difference alone between
the light we have here below, and that which is seen in a vision,--both being light,--is so
great, that there is no comparison between them; the brightness of the sun itself seems to
be something exceedingly loathsome.  In a word, the imagination, however strong it may be,
can neither conceive nor picture to itself this light, nor any one of the things which our
Lord showed me in a joy so supreme that it cannot be described; for then all the senses exult
so deeply and so sweetly that no description is possible; and so it is better to say nothing more.

4. I was in this state once for more than an hour, our Lord showing me wonderful things.  He
seemed as if He would not leave me.  He said to me, "See, My daughter, what they lose who are
against Me; do not fail to tell them of it."  Ah, my Lord, how little good my words will do
them, who are made blind by their own conduct, if Thy Majesty will not give them light!  Some,
to whom Thou hast given it, there are, who have profited by the knowledge of Thy greatness;
but as they see it revealed to one so wicked and base as I am, I look upon it as a great thing
if there should be any found to believe me.  Blessed be Thy name, and blessed be Thy compassion;
for I can trace, at least in my own soul, a visible improvement.  Afterwards I wished I had
continued in that trance for ever, and that I had not returned to consciousness, because of
an abiding sense of contempt for everything here below; all seemed to be filth; and I see how
meanly we employ ourselves who are detained on earth.

5. When I was staying with that lady of whom I have been speaking, [1] it happened to me once
when I was suffering from my heart,--for, as I have said, [2] I suffered greatly at one time,
though not so much now,--that she, being a person of great charity, brought out her jewels
set in gold, and precious stones of great price, and particularly a diamond, which she valued
very much.  She thought this might amuse me; but I laughed to myself, and was very sorry to
see what men made much of; for I thought of what our Lord had laid up for us, and considered
how impossible it was for me, even if I made the effort, to have any appreciation whatever
of such things, provided our Lord did not permit me to forget what He was keeping for us.

6. A soul in this state attains to a certain freedom, which is so complete that none can understand
it who does not possess it. It is a real and true detachment, independent of our efforts; God
effects it all Himself; for His Majesty reveals the truth in such a way, that it remains so
deeply impressed on our souls as to make it clear that we of ourselves could not thus acquire
it in so short a time.

7. The fear of death, also, was now very slight in me, who had always been in great dread of
it; now it seems to me that death is a very light thing for one who serves God, because the
soul is in a moment delivered thereby out of its prison, and at rest. This elevation of the
spirit, and the vision of things so high, in these trances seem to me to have a great likeness
to the flight of the soul from the body, in that it finds itself in a moment in the possession
of these good things.  We put aside the agonies of its dissolution, of which no great account
is to be made; for they who love God in truth, and are utterly detached from the things of
this life, must die with the greater sweetness.

8. It seems to me, also, that the rapture was a great help to recognise our true home, and
to see that we are pilgrims here; [3] it is a great thing to see what is going on there and
to know where we have to live; for if a person has to go and settle in another country, it
is a great help to him, in undergoing the fatigues of his journey, that he has discovered it
to be a country where he may live in the most perfect peace. Moreover, it makes it easy for
us to think of the things of heaven, and to have our conversation there. [4]  It is a great
gain, because the mere looking up to heaven makes the soul recollected; for as our Lord has
been pleased to reveal heaven in some degree, my soul dwells upon it in thought; and it happens
occasionally that they who are about me, and with whom I find consolation, are those whom I
know to be living in heaven, and that I look upon them only as really alive; while those who
are on earth are so dead, that the whole world seems unable to furnish me with companions,
particularly when these impetuosities of love are upon me. Everything seems a dream, and what
I see with the bodily eyes an illusion.  What I have seen with the eyes of the soul is that
which my soul desires; and as it finds itself far away from those things, that is death.

9. In a word, it is a very great mercy which our Lord gives to that soul to which He grants
the like visions, for they help it in much, and also in carrying a heavy cross, since nothing
satisfies it, and everything is against it; and if our Lord did not now and then suffer these
visions to be forgotten, though they recur again and again to the memory, I know not how life
could be borne.  May He be blessed and praised for ever and ever! I implore His Majesty by
that Blood which His Son shed for me, now that, of His good pleasure, I know something of these
great blessings, and begin to have the fruition of them, that it may not be with me as it was
with Lucifer, who by his own fault forfeited it all.  I beseech Thee, for Thine own sake, not
to suffer this; for I am at times in great fear, though at others, and most frequently, the
mercy of God reassures me, for He who has delivered me from so many sins will not withdraw
His hand from under me, and let me be lost.  I pray you, my father, to beg this grace for me
always.

10. The mercies, then, hitherto described, are not, in my opinion, so great as those which
I am now going to speak of, on many accounts, because of the great blessings they have brought
with them, and because of the great fortitude which my soul derived from them; and yet every
one separately considered is so great, that there is nothing to be compared with them.

11. One day--it was the eve of Pentecost--I went after Mass to a very lonely spot, where I
used to pray very often, and began to read about the feast in the book of a Carthusian; [5]
and reading of the marks by which beginners, proficients, and the perfect may know that they
have the Holy Ghost, it seemed to me, when I had read of these three states, that by the goodness
of God, so far as I could understand, the Holy Ghost was with me.  I praised God for it; and
calling to mind how on another occasion, when I read this, I was very deficient,--for I saw
most distinctly at that time how deficient I was then from what I saw I was now,--I recognised
herein the great mercy of our Lord to me, and so began to consider the place which my sins
had earned for me in hell, and praised God exceedingly, because it seemed as if I did not know
my own soul again, so great a change had come over it.

12. While thinking of these things, my soul was carried away with extreme violence, and I knew
not why.  It seemed as if it would have gone forth out of the body, for it could not contain
itself, nor was it able to hope for so great a good.  The impetuosity was so excessive that
I had no power left, and, as I think, different from what I had been used to.  I knew not what
ailed my soul, nor what it desired, for it was so changed.  I leaned for support, for I could
not sit, because my natural strength had utterly failed.

13. Then I saw over my head a dove, very different from those we usually see, for it had not
the same plumage, but wings formed of small shells shining brightly.  It was larger than an
ordinary dove; I thought I heard the rustling of its wings.  It hovered above me during the
space of an Ave Maria.  But such was the state of my soul, that in losing itself it lost also
the sight of the dove.  My spirit grew calm with such a guest; and yet, as I think, a grace
so wonderful might have disturbed and frightened it; and as it began to rejoice in the vision,
it was delivered from all fear, and with the joy came peace, my soul continuing entranced.
The joy of this rapture was exceedingly great; and for the rest of that festal time I was so
amazed and bewildered that I did not know what I was doing, nor how I could have received so
great a grace.  I neither heard nor saw anything, so to speak, because of my great inward joy.
From that day forth I perceived in myself a very great progress in the highest love of God,
together with a great increase in the strength of my virtues.  May He be blessed and praised
for ever!  Amen.

14. On another occasion I saw that very dove above the head of one of the Dominican fathers;
but it seemed to me that the rays and brightness of the wings were far greater.  I understood
by this that he was to draw souls unto God.

15. At another time I saw our Lady putting a cope of exceeding whiteness on that Licentiate
of the same Order, of whom I have made mention more than once. [6]  She told me that she gave
him that cope in consideration of the service he had rendered her by helping to found this
house, [7] that it was a sign that she would preserve his soul pure for the future, and that
he should not fall into mortal sin.  I hold it for certain that so it came to pass, for he
died within a few years; his death and the rest of his life were so penitential, his whole
life and death so holy, that, so far as anything can be known, there cannot be a doubt on the
subject.  One of the friars present at his death told me that, before he breathed his last,
he said to him that St. Thomas was with him. [8]  He died in great joy, longing to depart out
of this land of exile.

16. Since then he has appeared to me more than once in exceedingly great glory, and told me
certain things.  He was so given to prayer, that when he was dying, and would have interrupted
it if he could because of his great weakness, he was not able to do so; for he was often in
a trance.  He wrote to me not long before he died, and asked me what he was to do; for as soon
as he had said Mass he fell into a trance which lasted a long time, and which he could not
hinder.  At last God gave him the reward of the many services of his whole life.

17. I had certain visions, too, of the great graces which our Lord bestowed upon that rector
of the Society of Jesus, of whom I have spoken already more than once; [9] but I will not say
anything of them now, lest I should be too tedious.  It was his lot once to be in great trouble,
to suffer great persecution and distress.  One day, when I was hearing Mass, I saw Christ on
the Cross at the elevation of the Host.  He spoke certain words to me, which I was to repeat
to that father for his comfort, together with others, which were to warn him beforehand of
what was coming, and to remind him of what He had suffered on his behalf, and that he must
prepare for suffering.  This gave him great consolation and courage; and everything came to
pass afterwards as our Lord had told me.

18. I have seen great things of members of the Order to which this father belongs, which is
the Society of Jesus, and of the whole Order itself; I have occasionally seen them in heaven
with white banners in their hands, and I have had other most wonderful visions, as I am saying,
about them, and therefore have a great veneration for this Order; for I have had a great deal
to do with those who are of it, and I see that their lives are conformed to that which our
Lord gave me to understand about them.

19. One night, when I was in prayer, our Lord spoke to me certain words, whereby He made me
remember the great wickedness of my past life.  They filled me with shame and distress; for
though they were not spoken with severity, they caused a feeling and a painfulness which were
too much for me: and we feel that we make greater progress in the knowledge of ourselves when
we hear one of these words, than we can make by a meditation of many days on our own misery,
because these words impress the truth upon us at the same time in such a way that we cannot
resist it.  He set before me the former inclinations of my will to vanities, and told me to
make much of the desire I now had that my will, which had been so ill employed, should be fixed
on Him, and that He would accept it.

20. On other occasions He told me to remember how I used to think it an honourable thing to
go against His honour; and, again, to remember my debt to Him, for when I was most rebellious
He was bestowing His graces upon me.  If I am doing anything wrong--and my wrong-doings are
many--His Majesty makes me see it in such a way that I am utterly confounded; and as I do so
often, that happens often also.  I have been found fault with by my confessors occasionally;
and on betaking myself to prayer for consolation, have received a real reprimand.

21. To return to what I was speaking of.  When our Lord made me remember my wicked life, I
wept; for as I considered that I had then never done any good, I thought He might be about
to bestow upon me some special grace; because most frequently, when I receive any particular
mercy from our Lord, it is when I have been previously greatly humiliated, in order that I
may the more clearly see how far I am from deserving it.  I think our Lord must do it for that end.

22. Almost immediately after this I was so raised up in spirit that I thought myself to be,
as it were, out of the body; at least, I did not know that I was living in it. [10]  I had
a vision of the most Sacred Humanity in exceeding glory, greater than I had ever seen It in
before.  I beheld It in a wonderful and clear way in the bosom of the Father.  I cannot tell
how it was, for I saw myself, without seeing, as it seemed to me, in the presence of God. 
My amazement was such that I remained, as I believe, some days before I could recover myself.
I had continually before me, as present, the Majesty of the Son of God, though not so distinctly
as in the vision.  I understood this well enough; but the vision remained so impressed on my
imagination, that I could not get rid of it for some time, though it had lasted but a moment;
it is a great comfort to me, and also a great blessing.

23. I have had this vision on three other occasions, and it is, I think, the highest vision
of all the visions which our Lord in His mercy showed me.  The fruits of it are the very greatest,
for it seems to purify the soul in a wonderful way, and destroy, as it were utterly, altogether
the strength of our sensual nature. It is a grand flame of fire, which seems to burn up and
annihilate all the desires of this life.  For though now--glory be to God!--I had no desire
after vanities, I saw clearly in the vision how all things are vanity, and how hollow are all
the dignities of earth; it was a great lesson, teaching me to raise up my desires to the Truth
alone.  It impresses on the soul a sense of the presence of God such as I cannot in any way
describe, only it is very different from that which it is in our own power to acquire on earth.
It fills the soul with profound astonishment at its own daring, and at any one else being able
to dare to offend His most awful Majesty.

24. I must have spoken now and then of the effects of visions, [11] and of other matters of
the same kind, and I have already said that the blessings they bring with them are of various
degrees; but those of this vision are the highest of all. When I went to Communion once I called
to mind the exceeding great majesty of Him I had seen, and considered that it was He who is
present in the most Holy Sacrament, and very often our Lord was pleased to show Himself to
me in the Host; the very hairs on my head stood, [12] and I thought I should come to nothing.

25. O my Lord! ah, if Thou didst not throw a veil over Thy greatness, who would dare, being
so foul and miserable, to come in contact with Thy great Majesty?  Blessed be Thou, O Lord;
may the angels and all creation praise Thee, who orderest all things according to the measure
of our weakness, so that, when we have the fruition of Thy sovereign mercies, Thy great power
may not terrify us, so that we dare not, being a frail and miserable race, persevere in that
fruition!

26. It might happen to us as it did to the labourer--I know it to be a certain fact--who found
a treasure beyond his expectations, which were mean.  When he saw himself in possession of
it, he was seized with melancholy, which by degrees brought him to his grave through simple
distress and anxiety of mind, because he did not know what to do with his treasure.  If he
had not found it all at once, and if others had given him portions of it by degrees, maintaining
him thereby, he might have been more happy than he had been in his poverty, nor would it have
cost him his life.

27. O Thou Treasure of the poor! how marvellously Thou sustainest souls, showing to them, not
all at once, but by little and little, the abundance of Thy riches!  When I behold Thy great
Majesty hidden beneath that which is so slight as the Host is, I am filled with wonder, ever
since that vision, at Thy great wisdom; and I know not how it is that our Lord gives me the
strength and courage necessary to draw near to him, were it not that He who has had such compassion
on me, and still has, gives me strength, nor would it be possible for me to be silent, or refrain
from making known marvels so great.

28. What must be the thoughts of a wretched person such as I am, full of abominations, and
who has spent her life with so little fear of God, when she draws near to our Lord's great
Majesty, at the moment He is pleased to show Himself to my soul?  How can I open my mouth,
that has uttered so many words against Him, to receive that most glorious Body, purity and
compassion itself? The love that is visible in His most beautiful Face, sweet and tender, pains
and distresses the soul, because it has not served Him, more than all the terrors of His Majesty.
What should have been my thoughts, then, on those two occasions when I saw what I have described?
Truly, O my Lord and my joy, I am going to say that in some way, in these great afflictions
of my soul, I have done something in Thy service.  Ah!  I know not what I am saying, for I
am writing this as if the words were not mine, [13] because I am troubled, and in some measure
beside myself, when I call these things to remembrance.  If these thoughts were really mine,
I might well say that I had done something for Thee, O my Lord; but as I can have no good thought
if Thou givest it not, no thanks are due to me; I am the debtor, O Lord, and it is Thou who
art the offended One.

29. Once, when I was going to Communion, I saw with the eyes of the soul, more distinctly than
with those of the body, two devils of most hideous shape; their horns seemed to encompass the
throat of the poor priest; and I beheld my Lord, in that great majesty of which I have spoken,
[14] held in the hands of that priest, in the Host he was about to give me.  It was plain that
those hands were those of a sinner, and I felt that the soul of that priest was in mortal sin.
What must it be, O my Lord, to look upon Thy beauty amid shapes so hideous!  The two devils
were so frightened and cowed in Thy presence, that they seemed as if they would have willingly
run away, hadst Thou but given them leave.  So troubled was I by the vision, that I knew not
how I could go to Communion. I was also in great fear, for I thought, if the vision was from
God, that His Majesty would not have allowed me to see the evil state of that soul. [15]

30. Our Lord Himself told me to pray for that priest; that He had allowed this in order that
I might understand the power of the words of consecration, and how God failed not to be present,
however wicked the priest might be who uttered them; and that I might see His great goodness
in that He left Himself in the very hands of His enemy, for my good and for the good of all.
I understood clearly how the priests are under greater obligations to be holy than other persons;
and what a horrible thing it is to receive this most Holy Sacrament unworthily, and how great
is the devil's dominion over a soul in mortal sin. It did me a great service, and made me fully
understand what I owe to God.  May He be blessed for evermore!

31. At another time I had a vision of a different kind, which frightened me very much.  I was
in a place where a certain person died, who as I understood had led a very bad life, and that
for many years.  But he had been ill for two years, and in some respects seemed to have reformed.
He died without confession; nevertheless, I did not think he would be damned.  When the body
had been wrapped in the winding-sheet, I saw it laid hold of by a multitude of devils, who
seemed to toss it to and fro, and also to treat it with great cruelty.  I was terrified at
the sight, for they dragged it about with great hooks.  But when I saw it carried to the grave
with all the respect and ceremoniousness common to all, I began to think of the goodness of
God, who would not allow that person to be dishonoured, but would have the fact of his being
His enemy concealed.

32. I was almost out of my senses at the sight.  During the whole of the funeral service, I
did not see one of the evil spirits. Afterwards, when the body was about to be laid in the
grave, so great a multitude of them was therein waiting to receive it, that I was beside myself
at the sight, and it required no slight courage on my part not to betray my distress. I thought
of the treatment which that soul would receive, when the devils had such power over the wretched
body.  Would to God that all who live in mortal sin might see what I then saw,--it was a fearful
sight; it would go, I believe, a great way towards making them lead better lives.

33. All this made me know more of what I owe to God, and of the evils from which He has delivered
me.  I was in great terror. I spoke of it to my confessor, and I thought it might be an illusion
of Satan, in order to take away my good opinion of that person, who yet was not accounted a
very good Christian. The truth is, that, whether it was an illusion or not, it makes me afraid
whenever I think of it.

34. Now that I have begun to speak of the visions I had concerning the dead, I will mention
some matters which our Lord was pleased to reveal to me in relation to certain souls.  I will
confine myself to a few for the sake of brevity, and because they are not necessary; I mean
that they are not for our profit. They told me that one who had been our Provincial--he was
then of another province--was dead.  He was a man of great virtue, with whom I had had a great
deal to do, and to whom I was under many obligations for certain kindnesses shown me.  When
I heard that he was dead, I was exceedingly troubled, because I trembled for his salvation,
seeing that he had been superior for twenty years. That is what I dread very much; for the
cure of souls seems to me to be full of danger.  I went to an oratory in great distress, and
gave up to him all the good I had ever done in my whole life,--it was little enough,--and prayed
our Lord that His merits might fill up what was wanting, in order that this soul might be delivered
up from purgatory.

35. While I was thus praying to our Lord as well as I could, he seemed to me to rise up from
the depths of the earth on my right hand, and I saw him ascend to heaven in exceeding great
joy. He was a very old man then, but I saw him as if he were only thirty years old, and I thought
even younger, and there was a brightness in his face.  This vision passed away very quickly;
but I was so exceedingly comforted by it, that I could never again mourn his death, although
many persons were distressed at it, for he was very much beloved.  So greatly comforted was
my soul, that nothing disturbed it, neither could I doubt the truth of the vision; I mean that
it was no illusion.

36. I had this vision about a fortnight after he was dead; nevertheless, I did not omit to
obtain prayers for him and I prayed myself, only I could not pray with the same earnestness
that I should have done if I had not seen that vision.  For when our Lord showed him thus to
me, it seemed to me afterwards, when I prayed for him to His Majesty,--and I could not help
it,--that I was like one who gave alms to a rich man.  Later on I heard an account of the death
he died in our Lord--he was far away from here; it was one of such great edification, that
he left all wondering to see how recollected, how penitent, and how humble he was when he died.

37. A nun, who was a great servant of God, died in this house. On the next day one of the sisters
was reciting the lesson in the Office of the Dead, which was said in choir for that nun's soul,
and I was standing myself to assist her in singing the versicle, when, in the middle of the
lesson, I saw the departed nun as I believe, in a vision; her soul seemed to rise on my right
hand like the soul of the Provincial, and ascend to heaven. This vision was not imaginary,
like the preceding, but like those others of which I have spoken before; [16] it is not less
certain, however, than the other visions I had.

38. Another nun died in this same house of mine, she was about eighteen or twenty years of
age, and had always been sickly. She was a great servant of God, attentive in choir, and a
person of great virtue.  I certainly thought that she would not go to purgatory, on account
of her exceeding merits, because the infirmities under which she had laboured were many.  While
I was saying the Office, before she was buried,--she had been dead about four hours,--I saw
her rise in the same place and ascend to heaven.

39. I was once in one of the colleges of the Society of Jesus, and in one of those great sufferings
which, as I have said, [17] I occasionally had, and still have, both in soul and body, and
then so grievously that I was not able, as it seemed to me, to have even one good thought.
The night before, one of the brothers of that house had died in it; and I, as well as I could,
was commending his soul to God, and hearing the Mass which another father of that Society was
saying for him when I became recollected at once, and saw him go up to heaven in great glory,
and our Lord with him.  I understood that His Majesty went with him by way of special grace.

40. Another brother of our Order, a good friar, was very ill; and when I was at Mass, I became
recollected and saw him dead, entering into heaven without going through purgatory.  He died,
as I afterwards learned, at the very time of my vision.  I was amazed that he had not gone
to purgatory.  I understood that, having become a friar and carefully kept the rule, the Bulls
of the Order had been of use to him, so that he did not pass into purgatory.  I do not know
why I came to have this revealed to me; I think it must be because I was to learn that it is
not enough for a man to be a friar in his habit--I mean, to wear the habit--to attain to that
state of high perfection which that of a friar is.

41. I will speak no more of these things, because as I have just said, [18] there is no necessity
for it, though our Lord has been so gracious to me as to show me much.  But in all the visions
I had, I saw no souls escape purgatory except this Carmelite father, the holy friar Peter of
Alcantara, and that Dominican father of whom I spoke before. [19]  It pleased our Lord to let
me see the degree of glory to which some souls have been raised, showing them to me in the
places they occupy.  There is a great difference between one place and another.

1. Ch. xxxiv.  Dona Luisa de la Cerda, at Toledo.

2. Ch. iv. section 6.

3. 1 St. Peter ii. 11: "Advenas et peregrinos."

4. Philipp. iii. 20: "Nostra autem conversatio in coelis est."

5. The Life of Christ, by Ludolf of Saxony.

6. F. Pedro Ibanez.  See ch. xxxiii. section 5, ch. xxxvi. section 23.  "This father died Prior
of Trianos," is written on the margin of the MS. by F. Banes (De la Fuente).

7. St. Joseph, Avila, where St. Teresa was living at this time.

8. See below, section 41.

9. F. Gaspar de Salazar: see ch. xxxiii. section 9, ch. xxxiv. section 2.  It appears from
the 179th letter of the Saint (lett. 20, vol. i. of the Doblado edition) that F. Salazar was
reported to his Provincial, F. Juan Suarez, as having desire to quit the Society for the Carmelite
Order.

10. 2 Cor. xii. 2: "Sive in corpore nescio, sive extra corpus nescio."

11. See ch. xxviii.

12. Job iv. 15: "Inhorruerunt pili carnis meae."

13. The biographers of the Saint say that she often found, on returning from an ecstasy, certain
passages written, but not by herself; this seems to be alluded to here (De la Fuente).

14. Section 22.

15. St. John of the Cross, Ascent of Mount Carmel, bk. ii. ch. xxvi. vol. i. p. 183.

16. See ch. xxvii.

17. Ch. xxx. section 9.

18. Section 34.

19. Section 15.  Fr. Pedro Ibanez.

1. I was once importuning our Lord exceedingly to restore the sight of a person who had claims
upon me, and who was almost wholly blind.  I was very sorry for him, and afraid our Lord would
not hear me because of my sins.  He appeared to me as at other times, and began to show the
wound in His left hand; with the other He drew out the great nail that was in it, and it seemed
to me that, in drawing the nail, He tore the flesh. The greatness of the pain was manifest,
and I was very much distressed thereat.  He said to me, that He who had borne that for my sake
would still more readily grant what I asked Him, and that I was not to have any doubts about
it.  He promised me there was nothing I should ask that He would not grant; that He knew I
should ask nothing that was not for His glory, and that He would grant me what I was now praying
for.  Even during the time when I did not serve Him, I should find, if I considered it, I had
asked nothing that He had not granted in an ampler manner than I had known how to ask; how
much more amply still would He grant what I asked for, now that He knew I loved Him!  I was
not to doubt. I do not think that eight days passed before our Lord restored that person to
sight.  My confessor knew it forthwith.  It might be that it was not owing to my prayer; but,
as I had had the vision, I have a certain conviction that it was a grace accorded to me.  I
gave thanks to His Majesty.

2. Again, a person was exceedingly ill of a most painful disease; but, as I do not know what
it was, I do not describe it by its name here.  What he had gone through for two months was
beyond all endurance; and his pain was so great that he tore his own flesh.  My confessor,
the rector of whom I have spoken, [1] went to see him; he was very sorry for him, and told
me that I must anyhow go myself and visit him; he was one whom I might visit, for he was my
kinsman.  I went, and was moved to such a tender compassion for him that I began, with the
utmost importunity, to ask our Lord to restore him to health.  Herein I saw clearly how gracious
our Lord was to me, so far as I could judge; for immediately, the next day, he was completely
rid of that pain.

3. I was once in the deepest distress, because I knew that a person to whom I was under great
obligations was about to commit an act highly offensive to God and dishonourable to himself.
He was determined upon it.  I was so much harassed by this that I did not know what to do in
order to change his purpose; and it seemed to me as if nothing could be done.  I implored God,
from the bottom of my heart, to find a way to hinder it; but till I found it I could find no
relief for the pain I felt.  In my distress, I went to a very lonely hermitage,--one of those
belonging to this monastery,--in which there is a picture of Christ bound to the pillar; and
there, as I was imploring our Lord to grant me this grace, I heard a voice of exceeding gentleness,
speaking, as it were, in a whisper. [2]  My whole body trembled, for it made me afraid.  I
wished to understand what was said, but I could not, for it all passed away in a moment.

4. When my fears had subsided, and that was immediately, I became conscious of an inward calmness,
a joy and delight, which made me marvel how the mere hearing a voice,--I heard it with my bodily
ears,--without understanding a word, could have such an effect on the soul.  I saw by this
that my prayer was granted; and so it was; and I was freed from my anxieties about a matter
not yet accomplished, as it afterwards was, as completely as if I saw it done.  I told my confessors
of it, for I had two at this time, both of them learned men, and great servants of God.

5. I knew of a person who had resolved to serve God in all earnestness, and had for some days
given himself to prayer, in which he bad received many graces from our Lord, but who had abandoned
his good resolutions because of certain occasions of sin in which he was involved, and which
he would not avoid; they were extremely perilous.  This caused me the utmost distress, because
the person was one for whom I had a great affection, and one to whom I owed much.  For more
than a month I believe I did nothing else but pray to God for his conversion.  One day, when
I was in prayer, I saw a devil close by in a great rage, tearing to pieces some paper which
he had in his hands.  That sight consoled me greatly, because it seemed that my prayer had
been heard. So it was, as I learnt afterwards; for that person had made his confession with
great contrition, and returned to God so sincerely, that I trust in His Majesty he will always
advance further and further.  May He be blessed for ever!  Amen.

6. In answer to my prayers, our Lord has very often rescued souls from mortal sins and led
others on to greater perfection. But as to the delivering of souls out of purgatory, and other
remarkable acts, so many are the mercies of our Lord herein, that were I to speak of them I
should only weary myself and my reader. But He has done more by me for the salvation of souls
than for the health of the body.  This is very well known, and there are many to bear witness
to it.

7. At first it made me scrupulous, because I could not help thinking that our Lord did these
things in answer to my prayer; I say nothing of the chief reason of all--His pure compassion.
But now these graces are so many, and so well known to others, that it gives me no pain to
think so.  I bless His Majesty, and abase myself, because I am still more deeply in His debt;
and I believe that He makes my desire to serve Him grow, and my love revive.

8. But what amazes me most is this: however much I may wish to pray for those graces which
our Lord sees not to be expedient, I cannot do it; and if I try, I do so with little earnestness,
force, and spirit: it is impossible to do more, even if I would. But it is not so as to those
which His Majesty intends to grant. These I can pray for constantly, and with great importunity;
though I do not carry them in my memory, they seem to present themselves to me at once. [3]

9. There is a great difference between these two ways of praying, and I know not how to explain
it.  As to the first, when I pray for those graces which our Lord does not mean to grant,--even
though they concern me very nearly,--I am like one whose tongue is tied; who, though he would
speak, yet cannot; or, if he speaks, sees that people do not listen to him.  And yet I do not
fail to force myself to pray, though not conscious of that fervour which I have when praying
for those graces which our Lord intends to give.  In the second case, I am like one who speaks
clearly and intelligibly to another, whom he sees to be a willing listener.

10. The prayer that is not to be heard is, so to speak, like vocal prayer; the other is a prayer
of contemplation so high that our Lord shows Himself in such a way as to make us feel He hears
us, and that He delights in our prayer, and that He is about to grant our petition.  Blessed
be He for ever who gives me so much and to whom I give so little!  For what is he worth, O
my Lord, who does not utterly abase himself to nothing for Thee?  How much, how much, how much,--I
might say so a thousand times,--I fall short of this!  It is on this account that I do not
wish to live,--though there be other reasons also,--because I do not live according to the
obligations which bind me to Thee. What imperfections I trace in myself! what remissness in
Thy service! Certainly, I could wish occasionally I had no sense, that I might be unconscious
of the great evil that is in me. May He who can do all things help me!

11. When I was staying in the house of that lady of whom I have spoken before, [4] it was necessary
for me to be very watchful over myself, and keep continually in mind the intrinsic vanity of
all the things of this life, because of the great esteem I was held in, and of the praises
bestowed on me.  There was much there to which I might have become attached, if I had looked
only to myself; but I looked to Him who sees things as they really are, not to let me go out
of His hand.  Now that I speak of seeing things as they really are, I remember how great a
trial it is for those to whom God has granted a true insight into the things of earth to have
to discuss them with others.  They wear so many disguises, as our Lord once told me,--and much
of what I am saying of them is not from myself, but rather what my Heavenly Master has taught
me; and therefore, in speaking of them, when I say distinctly I understood this, or our Lord
told me this, I am very scrupulous neither to add nor to take away one single syllable; so,
when I do not clearly remember everything exactly, that must be taken as coming from myself,
and some things, perhaps, are so altogether.  I do not call mine that which is good, for I
know there is no other good in me but only that which our Lord gave me when I was so far from
deserving it: I call that mine which I speak without having had it made known to me by revelation.

12. But, O my God, how is it that we too often judge even spiritual things, as we do those
of the world, by our own understanding, wresting them grievously from their true meaning? We
think we may measure our progress by the years which we have given to the exercise of prayer;
we even think we can prescribe limits to Him who bestows His gifts not by measure [5] when
He wills, and who in six months can give to one more than to another in many years.  This is
a fact which I have so frequently observed in many persons, that I am surprised how any of
us can deny it.

13. I am certainly convinced that he will not remain under this delusion who possesses the
gift of discerning spirits, and to whom our Lord has given real humility; for such a one will
judge of them by the fruits, by the good resolutions and love,--and our Lord gives him light
to understand the matter; and herein He regards the progress and advancement of souls, not
the years they may have spent in prayer; for one person may make greater progress in six months
than another in twenty years, because, as I said before, our Lord gives to whom He will, particularly
to him who is best disposed.

14. I see this in certain persons of tender years who have come to this monastery,--God touches
their hearts, and gives them a little light and love.  I speak of that brief interval in which
He gives them sweetness in prayer, and then they wait for nothing further, and make light of
every difficulty, forgetting the necessity even of food; for they shut themselves up for ever
in a house that is unendowed, as persons who make no account of their life, for His sake, who,
they know, loves them.  They give up everything, even their own will; and it never enters into
their mind that they might be discontented in so small a house, and where enclosure is so strictly
observed.  They offer themselves wholly in sacrifice to God.

15. Oh, how willingly do I admit that they are better than I am! and how I ought to be ashamed
of myself before God!  What His Majesty has not been able to accomplish in me in so many years,--it
is long ago since I began to pray, and He to bestow His graces upon me,--He accomplished in
them in three months, and in some of them even in three days, though he gives them much fewer
graces than He gave to me: and yet His Majesty rewards them well; most assuredly they are not
sorry for what they have done for Him.

16. I wish, therefore, we reminded ourselves of those long years which have gone by since we
made our religious profession.  I say this to those persons, also, who have given themselves
long ago to prayer, but not for the purpose of distressing those who in a short time have made
greater progress than we have made, by making them retrace their steps, so that they may proceed
only as we do ourselves.  We must not desire those who, because of the graces God has given
them, are flying like eagles, to become like chickens whose feet are tied.  Let us rather look
to His Majesty, and give these souls the reins, if we see that they are humble; for our Lord,
who has had such compassion upon them, will not let them fall into the abyss.

17. These souls trust themselves in the hands of God, for the truth, which they learn by faith,
helps them to do it; and shall not we also trust them to Him, without seeking to measure them
by our measure which is that of our meanness of spirit?  We must not do it; for if we cannot
ascend to the heights of their great love and courage,--without experience none can comprehend
them--let us humble ourselves, and not condemn them; for, by this seeming regard to their progress,
we hinder our own, and miss the opportunity our Lord gives us to humble ourselves, to ascertain
our own shortcomings, and learn how much more detached and more near to God these souls must
be than we are, seeing that His Majesty draws so near to them Himself.

18. I have no other intention here, and I wish to have no other, than to express my preference
for the prayer that in a short time results in these great effects, which show themselves at
once; for it is impossible they should enable us to leave all things only to please God, if
they were not accompanied with a vehement love.  I would rather have that prayer than that
which lasted many years, but which at the end of the time, as well as at the beginning, never
issued in a resolution to do anything for God, with the exception of some trifling services,
like a grain of salt, without weight or bulk, and which a bird might carry away in its mouth.
Is it not a serious and mortifying thought that we are making much of certain services which
we render our Lord, but which are too pitiable to be considered, even if they were many in
number?  This is my case, and I am forgetting every moment the mercies of our Lord.  I do not
mean that His Majesty will not make much of them Himself, for He is good; but I wish I made
no account of them myself, or even perceived that I did them, for they are nothing worth.

19. But, O my Lord, do Thou forgive me, and blame me not, if I try to console myself a little
with the little I do, seeing that I do not serve Thee at all; for if I rendered Thee any great
services, I should not think of these trifles.  Blessed are they who serve Thee in great deeds;
if envying these, and desiring to do what they do, were of any help to me, I should not be
so far behind them as I am in pleasing Thee; but I am nothing worth, O my Lord; do Thou make
me of some worth, Thou who lovest me so much.

20. During one of those days, when this monastery, which seems to have cost me some labour,
was fully founded by the arrival of the Brief from Rome, which empowered us to live without
an endowment; [6] and I was comforting myself at seeing the whole affair concluded, and thinking
of all the trouble I had had, and giving thanks to our Lord for having been pleased to make
some use of me,--it happened that I began to consider all that we had gone through.  Well,
so it was; in every one of my actions, which I thought were of some service, I traced so many
faults and imperfections, now and then but little courage, very frequently a want of faith;
for until this moment, when I see everything accomplished, I never absolutely believed; neither,
however, on the other hand, could I doubt what our Lord said to me about the foundation of
this house.  I cannot tell how it was; very often the matter seemed to me, on the one hand,
impossible; and, on the other hand, I could not be in doubt; I mean, I could not believe that
it would not be accomplished.  In short, I find that our Lord Himself, on His part, did all
the good that was done, while I did all the evil.  I therefore ceased to think of the matter,
and wished never to be reminded of it again, lest I should do myself some harm by dwelling
on my many faults. Blessed be He who, when He pleases, draws good out of all my failings!  Amen.

21. I say, then, there is danger in counting the years we have given to prayer; for, granting
that there is nothing in it against humility, it seems to me to imply something like an appearance
of thinking that we have merited, in some degree, by the service rendered.  I do not mean that
there is no merit in it at all, nor that it will not be well rewarded; yet if any spiritual
person thinks, because he has given himself to prayer for many years, that he deserves any
spiritual consolations, I am sure he will never attain to spiritual perfection.  Is it not
enough that a man has merited the protection of God, which keeps him from committing those
sins into which he fell before he began to pray, but he must also, as they say, sue God for
His own money?

22. This does not seem to me to be deep humility, and yet it may be that it is; however, I
look on it as great boldness, for I, who have very little humility, have never ventured upon
it. It may be that I never asked for it, because I had never served Him; perhaps, if I had
served Him, I should have been more importunate than all others with our Lord for my reward.

23. I do not mean that the soul makes no progress in time, or that God will not reward it,
if its prayer has been humble; but I do mean that we should forget the number of years we have
been praying, because all that we can do is utterly worthless in comparison with one drop of
blood out of those which our Lord shed for us.  And if the more we serve Him, the more we become
His debtors, what is it, then, we are asking for? for, if we pay one farthing of the debt,
He gives us back a thousand ducats. For the love of God, let us leave these questions alone,
for they belong to Him.  Comparisons are always bad, even in earthly things; what, then, must
they be in that, the knowledge of which God has reserved to Himself? His Majesty showed this
clearly enough, when those who came late and those who came early to His vineyard received
the same wages. [7]

24. I have sat down so often to write, and have been so many days writing these three leaves,--for,
as I have said, [8] I had, and have still, but few opportunities,--that I forgot what I had
begun with, namely, the following vision. [9]

25. I was in prayer, and saw myself on a wide plain all alone. Round about me stood a great
multitude of all kinds of people, who hemmed me in on every side; all of them seemed to have
weapons of war in their hands, to hurt me; some had spears, others swords; some had daggers,
and others very long rapiers. In short, I could not move away in any direction without exposing
myself to the hazard of death, and I was alone, without any one to take my part.  In this my
distress of mind, not knowing what to do, I lifted up my eyes to heaven, and saw Christ, not
in heaven, but high above me in the air, holding out His hand to me, and there protecting me
in such a way that I was no longer afraid of all that multitude, neither could they, though
they wished it, do me any harm.

26. At first the vision seemed to have no results; but it has been of the greatest help to
me, since I understood what it meant.  Not long afterwards, I saw myself, as it were, exposed
to the like assault, and I saw that the vision represented the world, because everything in
it takes up arms against the poor soul.  We need not speak of those who are not great servants
of our Lord, nor of honours, possessions, and pleasures, with other things of the same nature;
for it is clear that the soul, if it be not watchful, will find itself caught in a net,--at
least, all these things labour to ensnare it; more than this, so also do friends and relatives,
and--what frightens me most--even good people.  I found myself afterwards so beset on all sides,
good people thinking they were doing good, and I knowing not how to defend myself, nor what to do.

27. O my God, if I were to say in what way, and in how many ways, I was tried at that time,
even after that trial of which I have just spoken, what a warning I should be giving to men
to hate the whole world utterly!  It was the greatest of all the persecutions I had to undergo.
I saw myself occasionally so hemmed in on every side, that I could do nothing else but lift
up my eyes to heaven, and cry unto God. [10] I recollected well what I had seen in the vision,
and it helped me greatly not to trust much in any one, for there is no one that can be relied
on except God. In all my great trials, our Lord--He showed it to me--sent always some one on
His part to hold out his hand to help me, as it was shown to me in the vision, so that I might
attach myself to nothing, but only please our Lord; and this has been enough to sustain the
little virtue I have in desiring to serve Thee: be Thou blessed for evermore!

28. On one occasion I was exceedingly disquieted and troubled, unable to recollect myself,
fighting and struggling with my thoughts, running upon matters which did not relate to perfection;
and, moreover, I did not think I was so detached from all things as I used to be.  When I found
myself in this wretched state, I was afraid that the graces I had received from our Lord were
illusions, and the end was that a great darkness covered my soul.  In this my distress our
Lord began to speak to me: He bade me not to harass myself, but learn, from the consideration
of my misery, what it would be if He withdrew Himself from me, and that we were never safe
while living in the flesh.  It was given me to understand how this fighting and struggling
are profitable to us, because of the reward, and it seemed to me as if our Lord were sorry
for us who live in the world.  Moreover, He bade me not to suppose that He had forgotten me;
He would never abandon me, but it was necessary I should do all that I could myself.

29. Our Lord said all this with great tenderness and sweetness; He also spoke other most gracious
words, which I need not repeat. His Majesty, further showing His great love for me, said to
me very often: "Thou art Mine, and I am thine."  I am in the habit of saying myself, and I
believe in all sincerity: "What do I care for myself?--I care only for Thee, O my Lord."

30. These words of our Lord, and the consolation He gives me, fill me with the utmost shame,
when I remember what I am.  I have said it before, I think, [11] and I still say now and then
to my confessor, that it requires greater courage to receive these graces than to endure the
heaviest trials.  When they come, I forget, as it were, all I have done, and there is nothing
before me but a picture of my wretchedness, and my understanding can make no reflections; this,
also, seems to me at times to be supernatural.

31. Sometimes I have such a vehement longing for Communion; I do not think it can be expressed.
One morning it happened to rain so much as to make it seem impossible to leave the house. 
When I had gone out, I was so beside myself with that longing, that if spears had been pointed
at my heart, I should have rushed upon them; the rain was nothing.  When I entered the church
I fell into a deep trance, and saw heaven open--not a door only, as I used to see at other
times.  I beheld the throne which, as I have told you, my father, I saw at other times, with
another throne above it, whereon, though I saw not, I understood by a certain inexplicable
knowledge that the Godhead dwelt.

32. The throne seemed to me to be supported by certain animals; I believe I saw the form of
them: I thought they might be the Evangelists.  But how the throne was arrayed, and Him who
sat on it I did not see, but only an exceedingly great multitude of angels, who seemed to me
more beautiful, beyond all comparison, than those I had seen in heaven.  I thought they were,
perhaps, the seraphim or cherubim, for they were very different in their glory, and seemingly
all on fire.  The difference is great, as I said before; [12] and the joy I then felt cannot
be described, either in writing or by word of mouth; it is inconceivable to any one what has
not had experience of it. I felt that everything man can desire was all there together, and
I saw nothing; they told me, but I know not who, that all I could do there was to understand
that I could understand nothing, and see how everything was nothing in comparison with that.
So it was; my soul afterwards was vexed to see that it could rest on any created thing: how
much more, then, if it had any affection thereto; for everything seemed to me but an ant-hill.
I communicated, and remained during Mass.  I know not how it was: I thought I had been but
a few minutes, and was amazed when the clock struck; I had been two hours in that trance and joy.

33. I was afterwards amazed at this fire, which seems to spring forth out of the true love
of God; for though I might long for it, labour for it, and annihilate myself in the effort
to obtain it, I can do nothing towards procuring a single spark of it myself, because it all
comes of the good pleasure of His Majesty, as I said on another occasion. [13]  It seems to
burn up the old man, with his faults, his lukewarmness, and misery; so that it is like the
phoenix, of which I have read that it comes forth, after being burnt, out of its own ashes
into a new life.  Thus it is with the soul: it is changed into another, whose desires are different,
and whose strength is great.  It seems to be no longer what it was before, and begins to walk
renewed in purity in the ways of our Lord.  When I was praying to Him that thus it might be
with me, and that I might begin His service anew, He said to me: "The comparison thou hast
made is good; take care never to forget it, that thou mayest always labour to advance."

34. Once, when I was doubting, as I said just now, [14] whether these visions came from God
or not, our Lord appeared, and, with some severity, said to me: "O children of men, how long
will you remain hard of heart!"  I was to examine myself carefully on one subject,--whether
I had given myself up wholly to Him, or not. If I had,--and it was so,--I was to believe that
He would not suffer me to perish.  I was very much afflicted when He spoke thus, but He turned
to me with great tenderness and sweetness, and bade me not to distress myself, for He knew
already that, so far as it lay in my power, I would not fail in anything that was for His service;
that He Himself would do what I wished,--and so He did grant what I was then praying for; that
I was to consider my love for Him, which was daily growing in me, for I should see by this
that these visions did not come from Satan; that I must not imagine that God would ever allow
the devil to have so much power over the souls of His servants as to give them such clearness
of understanding and such peace as I had.

35. He gave me also to understand that, when such and so many persons had told me the visions
were from God, I should do wrong if I did not believe them. [15]

36. Once, when I was reciting the psalm Quicumque vult, [16] I was given to understand the
mystery of One God and Three Persons with so much clearness, that I was greatly astonished
and consoled at the same time.  This was of the greatest help to me, for it enabled me to know
more of the greatness and marvels of God; and when I think of the most Holy Trinity, or hear
It spoken of, I seem to understand the mystery, and a great joy it is.

37. One day--it was the Feast of the Assumption of the Queen of the Angels, and our Lady--our
Lord was pleased to grant me this grace.  In a trance He made me behold her going up to heaven,
the joy and solemnity of her reception there, as well as the place where she now is.  To describe
it is more than I can do; the joy that filled my soul at the sight of such great glory was
excessive.  The effects of the vision were great; it made me long to endure still greater trials:
and I had a vehement desire to serve our Lady, because of her great merits.

38. Once, in one of the colleges of the Society of Jesus, when the brothers of the house were
communicating, I saw an exceedingly rich canopy above their heads.  I saw this twice; but I
never saw it when others were receiving Communion.

1. Ch. xxxiii. section 10.  F. Gaspar de Salazar.

2. 3 Kings xix. 12: "Sibilus aurae tenuis."

3. See St. John of the Cross, Ascent of Mount Carmel, bk. iii. ch. i, p. 210).

4. Ch. xxxiv. section 1.

5.

6. See ch. xxxiii. section 15.

7. St. Matt. xx. 9-14: "Volo autem et huic novissimo dare sicut et tibi."

8. Ch. xiv. section 12.

9. The Saint had this vision when she was in the house of Dona Luisa de la Cerda in Toledo,
and it was fulfilled in the opposition she met with in the foundation of St. Joseph of Avila.
See ch. xxxvi. section 18.

10. 2 Paralip. xx.

11. Ch. xx. section 4.

12. Ch. xxix. section 16.

13. Ch. xxix. section 13.

14. Section 28.

15. See ch. xxviii. sections 19, 20.

16. Commonly called the Creed of St. Athanasius.

Chapter XL.

Visions, Revelations, and Locutions.

1. One day, in prayer, the sweetness of which was so great that, knowing how unworthy I was
of so great a blessing, I began to think how much I had deserved to be in that place which
I had seen prepared for me in hell,--for, as I said before, [1] I never forget the way I saw
myself there,--as I was thinking of this, my soul began to be more and more on fire, and I
was carried away in spirit in a way I cannot describe.  It seemed to me as if I had been absorbed
in, and filled with, that grandeur of God which, on another occasion, I had felt. [2]  In that
majesty it was given me to understand one truth, which is the fulness of all truth, but I cannot
tell how, for I saw nothing.  It was said to me, I saw not by whom, but I knew well enough
it was the Truth Itself: "This I am doing to thee is not a slight matter; it is one of those
things for which thou owest Me much; for all the evil in the world comes from ignorance of
the truths of the holy writings in their clear simplicity, of which not one iota shall pass
away." [3]  I thought that I had always believed this, and that all the faithful also believed
it.  Then he said,: "Ah, My daughter, they are few who love Me in truth; for if men loved Me,
I should not hide My secrets from them.  Knowest thou what it is to love Me in truth?  It is
to admit everything to be a lie which is not pleasing unto Me.  Now thou dost not understand
it, but thou shalt understand it clearly hereafter, in the profit it will be to thy soul."

2. Our Lord be praised, so I found it; for after this vision I look upon everything which does
not tend to the service of God as vanity and lies.  I cannot tell how much I am convinced of
this, nor how sorry I am for those whom I see living in darkness, not knowing the truth.  I
derived other great blessings also from this, some of which I will here speak of, others I
cannot describe.

3. Our Lord at the same time uttered a special word of most exceeding graciousness.  I know
not how it was done, for I saw nothing; but I was filled, in a way which also I cannot describe,
with exceeding strength and earnestness of purpose to observe with all my might everything
contained in the divine writings. I thought that I could rise above every possible hindrance
put in my way.

4. Of this divine truth, which was put before me I know not how, there remains imprinted within
me a truth--I cannot give it a name--which fills me with a new reverence for God; it gives
me a notion of His Majesty and power in a way which I cannot explain. I can understand that
it is something very high.  I had a very great desire never to speak of anything but of those
deep truths which far surpass all that is spoken of here in the world,--and so the living in
it began to be painful to me.

5. The vision left me in great tenderness, joy, and humility. It seemed to me, though I knew
not how, that our Lord now gave me great things; and I had no suspicion whatever of any illusion.
I saw nothing; but I understood how great a blessing it is to make no account of anything which
does not lead us nearer unto God.  I also understood what it is for a soul to be walking in
the truth, in the presence of the Truth itself.  What I understood is this: that our Lord gave
me to understand that He is Himself the very Truth.

6. All this I am speaking of I learnt at times by means of words uttered; at other times I
learnt some things without the help of words, and that more clearly than those other things
which were told me in words.  I understood exceedingly deep truths concerning the Truth, more
than I could have done through the teaching of many learned men.  It seems to me that learned
men never could have thus impressed upon me, nor so clearly explained to me, the vanity of
this world.

7. The Truth of which I am speaking, and which I was given to see, is Truth Itself, in Itself.
It has neither beginning nor end.  All other truths depend on this Truth, as all other loves
depend on this love, and all other grandeurs on this grandeur. I understood it all, notwithstanding
that my words are obscure in comparison with that distinctness with which it pleased our Lord
to show it to me.  What think you must be the power of His Majesty, seeing that in so short
a time it leaves so great a blessing and such an impression on the soul?  O Grandeur! Majesty
of mine! what is it Thou art doing, O my Lord Almighty! Consider who it is to whom Thou givest
blessings so great!  Dost Thou not remember that this my soul has been an abyss of lies and
a sea of vanities, and all my fault?  Though Thou hadst given me a natural hatred of lying
yet I did involve myself in many lying ways.  How is this, O my God? how can it be that mercies
and graces so great should fall to the lot of one who has so ill deserved them at Thy hands?

8. Once, when I was with the whole community reciting the Office, my soul became suddenly recollected,
and seemed to me all bright as a mirror, clear behind, sideways, upwards, and downwards; and
in the centre of it I saw Christ our Lord, as I usually see Him. It seemed to me that I saw
Him distinctly in every part of my soul, as in a mirror, and at the same time the mirror was
all sculptured--I cannot explain it--in our Lord Himself by a most loving communication which
I can never describe.  I know that this vision was a great blessing to me, and is still whenever
I remember it, particularly after Communion.

9. I understood by it, that, when a soul is in mortal sin, this mirror becomes clouded with
a thick vapour, and utterly obscured, so that our Lord is neither visible nor present, though
He is always present in the conservation of its being.  In heretics, the mirror is, as it were,
broken in pieces, and that is worse than being dimmed.  There is a very great difference between
seeing this and describing it, for it can hardly be explained. But it has done me great good;
it has also made me very sorry on account of those times when I dimmed the lustre of my soul
by my sins, so that I could not see our Lord.

10. This vision seems to me very profitable to recollected persons, to teach them to look upon
our Lord as being in the innermost part of their soul.  It is a method of looking upon Him
which penetrates us more thoroughly, and is much more fruitful, than that of looking upon Him
as external to us, as I have said elsewhere, [4] and as it is laid down in books on prayer,
where they speak of where we are to seek God.  The glorious St. Augustin, [5] in particular,
says so, when he says that neither in the streets of the city, nor in pleasures, nor in any
place whatever where he sought Him, did he find Him as he found Him within himself.  This is
clearly the best way; we need not go up to heaven, nor any further than our own selves, for
that would only distress the spirit and distract the soul, and bring but little fruit.

11. I should like to point out one result of a deep trance; it may be that some are aware of
it.  When the time is over during which the soul was in union, wherein all its powers were
wholly absorbed,--it lasts, as I have said, [6] but a moment,--the soul continues still to
be recollected, unable to recover itself even in outward things; for the two powers--the memory
and the understanding--are, as it were, in a frenzy, extremely disordered.  This, I say, happens
occasionally, particularly in the beginnings.  I am thinking whether it does not result from
this: that our natural weakness cannot endure the vehemence of the spirit, which is so great,
and that the imagination is enfeebled.  I know it to be so with some.  I think it best for
these to force themselves to give up prayer at that time, and resume it afterwards, when they
may recover what they have lost, and not do everything at once, for in that case much harm
might come of it.  I know this by experience, as well as the necessity of considering what
our health can bear.

12. Experience is necessary throughout, so also is a spiritual director; for when the soul
has reached this point, there are many matters which must be referred to the director.  If,
after seeking such a one, the soul cannot find him, our Lord will not fail that soul, seeing
that He has not failed me, who am what I am: They are not many, I believe, who know by experience
so many things, and without experience it is useless to treat a soul at all, for nothing will
come of it, save only trouble and distress. But our Lord will take this also into account,
and for that reason it is always best to refer the matter to the director. I have already more
than once said this, [7] and even all I am saying now, only I do not distinctly remember it;
but I do see that it is of great importance, particularly to women, that they should go to
their confessor, and that he should be a man of experience herein.  There are many more women
than men to whom our Lord gives these graces; I have heard the holy friar Peter of Alcantara
say so, and, indeed, I know it myself.  He used to say that women made greater progress in
this way than men did; and he gave excellent reasons for his opinion, all in favour of women;
but there is no necessity for repeating them here.

13. Once, when in prayer, I had a vision, for a moment,--I saw nothing distinctly, but the
vision was most clear,--how all things are seen in God and how all things are comprehended
in Him.  I cannot in any way explain it, but the vision remains most deeply impressed on my
soul, and is one of those grand graces which our Lord wrought in me, and one of those which
put me to the greatest shame and confusion whenever I call my sins to remembrance.  I believe,
if it had pleased our Lord that I had seen this at an earlier time, or if they saw it who sin
against Him, we should have neither the heart nor the daring to do so. I had the vision, I
repeat it, but I cannot say that I saw anything; however, I must have seen something, seeing
that I explain it by an illustration, only it must have been in a way so subtile and delicate
that the understanding is unable to reach it, or I am so ignorant in all that relates to these
visions, which seem to be not imaginary.  In some of these visions there must be something
imaginary, only, as the powers of the soul are then in a trance, they are not able afterwards
to retain the forms, as our Lord showed them to it then, and as He would have it rejoice in them.

14. Let us suppose the Godhead to be a most brilliant diamond, much larger than the whole world,
or a mirror like that to which I compared the soul in a former vision, [8] only in a way so
high that I cannot possibly describe it; and that all our actions are seen in that diamond,
which is of such dimensions as to include everything, because nothing can be beyond it.  It
was a fearful thing for me to see, in so short a time, so many things together in that brilliant
diamond, and a most piteous thing too, whenever I think of it, to see such foul things as my
sins present in the pure brilliancy of that light.

15. So it is, whenever I remember it, I do not know how to bear it, and I was then so ashamed
of myself that I knew not where to hide myself.  Oh, that some one could make this plain to
those who commit most foul and filthy sins, that they may remember their sins are not secret,
and that God most justly resents them, seeing that they are wrought in the very presence of
His Majesty, and that we are demeaning ourselves so irreverently before Him! I saw, too, how
completely hell is deserved for only one mortal sin, and how impossible it is to understand
the exceeding great wickedness of committing it in the sight of majesty so great, and how abhorrent
to His nature such actions are.  In this we see more and more of His mercifulness, who, though
we all know His hatred of sin, yet suffers us to live.

16. The vision made me also reflect, that if one such vision as this fills the souls with such
awe, what will it be in the day of judgment, when His Majesty will appear distinctly, and when
we too shall look on the sins we have committed!  O my God, I have been, oh, how blind!  I
have often been amazed at what I have written; and you, my father, be you not amazed at anything,
but that I am still living,--I, who see such things, and know myself to be what I am.  Blessed
for ever be He who has borne with me so long!

17. Once, in prayer, with much recollection, sweetness, and repose, I saw myself, as it seemed
to me, surrounded by angels, and was close unto God.  I began to intercede with His Majesty
on behalf of the church.  I was given to understand the great services which a particular Order
would render in the latter days, and the courage with which its members would maintain the faith.

18. I was praying before the most Holy Sacrament one day; I had a vision of a Saint, whose
Order was in some degree fallen. In his hands he held a large book, which he opened, and then
told me to read certain words, written in large and very legible letters; they were to this
effect: "In times to come this Order will flourish; it will have many martyrs." [9]

19. On another occasion, when I was at Matins in choir, six or seven persons, who seemed to
me to be of this Order, appeared and stood before me with swords in their hands.  The meaning
of that, as I think, is that they are to be defenders of the faith; for at another time, when
I was in prayer, I fell into a trance, and stood in spirit on a wide plain, where many persons
were fighting; and the members of this Order were fighting with great zeal.  Their faces were
beautiful, and as it were on fire. Many they laid low on the ground defeated, others they killed.
It seemed to me to be a battle with heretics.

20. I have seen this glorious Saint occasionally, and he has told me certain things, and thanked
me for praying for his Order, and he has promised to pray for me to our Lord.  I do not say
which Orders these are,--our Lord, if it so pleased Him, could make them known,--lest the others
should be aggrieved.  Let every Order, or every member of them by himself, labour, that by
his means our Lord would so bless his own Order that it may serve Him in the present grave
necessities of His Church.  Blessed are they whose lives are so spent.

21. I was once asked by a person to pray God to let him know whether his acceptance of a bishopric
would be for the service of God.  After Communion our Lord said to me: "When he shall have
clearly and really understood that true dominion consists in possessing nothing, he may then
accept it."  I understood by this that he who is to be in dignity must be very far from wishing
or desiring it, or at least he must not seek it.

22. These and many other graces our Lord has given, and is giving continually, to me a sinner.
I do not think it is necessary to speak of them, because the state of my soul can be ascertained
from what I have written; so also can the spirit which our Lord has given me.  May He be blessed
for ever, who has been so mindful of me!

23. Our Lord said to me once, consoling me, that I was not to distress myself,--this He said
most lovingly,--because in this life we could not continue in the same state. [10]  At one
time I should be fervent, at another not; now disquieted, and again at peace, and tempted;
but I must hope in Him, and fear not.

24. I was one day thinking whether it was a want of detachment in me to take pleasure in the
company of those who had the care of my soul, and to have an affection for them, and to comfort
myself with those whom I see to be very great servants of God. [11] Our Lord said to me: "It
is not a virtue in a sick man to abstain from thanking and loving the physician who seems to
restore him to health when he is in danger of death.  What should I have done without these
persons?  The conversation of good people was never hurtful; my words should always be weighed,
and holy; and I was not to cease my relations with them, for they would do me good rather than
harm."

25. This was a great comfort to me, because, now and then, I wished to abstain from converse
with all people; for it seemed to me that I was attached to them.  Always, in all things, did
our Lord console me, even to the showing me how I was to treat those who were weak, and some
other people also.  Never did He cease to take care of me.  I am sometimes distressed to see
how little I do in His service, and how I am forced to spend time in taking care of a body
so weak and worthless as mine is, more than I wish.

26. I was in prayer one night, when it was time to go to sleep. I was in very great pain, and
my usual sickness was coming on. [12]  I saw myself so great a slave to myself, and, on the
other hand, the spirit asked for time for itself.  I was so much distressed that I began to
weep exceedingly, and to be very sorry.  This has happened to me not once only, but, as I am
saying, very often; and it seems to make me weary of myself, so that at the time I hold myself
literally in abhorrence. Habitually, however, I know that I do not hate myself, and I never
fail to take that which I see to be necessary for me. May our Lord grant that I do not take
more than is necessary!--I am afraid I do.

27. When I was thus distressed, our Lord appeared unto me. He comforted me greatly, and told
me I must do this for His love, and bear it; my life was necessary now.  And so, I believe,
I have never known real pain since I resolved to serve my Lord and my Consoler with all my
strength; for though he would leave me to suffer a little, yet He would console me in such
a way that I am doing nothing when I long for troubles.  And it seems to me there is nothing
worth living for but this, and suffering is what I most heartily pray to God for.  I say to
Him sometimes, with my whole heart: "O Lord, either to die or to suffer!  I ask of Thee nothing
else for myself."  It is a comfort to me to hear the clock strike, because I seem to have come
a little nearer to the vision of God, in that another hour of my life has passed away.

28. At other times I am in such a state that I do not feel that I am living, nor yet do I desire
to die but I am lukewarm, and darkness surrounds me on every side, as I said before; [13] for
I am very often in great trouble.  It pleased our Lord that the graces He wrought in me should
be published abroad, [14] as He told me some years ago they should be.  It was a great pain
to me, and I have borne much on that account even to this day, as you, my father, know, because
every man explains them in his own sense.  But my comfort herein is that it is not my fault
that they are become known, for I was extremely cautious never to speak of them but to my confessors,
or to persons who I knew had heard of them from them.  I was silent, however, not out of humility,
but because, as I said before, [15] it gave me great pain to speak of them even to my confessors.

29. Now, however,--to God be the glory!--though many speak against me, but out of a zeal for
goodness, and though some are afraid to speak to me, and even to hear my confession, and though
others have much to say about me, because I see that our Lord willed by this means to provide
help for many souls,--and also because I see clearly and keep in mind how much He would suffer,
if only for the gaining of one,--I do not care about it at all.

30. I know not why it is so, but perhaps the reason may in some measure be that His Majesty
has placed me in this corner out of the way, where the enclosure is so strict, and where I
am as one that is dead.  I thought that no one would remember me, but I am not so much forgotten
as I wish I was, for I am forced to speak to some people.  But as I am in a house where none
may see me, it seems as if our Lord had been pleased to bring me to a haven, which I trust
in His Majesty will be secure.  Now that I am out of the world, with companions holy and few
in number, I look down on the world as from a great height, and care very little what people
say or know about me.  I think much more of one soul's advancement, even if it were but slight,
than of all that people may say of me; and since I am settled here it has pleased our Lord
that all my desires tend to this.

31. He has made my life to me now a kind of sleep; for almost always what I see seems to me
to be seen as in a dream, nor have I any great sense either of pleasure or of pain.  If matters
occur which may occasion either, the sense of it passes away so quickly that it astonishes
me, and leaves an impression as if I had been dreaming,--and this is the simple truth; for
if I wished afterwards to delight in that pleasure, or be sorry over that pain, it is not in
my power to do so: just as a sensible person feels neither pain nor pleasure in the memory
of a dream that is past; for now our Lord has roused my soul out of that state which, because
I was not mortified nor dead to the things of this world, made me feel as I did, and His Majesty
does not wish me to become blind again.

32. This is the way I live now, my lord and father; do you, my father, pray to God that He
would take me to Himself, or enable me to serve Him.  May it please His Majesty that what I
have written may be of some use to you, my father!  I have so little time, [16] and therefore
my trouble has been great in writing; but it will be a blessed trouble if I have succeeded
in saying anything that will cause one single act of praise to our Lord. If that were the case,
I should look upon myself as sufficiently rewarded, even if you, my father, burnt at once what
I have written.  I would rather it were not burnt before those three saw it, whom you, my father,
know of, because they are, and have been, my confessors; for if it be bad, it is right they
should lose the good opinion they have of me; and if it be good, they are good and learned
men, and I know they will recognise its source, and give praise to Him who hath spoken through me.

33. May His Majesty ever be your protector, and make you so great a saint that your spirit
and light may show the way to me a miserable creature, so wanting in humility and so bold as
to have ventured to write on subjects so high!  May our Lord grant I have not fallen into any
errors in the matter, for I had the intention and the desire to be accurate and obedient, and
also that through me He might, in some measure, have glory,--because that is what I have been
praying for these many years; and as my good works are inefficient for that end, I have ventured
to put in order this my disordered life.  Still, I have not wasted more time, nor given it
more attention, than was necessary for writing it; yet I have put down all that has happened
to me with all the simplicity and sincerity possible.

34. May our Lord, who is all-powerful, grant--and He can if He will--that I may attain to the
doing of His will in all things! May He never suffer this soul to be lost, which He so often,
in so many ways, and by so many means, has rescued from hell and drawn unto Himself!  Amen.

I.H.S.

The Holy Spirit be ever with you, my father. [17]  Amen. It would not be anything improper
if I were to magnify my labour in writing this, to oblige you to be very careful to recommend
me to our Lord; for indeed I may well do so, considering what I have gone through in giving
this account of myself, and in retracing my manifold wretchedness.  But, still, I can say with
truth that I felt it more difficult to speak of the graces which I have received from our Lord
than to speak of my offences against His Majesty.  You, my father, commanded me to write at
length; that is what I have done, on condition that you will do what you promised, namely,
destroy everything in it that has the appearance of being wrong.  I had not yet read it through
after I had written it, when your reverence sent for it.  Some things in it may not be very
clearly explained, and there may be some repetitions; for the time I could give to it was so
short, that I could not stop to see what I was writing.  I entreat your reverence to correct
it and have it copied, if it is to be sent on to the Father-Master, Avila, [18] for perhaps
some one may recognise the handwriting.  I wish very much you would order it so that he might
see it, for I began to write it with a view to that I shall be greatly comforted if he shall
think that I am on a safe road, now that, so far as it concerns me, there is nothing more to
be done.

Your reverence will do in all things that which to you shall seem good, and you will look upon
yourself as under an obligation to take care of one who trusts her soul to your keeping.  I
will pray for the soul of your reverence to our Lord, so long as I live.  You will, therefore,
be diligent in His service, in order that you may be able to help me; for your reverence will
see by what I have written how profitable it is to give oneself, as your reverence has begun
to do, wholly unto Him who gives Himself to us so utterly without measure.

Blessed be His Majesty for ever!  I hope of His mercy we shall see one another one day, when
we, your reverence and myself, shall see more clearly the great mercies He has shown us, and
when we shall praise Him for ever and ever.  Amen.  This book was finished in June, 1562. [19]--Fray
Do Banes."

1. Ch. xxxii. section 1.

2. Ch. xxviii. section 14.

3. St. Matt. v. 18: "Iota unum aut unus apex non praeteribit a lege."

4. Ch. iv. section 10.

5. "Ecce quantum spatiatus sum in memoria mea quaerens Te, Domine; et non Te inveni extra eam.
. . .  Ex quo didici Te, manes in memoria mea, et illic Te invenio cum reminiscor Tui et delector
in Te" (Confess. x. 24).  See Inner Fortress, Sixth Mansion, ch. iv.

6. Ch. xx. section 26.

7. Ch. xxv. section 18, ch. xxvi. section 4.

8. Section 8.

9. Yepez says that the Order here spoken of is the Carmelite, and Ribera understands the Saint
to refer to that of St. Dominic. The Bollandists, n. 1638-1646, on the whole, prefer the authority
of Ribera to that of Yepez and give good reasons for their preference, setting aside as insufficient
the testimony of Fray Luis of the Assumption, who says he heard himself from the Venerable
Anne of St. Bartholomew that the Order in question is the Order of our Lady of Mount Carmel.
Don Vicente, the Spanish editor, rejects the opinion of Ribera, on the ground that it could
not have been truly said of the Dominicans in the sixteenth century that the Order was in "some
degree fallen," for it was in a most flourishing state.  He therefore was inclined to believe
that the Saint referred to the Augustinians or to the Franciscans.  But, after he had printed
this part of his book, he discovered among the MSS. in the public library of Madrid a letter
of Anne of St. Bartholomew, addressed to Fray Luis of the Assumption, in which the saintly
companion of St. Teresa says that the "Order was ours."  Don Vicente has published the letter
in the Appendix, p. 566.

10. Job xiv. 2: "Nunquam in eodem statu permanet."

11. See ch. xxxvii. sections 4, 6.

12. See ch. vii. section 18.

13. Ch. xxx. section 10.

14. Ch. xxxi. sections 16, 17.

15. Ch. xxviii. section 6.

16. See ch. xiv. section 12.

17. This letter, which seems to have accompanied the "Life," is printed among the other letters
of the Saint, and is addressed to her confessor, the Dominican friar, Pedro Ibanez.  It is
the fifteenth letter in the first volume of the edition of Madrid; but it is not dated there.

18. Juan de Avila, commonly called the Apostle of Andalusia.

19. I.e. of the MS.  See p. 337  of this translation.

The Relations or Manifestations of Her Spiritual State Which St. Teresa Submitted to Her Confessors.

The Relations.

Relation 1.

Sent to St. Peter of Alcantara in 1560 from the Monastery of the Incarnation, Avila. [1]

1. The method of prayer I observe at present is this: when I am in prayer, it is very rarely
that I can use the understanding, because the soul becomes at once recollected, remains in
repose, or falls into a trance, so that I cannot in any way have the use of the faculties and
the senses,--so much so, that the hearing alone is left; but then it does not help me to understand
anything.

2. It often happens, when I am not even thinking of the things of God, but engaged in other
matters, and when prayer seems to be beyond my power, whatever efforts I might make, because
of the great aridity I am in, bodily pains contributing thereto, that this recollection or
elevation of spirit comes upon me so suddenly that I cannot withstand it, and the fruits and
blessings it brings with it are in a moment mine: and this, without my having had a vision,
or heard anything, or knowing where I am, except that when the soul seems to be lost I see
it make great progress, which I could not have made if I had laboured for a whole year, so
great is my gain.

3. At other times certain excessive impetuosities occur, accompanied with a certain fainting
away of the soul for God, so that I have no control over myself; [2] my life seems to have
come to an end, and so it makes me cry out and call upon God; and this comes upon me with great
vehemence.  Sometimes I cannot remain sitting, so great is the oppression of the heart; and
this pain comes on without my doing anything to cause it, and the nature of it is such that
my soul would be glad never to be without it while I live.  And the longings I have are longings
not to live; and they come on because it seems as if I must live on without being able to find
any relief, for relief comes from the vision of God, which comes by death, and death is what
I cannot take; and with all this my soul thinks that all except itself are filled with consolations,
and that all find help in their troubles, but not itself.  The distress thus occasioned is
so intense that, if our Lord did not relieve it by throwing it into a trance, whereby all is
made calm, and the soul rests in great quiet and is satisfied, now by seeing something of that
which it desires, now by hearing other things, it would seem to be impossible for it to be
delivered from this pain.

4. At other times there come upon me certain desires to serve God, with a vehemence so great
that I cannot describe it, and accompanied with a certain pain at seeing how unprofitable I
am. It seems to me then that there is nothing in the world, neither death, nor martyrdom, that
I could not easily endure. This conviction, too, is not the result of any reflection, but comes
in a moment.  I am wholly changed, and I know not whence cometh such great courage.  I think
I should live to raise my voice, and publish to all the world how important it is for men not
to be satisfied with the common way, and how great the good is that God will give us if we
prepare ourselves to receive it. I say it again, these desires are such that I am melted away
in myself, for I seem to desire what I cannot have.  The body seems to me to hold me in prison,
through its inability to serve God and my state [3] in anything; for if it were not for the
body, I might do very great things, so far as my strength would allow; and thus, because I
see myself without any power whatever to serve God, I feel this pain in a way wholly indescribable;
the issue is delight, recollection, and the consolation of God.

5. Again, it has happened, when these longings to serve Him come upon me, that I wish to do
penance, but I am not able.  It would be a great relief to me, and it does relieve and cheer
me, though what I do is almost nothing, because of my bodily weakness; and yet, if I were to
give way to these my longings, I believe I should observe no moderation.

6. Sometimes, if I have to speak to any one, I am greatly distressed, and I suffer so much
that it makes me weep abundantly; for my whole desire is to be alone, and solitude comforts
me, though at times I neither pray nor read, and conversation--particularly of kindred and
connections--seems oppressive, and myself to be as a slave, except when I speak to those whose
conversation is of prayer and matters of the soul,--in these I find comfort and joy; [4] yet
these occasionally are too much for me, and I would rather not see them, but go where I might
be alone: though this is not often the case, for those especially who direct my conscience
always console me.

7. At other times it gives me much pain that I must eat and sleep, and that I see I cannot
forego these things, being less able to do so than any one.  I submit that I may serve God,
and thus I offer up those actions to him.  Time seems to me too short, and that I have not
enough for my prayer, for I should never be tired of being alone.  I am always wishing I had
time for reading, for I have been always fond of reading.  I read very little, for when I take
up a book I become recollected through the pleasure it gives me, and thus my reading is turned
into prayer: and it is but rarely, for I have many occupations; and though they are good, they
do not give me the pleasure which reading would give.  And thus I am always wishing for more
time, and everything becomes disagreeable, so I believe, because I see I cannot do what I wish
and desire.

8. All these desires, with an increase in virtue, have been given me by our Lord since He raised
me to this prayer of quiet, and sent these raptures.  I find myself so improved that I look
on myself as being a mass of perdition before this.  These raptures and visions leave me in
possession of the blessings I shall now speak of; and I maintain that, if there be any good
in me, they are the occasions of it.

9. I have made a very strong resolution never to offend God, not even venially.  I would rather
die a thousand deaths than do anything of the kind knowingly.  I am resolved never to leave
undone anything I may consider to be the more perfect, or more for the honour of our Lord,
if he who has the care of my soul and directs me tells me I may do it.  Cost me what pain it
might, I would not leave such an act undone for all the treasure of the world.  If I were to
do so, I do not think I could have the face to ask anything of God our Lord, or to make my
prayer; and yet, for all this, I have many faults and imperfections.  I am obedient to my confessor,
[5] though imperfectly; but if I know that he wishes or commands anything, I would not leave
that undone, so far as I understand it; if I did so, I should think myself under a grievous
delusion.

10. I have a longing for poverty, though not free from imperfection; however, I believe, if
I had wealth, I would not reserve any revenue, nor hoard money for myself, nor do I care for
it; I wish to have only what is necessary.  Nevertheless, I feel that I am very defective in
this virtue; for, though I desire nothing for myself, I should like to have something to give
away: still, I desire no revenue, nor anything for myself. [6]

11. In almost all the visions I have had, I have found good, if it be not a delusion of Satan;
herein I submit myself to the judgment of my confessors.

12. As to fine and beautiful things, such as water, fields, perfume, music, etc., I think I
would rather not have them, so great is the difference between them and what I am in the habit
of seeing, and so all pleasure in them is gone from me. [7] Hence it is that I care not for
them, unless it be at the first sight: they never make any further impression; to me they seem
but dirt.

13. If I speak or converse with people in the world--for I cannot help it--even about prayer,
and if the conversation be long, though to pass away the time, I am under great constraint
if it be not necessary, for it gives me much pain.

14. Amusements, of which I used to be fond, and worldly things, are all disagreeable to me
now, and I cannot look at them.

15. The longings, which I said I have, [8] of loving and serving and seeing God, are not helped
by any reflections, as formerly, when I thought I was very devout, and shed many tears; but
they flow out of a certain fire and heat so excessive that, I repeat it, if God did not relieve
them by throwing me into a trance, wherein the soul seems to find itself satisfied, I believe
my life would come to an end at once.

16. When I see persons making great progress, and thus resolved, detached, and courageous,
I love them much; and I should like to have my conversation with such persons, and I think
they help me on.  People who are afraid, and seemingly cautious in those things, the doing
of which is perfectly reasonable here, seem to vex me, and drive me to pray to God and the
saints to make them undertake such things as these which now frighten us.  Not that I am good
for anything myself, but because I believe that God helps those who, for His sake, apply themselves
to great things, and that He never abandons any one who puts his trust in Him only. And I should
like to find any one who would help me to believe so, and to be without thought about food
and raiment, but leave it all in the hands of God. [9]

17. This leaving in the hands of God the supply of all I need is not to be understood as excluding
all labour on my part, but merely solicitude--I mean, the solicitude of care.  And since I
have attained to this liberty, it goes well with me, and I labour to forget myself as much
as I can.  I do not think it is a year ago since our Lord gave me this liberty.

18. Vainglory [10]--glory, be to God!--so far as I know, there is no reason why I should have
any; for I see plainly that in these things which God sends me I have no part myself; on the
contrary, God makes me conscious of my own wretchedness; for whatever reflections I might be
able to make, I could never come to the knowledge of such deep truths as I attain to in a single
rapture.

19. When I speak of these things a few days after, they seem to me as if they had happened
to another person.  Previously, I thought it a wrong to me that they should be known to others;
but I see now that I am not therefore any the better, but rather worse, seeing that I make
so little progress after receiving mercies so great.  And certainly, in every way, it seems
to me that there was not in the world anybody worse than myself; and so the virtues of others
seem to me much more meritorious than mine, and that I do nothing myself but receive graces,
and that God must give to others at once all that He is now giving unto me; and I pray Him
not to reward me in this life; and so I believe that God has led me along this way because
I am weak and wicked.

20. When I am in prayer, and even almost always when I am able to reflect at all, I cannot,
even if I tried, pray to God for rest, or desire it; for I see that His life was one of suffering,
and that I ask Him to send me, giving me first the grace to bear it.

21. Everything of this kind, and of the highest perfection, seems to make so deep an impression
on me in prayer, that I am amazed at the sight of truths so great and so clear that the things
of the world seem to be folly; and so it is necessary for me to take pains to reflect on the
way I demeaned myself formerly in the things of the world, for it seems to me folly to feel
for deaths and the troubles of the world,--at least, that sorrow for, or love of, kindred and
friends should last long.  I say I have to take pains when I am considering what I was, and
what I used to feel.

22. If I see people do anything which clearly seems to be sin, I cannot make up my mind that
they have offended God; and if I dwell upon this at all,--which happens rarely or never,--I
never can make up my mind, though I see it plainly enough.  It seems to me that everybody is
as anxious to serve God as I am.  And herein God has been very gracious unto me, for I never
dwell on an evil deed, to remember it afterwards and if I do remember it, I see some virtue
or other in that person.  In this way these things never weary me, except generally: but heresies
do; they distress me very often, and almost always when I think of them they seem to me to
be the only trouble which should be felt.  And also I feel, when I see people who used to give
themselves to prayer fall away; this gives me pain, but not much, because I strive not to dwell
upon it.

23. I find, also, that I am improved in the matter of that excessive neatness which I was wont
to observe, [11] though not wholly delivered from it.  I do not discern that I am always mortified
in this; sometimes, however, I do.

24. All this I have described, together with a very constant dwelling in thought on God, is
the ordinary state of my soul, so far as I can understand it.  And if I must be busy about
something else, without my seeking it, as I said before, [12] I know not who makes me awake,--and
this not always, only when I am busy with things of importance; and such--glory be to God!--only
at intervals demand my attention, and do not occupy me at all times.

25. For some days--they are not many, however--for three, or four, or five, all my good and
fervent thoughts, and my visions, seem to be withdrawn, yea, even forgotten, so that, if I
were to seek for it, I know of no good that can ever have been in me.  It seems to have been
all a dream, or, at least, I can call nothing to mind.  Bodily pains at the same time distress
me. My understanding is troubled, so that I cannot think at all about God, neither do I know
under what law I live.  If I read anything, I do not understand it; I seem to be full of faults,
and without any resolution whatever to practise virtue; and the great resolution I used to
have is come to this, that I seem to be unable to resist the least temptation or slander of
the world. It suggests itself to me then that I am good for nothing, if any one would have
me undertake more than the common duties.  I give way to sadness, thinking I have deceived
all those who trusted me at all.  I should like to hide myself where nobody could see me; but
my desire for solitude arises from want of courage, not from love of virtue.  It seems to me
that I should like to dispute with all who contradict me; I am under the influence of these
impressions, only God has been so gracious unto me, that I do not offend more frequently than
I was wont to do, nor do I ask Him to deliver me from them, but only, if it be His will I should
always suffer thus, to keep me from offending Him; and I submit myself to His will with my
whole heart, and I see that it is a very great grace bestowed upon me that He does not keep
me constantly in this state.

26. One thing astonishes me; it is that, while I am in this state, through a single word of
those I am in the habit of hearing, or a single vision, or a little self-recollection, lasting
but an Ave Maria, or through my drawing near to communicate, I find my soul and body so calm,
so sound, the understanding so clear, and myself possessing all the strength and all the good
desires I usually have.  And this I have had experience of very often--at least when I go to
Communion; it is more than six months ago that I felt a clear improvement in my bodily health,
[13] and that occasionally brought about through raptures, and I find it last sometimes more
than three hours, at other times I am much stronger for a whole day; and I do not think it
is fancy, for I have considered the matter, and reflected on it.  Accordingly, when I am thus
recollected, I fear no illness.  The truth is, that when I pray, as I was accustomed to do
before, I feel no improvement.

27. All these things of which I am speaking make me believe that it comes from God; for when
I see what I once was, that I was in the way of being lost, and that soon, my soul certainly
is astonished at these things, without knowing whence these virtues came to me; I did not know
myself, and saw that all was a gift, and not the fruit of my labours.  I understand in all
truthfulness and sincerity, and see that I am not deluded, that it has been not only the means
of drawing me to God in His service, but of saving me also from hell.  This my confessors know,
who have heard my general confession.

28. Also, when I see any one who knows anything about me, I wish to let him know my whole life,
[14] because my honour seems to me to consist in the honour of our Lord, and I care for nothing
else.  This He knows well, or I am very blind; for neither honour, nor life, nor praise, nor
good either of body or of soul, can interest me, nor do I seek or desire any advantage, only
His glory.  I cannot believe that Satan has sought so many means of making my soul advance,
in order to lose it after all.  I do not hold him to be so foolish.  Nor can I believe it of
God, though I have deserved to fall into delusions because of my sins, that He has left unheeded
so many prayers of so many good people for two years, and I do nothing else but ask everybody
to pray to our Lord that He would show me if this be for His glory, or lead me by another way.
[15]  I do not believe that these things would have been permitted by His Majesty to be always
going on if they were not His work.  These considerations, and the reasons of so many saintly
men, give me courage when I am under the pressure of fear that they are not from God, I being
so wicked myself. But when I am in prayer, and during those days when I am in repose, and my
thoughts fixed on God, if all the learned and holy men in the world came together and put me
to, all conceivable tortures, and I, too, desirous of agreeing with them, they could not make
me believe that this is the work of Satan, for I cannot. And when they would have had me believe
it, I was afraid, seeing who it was that said so; and I thought that they must be saying what
was true, and that I, being what I was, must have been deluded.  But all they had said to me
was destroyed by the first word, or recollection, or vision that came, and I was able to resist
no longer, and believed it was from God. [16]

29. However, I can think that Satan now and then may intermeddle here, and so it is, as I have
seen and said; but he produces different results, nor can he, as it seems to me, deceive any
one possessed of any experience.  Nevertheless, I say that, though I do certainly believe this
to be from God, I would never do anything, for any consideration whatever, that is not judged
by him who has the charge of my soul to be for the better service of our Lord, and I never
had any intention but to obey without concealing anything, for that is my duty.  I am very
often rebuked for my faults, and that in such a way as to pierce me to the very quick; and
I am warned when there is, or when there may be, any danger in what I am doing.  These rebukes
and warnings have done me much good, in often reminding me of my former sins, which make me
exceedingly sorry.

30. I have been very long, but this is the truth,--that, when I rise from my prayer, I see
that I have received blessings which seem too briefly described.  Afterwards I fall into many
imperfections, and am unprofitable and very wicked.  And perhaps I have no perception of what
is good, but am deluded; still, the difference in my life is notorious, and compels me to think
over all I have said--I mean, that which I verily believe I have felt. These are the perfections
which I feel our Lord has wrought in me, who am so wicked and so imperfect.  I refer it all
to your judgment, my father, for you know the whole state of my soul.

1. Fra Anton. a Sancto Joseph, in his notes on this Relation, usually published among the letters
of the Saint, ed. Doblado, vol. ii. letter 11, says it was written for St. Peter of Alcantara
when he came to Avila in 1560, at the time when the Saint was so severely tried by her confessors
and the others who examined her spirit, and were convinced that her prayer was a delusion of
Satan: see the Life, ch. xxv. section 18. The following notes were discovered among the papers
of the Saint in the monastery of the Incarnation, and are supposed to refer to this Relation.
The Chronicler of the Order, Fra Francis a Sancta Maria, is inclined to the belief that they
were written by St. Peter of Alcantara, to whom the Relation is addressed, and the more so
because Ribera does not claim them for any member of the Society, notwithstanding the reference
to them in sections 22, 28.

"1. The end God has in view is the drawing a soul to himself; that of the devil is the withdrawing
it from God.  Our Lord never does anything whereby anyone may be separated from Him, and the
devil does nothing whereby any one may be made to draw near unto God.  All the visions and
the other operations in the soul of this person draw her nearer unto God, and make her more
humble and obedient.

"2. It is the teaching of St. Thomas that an angel of light may be recognised by the peace
and quietness he leaves in the soul. She is never visited in this way, but she afterwards abides
in peace and joy; so much so, that all the pleasures of earth together are not comparable to
one of these visitations.

"3. She never commits a fault, nor falls into an imperfection, without being instantly rebuked
by Him who speaks interiorly to her.

"4. She has never prayed for nor wished for them: all she wishes for is to do the will of God
our Lord in all things.

"5. Everything herein is consistent with the Scriptures and the teaching of the Church, and
most true, according to the most rigorous principles of scholastic theology.

"6. This soul is most pure and sincere, with the most fervent desires of being pleasing unto
God, and of trampling on every earthly thing.

"7. She has been told that whatever she shall ask of God, being good, she shall have.  She
has asked much, and things not convenient to put on paper lest it should be wearisome; all
of which our Lord has granted.

"8. When these operations are from God, they are always directed to the good of the recipient,
to that of the community, or of some other.  That she has profited by them she knows by experience,
and she knows it, too, of other persons also.

"9. No one converses with her, if he be not in evil dispositions, who is not moved thereby
to devotion, even though she says nothing about it.

"10. She is growing daily in the perfection of virtues, and learns by these things the way
of a higher perfection.  And thus, during the whole time in which she had visions, she was
making progress, according to the doctrine of St. Thomas.

"11. The spirit that speaks to her soul never tells her anything in the way of news, or what
is unbecoming, but only that which tends to edification.

"12. She has been told of some persons that they were full of devils: but this was for the
purpose of enabling her to understand the state of a soul which has sinned mortally against
our Lord.

"13. The devil's method is, when he attempts to deceive a soul, to advise that soul never to
speak of what he says to it; but the spirit that speaks to this soul warns her to be open with
learned men, servants of our Lord, and that the devil may deceive her if she should conceal
anything through shame.

"14. So great is the progress of her soul in this way, and the edification she ministers in
the good example given, that more than forty nuns in her monastery practise great recollection.

"15. These supernatural things occur after long praying, when she is absorbed in God, on fire
with His love, or at Communion.

"16. They kindle in her a most earnest desire to be on the right road, and to escape the delusions
of Satan.

"17. They are in her the cause of the deepest humility; she understands that what she receives
comes to her from the hand of our Lord, and how little worth she is herself.

"18. When they are withheld, anything that occurs is wont to pain and distress her; but when
she is in this state, she remembers nothing; all she is conscious of is a great longing for
suffering, and so great is it that she is amazed at it.

"19. They are to her sources of joy and consolation in her troubles, when people speak ill
of her, and in her infirmities--and she has fearful pains about the heart, sicknesses, and
many other afflictions, all of which leave her when she has these visions.

"20. With all this, she undergoes great penances, fasting, the discipline, and mortifications.

"21. All that on earth may give her any pleasure, and her trials, which are many, she bears
with equal tranquillity of mind, without losing the peace and quiet of her soul.

"22. Her resolution never to offend our Lord is so earnest that she has made a vow never to
leave undone what she knows herself, or is told by those who understand the matter better,
to be the more perfect.  And though she holds the members of the Society to be saints, and
believes that our Lord made use of them to bestow on her graces so great, she told me that,
if she knew it would be more perfect to have nothing more to do with them, she would never
speak to them again, nor see them, notwithstanding the fact that it was through them that her
mind had been quieted and directed in these things.

"23. The sweetnesses she commonly receives, her sense of God, her languishing with love, are
certainly marvellous, and through these she is wont to be enraptured the whole day long.

"24. She frequently falls into a trance when she hears God spoken of with devotion and earnestness,
and cannot resist the rapture, do what she can; and in that state her appearance is such that
she excites very great devotion.

"25. She cannot bear to be directed by any one who will not tell her of her faults, and rebuke
her; all that she accepts with great humility.

"26. Moreover, she cannot endure people who are in a state of perfection, if they do not labour
to become perfect, according to the spirit of their rule.

"27. She is most detached from her kindred, has no desire to converse with people, and loves
solitude.  She has a great devotion to the saints, and on their feasts, and on the days on
which the Church celebrates the mysteries of the faith, is filled with most fervent affections
for our Lord.

"28. If all the members of the Society, and all the servants of God upon earth, tell her that
her state is an effect of the operations of Satan, or were to say so, she is in fear and trembling
before the visions occur; but as soon as she is in prayer, and recollected, she cannot be persuaded,
were they to tear her into a thousand pieces, that it is any other than God who is working
in her and speaking to her.

"29. God has given her a most wonderfully strong and valiant spirit: she was once timid; now
she tramples on all the evil spirits.  She has put far away from herself all the littleness
and silliness of women; she is singularly free from scruples, and most sincere.

"30. Besides, our Lord has given her the gift of most sweet tears, great compassion for her
neighbours, the knowledge of her own faults, a great reverence for good people, and self-abasement;
and I am certain that she has done good to many, of whom I am one.

"31. She is continually reminding herself of God, and has a sense of His presence.  All the
locutions have been verified, and every one of them accomplished; and this is a very great test.

"32. Her visions are a source of great clearness in her understanding, and an admirable illumination
in the things of God.

"33. It was said to her that she should lead those who were trying her spirit to look into
the Scriptures, and that they would not find that any soul desirous of pleasing God had been
so long deceived."

2. See Life, ch. xxix. sections 9-13.

3. De la Fuente thinks she means the religious state.

4. See Life, ch. xxiv. section 8, and ch. xxxi. section 22.

5. See Life, ch. xxiii. section 19.

6. See Life, ch. xxxv. section 2.

7. See Life, ch. ix. section 6, and ch. xiv. section 7.

8. See section 3, above.

9. St. Matt. vi. 31: "Nolite ergo solliciti esse, dicentes: Quid manducabimus. . . .  aut quo
operiemur?"

10. See Life, ch. vii. section 2.

11. See Life, ch. ii. section 2.

12. Section 2, above.

13. See Life, ch. xx. section 29.

14. See Life, ch. xxxi. section 17.

15. See Life, ch. xxv. section 20.

16. See Life, ch. xxv. sections 18, 22. [1]

Jesus.

I think it is more than a year since this was written; God has all this time protected me with
His hand, so that I have not become worse; on the contrary, I see a great change for the better
in all I have to say: may He be praised for it all!

1. The visions and revelations have not ceased, but they are of a much higher kind.  Our Lord
has taught me a way of prayer, wherein I find myself far more advanced, more detached from
the things of this life, more courageous, and more free. [2]  I fall into a trance more frequently,
for these ecstasies at times come upon me with great violence, and in such a way as to be outwardly
visible, I having no power to resist them; and even when I am with others--for they come in
such a way as admits of no disguising them, unless it be by letting people suppose that, as
I am subject to disease of the heart, they are fainting-fits; I take great pains, however,
to resist them when they are coming on--sometimes I cannot do it.

2. As to poverty, God seems to have wrought great things in me; for I would willingly be without
even what is necessary, unless given me as an alms; and therefore my longing is extreme that
I may be in such a state as to depend on alms alone for my food. It seems to me that to live,
when I am certain of food and raiment without fail, is not so complete an observance of my
vow or of the counsel of Christ as it would be to live where no revenue is possessed, and I
should be in want at times; and as to the blessings that come with true poverty, they seem
to me to be great, and I would not miss them.  Many times do I find myself with such great
faith, that I do not think God will ever fail those who serve Him, and without any doubt whatever
that there is, or can be, any time in which His words are not fulfilled: I cannot persuade
myself to the contrary, nor can I have any fear; and so, when they advise me to accept an endowment,
I feel it keenly, and betake myself unto God.

3. I think I am much more compassionate towards the poor than I used to be, having a great
pity for them and a desire to help them; for if I regarded only my good will, I should give
them even the habit I wear.  I am not fastidious with respect to them, even if I had to do
with them or touched them with my hands,--and this I now see is a gift of God; for though I
used to give alms for His love, I had no natural compassion.  I am conscious of a distinct
improvement herein.

4. As to the evil speaking directed against me,--which is considerable, and highly injurious
to me, and done by many,--I find myself herein also very much the better.  I think that what
they say makes scarcely any more impression upon me than it would upon an idiot.  I think at
times, and nearly always, that it is just.  I feel it so little that I see nothing in it that
I might offer to God, as I learn by experience that my soul gains greatly thereby; on the contrary,
the evil speaking seems to be a favour. And thus, the first time I go to prayer, I have no
ill-feeling against them; the first time I hear it, it creates in me a little resistance, but
it neither disturbs nor moves me; on the contrary, when I see others occasionally disturbed,
I am sorry for them.  So it is, I put myself out of the question; for all the wrongs of this
life seem to me so light, that it is not possible to feel them, because I imagine myself to
be dreaming, and see that all this will be nothing when I awake.

5. God is giving me more earnest desires, a greater love of solitude, a much greater detachment,
as I said, with the visions; by these He has made me know what all that is, even if I gave
up all the friends I have, both men and women and kindred.  This is the least part of it: my
kindred are rather a very great weariness to me; I leave them in all freedom and joy, provided
it be to render the least service unto God; and thus on every side I find peace.

6. Certain things, about which I have been warned in prayer, have been perfectly verified.
Thus, considering the graces received from God, I find myself very much better; but, considering
my service to Him in return, I am exceedingly worthless, for I have received greater consolation
than I have given, though sometimes that gives me grievous pain.  My penance is very scanty,
the respect shown me great, much against my own will very often. [3] However in a word, I see
that I live an easy, not a penitential, life; God help me, as He can!

7. It is now nine months, more or less, since I wrote this with mine own hand; since then I
have not turned my back on the graces which God has given me; I think I have received, so far
as I can see, a much greater liberty of late.  Hitherto I thought I had need of others, and
I had more reliance on worldly helps.  Now I clearly understand that all men are bunches of
dried rosemary, and that there is no safety in leaning on them, for if they are pressed by
contradictions or evil speaking they break down. And so I know by experience that the only
way not to fall is to cling to the cross, and put our trust in Him who was nailed thereto.
I find Him a real Friend, and with Him I find myself endowed with such might that, God never
failing me, I think I should be able to withstand the whole world if it were against me.

8. Having a clear knowledge of this truth, I used to be very fond of being loved by others;
now I do not care for that, yea, rather, their love seems to weary me in some measure, excepting
theirs who take care of my soul, or theirs to whom I think I do good.  Of the former I wish
to be loved, in order that they may bear with me; and of the latter, that they may be more
inclined to believe me when I tell them that all is vanity.

9. In the very grievous trials, persecutions, and contradictions of these months, [4] God gave
me great courage; and the more grievous they were, the greater the courage, without weariness
in suffering.  Not only had I no ill-feeling against those who spoke evil of me, but I had,
I believe, conceived a deeper affection for them.  I know not how it was; certainly it was
a gift from the hand of our Lord.

10. When I desire anything, I am accustomed naturally to desire it with some vehemence; now
my desires are so calm, that I do not even feel that I am pleased when I see them fulfilled.
Sorrow and joy, excepting in that which relates to prayer, are so moderated, that I seem to
be without sense, and in that state I remain for some days.

11. The vehement longings to do penance which come, and have come, upon me are great; and if
I do any penance, I feel it to be so slight in comparison with that longing, that I regard
it sometimes, and almost always, as a special consolation; however, I do but little, because
of my great weakness.

12. It is a very great pain to me very often, and at this moment most grievous, that I must
take food, particularly if I am in prayer.  It must be very great, for it makes me weep much,
and speak the language of affliction, almost without being aware of it, and that is what I
am not in the habit of doing, for I do not remember that I ever did so in the very heaviest
trials of my life: I am not a woman in these things, for I have a hard heart.

13. I feel in myself a very earnest desire, more so than usual, that God may find those who
will serve Him, particularly learned men, in all detachment, and who will not cleave to anything
of this world, for I see it is all a mockery; for when I see the great needs of the Church,
I look upon it as a mockery to be distressed about aught else.  I do nothing but pray to God
for such men, because I see that one person, who is wholly perfect in the true fervour of the
love of God, will do more good than many who are lukewarm.

14. In matters concerning the faith, my courage seems to me much greater.  I think I could
go forth alone by myself against the Lutherans, and convince them of their errors.  I feel
very keenly the loss of so many souls.  I see many persons making great progress; I see clearly
it was the pleasure of God that such progress should have been helped by me; and I perceive
that my soul, of His goodness, grows daily more and more in His love.

15. I think I could not be led away by vainglory, even if I seriously tried, and I do not see
how I could imagine any one of my virtues to be mine, for it is not long since I was for many
years without any at all; and now so far as I am concerned, I do nothing but receive graces,
without rendering any service in return, being the most worthless creature in the world.  And
so it is that I consider at times how all, except myself, make progress; I am good for nothing
in myself.  This is not humility only, but the simple truth; and the knowledge of my being
so worthless makes me sometimes think with fear that I must be under some delusion.  Thus I
see clearly that all my gain has come through the revelations and the raptures, in which I
am nothing myself, and do no more to effect them than the canvas does for the picture painted
on it.  This makes me feel secure and be at rest; and I place myself in the hands of God, and
trust my desires; for I know for certain that my desires are to die for Him, and to lose all
ease, and that whatever may happen.

16. There are days wherein I remember times without number the words of St. Paul, [5]--though
certainly they are not true of me,--that I have neither life, nor speech, nor will of my own,
but that there is One in me by whom I am directed and made strong; and I am, as it were, beside
myself, and thus life is a very grievous burden to me.  And the greatest oblation I make to
God, as the highest service on my part, is that I, when I feel it so painfully to be absent
from Him, am willing to live on for the love of Him.  I would have my life also full of great
tribulations and persecutions; now that I am unprofitable, I should like to suffer; and I would
endure all the tribulations in the world to gain ever so little more merit--I mean, by a more
perfect doing of His will.

17. Everything that I have learnt in prayer, though it may be two years previously, I have
seen fulfilled.  What I see and understand of the grandeurs of God, and of the way He has shown
them, is so high, that I scarcely ever begin to think of them but my understanding fails me,--for
I am as one that sees things far higher than I can understand,--and I become recollected.

18. God so keeps me from offending Him, that I am verily amazed at times.  I think I discern
the great care He takes of me, without my taking scarcely any care at all, being as I was,
before these things happened to me, a sea of wickedness and sins, and without a thought that
I was mistress enough of myself to leave them undone.  And the reason why I would have this
known is that the great power of God might be made manifest.  Unto Him be praise for ever and
ever!  Amen.

Jesus.

This Relation here set forth, not in my handwriting, is one that I gave to my confessor, and
which he with his own hand copied, without adding or diminishing a word.  He was a most spiritual
man and a theologian: I discussed the state of my soul with him, and he with other learned
men, among whom was Father Mancio. [6] They found nothing in it that is not in perfect agreement
with the holy writings.  This makes me calm now, though, while God is leading me by this way,
I feel that it is necessary for me to put no trust whatever in myself.  And so I have always
done, though it is painful enough.  You, my father, will be careful that all this goes under
the seal of confession, according to my request.

1. Addressed, it is believed, to her confessor, F. Pedro Ibanez. This Relation corresponds
with ch. xxxiv. of the Life (De la Fuente).

2. See Life, ch. xxvii.

3. See Life, ch. xxxi. section 15.

4. The Saint is supposed to refer to the troubles she endured during the foundation of the
monastery of St. Joseph.

5.

6. A celebrated Dominican, professor of theology in Salamanca (Bouix).

1. When I was in the monastery of Toledo, and some people were advising me not to allow any
but noble persons to be buried there, [1] our Lord said to me: "Thou wilt be very inconsistent,
My daughter, if thou regardest the laws of the world.  Look at Me, poor and despised of men:
are the great people of the world likely to be great in My eyes? or is it descent or virtue
that is to make you esteemed?"

2. After Communion, the second day of Lent, in St. Joseph of Malagon, our Lord Jesus Christ
appeared to me in an imaginary vision, as He is I wont to do; and when I was looking upon Him
I saw that He had on His head, instead of the crown of thorns, a crown of great splendour,
over the part where the wounds of that crown must have been.  And as I have a great devotion
to the crowning with thorns, I was exceedingly consoled, and began to think how great the pain
must have been because of the many wounds, and to be sorrowful.  Our Lord told me not to be
sad because of those wounds, but for the many wounds which men inflict upon Him now.  I asked
Him what I could do by way of reparation; for I was resolved to do anything.  He replied: "This
is not the time for rest;" that I must hasten on the foundations, for He would take His rest
with the souls which entered the monasteries; that I must admit all who offered themselves,
because there were many souls that did not serve Him because they had no place wherein to do
it; that those monasteries which were to be founded in small towns should be like this; that
the merit of those in them would be as great, if they only desired to do that which was done
in the other houses; that I must contrive to put them all under the jurisdiction of one superior,
[2] and take care that anxieties about means of bodily maintenance did not destroy interior
peace, for He would help us, so that we should never be in want of food.  Especial care was
to be had of the sick sisters; the prioress who did not provide for and comfort the sick was
like the friends of Job: He sent them sickness for the good of their souls, and careless superiors
risked the patience of their nuns.  I was to write the history of the foundation of the monasteries.
I was thinking how there was nothing to write about in reference to the foundation of Medina,
when He asked me, what more did I want to see than that the foundation there was miraculous?
By this He meant to say that He alone had done it, when it seemed impossible. [3]  I resolved
to execute His commands.

3. Our Lord told me something I was to tell another, and as I was considering how I did not
understand it at all,--though I prayed to Him, and was thinking it might be from Satan,--He
said to me that it was not, and that He Himself would warn me when the time came.

4. Once, when I was thinking how much more purely they live who withdraw themselves from all
business, and how ill it goes with me, and how many faults I must be guilty of, when I have
business to transact, I heard this: "It cannot be otherwise, My daughter; but strive thou always
after a good intention in all things, and detachment; lift up thine eyes to Me, and see that
all thine actions may resemble Mine."

5. Thinking how it was that I scarcely ever fell into a trance of late in public, I heard this:
"It is not necessary now; thou art sufficiently esteemed for My purpose; we are considering
the weakness of the wicked."

6. One Tuesday after the Ascension, [4] having prayed for awhile after Communion in great distress,
because I was so distracted that I could fix my mind on nothing, I complained of our poor nature
to our Lord.  The fire began to kindle in my soul, and I saw, as it seemed to me, the most
Holy Trinity [5] distinctly present in an intellectual vision, whereby my soul understood through
a certain representation, as a figure of the truth, so far as my dulness could understand,
how God is Three and One; and thus it seemed to me that all the Three Persons spoke to me,
that They were distinctly present in my soul, saying unto me "that from that day forth I should
see that my soul had grown better in three ways, and that each one of the Three Persons had
bestowed on me a distinct grace,--in charity, in suffering joyfully, in a sense of that charity
in my soul, accompanied with fervour." I learnt the meaning of those words of our Lord, that
the Three Divine Persons will dwell in the soul that is in a state of grace. [6]  Afterwards
giving thanks to our Lord for so great a mercy, and finding myself utterly unworthy of it,
I asked His Majesty with great earnestness how it was that He, after showing such mercies to
me, let me go out of His hand, and allowed me to become so wicked; for on the previous day
I had been in great distress on account of my sins, which I had set before me.  I saw clearly
then how much our Lord on His part had done, ever since my infancy, to draw me to Himself by
means most effectual, and yet, that all had failed.  Then I had a clear perception of the surpassing
love of God for us, in that He forgives us all this when we turn to Him, and for me more than
for any other, for many reasons.  The vision of the Three Divine Persons--one God--made so
profound an impression on my soul, that if it had continued it would have been impossible for
me not to be recollected in so divine a company.  What I saw and heard besides is beyond my
power to describe.

7. Once, when I was about to communicate,--it was shortly before I had this vision,--the Host
being still in the ciborium, for It had not yet been given me, I saw something like a dove,
which moved its wings with a sound.  It disturbed me so much, and so carried me away out of
myself, that it was with the utmost difficulty I received the Host.  All this took place in
St. Joseph of Avila.  It was Father Francis Salcedo who was giving me the most Holy Sacrament.
Hearing Mass another day, I saw our Lord glorious in the Host; He said to me that his sacrifice
was acceptable unto Him.

8. I heard this once: "The time will come when many miracles will be wrought in this church;
it will be called the holy church." It was in St. Joseph of Avila, in the year 1571.

9. I retain to this day, which is the Commemoration of St. Paul, the presence of the Three
Persons of which I spoke in the beginning; [7] they are present almost continually in my soul.
I, being accustomed to the presence of Jesus Christ only, always thought that the vision of
the Three Persons was in some degree a hindrance, though I know the Three Persons are but One
God. To-day, while thinking of this, our Lord said to me "that I was wrong in imagining that
those things which are peculiar to the soul can be represented by those of the body; I was
to understand that they were very different, and that the soul had a capacity for great fruition."
It seemed to me as if this were shown to me thus: as water penetrates and is drunk in by the
sponge, so, it seemed to me, did the Divinity fill my soul, which in a certain sense had the
fruition and possession of the Three Persons.  And I heard Him say also: "Labour thou not to
hold Me within thyself enclosed, but enclose thou thyself within Me."  It seemed to me that
I saw the Three Persons within my soul, and communicating Themselves to all creatures abundantly
without ceasing to be with me.

10. A few days after this, thinking whether they were right who disapproved of my going out
to make new foundations, and whether it would not be better for me if I occupied myself always
with prayer, I heard this: "During this life, the true gain consists not in striving after
greater joy in Me, but in doing My will." It seemed to me, considering what St. Paul says about
women, how they should stay at home, [8]--people reminded me lately of this, and, indeed, I
had heard it before,--it might be the will of God I should do so too.  He said to me: "Tell
them they are not to follow one part of the Scripture by itself, without looking to the other
parts also; perhaps, if they could, they would like to tie My hands."

11. One day after the octave of the Visitation, in one of the hermitages of Mount Carmel, praying
to God for one of my brothers, I said to our Lord,--I do not know whether it was only in thought
or not, for my brother was in a place where his salvation was in peril,--"If I saw one of Thy
brethren, O Lord, in this danger, what would I not do to help him!"  It seemed to me there
was nothing that I could do which I would not have done. Our Lord said to me: "O daughter,
daughter! the nuns of the Incarnation are thy sisters, and thou holdest back. Take courage,
then.  Behold, this is what I would have thee do: it is not so difficult as it seems; and though
it seems to thee that by going thither thy foundations will be ruined, yet it is by thy going
that both these and the monastery of the Incarnation will gain; resist not, for My power is
great." [9]

12. Once, when thinking of the great penance practised by Dona Catalina de Cardona, [10] and
how I might have done more, considering the desires which our Lord had given me at times, if
it had not been for my obedience to my confessors, I asked myself whether it would not be as
well if I disobeyed them for the future in this matter.  Our Lord said to me: "No, My daughter;
thou art on the sound and safe road.  Seest thou all her penance? I think more of thy obedience."

13. Once, when I was in prayer, He showed me by a certain kind of intellectual vision the condition
of a soul in a state of grace: in its company I saw by intellectual vision the most Holy Trinity,
from whose companionship the soul derived a power which was a dominion over the whole earth.
I understood the meaning of those words in the Canticle: "Let my Beloved come into His garden
and eat." [11]  He showed me also the condition of a soul in sin, utterly powerless, like a
person tied and bound and blindfold, who, though anxious to see, yet cannot, being unable to
walk or to hear, and in grievous obscurity.  I was so exceedingly sorry for such souls, that,
to deliver only one, any trouble seemed to me light.  I thought it impossible for any one who
saw this as I saw it,--and I can hardly explain it,--willingly to forfeit so great a good or
continue in so evil a state.

14. One day, in very great distress about the state of the Order, and casting about for means
to succour it, our Lord said to me: "Do thou what is in thy power, and leave Me to Myself,
and be not disquieted by anything; rejoice in the blessing thou hast received, for it is a
very great one.  My Father is pleased with thee, and the Holy Ghost loves thee."

15. "Thou art ever desiring trials, and, on the other hand, declining them.  I order things
according to what I know thy will is, and not according to thy sensuality and weakness.  Be
strong, for thou seest how I help thee; I have wished thee to gain this crown. Thou shalt see
the Order of the Virgin greatly advanced in thy days."  I heard this from our Lord about the
middle of February, 1571.

16. On the eve of St. Sebastian, the first year of my being in the monastery of the Incarnation
[12] as prioress there, at the beginning of the Salve, I saw the Mother of God descend with
a multitude of angels to the stall of the prioress, where the image of our Lady is, and sit
there herself.  I think I did not see the image then, but only our Lady.  She seemed to be
like that picture of her which the Countess [13] gave me; but I had no time to ascertain this,
because I fell at once into a trance. Multitudes of angels seemed to me to be above the canopies
of the stalls, and on the desks in front of them; but I saw no bodily forms, for the vision
was intellectual.  She remained there during the Salve, and said to me: "Thou hast done well
to place me here; I will be present when the sisters sing the praises of my Son, and will offer
them to Him."  After this I remained in that prayer which I still practise, and which is that
of keeping my soul in the company of the most Holy Trinity; and it seemed to me that the Person
of the Father drew me to Himself, and spoke to me most comfortable words.  Among them were
these, while showing how He loved me: "I give thee My Son, and the Holy Ghost, and the Virgin:
what canst thou give Me?" [14]

17. On the octave of the Holy Ghost, our Lord was gracious unto me, and gave me hopes of this
house, [15] that it would go on improving--I mean the souls that are in it.

18. On the feast of the Magdalene, our Lord again confirmed a grace I had received in Toledo,
electing me, in the absence of a certain person, in her place.

19. In the monastery of the Incarnation, and in the second year of my being prioress there,
on the octave of St. Martin, when I was going to Communion, the Father, Fr.  His Majesty said
to me: "Have no fear, My daughter; for no one will be able to separate thee from Me,"--giving
me to understand that the size of the Host mattered not.

20. Then appearing to me, as on other occasions, in an imaginary vision, most interiorly, He
held out His right hand and said: "Behold this nail! it is the pledge of thy being My bride
from this day forth.  Until now thou hadst not merited it; from henceforth thou shalt regard
My honour, not only as of one who is Thy Creator, King, and God, but as thine, My veritable
bride; My honour is thine, and thine is Mine."  This grace had such an effect on me, that I
could not contain myself: I became as one that is foolish, and said to our Lord: "Either ennoble
my vileness or cease to bestow such mercies on me, for certainly I do not think that nature
can bear them."  I remained thus the whole day, as one utterly beside herself.  Afterwards
I became conscious of great progress, and greater shame and distress to see that I did nothing
in return for graces so great.

21. Our Lord said this to me one day: "Thinkest thou, My daughter, that meriting lies in fruition?
No; merit lies only in doing, in suffering, and in loving.  You never heard that St. Paul had
the fruition of heavenly joys more than once; while he was often in sufferings. [17]  Thou
seest how My whole life was full of dolors, and only on Mount Tabor hast thou heard of Me in
glory. [18]  Do not suppose, when thou seest My Mother hold Me in her arms, that she had that
joy unmixed with heavy sorrows. From the time that Simeon spoke to her, My Father made her
see in clear light all I had to suffer.  The grand Saints of the desert, as they were led by
God, so also did they undergo heavy penances; besides, they waged serious war with the devil
and with themselves, and much of their time passed away without any spiritual consolation whatever.
Believe Me, My daughter, his trials are the heaviest whom My Father loves most; trials are
the measure of His love.  How can I show My love for thee better than by desiring for thee
what I desired for Myself?  Consider My wounds; thy pains will never reach to them.  This is
the way of truth; thus shalt thou help Me to weep over the ruin of those who are in the world,
for thou knowest how all their desires, anxieties, and thoughts tend the other way."  When
I began my prayer that day, my headache was so violent that I thought I could not possibly
go on.  Our Lord said to me: "Behold now, the reward of suffering.  As thou, on account of
thy health, wert unable to speak to Me, I spoke to thee and comforted thee." Certainly, so
it was; for the time of my recollection lasted about an hour and a half, more or less.  It
was then that He spoke to me the words I have just related, together with all the others. 
I was not able to distract myself, neither knew I where I was; my joy was so great as to be
indescribable; my headache was gone, and I was amazed, and I had a longing for suffering. He
also told me to keep in mind the words He said to His Apostles: "The servant is not greater
than his Lord." [19]

1. Alonzo Ramirez wished to have the right of burial in the new monastery, but the nobles of
Toledo looked on his request as unreasonable.  See Foundations, chs. xv. and xvi.

2. See Way of Perfection, ch. viii.; but ch. v. of the previous editions.

3. See Book of the Foundations, ch. iii.

4. In the copy kept in Toledo, the day is Tuesday after the Assumption (De la Fuente).

5. Ch. xxvii. section 10.

6. St. John xiv. 23: "Ad eum veniemus, et mansionem apud eum faciemus."

7. See section 6.

8. Titus ii. 5: "Sobrias, domus curam habentes."

9. This took place in 1571, when the Saint had been appointed prioress of the monastery of
the Incarnation at Avila; the very house she had left in order to found that of St. Joseph,
to keep the rule in its integrity.

10. See Book of the Foundations, ch. xxviii.

11. Cant. v. 1: "Veniat dilectus meus in hortum suum, et comedat."

12. A.D. 1572.

13. Maria de Velasco y Aragon, Countess of Osorno (Ribera, lib. iii. c. 1).

14. See Relation iv. section 2.

15. The monastery of the Incarnation, Avila (De la Fuente).

16. St. John of the Cross, at the instance of the Saint, was sent to Avila, with another father
of the reformed Carmelites, to be confessor of the nuns of the Incarnation, who then disliked
the observance of the primitive rule.

17. 2 Cor. xi. 27: "In labore et aerumna, in vigiliis multis."

18. St. Matt. xvii. 2: "Et transfiguratus est ante eos."

19. St. John xiii. 16: "Non est servus major domino suo."

1. I found myself the whole of yesterday in great desolation, and, except at Communion, did
not feel that it was the day of the Resurrection.  Last night, being with the community, I
heard one [1] of them singing how hard it is to be living away from God.  As I was then suffering,
the effect of that singing on me was such that a numbness began in my hands, and no efforts
of mine could hinder it; but as I go out of myself in raptures of joy, so then my soul was
thrown into a trance through the excessive pain, and remained entranced; and until this day
I had not felt this.  A few days previously I thought that the vehement impulses were not so
great as they used to be, and now it seems to be that the reason is what I have described;
I know not if it is so.  Hitherto the pain had not gone so far as to make me beside myself;
and as it is so unendurable, and as I retained the control of my senses, it made me utter loud
cries beyond my power to restrain.  Now that it has grown, it has reached this point of piercing
me; and I understand more of that piercing which our Lady suffered; for until to-day, as I
have just said, I never knew what that piercing was.  My body was so bruised, that I suffer
even now when I am writing this; for my hands are as if the joints were loosed, and in pain.
[2]  You, my father, will tell me when you see me whether this trance be the effect of suffering,
or whether I felt it, or whether I am deceived.

2. I was in this great pain till this morning; and, being in prayer, I fell into a profound
trance; and it seemed to me that our Lord had taken me up in spirit to His Father, and said
to Him: "Whom Thou hast given to Me, I give to Thee;" [3] and He seemed to draw me near to
Himself.  This is not an imaginary vision, but one most certain, and so spiritually subtile
that it cannot be explained.  He spoke certain words to me which I do not remember.  Some of
them referred to His grace, which He bestows on me.  He kept me by Him for some time.

3. As you, my father, went away yesterday so soon, and I consider the many affairs which detain
you, so that it is impossible for me to have recourse to you for comfort even when necessary,--for
I see that your occupations are most urgent,--I was for some time in pain and sadness.  As
I was then in desolation,--as I said before,--that helped me; and as nothing on earth, I thought,
had any attractions for me, I had a scruple, and feared I was beginning to lose that liberty.
This took place last night; and to-day our Lord answered my doubt, and said to me "that I was
not to be surprised; for as men seek for companions with whom they may speak of their sensual
satisfactions, so the soul--when there is any one who understands it--seeks those to whom it
may communicate its pleasures and its pains, and is sad and mourns when it can find none."
He said to me: "Thou art prosperous now, and thy works please Me."  As He remained with me
for some time, I remembered that I had told you, my father, that these visions pass quickly
away; He said to me "that there was a difference between these and the imaginary visions, and
that there could not be an invariable law concerning the graces He bestowed on us; for it was
expedient to give them now in one way, now in another."

4. After Communion, I saw our Lord most distinctly close beside me; and He began to comfort
me with great sweetness, and said to me, among other things: "Thou beholdest Me present, My
daughter,--it is I.  Show me thy hands."  And to me He seemed to take them and to put them
to His side, and said: "Behold My wounds; thou art not without Me.  Finish the short course
of thy life."  By some things He said to me, I understood that, after His Ascension, He never
came down to the earth except in the most Holy Sacrament to communicate Himself to any one.
He said to me, that when He rose again He showed Himself to our Lady, because she was in great
trouble; for sorrow had so pierced her soul that she did not even recover herself at once in
order to have the fruition of that joy.  By this I saw how different was my piercing. [4] 
But what must that of the Virgin have been? He remained long with her then because it was necessary
to console her.

5. On Palm Sunday, at Communion, I was in a deep trance,--so much so, that I was not able even
to swallow the Host; and, still having It in my mouth, when I had come a little to myself,
I verily believed that my mouth was all filled with Blood; and my face and my whole body seemed
to be covered with It, as if our Lord had been shedding It at that moment.  I thought It was
warm, and the sweetness I then felt was exceedingly great; and our Lord said to me: "Daughter,
My will is that My Blood should profit thee; and be not thou afraid that My compassion will
fail thee. I shed It in much suffering, and, as thou seest, thou hast the fruition of It in
great joy.  I reward thee well for the pleasure thou gavest me to-day."  He said this because
I have been in the habit of going to Communion, if possible, on this day for more than thirty
years, and of labouring to prepare my soul to be the host of our Lord; for I considered the
cruelty of the Jews to be very great, after giving Him so grand a reception, in letting Him
go so far for supper; and I used to picture Him as remaining with me, and truly in a poor lodging,
as I see now.  And thus I used to have such foolish thoughts--they must have been acceptable
to our Lord, for this was one of the visions which I regard as most certain; and, accordingly
it has been a great blessing to me in the matter of Communion.

6. Previous to this, I had been, I believe, for three days in that great pain, which I feel
sometimes more than at others, because I am away from God; and during those days it had been
very great, and seemingly more than I could bear.  Being thus exceedingly wearied by it, I
saw it was late to take my collation, nor could I do so,--for if I do not take it a little
earlier, it occasions great weakness because of my sickness; and then, doing violence to myself,
I took up some bread to prepare for collation, and on the instant Christ appeared, and seemed
to be breaking the bread and putting it into my mouth.  He said to me: "Eat, My daughter, and
bear it as well as thou canst. I condole with thee in thy suffering; but it is good for thee
now." My pain was gone, and I was comforted; for He seemed to be really with me then, and the
whole of the next day; and with this my desires were then satisfied.  The word "condole" made
me strong; for now I do not think I am suffering at all.

1. Isabel of Jesus, born in Segovia, and whose family name was Jimena, told Ribera (vide lib.
iv. c. v.) that she was the singer, being then a novice in Salamanca.

2. See Fortress of the Soul, vi. ch. xi.

3. See Relation, iii. section 16.

4. See above, section 1.

Relation V.

Observations on Certain Points of Spirituality.

1. "What is it that distresses thee, little sinner?  Am I not thy God?  Dost thou not see how
ill I am treated here?  If thou lovest Me, why art thou not sorry for Me?  Daughter, light
is very different from darkness.  I am faithful; no one will be lost without knowing it.  He
must be deceiving himself who relies on spiritual sweetnesses; the true safety lies in the
witness of a good conscience. [1]  But let no one think that of himself he can abide in the
light, any more than he can hinder the natural night from coming on; for that depends on My
grace.  The best means he can have for retaining the light is the conviction in his soul that
he can do nothing of himself, and that it comes from Me; for, even if he were in the light,
the instant I withdraw, night will come.  True humility is this: the soul's knowing what itself
can do, and what I can do.  Do not neglect to write down the counsels I give thee, that thou
mayest not forget them. Thou seekest to have the counsels of men in writing; why, then, thinkest
thou that thou art wasting time in writing down those I give thee?  The time will come when
thou shalt require them all."

On Union.

2. "Do not suppose, My daughter, that to be near to Me is union; for they who sin against Me
are near Me, though they do not wish it.  Nor is union the joys and comforts of union, [2]
though they be of the very highest kind, and though they come from Me. These very often are
means of winning souls, even if they are not in a state of grace."  When I heard this, I was
in a high degree lifted up in spirit.  Our Lord showed me what the spirit was, and what the
state of the soul was then, and the meaning of those words of the Magnificat, "Exultavit spiritus
meus."  He showed me that the spirit was the higher part of the will.

3. To return to union; I understood it to be a spirit, pure and raised up above all the things
of earth, with nothing remaining in it that would swerve from the will of God, being a spirit
and a will resigned to His will, and in detachment from all things, occupied in God in such
a way as to leave no trace of any love of self, or of any created thing whatever. [3]  Thereupon,
I considered that, if this be union, it comes to this, that, as my soul is always abiding in
this resolution, we can say of it that it is always in this prayer of union: and yet it is
true that the union lasts but a very short time.  It was suggested to me that, as to living
in justice, meriting and making progress, it will be so; but it cannot be said that the soul
is in union as it is when in contemplation; and I thought I understood, yet not by words heard,
that the dust of our wretchedness, faults, and imperfections, wherein we bury ourselves, is
so great, that it is not possible to live in such pureness as the spirit is in when in union
with God, raised up and out of our wretched misery.  And I think, if it be union to have our
will and spirit in union with the will and Spirit of God, that it is not possible for any one
not in a state of grace to attain thereto; and I have been told so.  Accordingly, I believe
it is very difficult to know when the soul is in union; to have that knowledge is a special
grace of God, because nobody can tell whether he is in a state of grace or not. [4]

4. You will show me in writing, my father, what you think of this, and how I am in the wrong,
and send me this paper back.

5. I had read in a book that it was an imperfection to possess pictures well painted,--and
I would not, therefore, retain in my cell one that I had; and also, before I had read this,
I thought that it was poverty to possess none, except those made of paper,--and, as I read
this afterwards, I would not have any of any other material.  I learnt from our Lord, when
I was not thinking at all about this, what I am going to say: "that this mortification was
not right.  Which is better, poverty or charity?  But as love was the better, whatever kindled
love in me, that I must not give up, nor take away from my nuns; for the book spoke of much
adorning and curious devices--not of pictures. [5]  What Satan was doing among the Lutherans
was the taking away from them all those means by which their love might be the more quickened;
and thus they were going to perdition. Those who are loyal to Me, My daughter, must now, more
than ever, do the very reverse of what they do."  I understood that I was under great obligations
to serve our Lady and St. Joseph, because, when I was utterly lost, God, through their prayers,
came and saved me.

6. One day, after the feast of St. Matthew, [6] I was as is usual with me, after seeing in
a vision the most Holy Trinity, and how It is present in a soul in a state of grace. [7]  I
understood the mystery most clearly, in such a way that, after a certain fashion and comparisons,
I saw It in an imaginary vision. And though at other times I have seen the most Holy Trinity
in an intellectual vision, for some days after the truth of it did not rest with me,--as it
does now,--I mean, so that I could dwell upon it.  I see now that it is just as learned men
told me; and I did not understand it as I do now, though I believed them without the least
hesitation; for I never had any temptations against the faith.

7. It seems to us ignorant women that the Persons of the most Holy Trinity are all Three, as
we see Them painted, in one Person, after the manner of those pictures, which represent a body
with three faces; and thus it causes such astonishment in us that we look on it as impossible,
and so there is nobody who dares to think of it; for the understanding is perplexed, is afraid
it may come to doubt the truth, and that robs us of a great blessing.

8. What I have seen is this: Three distinct Persons each one by Himself visible, and by Himself
speaking. [8]  And afterwards I have been thinking that the Son alone took human flesh, whereby
this truth is known.  The Persons love, communicate, and know Themselves.  Then, if each one
is by Himself, how can we say that the Three are one Essence, and so believe?  That is a most
deep truth, and I would die for it a thousand times.  In the Three Persons there is but one
will and one power and one might; neither can One be without Another: so that of all created
things there is but one sole Creator.  Could the Son create an ant without the Father?  No;
because the power is all one.  The same is to be said of the Holy Ghost.  Thus, there is one
God Almighty, and the Three Persons are one Majesty.  Is it possible to love the Father without
loving the Son and the Holy Ghost? No; for he who shall please One of the Three pleases the
Three Persons; and he who shall offend One offends All.  Can the Father be without the Son
and without the Holy Ghost?  No; for They are one substance, and where One is there are the
Three; for they cannot be divided.  How, then, is it that we see the Three Persons distinct?
and how is it that the Son, not the Father, nor the Holy Ghost, took human flesh?  This is
what I have never understood; theologians know it.  I know well that the Three were there when
that marvellous work was done, and I do not busy myself with much thinking thereon.  All my
thinking thereon comes at once to this: that I see God is almighty, that He has done what He
would, and so can do what He will.  The less I understand it, the more I believe it, and the
greater the devotion it excites in me.  May He be blessed for ever!  Amen.

9. If our Lord had not been so gracious with me as He has been, I do not think I should have
had the courage to do what has been done, nor strength to undergo the labours endured, with
the contradictions and the opinions of men.  And accordingly, since the beginning of the foundations,
I have lost the fears I formerly had, thinking that I was under delusions,--and I had a conviction
that it was the work of God: having this, I ventured upon difficult things, though always with
advice and under obedience.  I see in this that when our Lord willed to make a beginning of
the Order, and of His mercy made use of me, His Majesty had to supply all that I was deficient
in, which was everything, in order that the work might be effected, and that His greatness
might be the more clearly revealed in one so wicked.

10. Antiochus was unendurable to himself, and to those who were about him, because of the stench
of his many sins. [9]

11. Confession is for faults and sins, and not for virtues, nor for anything of the kind relating
to prayer.  These things are to be treated of out of confession with one who understands the
matter,--and let the prioress see to this; and the nun must explain the straits she is in,
in order that the proper helps may be found for her; for Cassian says that he who does not
know the fact, as well as he who has never seen or learnt, that men can swim, will think, when
he sees people throw themselves into the river, that they will all be drowned. [10]

12. Our Lord would have Joseph tell the vision to his brethren, and have it known, though it
was to cost Joseph so much.

13. How the soul has a sense of fear when God is about to bestow any great grace upon it; that
sense is the worship of the spirit, as that of the four [11] elders spoken of in Scripture.

14. How, when the faculties are suspended, it is to be understood that certain matters are
suggested to the soul, to be by it recommended to God; that an angel suggests them, of whom
it is said in the Scriptures that he was burning incense and offering up the prayers of the
saints. [12]

15. How there are no sins where there is no knowledge; and thus our Lord did not permit the
king to sin with the wife of Abraham, for he thought that she was his sister, not his wife.

1. 2 Cor. i. 12: "Gloria nostra haec est, testimonium conscientiae nostrae."

2. See Foundations, ch. v. section 10.

4. Eccl. ix. 1: "Nescit homo utrum amore an odio dignus sit."

5.

6. The sections 6, 7, and 8 are the thirteenth letter of the second volume, ed. Doblado.

7. See Relation iii. section 13.

8. Anton. a Sancto Joseph, in his notes on this passage, is anxious to save the Thomist doctrine
that one of the Divine Persons cannot be seen without the other, and so he says that the Saint
speaks of the Three Persons as she saw Them--not as They are in Themselves.

9. 2 Maccab. ix. 10, 12: "Eum nemo poterat propter intolerantiam foetoris portare, . . . .
nec ipse jam foetorem suum ferre posset."

10. Cassian, Collat. vii. cap. iv. p. 311: "Nec enim si quis ignarus natandi, sciens pondus
corporis sui ferre aquarum liquorem non posse, experimento suae voluerit imperitiae definire,
neminem penitus posse liquidis elementis solida carne circumdatum sustineri."

11. Anton. a Sancto Joseph says that the Saint meant to write four-and-twenty, in allusion
to Apoc. iv. 4.

12. Apoc. viii. 4.

1. In the year 1575, in the month of April, when I was founding the monastery of Veas, Fra
Jerome of the Mother of God Gratian happened to come thither. [1]  I began to go to confession
to him from time to time, though not looking upon him as filling the place of the other confessors
I had, so as to be wholly directed by him.  One day, when I was taking food, but without any
interior recollection whatever, my soul began to be recollected in such a way that I thought
I must fall into a trance; and I had a vision, that passed away with the usual swiftness, like
a meteor.  I seemed to see close beside me Jesus Christ our Lord, in the form wherein His Majesty
is wont to reveal Himself, with F. Gratian on His right.  Our Lord took his right hand and
mine, and, joining them together, said to me that He would have me accept him in His place
for my whole life, and that we were both to have one mind in all things, for so it was fitting.
I was profoundly convinced that this was the work of God, though I remembered with regret two
of my confessors whom I frequented in turn for a long time, and to whom I owed much; that one
for whom I have a great affection especially caused a terrible resistance. Nevertheless, not
being able to persuade myself that the vision was a delusion, because it had a great power
and influence over me, and also because it was said to me on two other occasions that I was
not to be afraid, that He wished this,--the words were different,--I made up my mind at last
to act upon them, understanding it to be our Lord's will, and to follow that counsel so long
as I should live.  I had never before so acted with any one, though I had consulted many persons
of great learning and holiness, and who watched over my soul with great care,--but neither
had I received any such direction as that I should make no change; for as to my confessors,
of some I understood that they would be profitable to me, and so also of these.

2. When I had resolved on this, I found myself in peace and comfort so great that I was amazed,
and assured of our Lord's will; for I do not think that Satan could fill the soul with peace
and comfort such as this: and so, whenever I think of it, I praise our Lord, and remember the
words, "posuit fines tuos pacem," [2] and I wish I could wear myself out in the praises of God.

3. It must have been about a month after this my resolve was made, on the second day after
Pentecost, when I was going to found the monastery in Seville, that we heard Mass in a hermitage
in Ecija, and rested there during the hottest part of the day. Those who were with me remained
in the hermitage while I was by myself in the sacristy belonging to it.  I began to think of
one great grace which I received of the Holy Ghost, on one of the vigils of His feast, [3]
and a great desire arose within me of doing Him some most special service, and I found nothing
that was not already done,--at least, resolved upon,--for all I do must be faulty; and I remembered
that, though I had already made a vow of obedience, it might be made in greater perfection,
and I had an impression it would be pleasing unto Him if I promised that which I was already
resolved upon, to live under obedience to the Father-Master, Fr. Jerome.  On the other hand,
I seemed to be doing nothing, because I was already bent on doing it; on the other hand, it
would be a very serious thing, considering that our interior state is not made known to the
superiors who receive our vows, and that they change, and that, if one is not doing his work
well, another comes in his place; and I believed I should have none of my liberty all my life
long, either outwardly or inwardly, and this constrained me greatly to abstain from making
the vow.  This repugnance of the will made me ashamed, and I saw that, now I had something
I could do for God, I was not doing it; it was a sad thing for my resolution to serve Him.
The fact is, that the objection so pressed me, that I do not think I ever did anything in my
life that was so hard--not even my profession--unless it be that of my leaving my father's
house to become a nun. [4]  The reason of this was that I had forgotten my affection for him,
and his gifts for directing me; yea, rather, I was looking on it then as a strange thing, which
has surprised me; feeling nothing but a great fear whether the vow would be for the service
of God or not: and my natural self--which is fond of liberty--must have been doing its work,
though for years now I have no pleasure in it.  But it seemed to me a far other matter to give
up that liberty by a vow, as in truth it is.  After a protracted struggle, our Lord gave me
great confidence; and I saw it was the better course, the more I felt about it: if I made this
promise in honour of the Holy Ghost, He would be bound to give him light for the direction
of my soul; and I remembered at the same time that our Lord had given him to me as my guide.
Thereupon I fell upon my knees, and, to render this tribute of service to the Holy Ghost, made
a promise to do whatever he should bid me do while I lived, provided nothing were required
of me contrary to the law of God and the commands of superiors whom I am more bound to obey.
I adverted to this, that the obligation did not extend to things of little importance,--as
if I were to be importunate with him about anything, and he bade me cease, and I neglected
his advice and repeated my request,--nor to things relating to my convenience.  In a word,
his commands were not to be about trifles, done without reflection; and I was not knowingly
to conceal from him my faults and sins, or my interior state; and this, too, is more than we
allow to superiors.  In a word, I promised to regard him as in the place of God, outwardly
and inwardly.  I know not if it be so, but I seemed to have done a great thing in honour of
the Holy Ghost--at least, it was all I could do, and very little it was in comparison with
what I owe Him.

4. I give God thanks, who has created one capable of this work: I have the greatest confidence
that His Majesty will bestow on him great graces; and I myself am so happy and joyous, that
I seem to be in every way free from myself; and though I thought that my obedience would be
a burden, I have attained to the greatest freedom.  May our Lord be praised for ever!

1. See Foundations, ch. xxii.

2. Psalm cxlvii. 14: "He hath made thy borders peace."

3. Perhaps the Saint refers to what she has written in her Life, ch. xxxviii. sections 11, 12.

4. Life, ch. iv. section 1.

1. This nun took the habit forty years ago, and from the first began to reflect on the mysteries
of the Passion of Christ our Lord, and on her own sins, for some time every day, without thinking
at all of anything supernatural, but only of created things, or of such subjects as suggested
to her how soon the end of all things must come, discerning in creatures the greatness of God
and His love for us.

2. This made her much more willing to serve Him: she was never under the influence of fear,
and made no account of it, but had always a great desire to see God honoured, and His glory
increased.  To that end were all her prayers directed, without making any for herself; for
she thought that it mattered little if she had to suffer in purgatory in exchange for the increase
of His glory even in the slightest degree.

3. In this she spent about two-and-twenty years in great aridities, and never did it enter
into her thoughts to desire anything else; for she regarded herself as one who, she thought,
did not deserve even to think about God, except that His Majesty was very merciful to her in
allowing her to remain in His presence, saying her prayers, reading also in good books.

4. It must be about eighteen years since she began to arrange about the first monastery of
Barefooted Carmelites which she founded.  It was in Avila, three or two years before,--I believe
it is three,--she began to think that she occasionally heard interior locutions, and had visions
and revelations interiorly. She saw with the eyes of the soul, for she never saw anything with
her bodily eyes, nor heard anything with her bodily ears; twice, she thinks, she heard a voice,
but she understood not what was said.  It was a sort of making things present when she saw
these things interiorly; they passed away like a meteor most frequently.  The vision, however,
remained so impressed on her mind, and produced such effects, that it was as if she saw those
things with her bodily eyes, and more.

5. She was then by nature so very timid, that she would not dare to be alone even by day, at
times.  And as she could not escape from these visitations, though she tried with all her might,
she went about in very great distress, afraid that it was a delusion of Satan, and began to
consult spiritual men of the Society of Jesus about it, among whom were Father Araoz, who was
Commissary of the Society, and who happened to go to that place, and Father Francis, who was
Duke of Gandia,--him she consulted twice; [1] also a Provincial, now in Rome, called Gil Gonzalez,
and him also who is now Provincial of Castille,--this latter, however, not so often,--Father
Baltasar Alvarez who is now Rector in Salamanca; and he heard her confession for six years
at this time; also the present Rector of Cuenca, Salazar by name; the Rector of Segovia, called
Santander; the Rector of Burgos, whose name is Ripalda,--and he thought very ill of her when
he heard of these things, till after he had conversed with her; the Doctor Paul Hernandez in
Toledo, who was a Consultor of the Inquisition, him who was Rector in Salamanca when she talked
to him; the Doctor Gutierrez, and other fathers, some of the Society, whom she knew to be spiritual
men, these she sought out, if any were in those places where she went to found monasteries.

6. With the Father Fra Peter of Alcantara, who was a holy man of the Barefooted Friars of St.
Francis, she had many communications, and he it was who insisted so much upon it that her spirit
should be regarded as good.  They were more than six years trying her spirit minutely, as it
is already described at very great length, [2] as will be shown hereafter: and she herself
in tears and deep affliction; for the more they tried her, the more she fell into raptures,
and into trances very often,--not, however, deprived of her senses.

7. Many prayers were made, and many Masses were said, that our Lord would lead her by another
way, [3] for her fear was very great when she was not in prayer; though in everything relating
to the state of her soul she was very much better, and a great difference was visible, there
was no vainglory, nor had she any temptation thereto, nor to pride; on the contrary, she was
very much ashamed and confounded when she saw that people knew of her state, and except with
her confessors or any one who would give her light, she never spoke of these things, and it
was more painful to speak of them than if they had been grave sins; for it seemed to her that
people must laugh at her, [4] and that these things were womanish imaginations, which she had
always heard of with disgust.

8. About thirteen years ago, more or less, after the house of St. Joseph was founded, into
which she had gone from the other monastery, came the present Bishop of Salamanca, Inquisitor,
I think, of Toledo, previously of Seville, Soto by name. [5]  She contrived to have a conference
with him for her greater security, and told him everything.  He replied, that there was nothing
in all this that concerned his office, because everything that she saw and heard confirmed
her the more in the Catholic faith, in which she always was, and is, firm, with most earnest
desires for the honour of God and the good of souls, willing to suffer death many times for
one of them.

9. He told her, when he saw how distressed she was, to give an account of it all, and of her
whole life, without omitting anything, to the Master Avila, who was a man of great learning
in the way of prayer, and to rest content with the answer he should give.  She did so, and
described her sins and her life.  He wrote to her and comforted her, giving her great security.
The account I gave was such that all those learned men who saw it--they were my confessors--said
that it was very profitable for instruction in spiritual things; and they commanded her to
make copies of it, and write another little book [6] for her daughters,--she was prioress,--wherein
she might give them some instructions.

10. Notwithstanding all this, she was not without fears at times, for she thought that spiritual
men also might be deceived like herself.  She told her confessor that he might discuss these
things with certain learned men, though they were not much given to prayer, for she had no
other desire but that of knowing whether what she experienced was in conformity with the sacred
writings or not.  Now and then she took comfort in thinking that--though she herself, because
of her sins, deserved to fall into delusions--our Lord would not suffer so many good men, anxious
to give her light, to be led into error.

11. Having this in view, she began to communicate with fathers of the Order of the glorious
St. Dominic, to which, before these things took place, she had been to confession--she does
not say to them, but to the Order. [7]  These are they with whom she afterwards had relations.
The Father Fra Vicente Barron, at that time Consultor of the Holy Office, heard her confessions
for eighteen months in Toledo, and he had done so very many years before these things began.
He was a very learned man. He reassured her greatly, as did also the fathers of the Society
spoken of before.  All used to say, If she does not sin against God, and acknowledges her own
misery, what has she to be afraid of?  She confessed to the Father Fra Pedro Ibanez, who was
reader in Avila; to the Father-Master Fra Dominic Banes, who is now in Valladolid as rector
of the college of St. Gregory, I confessed for six years, and whenever I had occasion to do
so communicated with him by letter; also to the Master Chaves; to the Father-Master Fra Bartholomew
of Medina, professor in Salamanca, of whom she knew that he thought ill of her; for she, having
heard this, thought that he, better than any other, could tell her if she was deceived, because
he had so little confidence in her.  This was more than two years ago.  She contrived to go
to confession to him, and gave him a full account of everything while she remained there; and
he saw what she had written, [8] for the purpose of attaining to a better understanding of
the matter.  He reassured her so much, and more than all the rest, and remained her very good
friend.

12. She went to confession also to Fra Philip de Meneses, when she founded the monastery of
Valladolid, for he was rector of the college of St. Gregory.  He, having before that heard
of her state, had gone to Avila, that he might speak to her,--it was an act of great charity,--being
desirous of ascertaining whether she was deluded, so that he might enlighten her, and, if she
was not, defend her when he heard her spoken against; and he was much satisfied.

13. She also conferred particularly with Salinas, Dominican Provincial, a man of great spirituality;
with another licentiate named Lunar, who was prior of St. Thomas of Avila; and, in Segovia,
with a reader, Fra Diego de Yangues.

14. Of these Dominicans some never failed to give themselves greatly to prayer, and perhaps
all did.  Some others also she consulted; for in so many years, and because of the fear she
was in, she had opportunities of doing so, especially as she went about founding monasteries
in so many places.  Her spirit was tried enough, for everybody wished to be able to enlighten
her, and thereby reassured her and themselves.  She always, at all times, wished to submit
herself to whatever they enjoined her, and she was therefore distressed when, as to these spiritual
things, she could not obey them.  Both her own prayer, and that of the nuns she has established,
are always carefully directed towards the propagation of the faith; and it was for that purpose,
and for the good of her Order, that she began her first monastery.

15. She used to say that, if any of these things tended to lead her against the Catholic faith
and the law of God, she would not need to seek for learned men nor tests, because she would
see at once that they came from Satan.  She never undertook anything merely because it came
to her in prayer; on the contrary, when her confessors bade her do the reverse, she did so
without being in the least troubled thereat, and she always told them everything.  For all
that they told her that these things came from God, she never so thoroughly believed them that
she could swear to it herself, though it did seem to her that they were spiritually safe, because
of the effects thereof, and of the great graces which she at times received; but she always
desired virtues more than anything else; and this it is that she has charged her nuns to desire,
saying to them that the most humble and mortified will be the most spiritual.

16. All that is told and written she communicated to the Father-Master Fra Dominic Banes, who
is now in Valladolid, and who is the person with whom she has had, and has still, the most
frequent communications.  He sent her writings to the Holy Office in Madrid, so it is said.
In all this she submits herself to the Catholic faith and the Roman Church.  Nobody has found
fault with them, because these things are not in the power of any man, and our Lord does not
require what is impossible.

17. The reason why so much is known about her is that, as she was in fear about herself, and
described her state to so many, these talked to one another on the subject and also the accident
that happened to what she had written. [9]  This has been to her a very grievous torment and
cross, and has cost her many tears. She says that this distress is not the effect of humility,
but of the causes already mentioned.  Our Lord seems to have given permission [10] for this
torture for if one spoke more harshly of her than others, by little and little he spoke more
kindly of her.  If she saw any one timid about these things, to him she laid bare her secrets
with the greater joy; though also it gave her pain when, for the purpose of trying her, these
things were treated with contempt, for she thought some were really from God, and she would
not have people, even if they had good cause, condemn them so absolutely; neither would she
have them believe that all were from God; and because she knew perfectly well that delusion
was possible, therefore it was that she never thought herself altogether safe in a matter wherein
there might be danger.

19. She used to strive with all her might never in any way to offend God, and was always obedient;
and by these means she thought she might obtain her deliverance, by the help of God, even if
Satan were the cause.

20. Ever since she became subject to these supernatural visitations, her spirit is always inclined
to seek after that which is most perfect, and she had almost always a great desire to suffer;
and in the persecutions she underwent, and they were many, she was comforted, and had a particular
affection for her persecutors.  She had a great desire to be poor and lonely, and to depart
out of this land of exile in order to see God. Through these effects, and others like them,
she began to find peace, thinking that a spirit which could leave her with these virtues could
not be an evil one, and they who had the charge of her soul said so; but it was a peace that
came from diminished weariness, not from the cessation of fear.

21. The spirit she is of never urged her to make any of these things known, but to be always
obedient. [11]  As it has been said already, [12] she never saw anything with her bodily eyes,
but in a way so subtile and so intellectual that at first she sometimes thought that all was
the effect of imagination; at other times she could not think so.  These things were not continual,
but occurred for the most part when she was in some trouble: as on one occasion, when for some
days she had to bear unendurable interior pains, and a restlessness of soul arising out of
the fear that she was deluded by Satan, as it is described at length in the account she has
given of it, [13] and where her sins, for they have been so public, are mentioned with the
rest: for the fear she was in made her forget her own good name.

22. Being thus in distress such as cannot be described, at the mere hearing interiorly these
words, [14] "It is I, be not afraid," her soul became so calm, courageous, and confident, that
she could not understand whence so great a blessing had come; for her confessor had not been
able--and many learned men, with many words, had not been able--to give her that peace and
rest which this one word had given her.  And thus, at other times, some vision gave her strength,
for without that she could not have borne such great trials and contradictions, together with
infirmities without number, and which she still has to bear, though they are not so many,--for
she is never free from some suffering or other, more or less intense.  Her ordinary state is
constant pain, with many other infirmities, though since she became a nun they are more troublesome,
if she is doing anything in the service of our Lord.  And the mercies He shows her pass quickly
out of memory, though she often dwells on those mercies,--but she is not able to dwell so long
upon these as upon her sins; these are always a torment to her, most commonly as filth smelling
foully.

23. That her sins are so many, and her service of God so scanty, must be the reason why she
is not tempted to vainglory. There never was anything in any of these spiritual visitations
that was not wholly pure and clean, nor does she think it can be otherwise if the spirit be
good and the visitations supernatural, for she utterly neglects the body and never thinks of
it, being wholly intent upon God.

24. She is also living in great fear about sinning against God, and doing His will in all things;
this is her continual prayer. And she is, she thinks, so determined never to swerve from this,
that there is nothing her confessors might enjoin her, which she considers to be for the greater
honour of our Lord, that she would not undertake and perform, by the help of our Lord. And
confident that His Majesty helps those who have resolved to advance His service and glory,
she thinks no more of herself and of her own progress, in comparison with that, than if she
did not exist, so far as she knows herself, and her confessors think so too.

25. All that is written in this paper is the simple truth, and they, and all others who have
had anything to do with her for these twenty years, can justify it.  Most frequently her spirit
urged her to praise God, and she wished that all the world gave itself up to that, even though
it should cost her exceedingly. Hence the desire she has for the good of souls; and from considering
how vile are the things of this world, and how precious are interior things, with which nothing
can be compared, she has attained to a contempt of the world.

26. As for the vision about which you, my father, wish to know something, it is of this kind:
she sees nothing either outwardly or inwardly, for the vision is not imaginary: but, without
seeing anything, she understands what it is, and where it is, more clearly than if she saw
it, only nothing in particular presents itself to her.  She is like a person who feels that
another is close beside her; but because she is in the dark she sees him not, yet is certain
that he is there present.  Still, this comparison is not exact; for he who is in the dark,
in some way or other, through hearing a noise or having seen that person before, knows he is
there, or knew it before; but here there is nothing of the kind, for without a word, inward
or outward, the soul clearly perceives who it is, where he is, and occasionally what he means.
[15]  Why, or how, she perceives it, she knoweth not; but so it is; and while it lasts, she
cannot help being aware of it.  And when it is over,--though she may wish ever so much to retain
the image thereof,--she cannot do it, for it is then clear to her that it would be, in that
case, an act of the imagination, not the vision itself,--that is not in her power; and so it
is with the supernatural things.  And it is from this it comes to pass that he in whom God
works these graces despises himself, and becomes more humble than he was ever before, for he
sees that this is a gift of God, and that he can neither add to it nor take from it.  The love
and the desire become greater of serving our Lord, who is so mighty that He can do that which
is more than our imagination can conceive here, as there are things which men, however learned
they may be, can never know. Blessed for ever and ever be He who bestows this!  Amen.

1. See Life, ch. xxiv. section 4.

2. See Life, ch. xxv. section 18.

3. See Life, ch. xxv. section 20, and ch. xxvii. section 1.

4. See Life, ch. xxvi. section 5.

5. Don Francisco de Soto y Salazar was a native of Bonilli de la Sierra, and Vicar-General
of the Bishops of Astorga and Avila, and Canon of Avila; Inquisitor of Cordova, Seville, and
Toledo; Bishop, successively, of Albarracin, Segorve, and Salamanca. He died at Merida, in
1576, poisoned, it was suspected, by the sect of the Illuminati, who were alarmed at his faithful
zeal and holy life (Palafox, note to letter 19, vol. i. ed. Doblado). "She went to the Inquisitor,
Don Francisco Soto de Salazar--he was afterwards Bishop of Salamanca--and said to him: 'My
lord, I am subject to certain extraordinary processes in prayer, such as ecstasies, raptures,
and revelations, and do not wish to be deluded or deceived by Satan, or to do anything that
is not absolutely safe.  I give myself up to the Inquisition to try me, and examine my ways
of going on, submitting myself to its orders.'  The Inquisitor replied: 'Senora, the business
of the Inquisition is not to try the spirit, nor to examine ways of prayer, but to correct
heretics.  Do you, then, commit your experience to writing, in all simplicity and truth, and
send it to the Father-Master Avila, who is a man of great spirituality and learning, and extremely
conversant with matters of prayer; and when you shall have his answer, you may be sure there
is nothing to be afraid of'" (Jerome Gratian, Lucidario, cap. iii.).

