§6. A check upon a bank, (Chap. XXIV, §3,) is another kind of negotiable paper. It partakes
more of the nature of a bill of exchange than of a promissory note. It is not a direct promise
to pay; but it is an undertaking, by the drawer, that the drawee shall accept and pay; and
the drawer is answerable only when the drawee fails to pay. A check payable to bearer passes
by delivery; and the bearer may sue on it as on an inland bill of exchange.

§7. When a foreign bill of exchange is to be presented for acceptance or payment, demand is
usually made by a notary public; and in case of refusal, his certificate of the presentment
of the bill and of the refusal, is legal proof of the fact in any court. This certificate is
called protest, which means, for proof. A protest may be noted on the day of the demand; though
it may be drawn up in form at a future period. Notaries are appointed in all towns and cities
of commercial importance.

§8. A protest of an inland bill of exchange is not generally deemed necessary in this country;
though it is the practice to have bills, drawn in one state on persons in another, protested
by a notary. No protest is legal evidence in court, except in the case of a foreign bill. Yet
it is expedient, in many cases of inland bills, to employ notaries when evidence is to be preserved,
because they are easily found when wanted as witnesses. In some states, bills drawn in one
state and payable in another, are deemed foreign bills; and their protest as such is required.
Notes payable at banks are also protested for non-payment.

§9. Interest is a premium paid for the use of money, or a profit per cent, received for money
lent, or on an unpaid demand. Thus a person lends $1,000 to another person, who pays for the
use of it six per cent, a year, or $6 for every hundred, as interest. The rate of interest
is fixed by a law of the state.

§10. The established lawful rates of interest in the several states are as follows: Six per
cent, in all but the following: In New-York, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, seven per cent.;
in Alabama and Texas eight per cent.; in Louisiana, five per cent.; bank interest six; in California,
ten per cent. But there may be taken by special agreement, in Florida and Louisiana, eight
per cent.; in Mississippi, Arkansas, Ohio, Missouri, Iowa, ten; in Texas and Wisconsin, twelve;
in Minnesota and California, any rate. In Illinois and Michigan, for money loaned, it may be
ten. In Mississippi, for the bona fide use of money eight per cent.

§11. A rate of interest beyond that which is established by law, is usury. Not only can no
more be collected on any contract or obligation than the legal rate, but in most of the states
there is some forfeiture for taking usurious interest. In a few, the obligation is void, and
the payment of no part of the debt can be enforced by law; in others, twice or thrice the excess
above the lawful interest is forfeited; and in some, only the excess paid can be recovered.

Chapter LXII.

Crimes and Misdemeanors.

§1. The statutes of each state define the crimes of which its laws take cognizance. The definitions
given in this chapter, agree substantially, it is presumed, with those of similar crimes in
every state in the union. The statutes also prescribe the penalties, which are not precisely
the same in all the states. Nor is there in any state an equal measure of punishment inflicted
in all cases for the same offense. The laws usually declare the longest and the shortest terms
of imprisonment, and the highest and lowest fines, leaving the exact measure of punishment,
except for crimes punishable by death, to the discretion of the judges, to be fixed according
to the aggravation of the offense.

§2. The laws of the several states differ in respect to the number of crimes made punishable
by death. In some states the penalty of death is annexed to the crime of murder only. Treason
is punishable by death; but as this offense is defined and made punishable by the laws of the
United States, not all the states take cognizance of it. If committed in such states, it is
tried in the courts of the United States. In New York, murder, treason, and arson in the first
degree, are punishable by death. Few states make more than these crimes thus punishable. In
two or three states, the penalty of death has been abolished, and imprisonment for life substituted.

§3. Crimes punishable by death, are called capital crimes, and their punishment is called capital
punishment. The word capital is from the Latin caput, which means head; and so has come to
signify the highest or principal. Hence, probably, the application of the word capital to the
principal crimes receiving the highest punishment, which was formerly practiced extensively
in other countries by beheading or decapitating the criminals.

§4. Treason is defined by statute to be, levying war in any state against the people of the
state; or a combination of two or more persons, attempting by force to usurp or overturn the
government of the state; or in adhering to enemies of the state while separately engaged in
war with a foreign enemy, and giving them aid and comfort.

§5. Murder is the killing of a person deliberately and maliciously, and with intent to effect
death; or killing a person in committing some other crime, though not with a design to effect
death; or in killing a person purposely and without previous deliberation. The less aggravated
cases of murder, are in some states distinguished as murder in the second degree, and punished
by imprisonment for a long term, or for life.

§6. Manslaughter is killing a person either upon a sudden quarrel, or unintentionally while
committing some unlawful act. The statutes of New York define four different degrees of manslaughter.

§7. Arson is maliciously burning any dwelling-house, shop, barn, or any other building, the
property of another. Arson in the first degree, which is burning an inhabited dwelling in the
night time, is in some states punishable with death.

§8. Homicide signifies mankilling. It is of three kinds: felonious, justifiable, and excusable.
When felonious, it is either murder or manslaughter. Justifiable homicide is that which is
committed in the necessary defense of one's person, house, or goods, or of the person of another
when in danger of injury; or that which is committed in lawfully attempting to take a person
for felony committed, or to suppress a riot, or to keep the peace. Excusable homicide is the
killing of a person by accident, or while lawfully employed, without any design to do wrong.
In the two last cases there is no punishment.

§9. Intentionally maiming another by cutting out or disabling the tongue or any other member
or limb; inveigling or kidnapping; decoying and taking away children; exposing children in
the street to abandon them; committing or attempting an assault with intent to kill, or to
commit any other felony, or in resisting the execution of a legal process; administering poison
without producing death; poisoning any well or spring of water; are all felonies, and punishable
as such.

§10. Burglary is maliciously and forcibly breaking into and entering in the night time, any
dwelling-house or other building, with intent to commit a crime. Breaking into and entering
a house by day, is considered a minor degree of burglary.

§11. Forgery consists in falsely making, counterfeiting, or altering any instrument of writing,
with intent to defraud. The word counterfeiting is generally applied to making false coin or
bank notes, or in passing them; or in having in possession any engraved plate, or bills unsigned,
which are intended to be used for these purposes.

§12. Robbery is the taking of personal property from another in his presence and against his
will, by violence, or by putting him in fear of immediate injury to his person. Knowingly to
send or deliver, or to make for the purpose of being sent, a letter or writing, threatening
to accuse any one of crime, or to do him some injury, with intent to extort or gain from him
any money or property, is considered an attempt to rob, for which the offender may be imprisoned.

§13. Embezzlement is fraudulently putting to one's own use what is intrusted to him by another.
To buy or receive property knowing it to have been embezzled, is to be guilty of the same offense.
Embezzling is usually punishable in the same manner as larceny of the same amount.

§14. Larceny is theft or stealing. The stealing of property above a certain amount in value
is called grand larceny, and is a state prison offense. If the value of the property stolen
is of less amount, the offense is called petit larceny, and is punished by fine or imprisonment
in jail or both.

§15. Perjury is willfully swearing or affirming falsely to any material matter, upon an oath
legally administered. Subornation of perjury is procuring another to swear falsely; punishable
as perjury.

§16. Bribery is promising or giving a reward to a public officer, to influence his opinion,
vote or judgment. A person accepting such bribe, is punishable in the same manner, and forfeits
his office, and, in some states, may never hold another public trust. This offense is not in
all the states punishable by imprisonment in the state prison.

§17. Dueling is a combat between two persons with deadly weapons. Killing another in a duel
is murder, and punishable with death. If death does not ensue, imprisonment. Challenging, or
accepting a challenge to fight, or to be present as a second, imprisonment. Dueling is not
a punishable offense in every state.

§18. Aiding or attempting to aid a prisoner committed for felony, to escape from confinement,
or forcibly rescuing a prisoner charged with crime, from the custody of a public officer, is
a crime. If the offense for which the prisoner is committed is less than felony, the punishment
is imprisonment in jail, or fine, or both.

§19. Bigamy is the crime of having two or more wives, and is also called polygamy. But bigamy
literally signifies having two wives, and polygamy any number more than one. These words, in
law, are applied also to women having two or more husbands. A person having a lawful husband
or wife living, and marrying another person, is guilty of bigamy. An unmarried person, also,
who shall marry the husband or wife of another, is punishable in like manner.

§20. Incest is the marrying or cohabiting together as husband and wife, of persons related
to each other within certain degrees.

§21. Opening a grave and removing a dead body for any unlawful purpose, or purchasing such
body knowing it to have been unlawfully disinterred, is a crime. This offense is in some states
punishable by imprisonment in a county jail, or by fine, and not in a state prison.

§22. Persons sometimes advise or are knowing to the commission of felonies, but are not actually
engaged in committing them. Such are accessories. He who advises or commands another to commit
a felony, is called an accessory before the fact, and is punished in the same manner as the
principal. If he conceals the offender after the offense has been committed, or gives him any
aid to prevent his being brought to punishment, he is an accessory after the fact, and may
be imprisoned or fined.

§23. Assault and Battery is unlawfully to assault or threaten, or to strike or wound another.
Besides being liable to fine and imprisonment, the offender is liable also to the party injured
for damages.

§24. A riot is the assembling together of three or more persons, with intent forcibly to injure
the person or property of another, or to break the peace; or agreeing with each other to do
such unlawful act, and making any movement or preparation therefor, though lawfully assembled.
When riotous persons are thus assembled, and are proceeding to commit offenses, any judge,
justice, sheriff, or other ministerial officer, may in the name of the state, command them
to disperse. If they refuse, the peace officers are required to call upon all persons near
to aid in taking the rioters into custody. Persons refusing to assist may be fined.

§25. A sheriff or other officer voluntarily suffering a prisoner charged with or convicted
of an offense, to escape, from his custody, is guilty of a misdemeanor. To rescue a prisoner
thus charged or convicted, is punishable in a similar manner. It is also a misdemeanor to assist
a criminal, with a view to effect his escape, though he does not escape from jail.

§26. A person taking upon himself to act as a public officer, and taking or keeping a person
in custody unlawfully or without authority, is false imprisonment; for which the offender may
be fined or imprisoned.

§27. The offenses mentioned in the last four sections, being of a lower grade than those defined
in the preceding sections, and not being punishable in a state prison, are usually called misdemeanors,
and are punishable by fine or imprisonment in a county jail. There are numerous other misdemeanors
and immoralities, as profane cursing and swearing, betting and gaming, horse racing, disturbing
religious meetings, sabbath-breaking, trespasses and injury to property, and many disorderly
practices, all of which are punishable in a like manner.

§1. The law of nations consists of those rules by which intercourse between nations is regulated.
In its present improved state, the law of nations has not long existed. Ancient nations were
little governed by the principles of natural justice. Little respect was paid by one nation
to the persons and property of the citizens of another. Robbery on land and sea was not only
tolerated, but esteemed honorable; and prisoners of war were either put to death, or reduced
to slavery. By this rule of national law, commerce was destroyed, and perpetual enmity kept
up between nations.

§2. Within the last three or four centuries, essential improvement in the law of nations has
been made. By the light of science and Christianity, the rights and obligations of nations
have come to be better understood, and more generally regarded. Commerce also has done much
to improve the law, by showing that the true interests of a nation are promoted by peace and
friendly intercourse.

§3. Hence we find the nations of Europe and America recognizing the same rules of international
law. And as the light and power of Christianity shall increase, the law of nations will undergo
still further improvements. And it is to be hoped, that, as one of these improvements, the
practice of settling national disputes by war will be abolished, and the more rational and
humane course be adopted, of referring difficulties which the parties are incapable of adjusting,
to some disinterested power for adjudication.

§4. There are, in every nation or state, courts of justice to try and punish offenders; but
there is no tribunal before which one nation can be brought to answer for the violation of
the rights of another. Every nation, however small and weak, is independent of every other.
Therefore, when injuries are committed by one upon another, the offended party, unless it chooses
quietly to endure the wrong must seek redress, either by appealing to the sense of justice
of the party offending, or by a resort to force.

§5. Every nation has a right to establish such government as it thinks proper; and no other
nation has a right to interfere with its internal policy. To this rule, however, some writers
make an exception. They hold that the natural right of a state to provide for its own safety,
gives it the right to interfere where its security is seriously endangered by the internal
transactions of another state. But it is admitted that such cases are so very rare, that it
would be dangerous to reduce them to a rule.

§6. So cases seldom arise in which one nation has a right to assist the subjects of another
in overturning or changing their government. It is generally agreed, that such assistance may
be afforded consistently with the law of nations, in extreme cases; as when the tyranny of
a government becomes so oppressive, as to compel the people to rise in their defense, and call
for assistance. When the subjects of any government have carried their revolt so far as to
have established a new state, and to give reasonable evidence of their ability to maintain
a government, the right of assistance is unquestionable. But it is not clear that, prior to
this state of progress in a revolution, the right to interpose would be justifiable.

§7. There is a sense, however, in which nations are not wholly independent. Mankind in the
social state, as we have seen, are dependent upon each other for assistance. (Chap. I, §2.)
Such is, in a measure, the mutual dependence of nations. Although the people of every nation
have within themselves the means of maintaining their individual and national existence, their
prosperity and happiness are greatly promoted by commerce with other nations. And as laws are
necessary to govern the conduct of the individual citizens of a state, so certain rules are
necessary to regulate the intercourse of nations.

§8. It has been observed, also, that the law of nature is a perfect rule for all moral and
social beings, and ought to be universally obeyed. Equally binding is this law upon nations.
It requires each nation to respect the rights of all others, and to do for them what their
necessities demand, and what it is capable of doing, consistently with the duties it owes to
itself. And the general good of mankind is as really promoted by the application of this law
to the affairs of nations, as by its application to the affairs of individuals.

§9. The law of nature applied to nations or states as moral persons, is called the natural
law of nations. It is also called the necessary law of nations, because nations are morally
bound to observe it; and sometimes the internal law of nations, from its being binding on the
conscience.

§10. Although the law of nature, as expressed in the law of revelation, is a correct rule of
human conduct; yet, as much of this law consists of general principles from which particular
duties can not always be deduced, positive human enactments are necessary to define the law
of nature and revelation. So an important part of the law of nations necessarily consists of
positive institutions. Hence some writers have divided international law under these two principal
heads: the natural law of nations, and the positive.

§11. The positive law of nations is founded on usage or custom and agreement, and may be considered
as properly divided into the customary law of nations, and the conventional. The customary
law of nations consists of certain maxims, or is founded on customs and usages which have been
long observed and tacitly consented to by nations, and have thereby become binding upon all
who have adopted them, so far as their observance does not require a violation of the law of
nature.

§12. A conventional law of nations is one that has been established by a treaty or league.
The word convention usually signifies an assembly of persons met for some benevolent, political,
or ecclesiastical purpose. It also signifies a treaty, or agreement between nations; and such
agreement or contract, though made without a formal meeting, is deemed conventional.

§13. As the law of nature is liable to misconstruction, and as the law of usage or custom is
vague and uncertain, conventional law, because more definite, has been found to afford greater
security to the rights of commerce. Hence the practice, now so common among nations, of regulating
their intercourse by negotiation. By treaties, the rights of the contracting parties are placed
beyond dispute.

§14. But it may be said, if each nation is independent of every other, and if there is no constituted
authority to enforce the fulfillment of treaty stipulations, the rights guarantied by treaties
are still insecure. But few governments are so devoid of a sense of honor as, by a palpable
violation of treaty obligations, to incur the odium and condemnation of all mankind. Self-respect
and the fear of provoking a war, have generally proved sufficient incentives to the observance
of treaties.

§15. The obligations of nations are sometimes called imperfect. A perfect obligation is one
that can be enforced--one that exists where there is a right to compel the party on whom the
obligation rests to fulfill it. An imperfect obligation gives only the right to demand the
fulfillment, leaving the party pledged to judge what his duty requires, and to do as he chooses,
without being constrained by another to do otherwise. The seas are regarded as the common highway
of nations. The main ocean, for navigation and fishing, is open to all mankind. Every state,
however, has jurisdiction at sea over its own subjects in its own public and private vessels.
The persons on board such vessels are protected and governed by the laws of the country to
which they belong, and may be punished by these laws for offenses committed on board of its
public vessels in foreign ports.

§2. The question how far a nation has jurisdiction over the seas adjoining its lands, is not
clearly settled. It appears to be generally conceded, that a nation has a right of exclusive
dominion over navigable rivers flowing through its territory; the harbors, bays, gulfs, and
arms of the sea; and such extent of sea adjoining its territories as is necessary to the safety
of the nation, which is considered by some to be as far as a cannon shot will reach, or about
a marine league.

§3. It is the duty of a nation in time of peace, to allow the people of other states a passage
over its lands and waters, so far as it can be permitted without inconvenience, and with safety
to its own citizens. Of this the nation is to be its own judge. The right of passage is only
an imperfect right, because the obligation to grant the right is an imperfect obligation. (Chap.
LXIII, §15.)

§4. In general, it is the duty of a nation to allow foreigners to enter and settle in the country.
On being admitted into a state, the state becomes pledged for their protection, and they become
subject to its laws; and in consideration of the protection they receive, they are obliged
to aid in defending it, and in supporting its government, even before they are admitted to
all the rights of citizens.

§5. But no state is bound to shelter criminals fleeing into it from a foreign state. They can
be tried only in the state whose laws they have violated. It is therefore the duty of the government
to surrender a fugitive on demand of the proper authorities of the state from which he fled,
if, after due examination by a civil magistrate, there shall appear sufficient grounds for
the charge. The surrender of criminals is sometimes provided for in treaties.

§6. The rule which makes foreigners amenable to the laws of the state in which they remove,
does not apply to embassadors. They are not responsible to the laws of the country to which
they are sent, even when guilty of crime. When their conduct is dangerous to the government
and its citizens, all that can be done is, either to deprive them of liberty by confinement,
or to send them home and demand their punishment. As every nation has a right to treat and
communicate with all others, it ought not to be deprived of the services of its representative.
Hence, the persons and property of all public ministers are held sacred and inviolable.

§7. Embassadors are entitled to the same protection in the countries through which they pass
in going to, and returning from the government to which they are sent. And to insure them a
safe passage, some governments have given them passports to be shown if required. A passport
is a written license from the authority of a state granting permission or safe conduct for
one to pass through its territory. Passports, though named in our law, are not known in practice,
being deemed unnecessary.

§8. If a minister at a foreign court treats the sovereign with disrespect, the fact is sometimes
communicated to the government that sent him, with a request for his recall. Or, if the offense
is a more serious one, the offended sovereign refuses intercourse with him while his master's
answer is awaited. Or, if the case is an aggravated one, he expels him from the country.

§9. Ministers at foreign governments, in their negotiations or business correspondence with
those governments, sometimes consider themselves ill treated, and their own nation dishonored,
and take their leave and return home; or the minister informs his sovereign, who either recalls
him, or takes such other measure as he thinks the honor and interest of his nation demand.

§10. The peculiar condition of a country, the nature of the business upon which an embassador
is sent, or the personal character of the embassador, may be such as to justify a government
in refusing to receive him. But to preserve the friendly relations of the two countries, satisfactory
explanations ought to be made, or good reasons offered for the refusal.

§11. A minister can not bind his sovereign to any treaty or agreement, conclusively, under
the authority of an ordinary credential, or letter of attorney. He can not do so without a
special power, containing express authority so to bind his principal. Ministers act under secret
instructions which they are not bound to disclose. Even the treaties signed by plenipotentiaries,
(a word signifying full power,) are, according to present usage, of no force, until ratified
by their governments.

§12. Consuls are not entitled to the privilege enjoyed by ministers, but are subject to the
laws of the country in which they reside. Their principal duties have been described. (Chap.
XL, §9.) The office of consul has been found to be one of great utility; hence, every trading
nation has a consul in every considerable commercial port in the world. As in the case of ministers,
consuls carry a certificate of their appointment, and must be acknowledged as consuls by the
government of the country in which they reside, before they can perform any duties pertaining
to their office.

Chapter LXV.

Offensive and Defensive War; just Causes and Objects of War; Reprisals; Alliances in War.

§1. Wars are offensive and defensive. The use of force to obtain justice for injuries done,
is offensive war. The making use of force against any power that attacks a nation or its privileges,
is defensive war. A war may be defensive in its principles, though offensive in its operation.
For example: one nation is preparing to invade another; but before the threatened invasion
takes place, the latter attacks the former as the best mode of repelling the invasion. In this
case, the party making the attack acts on the defensive. (§10.) The contending parties are
called belligerents. The word belligerent is from the Latin bellum, war, and gero, to wage
or carry on. Nations that take no part in the contest, are called neutrals.

§2. War ought never to be undertaken without the most cogent reasons. In the first place, there
must be a right to make war, and just grounds for making it. Nations have no right to employ
force any further than is necessary for their own defense, and for the maintenance of their
rights. Secondly, it should be made from proper motives, the good of the state, and the safety
and common advantage of the citizens. Hence, there may be, according to the law of nations,
just cause of war, when it would be inexpedient to involve the nation in such a calamity.

§3. The numerous objects of a lawful war may be reduced to these three: (1.) To recover what
belongs to us, or to obtain satisfaction for injuries. (2.) To provide for our future safety
by punishing the offender. (3.) To defend or protect ourselves from injury by repelling unjust
attacks. The first and second are objects of an offensive war; the third is that of a defensive
war.

§4. Injury to an individual citizen of a state, by the subjects of another state, is deemed
a just cause of war, if the persons offending, or the government of the state to which they
belong, do not make reparation for the injury; for every nation is responsible for the good
behavior of its subjects. But, although this would, according to the law of nations, afford
justifiable cause of war, neither the honor nor the true interest of a nation requires that
war should always be made for so slight a cause.

§5. Generally, the injury sought to be redressed should be serious, and satisfaction be demanded
and refused, before recourse should be had to arms. Where there is a question of right between
the parties, the government making war should have no reasonable doubt of the justice of its
claim. And even when no such doubt exists, it would be the duty of such government to prevent
a war, if possible, by proposals of compromise. It is believed that war ought in no case to
be made, until attempts have been made to effect an adjustment of difficulties by compromise,
or by offers to submit them for arbitration.

§6. One of the means by which satisfaction is sought without making war, is that of reprisals.
(Chap. XXXVI, §4, 5.) If a nation has taken what belongs to another, or refuses to pay a debt,
or to make satisfaction for an injury, the offended nation seizes something belonging to the
former or to her citizens, and retains it, or applies it to her own advantage, till she obtains
satisfaction: and when there shall be no longer any hope of satisfaction, the effects thus
seized are confiscated. To confiscate is to adjudge property to be forfeited, and to appropriate
it to the use and benefit of the state. But as the loss in this case would fall upon unoffending
citizens, it is the duty of their government to grant them indemnity.

§7. But to justify reprisals by the law of nations, the grounds upon which they are authorized
must be just and well ascertained. If the right of the party demanding satisfaction is doubtful,
he must first demand an equitable examination of his claim, and next be able to show that justice
has been refused, before he can justly take the matter into his own hands. He has no right
to disturb the peace and safety of nations on a doubtful pretension. But if the other party
refuses to have the matter brought to the proof, or to accede to any proposition to terminate
the dispute in a peaceable manner, reprisals become lawful.

