"I declare, Lucy," said Mollie Ainslie that evening, to her co-worker, over their cosy tea,
"I don't believe I shall ever get to understand these people. There is that Eliab Hill, who
was getting along so nicely, has concluded  to give up his studies. I believe he is half crazy
anyhow. He raved about it, and glared at me so that I was half frightened out of my wits. I
wonder why it is that cripples are always so queer, anyhow?"

She would have been still more amazed if she had known that from that day Eliab Hill devoted
himself to his studies with a redoubled energy, which more than made up for the loss of his
teacher's aid. Had she herself  been less a child she would have seen that he whom she had
treated as such was, in truth, a man of rare strength.

CHAPTER XXII.

HOW THE FALLOW WAS SEEDED.

The time had come when the influences so long at work, the seed which the past had sown in
the minds and hearts of races, must at length bear fruit. The period of actual reconstruction
had passed, and independent, self-regulating States had taken the place of Military Districts
and Provisional Governments. The people of the South began, little by little, to realize that
they held their future in their own hands--that the supervising and restraining power of the
General Government had been withdrawn. The colored race, yet dazed with the new light of liberty,
were divided between exultation and fear. They were like a child taking his first steps--full
of joy at the last accomplished, full of terror at the one which was before.

The state of mind of the Southern white man, with reference to the freedman and his exaltation
to the privilege  of citizenship is one which cannot be too frequently  analyzed or too closely
kept in mind by one who desires fully to apprehend the events which have since occurred, and
the social and political structure of the South at this time.

As a rule, the Southern man had been a kind master to his slaves. Conscious cruelty was the
exception.  The real evils of the system were those which arose from its un-conscious barbarism--the
natural and inevitable results of holding human beings as chattels, without right, the power
of self-defence or protestation--dumb driven brutes, deprived of all volition or hope, subservient
to another's will, and bereft of every motive for self-improvement as well as every opportunity
to rise. The effect of this upon the dominant race was to fix in their minds, with the strength
of an absorbing passion, the idea of their own innate and unimpeachable superiority, of the
unalterable inferiority of the slave-race, of the infinite distance between the two, and of
the depth of  debasement implied by placing the two races, in any respect,  on the same level.
The Southern mind had no antipathy  to the negro in a menial or servile relation. On the contrary,
it was generally kind and considerate of him, as such. It regarded him almost precisely as
other people look upon other species of animate property,  except that it conceded to him the
possession of human passions, appetites, and motives. As a farmer likes to turn a favorite
horse into a fine pasture, watch his antics, and see him roll and feed and run; as he pats
and caresses him when he takes him out, and delights himself in the enjoyment of the faithful
beast--just so the slave-owner took pleasure in the slave's comfort, looked with approval upon
his enjoyment of the domestic relation, and desired to see him sleek and hearty, and physically
well content.

It was only as a man that the white regarded the black with aversion; and, in that point of
view, the antipathy was all the more intensely bitter since he considered the claim to manhood
an intrusion upon the sacred and exclusive  rights of his own race. This feeling was greatly
strengthened by the course of legislation and legal construction, both national and State.
Many of the subtlest exertions of American intellect were those which traced and defined the
line of demarcation, until there was built up between the races, considered as men, a wall
of separation as high as heaven and as deep as hell.

It may not be amiss to cite some few examples of this, which will serve at once to illustrate
the feeling itself, and to show the steps in its progress.

1. It was held by our highest judicial tribunal that the phrase "we the people," in the Declaration
of Independence,  did not include slaves, who were excluded from the inherent rights recited
therein and accounted divine and inalienable, embracing, of course, the right of self-government,
which rested on the others as substantial premises.

2. The right or privilege, whichever it may be, of intermarriage with the dominant race was
prohibited to the African in all the States, both free and slave, and, for all legal purposes,
that man was accounted "colored" who had one-sixteenth of African blood.

3. The common-law right of self-defence was gradually  reduced by legal subtlety, in the slave
States, until only the merest shred remained to the African, while the lightest word of disobedience
or gesture of disrespect  from him, justified an assault on the part of the white man.

4. Early in the present century it was made a crime in all the States of the South to teach
a slave to read, the free blacks were disfranchised, and the most stringent restraining statutes
extended over them, including  the prohibition of public assembly, even for divine worship,
unless a white man were present.

5. Emancipation was not allowed except by decree of a court of record after tedious formality
and the assumption  of onerous responsibilities on the part of the master;  and it was absolutely
forbidden to be done by testament.

6. As indicative of the fact that this antipathy was directed  against the colored man as a
free agent, a man, solely, may be cited the well-known fact of the enormous  admixture of the
races by illicit commerce at the South, and the further fact that this was, in very large measure,
consequent upon the conduct of the most refined and cultivated elements of Southern life. As
a thing, an animal, a mere existence, or as the servant of his desire and instrument of his
advancement, the Southern Caucasian had no antipathy to the colored race. As one to serve,
to nurse, to minister to his will and pleasure, he appreciated and approved of the African
to the utmost extent.

7. Every exercise of manly right, sentiment, or inclination,  on the part of the negro, was
rigorously repressed.  To attempt to escape was a capital crime if repeated once or twice;
to urge others to escape was also capitally  punishable; to learn to read, to claim the rights
of property, to speak insolently, to meet for prayer without the sanction of the white man's
presence, were all offences against the law; and in this case, as in most others, the law was
an index as well as the source of a public sentiment, which grew step by step with its progress
in unconscious barbarity.

8. Perhaps the best possible indication of the force of this sentiment, in its ripened and
intensest state, is afforded by the course of the Confederate Government in regard to the proposal
that it should arm the slaves.  In the very crisis of the struggle, when the passions of the
combatants were at fever heat, this proposition was made. There was no serious question as
to the efficiency  or faithfulness of the slaves. The masters did not doubt that, if armed,
with the promise of freedom extended to them, they would prove most effective allies, and would
secure to the Confederacy that autonomy  which few thoughtful men at that time believed it
possible to achieve by any other means. Such was the intensity of this sentiment, however,
that it was admitted to be impossible to hold the Southern soldiery  in the field should this
measure be adopted.  So that the Confederacy, rather than surrender a tithe of its prejudice
against the negro as a man, rather than owe its life to him, serving in the capacity of a soldier,
chose to suffer defeat and overthrow. The African might raise the food, build the breastworks,
and do aught of menial service or mere manual labor required for the support of the Confederacy,
without objection or demurrer on the part of any; but they would rather surrender all that
they had fought so long and so bravely to secure, rather than admit, even by inference,  his
equal manhood or his fitness for the duty and the danger of a soldier's life. It was a grand
stubborness, a magnificent adherence to an adopted and declared principle, which loses nothing
of its grandeur from the fact that we may believe the principle  to have been erroneous.

9. Another very striking and peculiar illustration of this sentiment is the fact that one of
the most earnest advocates of the abolition of slavery, and a type of its Southern opponents,
the author of "The Impending  Crisis"--a book which did more than any other to crystallize
and confirm the sentiment awakened at the North by "Uncle Tom's Cabin"--was perhaps more bitterly
averse to the freedom, citizenship, and coexistence of the African with the Caucasian than
any man that has ever written on the subject. He differed from his slaveholding neighbors only
in this: they approved the African as a menial, but abominated him as a self-controlling man;
he abhorred him in both relations. With them, the prejudice of race made the negro hateful
only when he trenched on the sacred domain of their superior and self-controlling manhood;
with him, hatred of the race overleaped the conventional relation and included the African
wherever found, however employed, or in whatsoever relation considered. His horror of the black
far overtopped his ancient antipathy to the slave. The fact that he is an exception, and that
the extravagant rhodomontades of "Nojoque" are neither indorsed nor believed  by any considerable
number of the Southern people, confirms most powerfully this analysis of their temper toward
the African.

10. Still another signal instance of its accuracy is the striking fact that one of the hottest
political struggles since the war arose out of the proposition to give the colored man the
right to testify, in courts of justice, against a white man. The objection was not bottomed
on any desire to deprive the colored man of his legal rights, but had its root in the idea
that it would be a degradation of the white man to allow the colored man to take the witness-stand
and traverse the oath of a Caucasian.

Now, as it relates to our story:--That this most intense and vital sentiment should find expression
whenever the repressive power of the conquering people was removed was most natural; that it
would be fanned into a white heat by the freedman's enfranchisement was beyond cavil; and that
Red Wing should escape such manifestations of the general abhorrence of the work of development
there going on was not to be expected, even by its most sanguine friend.

Although the conduct of the teachers at Red Wing had been such as to awaken the respect of
all, yet there were two things which made the place peculiarly  odious. One was the influence
of Eliab Hill with his people in all parts of the county, which had very greatly increased
since he had ceased to be a pupil, in appearance, and had betaken himself more than ever to
solitude and study. The other was the continued  prosperity and rugged independence of Nimbus,
who was regarded as a peculiarly "sassy nigger." To the malign influence of these two was attributed
every difference of opinion between employer and employee, and every impropriety of conduct
on the part of the freedmen of Horsford. Eliab was regarded as a wicked spirit who devised
evil continually, and Nimbus as his willing familiar, who executed his purpose with ceaseless
diligence. So Red Wing was looked upon with distrust, and its two leading characters, unconsciously
to themselves,  became marked men, upon whom rested the suspicion  and aversion of a whole
community.

CHAPTER XXIII.

AN OFFERING OF FIRST-FRUITS.

An election was impending for members of the Legislature,  and there was great excitement in
the county of Horsford. Of white Republicans there were not above a half dozen who were openly
known as such. There were two or three others who were regarded with some suspicion by their
neighbors, among whom was Hesden Le Moyne. Since he had acted as a judge of election at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution, he had never been heard to express any opinion upon
political matters. He was known to have voted for that Constitution,  and when questioned as
to his reasons for such a course, had arrogantly answered,

"Simply because I saw fit to do so."

His interrogator had not seen fit to inquire further.  Hesden Le Moyne was not a man with whom
one wished to provoke a controversy. His unwillingness to submit to be catechised was generally
accepted as a proof positive of his "Radical" views. He had been an adviser of Nimbus, his
colored playmate, in the purchase of the Red Wing property, his interest in Eliab Hill had
not slackened since that worthy cast in his lot with Nimbus, and he did not hesitate to commend
the work of the school.    He had several times attended the examinations there, had become
known to the teachers, and took an active interest in the movement there going on. What his
personal views were in regard to the very peculiar state of affairs by which he was surrounded
he had never found it necessary to declare. He attended quietly to the work of his plantation,
tenderly cared for his invalid mother, and watched the growth of his little son with the seemingly
settled conviction that his care was due to them rather than to the public. His counsel and
assistance were still freely sought in private matters by the inhabitants  of the little village
of Red Wing, and neither was ever refused where he saw that it might do good. He was accounted
by them a friend, but not a partisan, and none of them had ever discussed any political questions
with him, except Eliab Hill, who had more than once talked with him upon the important problem
of the future of that race to which the unfortunate cripple was so slightly akin and yet so
closely allied.

There was a large majority of colored men in the county, and one of the candidates for the
Legislature was a colored man. While elections were under the military control there had been
no serious attempt to overcome this majority, but now it was decided that the county should
be "redeemed," which is the favorite name in that section of the country for an unlawful subversion
of a majority. So the battle was joined, and the conflict waged hot and fierce. That negroes--no
matter how numerous they might be--should rule, should bear sway and control in the county
of Horsford,  was a thought not by any means to be endured.  It was a blow on every white cheek--an
insult to every Caucasian heart. Men cursed wildly when they thought of it. Women taunted them
with cowardice for permitting it. It was the one controlling and consuming thought of the hour.

On the other hand, the colored people felt that it was necessary for them to assert their newly-acquired
rights if they expected to retain them. So that both parties were influenced by the strongest
considerations which could possibly affect their action.

Red Wing was one of the points around which this contest raged the hottest. Although it had
never become a polling precinct, and was a place of no mercantile importance, it was yet the
center from which radiated the spirit that animated the colored men of the most populous  district
in the county. It was their place of meeting  and conference. Accustomed to regard their race
as peculiarly dependent upon the Divine aid because of the lowly position they had so long
occupied, they had become habituated to associate political and religious interests. The helplessness
of servitude left no room for hope except through the trustfulness of faith. The generation
which saw slavery swept away, and they who have heard the tale of deliverance from the lips
of those who had been slaves, will never cease to trace the hand of God visibly manifested
in the events culminating in liberty, or to regard the future of the freed race as under the
direct control of the Divine Being. For this reason the political and religious interests and
emotions of this people are quite inseparable. Wherever they meet to worship,  there they will
meet to consult of their plans, hopes, and progress, as at once a distinct race and a part
of the American people. Their religion is tinged with political thought, and their political
thought shaped by religious conviction.

In this respect the colored race in America are the true children of the Covenanters and the
Puritans. Their faith is of the same unquestioning type, which no disappointment  or delay
can daunt, and their view of personal duty and obligation in regard to it is not less intense
than that which led men to sing psalms and utter praises on board the storm-bound "Mayflower."
The most English of all English attributes has, by a strange transmutation, become the leading
element in the character of the Africo-American. The same mixed motive of religious duty toward
posterity and devotion to political liberty which peopled the bleak hills of New England and
the fertile lands of Canaan with peoples fleeing from bondage and oppression, may yet cover
the North with dusky fugitives from the spirit and the situs of slavery.

From time to time there had been political meetings held at the church or school-house, composed
mainly of colored men, though now and then a little knot of white men would come in and watch
their proceedings, sometimes from curiosity, and sometimes from spleen. Heretofore, however,
there had been no more serious interruption than some sneering remarks and derisive laughter.
The colored  men felt that it was their own domain, and showed much more boldness than they
would ever manifest on other occasions. During this campaign, however, it was determined to
have a grand rally, speeches, and a barbecue  at Red Wing. The colored inhabitants of that
section were put upon their mettle. Several sheep and pigs were roasted, rude tables were spread
under the trees, and all arrangements made for a great occasion.

At an early hour of the day when it was announced  that the meeting would be held, groups of
colored people of all ages and both sexes began to assemble. They were all talking earnestly
as they came, for some matter of unusual interest seemed to have usurped for the moment  their
accustomed lightness and jollity of demeanor. Nimbus, as the most prosperous and substantial
colored  man of the region, had always maintained a decided leadership among them, all the
more from the fact that he had sought thereby to obtain no advantage for himself. Though a
most ardent supporter of that party with which he deemed the interests of his race inseparably
allied, he had never taken a very active part in politics, and had persistently refused to
be put forward for any official position, although frequently urged to allow himself to be
named a candidate.

"No," he would always say; "I hain't got no larnin' an' not much sense. Besides, I'se got all
I kin manage, an' more too, a-takin' keer o' dis yer farm. Dat's what I'm good fer. I kin manage
terbacker, an' I'd ruther hev a good plantation an' run it myself, than all the offices in
the worl'. I'se jes fit fer dat, an' I ain't fit fer nuffin' else."

His success proved the justice of his estimate, and the more he prospered the stronger was
his hold upon his people. Of course, there were some who envied him his good-fortune, but such
was his good-nature and readiness  to render all the assistance in his power that this dangerous
leaven did not spread. "Bre'er Nimbus" was still the heart and life of the community which
had its center at Red Wing. His impetuosity was well tempered by the subtle caution of Eliab
Hill, without whose advice  he seldom acted in any important matter.

The relations between these two men had continued singularly close, although of late Eliab
had been more independent of his friend's assistance than formerly; for, at the suggestion
of the teachers, his parishioners  had contributed little sums--a dime, a quarter, and a few
a half-dollar apiece--to get him one of those wheeled chairs which are worked by the hands,
and by means of which the infirm are frequently enabled to move about without other aid. It
was the first time they had ever given anything to a minister of their own, and it was hard
for those who had to support families upon a pittance which in other parts of the country would
mean starvation; yet so many had hastened to give, that the "go-cart," as it was generally
called, proved a vehicle of marvelous luxury and finish to the unaccustomed eyes of these rude
children of the plantation.

In this chair Eliab was able to transport himself to and from the school-room, and even considerable
distances among his people. This had brought him into nearer relations with them, and it was
largely owing to his influence that, after Northern benevolence began to restrict its gifts
and to condition its benevolence upon the exercise of a self-help which should provide for
a moiety of the expense, the school still continued full and prosperous, and the services of
Miss Ainslie were retained  for another year--the last she intended to give to the missionary
work which accident had thrust upon her young life. Already her heart was pining for the brightness
and kindly cheer of the green-clad hills from which she had been exiled so long, and the friends
whose hearts and arms would welcome her again to her childhood's home.

