The Drawings come last, and are divided into seven Porta Folios, containing respectively 21,
23, 30, 23, 24, 26 and 42 specimens. In the first two no names of the masters are given: in
the third, they are all assigned to various artists, including Emskirk (I spell names as I
find them), Paulo Veronesa, Raphael, Leonardo da Vinci, Tintorett, Giulio Romano, &c. The fourth
portfolio has only one name to the 23 lots, viz. Tintorett; and Filippo Bellin is the only
master named in the fifth portfolio. In the sixth, we meet with Tintorett, Perugino, Mich.
Ang. Bonaroti, Annibal Caracci, Paulo Brill, and Raphael. Of the 42 drawings in Portfolio 7.
all have names annexed to them, excepting eight; and here we read those of Guido Reni, Gio
Bellini, Andrea Mantegna, Corregio, Andrea del Sarto, Tadeo Zuccaro, &c.

I may have gone into more detail than was necessary; but, besides the Queries I have already
put, I want to know if any of these gems, cameos, antiques, or drawings are now known to be
in existence; and, if possible, where they are to be found.

A CURIOSITY HUNTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Quotations wanted.--I shall be greatly obliged to any of the correspondents of your most interesting
and useful publication who will kindly inform me in what authors the following passages are
to be found, and will, if it can be done without too much trouble, give me the references necessary
for tracing them:--

 "Par un peu de sang bien répandu,
  L'on en épargne beaucoup."

And

 "Quadrijugis invectus equis Sol aureus extat,
  Cui septem veriis circumdant vestibus Horæ:
  Lucifer antesolat: rapidi fuge lampada Solis,
  Aurora, umbrarum victrix, neo victa recedas."

The latter I have only seen subjoined to a print of Guido's celebrated Aurora, at Rome; and
I should have supposed it might have been written for the occasion, had I not been told, upon
authority in which I put confidence, that it is to be found in some classic author. If so,
the lines may possibly have given rise to the painting, and not the painting to the lines.

DAWSON TURNER.

Yarmouth, October 28. 1850.

Avidius Varus.--Can you, or any of your readers, tell me who Avidius Varus was, referred to
in the following passage:

 "Sed Avidii Vari illud hic valeat:
   'Aut hoc quod produxi testium satis est, aut nihil satis.'"

I find reference made to him as above, in one of the Smith manuscripts; but I cannot discover
his name in any catalogue or biographical dictionary. Is he known by any other name?

J. SANSOM.

Death of Richard II.--By what authority has the belief that Richard II. died in Pontefract
Castle, in Yorkshire, arisen? Every history that I have consulted (with the exception, indeed,
of Lord Lyttleton's) coolly assumes it as a fact, in the teeth of the contemporary Froissart,
who says plainly enough--

    "Thus they left the Tower of London where he had died, and paraded
    the streets at a foot's pace till they came to
    Cheapside."--Froissart's Chronicles, translated by Johnes, vol. vii.
    p. 708.

It is barely possible that our modern historians may have been misled by Shakspeare, who makes
Pontefract the scene of his death.

Another circumstance which militates against the received story, is the fact that all historians,
I believe, agree that his dead body was conveyed to burial from the Tower of London. Now, it
seems odd, to say the least, that if he really died at Pontefract, and his corpse was removed
to London, that no one mentions this removal--that Froissart had not heard of it, although,
from the nature of the country, the want of good roads, &c., the funeral convoy must have been
several days upon the road. Can any one give me any information upon this question? I may just
say that, of course, no reliance can be placed on the fact of the "very identical tower" in
which the deposed king died being shown at Pontefract.

H. A. B.

Sir W. Herschel's Observations and Writings.--Will you permit me to propose the following Queries
in your excellent paper.

1. I have a note to the following effect, but it is without date or reference. The late Sir
W. Herschel, during an examination of the heavens in which he was observing stars that have
a proper motion, saw one of the 7.8 magnitude near the 17th star 12 hour of Piazzi's Catalogue,
and noted the approximate distance between them; on the third night after, he saw it again,
when it had advanced a good deal, having gone farther to the eastward, and towards the equator.
Bad weather, and the advancing twilight, prevented Sir William's getting another observation.
Meantime the estimated movement in three days was 10" in right ascension, and about a minute,
or rather less, towards the north. "So slow a motion," he says, {392} "would make me suspect
the situation to be beyond Uranus." What I wish to inquire is this: has it been established
by calculation whether the new planet discovered by Adams and Le Verrier was or was not the
star observed at the time and in the place specified by Sir William Herschel?

2. Have Sir W. Herschel's contributions to the Philosophical Transactions ever been published
in a separate form? and if so, where they can be obtained?

H. C. K.

Swearing by Swans.--

    "At the banquet held on this occasion, he vowed before God and the
    swans, which according to usage were placed on the table, to punish
    the Scottish rebels."--Keightley's History of England, vol. i. p.
    249. ed. 1839.

What authority is there for this statement respecting the swans? What was the origin and significance
of the usage to which allusion is here made?

R. V.

Winchester.

Automachia.--I am the possessor of a little book, some 2½ inches long by 1½ wide, bound in
green velvet, entitled Automachia, or the Self-conflict of a Christian, and dedicated

    "To the most noble, vertuous, and learned lady, the Lady Mary Nevil,
    one of the daughters of the Right Honourable the Earl of Dorcet, Lord
    High Treasurer of England."

The book commences with an anagram on the lady's name:

 "Add but an A to Romanize your name
  Another Pallas is your anagram,
              Videlicet
              Maria Nevila
              Alia Minerva."

And then follow some "Stanzes Dedicatory," subscribed--

    Most deuoted to your honourable vertues.--J. S."

On the last page is--

    "London, printed by Milch Bradwood, for Edward Blount, 1607."

The Automachia is a poem of 188 lines, in heroic metre, and is followed by a shorter poem,
entitled "A Comfortable Exhortation to the Christian in his Self-conflict."

Do any of your correspondents know of the existence or authorship of this little work? It is
not in the British Museum, nor could the curators of the library there, to whom it was shown,
make out anything about it.

The discovery of its authorship might tend to throw some light on that of "The Pedlar's Song,"
attributed to Shakspeare, and appearing in Vol. i., p. 23. of "NOTES AND QUERIES." The song
contains the line--

 "Such is the sacred hunger for gold."

And in the Automachia I find the "auri sacra fames" described as--

 "Midas' desire, the miser's only trust,
  The sacred hunger of Pactolian dust."

A. M.

Poa cynosuwides.--Poa cynosuwides, the sacred grass of India, is mentioned in Persoon's Synopsis,
as also an Egyptian plant: does it appear on the Egyptian monuments? Theophrastus, quoted in
the Præparatio Evangelica of Eusebius, mentions the use of a certain [Greek: poa] in the ancient
sacrifices of Egypt.

F. Q.

Vineyards.--Besides those at Bury St. Edmonds and Halfield, are there any other pieces of land
bearing this name? and if so, when were they disused for their original purpose?

CLERICUS.

Martin, Cockerell, and Hopkins Families.--Can any one give information respecting the families
of Martin, Cockerell, and Hopkins, in or near Wivenhoe, Essex?

CLERICUS.

Camden's Poem on Marriage of the Thames and Isis.--I should esteem it a favour if any reader
of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" would inform me where I can find a Latin poem of Camden's on the
"Marriage of the Thames with the Isis." In his work styled Britannia (which was enlarged by
Richard Gough, in 3 vols., fol. Lond. 1789), in vol. i. p. 169., under Surrey, Camden himself
quotes two passages; and in vol. ii., under Middlesex, p. 2., one passage, from the above-mentioned
poem. I have in vain made many endeavours to find the entire poem. I have examined the original
work, as well as all the translations of Britannia, sive Florentissimorum Regnorum Angliæ,
etc., chorographica descriptio; Gulielmo Camdeno, authore, Londini, 1607, folio. All these
contain the quotations I have specified, but no more, and I am anxious to see the whole of
the poem.

¶S.

National Airs of England.--Among the national gleanings which are sent to your journal, I have
not seen any that relate to the traditional music of England. We allow our airs to be stolen
on all sides, and, had not Mr. Chappell acted the part of a detective, might never have recovered
our own property. Ireland has taken "My Lodging is on the cold Ground" and "The Girls we leave
behind us," while Scotland has laid claim to all her own at least, and Germany is laying violent
hands on "God save the Queen."

Under these circumstances, would it not be a good thing, for those who have the power, to communicate
the simple air of any song which appears native to our country, together with the words? I
fancy that in this way we should gain many hints, besides musical ones, highly interesting
to your readers.

? (3.).

{393}

P.S. It has struck me that the origin of the word mass may be found in the custom, referred
to in an early number of "NOTES AND QUERIES," of messing persons together at dinner in former
times.

Poor Pillgarlick.--Whence comes the expression, "Poor Pilgarlick," and how should the words
be spelt?

H. P.

Exeter.

Inscription on a Portrait.--Can any of your correspondents explain the meaning of the following
inscription:--

  io  par.  pla
  vx

placed at the top left-hand corner of an old portrait in my possession, supposed to be that
of Philip II. of Spain?

C. EDWARDS.

Burton's Parliamentary Diary.--The sale of clergymen for slaves is alluded to in vol. iv. of
Burton's Diary. This has received elucidation at p. 253. of your present volume.

Tobacconists.--At p. 320, vol. i., of Burton's Parliamentary Diary it is stated, that

    "Sir John Reynolds said he had numbered the House, and there were at
    rising at least 220 present, besides tobacconists."

What and who were the persons designated as tobacconists?

P. T.

"The Owl is abroad."--On what ground is the fine base song, "The Owl is abroad," attributed
to Henry Purcell? Dr. Clarke has done so in his well-known selections from Purcell's works;
and Mr. G. Hogarth, in his Memoirs of the Musical Drama, speaking of Purcell's Tempest, says:

    "There is a song for Caliban, The Owl is abroad, the Bat and the
    Toad, which one might suppose Weber to have imagined."

Is it not really the property of John Christopher Smith, the friend of Handel? Amongst the
few books of printed music in the British Museum Catalogue is The Tempest, an Opera, composed
by Mr. Smith, in which is the base song in question. On the other hand, I do not find it in
Purcell's Tempest. If, as I imagine, it belongs to Mr. Smith, it seems peculiarly hard that
the credit of the composition should be taken from him, to be given to one who stands in no
need of it.

Is this rumour any where else alluded to? and if so, upon what foundation?

P. T.

Letters of Horning.--What is the meaning of "letters of horning," a term occasionally, though
rarely, met with in documents drawn up by notaries? And, à propos, why should "notaries public,"
with regard to the noun and adjective, continue to place the cart before the horse?

MANLEIUS.

Cromwell Poisoned.--At p. 516. vol. ii. of Burton's Parliamentary Diary it is stated, in a
note upon the death of Oliver Cromwell, that his body exhibited certain appearances "owing
to the disease of which the Protector died, which, by the by, appeared to be that of poison."
The words, "Prestwich's MS." are attached to this note. Is there any other authority for this
statement?

P. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies. 330. 362.)

The dispute about the Collar of SS., between MR. J. GOUGH NICHOLS and ARMIGER, is, as Sir Lucius
O'Trigger would say, "a mighty pretty quarrel as it stands;" but I have seen no mention by
either writer of "the red sindon" for the chamber of Queen Philippa, "beaten throughout with
the letter S in gold leaf:" or the throne of Henry V. powdered with the letter S, in an illuminated
MS. of his time, in Bennet College Library, Cambridge. I fancy there will be some difficulty
in reconciling these two examples with the theory of either of the disputants. When ARMIGER
alludes to the monument of Matilda Fitzwalter, "who lived in the reign of King John," I presume
he is aware that the effigy is not of that period. I do not think any of the seekers of this
hidden signification can be said to be even warm yet, much less to burn.

J. R. PLANCHÉ.

Collar of SS.--As I conceive that the description of this Collar by your correspondent C. (Vol.
ii., p. 330.) is not strictly correct, I forward you drawings of two examples: No. 1. from
the monument of Sir Humphrey Stafford (and which is the general type); No. 2. from that of
the husband of Margaret Holand, Countess of Somerset (Gough's Funeral Monuments). The latter
example might have been called a Collar of 8, 8, were it not that that name is less euphonious
than SS. The collar was worn by several ladies. (See the work above quoted.)

B. W.

    [The figures in the example No. 1. forwarded by B. W. cannot possibly
    have been intended for {394} anything but SS.; while, on the other
    hand, those in No. 2., as he rightly observes, are more like figures 8,
    8, than the letters SS.]

While the origin of the Collar of Esses is instructively occupying your correspondents, allow
me to direct your attention to the enclosed paragraph extracted from the Morning Post of the
18th instant, from which it appears that Lord Denman's collar has been "obtained" (Qy. by purchase?)
by the corporation of Derby for the future use of their mayor. I wish to know, can a Quo warranto
issue to the said mayor for the assumption of this badge? and if not, in whom does the power
reside of correcting this abuse, if such it be?

    "THE GOLD CHAIN OF THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE OF ENGLAND.--On Wednesday
    week, at a meeting of the corporation of Derby, the mayor stated that
    the chain he then had the honour to wear was the one worn by the Lord
    Chief Justice of England, and that it had been obtained from Lord
    Denman by the corporation for all future chief magistrates of the
    borough. We understand the corporation obtained the chain upon the same
    terms as it would have been transferred to Lord Campbell, if his
    lordship had taken to it from his noble predecessor."--(Quoted from
    Nottingham Journal, in Morning Post, 18th Oct. 1850.)

F. S. Q.

The inclosed paragraph, extracted from the Morning Post of last Saturday completes the history
of the municipal collar of the corporation of Derby, concerning which I recently proposed a
Query. The right to purchase does not, however, establish the right to wear such a decoration.

    "THE INSIGNIA OF MAYORALTY.--Considerable excitement prevails just now
    in many municipal corporations respecting the insignia of mayoralty. At
    Derby the mayor has recently obtained the gold chain worn by Lord
    Denman when Lord Chief Justice. In reference to a question whether or
    not the chain was a present, a correspondent of the Derby Mercury
    says, 'I am sorry to admit, it was a bargain; it cost 100l., and is
    paid for. The chain is the property of the corporation, and will grace
    the neck of every succeeding mayor. The robes did not accompany the
    chain; they are bran new, gay in colour, a good cut, and hang well;
    they are private property, consequently not necessarily transferable.
    Every mayor will have the privilege of choosing the shape and colour of
    his official vestment, and can retain or dispose of it as he may deem
    proper. It was suggested that the robes should be the property of the
    corporation, but a difficulty arose, from the fact, that mayors differ
    as much in their bodies as they do in their minds, so that one measure
    would not conveniently fit all. Economically speaking, the suggestion
    was a valuable one, but the physical difficulty was insurmountable. It
    has been hinted that a wardrobe of habiliments for different sized
    mayors might be kept on hand at the Town-Hall, but as the cost would be
    great, and the arrangement would partake too much of the customary
    preparation for a fancy ball or masquerade, it was thought
    objectionable. The Liberal corporation have, therefore, very properly
    resolved on throwing no obstacle in the way of Free Trade, and it is
    their determination to enable all mayors, in the selection of their
    vestures, to buy in the cheapest market and sell in the
    dearest.'"--Morning Post, Oct. 26. 1850.

F. S. Q.

As I was the first to open the fire on the very puzzling subject of the SS. Collar, which has
led to more pleasant and profitable, though warm discussion, than ever any person could have
expected, it seems now to be time for some to step forward as a moderator; and if I be allowed
to do so, it will be to endeavour to check the almost uncourteous way in which our ARMIGER
friend has taken up the gauntlet on the question.

If, Sir, you admit severe and sneering criticism, it will, it may be feared, tend very considerably
to mar the influence and advantage to be drawn from your useful pages, which are intended,
I conceive, for calm, friendly and courteous interchange of useful information. Without vituperating
the lucubrations of MR. JOHN GOUGH NICHOLS, or sneering at those who "pin faith on his dicta,"
which have much merit (Vol. ii., p. 363.), it would be surely possible for ARMIGER to advance
his own views with good temper and friendly feeling.

I have also a word to say to MR. NICHOLS on his remarks on MR. ELLACOMBE'S view. He imputes
to MR. E. ignorance of the "real formation of the collar." He could only mean that the S hook
or link gave the idea of such an ornamental chain; and I believe he is correct: which ornament
the taste of the workman would adopt and fashion as we now have it, with the insertion of another
link both for the comfort of the wearer, and for variety in the construction.

A series of SSes (SSS) by themselves would certainly be a galling badge, whatever honour might
be considered to be conferred with it.

B. (original), in future SS., as my initial has been usurped by some unknown friend.

October. 30. 1850.

Collar of Esses.--I am glad to see the interest shown by your correspondents upon this curious
subject, and the various opinions expressed by them as to the actual formation of the collar;
the signification of the letter, if a letter be intended (of which I think there can be no
reasonable doubt); and the persons who were privileged to wear it. The first two questions
will for ever occasion discussion; but allow me to suggest that one step towards the solution
of the third, would be a collection in your pages of the names of those persons who, either
on their monumental effigies or brasses, or in their portraits or otherwise, are {395} represented
as wearing that ornament; together with a short statement of the position held by each of these
individuals in the court of the then reigning monarch, seeming to warrant the assumption. Some
notices of this sort have been already given, and your antiquarian correspondents will readily
supply others; so that in a little time you will have obtained such a list as will greatly
assist the inquiry. It may serve as a commencement if I refer to the atchievement of Thomas
Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, in the reign of Richard II., a representation of which is given in
Archæologia, vol. xxix. p. 387., where the Collar of Esses is introduced in a very peculiar manner.

EDWARD FOSS.

    [As we think the origin and probable meaning of the Collar of Esses
    have now been discussed as far as they can be with advantage in the
    present state of our knowledge, we propose to adopt Mr. Foss's
    suggestion, and in future to limit our columns to a record of such
    facts as he points out.]

       *       *       *       *       *

DANIEL DE FOE.

Having been much interested with Daniel Defoe's description of a Gravesend Tiltboat in the
year 1724, as recorded by ALPHA in Vol. ii., p. 209., I think some of your readers may be pleased
to learn that it is quite possible that "it may be a plain relation of matter of fact," as
De Foe was engaged in the business of brick and tile making near Tilbury[1], and must consequently
have had frequent occasion to make the trip from Gravesend to London.

Referring to a design of putting the learned Selden into the pillory for his History of Tithes,
he says smartly:--

 "Even the learned Selden saw
  A prospect of thee thro' the law;
  He had thy lofty pinnacles in view,
  But so much honour never was they due.
  Had the great Selden triumph'd on thy stage,
  Selden, the honour of his age,
  No man would ever shun thee more,
  Or grudge to stand where Selden stood before."

This original poem ends with these remarkable lines, referring to himself:

 "Tell them, the men that placed him here,
  Are scandals to the times,
  Are at a loss to find his guilt,
  And can't commit his crimes."

De Foe, however, was afterwards received into favour without any concessions on his part, and
proceeded straight onwards in the discharge of what he deemed to be his duty to mankind. He
certainly was an extraordinary man for disinterestedness, perseverance, and industry.

W. CRAFTER.

Gravesend.

[Footnote 1: Traces of these tile-works are still discoverable in a field some three or four
hundred yards on the London side of Tilbury.

    [Wilson, in his Life of Defoe, vol. i. pp. 228. et seq., gives some
    interesting particulars of Defoe's share in these pantile works, and of
    his losses in connexion with them. Pantiles had been hitherto a Dutch
    manufacture, and brought in large quantities into England; the works at
    Tilbury were erected for the purpose of superseding the necessity for
    such importation, and providing a new channel for the employment of
    labour.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"ANTIQUITAS SÆCULI JUVENTUS MUNDI."

(Vol. ii., pp. 218. 350.)

T. J. and his Dublin friend (Vol. ii., p. 350.), appear to refer, one to the Latin version,
the other to the original English text of Lord Bacon's Instauration; and, oddly enough, the
inference to which either points, as a reason for disbelieving in the previous existence of
the phrase "Antiquitas" &c., extends not to the authority consulted by the other. Thus, the
circumstance of "ordine retrogrado" being printed also in Italics, is true only in respect
of the English text; while, on the other {396} hand, "ut vere dicamus" is an expression to
be found only in the Latin.

But it may be doubted whether the originality of the phrase "Antiquitas sæculi juventus mundi"
is, after all, worth speculating upon. In the sense in which Lord Bacon used it, it is rather
a naked truism than a wise aphorism. It does not even necessarily convey the intended meaning;
nor, if unaccompanied by an explanation, would it be safe from a widely different interpretation.
A previous correspondent of "NOTES AND QUERIES" had termed it "this fine aphoristic expression;"
and yet, when Lord Bacon himself expands the thought into an aphorism, he does so without recurring
to the phrase in question, which is a tolerably fair proof that he did not look upon it as
a peculiarly happy one. (Novum Organum, lib. 1., Aphorismus LXXXIV.)

T. J. infers that if the phrase were a quotation it would have been preceded by "ut dictum
est" rather than by "ut dicamus"--but even if it had been introduced by the first of these
forms, it does not appear that it would thereby have been proved to be a quotation; because
there are instances wherein Lord Bacon directly refers to the source from which he professes
to quote, and yet prefers to give the purport in his own words rather than in those of his
author. Thus, in citing one of the most exquisite and familiar passages of Lucretius, he introduces
it by the prefix, "Poeta elegantissime dixit." And yet what follows, although printed in italics
with every appearance of strict quotation, is not the language of Lucretius, but a commonplace
prose version of its substance. (Sermones Fideles, De Veritate.)

With reference to Lord Bacon's works, there are two Queries which I wish to ask.

T. J.'s friend mentions a rare translation into English by Gilbert Wats, Oxford, as existing
in Primate Marsh's library. Query, Of what is it a translation?

In Lord Bacon's life, by William Rawley, it is stated that his lordship was born in a house
"infra plateam dictum Le Strand juxta Londinum."

Query, Was the Strand ever known as Le Strand, similarly to Adwick-le-street in Yorkshire?

A. E. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Sir Gammer Vans (Vol. ii., pp 89. 280.).--The story related by S. G. is the same that I inquired
after, and I admire the accuracy of his memory, for his version is, for the greater part, literally
the same that I heard in Ireland sixty years ago. A few passages, as that about hipper switches,
I do not recollect; and one or two that I remember are wanting--the one, that the narrator
was received in "a little oak parlour" of, I forget what, different character; the other, that
Sir Gammer's "mother," or "aunt, was a justice of peace, and his sister a captain of horse."
I find that Goldsmith's allusion is to this last passage, with some variation. Tony Lumpkin
tells Marlow that Hardcastle will endeavour to persuade him that "his mother was an alderman
and his aunt a justice of peace." (She Stoops to Conquer, A. i. sub fine.) I have not been
able to find the allusion in Swift; nor can I see how it could have been a political satire.
It seems rather to be a mere tissue of incongruities and contradictions--of Irish bulls, in
short, woven into a narrative to make folks laugh; and it is much of the same character as
many other pieces of ingenious nonsense with which Swift and Sheridan used to amuse each other.

C.

Sir Gammer Vans.--This worthy is mentioned in that curious little chap-book, A Strange and
Wonderful Relation of the Old Woman that was drowned at Ratcliff Highway, in two parts. I now
quote the passage from a copy of the genuine Aldermary churchyard edition:--

    "At last I arrived at Sir John Vang's house. 'Tis a little house
    entirely alone, encompassed about with forty or fifty houses, having a
    brick wall made of flint stone round about it. So knocking at the door,
    Gammer Vangs, said I, is Sir John Vangs within? Walk in, said she, and
    you shall see him in the little, great, round, three square parlour.
    This Gammer Vangs had a little old woman her son. Her mother was a
    churchwarden of a large troop of horse, and her grandmother was a
    Justice of the Peace; but when I came into the said great, little,
    square, round, three corner'd parlour, I could not see Sir John Vangs,
    for he was a giant. But I espied abundance of nice wicker bottles. And
    just as I was going out he called to me and asked me what I would have?
    So looking back I espied him just creeping out of a wicker bottle. It
    seems by his profession he was a wicker bottle maker. And after he had
    made them, he crept out at the stopper holes."

There are two notes worth recording with respect to this curious medley, which is obviously
a modern version of a much older composition. Query, is any older edition known?

1. That the wood-cut on the title page, which has been re-engraved for Mr. Halliwell's Notices
of Fugitive Tracts and Chap-books, printed for the Percy Society, is one of the few representations
we have of the old Ducking Stool.

2. That it is said that the Rev. Thomas Kerrich, the well-known librarian of the University
of Cambridge, could repeat by heart the whole of the eight and forty pages of this strange
gallimawfrey.

W. J. THOMS.

Hipperswitches (Vol. ii., p. 280.).--I saw a story which was copied into the Examiner of Oct.
5. from "NOTES AND QUERIES," entitled "Sir Gammer Vans." The correspondent who has furnished
{397} you with the tale says that he is ignorant of the meaning of "hipper switches." Now hipper
is a word applied in this part of the country to a description of osiers used in coarse basket
making, and which were very likely things to be bound up into switches. A field in which they
grow, near the water side, is called a "hipper-holm." There is a station on the Lancashire
and Yorkshire railway, which takes its name from such a meadow. My nurse, a Cornwall woman,
tells me hipper withies fetch a higher price than common withies in her country.

E. C. G.

Lancaster.

Cat and Bagpipes (Vol. ii., p. 266.).--A public-house of considerable notoriety, with this
sign, existed long at the corner of Downing Street, next to King Street. It was also used as
a chop-house, and frequented by many of those connected with the public offices in the neighbourhood.

An old friend told me that many years ago he met George Rose,--so well known in after life
as the friend of Pitt, clerk of the Parliament, secretary of the Treasury, &c., and executor
of the Earl of Marchmont,--then a bashful young man, at the Cat and Bagpipes.

I may mention that George Rose was one of the few instances which I have met with, where a
Scotsman had freed himself from the peculiarities of the speech of his country. Sir William
Grant was another. Frank Homer was a third. I never knew another.

R.

Forlot, Firlot, or Furlet (Vol. i., p. 371.).--It may be interesting to your correspondent
J. S. to be informed that there is a measure of capacity in universal use in this part of India
called a fara or fura, which is identical in shape, and, as nearly as can be judged by the
eye, in size, with the Scottish furlet. The fura is divided into sixteen pilys, a small measure
in universal use here; in like manner as the furlet is divided into sixteen lipys, which measure
was, and I presume still is, in general use throughout Scotland. A friend informs me that,
in the west of Scotland, the common pronunciation of the word furlet is exactly the same as
that of the word fura here by the Mahrattas. It is unnecessary to point out the numerous instances
in which such changes as that from pily to lipy take place per metathesem.

Now, an interesting subject of investigation, supposing the coincidence above noticed not to
be an accidental one, would be to trace the links of connexion between these words; and in
this, some of your German readers may be enabled to afford valuable aid.

As an illustration of the same article being in use in widely distant localities, I may mention
that on returning to England from a voyage to China, I brought with me a Chinese abacus or
swanpan, the instrument in general use among the Chinese for performing the ordinary computations
of addition, subtraction, &c., thinking it a grand article of curiosity, particularly in a
remote seaport town on the east coast, with which to astonish the natives. But what was my
chagrin when I was informed by an honest Baltic skipper, that to him, at least the instrument
was no rarity at all; that he had seen them used hundreds of times for the same purposes at
various ports in the Baltic; and that, moreover, he had one of them in his home at that very
time, which he forthwith produced.

J. SH.

Bombay.

Sitting during the Lessons (Vol. ii., p. 246.).--The rubric directing the people to stand while
the Gospel is read in the Communion service, was first inserted in the Scotch Common Prayer
Book, A. D. 1637. The ancient and more reverential practice of standing whenever any portion
of God's word is read, had not fallen into entire disuse as late as 1686, as will appear from
the following extract from The Life of Bishop Wilson, by Cruttwell, prefixed to the folio edition
of his works. It occurs (p. 4.) under certain heads of advice given to that holy bishop, at
the time he was ordained deacon, by his much-esteemed friend, Archdeacon Hewetson:--

    "Never to miss the church's public devotions twice a day, when
    unavoidable business, or want of health, or of a church (as in
    travelling), does not hinder. In church to behave himself also very
    reverently; nor ever turn his back upon the altar in service time, nor
    on the minister, when it can be avoided; to stand at the lessons and
    epistle as well as at the gospel, and especially when a psalm is sung:
    to bow reverently at the name of Jesus whenever it is mentioned in any
    of the church's offices; to turn towards the east when the Gloria Patri
    and the creeds are rehearsing; and to make obeisance at coming into,
    and going out of the church, and at going up to, and coming down from,
    the altar; are all ancient, commendable, and devout usages, and which
    thousands of good people of our Church practise at this day, and
    amongst them, if he deserves to be reckoned amongst them, Thomas
    Wilson's dear friend."

J. Y.

Hoxton.

Engelmann's Bibliotheca Auctor. Class. (Vol. ii., pp. 296. 312. 328.).--"I hereby attest that
the English titles to my Bibliotheca Scriptorum Classicorum were not printed without my knowledge
or wish, but by myself, for my customers in England. ... W. ENGELMANN."

Leipzig, Oct. 25. 1850.

I also enclose the original, for the benefit of MR. DE MORGAN, if he is not satisfied.

ANOTHER FOREIGN BOOKSELLER.

News (Vol. ii., p. 81.).--Much wit and ingenuity have been wasted on this word. It seems {398}
clear, however, that its origin is Dutch or German, and probably Flemish, like the "NEW'S BOOK,"
so frequently occurring in the correspondence of the seventeenth century.

Look into that valuable German, French, and Latin dictionary of the Elzeviers, Amst. 1664,
where you will find "NEWE, F. une novelle; Lat. nova, novorum." Then follow "Etwas newes, quelque
chose de nouveau; Aliquid novi;" and "Was newes, quelles nouvelles;" or, more accurately, "Quid
novi; quoi de nouveau?" The inference is forced upon us that, during the Flemish wars, in which
the Sidneys and a long catalogue of noble English volunteers distinguished themselves, the
thing and the term were imported hither.

