On a Buddhist temple of cyclopean structure at Mundore (Tod's Rajasthan, vol. i. p. 727.),
the cross appears as a sacred figure, together with the double triangle, another emblem of
very wide distribution, occurring on ancient British coins (Camden's Britannica), Central American
buildings (Norman's Travels in Yucatan), among the Jews as the Shield of David (Brucker's History
of Philosophy), and a well-known masonic symbol frequently introduced into Gothic ecclesiastical
edifices.

In Palestine.--

    "According to R. Solomon Jarchi, the Talmud, and Maimonides, when the
    priest sprinkled the blood of the victim on the consecrated cakes and
    hallowed utensils, he was always careful to do it in the form of a
    cross. The same symbol was used when the kings and high priests were
    anointed."--Faber's Horæ Mosaicæ, vol. ii. p. 188.

See farther hereon, Deane on Serpent Worship.

In Persia.--The trefoil on which the sacrifices were placed was probably held sacred from its
cruciform character. The cross ([+]) occurs on Persian buildings among other sacred symbols.
(R. K. Porter's Travels, vol. ii.)

In Britain.--The cross was formed by baring a tree to a stump, and inserting another crosswise
on the top; on the three arms thus formed were inscribed the names of the three principal,
or triad of gods, Hesus, Belenus, and Taranis. The stone avenues of the temple at Classerniss
are arranged in the form of a cross. (Borlase's Antiquities of Cornwall.)

In Scandinavia.--The hammer of Thor was in the form of the cross; see in Herbert's Select Icelandic
Poetry, p. 11., and Laing's Kings of Norway, vol. i. pp. 224. 330., a curious anecdote of King
Hacon, who, having been converted to Christianity, made the sign of the cross when he drank,
but persuaded his irritated Pagan followers that it was the sign of Thor's hammer.

The figure of Thor's hammer was held in the utmost reverence by his followers, who were called
the children of Thor, who in the last day would save themselves by his mighty hammer. The fiery
cross, so well known by Scott's vivid description, was originally the hammer of Thor, which
in early Pagan, as in later Christian times, was used as a summons to convene the people either
to council or to war. (Herbert's Select Icelandic Poetry, p. 11.)

EDEN WARWICK.

Birmingham.

{133}

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Glass Chambers for Photography.--I am desirous to construct a small glass chamber for taking
portraits in, and shall be much obliged if you can assist me by giving me instructions how
it should be constructed, or by directing me where I shall find clear and sufficient directions,
as to dimensions, materials, and arrangements. Is it essential that it should be all of violet-coloured
glass, ground at one side, as that would add a good deal to the expense? or will white glass,
with thin blue gauze curtains or blinds, answer?

Probably a full answer to this inquiry, accompanied with such woodcut illustrations as would
be necessary to render the description complete, and such as an artificer could work by, would
confer a boon on many amateur photographers, as well as your obliged servant,

C. E. F.

    [In the construction of a photographic house, we beg to inform our
    correspondent that it is by no means needful to use entirely
    violet-coloured glass, but the roof thereof exposed to the rays of the
    sun should be so protected; for although the light is much subdued, and
    the glare so painful to the eyes of the sitter is taken away, yet but
    few of the actinic rays are obstructed. It has been proposed to coat
    the interior with smalt mixed with starch, and afterwards varnished;
    but this does not appear to have answered. Calico, both white and
    coloured, has also been used, but it is certainly not so effectual or
    pleasant. Upon the whole, we think that the main things to attend to
    are, firmness in its construction, so as to avoid vibration; ample
    size, so as to allow not only of room for the operator, but also for
    the arrangements of background, &c., and the sides to open so as to
    allow a free circulation of air; blinds to be applied at such spots
    only as shall be found requisite. Adjoining, or in one corner, a small
    closet should be provided, admitting only yellow light, which may be
    effectually accomplished by means of yellow calico. A free supply of
    water is indispensable, which may be conveyed both to and from by means
    of the gutta percha tubing now in such general use. We apprehend,
    however, that the old proverb, "You must cut your coat according to
    your cloth," is most especially applicable to our querist, for not only
    must the house be constructed according to the advantages afforded by
    the locality, but the amount of expense will be very differently
    thought of by different persons: one will be content with any moderate
    arrangement which will answer the purpose, where another will be
    scarcely satisfied unless everything is quite of an orné character.]

Dr. Diamond's Replies.--I am sorry I have not before replied to the Queries of your correspondent
W. F. E., contained in Vol. viii., p. 41.; but absence from home, together with a pressure
of public duties here, has prevented me from so doing.

1st. No doubt a small portion of nitrate of potash is formed when the iodized collodion is
immersed in the bath of nitrate of silver, by mutual decomposition; but it is in so small a
quantity as not to deteriorate the bath.

2nd. I believe collodion will keep good much longer than is generally supposed; at the beginning
of last month I obtained a tolerably good portrait of Mr. Pollock from some remains in a small
bottle brought to me by Mr. Archer in September 1850; and I especially notice this fact, as
it is connected with the first introduction of the use of collodion in England. Generally speaking,
I do not find that it deteriorates in two or three months; the addition of a few drops of the
iodizing solution will generally restore it, unless it has become rotten: this, I think, is
the case when the gun cotton has not been perfectly freed from the acid. The redness which
collodion assumes by age, may also be discharged by the addition of a few drops of liquor ammoniæ,
but I do not think it in any way accelerates its activity of action.

3rd. "Washed ether," or, as it is sometimes called, "inhaling ether," has been deprived of
the alcohol which the common ether contains, and it will not dissolve the gun cotton unless
the alcohol is restored to it. I would here observe that an excess of alcohol (spirits of wine)
thickens the collodion, and gives it a mucilaginous appearance, rendering it much more difficult
to use by its slowness in flowing over the glass plate, as well as producing a less even surface
than when nearly all ether is used. A collodion, however, with thirty-five per cent. of spirits
of wine, is very quick, allowing from its less tenacious quality a more rapid action of the
nitrate of silver bath.

4th. Cyanide of potassium has been used to re-dissolve the iodide of silver, but the results
are by no means so satisfactory; the cost of pure iodide of potassium bought at a proper market
is certainly very inconsiderable compared to the disappointment resulting from a false economy.

H. W. DIAMOND.

Surrey County Asylum.

