The houses were set on fire with special apparatus, while people were dragged from their houses,
already burning, and some were shot in the streets.

Many civilians were marched to a field on the road to Louvain and kept there all night. Meanwhile
many of the inhabitants were collected in the square. By this time very many of the troops
were drunk.

On the following day a number of the civilians were shot under the orders of an officer, together
with the Burgomaster, his brother, and his son. Of this incident, which is spoken to by many
witnesses, a clear account is given:

     "German soldiers came and took hold of me and every other man
     they could see, and eventually there were about sixty of us,
     including some of 80, (i.e., years of age,) and they made us
     accompany them ... all the prisoners had to walk with their
     hands above their heads. We were then stopped and made to
     stand in a line, and an officer, a big fat man who had a
     bluish uniform ... came along the line and picked out the
     Burgomaster, his brother, and his son, and some men who had
     been employed under the Red Cross. In all, ten men were picked
     out ... the remainder were made to turn their backs upon the
     ten. I then heard some shots fired, and I and the other men
     turned around and we saw all the ten men, including the
     Burgomaster, were lying on the ground."

This incident is spoken to by other witnesses also. Some of their depositions appear in the
appendix.

GELRODE.

On the same day at Gelrode, a small village close to Aerschot, twenty-five civilians were imprisoned
in the church. Seven were taken out by fifteen German soldiers in charge of an officer just
outside. One of the seven tried to run away, whereupon all the six who remained behind alive
were shot. This was on the night of Aug. 19. No provocation whatever had been given. The men
in question had been searched, and no arms had been found upon them. Here, as at Aerschot,
precautions had been taken previously to secure the delivery up of all arms in the hands of
civilians.

Some of the survivors were compelled to dig graves for the seven. At a later date the corpses
were disinterred and reburied in consecrated ground. The marks of the bullets in the brick
wall against which the six were shot were then still plainly visible. On the same day a woman
was shot by some German soldiers as she was walking home. This was done at a distance of 100
yards and for no apparent reason.

An account of a murder by an officer at Campenhout is given in a later part of this report,
and depositions relating to Rotselaer, Tremeloo, and Wespelaer will be found in the appendix.

The committee is specially impressed by the character of the outrages committed in the smaller
villages. Many of these are exceptionally shocking and cannot be regarded as contemplated or
prescribed by the responsible commanders of the troops by whom they were committed. The inference,
however, which we draw from these occurrences is that when once troops have been encouraged
in a career of terrorism the more savage and brutal natures, of whom there are some in every
large army, are liable to run to wild excess, more particularly in those regions where they
are least subject to observation and control.

AERSCHOT AND DISTRICT.

Period II., (Aug. 25.)

Immediately after the battle of Malines, which resulted in the evacuation by the Germans of
the district of Malines, Sempst, Hofstade, and Eppeghem, a long series of murders were committed
either just before or during the retreat of the army. Many of the inhabitants who were unarmed,
including women and young children, were killed--some of them under revolting circumstances.

Evidence given goes to show that the death of these villagers was due not to accident, but
to deliberate purpose. The wounds were generally stabs or cuts, and for the most part appear
to have been inflicted with the bayonet.

MALINES.

In Malines itself many bodies were seen. One witness saw a German soldier cut a woman's breasts
after he had murdered her, and saw many other dead bodies of women in the streets.

HOFSTADE.

In Hofstade a number of houses had been set on fire and many corpses were seen, some in houses,
some in back yards, and some in the streets.

Several examples are given below.

Two witnesses speak to having seen the body of a young man pierced by bayonet thrusts with
the wrists cut also.

On a side road the corpse of a civilian was seen on his doorstep with a bayonet wound in his
stomach, and by his side the dead body of a boy of 5 or 6 with his hands nearly severed.

The corpses of a woman and boy were seen at the blacksmith's. They had been killed with the
bayonet.

In a café a young man, also killed with the bayonet, was holding his hands together as if in
the attitude of supplication.

Two young women were lying in the back yard of the house. One had her breasts cut off, the
other had been stabbed.

A young man had been hacked with the bayonet until his entrails protruded. He also had his
hands joined in the attitude of prayer.

In the garden of a house in the main street bodies of two women were observed, and in another
house the body of a boy of 16 with two bayonet wounds in the chest.

SEMPST.

In Sempst a similar condition of affairs existed. Houses were burning and in some of them were
the charred remains of civilians.

In a bicycle shop a witness saw the burned corpse of a man. Other witnesses speak to this incident.

Another civilian, unarmed, was shot as he was running away. As will be remembered, all the
arms had been given up some time before by order of the Burgomaster.

The corpse of a man with his legs cut off, who was partly bound, was seen by another witness,
who also saw a girl of 17 dressed only in a chemise, and in great distress. She alleged that
she herself and other girls had been dragged into a field, stripped naked, and violated, and
that some of them had been killed with the bayonet.

WEERDE.--At Weerde four corpses of civilians were lying in the road. It was said that these
men had fired upon the German soldiers; but this is denied. The arms had been given up long before.

Two children were killed in a village, apparently Weerde, quite wantonly as they were standing
in the road with their mother. They were 3 or 4 years old and were killed with the bayonet.

A small farm burning close by formed a convenient means of getting rid of the bodies. They
were thrown into the flames from the bayonets. It is right to add that no commissioned officer
was present at the time.

EPPEGHEM.--At Eppeghem on Aug. 25 a pregnant woman who had been wounded with a bayonet was
discovered in the convent. She was dying. On the road six dead bodies of laborers were seen.

ELEWYT.--At Elewyt a man's naked body was tied up to a ring in the wall in the back yard of
a house. He was dead, and his corpse was mutilated in a manner too horrible to record. A woman's
naked body was also found in a stable abutting on the same back yard.

VILVORDE.--At Vilvorde corpses of civilians were also found. These villages are all on the
line from Malines to Brussels.

BOORT MEERBEEK.--At Boort Meerbeek a German soldier was seen to fire three times at a little
girl 5 years old. Having failed to hit her, he subsequently bayoneted her. He was killed with
the butt end of a rifle by a Belgian soldier who had seen him commit this murder from a distance.

HERENT.--At Herent the charred body of a civilian was found in a butcher's shop, and in a handcart
twenty yards away was the dead body of a laborer.

Two eyewitnesses relate that a German soldier shot a civilian and stabbed him with a bayonet
as he lay. He then made one of these witnesses, a civilian prisoner, smell the blood on the
bayonet.

HAECHT.--At Haecht the bodies of ten civilians were seen lying in a row by a brewery wall.

In a laborer's house, which had been broken up, the mutilated corpse of a woman of 30 to 35
was discovered.

A child of 3 with its stomach cut open by a bayonet was lying near a house.

WERCHTER.--At Werchter the corpses of a man and woman and four younger persons were found in
one house. It is stated that they had been murdered because one of the latter, a girl, would
not allow the Germans to outrage her.

This catalogue of crimes does not by any means represent the sum total of the depositions relating
to this district laid before the committee. The above are given merely as examples of acts
which the evidence shows to have taken place in numbers that might have seemed scarcely credible.

In the rest of the district, that is to say, Aerschot and the other villages from which the
Germans had not been driven, the effect of the battle was to cause a recrudescence of murder,
arson, pillage, and cruelty, which had to some extent died down after Aug. 20 or 21.

In Aerschot itself fresh prisoners seem to have been taken and added to those who were already
in the church, since it would appear that prisoners were kept to some extent in the church
during the whole of the German occupation of Aerschot. The second occasion on which large numbers
of prisoners were put there was shortly after the battle of Malines, and it was then that the
priest of Gelrode was brought to Aerschot Church, treated abominably, and finally murdered.

One witness describes the scene graphically:

     "The whole of the prisoners--men, women and children--were
     placed in the church. Nobody was allowed to go outside the
     church to obey the calls of nature; the church had to be used
     for that purpose. We were afterward allowed to go outside the
     church for this purpose, and then I saw the clergyman of
     Gelrode standing by the wall of the church with his hands
     above his head, being guarded by soldiers."

The actual details of the murder of the priest are as follows: The priest was struck several
times by the soldiers on the head. He was pushed up against the wall of the church. He asked
in Flemish to be allowed to stand with his face to the wall, and tried to turn around. The
Germans stopped him and then turned him with his face to the wall, with his hands above his
head. An hour later the same witness saw the priest still standing there. He was then led away
by the Germans a distance of about fifty yards. There, with his face against the wall of a
house, he was shot by five soldiers.

Other murders of which we have evidence appear in the appendix.

Some of the prisoners in the church at Aerschot were actually kept there until the arrival
of the Belgian Army on Sept. 11, when they were released. Others were marched to Louvain and
eventually merged with other prisoners, both from Louvain itself and the surrounding districts,
and taken to Germany and elsewhere.

It is said by one witness that about 1,500 were marched to Louvain and that the journey took
six hours.

The journey to Louvain is thus described by a witness: We were all marched off to Louvain,
walking. There were some very old people, among others a man 90 years of age. The very old
people were drawn in carts and barrows by the younger men. There was an officer with a bicycle,
who shouted, as people fell out by the side of the road, "Shoot them!"

AERSCHOT AND DISTRICT.

Period III., (September.)

It is unnecessary to describe with much particularity the events of the period beginning about
Sept. 10. The Belgian soldiers, who had recaptured the place, found corpses of civilians who
must have been murdered in Aerschot itself just as they found them in Sempst and the other
villages on Aug. 25. Some of these bodies were found in wells and some had been burned alive
in their houses.

The prisoners released by the Belgian Army from the church were almost starved.

HAECHT.--At Haecht several children had been murdered, one of 2 or 3 years of age was found
nailed to the door of a farmhouse by its hands and feet--a crime which seems almost incredible,
but the evidence for which we feel bound to accept. In the garden of this house was the body
of a girl who had been shot in the forehead.

CAPELLE-AU-BOIS.--At Capelle-au-Bois two children were murdered in a cart and their corpses
were seen by many witnesses at different stages of the cart's journey.

EPPEGHEM.--At Eppeghem the dead body of a child of 2 was seen pinned to the ground with a German
lance. Same witness saw a mutilated woman alive near Weerde on the same day.

TREMELOO.--Belgian soldiers on patrol duty found a young girl naked on the ground, covered
with scratches. She complained of having been violated. On the same day an old woman was seen
kneeling by the body of her husband, and she told them that the Germans had shot him as he
was trying to escape from the house.

LOUVAIN AND DISTRICT.

The events spoken to as having occurred in and around Louvain between the 19th and the 25th
of August deserve close attention.

For six days the Germans were in peaceful occupation of the city. No houses were set on fire--no
citizens killed. There was a certain amount of looting of empty houses, but otherwise discipline
was effectively maintained. The condition of Louvain during these days was one of relative
peace and quietude, presenting a striking contrast to the previous and contemporaneous conduct
of the German Army elsewhere.

On the evening of Aug. 25 a sudden change takes place. The Germans, on that day repulsed by
the Belgians, had retreated to and reoccupied Louvain. Immediately the devastation of that
city and the holocaust of its population commences. The inference is irresistible that the
army as a whole wreaked its vengeance on the civil population and the buildings of the city
in revenge for the setback which the Belgian arms had inflicted on them. A subsidiary cause
alleged was the assertion, often made before that civilians had fired upon the German Army.

The depositions which relate to Louvain are numerous, and are believed by the committee to
present a true and fairly complete picture of the events of the 25th and 26th of August and
subsequent days. We find no grounds for thinking that the inhabitants fired upon the German
Army on the evening of the 25th of August. Eyewitnesses worthy of credence detail exactly when,
where, and how the firing commenced. Such firing was by Germans on Germans. No impartial tribunal
could, in our opinion, come to any other conclusion.

On the evening of the 25th firing could be heard in the direction of Herent, some three kilometers
from Louvain. An alarm was sounded in the city. There was disorder and confusion, and at 8
o'clock horses attached to baggage wagons stampeded in the street and rifle fire commenced.
This was in the Rue de la Station and came from the German police guard, (21 in number,) who,
seeing the troops arrive in disorder, thought it was the enemy. Then the corps of incendiaries
got to work. They had broad belts with the words "Gott mit uns," and their equipment consisted
of a hatchet, a syringe, a small shovel, and a revolver. Fires blazed up in the direction of
the Law Courts, St. Martin's Barracks, and later in the Place de la Station. Meanwhile an incessant
fusillade was kept up on the windows of the houses. In their efforts to escape the flames the
inhabitants climbed the walls.

     "My mother and servants," says a witness, "had to do the same
     and took refuge at Monsieur A.'s, whose cellars are vaulted
     and afforded a better protection than mine. A little later we
     withdrew to Monsieur A.'s stables, where about thirty people
     who had got there by climbing the walls were to be found. Some
     of these poor wretches had to climb twenty walls. A ring came
     at the bell. We opened the door. Several civilians flung
     themselves under the porch. The Germans were firing upon them
     from the street. Every moment new fires were lighting up,
     accompanied by explosions. In the middle of the night I heard
     a knock at the outer door of the stable which led into a
     little street, and heard a woman's voice crying for help. I
     opened the door, and just as I was going to let her in a rifle
     shot fired from the street by a German soldier rang out and
     the woman fell dead at my feet. About 9 in the morning things
     got quieter, and we took the opportunity of venturing into the
     street. A German who was carrying a silver pyx and a number of
     boxes of cigars told us we were to go to the station, where
     trains would be waiting for us. When we got to the Place de la
     Station we saw in the square seven or eight dead bodies of
     murdered civilians. Not a single house in the place was
     standing. A whole row of houses behind the station at Blauwput
     was burned. After being driven hither and thither interminably
     by officers, who treated us roughly and insulted us
     throughout, we were divided."

The prisoners were then distributed between different bodies of troops and marched in the direction
of Herent. Seventy-seven inhabitants of Louvain, including a number of people of good position,
(the names of several are given,) were thus taken to Herent.

     "We found the village of Herent in flames, so much so that we
     had to quicken up to prevent ourselves from being suffocated
     and burned up by the flames in the middle of the road.
     Half-burned corpses of civilians were lying in front of the
     houses. During a halt soldiers stole cattle and slaughtered
     them where they stood. Firing started on our left. We were
     told it was the civilians firing, and that we were going to be
     shot. The truth is that it was the Germans themselves who were
     firing to frighten us. There was not a single civilian in the
     neighborhood. Shortly afterward we proceeded on our march to
     Malines. We were insulted and threatened.... The officers were
     worse than the men. We got to Campenhout about 7 P.M., and
     were locked into the church with all the male population of
     the village. Some priests had joined our numbers. We had had
     nothing to eat or drink since the evening of the day before. A
     few compassionate soldiers gave us water to drink, but no
     official took the trouble to see that we were fed."

Next day, Thursday, the 27th, a safe conduct to return to Louvain was given, but the prisoners
had hardly started, when they were stopped and taken before a Brigade General and handed to
another escort. Some were grossly ill-treated. They were accused of being soldiers out of uniform,
and were told they could not go to Louvain, "as the town was going to be razed to the ground."
Other prisoners were added, even women and children, until there were more than 200. They were
then taken toward Malines, released, and told to go to that town together, and that those who
separated would be fired on. Other witnesses corroborate the events described by the witness.

A woman employed by an old gentleman living in the Rue de la Station tells the story of her
master's death:

     "We had supper as usual about 8, but two German officers, (who
     were staying in the house,) did not come in to supper that
     evening. My master went to bed at 8:15, and so did his son.
     The servants went to bed at 9:30. Soon after I got to my
     bedroom I saw out of my room flames from some burning house
     near by. I roused my master and his son. As they came down the
     stairs they were seized by German soldiers and both were tied
     up and led out, my master being tied with a rope and his son
     with a chain. They were dragged outside. I did not actually
     see what happened outside, but heard subsequently that my
     master was bayoneted and shot, and that his son was shot. I
     heard shots from the kitchen, where I was, and was present at
     the burial of my master and his son thirteen days later.
     German soldiers came back into the house and poured some
     inflammable liquid over the floors and set fire to it. I
     escaped by another staircase to that which my master and his
     son had descended."

On the 26th, (Wednesday,) in the City of Louvain, massacre, fire, and destruction went on.
The university, with its library, the Church of St. Peter, and many houses were set on fire
and burned to the ground. Citizens were shot and others taken prisoners and compelled to go
with the troops. Soldiers went through the streets saying "Man hat geschossen."[A] One soldier
was seen going along shooting in the air.

[Footnote A: "They have been shooting."]

Many of the people hid in cellars, but the soldiers shot down through the gratings. Some citizens
were shot on opening the doors, others in endeavoring to escape. Among other persons whose
houses were burned was an old man of 90 lying dangerously ill, who was taken out on his mattress
and left lying in his garden all night. He died shortly after in the hospital to which a friend
took him the following morning.

On Thursday, the 27th, orders were given that every one should leave the city, which was to
be razed to the ground. Some citizens, including a canon of the cathedral, with his aged mother,
were ordered to go to the station and afterward to take the road to Tirlemont. Among the number
were about twenty priests from Louvain. They were insulted and threatened, but ultimately allowed
to go free and make their way as best they could, women and sick persons among them, to Tirlemont.
Other groups of prisoners from Louvain were on the same day taken by other routes, some early
in the morning, through various villages in the direction of Malines, with hands tightly bound
by a long cord. More prisoners were afterward added, and all made to stay the night in the
church at Campenhout. Next day, the 28th, this group, then consisting of about 1,000 men, women
and children, was taken back to Louvain. The houses along the road were burning and many dead
bodies of civilians, men and women, were seen on the way. Some of the principal streets in
Louvain had by that time been burned out. The prisoners were placed in a large building on
the cavalry exercise ground--"One woman went mad, some children died, others were born." On
the 29th the prisoners were marched along the Malines road, and at Herent the women and children
and men over 40 were allowed to go; the others were taken to Boort Meerbeek, 15 kilometers
from Malines, and told to march straight to Malines or be shot. At 11 P.M. they reached the
fort of Waelhem and were at first fired on by the sentries, but on calling out they were Belgians
were allowed to pass. These prisoners were practically without food from early morning on the
26th until midnight on the 29th. Of the corpses seen on the road, some had their hands tied
behind their backs, others were burned, some had been killed by blows, and some corpses were
those of children who had been shot.

Another witness, a man of independent means, was arrested at noon by the soldiers of the One
Hundred and Sixty-fifth Regiment and taken to the Place de la Station. He was grossly ill-treated
on the way and robbed by an officer of his purse and keys. His hands were tied behind his back.
His wife was kept a prisoner at the other side of the station. He was then made to march with
about 500 other prisoners until midnight, slept in the rain that night, and next day, having
had no food since leaving Louvain, was taken to the church in Rotselaer, where there were then
about 1,500 prisoners confined, including some infants. No food was given, only some water.
Next day they were taken through Wespelaer and back to Louvain. On the way from Rotselaer to
Wespelaer fifty bodies were seen, some naked and carbonized and unrecognizable. When they arrived
at Louvain the Fish Market, the Place Marguerite, the cathedral, and many other buildings were
on fire. In the evening about 100 men, women, and children were put in horse trucks from which
the dung had not been removed, and at 6 the next morning left for Cologne.

The wife of this witness was also taken prisoner with her husband and her maid, but was separated
from him, and she saw other ladies made to walk before the soldiers with their hands above
their heads. One, an old lady of 85, (name given,) was dragged from her cellar and taken with
them to the station. They were kept there all night, but set free in the morning, Thursday,
but shortly afterward sent to Tirlemont on foot. A number of corpses were seen on the way.
The prisoners, of whom there are said to have been thousands, were not allowed even to have
water to drink, although there were streams on the way from which the soldiers drank. Witness
was given some milk at a farm, but as she raised it to her lips it was taken away from her.

A priest was taken on Friday morning Aug. 28, and placed at the head of a number of refugees
from Wygmael. He was led through Louvain, abused and ill-treated, and placed with some thousands
of other people in the riding school in the Rue du Manège. The glass roof broke in the night
from the heat of burning buildings around. Next day the prisoners were marched through the
country with an armed guard. Burned farms and burned corpses were seen on the way. The prisoners
were finally separated into three groups, and the younger men marched through Herent and Bueken
to Campenhout, and ultimately reached the Belgian lines about midnight on Saturday, Aug. 29.
All the houses in Herent, a village of about 5,000 inhabitants, had been burned.

The massacre of civilians at Louvain was not confined to its citizens. Large crowds of people
were brought into Louvain from the surrounding districts, not only from Aerschot and Gelrode
as above mentioned, but also from other places. For example, a witness describes how many women
and children were taken in carts to Louvain, and there placed in a stable. Of the hundreds
of people thus taken from the various villages and brought to Louvain as prisoners, some were
massacred there, others were forced to march along with citizens of Louvain through various
places, some being ultimately sent on the 29th to the Belgian lines at Malines, others were
taken in trucks to Cologne as described below, others were released. An account of the massacre
of some of these unfortunate civilian prisoners given by two witnesses may be quoted:

     "We were all placed in Station Street, Louvain, and the German
     soldiers fired upon us. I saw the corpses of some women in the
     street. I fell down, and a woman who had been shot fell on top
     of me. I did not dare to look at the dead bodies in the
     street, there were so many of them. All of them had been shot
     by the German soldiers. One woman whom I saw lying dead in the
     street was a Miss J., about 35. I also saw the body of A.M.,
     (a woman.) She had been shot. I saw an officer pull her corpse
     underneath a wagon."

Another witness, who was taken from Aerschot, also describes the occurrence:

     "I was afterward taken with a large number of other civilians
     and placed in the church at Louvain. Then we were taken to
     Station Street, Louvain. There were about 1,500 civilians of
     both sexes, and we had been marched from Aerschot to Louvain.
     When we were in Station Street I felt that something was about
     to happen, and I tried to shelter in a doorway. The German
     soldiers then fired a mitrailleuse and their rifles upon the
     people, and the people fell on all sides. Two men next to me
     were killed. I afterward saw some one give a signal, and the
     firing ceased. I then ran away with a married woman named B.,
     (whose maiden name was A.M.,) aged 29, who belonged to
     Aerschot, but we were again captured. She was shot by the side
     of me, and I saw her fall. Several other people were shot at
     the same time. I again ran away, and in my flight saw children
     falling out of their mothers' arms. I cannot say whether they
     were shot, or whether they fell from their mothers' arms in
     the great panic which ensued. I, however, saw children
     bleeding."

JOURNEY TO COLOGNE.

The greatest number of prisoners from Louvain, however, were assembled at the station and taken
by trains to Cologne. Several witnesses describe their sufferings and the ill-treatment they
received on the journey. One of the first trains started in the afternoon. It consisted of
cattle trucks, about 100 being in each truck. It took three days to get to Cologne. The prisoners
had nothing to eat but a few biscuits each, and they were not allowed to get out for water
and none was given. On a wagon the words "Civilians who shot at the soldiers at Louvain" were
written. Some were marched through Cologne afterward for the people to see. Ropes were put
about the necks of some and they were told they would be hanged. An order then came that they
were to be shot instead of hanged. A firing squad was prepared and five or six prisoners were
put up, but were not shot. After being kept a week at Cologne some of these prisoners were
taken back--this time only thirty or forty in a truck--and allowed to go free on arriving at
Limburg. Several witnesses who were taken in other trains to Cologne describe their experiences
in detail. Some of the trucks were abominably filthy. Prisoners were not allowed to leave to
obey the calls of nature; one man who quitted the truck for the purpose was killed by a bayonet.
Describing what happened to another body of prisoners, a witness says that they were made to
cross Station Street, where the houses were burning, and taken to the station, placed in horse
trucks, crowded together, men, women, and children, in each wagon. They were kept at the station
during the night, and the following day left for Cologne. For two days and a half they were
without food, and then they received a loaf of bread among ten persons, and some water. The
prisoners were afterward taken back to Belgium. They were, in all, eight days in the train,
crowded and almost without food. Two of the men went mad. The women and children were separated
from the men at Brussels. The men were taken to a suburb and then to the villages of Herent,
Vilvorde, and Sempst, and afterward set at liberty.

This taking of the inhabitants, including some of the influential citizens, in groups and marching
them to various places, and in particular the sending of them to Malines and the dispatch of
great numbers to Cologne, must evidently have been done under the direction of the higher military
authorities. The ill-treatment of the prisoners was under the eyes and often by the direction
or with the sanction of officers, and officers themselves took part in it.

The object of taking many hundreds of prisoners to Cologne and back into Belgium is at first
sight difficult to understand. Possibly it is to be regarded as part of the policy of punishment
for Belgian resistance and general terrorization of the inhabitants--possibly as a desire to
show these people to the population of a German city and thus to confirm the belief that the
Belgians had shot at their troops.

Whatever may have been the case when the burning began on the evening of the 25th, it appears
clear that the subsequent destruction and outrages were done with a set purpose. It was not
until the 26th that the library, and other university buildings, the Church of St. Peter and
many houses were set on fire. It is to be noticed that cases occur in the depositions in which
humane acts by individual officers and soldiers are mentioned, or in which officers are said
to have expressed regret at being obliged to carry out orders for cruel action against the
civilians. Similarly, we find entries in diaries which reveal a genuine pity for the population
and disgust at the conduct of the army. It appears that a German non-commissioned officer stated
definitely that he "was acting under orders and executing them with great unwillingness." A
commissioned officer on being asked at Louvain by a witness--a highly educated man--about the
horrible acts committed by the soldiers, said he "was merely executing orders," and that he
himself would be shot if he did not execute them. Others gave less credible excuses, one stating
that the inhabitants of Louvain had burned the city themselves because they did not wish to
supply food and quarters for the German Army. It was to the discipline rather than the want
of discipline in the army that these outrages, which we are obliged to describe as systematic,
were due, and the special official notices posted on certain houses that they were not to be
destroyed show the fate which had been decreed for the others which were not so marked.

We are driven to the conclusion that the harrying of the villages in the district, the burning
of a large part of Louvain, the massacres there, the marching out of the prisoners, and the
transport to Cologne, (all done without inquiry as to whether the particular persons seized
or killed had committed any wrongful act,) were due to a calculated policy carried out scientifically
and deliberately, not merely with the sanction but under the direction of higher military authorities,
and were not due to any provocation or resistance by the civilian population.

TERMONDE.

To understand the depositions describing what happened at Termonde it is necessary to remember
that the German Army occupied the town on two occasions, the first, from Friday, Sept. 4, to
Sunday, Sept. 6, and again later in the month, about the 16th. The civilians had delivered
up their arms a fortnight before the arrival of the Germans.

Early in the month, probably about the 4th, a witness saw two civilians murdered by Uhlans.
Another witness saw their dead bodies, which remained in the street for ten days. Two hundred
civilians were utilized as a screen by the German troops about this date.

On the 5th the town was partially burned. One witness was taken prisoner in the street by some
German soldiers, together with several other civilians. At about 12 o'clock some of the tallest
and strongest men among the prisoners were picked out to go around the streets with paraffin.
Three or four carts containing paraffin tanks were brought up, and a syringe was used to put
paraffin on to the houses, which were then fired. The process of destruction began with the
houses of rich people, and afterward the houses of the poorer classes were treated in the same
manner. German soldiers had previously told this witness that if the Burgomaster of Termonde,
who was out of town, did not return by 12 o'clock that day the town would be set on fire. The
firing of the town was in consequence of his failure to return. The prisoners were afterward
taken to a factory and searched for weapons. They were subsequently provided with passports
enabling them to go anywhere in the town, but not outside. The witness in question managed
to effect his escape by swimming across the river.

Another witness describes how the tower of the Church of Termonde St. Gilles was utilized by
the Belgian troops for offensive purposes. They had in fact mounted a machine gun there. This
witness was subsequently taken prisoner in a cellar in Termonde in which he had taken refuge
with other people. All the men were taken from the cellar and the women were left behind. About
seventy prisoners in all were taken; one, a brewer who could not walk fast enough, was wounded
with a bayonet. He fell down and was compelled to get up and follow the soldiers. The prisoners
had to hold up their hands, and if they dropped their hands they were struck on the back with
the butt end of rifles. They were taken to Lebbeke, where there were in all 300 prisoners,
and there they were locked up in the church for three days and with scarcely any food.

A witness living at Baesrode was taken prisoner with 250 others and kept all night in a field.
The prisoners were released on the following morning. This witness saw three corpses of civilians,
and says that the Germans on Sunday, the 6th, plundered and destroyed the houses of those who
had fled. The Germans left on the following day, taking about thirty men with them, one a man
of 72 years of age.

Later in the month civilians were again used as a screen, and there is evidence of other acts
of outrage.

ALOST.

Alost was the scene of fighting between the Belgian and German Armies during the whole of the
latter part of the month of September. In connection with the fighting numerous cruelties appear
to have been perpetrated by the German troops.

On Saturday, Sept. 11, a weaver was bayoneted in the street. Another civilian was shot dead
at his door on the same night. On the following day the witness was taken prisoner together
with thirty others. The money of the prisoners was confiscated, and they were subsequently
used as a screen for the German troops who were at that moment engaged in a conflict with the
Belgian Army in the town itself. The Germans burned a number of houses at this time. Corpses
of 14 civilians were seen in the streets on this occasion.

A well-educated witness, who visited the Wetteren Hospital shortly after this date, saw the
dead bodies of a number of civilians belonging to Alost, and other civilians wounded. One of
these stated that he took refuge in the house of his sister-in-law; that the Germans dragged
the people out of the house, which was on fire, seized him, threw him on the ground, and hit
him on the head with the butt end of a rifle, and ran him through the thigh with a bayonet.
They then placed him with seventeen or eighteen others in front of the German troops, threatening
them with revolvers. They said that they were going to make the people of Alost pay for the
losses sustained by the Germans. At this hospital was an old woman of 80 completely transfixed
by a bayonet.

Other crimes on noncombatants at Alost belong to the end of the month of September. Many witnesses
speak to the murder of harmless civilians.

In Binnenstraat the Germans broke open the windows of the houses and threw fluid inside, and
the houses burst into flames. Some of the inhabitants were burned to death.

The civilians were utilized on Saturday, Sept. 26, as a screen. During their retreat the Germans
fired twelve houses in Rue des Trois Clefs, and three civilians, whose names are given, were
shot dead in that street after the firing of the houses. On the following day a heap of nine
dead civilians were lying in the Rue de l'Argent.

Similar outrages occurred at Erpe, a village a few miles from Alost, about the same date. The
village was deliberately burned. The houses were plundered and some civilians were murdered.

Civilians were apparently used as a screen at Erpe, but they were prisoners taken from Alost
and not dwellers in that village.

DIARIES OF GERMAN SOLDIERS.

This disregard for the lives of civilians is strikingly shown in extracts from German soldiers'
diaries, of which the following are representative examples.

Barthel, who was a Sergeant and standard bearer of the Second Company of the First Guards Regiment
of Foot, and who during the campaign received the Iron Cross, says, under date Aug. 10, 1914:

     "A transport of 300 Belgians came through Duisburg in the
     morning. Of these, eighty, including the Oberburgomaster, were
     shot according to martial law."

Matbern of the Fourth Company of Jägers, No. 11, from Marburg, states that at a village between
Birnal and Dinant on Sunday, Aug. 23, the Pioneers and Infantry Regiment One Hundred and Seventy-eight
were fired upon by the inhabitants. He gives no particulars beyond this. He continues:

     "About 220 inhabitants were shot, and the village was burned.
     Artillery is continuously shooting--the village lies in a
     large ravine. Just now, 6 o'clock in the afternoon, the
     crossing of the Meuse begins near Dinant. All villages,
     châteaux and houses are burned down during the night. It is a
     beautiful sight to see the fires all around us in the
     distance."

Bombardier Wetzel of the Second Mounted Battery, First Kurhessian Field Artillery Regiment,
No. 11, records an incident which happened in French territory near Lille on Oct. 11: "We had
no fight, but we caught about twenty men and shot them." By this time killing not in a fight
would seem to have passed into a habit.

Diary No. 32 gives an accurate picture of what took place in Louvain:

     "What a sad scene--all the houses surrounding the railway
     station completely destroyed--only some foundation walls still
     standing. On the station square captured guns. At the end of a
     main street there is the Council Hall which has been
     completely preserved with all its beautiful turrets; a sharp
     contrast: 180 inhabitants are stated to have been shot after
     they had dug their own graves."

The last and most important entry is that contained in Diary No. 19. This is a blue book interleaved
with blotting paper, and contains no name and address; there is, however, one circumstance
which makes it possible to speak with certainty as to the regiment of the writer. He gives
the names of First Lieutenant von Oppen, Count Eulenburg, Captain von Roeder, First Lieutenant
von Bock und Polach, Second Lieutenant Count Hardenberg, and Lieutenant Engelbrecht. A perusal
of the Prussian Army list of June, 1914, shows that all these officers, with the exception
of Lieutenant Engelbrecht, belonged to the First Regiment of Foot Guards. On Aug. 24, 1914,
the writer was in Ermeton. The exact translation of the extract, grim in its brevity, is as
follows:

     "24.8.14. We took about 1,000 prisoners: at least 500 were
     shot. The village was burned because inhabitants had also
     shot. Two civilians were shot at once."

We may now sum up and endeavor to explain the character and significance of the wrongful acts
done by the German Army in Belgium.

If a line is drawn on a map from the Belgian frontier to Liège and continued to Charleroi,
and a second line drawn from Liège to Malines, a sort of figure resembling an irregular Y will
be formed. It is along this Y that most of the systematic (as opposed to isolated) outrages
were committed. If the period from Aug. 4 to Aug. 30 is taken it will be found to cover most
of these organized outrages. Termonde and Alost extend, it is true, beyond the Y lines, and
they belong to the month of September. Murder, rape, arson, and pillage began from the moment
when the German Army crossed the frontier. For the first fortnight of the war the towns and
villages near Liège were the chief sufferers. From Aug. 19 to the end of the month, outrages
spread in the directions of Charleroi and Malines and reach their period of greatest intensity.
There is a certain significance in the fact that the outrages around Liège coincide with the
unexpected resistance of the Belgian Army in that district, and that the slaughter which reigned
from Aug. 19 to the end of the month is contemporaneous with the period when the German Army's
need for a quick passage through Belgium at all costs was deemed imperative.

Here let a distinction be drawn between two classes of outrages.

Individual acts of brutality--ill-treatment of civilians, rape, plunder, and the like--were
very widely committed. These are more numerous and more shocking than would be expected in
warfare between civilized powers, but they differ rather in extent than in kind from what has
happened in previous though not recent wars.

In all wars many shocking and outrageous acts must be expected, for in every large army there
must be a proportion of men of criminal instincts whose worst passions are unloosed by the
immunity which the conditions of warfare afford. Drunkenness, moreover, may turn even a soldier
who has no criminal habits into a brute, who may commit outrages at which he would himself
be shocked in his sober moments, and there is evidence that intoxication was extremely prevalent
among the German Army, both in Belgium and in France, for plenty of wine was to be found in
the villages and country houses which were pillaged. Many of the worst outrages appear to have
been perpetrated by men under the influence of drink. Unfortunately, little seems to have been
done to repress this source of danger.

In the present war, however--and this is the gravest charge against the German Army--the evidence
shows that the killing of noncombatants was carried out to an extent for which no previous
war between nations claiming to be civilized, (for such cases as the atrocities perpetrated
by the Turks on the Bulgarian Christians in 1876, and on the Armenian Christians in 1895 and
1896, do not belong to that category,) furnishes any precedent. That this killing was done
as part of a deliberate plan is clear from the facts hereinbefore set forth regarding Louvain,
Aerschot, Dinant, and other towns. The killing was done under orders in each place. It began
at a certain fixed date, and stopped, (with some few exceptions,) at another fixed date. Some
of the officers who carried out the work did it reluctantly, and said they were obeying directions
from their chiefs. The same remarks apply to the destruction of property. House burning was
part of the program; and villages, even large parts of a city, were given to the flames as
part of the terrorizing policy.

Citizens of neutral States who visited Belgium in December and January report that the German
authorities do not deny that noncombatants were systematically killed in large numbers during
the first weeks of the invasion, and this, so far as we know, has never been officially denied.
If it were denied, the flight and continued voluntary exile of thousands of Belgian refugees
would go far to contradict a denial, for there is no historical parallel in modern times for
the flight of a large part of a nation before an invader.

The German Government have, however, sought to justify their severities on the grounds of military
necessity, and have excused them as retaliation for cases in which civilians fired on German
troops. There may have been cases in which such firing occurred, but no proof has ever been
given, or, to our knowledge, attempted to be given, of such cases, nor of the stories of shocking
outrages perpetrated by Belgian men and women on German soldiers.

The inherent improbability of the German contention is shown by the fact that after the first
few days of the invasion every possible precaution had been taken by the Belgian authorities,
by way of placards and handbills, to warn the civilian population not to intervene in hostilities.
Throughout Belgium steps had been taken to secure the handing over of all firearms in the possession
of civilians before the German Army arrived. These steps were sometimes taken by the police
and sometimes by the military authorities.

The invaders appear to have proceeded upon the theory that any chance shot coming from an unexpected
place was fired by civilians. One favorite form of this allegation was that priests had fired
from the church tower. In many instances the soldiers of the allied armies used church towers
and private houses as cover for their operations. At Aerschot, where the Belgian soldiers were
stationed in the church tower and fired upon the Germans as they advanced, it was at once alleged
by the Germans when they entered the town, and with difficulty disproved, that the firing had
come from civilians. Thus one elementary error creeps at once into the German argument, for
they were likely to confound, and did in some instances certainly confound, legitimate military
operations with the hostile intervention of civilians.

Troops belonging to the same army often fire by mistake upon each other. That the German Army
was no exception to this rule is proved not only by many Belgian witnesses, but by the most
irrefragable kind of evidence--the admission of German soldiers themselves, recorded in their
war diaries. Thus Otto Clepp, Second Company of the Reserve, says, under date of Aug. 22: "Three
A.M. Two infantry regiments shot at each other--9 dead and 50 wounded--fault not yet ascertained."
In this connection the diaries of Kurt Hoffman and a soldier of the 112th Regiment, (Diary
No. 14,) will repay study. In such cases the obvious interest of the soldier is to conceal
his mistake, and a convenient method of doing so is to raise the cry of "francs-tireurs!"

Doubtless the German soldiers often believed that the civilian population, naturally hostile,
had, in fact, attacked them. This attitude of mind may have been fostered by the German authorities
themselves before the troops passed the frontier, and thereafter stories of alleged atrocities
committed by Belgians upon Germans, such as the myth referred to in one of the diaries relating
to Liège, were circulated among the troops and roused their anger.

The diary of Barthel, when still in Germany on Aug. 10, shows that he believed that the Oberburgomaster
of Liège had murdered a Surgeon General. The fact is that no violence was inflicted on the
inhabitants at Liège until the 19th, and no one who studies these pages can have any doubt
that Liège would immediately have been given over to murder and destruction if any such incident
had occurred.

Letters written to their homes which have been found on the bodies of dead Germans bear witness,
in a way that now sounds pathetic, to the kindness with which they were received by the civil
population. Their evident surprise at this reception was due to the stories which had been
dinned into their ears of soldiers with their eyes gouged out, treacherous murders, and poisoned
food--stories which may have been encouraged by the higher military authorities in order to
impress the mind of the troops, as well as for the sake of justifying the measures which they
took to terrify the civil population. If there is any truth in such stories, no attempt has
been made to establish it.

No evidence whatever seems to have been adduced to prove these tales, and though there may
be cases in which individual Belgians fired on the Germans, the statement that "the whole civilian
population of Belgium was called out" is utterly opposed to the fact.

An invading army may be entitled to shoot at sight a civilian caught redhanded, or any one
who, though not caught redhanded, is proved guilty on inquiry. But this was not the practice
followed by the German troops. They do not seem to have made any inquiry. They seized the civilians
of the villages indiscriminately and killed them, or such as they selected from among them,
without the least regard to guilt or innocence. The mere cry, "Civilisten haben geschossen!"
was enough to hand over a whole village or district, and even outlying places, to ruthless
slaughter.

We gladly record the instances where the evidence shows that humanity had not wholly disappeared
from some members of the German Army, and that they realized that the responsible heads of
that organization were employing them not in war, but in butchery: "I am merely executing orders,
and I should be shot if I did not execute them," said an officer to a witness at Louvain. At
Brussels another officer says: "I have not done one-hundredth part of what we have been ordered
to do by the high German military authorities."

As we have already observed, it would be unjust to charge upon the German Army generally acts
of cruelty which, whether due to drunkenness or not, were done by men of brutal instincts and
unbridled passions. Such crimes were sometimes punished by the officers. They were in some
cases offset by acts of humanity and kindliness. But when an army is directed or permitted
to kill noncombatants on a large scale the ferocity of the worst natures springs into fuller
life, and both lust and the thirst of blood become more widespread and more formidable. Had
less license been allowed to the soldiers and had they not been set to work to slaughter civilians
there would have been fewer of those painful cases in which a depraved and morbid cruelty appears.

Two classes of murders in particular require special mention because one of them is almost
new and the other altogether unprecedented. The former is the seizure of peaceful citizens
as so-called hostages, to be kept as a pledge for the conduct of the civil population or as
a means to secure some military advantage or to compel the payment of a contribution, the hostages
being shot if the condition imposed by the arbitrary will of the invader is not fulfilled.
Such hostage-taking, with the penalty of death attached, has now and then happened, the most
notable case being the shooting of the Archbishop of Paris and some of his clergy by the Communards
of Paris in 1871, but it is opposed both to the rules of war and to every principle of justice
and humanity. The latter kind of murder is the killing of the innocent inhabitants of a village
because shots have been fired, or are alleged to have been fired, on the troops by some one
in the village. For this practice no previous example and no justification have been or can
be pleaded. Soldiers suppressing an insurrection may have sometimes slain civilians mingled
with insurgents, and Napoleon's forces in Spain are said to have now and then killed promiscuously
when trying to clear guerrillas out of a village. But in Belgium large bodies of men, sometimes
including the Burgomaster and the priest, were seized, marched by officers to a spot chosen
for the purpose, and there shot in cold blood, without any attempt at trial or even inquiry,
under the pretense of inflicting punishment upon the village, though these unhappy victims
were not even charged with having themselves committed any wrongful act, and though, in some
cases at least, the village authorities had done all in their power to prevent any molestation
of the invading force. Such acts are no part of war, for innocence is entitled to respect even
in war. They are mere murders, just as the drowning of the innocent passengers and crews on
a merchant ship is murder and not an act of war.

That these acts should have been perpetrated on the peaceful population of an unoffending country
which was not at war with its invaders, but merely defending its own neutrality, guaranteed
by the invading power, may excite amazement and even incredulity. It was with amazement and
almost with incredulity that the committee first read the depositions relating to such acts.
But when the evidence regarding Liège was followed by that regarding Aerschot, Louvain, Andenne,
Dinant, and the other towns and villages, the cumulative effect of such a mass of concurrent
testimony became irresistible, and we were driven to the conclusion that the things described
had really happened. The question then arose, how they could have happened. Not from mere military
license, for the discipline of the German Army is proverbially stringent, and its obedience
implicit. Not from any special ferocity of the troops, for whoever has traveled among the German
peasantry knows that they are as kindly and good-natured as any people in Europe, and those
who can recall the war of 1870 will remember that no charges resembling those proved by these
depositions were then established. The excesses recently committed in Belgium were, moreover
too widespread and too uniform in their character to be mere sporadic outbursts of passion
or rapacity.

The explanation seems to be that these excesses were committed--in some cases ordered, in others
allowed--on a system and in pursuance of a set purpose. That purpose was to strike terror into
the civil population and dishearten the Belgian troops, so as to crush down resistance and
extinguish the very spirit of self-defense. The pretext that civilians had fired upon the invading
troops was used to justify not merely the shooting of individual francs-tireurs, but the murder
of large numbers of innocent civilians, an act absolutely forbidden by the rules of civilized
warfare.[A]

[Footnote A: As to this, see, in appendix, the Rules of The Hague Convention of 1907, to which
Germany was a signatory.]

In the minds of Prussian officers war seems to have become a sort of sacred mission, one of
the highest functions of the omnipotent State, which is itself as much an army as a State.
Ordinary morality and the ordinary sentiment of pity vanish in its presence, superseded by
a new standard, which justifies to the soldier every means that can conduce to success, however
shocking to a natural sense of justice and humanity, however revolting to his own feelings.
The spirit of war is deified. Obedience to the State and its war lord leaves no room for any
other duty or feeling. Cruelty becomes legitimate when it promises victory. Proclaimed by the
heads of the army, this doctrine would seem to have permeated the officers and affected even
the private soldiers, leading them to justify the killing of noncombatants as an act of war,
and so accustoming them to slaughter that even women and children become at last the victims.
It cannot be supposed to be a national doctrine, for it neither springs from nor reflects the
mind and feelings of the German people as they have heretofore been known to other nations.
It is a specifically military doctrine, the outcome of a theory held by a ruling caste who
have brooded and thought, written and talked, and dreamed about war until they have fallen
under its obsession and been hypnotized by its spirit.

The doctrine is plainly set forth in the German Official Monograph on the usages of war on
land, issued under the direction of the German Staff. This book is pervaded throughout by the
view that whatever military needs suggest becomes thereby lawful, and upon this principle,
as the diaries show, the German officers acted.[A]

[Footnote A: "Kriegsbrauch im Landkriege," Berlin, 1902, in Vol. VI., in the series entitled
"Kriegsgeschichtliche Einzelschriften," published in 1905. A translation of this monograph,
by Professor J.H. Morgan, has recently been published.]

If this explanation be the true one, the mystery is solved, and that which seemed scarcely
credible becomes more intelligible, though not less pernicious. This is not the only case that
history records in which a false theory, disguising itself as loyalty to a State or to a Church,
has perverted the conception of duty and become a source of danger to the world.

PART II.

Having thus narrated the offenses committed in Belgium, which it has been proper to consider
as a whole, we now turn to another branch of the subject, the breaches of the usages of war
which appear in the conduct of the German Army generally.

This branch has been considered under the following heads:

     First.--The treatment of noncombatants, whether in Belgium or
     in France, including--

     (a) The killing of noncombatants in France;

     (b) The treatment of women and children;

     (c) The using of innocent noncombatants as a screen or shield
     in the conduct of military operations;

     (d) Looting, burning, and the wanton destruction of property.

     Second.--Offenses committed in the course of ordinary military
     operations which violate the usages of war and the provisions
     of The Hague Convention.

     This division includes:

     (a) Killing of wounded or prisoners;

     (b) Firing on hospitals or on the Red Cross ambulances and
     stretcher bearers;

     (c) Abuse of the Red Cross or of the white flag.

TREATMENT OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.

(a) Killing of Noncombatants.

The killing of civilians in Belgium has been already described sufficiently. Outrages on the
civilian population of the invaded districts, the burning of villages, the shooting of innocent
inhabitants, and the taking of hostages, pillage, and destruction continued as the German armies
passed into France. The diary of the Saxon officer above referred to describes acts of this
kind committed by the German soldiers in advancing to the Aisne at the end of August and after
they had passed the French frontier, as well as when they were in Belgian territory.

A proclamation, (a specimen of which was produced to the committee,) issued at Rheims and placarded
over the town, affords a clear illustration of the methods adopted by the German Higher Command.
The population of Rheims is warned that on the slightest disturbance part or the whole of the
city will be burned to the ground and all the hostages taken from the city (a long list of
whom is given in the proclamation) immediately shot.

The evidence, however, submitted to the committee with regard to the conduct of the German
Army in France is not nearly so full as that with regard to Belgium. There is no body of civilian
refugees in England, and the French witnesses have generally laid their evidence before their
own Government. The evidence forwarded to us consists principally of the statements of British
officers and soldiers who took part in the retreat after the battle of Mons and in the subsequent
advance, following the Germans from the Marne. The area covered is relatively small, and it
is from French reports that any complete account of what occurred in the invaded districts
in France as a whole must be obtained.

Naturally, soldiers in a foreign country, with which they were unacquainted, cannot be expected
always to give accurately the names of villages through which they passed on their marches,
but this does not prevent their evidence from being definite as to what they actually saw in
the farms and houses where the German troops had recently been. Many shocking outrages are
recorded. Three examples may here suffice; others are given in the appendix. A Sergeant who
had been through the retreat from Mons and then taken part in the advance from the Marne, and
who had been engaged in driving out some German troops from a village, states that his troop
halted outside a bakery just inside the village. It was a private house where baking was done,
"not like our bakeries here." Two or three women were standing at the door. The women motioned
them to come into the house, as did also three civilian Frenchmen who were there. They took
them into a garden at the back of the house. At the end of the garden was the bakery. They
saw two old men between 60 and 70 years of age and one old woman lying close to each other
in the garden. All three had the scalps cut right through and the brains were hanging out.
They were still bleeding. Apparently they had only just been killed. The three French civilians
belonged to this same house. One of them spoke a few words of English. He gave them to understand
that these three had been killed by the Germans because they had refused to bake bread for them.

Another witness states that two German soldiers took hold of a young civilian named D. and
bound his hands behind his back, and struck him in the face with their fists. They then tied
his hands in front and fastened the cord to the tail of the horse. The horse dragged him for
about fifty yards, and then the Germans loosened his hands and left him. The whole of his face
was cut and torn, and his arms and legs were bruised. On the following day one of his sisters,
whose husband was a soldier, came to their house with her four children. His brother, who was
also married and who lived in a village near Valenciennes, went to fetch the bread for his
sister. On the way back to their house he met a patrol of Uhlans, who took him to the market
place at Valenciennes, and then shot him. About twelve other civilians were also shot in the
market place. The Uhlans then burned nineteen houses in the village, and afterward burned the
corpses of the civilians, including that of his brother. His father and his uncle afterward
went to see the dead body of his brother, but the German soldiers refused to allow them to pass.

A lance corporal in the Rifles, who was on patrol duty with five privates during the retirement
of the Germans after the Marne, states that they entered a house in a small village and took
ten Uhlans prisoners, and then searched the house and found two women and two children. One
was dead, but the body not yet cold. The left arm had been cut off just below the elbow. The
floor was covered with blood. The woman's clothing was disarranged. The other woman was alive
but unconscious. Her right leg had been cut off above the knee. There were two little children,
a boy about 4 or 5 and a girl of about 6 or 7. The boy's left hand was cut off at the wrist
and the girl's right hand at the same place. They were both quite dead. The same witness states
that he saw several women and children lying dead in various other places, but says he could
not say whether this might not have been accidentally caused in legitimate fighting.

The evidence before us proves that in the parts of France referred to murder of unoffending
civilians and other acts of cruelty, including aggravated cases of rape, carried out under
threat of death, and sometimes actually followed by murder of the victim, were committed by
some of the German troops.

(b) The Treatment of Women and Children.

The evidence shows that the German authorities, when carrying out a policy of systematic arson
and plunder in selected districts, usually drew some distinction between the adult male population
on the one hand and the women and children on the other. It was a frequent practice to set
apart the adult males of the condemned district with a view to the execution of a suitable
number--preferably of the younger and more vigorous--and to reserve the women and children
for milder treatment. The depositions, however, present many instances of calculated cruelty,
often going the length of murder, toward the women and children of the condemned area. We have
already referred to the case of Aerschot, where the women and children were herded in a church
which had recently been used as a stable, detained for forty-eight hours with no food other
than coarse bread, and denied the common decencies of life. At Dinant sixty women and children
were confined in the cellar of a convent from Sunday morning till the following Friday, (Aug.
28,) sleeping on the ground, for there were no beds, with nothing to drink during the whole
period, and given no food until the Wednesday, "when somebody threw into the cellar two sticks
of macaroni and a carrot for each prisoner." In other cases the women and children were marched
for long distances along roads, (e.g., march of women from Louvain to Tirlemont, Aug. 28,)
the laggards pricked on by the attendant Uhlans. A lady complains of having been brutally kicked
by privates. Others were struck with the butt end of rifles. At Louvain, at Liège, at Aerschot,
at Malines, at Montigny, at Andenne, and elsewhere, there is evidence that the troops were
not restrained from drunkenness, and drunken soldiers cannot to be trusted to observe the rules
or decencies of war, least of all when they are called upon to execute a preordained plan of
arson and pillage. From the very first women were not safe. At Liège women and children were
chased about the streets by soldiers. A witness gives a story, very circumstantial in its details,
of how women were publicly raped in the market place of the city, five young German officers
assisting. At Aerschot men and women were deliberately shot when coming out of burning houses.
At Liège, Louvain, Sempst, and Malines women were burned to death, either because they were
surprised and stupefied by the fumes of the conflagration or because they were prevented from
escaping by German soldiers. Witnesses recount how a great crowd of men, women, and children
from Aerschot were marched to Louvain, and then suddenly exposed to a fire from a mitrailleuse
and rifles. Women and children suddenly turned out into the streets, and, compelled to witness
the destruction by fire of their homes, provided a sad spectacle to such as were sober enough
to see. A humane German officer, witnessing the ruin of Aerschot, exclaims in disgust: "I am
a father myself, and I cannot bear this. It is not war, but butchery." Officers as well as
men succumbed to the temptation of drink, with results which may be illustrated by an incident
which occurred at Campenhout. In this village there was a certain well-to-do merchant (name
given) who had a good cellar of champagne. On the afternoon of the 14th or 15th of August three
German cavalry officers entered the house and demanded champagne. Having drunk ten bottles
and invited five or six officers and three or four private soldiers to join them, they continued
their carouse, and then called for the master and mistress of the house.

     "Immediately my mistress came in," says the valet de chambre,
     "one of the officers who was sitting on the floor got up, and,
     putting a revolver to my mistress temple, shot her dead. The
     officer was obviously drunk. The other officers continued to
     drink and sing, and they did not pay great attention to the
     killing of my mistress. The officer who shot my mistress then
     told my master to dig a grave and bury my mistress. My master
     and the officer went into the garden, the officer threatening
     my master with a pistol. My master was then forced to dig the
     grave and to bury the body of my mistress in it. I cannot say
     for what reason they killed my mistress. The officer who did
     it was singing all the time."

In the evidence before us there are cases tending to show that aggravated crimes against women
were sometimes severely punished. One witness reports that a young girl who was being pursued
by a drunken soldier at Louvain appealed to a German officer, and that the offender was then
and there shot. Another describes how an officer of the Thirty-second Regiment of the Line
was led out to execution for the violation of two young girls, but reprieved at the request
or with the consent of the girls' mother. These instances are sufficient to show that the maltreatment
of women was no part of the military scheme of the invaders, however much it may appear to
have been the inevitable result of the system of terror deliberately adopted in certain regions.
Indeed, so much is avowed. "I asked the commander why we had been spared," says a lady in Louvain,
who deposes to having suffered much brutal treatment during the sack. He said: "We will not
hurt you any more. Stay in Louvain. All is finished." It was Saturday, Aug. 29, and the reign
of terror was over.

Apart from the crimes committed in special areas and belonging to a scheme of systematic reprisals
for the alleged shooting by civilians, there is evidence of offenses committed against women
and children by individual soldiers, or by small groups of soldiers, both in the advance through
Belgium and France as in the retreat from the Marne. Indeed, the discipline appears to have
been loose during the retreat, and there is evidence as to the burning of villages and the
murder and violation of their female inhabitants during this episode of the war.

In this tale of horrors hideous forms of mutilation occur with some frequency in the depositions,
two of which may be connected in some instances with a perverted form of sexual instinct.

A third form of mutilation, the cutting of one or both hands, is frequently said to have taken
place. In some cases where this form of mutilation is alleged to have occurred it may be the
consequence of a cavalry charge up a village street, hacking and slashing at everything in
the way; in others the victim may possibly have held a weapon; in others the motive may have
been the theft of rings.

We find many well-established cases of the slaughter (often accompanied by mutilation) of whole
families, including not infrequently that of quite small children. In two cases it seems to
be clear that preparations were made to burn a family alive. These crimes were committed over
a period of many weeks and simultaneously in many places, and the authorities must have known,
or ought to have known, that cruelties of this character were being perpetrated; nor can any
one doubt that they could have been stopped by swift and decisive action on the part of the
heads of the German Army.

The use of women and even children as a screen for the protection of the German troops is referred
to in a later part of this report. From the number of troops concerned, it must have been commanded
or acquiesced in by officers, and in some cases the presence and connivance of officers is proved.

The cases of violation, sometimes under threat of death, are numerous and clearly proved. We
referred here to comparatively few out of the many that have been placed in the appendix, because
the circumstances are in most instances much the same. They were often accompanied with cruelty,
and the slaughter of women after violation is more than once credibly attested.

It is quite possible that in some cases where the body of a Belgian or a French woman is reported
as lying on the roadside pierced with bayonet wounds or hanging naked from a tree, or else
as lying gashed and mutilated in a cottage kitchen or bedroom, the woman in question gave some
provocation. She may by act or word have irritated her assailant and in certain instances evidence
has been supplied both as to the provocation offered and as to the retribution inflicted.

     (1) "Just before we got to Melen," says a witness who had
     fallen into the hands of the Germans on Aug. 5, "I saw a woman
     with a child in her arms standing on the side of the road on
     our left-hand side watching the soldiers go by. Her name was
     G., aged about 63, and a neighbor of mine. The officer asked
     the woman for some water in good French. She went inside her
     son's cottage to get some and brought it immediately he had
     stopped. The officer went into the cottage garden and drank
     the water. The woman then said, when she saw the prisoners,
     'Instead of giving you water you deserve to be shot.' The
     officer shouted to us, 'March.' We went on, and immediately I
     saw the officer draw his revolver and shoot the woman and
     child. One shot killed both."

     Two old men and one old woman refused to bake bread for the
     Germans. They were butchered.

     Aug. 23--I went with two friends (names given) to see what we
     could see. About three hours out of Malines we were taken
     prisoners by a German patrol--an officer and six men--and
     marched off into a little wood of saplings, where there was a
     house. The officer spoke Flemish. He knocked at the door; the
     peasant did not come. The officer ordered the soldiers to
     break down the door, which two of them did. The peasant came
     and asked what they were doing. The officer said he did not
     come quickly enough and that they had "trained up" plenty of
     others. His hands were tied behind his back, and he was
     shot at once without a moment's delay. The wife came out
     with a little sucking child. She put the child down and sprang
     at the Germans like a lioness. She clawed their faces. One of
     the Germans took a rifle and struck her a tremendous blow with
     the butt on the head. Another took his bayonet and fixed it
     and thrust it through the child. He then put his rifle on his
     shoulder with the child upon it; its little arms stretched out
     once or twice. The officers ordered the houses to be set on
     fire, and straw was obtained and it was done. The man and his
     wife and the child were thrown on the top of the straw. There
     were about forty other peasant prisoners there also, and the
     officer said: "I am doing this as a lesson and example to you.
     When a German tells you to do something next time you must
     move more quickly." The regiment of Germans was a regiment of
     Hussars, with crossbones and a death's head on the cap.

Can any one think that such acts as these, committed by women in the circumstances created
by the invasion of Belgium, were deserving of the extreme form of vengeance attested by these
and other depositions?

In considering the question of provocation it is pertinent to take into account the numerous
cases in which old women and very small children have been shot, bayoneted, and even mutilated.
Whatever excuse may be offered by the Germans for the killing of grown-up women, there can
be no possible defense for the murder of children, and if it can be shown that infants and
small children were not infrequently bayoneted and shot it is a fair inference that many of
the offenses against women require no explanation more recondite than the unbridled violence
of brutal or drunken criminals.

It is clearly shown that many offenses were committed against infants and quite young children.
On one occasion children were even roped together and used as a military screen against the
enemy; on another three soldiers went into action carrying small children to protect themselves
from flank fire. A shocking case of the murder of a baby by a drunken soldier at Malines is
thus recorded by one eyewitness and confirmed by another:

     "One day when the Germans were not actually bombarding the
     town I left my house to go to my mother's house in High
     Street. My husband was with me. I saw eight German soldiers,
     and they were drunk. They were singing and making a lot of
     noise and dancing about. As the German soldiers came along the
     street I saw a small child, whether boy or girl I could not
     see, come out of a house. The child was about two years of
     age. The child came into the middle of the street so as to be
     in the way of the soldiers. The soldiers were walking in twos.
     The first line of two passed the child. One of the second
     line, the man on the left, stepped aside and drove his bayonet
     with both hands into the child's stomach, lifting the child
     into the air on his bayonet and carrying it away on his
     bayonet, he and his comrades still singing. The child screamed
     when the soldier struck it with his bayonet but not
     afterward."

These, no doubt, were for the most part the acts of drunken soldiers, but an incident has been
recorded which discloses the fact that even sober and highly placed officers were not always
disposed to place a high value on child life. Thus the General, wishing to be conducted to
the Town Hall at Lebbeke, remarked in French to his guide, who was accompanied by a small boy:
"If you do not show me the right way I will shoot you and your boy." There was no need to carry
the threat into execution, but that the threat should have been made is significant.

We cannot tell whether these acts of cruelty to children were part of the scheme for inducing
submission by inspiring terror. In Louvain, where the system of terrorizing was carried to
the furthest limit, outrages on children were uncommon. The same, however, cannot be said of
some of the smaller villages which were subjected to the system. In Hofstade and Sempst, in
Haecht, Rotselaer, and Wespelaer, many children were murdered. Nor can it be said of the village
of Tamines, where three small children (whose names are given by an eye witness of the crime)
were slaughtered on the green for no apparent motive. It is difficult to imagine the motives
which may have prompted such acts. Whether or no Belgian civilians fired on German soldiers,
young children at any rate did not fire. The number and character of these murders constitute
the most distressing feature connected with the conduct of the war so far as it is revealed
in the depositions submitted to the committee.

(c) The Use of Civilians as Screens.

We have before us a considerable body of evidence with reference to the practice of the Germans
of using civilians and sometimes military prisoners as screens from behind which they could
fire upon the Belgian troops, in the hope that the Belgians would not return the fire for fear
of killing or wounding their own fellow-countrymen.

In some cases this evidence refers to places where fighting was actually going on in the streets
of a town or village, and to these cases we attach little importance. It might well happen
when terrified civilians were rushing about to seek safety that groups of them might be used
as a screen by either side of the combatants without any intention of inhumanity or of any
breach of the rules of civilized warfare. But, setting aside these doubtful cases, there remains
evidence which satisfies us that on so many occasions as to justify its being described as
a practice the German soldiers, under the eyes and by the direction of their officers, were
guilty of this act.

Thus, for instance, outside Fort Fléron, near Liège, men and children were marched in front
of the Germans to prevent the Belgian soldiers from firing.

The progress of the Germans through Mons was marked by many incidents of this character. Thus,
on Aug. 22 half a dozen Belgian colliers returning from work were marching in front of some
German troops who were pursuing the English, and in the opinion of the witnesses they must
have been placed there intentionally. An English officer describes how he caused a barricade
to be erected in a main thoroughfare leading out of Mons when the Germans, in order to reach
a crossroad in the rear, fetched civilians out of the houses on each side of the main road
and compelled them to hold up white flags and act as cover.

Another British officer who saw this incident is convinced that the Germans were acting deliberately
for the purpose of protecting themselves from the fire of the British troops. Apart from this
protection the Germans could not have advanced, as the street was straight and commanded by
the British rifle fire at a range of 700 or 800 yards. Several British soldiers also speak
to this incident, and their story is confirmed by a Flemish witness in a side street.

On Aug. 24 men, women, and children were actually pushed into the front of the German position
outside Mons. The witness speaks of 16 to 20 women, about a dozen children, and half a dozen
men being there.

Seven or eight women and five or six very young children were utilized in this way by some
Uhlans between Landrécies and Guise.

A Belgian soldier saw an incident of this character during the retreat from Namur.

At the battle of Malines 60 or 80 Belgian civilians, among whom were some women, were driven
before the German troops. Another witness saw a similar incident near Malines, but a much larger
number of civilians was involved, and a priest was in front with a white flag.

In another instance, related by a Belgian soldier, the civilians were tied by the wrists in groups.

At Eppeghem, where the Germans were driven back by the Belgian sortie from Antwerp, civilians
were used as a cover for the German retreat.

Near Malines, early in September, about 10 children, roped together, were driven in front of
a German force.

At Londerzeel 30 or 40 civilians, men, women, and children, were placed at the head of a German
column.

One witness from Termonde was made to stand in front of the Germans, together with others,
all with their hands above their heads. Those who allowed their hands to drop were at once
prodded with the bayonet. Again, at Termonde, about Sept. 10, a number of civilians were shot
by the Belgian soldiers, who were compelled to fire at the Germans, taking the risk of killing
their own countrymen.

At Tournai 400 Belgian civilians, men, women, and children, were placed in front of the Germans,
who then engaged the French.

The operations outside Antwerp were not free from incidents of this character. Near Willebroeck
some civilians, including a number of children, a woman, and one old man, were driven in front
of the German troops. German officers were present, and one woman who refused to advance was
stabbed twice with the bayonet, and a little child who ran up to her as she fell had half its
head blown away by a shot from a rifle.

Other incidents of the same kind are reported from Nazareth and Ypres. The British troops were
compelled to fire, in some cases at the risk of killing civilians.

At Ypres the Germans drove women in front of them by pricking them with bayonets. The wounds
were afterward seen by the witness.

(d) Looting, Burning, and Destruction of Property.

There is an overwhelming mass of evidence of the deliberate destruction of private property
by the German soldiers. The destruction in most cases was effected by fire, and the German
troops, as will be seen from earlier passages in the report, had been provided beforehand with
appliances for rapidly setting fire to houses. Among the appliances enumerated by witnesses
are syringes for squirting petrol, guns for throwing small inflammable bombs, and small pellets
made of inflammable material. Specimens of the last mentioned have been shown to members of
the committee. Besides burning houses, the Germans frequently smashed furniture and pictures;
they also broke in doors and windows. Frequently, too, they defiled houses by relieving the
wants of nature upon the floor. They also appear to have perpetrated the same vileness upon
piled up heaps of provisions so as to destroy what they could not themselves consume. They
also on numerous occasions threw corpses into wells, or left in them the bodies of persons
murdered by drowning.

In addition to these acts of destruction the German troops, both in Belgium and France, are
proved to have been guilty of persistent looting. In the majority of cases the looting took
place from houses, but there is also evidence that German soldiers and even officers robbed
their prisoners, both civil and military, of sums of money and other portable possessions.
It was apparently well known throughout the German Army that towns and villages would be burned
whenever it appeared that any civilians had fired upon the German troops, and there is reason
to suspect that this known intention of the German military authorities in some cases explains
the sequence of events which led up to the burning and sacking of a town or village. The soldiers,
knowing that they would have an opportunity of plunder if the place was condemned, had a motive
for arranging some incident which would provide the necessary excuse for condemnation. More
than one witness alleges that shots coming from the window of a house were fired by German
soldiers who had forced their way into the house for the purpose of thus creating an alarm.
It is also alleged that German soldiers on some occasions merely fired their rifles in the
air in a side street and then reported to their officers that they had been fired at. On the
report that firing had taken place orders were given for wholesale destruction, and houses
were destroyed in streets and districts where there was no allegation that firing had taken
place, as well as in those where the charge arose. That the destruction could have been limited
is proved by the care taken to preserve particular houses whose occupants had made themselves
in one way or another agreeable to the conquerors. These houses were marked in chalk, ordering
them to be spared, and spared they were.

The above statements have reference to the burning of towns and villages. In addition, the
German troops in numerous instances have set fire to farmhouses and farm buildings. Here, however,
the plea of military necessity can more safely be alleged. A farmhouse may afford convenient
shelter to an enemy, and where such use is probable it may be urged that the destruction of
the buildings is justifiable. It is clearly, however, the duty of the soldiers who destroy
the buildings to give reasonable warning to the occupants so that they may escape. Doubtless
this was in many cases done by the German commanders, but there is testimony that in some cases
the burning of the farmhouse was accompanied by the murder of the inhabitants.

The same fact stands out clearly in the more extensive burning of houses in towns and villages.
In some cases, indeed, as a prelude to the burning, inhabitants were cleared out of their houses
and driven along the streets, often with much accompanying brutality--some to a place of execution,
others to prolonged detention in a church or other public buildings. In other cases witnesses
assert that they saw German soldiers forcing back into the flames men, women, and children
who were trying to escape from the burning houses. There is also evidence that soldiers deliberately
shot down civilians as they fled from the fire.

The general conclusion is that the burning and destruction of property which took place was
only in a very small minority of cases justified by military necessity, and that even then
the destruction was seldom accompanied by that care for the lives of noncombatants which has
hitherto been expected from a military commander belonging to a civilized nation. On the contrary,
it is plain that in many cases German officers and soldiers deliberately added to the sufferings
of the unfortunate people whose property they were destroying.

OFFENSES AGAINST COMBATANTS.

(a) The Killing of the Wounded and of Prisoners.

In dealing with the treatment of the wounded and of prisoners and the cases in which the former
appear to have been killed when helpless, and the latter at, or after, the moment of capture,
we are met by some peculiar difficulties, because such acts may not in all cases be deliberate
and cold-blooded violations of the usages of war. Soldiers who are advancing over a spot where
the wounded have fallen may conceivably think that some of these lying prostrate are shamming
dead, or, at any rate, are so slightly wounded as to be able to attack or to fire from behind
when the advancing force has passed, and thus they may be led into killing those whom they
would otherwise have spared. There will also be instances in which men intoxicated with the
frenzy of battle slay even those whom on reflection they might have seen to be incapable of
further harming them. The same kind of fury may vent itself on persons who are already surrendering,
and even a soldier who is usually self-controlled or humane may, in the heat of the moment,
go on killing, especially in a general mêlée, those who were offering to surrender. This is
most likely to happen when such a soldier has been incensed by an act of treachery or is stirred
to revenge by the death of a comrade to whom he is attached. Some cases of this kind appear
in the evidence. Such things happen in a1l wars as isolated instances, and the circumstances
may be pleaded in extenuation of acts otherwise shocking. We have made due allowance for these
considerations and have rejected those cases in which there is a reasonable doubt as to whether
those who killed the wounded knew that the latter were completely disabled. Nevertheless, after
making all allowances, there remain certain instances in which it is clear that quarter was
refused to persons desiring to surrender when it ought to have been given, or that persons
already so wounded as to be incapable of fighting further were wantonly shot or bayoneted.

The cases to which references are given all present features generally similar, and in several
of them men who had been left wounded in the trenches when a trench was carried by the enemy
were found, when their comrades subsequently retook the trench, to have been slaughtered, although
evidently helpless, or else they would have escaped with the rest of the retreating force.
For instance, a witness says:

     "About Sept. 20 our regiment took part in an engagement with
     the Germans. After we had retired into our trenches, a few
     minutes after we got back into them, the Germans retired into
     their trenches. The distance between the trenches of the
     opposing forces was about 400 yards. I should say about fifty
     or sixty of our men had been left lying on the field from our
     trenches. After we got back to them I distinctly saw German
     soldiers come out of their trenches, go over the spots where
     our men were lying, and bayonet them. Some of our men were
     lying nearly half way between the trenches."

Another says:

     "The Germans advanced over the trenches of the headquarters
     trench, where I had been on guard for three days. When the
     Germans reached our wounded I saw their officer using his
     sword to cut them down."

Another witness says:

     "Outside Ypres we were in trenches and were attacked, and had
     to retire until reinforced by other companies of the Royal
     Fusiliers. Then we took the trenches and found the wounded,
     between twenty and thirty, lying in the trenches with bayonet
     wounds, and some shot. Most of them, say three-quarters, had
     their throats cut."

In one case, given very circumstantially, a witness tells how a party of wounded British soldiers
were left in a chalk pit, all very badly hurt, and quite unable to make resistance. One of
them, an officer, held up his handkerchief as a white flag, and this

     "attracted the attention of a party of about eight Germans.
     The Germans came to the edge of the pit. It was getting dusk,
     but the light was still good, and everything clearly
     discernible. One of them, who appeared to be carrying no arms
     and who, at any rate, had no rifle, came a few feet down the
     slope into the chalk pit, within eight or ten yards of some of
     the wounded men."

He looked at the men, laughed, and said something in German to the Germans who were waiting
on the edge of the pit. Immediately one of them fired at the officer, then three or four of
these ten soldiers were shot, then another officer and the witness, and the rest of them.

     "After an interval of some time I sat up and found that I was
     the only man of the ten who were living when the Germans came
     into the pit remaining alive and that all the rest were dead."

Another witness describes a painful case in which five soldiers, two Belgians and three French,
were tied to trees by German soldiers apparently drunk, who stuck knives in their faces, pricked
them with their bayonets, and ultimately shot them.

We have no evidence to show whether and in what cases orders proceeded from the officer in
command to give no quarter, but there are some instances in which persons obviously desiring
to surrender were, nevertheless, killed.

(b) Firing on Hospitals or on the Red Cross Ambulances or Stretcher Bearers.

This subject may conveniently be divided into three subdivisions, namely, firing on--

     (1) Hospital buildings and other Red Cross establishments.

     (2) Ambulances.

     (3) Stretcher bearers.

Under the first and second categories there is obvious difficulty in proving intention, especially
under the conditions of modern long-range artillery fire. A commanding officer's duty is to
give strict orders to respect hospitals, ambulances, &c., and also to place Red Cross units
as far away as possible from any legitimate line of fire. But with all care some accidents
must happen, and many reported cases will be ambiguous. At the same time, when military observers
have formed a distinct opinion that buildings and persons under the recognizable protection
of the Red Cross were willfully fired upon, such opinions cannot be disregarded.

Between thirty and forty of the depositions submitted related to this offense. This number
does not in itself seem so great as to be inconsistent with the possibility of accident.

In one case a Red Cross depôt was shelled on most days throughout the week. This is hardly
reconcilable with the enemy's gunners having taken any care to avoid it.

There are other cases of conspicuous hospitals being shelled, in the witnesses' opinion, purposely.

In one of these the witness, a Sergeant Major, makes a suggestion which appears plausible,
namely, that the German gunners use any conspicuous building as a mark to verify their ranges
rather than for the purpose of destruction. It would be quite according to the modern system
of what German writers call Kriegsräson to hold that the convenience of range-finding is a
sufficient military necessity to justify disregarding any immunity conferred on a building
by the Red Cross or otherwise. In any case, artillery fire on a hospital at such a moderate
range as about 1,000 yards can hardly be thought accidental.

(2) As to firing on ambulances, the evidence is more explicit.

In one case the witness is quite clear that the ambulances were aimed at.

In another case of firing at an ambulance train the range was quite short.

In another a Belgian Red Cross party is stated to have been ambushed.

On the whole we do not find proof of a general or systematic firing on hospitals or ambulances;
but it is not possible to believe that much care was taken to avoid this.

(3) As to firing on stretcher bearers in the course of trench warfare, the testimony is abundant,
and the facts do not seem explicable by accident. It may be that sometimes the bearers were
suspected of seeing too much; and it is plain from the general military policy of the German
armies that very slight suspicion would be acted on in case of doubt.

(c) Abuse of the Red Cross and of the White Flag.

THE RED CROSS.

Cases of the Red Cross being abused are much more definite.

There are several accounts of fire being opened, sometimes at very short range, by machine
guns which had been disguised in a German Red Cross ambulance or car. This was aggravated in
one case near Tirlemont by the German soldiers wearing Belgian uniforms.

Witness speaks also of a stretcher party with the Red Cross being used to cover an attack and
of a German Red Cross man working a machine gun.

There is also a well-attested case of a Red Cross motor car being used to carry ammunition
under command of officers.

Unless all these statements are willfully false, which the committee sees no reason to believe,
these acts must have been deliberate, and it does not seem possible that a Red Cross car could
be equipped with a machine gun by soldiers acting without orders. There is also one case of
firing from a cottage where the Red Cross flag was flying, and this could not be accidental.

On the whole, there is distinct evidence of the Red Cross having been deliberately misused
for offensive purposes, and seemingly under orders, on some, though not many, occasions.

ABUSE OF THE WHITE FLAG.

Cases of this kind are numerous. It is possible that a small group of men may show a white
flag without authority from any proper officer, in which case their action is, of course, not
binding on the rest of the platoon or other unit. But this will not apply to the case of a
whole unit advancing as if to surrender, or letting the other side advance to receive the pretended
surrender and then opening fire. Under this head we find many depositions by British soldiers
and several by officers. In some cases the firing was from a machine gun brought up under cover
of the white flag.

The depositions taken by Professor Morgan in France strongly corroborate the evidence collected
in this country.

The case numbered h 70 may be noted as very clearly stated. The Germans, who had "put up a
white flag on a lance and ceased fire," and thereby induced a company to advance in order to
take them prisoners, "dropped the white flag and opened fire at a distance of 100 yards." This
was near Nesle, on Sept. 6, 1914. It seems clearly proved that in some divisions at least of
the German Army this practice is very common. The incidents as reported cannot be explained
by unauthorized surrenders of small groups.

There is, in our opinion, sufficient evidence that these offenses have been frequent, deliberate,
and in many cases committed by whole units under orders. All the acts mentioned in this part
of the report are in contravention of The Hague Convention, signed by the great powers, including
France, Germany, Great Britain, and the United States, in 1907, as may be seen by a reference
to Appendix D, in which the provisions of that convention relating to the conduct of war on
land are set forth.

CONCLUSIONS.

From the foregoing pages it will be seen that the committee have come to a definite conclusion
upon each of the heads under which the evidence has been classified.

It is proved--

     (i.) That there were in many parts of Belgium deliberate and
     systematically organized massacres of the civil population,
     accompanied by many isolated murders and other outrages.

     (ii.) That in the conduct of the war generally innocent
     civilians, both men and women, were murdered in large numbers,
     women violated, and children murdered.

     (iii.) That looting, house burning, and the wanton destruction
     of property were ordered and countenanced by the officers of
     the German Army, that elaborate provision had been made for
     systematic incendiarism at the very outbreak of the war, and
     that the burnings and destruction were frequent where no
     military necessity could be alleged, being indeed part of a
     system of general terrorization.

     (iv.) That the rules and usages of war were frequently broken,
     particularly by the using of civilians, including women and
     children, as a shield for advancing forces exposed to fire, to
     a less degree by killing the wounded and prisoners, and in the
     frequent abuse of the Red Cross and the white flag.

Sensible as they are of the gravity of these conclusions the committee conceive that they would
be doing less than their duty if they failed to record them as fully established by the evidence.
Murder, lust, and pillage prevailed over many parts of Belgium on a scale unparalleled in any
war between civilized nations during the last three centuries.

Our function is ended when we have stated what the evidence establishes, but we may be permitted
to express our belief that these disclosures will not have been made in vain if they touch
and rouse the conscience of mankind, and we venture to hope that as soon as the present war
is over the nations of the world in council will consider what means can be provided and sanctions
devised to prevent the recurrence of such horrors as our generation is now witnessing.

We are, &c.,

BRYCE, F. POLLOCK, EDWARD CLARKE, KENELM E. DIGBY, ALFRED HOPKINSON, H.A.L. FISHER, HAROLD COX.

SCRIABIN'S LAST WORDS.

[From The London Times, May 1, 1915.]

M. Briantchaninov, an intimate friend of Scriabin, telegraphed the news of the composer's death
to a friend in England. He stated that Scriabin died of the disease of the lip from which he
was suffering when in England last year, and that he had just finished the "wonderful poetical
text" of the prologue to his "Mystery." When Scriabin was suffering terrible pain just before
his death he clenched his hands and his last words were: "I must be self-possessed, like Englishmen."

M. Briantchaninov is collecting a fund for Scriabin's children, and he suggests that possibly
"some English friends and admirers" may care to contribute.

April 2--Russians take the offensive along their whole front from the Baltic Sea to Rumanian
border; they are reported to be concentrating an enormous force on the coast of Finland to
prevent any attempt at a German landing; Germans in Poland are being pushed back to the East
Prussian border; Russians capture another strongly fortified ridge in the Carpathians, scaling
ice-covered hills to do it; vast bodies of Russian cavalry are held in readiness for a sweep
across the plains of Hungary; main Austrian Army in Bukowina is falling back; Russians now
stand upon last heights of the main chain of Beskid Mountains; Austrians repulse Russian attacks
east of Beskid Pass; Russians drive back Germans to the east of Pilwiszka; Austrians repulse
Russian attacks between the Pruth and Dniester Rivers.

April 3--Fighting in the Carpathians continues night and day along a forty-mile front; Russians
are making gains and pressing Austrians hard; Germans are pouring reinforcements into Hungary
to support Austrians; Austrians gain in Bukowina; Austrians are trying to cut off Montenegro
from all communication with the outside world and starve her into submission.

April 4--Austrians retreat from the Beskid region after Russian success; Austrians make progress
in the Laborcza Valley; fighting has been going on for twenty-four continuous hours on both
sides of the Dukla Pass; Germans repulse Russian attacks near Augustowo.

April 5--Russians continue to make steady progress in the Carpathians; they are now on the
Hungarian side of both the Dukla and Lupkow Passes and are making advances on the heights which
dominate Uzsok Pass; Russians gain in Bukowina and in North Poland.

April 6--Russians continue their great offensive in the Carpathians; Austrians are retreating
at some points and burning their bridges behind them; Russians make progress in direction of
Rostok Pass; German reinforcements are being rushed from Flanders to Austria via Munich; Austrian
and German troops take strong Russian positions east of Laborcza Valley; Russians have been
repulsed in an attempt to cross to the left bank of the Dniester River southwest of Uscie-Diekupie;
Austrian artillery is bombarding Serbian towns on the Danube and the Save.

April 7--Russians continue offensive between the River Toplia and the Uzsok Pass region; Austrians
take guns and war material on the heights east of the Laborcza Valley; Austrians bombard Belgrade;
Austrians win ground along the River Pruth; Austrians are reported to have passed the Dniester
and to be advancing on Kamenitz Podolsky, in Russian territory.

April 8--Russian advance in the Carpathians cuts one Austrian army in two; Russians capture
Smolnik, east of Lupkow Pass; fierce fighting is going on in the mountain passes.

April 9--The whole southern slope of the Carpathians has been strongly fortified by the Austrians;
twenty-four Austrian and six German army corps are stated to be now facing the Russians.

April 10--Russians begin attack on German forces which hold the hills from Uzsok Pass eastward
to Beskid Pass; Russians make gains in the direction of Rostok; the general Russian offensive
continues on the Niznia-Destuszica-Volestate-Bukowecz line; in places in the Carpathians the
Russians are progressing through seven feet of snow; Austro-German forces repulse a strong
Russian attack in the Opor Valley.

April 11--All the main ridges of the Carpathians are now in the hands of the Russians, who
hold the eighty-mile front Uzsok-Mezo-Laborcza-Bartfeld, with the head sections of five main
railways; at some points the Russians are descending the southern slopes and are approaching
the Uzsok Valley.

April 12--Germans repulse Russian attack near Kaziouwka, Russians losing heavily; artillery
duels are in progress near Ossowetz and in the region of Edvabno; German attack on village
of Szafranki is repulsed; Austro-Germans still hold the Uzsok Pass; they repulse Russian attacks
east of there.

April 13--Large German reinforcements are being sent to the Austrians; 280,000 Germans, comprising
seven army corps, are co-operating with the Austrians in a formidable attack on the left wing
of the Russian army which is invading Hungary; Austrian Embassy at Washington gives out an
official bulletin from Vienna saying the Russian advance in the Carpathians is halted; heavy
fighting is in progress in the Bartfeld-Stryi region; Russians advance on both banks of the
Ondawa, and gain success in direction of Uzsok, capturing certain heights; Austro-German forces
strongly attack the heights south of Koziouwa, but are repulsed; Russians repel German attacks
on the front west of the Niemen; Ossowetz is again bombarded by the Germans; fierce fighting
is on in Bukowina.

April 14--After a twelve-hour battle the Austrians retreat precipitately from a strong position
at Mezo Laborcz, on Hungarian side of the East Beskid Mountains; the whole main front in this
district is in Russian hands; Austro-German forces are contesting stubbornly every foot of
the German advance along the front from Bartfeld to Stryi; Austrians are trying to penetrate
into Russian territory from Bukowina; Germans are active in Poland; Germans attack the town
of Chafranka, on the Skwa River, near Ostrolenka; it is stated at Petrograd that 4,000,000
combatants, including both sides, are now engaged along the Carpathians.

April 15--Russians crush fierce counter-attack against their left wing in the Carpathians made
by picked Bavarian infantry; Russians repulse an attack by Austrians on the extreme east; Austrians
defeat Russians near Oiezkowice, on the Biala.

April 16--War correspondents at Austrian headquarters, in summing up the result of the fighting
in the Carpathians, say that the Russian loss has been 500,000, and that the backbone of the
invading army is broken; Germans prepare to attack along an 800-mile Russian front.

April 17--The melting of the snow in the Carpathians, resulting in overflowing streams and
rivers and in seas of mud, is stopping various intended movements on both sides; artillery
engagements are in progress in Southeast Galicia and Bukowina; Russians repulse attacks in
the direction of Stryi; Russian Emperor leaves for the front.

April 18--In a review of the Carpathian campaign issued by Russian General Headquarters it
is stated that since the beginning of March Russian troops have carried by storm 75 miles of
the principal chain of the Carpathians, have taken 70,000 prisoners, 30 field guns, and 200
machine guns; fighting in the Carpathians on main line of Russian advance is now concentrated
on the narrow section between the villages of Telepoche and Zuella; Russians gain on the heights
of Telepotch; artillery duels continue in Southeast Galicia.

April 20--Russians repulse vigorous German attack east of Telepotch and Polen; severe fighting
for the height near Oravozil is in progress, the Russians reoccupying it by a desperate assault
after losing it earlier in the day; 600,000 Austro-German troops are now engaged over an irregular
line between the Lupkow and Uzsok Passes.

April 21--Austrians repel, after several days' fighting, a strong Russian attack on the extreme
wings of the Austrian forces in the wooded mountains near Laborcza and the Ung Valley; Austrians
still hold Uzsok Pass; Russians repulse Austrian attack in Western Galicia near Gorlitz; Russians
check an Austrian counter-attack against the heights of Polen; the counter-attack of General
Litzinger's Bavarian army against Russian left wing in the Carpathian position has now been
definitely halted; nevertheless the Russian advance in the Carpathians has now apparently come
to a full stop; Russians reoccupy the hill village of Oravtchik.

April 22--Russians defeat Austrians in bayonet fighting on the Bukowina front; artillery duels
are in progress in Russian Poland and Western Galicia; Austrians repulse Russian attacks on
both sides of the Uzsok Pass, taking 1,200 prisoners; Russians check attempted Austrian outflanking
movements on the central Carpathian front; in Galicia an Austro-German army, defeated by Russians,
is falling back.

April 23--Austrians have success in artillery duel in the sector of Nagypolany; Russians gain
in the direction of Lutovisk; a strong force of Russian cavalry invades East Prussia near Memel,
the seaport at the northern extremity of the province, and is threatening the German left flank;
Russians make gains in the region of Telepotch and at Sianka; Austrians repulse several day
attacks at points near Uzsok Pass; heavy artillery engagements are being fought in the region
of this pass.

April 25--Austro-German troops take by storm Ostry Mountain, in the Orava Valley, in the Carpathians,
to the south of Koziouwa; the mountain is 3,500 feet high, with precipitous sides, and the
Russians believed their fortifications had made it impregnable; this victory gives the Austrians
command of the Orava Valley and allows them to advance their lines east of Uzsok Pass eleven
miles into Galician territory; Russian artillery repulses a German attack between Kalwaya and
Ludwinow in Prussian Poland; heavy fighting continues in the Carpathians in the Uzsok Pass
region, the Austrians having brought up fresh units of heavy artillery.

April 26--Russian counter-attacks on the height of Ostry are beaten off; Austrians capture
twenty-six Russian trenches; Austrians gain ground south of Koziouwa; artillery duel is being
fought on the Dniester in Bukowina.

April 27--Russians have begun another strong offensive around the heights of Uzsok Pass; Austro-German
casualties there in two days are estimated by Russians at 20,000; Russians repel Austrian attacks
on the heights to the northeast of Oroszepatak; Russians are concentrating at Bojan, Northern
Bukowina.

April 28--Heavy fighting continues in the Uzsok Pass region; a battle has been raging for five
days in the vicinity of Stryi; Russians repulse Germans at Jednorojetz; Germans take twelve
miles of Russian trenches east of Suwalki; Austrians occupy Novoselitsky, on border of Bessarabia,
and are advancing into Russian territory.

April 29--Germans begin an offensive along nearly the whole of the East Prussian front, extending
from north of the Niemen River to the sector north of the Vistula; Russians are beaten back
in an attack in the Carpathians northeast of Loubnia; Russians repulse an attack on the heights
of the Opor Valley.

April 30--German cavalry is invading the Russian Baltic Provinces; German attempt to advance
on the left bank of the Vistula is checked: in the region of Golovetzko the Russians take the
offensive, capturing trenches and prisoners; Russians check an attempted offensive north of
Nadvorna; Austrians repulse Russian night attacks in the Orawa and Opor Valleys.

CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN EUROPE.

April 1--Artillery duels are in progress in the Woevre district; French occupy the village
of Fey-en-Haye to the west of the Forest of Le Prêtre; outpost engagements take place near
Lunéville.

April 2--Heavy artillery fighting is on between the Meuse and the Moselle; night infantry fighting
takes place in the Forest of Le Prêtre.

April 3--Germans repulse French in Forest of Le Prêtre; Germans repulse French attack on heights
west of Mülhausen; French make progress with mining operations southwest of Péronne; French
check a German attempt to debouch near Lassigny; French repulse attacks in Upper Alsace.

April 4--Germans take from the Belgians the village of Drei Grachten on the west side of the
Yser, this being the first time the Germans have gained a foothold on the west bank for weeks;
French make progress in the Woevre district; French take village of Regniéville, west of Fey-en-Haye;
Germans repulse French charges in Forest of Le Prêtre.

April 5--French capture three successive lines of trenches at the Forest of Ailly, near St.
Mihiel; Germans repulse Belgians near Drei Grachten; Germans repulse French attempt to advance
in the Argonne Forest and Germans gain ground in the Forest of Le Prêtre; French are advancing
in Champagne; French gain ground in the Hurlus district and beyond the Camp de Chalons, capturing
some of the Germans' prepared positions; bombardment of Rheims is being continued night and
day, and it is reported that one-third of the houses have been destroyed and another one-third
damaged.

April 6--French are conducting a sustained offensive between the Meuse and Moselle in an effort
to dislodge Germans from St. Mihiel; French gain trenches in the Wood of Ailly; French make
progress near Maizeray and in the Forest of Le Prêtre; strong French attacks at points east
of Verdun are repulsed, but French occupy village of Gussainville.

April 7--French, continuing extensive operations, make gains in the Woevre district and southward
between St. Mihiel and Pont-à-Mousson; east of Verdun the French take two lines of trenches,
and repulse German counter-attacks; Germans report that French offensive, as a whole, is thus
far a failure.

April 8--French official report states that since April 4 the French offensive between the
Meuse and the Moselle has resulted in important gains on the heights of the Orne, on the heights
of the Meuse at Les Eparges, in the Ailly Wood, and in the Southern Woevre between the Forest
of Mortmare and the Forest of Le Prêtre, the Germans losing heavily; the German report is at
variance with French claims and states that the French have failed; Belgians report that the
western side of the Yser Canal, in the direction of Drei Grachten, is completely free of Germans.

April 9--Desperate fighting continues on the heights of the Meuse and along the St. Mihiel-Pont-à-Mousson
front; French announce complete occupation of Les Eparges, one of their chief objectives; French
say Germans were repulsed fifteen times in the Forest of Mortmare; Berlin report is at sharp
variance with the French, stating that all French attacks in the Meuse region have been repulsed
with heavy loss; Germans make gains in Champagne; Germans retake Drei Grachten from Belgians.

April 10--French extend their gains in the Woevre; French push forward on St. Mihiel-Pont-à-Mousson
front in attempt to cut German communications; French hold Les Eparges firmly, where, according
to the official French report, the Germans have lost 30,000 men in two months; Germans repulse
French between the Orne and the heights of the Meuse, and in the Forest of Le Prêtre; French
attacks on the village of Bezange la Grande fail.

April 11--French state that they maintain their gains of previous days in the St. Mihiel region,
though Germans recapture some of their own lost trenches in Mortmare Wood; French repulse attacks
in the Forest of Le Prêtre, though the Germans capture some machine guns; a strong French attack
on German positions north of Combres results in failure; German main army headquarters denies
that the recent French attacks in the St. Mihiel region have been successful; Germans take
three villages from the Belgians; Germans are vigorously attacking positions recently taken
from them by the French on Hartmanns-Weilerkopf; furious German attacks are made near Albert,
being a continuation of an attack begun yesterday; Germans blow up some French trenches by
mines; heavy German losses, due to the pounding of six miles of French artillery, occur in
an infantry advance.

April 12--Lively fighting in the Woevre district; Germans attack Les Eparges, but are repulsed;
French make gains at Courie; Germans have successes in close-quarter fighting in the Forests
of Ailly and Le Prêtre; German sappers throw letters into British trenches saying they are
tired of fighting and expressing hopes for peace.

April 13--French make slight gains east of Berry-au-Bac; Germans repulse French attacks at
several points; Germans gain ground in the Forest of Le Prêtre; Germans are moving up reinforcements
in the region of Thionville and Metz.

April 14--French penetrate the German line at Marcheville, but are driven out by counter-attacks;
French extend their front in the Forest of Ailly, and make progress in the Forest of Mortmare;
French artillery checks a German attack at Les Eparges; activity is renewed at Berry-au-Bac;
Germans are strengthening the forts at Istein, on the Rhine.

April 15--The whole spur northeast of Notre Dame de Lorette has been carried by the French
with the bayonet; French gain at Bagatelle in the Argonne; French repulse German counter-attacks
at Les Eparges; Germans repulse French attacks at Marcheville, at the Forest of Le Prêtre,
and elsewhere.

April 16--French repulse German attacks north of Arras and in the St. Mihiel region.

April 17--French make progress in the Vosges on both sides of the Fecht River; in Champagne,
northeast of Perthes, the Germans explode mines under French trenches; Germans repulse French
near Flirey; French repulse Germans at Notre Dame de Lorette; in the Valley of the Aisne French
heavy artillery bombards the caves of Pasly, used as German shelters.

April 18--Germans repulse British attack in the hills southeast of Ypres; Germans capture an
advanced French position in the Vosges southwest of Stossweier; French have successes in the
Valley of the Aisne, at the Bois de St. Mord, and in Champagne, to the northwest of Perthes;
French make progress in region of Schnepfen-Riethkopf in Alsace.

April 20--Heavy artillery fighting in Champagne and the Argonne; French infantry attack fails
north of Four-de-Paris; French make slight progress in the Forest of Mortmare; Germans storm
and reoccupy the village of Embermenil, west of Avrecourt.

April 21--Violent German counter-attacks are being made on Hill 60, but all have been repulsed,
"with great loss to the enemy," according to the British; Germans capture a French battery
near Rheims; French repulse German attacks at several points between the Meuse and the Moselle;
French repulse attack in Alsace east of Hartmanns-Weilerkopf; Germans repulse French attack
north of Four-de-Paris; Germans repulse French attack extending over a considerable front at
Flirey; German gain in the Forest of Le Prêtre.

April 22--A great new battle is being fought at Ypres, Germans taking a strong offensive from
the northeast; they drive the Allies back to the Ypres Canal, taking 6,000 prisoners and 35
guns; at Steenstraete and Het Sase the Germans force their way across the canal and establish
themselves on the west bank; Germans capture villages of Langemarck, Steenstraete, Het Sase,
and Pilken; Ypres is being heavily bombarded; British and French official reports declare that
at one point where the French fell back they did so because of asphyxiating gas used by the
Germans; the Germans, on the contrary, have claimed several times recently that the French
have been using asphyxiating bombs at various points; Germans continue tremendous attacks on
Hill 60, with what is declared to be one of the fiercest artillery bombardments in history,
but the British still hold it; German troops are pouring through Belgium to the Ypres front;
Germans gain ground south of La Bassée; Germans repulse French attack in the western part of
the Forest of Le Prêtre; French repulse attack at Bagatelle, in the Argonne; French gain ground
near St. Mihiel; French continue to advance on both banks of the Fecht River; official French
report states that all the Ailly woods are now in the hands of the French after several days'
fighting in the early part of April; infantry attacks were preceded by a concentrated artillery
fire, at one point the French firing 20,000 shells in 90 minutes.

April 23--French make progress at Forstat and near St. Mihiel; artillery duels at Combres,
St. Mihiel, Apremont, and northeast of Flirey; French take advanced German trenches between
Ailly and Apremont.

April 24--One of the most furious battles of the war is now raging north of Ypres, where the
Allies have regained some of the ground recently lost; Germans are pouring more troops into
Flanders to push the attack; the Canadians make a brilliant counter-attack, regaining part
of the ground this division lost, and retake four Canadian 4.7-inch guns which they had lost;
the Canadians are highly praised in the British War Office report; Germans make further gains
at another point on the line and they seize Lizerne on the west bank of the Ypres Canal; the
French report says the French and Belgians recaptured Lizerne later in the day; the British
have consolidated their position on Hill 60; fierce fighting is in progress in the Ailly wood;
French repulse another attack on Les Eparges and an attack south of the Forest of Parroy; Germans
repel a number of French attacks between the Meuse and the Moselle; Germans make progress in
the Forest of Le Prêtre.

April 25--Germans gain more ground at Ypres and begin a terrific drive near La Bassée; Germans
capture villages of St. Julien and Kersselaere and advance toward Grafenstafel, taking British
prisoners and machine guns; Allies repulse Germans at several other points; Germans repulse
French attack in the Argonne and win in the Meuse hills, southwest of Combres, taking seventeen
cannon and 1,000 prisoners; London reports that clouds of chlorine were released from bottles
by the Germans during the recent fighting at Ypres, the gas being borne by the wind to the
French trenches, killing many men.

April 26--Allies rally and check the German drive near Ypres, fresh German assaults north and
northeast of the city being beaten off; Berlin says that the Germans retain the west bank of
the Yser, while London reports that the Allies have retaken it; Germans still hold Lizerne,
on the west bank of the canal; Germans take from the French the summit of Hartmanns-Weilerkopf,
capturing 750 men and four machine guns; French repulse German attack at Notre Dame de Lorette;
fighting is in progress on the heights of the Meuse; German attack on Les Eparges fails.

April 27--Allies repulse German attack northeast of Ypres; British make progress near St. Julien;
French retake Het Sase; Belgians repel three attacks south of Dixmude, and charge Germans with
again using asphyxiating gases; Allies retake Lizerne; Germans still hold the bridgehead on
the left bank of the canal just east of Lizerne; French state they have retaken the summit
of Hartmanns-Weilerkopf, but the Germans declare all French attacks failed; German attacks
near Les Eparges fail.

April 28--Allies are delivering counter-attacks in an attempt to regain the ground lost north
and northeast of Ypres; Germans are bringing up reinforcements and hold firmly their present
lines; scarcely a house is left standing in Ypres; Germans take French trenches near Beauséjour
in Champagne; French repulse Germans in the Argonne, near Marie Thérèse; both the Germans and
French claim to be in possession of Hartmanns-Weilerkopf; French gain ground on heights of
the Meuse; Germans repulse strong French night attack in the Forest of Le Prêtre.

April 29--Germans repulse Allies north of Ypres; German official report states Germans have
taken sixty-three guns in Ypres fighting; Germans repulse French night attacks at Le Mesnil
in Champagne; Germans gain ground on heights of the Meuse; French repulse Germans at Les Eparges.

April 30--French gain ground north of Ypres, taking two lines of trenches; Belgians have repulsed
a German attack from Steenstraete; Germans have fortified and hold bridgeheads on the west
bank of Ypres Canal near Steenstraete and Het Sase and on the east bank of the canal north
of Ypres; Germans repel a charge of Turcos and Zouaves; a huge German gun shells Dunkirk from
behind the German lines near Belgian coast, about twenty-two miles away; twenty persons are
killed and forty-five wounded; British airmen locate the gun and bombard it, while allied warships
attack from the sea; French state that they hold the summit of Hartmanns-Weilerkopf; 500 shells
fall in Rheims; French fail in an attempt in the Champagne district to win back their former
positions north of Le Mesnil; Germans repulse French charge north of Flirey.

TURKISH AND EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS.

April 1--It is learned that the Turks lost 12,000 men and many guns in a fight against the
Russians at Atkutur, Persia, on March 25; preceding the reoccupation by the Russians of Solmac
Plains, northwest of Urumiah, 720 Christians were massacred by the Turks.

April 2--Turks are building new forts at San Stefano, near Constantinople, and thousands of
Turkish troops are employed as workmen in the ammunition factories, which are being worked
to their capacity.

April 3--Turks have repulsed an attempt to land troops from a British cruiser at Mowilah, at
the head of the Red Sea.

April 7--Russians enter Artvin, Russian Armenia; the entire province of Batum has been cleared
of Turks.

April 8--French War Office announces that the expeditionary corps to the Orient, under command
of General d'Amade, has been ready for three weeks to aid the allied fleets and the British
expeditionary force in operations against Turkey; the French troops are now in camp at Ramleh,
Egypt, resting and perfecting their organization.

April 14--An official report is issued by the India Office of the British Government which
states that 23,000 Turks and Kurds attacked the British positions at Kurna, Ahwaz, and Shaiba
in Mesopotamia on March 12; they were driven off; Turks are daily massing troops on the Gallipoli
Peninsula, especially at Kiled Bahr; heavy guns formerly around Constantinople, Principo, and
Marmora seaports are being removed to the Dardanelles; a large number of German aeroplanes
are with the Turkish troops.

April 15--The greater part of the garrisons at Adrianople, Demotika, and Kirk Kilisseh have
been withdrawn for the defense of Constantinople.

April 16--India Office of the British Government makes public an official report stating that
the British India troops have inflicted another defeat on the Turks in the vicinity of Shaiba,
Mesopotamia; British casualties were 700; the Turkish forces numbered 15,000, their loses being
so heavy that they fled to Nakhailah.

April 19--Reports sent to London state that the Turks have massed 350,000 men on the Gallipoli
Peninsula, and have 200,000 more around Constantinople; 35,000 French and British troops are
at Lemnos Island, off the entrance to the Dardanelles; Field Marshal Baron von der Goltz has
been appointed Commander in Chief of the First Turkish Army.

April 21--Twenty thousand British and French troops have been landed near Enos, European Turkey,
on the Gulf of Saros; General Sir Ian Hamilton, veteran of the Boer and other wars, is the
Commander in Chief of the Allies' expeditionary force for the Dardanelles.

April 23--Troops of Allies are being landed at three points--at Enos, at Suol, a promontory
on the west of the Gallipoli Peninsula, and at the Bulair Isthmus.

April 24--Observations made by aviators of the Allies show 35,000 Turkish troops are concentrated
for the defense of Smyrna; they occupy trenches extending from Vourlah to Smyrna, and are posted
on heights commanding the city.

April 26--British War Office announces that in spite of serious opposition troops have been
landed at various points on the Gallipoli Peninsula, and their advance continues; a general
attack is now in progress on the Dardanelles by both the allied army and fleet.

April 27--On the Gallipoli Peninsula the allied troops under General Sir Ian Hamilton are trying
to batter their way through large Turkish forces led by German officers in an effort to force
the Dardanelles and reach Constantinople; the French state that they have occupied Kum Kale,
the Turkish fortress on the Asiatic side of the entrance to the Dardanelles, but the official
Turkish report says the French were repulsed here; Turks repulse Allies at Teke Burum.

April 28--Allied troops have established a line across the southern tip of the Gallipoli Peninsula,
from Eske-Hissarlik to the mouth of a stream on the opposite side; Allies beat off attacks
at Sari-Bair and are advancing; Turks are strongly intrenching, and have constructed many wire
entanglements; report from Berlin states that the left wing of the allied army has been beaten
back by the Turks and 12,000 men captured.

April 29--The landing of allied troops on the Gallipoli Peninsula is still going on; forces
disembarked at Enos have advanced twenty miles; 11,000 Turks have been captured, and many German
officers; British aerial fleet is co-operating with the troops; Turks drive back Allies who
landed near Gaba Tepeh, and sink twelve sloops bearing allied troops; the landing of one detachment
of allied troops on the Gallipoli Peninsula was accomplished by a ruse, 1,000 decrepit donkeys
with dummy baggage being landed at one point while the troops landed elsewhere; Russians have
dislodged Turks from Kotur, 110 miles northwest of Tabriz.

April 30--After hard fighting the British have firmly established themselves on the Gallipoli
Peninsula and have advanced toward the Narrows of the Dardanelles; the French have cleared
Cape Kum Kalo of Turks; activity is renewed on the Caucasus front; Russians are advancing in
direction of Olti, on border of Turkey, and have cleared the Kurds out of the Alasehkert Valley.

CAMPAIGN IN AFRICA.

April 1--British troops occupy Aus, an important trading station in German West Africa.

April 2--Madrid reports that Moorish rebels have occupied Fez and Mekines, and that the French
hold only Casablanca and Rabat.

April 6--It is announced officially at Cape Town that troops of the Union of South Africa have
captured Warmbad, twenty miles north of the Orange River.

April 21--German troops in Kamerun have been forced by allied forces to retreat from the plateau
in the centre of the colony; seat of Government has been transferred to Jaúnde; allied troops
have forced a passage across the Kele River; British troops have taken possession of the Ngwas
Bridge; French native troops from Central Africa have attained in the east the Lomis-Dume line;
official news reaches Berlin of the defeat of a British force in German East Africa on Jan.
18-19 near Jassini, the total British loss being 700; Mafia Island, off the coast of German
East Africa, was occupied by the British on Jan. 10.

NAVAL RECORD.

April 1--German submarines sink British steamer Seven Seas and French steamer Emma, thirty
men going down with the vessels; British squadron shells Zeebrugge where Germans have established
a submarine base, by moonlight; Hamburg-American liner Macedonia, which had been interned at
Las Palmas, Canary Islands, but recently escaped, has now eluded British cruisers and sailed
for South American waters.

April 2--It is learned that Chile has made representations to the British Government regarding
the sinking of the German cruiser Dresden; Chile says she was blown up by her own crew in Chilean
waters after bombardment by British squadron, and when the Chilean Government was on the point
of interning her; three British trawlers are sunk by the German submarine U-10, whose Captain,
the fishermen state, told them he has "orders to sink everything"; Norwegian sailing ship Nor
is burned by a German submarine, the submarine Captain giving the Nor's Captain a document
saying she was destroyed for carrying contraband; Dutch steamer Schieland is blown up off the
English coast, presumably by a mine; British steamer Lockwood is sunk by a German submarine
off Devonshire coast, the crew escaping.

April 3--Forts at entrance to the Gulf of Smyrna are bombarded by allied fleet; French fishing
vessel is sunk by a German submarine, her crew escaping; Berlin estimates state that from Aug.
1 to March 1 a tonnage of 437,879 in British merchant ships and auxiliary cruisers has been
destroyed.

April 4--German submarine sinks British steamer City of Bremen in the English Channel, four
of the crew being drowned; German submarine sinks a Russian bark in the English Channel; three
German steamers are sunk by mines in the Baltic, 25 men being drowned; Turkish armored cruiser
Medjidieh is sunk by a Russian mine; it is learned that an Austrian steamer with 600 tons of
ammunition aboard was blown up by a mine in the Danube on March 30, 35 of the crew being drowned;
it is learned that the American steamer Greenbriar, lost in the North Sea a few days ago, was
sunk by a mine.

April 5--A Turkish squadron sinks two Russian ships; Turkish batteries off Kum Kale sink an
allied mine sweeper; an Athens report says that the British battleship Lord Nelson, recently
stranded in the Dardanelles, has been destroyed by the fire of the Turkish shore guns; British
trawler Agantha is sunk by a German submarine off Longstone, the crew being subjected to rifle
fire from the submarine while taking to the boats; German submarine U-31 sinks British steamer
Olivine and Russian bark Hermes, the crews being saved; German Baltic fleet, returning from
bombardment of Libau, is cut off from its base by German mines, which have gone adrift in large
numbers because of a storm.

April 6--A German submarine is entangled in at net off Dover specially designed for the catching
of submarines; Stockholm reports that the Swedish steamer England has been seized by the Germans
in the Baltic and taken to a German port.

April 7--United States Government, at request of Commander Thierichens, takes over for internment
the German converted cruiser Prinz Eitel Friedrich, to hold her until the end of the war; German
Admiralty admits loss of submarine U-9, already reported by the British as being sunk.

April 8--French sailing ship Chateaubriand is sunk by a German submarine off the Isle of Wight,
the crew being saved.

April 9--British and French cruisers have taken from Italian mail steamers 2,300 bags of outgoing
German mail, and it is planned to seize bags from abroad intended for Germany.

April 10--British steamer Harpalyce, which made one voyage as a relief ship with supplies for
the Belgians donated by residents of New York State, is sunk in the North Sea by a submarine;
some of her crew are missing.

April 11--German auxiliary cruiser Kronprinz Wilhelm anchors at Newport News, needing coal
and provisions; Captain Thierfelder reports that his ship has sunk fourteen ships of the Allies
and one Norwegian ship; allied fleet is bombarding Dardanelles forts from the Gulf of Saros;
French steamer Frederic Franck, after being torpedoed by a German submarine in the English
Channel, is towed to Plymouth.

April 12--United States State Department is notified by Ambassador Page that the British Government
will settle the case of the American steamship Wilhelmina in accordance with the contentions
of the owners of the cargo; the British state that they will requisition and pay for the cargo,
and the owners of both ship and cargo will be reimbursed for the delay caused in sending the
case before a prize court; Captains of the American steamers Navajo, Joseph W. Fordney, and
Llama appeal to American Embassy at London to procure their release from British marine authorities
at Kirkwall; British collier Newlyn is damaged by an unexplained explosion off the Scilly Islands,
but makes port; a French battleship, assisted by French aeroplanes, bombards the Turkish encampment
near Gaza.

April 13--British torpedo boat destroyer Renard dashes up the Dardanelles over ten miles at
high speed on a scouting expedition.

April 14--Allied patrol ships bombard Dardanelles forts; a cruiser and a destroyer are struck
by shells from the forts; Dutch steamer Katwyk, from Baltimore to Rotterdam with a cargo of
corn consigned to the Netherlands Government, is blown up and sunk while at anchor seven miles
west of the North Hinder Lightship in the North Sea; crew is saved; indignation expressed in
Holland; Swedish steamer Folke is sunk by a mine or torpedo off Peterhead; thirty-one new cases
of beri-beri have developed among the crew of the Kronprinz Wilhelm since her arrival at Newport
News.

April 15--"White Paper" made public in London shows that Great Britain has made "a full and
ample apology" to the Government of Chile for the sinking in Chilean territorial waters last
month of the German cruiser Dresden, the internment of which had already been ordered by the
Maritime Governor of Cumberland Bay when the British squadron attacked her; two allied battleships
enter the bay at Enos and with shells destroy the Turkish camp there; Russian squadron bombards
Kara-Burum, inside the Tchatalja lines; British steamer Ptarmigan is sunk by a German submarine
in the North Sea, eight of the crew being lost; tabulation made in London of statistics of
maritime losses shows that England and her allies have sunk, captured, or detained 543 ships
belonging to Germany and her allies, while Germany and her allies have sunk, captured, or detained
265 ships belonging to England, France, Belgium, and Russia.

April 16--French cruiser bombards fortifications of El-Arish, near the boundary of Egypt and
Palestine, as well as detachments of Turkish troops concentrated near that place; one cruiser
bombards the Dardanelles forts; Russian squadron bombards Eregli and Sunguldaik, in Asia Minor,
on the Black Sea.

April 17--Two British ships drive ashore and destroy a Turkish torpedo boat which attacked
a British transport in the Aegean Sea; it is reported that 100 men on the transport were drowned;
Greek steamer Ellispontis, en route for Montevidio from Holland, is torpedoed in the North
Sea, the crew being saved.

April 18--British submarine E-15 runs ashore in the Dardanelles, the crew being captured by
Turks; two British picket boats, under a heavy fire, then torpedo and destroy the stranded
vessel to prevent her being used by the Turks.

April 19--Russian Black Sea torpedo boat squadron bombards the coast of Turkey in Asia, between
Archav and Artaschin; provision stores and barracks are destroyed; many Turkish coastwise vessels
laden with ammunition and supplies are sunk; six allied torpedo boats fail in an attempt to
penetrate the Dardanelles.

April 20--Two Turkish torpedo boat destroyers are blown up while passing through a mine belt
laid by the Russians across the entrance to the Bosporus.

April 21--British freighter Ruth is sunk by a German submarine in the North Sea, crew being
rescued.

April 22--M. Augagneur, French Minister of Marine, and Winston Spencer Churchill, First Lord
of the British Admiralty, hold a conference in the north of France as to the best means of
forcing the Dardanelles; an Anglo-French fleet is sighted off the lower coast of Norway; German
Admiralty gives out a statement that British submarines have been repeatedly sighted lately
in Heligoland Bay and that one of these submarines was sunk on April 17; all steamship communication
between the British Isles and Holland is suspended; allied fleet bombards Dardanelles forts
and points on the west coast of Gallipoli; British trawler St. Lawrence is sunk in the North
Sea by a German submarine, two of the crew being lost; a German submarine has taken the British
steam trawler Glancarse into a German port from a point off Aberdeen; British trawler Fuschia
brings into Aberdeen the crew of the trawler Envoy, which was shelled by a German submarine.

April 23--German Admiralty announces that the German high seas fleet has recently cruised repeated
in the North Sea, advancing into English waters without meeting British ships; the British
Official Gazette announces a blockade, beginning at midnight, of Kamerun, German West Africa;
Norwegian steamer Caprivi is sunk by a mine off the Irish coast.

April 24--Finnish steamer Frack is sunk in the Baltic by a German submarine; Norwegian barks
Oscar and Eva are sunk by a German submarine, the crews being saved.

April 25--Russian Black Sea fleet bombards the Bosporus forts.

April 26--French armored cruiser Leon Gambetta is torpedoed by the Austrian submarine U-5 in
the Strait of Otranto; 552 of her men, including Admiral Senes and all her commissioned officers,
perish; Italian vessels rescue 162 men; the cruiser was attacked while on patrol duty in the
waterway leading to the Adriatic Sea, and sank in ten minutes after the torpedo hit; England
stops all English Channel and North Sea shipping, experts believing that the Admiralty order
is connected with the desperate fighting now going on at Ypres; German converted cruiser Kronprinz
Wilhelm, lying at Newport News, interns until the end of the war.

April 27--Sixteen battleships and armored cruisers of the Allies attack advance batteries at
the Dardanelles, but do little damage; British battleships Majestic and Triumph, damaged, have
to withdraw from the fighting line; the fleet is operating in conjunction with the land forces.

April 28--Bombardment of the Dardanelles is continued by the Allies; French armored cruiser
Jeanne d'Arc is damaged by fort fire; Captain of a Swedish steamer reports the presence in
the North Sea of a German fleet of sixty-eight vessels of all classes.

April 29--British steamer Mobile is sunk by a German submarine off the north coast of Scotland,
the crew being saved.

April 30--Allied fleet is co-operating with the troops in their advance on the Gallipoli Peninsula;
British battleship Queen Elizabeth directs the fire of her fifteen-inch guns upon the Peninsula
under guidance of aviators; a Turkish troopship is sunk; Zeebrugge is bombarded from the sea;
British trawler Lily Dale is sunk by a German submarine in the North Sea; British Admiralty
announces that the German steamship Macedonia, which escaped from Las Palmas, Canary Islands,
a few weeks ago, has been captured by a British cruiser.

AERIAL RECORD.

April 1--British airmen bombard German submarines which are being built at Hoboken, near Antwerp.

April 2--French aeroplane squadron drops thirty-three bombs on barracks and aeroplane hangars
at Vigneulles, in the Woevre region; French and Belgian aviators drop thirty bombs on aviation
camp at Handezaema; allied aviators drop bombs on Mühlheim and Neuenberg, doing slight damage;
Adolphe Pegoud, French aviator, attacks and brings down a German Taube near Saint Menehould
by shooting at it; he captures the pilot and observer, unhurt.

April 3--French bring down a German aeroplane at Rheims, the aviators, unhurt, being captured.

April 4--German Taube drops bombs on Newkerk church, near Ypres; twelve women and Abbé Reynaert
are killed; many persons injured; bombs are dropped from a British aeroplane on the forts at
the entrance to the Gulf of Smyrna; the tenth Zeppelin to be constructed at Friedrichshafen
has its trial trip; the latest type is longer and faster than preceding models.

April 5--French War Office announces that in the British raid on Belgium, at the end of March,
40 German workmen were killed and 62 wounded; at Hoboken two German submarines were destroyed,
a third damaged, and the Antwerp Naval Construction Yards were gutted; French aviators bombard
Mühlheim, killing three women.

April 6--German seaplane is brought down by the Russians off Libau, after dropping bombs on
city, the aviators being captured.

April 7--Austrian aviators drop bombs in the market place of Porgoritza, Montenegro, killing
twelve women and children, and injuring forty-eight other persons; many buildings are destroyed.

April 8--One Austrian aeroplane beats three Russian machines in mid-air, all the Russian aeroplanes
falling to earth.

April 9--It is reported from Furnes, Belgium, that Garros, French aviator, recently won a duel
in mid-air against a German aeroplane, shooting down Germans.

April 11--Captain of British steamer Serula drives off two German aeroplanes with a rifle;
the aviators drop twenty-five bombs, all missing; German aeroplane bombards an allied transport
near the Dardanelles.

April 12--German dirigible drops seven bombs on Nancy, doing slight damage.

April 13--French aviators bombard military hangars at Vigneulles, and disperse, near there,
a German battalion on the march; according to a report printed in a Swiss newspaper, Count
Zeppelin's secretary told this journal's correspondent that Germany is preparing for a great
air raid on London in August, with two squadrons of five dirigibles each.

April 14--A Zeppelin makes a night raid over the Tyne district of England; inhabitants of the
whole region from Newcastle to the coast, warned by authorities, plunge the territory into
darkness, which has the effect of baffling the airship pilot; bombs, chiefly of the incendiary
kind, are dropped from time to time haphazard; a Zeppelin, while flying over the Ypres district,
is shot at and badly damaged, coming down some hours afterward a complete wreck near Maria
Aeletre; a Zeppelin drops bombs on Bailleul, the objective being the aviation ground, but this
is not hit; three civilians are killed; two German aeroplanes are forced to come to the ground
within the French lines, one near Braine and the other near Lunéville.

April 15--Fifteen French aeroplanes drop bombs on German military buildings at Ostend; German
aviator drops bombs on Mourmelow; French aviator drops five bombs on the buildings occupied
by the German General Staff at Mazières; French aviators bombard Freiburg-in-Breisgau, killing
six children, two men, and one woman, and injuring fourteen other persons, including several
children; three allied aeroplanes make a flight of 170 miles over the Sinai Peninsula, aiming
bombs at the tents of Turkish troops.

April 16--Two Zeppelins attack the east coast of England in the early morning, dropping bombs
at Lowestoft, at Malden, thirty miles from London, while one of the raiders is seen near Dagenham,
eleven and one-half miles from London Mansion House; one woman is injured and considerable
property damage is done; a German biplane flies over Kent, dropping bombs, which do little
damage; at Sheerness the anti-aircraft guns open fire, but the machine escapes; a single bomb,
dropped by a German Taube on Amiens, kills or wounds thirty persons, mostly civilians, while
twenty-two houses are destroyed outright and many others seriously damaged; French aviators
drop bombs at Leopoldshöhe, Rothwell, and Mazières-les-Metz; two civilians are killed at Rothwell;
a combined attack is made by one British and five French aeroplanes on a number of Rhine towns;
two allied hydroplanes fall into the Dardanelles as a result of Turkish fire; Garros kills
two German aviators in their aeroplane by shooting them from his aeroplane.

April 17--French airship bombards Strassburg, wounding civilians; two German aeroplanes drop
bombs on Amiens, killing seven persons and wounding eight.

April 18--Garros brings down, between Ypres and Dixmude, another German aeroplane, his third
within a short period.

April 19--Two French aerial squadrons attack railway positions along the Rhine, and bombard
the Mühlheim and Habsheim stations; at Mannheim huge forage stores are set on fire; Garros
is captured by the Germans at Ingelmunster, Belgium, after being forced to alight there; German
aeroplanes drop bombs in Belfort; Germans repulse French aeroplanes at Combres.

April 20--German aeroplane squadron drops 100 bombs at Bialystok, Russian Poland, killing and
wounding civilians; a Zeppelin bombards the town of Oicchanow, doing slight damage; the Rhine
from Basle to Mülhausen is the scene of a considerable engagement lasting two hours, in which
two French and two British aeroplanes attack a larger German squadron and are driven off; returning
with reinforcements and now outnumbering the German squadron, they drive off the Germans; no
report as to losses; reports from Swiss towns around Lake Constance on which the Zeppelin works
are situated, state that Emperor William has ordered much larger Zeppelins constructed; each
of the new Zeppelins, it is stated, will cost over $600,000, and will throw bombs double the
size of those now used.

April 21--French aeroplanes bombard headquarters of General von Etrantz in the Woevre; French
aeroplanes bombard German convoys in the Grand Duchy of Baden and an electric power plant at
Loerrach, at the latter place injuring civilians; British aviators drop bombs on the German
aviation harbor and shed at Ghent; Russian aeroplanes bombard the railroad station at Soldau.

April 23--Russian aeroplanes drop bombs on Mlawa and Plock, and bombard the German aviation
field near Sanniky; Germans bring down a Russian aeroplane at Czernowitz, the pilot being killed.

April 24--French aviator drops two bombs on Fort Kastro, at Smyrna, killing several soldiers;
official German statement says a British battleship was badly damaged in the recent Zeppelin
attack on the Tyne region.

April 25--Aviators of the Allies are making daily attacks on the Germans between the Yser and
Bruges; a Zeppelin throws bombs on the town of Sialvstok.

April 26--A Zeppelin drops on Calais large bombs of a new type, with greatly increased power;
thirty civilians are injured; a Russian aeroplane drops three bombs on Czernowitz, injuring
children.

April 27--British airmen bombard eight towns in Belgium occupied by Germans; Russians damage
and capture two Austro-German aeroplanes; Russian aviators drop bombs on German aeroplanes
at the aviation field near Sanniky; French aviators drop bombs at Bollweiler, Chambley, and
Arnaville; French airman throws six bombs on the Mauser rifle factory at Oberdorf.

April 28--A German aeroplane throws three bombs at the American tanker Cushing, owned by the
Standard Oil Company, the attack taking place in daylight in the North Sea; the ship was flying
the American flag; splinters from one bomb strike the vessel and tear the American ensign,
according to the report of the Cushing's Captain; Russian giant aeroplane drops 1,200 pounds
of explosives on the East Prussian town of Neidenburg; allied airmen drop bombs on Haltingen,
Southern Baden; German aeroplane drops bombs on Nancy, three persons being killed and several
injured; allied airmen bombard Oberdorf, killing six civilians and wounding seven; six allied
aeroplanes bombard the hangars of dirigibles at Friedrichshafen; French aviators drop bombs
on the station and a factory at Leopoldshöhe; French capture or destroy four German aeroplanes.

April 29--Three German aeroplanes drop bombs on Belfort, four workmen being wounded; German
aeroplanes bombard Epernay.

April 30--A Zeppelin drops bombs on Ipswich and other places in Suffolk; no lives are reported
lost, but a number of dwellings are set on fire; four Zeppelins are sighted off Wells, Norfolk;
they change their course and head out to sea; French airship bombards the railway in the region
of Valenciennes; a destroyed French aeroplane falls within the German lines; British bring
down a German aeroplane east of Ypres.

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.

April 1--Report from Prague states that something akin to a reign of terror prevails in certain
parts of Austria, people being punished severely for trivial offenses.

April 2--Czech regiment refuses to entrain for the front; most of the Czech territorials have
been sent to Istria; Government issues appeal to cooks and housewives to exercise economy in
foodstuffs.

April 3--It is officially denied at Vienna that Austria has opened negotiations with Russia
for a separate peace, as has been persistently reported of late.

April 4--Budapest continues gay despite the war, and night life goes on much as usual.

April 11--The Foreign Office publishes a second "Red Book," charging atrocities and breaches
of international law against Serbia, Russia, France, and England; it is declared that there
is not an article of international law which has not been violated repeatedly by the troops
of the Allies.

April 12--A law court at Vienna, in the case of Dubois, a Belgian, holds that despite the German
occupation Dubois has not lost his Belgian citizenship.

April 14--Wealthy Hungarians are preparing to flee before the Russian invasion.

April 15--Some of the Hungarian newspapers are discussing peace.

April 17--War Office announces that men between 18 and 50 of the untrained Landsturm will hereafter
be liable for military service.

April 18--Bread riots occur in Vienna and at points in Bohemia; Vienna is now protected by
long lines of trenches on the left bank of the Danube; $14,000,000 is said to have been spent
in fortifications at Budapest and Vienna.

April 19--The food situation in Trieste is critical.

April 21--All Austrian subjects in Switzerland are recalled by their Government.

April 22--Riots in Trieste are assuming a revolutionary character; "Long Live Italy!" is being
shouted by the mobs; it is reported from Paris that the Hungarian Chamber at its opening session
refused to vote the new military credits demanded by the General Staff.

April 25--Anti-war riots continue at Trieste; there are also serious riots at Vienna, Goerz,
Prague, and elsewhere; the Austrians have fortified the entire Italian frontier, at places
having built intrenchments of concrete and cement.

April 28--Railway service on the Austrian side of the Austro-Italian frontier has been virtually
suspended for ordinary purposes; all lines are being used to carry troops to the frontier.

BELGIUM.

April 1--The German Governor General has revived an old law which holds each community responsible
for damage done during public disturbances; a Berlin newspaper charges that American passports
have been used to smuggle Belgian soldiers from the Yser to Holland and thence to the Belgian
Army; the Pope expresses his sympathy for Belgium's woes to the new Belgian Minister to the
Vatican.

April 3--Officials of the Belgian Public Works Department resign when ordered by the German
administration to direct construction of roads designed for strategic purposes.

April 5--Gifford Pinchot, who has been superintending relief work for Northern France, has
been expelled from Belgium by order of the German Governor General; the reason is that Mr.
Pinchot's sister is the wife of Sir Alan Johnstone, British Minister at The Hague, with whom
Mr. Pinchot stayed on his way to Belgium; Prince Leopold, elder son of King Albert, 13-1/2
years old, joins the line regiment famous for its defense of Dixmude.

April 6--Cardinal Gasparri, Papal Secretary of State, sends a letter to Cardinal Mercier inclosing
$5,000 as a personal gift from Pope Benedict to the Belgian sufferers from the war; the letter
expresses the Pope's love and pity.

April 8--President Wilson cables greetings to King Albert on his birthday.

April 13--The German Governor General orders establishment of a credit bank which will advance
money on the requisition bills given in payment for goods seized by the authorities.

April 15--It is reported from Rome that the German Embassy there has asked the Belgian Government,
through the Belgian Legation to the Quirinal, whether, in event of the German armies evacuating
Belgian territory, Belgium would remain neutral during the remainder of the war.

April 17--The German Governor General has ordered the dissolution of the Belgian Red Cross
Society, because, it is stated, the managing committee refused to participate in carrying out
a systematic plan for overcoming the present distress in Belgium.

April 24--A memorial addressed to President Wilson, signed by 40,000 Belgian refugees now in
Holland, expressing gratitude for the aid which the United States has extended to the Belgian
war sufferers, is mailed to Washington.

BULGARIA.

April 7--Travelers from Serbia and Saloniki are barred from Bulgaria because typhus is epidemic
in Serbia.

CANADA.

April 1--Canadians approve the anti-liquor stand taken by King George, and prominent men declare
themselves in favor of restricting the use of alcohol in the Dominion.

April 10--Premier Borden tells Parliament that Lord Kitchener has called on Canada for a second
expeditionary force; the first contingent of the first expeditionary force numbered 35,420,
and the second contingent of that force 22,272.

April 15--Parliament is prorogued, the Duke of Connaught, Governor General, praising Canada's
troops for "conspicuous bravery and efficiency on the field of battle."

April 25--King George cables to the Duke of Connaught an expression of his admiration of the
gallant work done by the Canadian division near Ypres; General Hughes, Canadian Minister of
Militia, cables the appreciation of the Dominion to General Alderson, commanding the Canadian
division.

April 28--About 200 Canadian officers were put out of action in the fighting near Ypres, out
of a total of 600.

April 29--Four prominent German residents of Vancouver are arrested on a charge of celebrating
German successes over the Canadians near Ypres, indignation being aroused among Vancouver citizens.

EGYPT.

April 8--An attempt is made at Cairo to assassinate the Sultan of Egypt, Hussien Kamel, a native
firing at him, but missing.

FRANCE.

April 1--A delegation of foreign newspaper men who have visited the prison camps say they found
the German prisoners well treated and contented.

April 3--General Joffre is quoted as predicting a speedy end of the war in favor of the Allies.

April 4--The second report of the French commission appointed to investigate the treatment
of French citizens by the Germans charges many acts of cruelty; 300 former captives of the
Germans tell, under oath, stories contained in the report of brutality, starvation, and death
in the German concentration camps.

April 5--There are insistent reports that the French have a new shell which kills by concussion;
it is officially stated in an army bulletin that a new explosive recently put into use doubles
the explosive force of shells of three-inch guns.

April 9--The General commanding the Vosges army has forbidden, with General Joffre's approval,
the use of alcoholic drinks in the district under his command; the general movement to restrict
the sale of intoxicants is growing; the municipal authorities of Paris are preparing a decree
prohibiting the tango.

April 10--A court-martial acquits Captain Herail of the Eleventh Hussars, who shot and killed
his wife in November because she persisted in following the army to be near him, in direct
violation of orders issued by the military authorities; the President of the Touring Club of
France states that the French people want American tourists as usual this Summer; the Almanach
de Gotha is being boycotted by the allied royalty and nobility and a new volume, to be called
the Almanach de Bruxelles, is being prepared for speedy publication in Paris.

April 11--Computation made by the Paris Matin shows that the total length of the battle front
of the Allies is 1,656 miles, the French occupying 540 miles of trenches, the British 31, and
the Belgians 17, while in the east the Russians are facing a front of 851 miles, and the Serbians
and Montenegrins are fighting on a front of 217 miles.

April 12--General Pau, who has been on a mission in Russia, Italy, and the Balkan States, gets
a notable reception on arriving in Paris.

April 13--President Poincaré leaves Dunkirk for Paris after three days with the French and
Belgian troops; M. Poincaré had a long conference with King Albert; the War Office is organizing
an expedition of cinematograph operators throughout the whole French line; it is planned to
multiply and circulate the films.

April 15--An official denial of reports from Berlin that public buildings in Paris are being
used as military observation posts is cabled to the French Embassy at Washington by Foreign
Minister Delcassé; vital statistics for the first half of 1914, just published, show that the
net diminution in the population of France was 17,000, while the population of Germany increased
in the same period, nearly 500,000; the Temps says that the problem of depopulation must receive
serious consideration after the war.

April 19--A regiment of women is being formed in Paris; it is planned that they wear khaki
uniforms, learn how to handle rifles, and undertake various military duties in areas back of
the firing line.

April 22--General Joffre retires twenty-nine more Generals to make way for younger and more
active men; the Cabinet decides that children made orphans by the death in the war of their
fathers should be cared for by the State; it is decided to appoint a commission to study the
question and decide what steps should be taken; "Tout Paris," the social register of the capital,
contains the names of 1,500 Parisians killed in action up to Feb. 25, including 20 Generals
and 193 men of title.

April 24--The famous Chambord estate is sequestrated on the ground that it is the property
of Austrian subjects; the Bank of France releases $1,000,000 gold to the Bank of England for
transmission to New York to assist in steadying exchange; French official circles and French
newspapers are pleased with the American note to Germany in reply to the von Bernstorff memorandum
on the sale of arms to the Allies, and with the expressions of German annoyance resulting from
the note.

April 30--President Poincaré receives a delegation of Irish Members of the British Parliament,
headed by T.P. O'Connor and Joseph Devlin, bringing addresses to the President and Cardinal
Amette, and assurance of devotion to the Allies' cause.

GERMANY.

April 1--Circular of the Minister of Agriculture says that through economical use of available
grain the bread supply is assured until the next harvest; it is decided to hold horse races
this season, including the German Derby; 812,808 prisoners of war are now held in Germany,
10,175 being officers.

April 3--It is reported from Königsberg, East Prussia, that along a line of 150 miles, and
for a distance varying from five to fifty miles from the Russian border, there is nothing but
ruins as the result of the Russian invasion; thousands of women and children are stated to
have been carried off to Russia; it is learned that spotted fever has been introduced into
concentration camps by Russian prisoners, but spread to the German civil population has thus
far been prevented; skilled artisans, urgently needed in various lines of industrial work,
are being granted furloughs from the front.

April 6--Postal officials suspend parcel post service to Argentina and several other South
American countries and to Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italian colonies, and Dutch West Indies;
Press Bureau of the French War Office gives out figures, compiled from official German sources,
showing that the Germans have lost 31,726 officers in killed, wounded, and missing since the
beginning of the war, out of a total of 52,805 who started in the war; General von Kluck is
recovering from his wound and has been decorated by Emperor William.

April 8--Germans are mourning Captain Otto Weddigen of submarines U-9 and U-29, it being now
accepted as a fact that the U-29, his last command, has been lost.

April 9--Official list shows that on March 1 there were in Germany 5,510 pieces of captured
artillery.

April 12--The Government is making reprisals for the treatment of captured German submarine
crews in England, having imprisoned thirty-nine British officers in the military detention
barracks.

April 13--Germany is detaining freight cars belonging to Italian lines; semi-official statement
says the passengers and crew of the steamer Falaba were given twenty-three minutes to leave
the ship and were shown as much consideration as was compatible with safety to the submarine;
according to a dispatch from Switzerland, there is an alarming increase of madness in the German
Army.

April 14--It is reported from Switzerland that Emperor William last month paid a visit to Emperor
Francis Joseph.

April 15--Several thousand parcel post packages mailed from Germany for the United States have
been returned to the senders by Swiss postal authorities, because the French and British Governments
have given notice that parcels addressed to German citizens in the United States will be seized
whenever found on shipboard; the Reichsbank's statement up to April 15 shows an increase in
gold of $2,000,000.

April 17--Ten British officers have been placed in solitary confinement in Magdeburg as a measure
of reprisal for the treatment accorded captured German submarine crews by Great Britain; a
letter from Dr. Bernhard Dernburg, former Colonial Secretary of Germany, who has for some time
been in the United States, is read at a pro-German mass meeting in Portland, Me.; it suggests
the neutralization of the high seas in time of war and makes various other proposals, which
are regarded in some quarters as a possible indication that Germany is willing to discuss terms
of peace; because of a shortage of rubber, the Government is arranging a special campaign to
collect rubber in all shapes throughout the empire.

April 19--The second officer and some of the crew of the German converted cruiser Prinz Eitel
Friedrich, now interned at Newport News, reach Copenhagen on their way to Germany; it is stated
in the Copenhagen report that they are provided with false passports describing them as Swedish
subjects.

April 20--A conference of German and Austrian Socialists in Vienna has agreed that after the
war international treaties for limitation of armaments must be agreed upon, with a view to
disarmament.

April 21--All German subjects in Switzerland are recalled by their Government; reports from
The Hague declare that German Socialists are trying to get a basis on which the war can be
stopped; the soldiers at the front are asking for flower seeds to plant on the graves of the slain.

April 22--During the last few days Emperor William has been visiting the German front in Alsace;
he promoted Colonel Reuter of Zabern fame to the rank of Major General; the Government has
sent 2,203 more maimed French officers and men to Constance, where they will be exchanged for
German wounded; university courses are being conducted by Belgian professors in the prison
camp at Soldau.

April 23--The Federal Council has extended until July 31 the operation of the order which provides
that claims held by foreign persons or corporations which accrue before July 31, 1914, cannot
be sued upon in the German courts; many newspapers comment bitterly upon the American note
replying to the Bernstorff memorandum on the sale of arms to the Allies by the United States;
there is rejoicing in Berlin over German gains near Ypres.

April 24--Dr. Dernburg, in address at Brooklyn, says that evacuation of Belgium depends on
England's agreeing to the neutralization of the sea, free cable communications, revision of
international law, and consent to German colonial expansion; interview printed in Paris quotes
M. Zographos, Foreign Minister of Greece, as declaring that Greece is ready to unite with the
Allies in the operations at the Dardanelles if invited to do so.

April 27--Copenhagen reports that systematic efforts are being made, under instructions from
Imperial Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg, to buy sufficient foodstuffs in neutral countries
to last Germany for four years.

April 28--The Supreme Military Court has confirmed the sentence of death imposed on Dec. 29
on William Lonsdale of Leeds, England, a private in the British Army, for striking a German
non-commissioned officer at a military prison camp at Doeberitz.

April 30--The subscriptions for three-quarters of the latest war loan have already been paid;
the payments reach the total of $1,687,750,000, more than twice the amount required at this
time under the stipulated conditions of the issue; German Embassy at Washington states that
the Emperor of Russia has ordered prisoners of war of Czech or other Slav origin treated kindly,
but prisoners of German or Magyar race treated severely.

GREAT BRITAIN.

April 1--Lord Kitchener follows the lead of King George in announcing his intention to abstain
from liquor during the war; the nation is stirred by the drink question, and prominent observers
believe that anti-alcohol legislation will not be necessary; 25,000 women volunteer to aid
in making munitions of war.

April 2--Text is made public of a protest by Germany, transmitted through the American Ambassador
in London, against treatment of captured German submarine crews; Germany threatens reprisals
in the form of harsh treatment of captured British officers; Sir Edward Grey in reply says
the submarine crews have violated the laws of humanity and they are segregated in naval barracks.

April 3--Government takes control of all motor manufacturing plants to accelerate the supplying
of war material.

April 4--The Archbishop of Canterbury in his Easter sermon dwells upon the national necessity
for prohibition during the war; a band of the Irish Guards, arriving in Dublin on a recruiting
tour, is enthusiastically cheered; John E. Redmond reviews at Dublin 25,000 of the Irish National
Volunteers; Limerick welcomes recruiting officers; every man in the British Navy has received
a pencil case, the gift of Queen Mary, formed of a cartridge which had been used "somewhere
in France," with silver mountings.

April 6--Official announcement states that "by the King's command no wines or spirits will
be consumed in any of his Majesty's houses after today"; George M. Booth heads committee appointed
by Kitchener to provide such additional labor as is needed for making sufficient war supplies.

April 8--Official report of the bombardment of Hartlepool, Scarborough, and Whitby by a German
naval squadron on Dec. 16 states that 86 civilians were killed and 424 wounded, of whom 26
have died; 7 soldiers were killed and 14 wounded; nearly all industries are working at top
speed; unemployment has largely disappeared; King Albert's birthday is celebrated in London
by Belgian refugees, many thousands of English joining in the observance.

April 9--A "White Paper" is published giving correspondence which passed between the British
and German Foreign Offices through the United States Ambassador regarding treatment of British
prisoners of war in Germany; testimony which is included is to the effect that Germans treat
British prisoners brutally; John B. Jackson of the American Embassy at Berlin, who, on behalf
of the German Government, recently inspected German prison camps in England, reports that prisoners
are well cared for; Captain and crew of the steamer Vosges, sunk in March by a German submarine,
are rewarded for persistent attempt to escape the submarine; in party circles it is accepted
as a fact that there will be no general election this year, and that the terms of the present
Members of Parliament will be extended.

April 11--A great campaign to obtain recruits for Kitchener's new army is begun in London,
it being planned to hold 1,500 meetings.

April 12--Government is now transferring men from the working forces of municipalities to factories,
making munitions of war.

April 13--Official announcement states that 33,000 women had registered themselves up to the
end of March for war service, as being ready to undertake various forms of labor in England
usually done by men; the Foreign Office cables the United States State Department, asking that
an investigation be started at once of Berlin reports that thirty-nine British officers have
been put in a military prison as a measure of reprisal for England's declining to accord full
privileges to German submarine prisoners; a serious explosion occurs at Lerwick, Shetland,
in which many persons are killed; Lerwick is one of the chief stations in Scotland for the
Royal Naval Reserve.

April 14--Report from Field Marshal French on the Neuve Chapelle fight is made public; the
British losses were 12,811 in killed, wounded, and missing; German losses are declared to have
been several thousand more; French says his orders were badly executed in some instances, resulting
in disorganization of infantry after victory was won; it is intimated that British artillery
fired on British troops; Government decides against placing cotton on the contraband list;
Government is making huge purchases of wheat.

April 15--The total British casualties from the beginning of the war up to April 11 were 139,347,
according to an announcement in the House of Commons by the Under Secretary for War; part of
Kitchener's new army, after six months of training, is going into camp at Salisbury Plain,
where it is stated that 100,000 men will soon be encamped.

April 16--The Foreign Office is advised by Ambassador Page that press reports are correct which
state that the Germans have put thirty-nine British officers in military detention barracks
as a measure of reprisal for British action in refusing honors of war to crews of German submarines;
the London Times states that $9,500,000 in life insurance claims has been paid to heirs of
British officers thus far killed in action.

April 17--Wages are rising and unemployment is decreasing.

April 18--Ten thousand Protestant churches observe "King's Pledge Sunday," thousands of persons
signing a pledge to abstain from intoxicants for the rest of the war.

April 19--English Football Association announces that with closing of present season on May
5 no more professional football games will be played during the war.

April 20--Premier Asquith, in an appeal made at Newcastle to the workmen of the northeast coast
to hasten the output of munitions of war, refrains from all mention of the drink question and
declares that there has been no slackness on the part of either employes or employers, this
statement being at variance with recent statements made by other Cabinet members, who have
blamed tippling on the part of workmen for slow output; the Government has made an arrangement
by which skilled workmen now at the front can be recalled to England to work in munition factories
as needed; David Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer, says in the House of Commons that
the Government does not believe that the war would be more successfully prosecuted by conscription,
adding that Kitchener is gratified with the response to his appeal for volunteers; since the
war began, 1,961 officers have been killed, 3,528 wounded, and 738 are missing.

April 21--Chancellor Lloyd George states in the House of Commons that the expeditionary force
in France now consists of more than thirty-six divisions, or about 750,000 men; the Chancellor
also states that as much ammunition was expended at Neuve Chapelle as was used during the entire
Boer war, which lasted for two years and nine months.

April 22--F.T. Jane, a well-known British naval expert, in an address at Liverpool declares
that the Germans tried to land an expeditionary force in England, but the vigilance of the
British Navy caused the expedition to turn back.

April 24--An official list received in London of the thirty-nine British officers placed in
detention barracks by the Germans in retaliation for English treatment of German submarine
crews shows the names of seven Captains and thirty-two Lieutenants, included being the names
of Lieutenant Goschen, son of a former Ambassador to Berlin; Robin Grey, a nephew of Sir Edward
Grey, and many sons of peers.

April 25--Jamaica begins raising money to send a contingent to join Kitchener's army.

April 26--The "war babies" question is to be investigated by a committee headed by the Archbishop
of York, and a report is to be made.

April 27--Lord Kitchener, speaking in the House of Commons, scores the Germans for what he
declares to be their barbarous methods of conducting war; the importation of raw cotton from
the United Kingdom is specifically prohibited; Lord Derby, in an address at Manchester, intimates
that conscription is to come soon; British War Office states that medical examination shows
that Canadian soldiers died in the Ypres fight from poisoning by gases employed by the Germans.

April 28--Clergy oppose prohibition, the lower house of the Convocation at York going on record
as believing it would be unwise and would lead in the end to an excess of intemperance; opposition
newspapers and politicians are criticising the conduct of affairs by Winston Churchill, First
Lord of the Admiralty.

April 30--Large numbers of protests from all parts of the country are being made against the
proposal of Chancellor Lloyd George to increase the duty on alcoholic drinks.

GREECE.

April 4--After being repulsed in their raid on Serbia, a detachment of Bulgarian irregulars
makes a raid on Dorian, Greece; the Greeks repulse them with machine guns.

HOLLAND.

April 1--More reservists are called; traffic between Holland and Germany has practically ceased.

April 10--Government has handed to Germany a note of protest on the sinking in March of the
Dutch steamship Medea by a German submarine.

April 16--Intense indignation and resentment are expressed by the newspapers over the sinking
of the Dutch steamer Katwyk by a German submarine; some of them talk of war.

April 21--It is reported from Amsterdam that Emperor William has sent a long personal message
to Queen Wilhelmina about the sinking of the Katwyk, declaring that full compensation would
be made if it is proved that the Katwyk was sunk by a German ship; arrangements have been made
between the Dutch and British Governments whereby not only conditional contraband, but also
goods on the contraband list of the British Government, may be given safe passage to Holland
through the blockade lines.

April 27--The forty-two delegates from the United States to the International Women's Peace
Congress arrive at The Hague; the congress is formally opened for a four days' session with
delegates present from many neutral nations and from most of the warring nations, including
England and Germany.

April 28--Miss Jane Addams presides over the Women's Peace Congress, the first business session
being held.

INDIA.

April 12--Lieutenant Seybold of the Philippine Constabulary, on arriving in New York, says
that the Fifth Native Light Infantry, composed of Hindus, revolted in Singapore on Feb. 15,
while en route to Hongkong, and nearly 1,000 of them were killed before the mutiny was quelled;
the rebellion is stated to have been fomented by agents of the German Government in Singapore;
seven Germans are stated to have been executed for connection with the uprising.

April 27--Reports from the Straits Settlements state that serious disorders are taking place
in various parts of India, the effect beginning to be felt of the Turko-German alliance and
of the German propaganda; riots have occurred at Cawnpore and in the Central Provinces; a mutiny
by native troops has taken place at Rangoon; it is reported from India that the Ameer of Afghanistan
has been assassinated.

ITALY.

April 1--There is economic distress in Italy due to eight months of war; budget of the Government,
which for years has show a surplus, shows a deficit of $13,800,000 since Aug. 1.

April 5--Many Italian troops are being assembled on the Austrian frontier; great excitement
prevails in Genoa in consequence of a report that a German submarine has sunk the Italian steamer
Luigi Parodi, and strong measures are taken by the authorities to protect the German colony.

April 6--Owner of the Luigi Parodi declares the steamer has not been lost.

April 7--The fleet concentrates at Augusta, Sicily, and at Taranto, within a few hours of the
Adriatic.

April 11--Demonstrations at Rome in favor of Italian intervention in the war cause riots and
collisions with the police.

April 12--An order is printed in the Military Journal directing all army officers to dull the
metal on their uniforms and sword scabbards; it is reported that the Pope is ready to espouse
the Italian cause if the nation enters the war.

April 14--Indignation is expressed at the Papal Court over an alleged interview with Pope Benedict
recently printed in the United States, Germany, and other countries, some of the statements
attributed to the Pope being characterized as false; particular exception is taken to a statement,
credited to the Pope, urging President Wilson to stop exportation of munitions of war to the
Allies; many telegraphic protests on the interview have reached the Vatican from Roman Catholic
clergy and laity in the United States, Britain, and France.

April 16--Italy now has 1,200,000 first-line soldiers under arms.

April 20--Reports from Rome state that Austria is rapidly gathering troops on the Italian border;
Austrians have fortified the whole line of the Isonzo River with intrenchments; it is stated
that the German and Austrian Ambassadors are secretly preparing for departure; Papal Guards
are enlisting in the regular army.

April 21--Sailings of liners from Italy to the United States have been canceled; Council of
Ministers is held, a report on the international situation being made by the Foreign Minister.

April 24--It is stated in high official circles that it is becoming increasingly improbable
that Italy will participate in the war, at least for some time to come; the Austrian Ambassador
and the Italian Foreign Minister have a long conference; it is reported from Rome that Austria
has made further concessions in an attempt to preserve Italian neutrality; nevertheless further
military preparations are being made by Italy; the exodus of German families from Italy continues;
French military experts estimate the full military strength of Italy at 2,000,000 men, of whom
800,000 form the active field army.

April 25--It is reported from Rome that Austria has offered to give autonomy to Trieste; Italian
opinion, as expressed in the newspapers, is that Austria must yield all the territory occupied
by Italians and must yield not only the Province of Trent, but Pola, Fiume, and the greater
part of Dalmatia.

April 27--The Italian Ambassadors at Paris, London, Vienna, and Berlin have been summoned to
Rome to confer with the Foreign Minister.

April 29--It is reported from Rome that Italy and the Allies have reached a definite agreement
concerning terms on which Italy will enter the war, if she ultimately decides to do so, and
that she will become a member of a quadruple entente after the war; Prince von Bülow, German
Ambassador to Italy, is stated to have failed in attempts to get Italy and Austria to come
to an understanding.

April 30--Belgian and French Cardinals, Archbishops, and Bishops have united in an appeal to
Pope Benedict for the Vatican to abandon the attitude of neutrality it has maintained since
the beginning of the war.

LUXEMBURG.

April 23--Grand Duchess Marie has sent an official protest to Berlin against the methods of
distributing food supplies, which is said to have brought nearly half her subjects to the verge
of starvation; she says that gifts of food, money, and clothes have been sent to Luxemburg
from all parts of the world, but that only a small part of these reach the civilian population.

PERSIA.

April 24--Confirmation has been received at Dilman, Persia, of the flight of from 20,000 to
30,000 Armenian and Nestorian Christians from Azerbaijan Province; of the massacre of over
1,500 who were unable to escape; of the death of 2,000 in the compounds of the American Mission
at Urumiah.

POLAND.

April 22--It is stated in London that 7,000,000 Poles are in dire need of food.

RUMANIA.

April 9--Artillery and supplies of ammunition are reaching Turkey through Rumania.

April 14--The army, reported as splendidly equipped, is ready for instant action.

RUSSIA.

April 1--Persistent rumors are current in Petrograd that Austria has opened negotiations for
a separate peace; General Ruzsky, who won praise for his conduct of the Galician campaign,
taking Lemberg, and also for his success at Przasnysz, retires because of ill-health.

April 3--General Alexiev is appointed Commander in Chief of the army on the northern front
in place of General Ruzsky; it is officially announced that Colonel Miassoydoff, attached as
interpreter to the staff of the Tenth Army, which was badly defeated in the Mazurian Lake region,
has been shot as a German spy.

April 4--Petrograd reports that the Russians have taken 260,000 prisoners on the Carpathian
front since Jan. 21.

April 7--All towns in Russian Poland are given local municipal self-government; Petrograd reports
that during the celebration of Easter, the greatest of Russian festivals, there has been an
entire absence of drunkenness.

April 14--Imperial order calls up for training throughout the empire all men from twenty to
thirty-five not summoned before; it is stated that the call will ultimately almost double the
Russian strength; the men summoned are all untrained.

April 17--The General Anzeiger of Duisburg, Rhenish Prussia, says it learns "from an absolutely
unimpeachable source" that the reported sickness of Grand Duke Nicholas, Commander in Chief
of the Russian forces, was due to a shot in the abdomen fired by the late General Baron Sievers
of the defeated Tenth Army, who is stated to have then committed suicide.

April 20--Orders have been issued that Austrian officers who are prisoners of war shall no
longer be allowed to retain their swords, as a penalty for the cutting out of the tongue of
a captured Russian scout who refused to betray the Russian position.

April 21--As a substitute for vodka shops there have been erected in open places in communities
throughout Russia "people's palaces," where the public may gather for entertainment and instruction;
in the Government of Poltava alone 300 of these recreative centres have been opened or are
projected.

April 22--Details of an $83,000,000 order for shrapnel and howitzer shell, placed early in
April by the Russian Government with the Canadian Car and Foundry Company, show that contracts
for $21,724,400 of that amount have been sublet by the Canadian company to American manufacturers;
it is also learned that the Russian Government recently placed a $15,000,000 contract with
American mills for miscellaneous artillery; a letter from an American Red Cross nurse states
that she and other American Red Cross nurses were recently received by the Czar at Kief, where
he shook hands and chatted with each.

April 23--The Czar arrives at Lemberg and holds a council of war with the Grand Duke Nicholas.

April 24--Copenhagen reports that the Czar has decided to re-establish the Finnish army with
the same constitution as previous to 1898; Grand Duke Nicholas has been much impressed with
the brilliant strategic work done by Finnish officers serving with the Russian Army.

April 25--Army orders contain the promotion of a young woman, Alexandra Lagerev, to a Lieutenancy;
she has been fighting alongside male relatives since the beginning of the war.

SERBIA.

April 2--American sanitary experts, who will work under the direction of Dr. Richard P. Strong
of Harvard, now in Europe, sail from New York on their way to Serbia, where they will fight
typhus and other diseases devastating the nation.

April 3--Several thousand Bulgarian irregulars cross the Serbian frontier near Vallandovo,
surprising and killing the Serbian guards; Serbian reinforcements, after an all-day fight,
repulse and scatter the invaders; Bulgarians lose heavily.

April 4--Serbia protests to Bulgaria because of the raid, which is said to be the fifth of
the kind since the beginning of the war; the Bulgarian Minister to Rome says that the raid
is the work of Macedonian revolutionists in Serbia.

April 6--Bulgarian Government disclaims responsibility for the raid on Serbia; it is stated
that the invasion was initiated by Turks among the inhabitants of that part of Macedonia included
in Serbia; Serbians are not satisfied and say that more attacks are being planned on Bulgarian
soil, with the object of cutting off supplies from the Serbian Army.

April 10--Disease conditions are growing worse and the percentage of deaths from typhus is
very high; 107 Serbian doctors out of 452 have died of typhus; the municipality of Uskub decides
to name its finest street after Lady Ralph Paget, who has been working in Serbia with the Red
Cross and is now convalescing from a resultant illness.

April 16--Rockefeller Foundation War Relief Commission's first installment of a report on Serbia
states that disease is spreading all over the country; there are more than 25,000 cases of
typhus, while other fevers are also epidemic; cholera is expected with the warm weather; the
nation is declared unable to aid itself.

April 17--The Government submits to Parliament a new army credit of $40,000,000.

April 21--Two invasions into Serbian territory are made by Bulgarian irregulars.

April 28--Serbia holds 60,000 Austrian prisoners.

SWEDEN.

April 7--Sweden makes a strong protest to Germany against seizure of the Swedish steamer England.

SWITZERLAND.

April 13--German shells fall upon Swiss territory for the third time since the war began, according
to a Delemont newspaper; the shots were intended for the French, but the aim was bad and they
dropped near the town of Beurnevesain.

TURKEY.

April 1--Troops are being concentrated at Adrianople as a precaution in case war starts with
Bulgaria.

April 2--Both the Turkish and Russian Ambassadors to Italy deny a report that Turkey is seeking
a separate peace.

April 7--Field Marshal von der Goltz, in an interview in Vienna, says that Turkey is well prepared
for war; she has 1,250,000 well-trained men and several hundred thousand reserves; the Sultan
gives an interview at Constantinople to American newspaper men; he deplores "unjust" attack
of Allies on the Dardanelles, adding that he does not believe the strait can be forced.

April 15--Pillage and murder are reported to be rife in villages and smaller towns of the littoral
near Smyrna; lives of Christians are in danger.

April 18--Enver Pasha, War Minister and Generalissimo of the Turkish Army, in a newspaper interview
lays the blame for Turkey's participation in the war on Russia and England; he says Turkey
has a well-prepared army of 2,000,000.

April 24--Refugees who have reached the Russian line near Tiflis, Transcaucasia, report that
widespread massacres of Armenians are being carried out by Mohammedans; they state that all
the inhabitants of ten villages near Van, in Armenia, Asiatic Turkey, have been killed.

April 27--An appeal for relief of Armenian Christians in Turkey is made to the Turkish Government
by the United States; a plot is discovered to blow up the council chamber in the Ministry of
War at Constantinople during a session of the War Council.

April 29--The War Minister has called all available men to arms; Kurds are massacring Christians
in Armenia.

UNITED STATES.

April 1--Secretary Bryan orders an inquiry into the circumstances of the arrest by the authorities
in Paris of Raymond Rolfe Swoboda, stated to be an American citizen, held in connection with
the recent fire on the French liner La Touraine in mid-ocean; the State Department is investigating
the death of Leon Chester Thrasher of Hardwick, Mass., who was lost when the British steamer
Falaba was sunk by a German submarine; information is being sought as to whether Thrasher was
an American citizen at the time of his death.

April 2--The Government is informed by the British Government, through Ambassador Page, that
no trade messages can be sent over British cables if they refer to transactions in which the
enemies of Britain are interested.

April 5--Text is made public of the United States note to Germany, recently presented by Ambassador
Gerard, demanding payment by the German Government of $228,059.54, with interest from Jan.
28, for the destruction of the American sailing ship William P. Frye by the German converted
cruiser Prinz Eitel Friedrich; Secretary Bryan makes public the text of the identic notes recently
sent by the United States to the British and French Governments protesting against invasion
of neutral rights involved in the recent British Order in Council, establishing a long-range
blockade of European waters; the note insists on the right of innocent shipments "to be freely
transported to and from the United States through neutral countries to belligerent territory,
without being subjected to the penalties of contraband traffic or breach of blockade, much
less to detention, requisition, or confiscation"; it is reported from Washington that the reason
for the order, issued a few days ago, for the recall of the five American Army officers who
have been acting as military observers in Germany, is due to the growing feeling of hostility
to Americans in Germany, and the belief that it is wise to withdraw the officers before they
become involved in any incident that might cause embarrassment in American-German relations;
Dudley Field Malone, Collector of the Port of New York, announces that he has evidence of a
widespread conspiracy to violate President Wilson's neutrality proclamation through the establishment
here of an agency to supply the British warships lying outside the three-mile zone with food
and fuel; he asks the Government for additional warships to protect the harbor's neutrality.

April 6--An official message from Berlin is issued by the German Embassy at Washington giving
an intimation that Germany would not regard with favor the idea of paying damages for the death
of Leon Chester Thrasher; the statement says that neutrals were warned not to cross the war
zone; the German Embassy gives out a statement on the stopping of the German merchant ship
Odenwald, halted by a shot across her bows when she was attempting to leave San Juan, Porto
Rico, without clearance papers, on March 22; statement refers to the episode as an "attack,"
and says "a sharp fire" was opened, but the American official report shows that only warning
shots were fired.

April 7--British Government denies Collector Malone's charge that British warships have been
receiving supplies from ports of the United States in violation of neutrality; acting upon
a request of the German Ambassador, the Government is making a new investigation of the Odenwald
case.

April 8--Secretary Bryan makes public the reply of the German Government to the American claim
for compensation for the loss of the William P. Frye; Germany is willing to pay both for ship
and cargo, basing this readiness wholly on treaties of 1799 and 1828 between the United States
and Prussia, but under international law justifying the destruction of both ship and cargo;
Collector Malone says investigation shows that charges that supplies have been sent to British
warships from New York in violation of neutrality were part of a plot to involve this country
in trouble with England.

April 11--Count von Bernstorff, the German Ambassador, makes public a memorandum addressed
to the United States Government and delivered several days ago, charging in effect that the
United States is violating the true spirit of neutrality by permitting vast quantities of arms
to be shipped to England, France, and Russia, and characterizing as a failure the diplomatic
efforts of the United States to effect shipment of food supplies to Germany; the memorandum
intimates that the United States maintained a true spirit of neutrality to Mexico in placing
an embargo on arms exports to Huerta and Carranza, and quotes a statement attributed to President
Wilson on the Mexican situation.

April 13--The Government War Risk Insurance Bureau settles its first claim for losses by paying
$401,000 to the owners of the American steamer Evelyn, sunk off the coast of Holland, supposedly
by a mine, on Feb. 21; London reports that negotiations are under way for a short-term loan
of $100,000,000 to England by American interests.

April 14--Secretary Bryan announces that arrangements have been completed with the British
Government by which two shiploads of dyestuffs may be shipped from Germany to the United States
without interference from British warships.

April 15--The text is made public of a letter written by Theodore Roosevelt to Mrs. George
Rublee of Washington, in opposition to the principles advanced by the Woman's Party for Constructive
Peace, in which he says the platform is "both silly and base"; at a meeting in New York of
the Central Federated Union a resolution is passed in favor of a general strike in those industries
employed in producing munitions of war.

April 16--The American Locomotive Company has practically completed arrangements with the Russian
Government for the manufacture of $65,000,000 worth of shrapnel shells.

April 17--The Hamburg-American steamship Georgia is transferred to American registry and renamed
the Housatonic.

April 20--French military authorities decide to abandon the charge of setting fire to La Touraine
preferred against Raymond Swoboda, because of lack of evidence.

April 21--The Government replies to the recent memorandum from Ambassador von Bernstorff on
American neutrality; the American answer regrets use of language that seems to impugn our good
faith, and it restates our position; it declares that we have at no time yielded any of our
rights as a neutral, and that we cannot prohibit exportation of arms to belligerents, because
to do so would be an unjustifiable breach of our neutrality; the State Department has cabled
the American Consul at Warsaw to report fully on the present situation of Jews in Poland.

April 23--The Telefunken wireless plant at Sayville, L.I., through which the German Government
and its embassy at Washington chiefly communicate, has been trebled in power for the purpose
of overcoming climatic conditions likely in Summer to be unfavorable for the handling of messages;
Secretary Bryan is refusing to issue passports to Americans who wish to visit belligerent countries
in Europe for sightseeing purposes.

April 28--Secretary Bryan replies to the German note on the sinking of the American ship William
P. Frye; the answer declares that the destruction of the vessel was "unquestionably" a violation
of existing treaties between the United States and Prussia; the answer states that the American
Government does not believe the matter should go before a prize court, as suggested by the
German note.

April 29--Samuel Pearson, who was a Boer General in the Boer war and is an American citizen,
begins an action in Wisconsin aimed at preventing shipment of munitions of war from the United
States to the enemies of Germany; a complaint is filed on Pearson's behalf under the so-called
"Discovery" statute of Wisconsin, to obtain information whether the Allis-Chalmers Company
and others have entered into a conspiracy with the Bethlehem Steel Company and others to manufacture
and ship shrapnel shells to European belligerents contrary to Wisconsin law.

RELIEF.

April 1--American Red Cross sends 200,000 pounds of disinfectants to Serbia for use in the
fight against typhus.

April 2--Mme. Lalla Vandervelde, wife of the Belgian Minister of State, sails from New York
after collecting nearly $300,000 for relief in Belgium.

April 3--Henryk Sienkiewicz, the Polish writer, appeals to the United States for help for Poland;
it is stated that an area seven times as great as Belgium has been laid waste, 5,000 villages
have been destroyed, 1,000,000 horses and 2,000,000 cattle are dead or seized by the enemy,
and damage to the extent of $600,000,000 has been done; Serbian Agricultural Relief Commission
of America announces that Walter Camp will take charge of Serbian relief in the colleges and
universities of the United States.

April 6--Australians have contributed $700,000 in four days for Belgian relief, and measures
are being taken to insure $500,000 a month from the Australian States.

April 8--German Red Cross sends through Ambassador Gerard its thanks for gifts from the United
States.

April 9--Commission for Relief in Belgium announces the organization of a New York State Belgian
Committee which will work in co-operation with the commission, Dr. John H. Finley being Chairman.

April 10--Major Gen. Gorgas, U.S.A., has been invited to go to Serbia for the Rockefeller Commission
to take charge of an attempt to stamp out typhus.

April 12--The State of Oklahoma makes Belgian relief an official matter, and the Governor has
issued a proclamation calling upon the people to do all in their power to aid.

April 15--Three hospital trains, each consisting of an automobile with two trailers, have been
presented to the Military Commander at Frankfort-on-Main as a gift "from friends of Germany
in the United States"; Mme. Marcella Sembrich, President of the American Polish Relief Committee,
issues an appeal to "all America" for aid for Poland; Paderewski arrives in New York to seek
American help for Poland.

April 17--Donations to the American Red Cross total to date $1,415,000; during the last week
eight steamers have sailed from the United States for Rotterdam carrying relief for Belgium;
the cargoes totaled 55,000 tons, valued at $3,000,000.

April 21--Rockefeller Foundation gives out a report of its Relief Commission concerning Belgian
refugees in Holland; up to Feb. 22 cases containing 1,386,572 articles of clothing, contributed
by the neutral world, principally the United States, have been delivered in Rotterdam for the
Belgians.

April 24--Report of the American Red Cross, covering the period from Sept. 12 to April 17,
shows that supplies valued at over $1,000,000 have been sent to France, which got the largest
individual share of the shipments, and to Great Britain, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia,
Serbia, Turkey, and the Belgians; the supplies have included 600,000 pounds of absorbent cotton;
surgical gauze that if stretched in a single line would reach from the Battery, New York, to
Niagara Falls; 32,600 pounds of chloroform and ether; 65,000 yards of bandages, and 1,123 cases
of surgical instruments.

April 26--A new British committee, with many well-known Englishmen on it, has been organized
for Belgian relief, King George heading the subscription list.

April 27--American Red Cross ships a large consignment of supplies to the Russian Red Cross
at Petrograd.

The Drink Question

[From Truth, April 7, 1915.]

    Sir Topas Port, in angry sort,
      A scowl upon his forehead,
    Relieved his chest, of wrath possessed,
      In words distinctly torrid;
    His brows were raised, his eyes they blazed,
      His nose inclined to florid.

    "Disgraceful state! That we must wait
      For guns and ammunition,
    Because--Great Scott!--men play the sot
      And ruin their condition.
    Low, drunken swine! If power were mine,
      I'd teach 'em their position!

    "I'd close the pubs and workmen's clubs--
      What says that Welshman feller?
    All drink tabooed? Alike preclude
      Mile-Ender and Pall-Maller?
    Good-bye! Can't stay. I must away
      Post haste to stock my cellar."